I was so excited to see this movie when I heard that it was going to be released in 1996.  I was in the sixth grade and I loved Madonna, so anything with her in it was going to get my attention.  I had never heard of Eva Peron the person and I had certainly never heard of Evita the musical at the time I found out about the movie, but I quickly learned about Eva Peron through various documentaries about her that came out around the time the movie was released.  A&E did a documentary about her as part of their "Biography" series and I believe Lifetime did another documentary about her as part of their "Intimate Portrait" series.  I watched them both, then purchased Fraser and Navarro's biography and quickly became fascinated with the story of the dirt poor, illegitimate girl who rose to fame as an actress, married a rising colonel, became First Lady, went on to become a fanatical champion of the poor and of her husband's regime, dressed really, really well, then died tragically of cancer at 33, after which her husband had her body embalmed so it would last for eternity.  What's not to love?  The story's better than fiction.  Then I saw this movie and I was so disappointed!  I watched it again recently on DVD thinking I might have a different opinion of it and I didn't.  While the songs from the musical were great and I bought the soundtrack, I thought there was so much more to Evita's story than what could be told accurately in musical form (there are some things you just can't communicate in a song, you actually need to speak).  While I realize that the Broadway musical was performed with no dialogue, I just didn't feel that idea carried over very well onto film.  On film the whole thing came across like a really long music video starring Madonna and I found myself getting bored very quickly.  I thought that Madonna, who I love, was too old for the part (especially in the younger Evita scenes before she bleaches her hair blonde).  I thought (and still think) that instead of trying to re-create the musical as a film, they should have made a real movie (with dialogue) about Evita, like movies have been made about other historical figures.