After waiting forever and a day Ultraman has finally arrived on DVD. I remember watching it on TV when I was a kid, when they had UHF channels, when you put off homework, and maybe watched Captain Scarlet afterwards. Ahhh! Good times.

Now this a 3 DVD set containing the first 20 episodes of the first series, UNCUT which you can watch in dubbed English (for those nostalgic denizens of Earth) or in it's original Japanese version (highly recommended). Actually the Japanese versions are better because you are getting the episodes that were aired in Japan in 1966 so there are no stupid edits made for commercials when the show was in syndication in the U.S.. And the audio track is much better than the dubbed one. You may also notice that some episodes go from English to Japanese. My theory is that the scenes in question were cut for U.S. distribution and syndication and therefore never originally dubbed in English so the only thing that survived was the original Japanese so to make it complete add the scenes with the subtitles. Makes sense to me.

Now the Special Features are a little slim. You get a very amateurish video interview with Peter Fernandez, Corrine Orr and Earl Hammond that is really not that insightful. I would have liked an audio track with them doing running commentary during the episodes. You also get a Kajiu (monster) encyclopedia and the opening U.S. credits. Now it would have been nice to have the Japanese actors tracked down and interviewed for this set (maybe that might be coming on future sets) but I am not in charge of these things.

As far as the quality goes, the video is as good as your going to get at this price-point. I have seen bootlegged DVD's and they were HORRIBLE and cost 4x as much with no features at all so why complain. The audio track for the Japanese version is far superior than the dubbed one but there are some phasing anomalies in the audio which can be kind of cool and groovy but keep in mind this isn't Citizen Kane so don't expect a major restoration effort, 5.1 audio, and letterboxed. This was a TV show meant to be viewed on TV and for under $30 bucks it's a bargain I can live with. Most of us probably last so Ultraman on an old Zenith console color television set with an antenna on the roof so compared to that this is like BlueRay.

So, if your fan of the show you will not be disappointed in this purchase. Order now, the power of Ultraman compels you.

P.S. Damn that Fuji still looks good