I am a sucker for romances ill admit. If you check out the rest of the reviews that i have written the majority of them go to romance. Anyways Ai yori aoishi starts off with a girl name Aoi and a boy named Kaoru. Both of them were to become husband and wife as soon as they were old enough, but something happens and Kaoru decides to leave the hanabishi clan. Aoi has been desperately trying to find kaoru wanting to become his wife. It has been her life dream to be with the one whom was so kind to her when they were children.

Ep.1 The episode starts off with Kaoru being in college and Aoi being on a train. Aoi has the intention of becoming Kaoru's wife, but thats if he even still remembers her. When Aoi finally arrives to the train station she finds herself living a similar scenery involving her child hood with this young man. This man then decides to take Aoi where she needs to go because based on how she was dressed and how clueless she looked he didnt want her to get lost. In any case it was also on the way to his home. What a coincidence huh? I wont say anymore otherwise Im gonna spoil this episode.

Ep. 2 Aoi and Kaoru are reunited and both of them spend the night in Kaoru's room. Since Kaoru has only one futon, being the gentleman that he is he lets Aoi sleep in it. It turns out that Aoi likes to cling onto things in her sleep.....so im gonna leave it at that. In the morning Aoi starts her new life acting as Kaoru's wife, so she decides to cook, clean and do his laundry. After all that it ends with a hilarious scene.

Ep. 3 Aoi is confronted by this woman named miyabi and is forced to go back with her to Aoi's family. Since Aoi just ran away to tokyo, Kaoru did not realize that and so when he was asked to go back to the hanabishi clan he just couldnt accept it. In the end Aoi manages to escape and they both return to the place they first met. After that Kaoru comes down with a fever and Aoi ends up taking care of him. We also lean an important part in this episode. It explains why Kaoru took off from the hanabishi clan and In my opinion i would have done the same thing. Then in the end Aoi ends up leaving with her mom, BUT she only left so that she could get her supplies and be back with her beloved husband.

Ep.4 Since both Aoi and Kaoru are now living together, the Aoi family decide to move them to a bigger location. Aoi is now acting as a landlord and this is to prevent a huge scandal in the Aoi family because Aoi was supposed to be a girl for the head of the Sakuraba family. So with that in mind lets just say that miyabi changes her mind about how Kaoru is and decides to accept him in a way.

Ep.5 The last and final episode. This was an eye opener for me ill admit. It starts off so beautifully with the two couple reunited, but i guess that wasnt the case for this episode. A girl named Tina comes into Kaoru's life once again. So this alone brings many various adventures.

In the end I truely enjoyed how this series started. I am looking forward to finishing this anime in my collection and hopefully it ends like it is supposed to. I recommend this dvd to anyone who enjoys watching a couple coming together.