This overlooked film was only in theaters for a very short time, and most professional reviewers don't think that highly of it. For me, "Frequency" is my favorite movie EVER. If you're a father or a son and are not moved by the "Catching Up" scene, you've lost your heart. "Frequency" also has THE most wholesome love scene in any movie, when Frank (the father) comes home after the opening rescue scene and dances with his wife Julia in the kitchen. I've found a lot of (perhaps unintentional) depth to the movie, too - it's obviously about redemption (redeeming the past), but it's also about restoration and resolution (the son reconnecting with his long-lost father) and repentance (in the son's shouted line of desperation, "If you'd just gone the other way..."). Another reviewer said the switching back and forth between 1969 and 1999 was confusing, but I thought the movie did a good job of making this switching very clear. As the movie unfolds, watch carefully how the face of actor Jim Caviezel's character is transformed from a deeply troubled young man into one who is confident and far more fully alive - this is a brilliant acting job by Caviezel, whose subtle facial expressions change dramatically and powerfully - yet almost imperceptibly - over the course of the film. On a personal level, this movie helped me change my life, as Caviezel's shouted line "If you'd just gone the other way..." reminded me that there were things that I needed to change in my life and go "the other way" on, in order to help ensure a better future for me and my family. I've watched this movie 30-40 times and have yet to grow tired of it, and I've got the poster of the movie framed in my family den. OF COURSE none of us can change the past, but this flick is a reminder that there will come a day when every tear will be wiped away, when all accounts will be settled, when every wrong will be righted in the greatest reunion of all. Until that day, may we remember that it is stories like "Frequency" that help us stay faithful along the way. Blessings to all who read this!