Not for the faint of heart, Turtles is a semi-realistic portrayal of life in Iraq after the first Gulf War.  It could be described as a mix between The Thin Red Line and Lord of the Flies, offering both a subtle philosophic insight into the outcomes of war and a narrative built around children being forced into the role of adults.

Turtle's follows the lives of Satellite, Henvkov, and Agrin - three orphaned children in Iraq - following a war that has taken their families, and even given them new ones in Agrin's case.  Satellite fills the role of dictator to a group of displaced and orphaned children in his region.  With the onslaught of war, Satellite's leadership presents the only hope available to a troubled group of children facing scant chance of survival.  At first a money driven youth seeking whatever possessions his skills can bribe, Satellite eventually falls in love with Agrin.  This love eventually envelopes her child Pashow.  Agrin's brother Henkov is almost as resistant as Agrin is to return the benevolence of Satellite; although in Henkov's case, Satellite is more interested in prophesy than friendship.

Through the three main characters, we are given three perspectives that have developed in seemingly similar situations.  In Satellite's case, we find a man searching for the riches of the world, and when money and possessions don't satisfy his desires he begins to seek love.  Satellite still has hope that the world will satisfy his desires for love and happiness.  Henkov is a compassionate person who understands the realities of a fallen world - his insight into the world gives him a spiritual presence that magnifies itself through the gift of prophesy.  Agrin is a troubled girl who has no hope in the future or the present.  Her depression is largely the result of the first war, but she inevitably chooses sadness over the joy of new life.

The movie takes us into the landscape and culture of Iraq on the precipice of the second Iraq war.  The director gives us a rare glimpse into the realities of war and life in the Middle East.  Certainly one of the best movies of 2005 and well worth the 98 minutes!