Basic Instinct 2 is fine, campy fun. People who see this and take it too seriously simply just won't get it. This film is about the most menacing, conniving and manipulating vixen every put forth. Everyone who gets involved with her either dies or gets taken through the ringer. She uses sex as a weapon, and she's always one step ahead of everyone.

Sure, Sharon is trying a bit too hard in this film--the excessive hair-flipping is a bit much--but this is totally understandable. The first film was her best performance ever, plus it was the film that put her on the map. In the first film she had a unique, charming quality where should go from the sweetest, condescending seductress to the most evil woman around in the same sentence. Here, we find a much more hardened Catherine Tramell. Is this how Sharon's acting has evolved, or is this how Catherine has evolved as a person 14 years after the original? You be the judge. Regardless, Stone at age 47 is flat-out still hot.

The biggest flaw I see in this film--like the first film--is a less-than-sexy, whatever leading man. Sure Michael Douglas is a fine actor, but come on, they could've picked someone much sexier. The same goes for this film, Clive Owen would have been an excellent choice, or even Pierce Brosnan. David Morrissey just doesn't cut it.

I also feel shorted because--after seeing the uncut promo reel--there's been a ton of things cut out of the R-rated version. For example, in the reel Sharon is seen with yet another girlfriend hanging out with her in her stunning London flat; what happened to her? They are also shown in a threesome. So, to get the R-rating they had to cut the entire character out? This is why I long for the uncut, unrated version. The film seemed a bit short and rushed in parts, probably because 20 minutes or so were cut out.

Overall, I feel the film is fun and entertaining to the end, despite its short-comings. Sharon Stone was forced to carry the film on her own and she does a pretty good job considering, despite critics going to town on the film--they would've no matter who was in it and how good it was. It simply existed so they have to slam it; however, that's what they get for waiting 14 years to make the sequel.