I am not consciously trying to be provocative in this review.  I sincerely want to show what I thought when I saw this movie again after some 46 years!
If the French made fun of themselves -- as can the Italians --  there are many moments when this movie would be hilarious.  But the French (superficially at least) believe they have the inside track on almost everything -- even when their weakness and stupidity hits you in the face.  Jules and Jim is part of that pretense.
I first saw this movie in the early 1960s when Continental "art" movies were the rage, when Truffaut, Goddard, and Rohmer were only lauded and applauded -- an unexplained knee-jerk that continues to this day.  I saw "Jules et Jim" in my 20s and as a young man and understood it then to show how the French handled complex love situations better than others, and possessed a nation of women whose vast manipulative charms were way beyond our ken.  Shortly thereafter I went to live in Paris for five years, and saw the post-war French, or certainly the Parisians, as they really were.
Last night, forty-six years later, "Jules and Jim" had my wife and I snickering frequently: at the French penchant for thinking the most self-centered of self-indulgence to be a demonstration of intelligence and some deep 'connect' with real life; at the inability of the wimpy men in the movie to stand up to this silly [...] whose only contribution to the world was her [...]; and at a movie world where people lived lives of spoilt indulgence but with none of the obligations to earn a living, to consider the effect of one's actions on others, and to play a part in a community larger than one's self.
A writer (above) suggests rather helpfully that the movie is poetry rather than prose.  He may have something there, but I do find that many French, even to this day -- Mme Sarkozy being one -- suspect that they are actually living poetry.  The most decent, but not unflawed, character in the movie is the unlucky Gilberte who unwisely maintains her love for Jim all the while he is being manipulated by the selfish and (sorry!) not very beautiful Jeanne Moreau.  Jim, in the end, is taken from Gilberte -- and from Jules -- by a savage headstrong "I'll-show-you-who-wins" act by the "moi-moi-moi" Catherine.
I also don't understand how the movie fans who write here are not offended, or at least put off,  by the stilted way the characters often appear to read (yes read!) their dialogues at one another.  Take, for example, the scene of the three men sitting in the sloping field near a bridge.  Jim simply rattles his monologue `off the page' as if he has a train to catch.  This is not acting. It is more like a school play where the actor's lines are only partly learned but not fully digested.  It occurs frequently throughout the movie, although Oskar Werner as Jules is better and handles his role quite sensitively.  And then there is the omnipresent voice-over which has constantly to describe what is really going on, either because Truffaut thinks we are too dumb to fathom it, or because Truffaut's movie-making is too thin to convey it adequately.
But let me not be only harsh.  There were things I enjoyed about Jules and Jim.  The WWI scenes were unforgettable;  the youthful but lasting brotherly relationship between the two men was quite charming; Oskar Werner as Jules played a complex role credibly (and with a charming accent): Jeanne Moreau has a pleasant singing voice; and the countryside of northern France - almost everywhere unpopulated - was interesting; and so on.
The movie did also show how we have changed as we have grown up.  The world moves on.  Next movie, please!!