Ok,for me it does not get much better than this! My Dad took me to see this back in 1965 when it came out.Over the years I have seen it on network tv,cable tv ,and thru VHS format! I was not all that picky about how super clear a movie could be until We got a DVD player about 8 years ago!Than I was a bit picky! Last Christmas we got a 52 inch Samsung Flatscreen 1080p for the family.Bestbuy threw in a free Blueray player along with it! So now I can never go back,I am having a field day!And yes I have gotten picky! We have 3 DVD Players ,one run of the mill! One that will play anything from all regions! and than the Blueray!
That being all said, I find the Battle of the Bulge in Blue-ray is outstanding!!It comes thru very clear and crisp!It looks like it was made this year! Everything really stands out!The sound is great too as is the soundtrack!If you want something that is 100% correct with History than you better see another version(like Battleground -1949) of this story!I will say this tho, regarding the movie being real,They use 80 real and at that time active tanks and 5000 extras out of the Spanish army to stand for most of the American and German troops!Nowdays CGI is used a bit too much!A good example is TROY with Brad Pitt and Eric Bana,it was a good movie but it could have been a great movie with less CGI and more extras!
I dont let the fact that the Battle of the Bulge is not 100% correct with history bug me when it comes down to it, as this flick just looks so good,has great action and a great cast! Robert Shaw as Col.Hessler, Henry Fonda as Kiley,Robert Ryan as Gen.Grey,Dana Andrews as an officer who gets it all wrong about the coming German attack and than later is a big enought man to tell Kiley he was wrong!,Telly Savalas as Guffy, The Head of a Sherman tank crew,Charles Bronson as an officer on the very front of the lines who later fights a holding action and stands up for his men when they are pows!,James MacArthur as an officer who does a 180 in how he handles his part in the battle due to what he went thru with his Sgt Duguesne played by George Montgomery,Ty Harden plays Lt .Schumacher ,a leader of a team of Germans who had lived in the U.S.A. but came back to fight for the fatherland posing as U.S. troops,and many more!
This film has somethings in common with a good western made 3 years later called Custer of the West-- 1. They are both made with the Cinerama process and I feel a Big screen TV in conjuction with a Blue-ray Player helps one still enjoy this process up to a point!2. They have a lot of the same cast.In Custer of the West Robert Shaw has the lead role as Custer,Ty Harden is Reno and Robert Ryan plays a deserter!
Thought that was interesting to point out!Some other things that I feel were realy good on the  Battle of the Bulge were 1.In the beginning of the movie were Col Hessler is showed all the dreams and ideas some of the German high command have along with some tanks and fresh troops to still try and win the war!2. The train scene 3. The first battle were the Americans were caught way off guard!. 4. The Battle scene were a large amount of German tanks are lined up with ground troops pounding away at the town they are attacking and than moving in!5. Col Hessler showing his commanding officer an American cake and telling him that things like that getting to the troops makes them feel they can do any thing! He wants to take the town he is spending time attacking so as to brake American moral!5.The final battle,  There is a computer game called Beyond Overlord that has this battle along with many others!
This movie has a running time of 169 mins.I hear a fair amount of people sometimes knock any movie that runs pass 2 hours! I for one, like em the longer the better as long as they are well made!This movie has some good extras like The filming of the Battle of the Bulge,History Recreated and others. Its Directed by the same Director who did The Longest Day Ken Annakin.Hans Christian Blech has a good part as an aide to Col,Hessler!The movie has extra music before the start,during an intermission phase and at the conclusion!By the way, that one reviewer has it wrong about Henry Fonda not using his gun,In the first battle He is shooting a German tank crew member!!
All in all I would have to put this movie in my top ten of World War 2 movies of all time!! I would say this movie is to be very much recommended !!