I purchased this movie along with <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00005UW79">Titanic - The Complete Story</a> and it turns out those DVDs compliment each other perfectly. After reading the sterling reviews here about the accuracy of events in this film, I wanted to see how it stood the test of time. I wasn't disappointed. The dialog even matched up perfectly with some of the stories told by survivors on the A&E DVD. I also found the acting & special effects to be very good, especially since there were no big stars of the time in the film. The scene of the elderly waiter holding a baby in his arms as the ship went down was as poignant as anything in James Cameron's movie (which I think is a fine movie in its own right). I enjoyed the fact the movie concentrates on actual events and there is no fictional romance. I also really liked how the film let us get to know the actual crew and passengers, a stark contrast to Cameron's movie. The bravery of the crewmen desperately trying to operate the pumps & keep the electricity on is highlighted as well. There is character development however as a young couple who was just married is introduced in the movie meet a fate similar to Rose & Jack, but their's was even worse. In fact I can see some nods that Cameron made to this movie in his own version. Don't get me wrong, MacQuitty took a few liberties in the film (i.e. the old man holding the baby during the sinking), but nothing that hurts the movie or disrespects what happened the night the ship went down.

The "Making Of" documentary was a nice extra, though made in 1993. If I could find any flaws with this release, it would be nice if the film could be cleaned up, upgraded to Dolby 5.0 (yes, they can do that with mono soundtracks by mixing the source & adding other sounds). This is a movie deserving of Blu Ray treatment.

Update 4/2012:

Well the blu ray is here after all! I just wanted to say the picture quality is outstanding, much better than the DVD. The dirt and scratches are almost completely gone. The sound is mono still, but louder than before. No 5.1 but given the source audio that is understandable. All the extras from the DVD are here along with some additions. Very worth the money for the upgrade.