When you are anticipating something so much, sometimes you don't get the right feeling for it at first, this happens to me a lot with Blu-ray. My expectations get set a little high. At first I didn't like what I saw, opening beach scene looked gritty, perhaps the lack of light was the big culprit. Even in the water when the girl is being attacked by the shark, still dark and grainy. Who knows, maybe it was shot on a crappier camera, but it doesn't matter anywho, that was me being picky. Come the next day when Brody is summoned to the beach you see Amity Island shine with glourious color and detail! I love the feeling of watching a movie I have seen SO many times before, come alive on Blu-ray because it really seems like I'm seeing it again for the first time. This is why I buy the format. The reason why I will own 3 versions of the same film (6 if its Blade Runner). The soundtrack is one of my favorites of all time! John Williams has never sounded better, the classic Jaws theme rumbles hauntingly with the awesome DTS-HD Master Audio 7.1! Wish I had that many speakers in my house, by my soundbar will suffice, FOR NOW. The only thing that irked me about this release was that Spielberg still has not recorded a commentary track, but I can get past that. People are always calling out for a remake. I say nay! You can never replicate the "Hitchcockian" vibes that ran beautifully through the film, instead you would get a gore fest in tune with films that are being offered now like Shark Night.

It's almost difficult to fathom that this film is almost 40 years old, especially when it provides such a high quality video and audio experience! It really blew my mind! A movie that still holds its own today and will withstand the test of time, Jaws will always have a special place in my life. It both created great fascination and terrorized me at the same time! For this disc, I would go back in the water (and I hardly go in the Ocean).

5 Stars outta 5. This is an example of where Blu-ray truly delivers! It will definitely make its way into my top 5 of 2012.

~CynicNerd