Clearly, this is Clancy's most realistic book/film because it was taken from current events and merged into a fictional story. When it was written, America had just abandoned the CONTRA freedom fighters by cutting off funding. The U.S. Government left men behind in Korea and Vietnam, so the depiction of a small Special Forces (SF) team being abandoned to their own devices is possible; its already happened during time of war. The point of the book/movie is to get public outrage over this so when our men become "shadow warriors" that in return for their loss of identity that the secret government keeps faith with them and sees to it that they return home. This is the rousing conclusion at the film's end when Ryan testifies before Congress demanding more oversight over special operations.
The greatness of this film is that Jack Ryan's character IS willing to put it all on the line to rescue them in a thrilling climax. Before we get to this point, we see how a small unit of SF operators with a context of jungle cover/concealment (contrast this with McNab's Bravo Two-Zero's desert environment) can do a tremendous amount of damage with hand weapons and explosives. The need for a communications "lifeline" is paramount and how seemingly mundane places like a hotel room can be the nerve center for a field operation. The depiction of SF terminal guidance of a laser-guided munition is instructive. When the SF team is surrounded by superior numbers of inferior quality men, the result is still negative and provides a warning---reaction forces must be ready to pull men out of enemy areas and the new Air-Mech-Strike concept (See David Grange's book by the same name) offers a way to storm into such areas using tracked armored vehicles and extract the men then later on fly out by aircraft rather than trying to insert/extract them from rooftops just by vulnerable, unarmored helicopters (Blackhawk Down!).
The RPG ambush of the rubber-tired armor bodied SUVs (Somalia, 1993) when the VIP is assassinated is also instructive as wheeled vehicles simply cannot be armored to the level that a tracked vehicle can be. The need for better VIP weaponry to include smokescreens, and fire supremacy-gaining heavy machine guns to defeat the urban ambush mitigates against the denial and non-chalance complacency so common because these would seem "too war like". The issue of OPSEC is covered well when the Secretary who is seduced by the drug lord operative gives away a piece of information that results in the VIP being targeted and killed. 
The musical score of this film is rousing and a triumph, I hope its available at Amazon.com.