I'm Russian. Maybe, that is why I liked that movie. Many critics comlaining that they could not understand the movie. "English subtitles are changing very quick, and all movie based on dialogue", they wrote. Ironically, when I was showing "Solaris" on VHS to my parents, even they understanding Russian dialogue didn't understand the plot of the movie! So, I was explaining to them every scene(actually, I was making up some explonations). I wish this movie could be dubbed in English someday, so more American sci-fi fans whould enjoy this truly classic original from Russian science-fiction movie collection. In Russia we didn't have a lot of sci-fi movies, but if Russian filmakers made one, it always was very deep in meaning. To this day I love this movie, because I still do not understand some of the "mystical" parts. That's the fun of sci-fi flicks. You're wery open minded about it, but still searching for truth! "Solaris" is a good example of it. There is no fancy special effects, because in late 70's Soviet cinema was slow comparing to Hollywood. Also this movie filmed in color & b/w  (actially this is one of the movies which is the first one that introduced that wonderful "mood" technique). What made this movie special is creativity of director, Andrei Tarkovsky. The movie was edited very geniously!!! Maybe director didn't have enough budget for sertain scenes, but with his imagination every scene of the movie have a double meaning, or even three meanings. So, the viewer think that every scene meant to be like in the script. Maybe it's just the way movie was filmed to make you think that way. See! You never know! Typing about this movie, give me chills... I still remember that shocking scene close to the end... if you still didn't see that movie, I don't want to ruin it for you. Not the last scene, because the last scene it's just a homework for the viewer to think! The one scene before two last scenes. Where several surving characters have on the clothes "red" stains. Which is a hint for the viewer... The secret to understand the movie, you have to look very close to the details: in the background, the scene was filmed in color or in b/w, what are the characters wearing (in every scene), etc.) You prabably thinking, if you will pay attention to these details, how would you have a chance to read subtitles?! This movie was not meant to be with subtitles, instead it meant to be dubbed! My recommendation for you is to watch "Solaris" two times or three. First one read all the subtitles, second time watch for "all" details even very un-important ones, and three watch it again - only this time think of every scene in the 'different sense' of meaning?! Treaky? If you want to find out more about this movie, or all it "visual answers/hints" from director for the viewer and you have a hard time to find them. ....