First off let me just say that I do like this movie. In fact i remember where & when I saw it while in the movie theatre, Now if your of a certain age then you have this this memory as well.  When Logan's Run first came out in 1976 it was state of the art. and through the years that when I'd see it on cable or the SciFi channel it still looked good as well. But here now that is is 2012 and close to its 40 anniversary, Logan's Run is starting to show its age badly.  When I was originally looking for a copy of this DVD i was shocked to find out that 3 different versions of it are still available. The edition you see here before you is the latest one and its the one I recommend that you pick up as well because it has the latest in film and sound quality. If you do have the choice and most times you don"t, always go with the latest, most recent edition possible. So my quibbling isn't with the either the film or sound quality as both are top notch its the fact there's been a lot of progress in film special effects the past 30 years or so and unfortunately because of that this film is acquiring a "dated" look about it. The music & sound effects are especially amaturish when viewed in today's CGI computer graphics glasses. If you can look at this movie with all the wonder and wide eyed enthusiasm that you had all those years ago then you wont be disappointed. But if you've been watching a steady diet of the latest & greatest Sci Fi movies recently your forgiveness and tolerance for such things will be tested. This is one movie that I would love to see be remade using today's technology
FYI: And it looks like this may happen sooner rather then later. According to the website Internet Movie Data Base (IMDB), actors Ryan Gossling & Rose Bryne have been linked to this movie remake project. I just hope this new version is faithful to the original. Logan's Run is definitely a movie that deserves to be remade the right way using all the latest & greatest special effects available. After all the first one was made with this in mind and this one should be approached the same way as well. Enjoy!