One of the best gay oriented films ever.  Definitely on par with films like "Parting Glances".  Urbania is one of those films in which the central characters are gay but it's not a film about "being gay" and thus is not exclusively a "gay" film.

It's the story of a 30'ish gay man living in the Chelsea area of NYC. It's not really the traditional NYC - you won't recognize it. It's gritty and could be almost any large city anywhere.  The story involves this young man's emotional journey through a few days. The first thing we learn about him is that a romantic/love relationship he was recently involved in was terminated unexpectedly leaving him adrift emotionally.

As the film progresses, we learn more about this man and the reasons for his turbulent emotional state by seeing him making self destructive and unexpected choices in his relationships with other people.  Gradually we learn that that things are not always as they first seem and context for his seemingly strange behavior becomes more clear. During the course of the film, he interacts with a homeless man, his handsome upstairs neighbor and girlfriend, an interesting bartender, and an old friend who is now ill, as well as see flashbacks of scenes with his former lover.

The story unfolds weaving back and forth in time rather than in a straight forward fashion. This causes a couple of red-herrings in terms of how the viewer learns about Charlie's situation and mental state.  But by the end of the film, his story becomes heart breakingly clear.

A number of well known urban legends are woven into the story (hence, Urbania) and they intersect the Charlie's story at various intervals. These range from the man who loses a kidney during a one night stand, to finding a rat in a hot dog bun. When the poodle makes an appearance we know exactly where it's headed.

The director managed to beautifully capture a number of scenes with those quiet moments that tell us volumes more about the interior lives of the characters than pages of dialog can. Dan Futterman is nothing short of amazing. He manages to carry the film and make difficult emotional transitions seem natural.

Overall, this film easily captures a spot in my top ten (and it's near the top!)