...But that doesn't change the fact that he is an accomplished songwriter, gifted vocalist and the strongest member of Crowded House.  If you are a Crowded House fan, you will probably have this DVD and not glean anything from this review.  If you are curious about Crowded House, this DVD would be a splendid starting point; it represents the full span of their career very well and showcases their "legendary" live show in grand fashion.

The show gets better as it goes along, and the band settles into a groove and barrels through the rest of the night with purpose.  The highlight is in the encore sets, firstly when Tim Finn joins in, elevating the energy; as the last few songs wind down the mood gets significant and final, and the boys, especially Mr. Finn, deliver a performance of stunning emotional gravitas.  As the cameras scan the crowd it becomes obvious that the band's demise means the end of a significant era in the lives of many in Australia, New Zealand and indeed, the world.

I was a bit surprised at the sloppiness of the performance in spots; the bass player hits wrong notes several times throughout the show, the drummer's harmonies are dreadful at times and Mr. Finn spends an awful lot of time tuning between songs (there are roadies for that!), which leaves the drummer to spout alot of silly stuff (not necessarily bad).  My guess is that, as it was their last show, they were either buzzed or just in a "to heck with it all" mode.  In aither case, this is a "warts and all" release, which is commendable in this age of ultra-polished producer-driven music.  This is an organic, energetic performance, true to the band if not always to their more glossy studio releases.

A genius Neil Finn  is not.  Ray Charles, James Brown, Paul McCartney, Bob Dylan, Frank Zappa...  These are the geniuses of popular music.  Neil Finn has alot of material and trends left to create to be counted among them.  His singular sound, unique voice and prolific writing are a good start and I wish him luck (and will continue to be a fan no matter what he does) achieving that genius status that his more diehard fans like to bestow upon him.

In the meantime; buy this DVD.  It's very entertaining and a great example of real (not plastic) people making real (not plastic) music.