This 4 DVD set of films by Roscoe Arbuckle is a must for fans of silent and/or slapstick comedy.  The reason that Arbuckle's films are 'forgotten' is because of a scandal in 1921 that destroyed his career - he was accused of killing actress Virginia Rappe at a party in the St. Francis Hotel in San Francisco.  There was supposedly a lot of alcohol and this was the early days of Prohibition - that was a scandal in and of itself.  At the time Arbuckle rivaled Charlie Chaplin for the top movie comic and had moved from making short films to feature-length films.  Despite being found innocent, his career was pretty much ruined.

The first 2 DVDs are shorts from Arbuckle's career at Keystone Studios and several of the shorts are with Mabel Normand, who also had a tragic life and early death.  For Keystone films, some of these are shorts were probably their best artistically.  Many Keystone films tend to just end because they either ran out of film or ideas - Arbuckle's tend to have a better thought out plot, a rarity for many Keystone films - at least the ones that I have seen.

The 3rd DVD has shorts from the period where Arbuckle left Keystone and moved to Paramount.  This DVD includes "Coney Island" with Buster Keaton and Arbuckle's real life nephew Al St. John (he's in most of the films).  Keaton displays his physical abilities by doing a standing back flip for no apparent reason that he can do it and most likely, the viewer couldn't.  The last film on the 3rd DVD is the rediscovered film "Love", where Roscoe is in love with a farmer's daughter and poses as Lucretia Borgia, a cook recommended by one Elizabeth Borden.

The last DVD has the feature "Leap Year" (1921) which wasn't released in the US because of the scandal.  The remaining films are ones (including one sound film) that Arbuckle directed as "William Goodrich", but don't have Arbuckle in front of the camera.  These include shorts by Al St. John in the hilarious "Curses!", Lloyd Hamilton, Johnny Arthur in the great "My Stars" where he impersonates Douglas Fairbanks, Sr. and Harold Lloyd, and the acrobatic Lupino Lane (relative of Ida Lupino).