Wow, such strong feelings on this movie! First off, the animation: I think it's well-done, and whether or not it was a good directorial choice is something on which I have no opinion. It is what it is, and as far as I'm concerned, it worked well.
There are many complaints about such elements as nudity, rude jokes, Beowulf's boastfulness and "silly" chest-pounding dialogue. Some people are clearly lacking imagination as they seem unable to see beyond their 21st-century Christianized perspective. Nudity was no big deal to our heathen ancestors. Bawdiness was a large part of their humor, just as it is much of ours today. There are many bawdy jokes and riddles surviving in Old English. Human nature doesn't change that much. These elements of the movie are all perfectly accurate. This was a time and place where a king might retain a professional "fartist" in his mead-hall, who entertained the men with his skillful control of flatulence!!! Be glad the movie kept things as low-key and tame as it did!!!
Boasting was also a cultural practice that was taken very seriously, and public boasts about future accomplishments could be considered binding before the gods; failure to achieve them was shameful and required some kind of debt-payment (known as "scyld"). Beowulf's boastfulness should be seen within cultural context; it is actually highly ritualized, not simply the product of his own ego.
Someone complained of Angelina Jolie's accent that it wasn't "pre-Anglo-Saxon Old English". First, there is no such thing as "pre-Anglo-Saxon Old English"; Old English developed from the combined tongues of the Angles, Saxons, Jutes and Frisians when they invaded the British Isles. Second, as far as I know, none of us living today was around to hear what an "Old English accent" actually sounded like, if there even was such a unified thing (unlikely, given the variety of accents spoken throughout England today). Third, the poem is set in Denmark, not England. And fourth, the character is not a member of any human society, she is a sea-troll. Who knows what a sea-troll's accent sounds like?
As for the storyline - the story of Beowulf was told orally long before it was written down and concretized in one form, so the license with the story seems quite appropriate to me, and a good way of updating the themes to resonate more with the complexities of our time.
And, humor and drama CAN coexist, people. It doesn't have to be one or the other. Above all, the tale is meant to entertain.