I could tell you the plot of the movie. But after reading the many reviews already posted before me, I suggest you just read on to the others. The reason for my writing this is to tell you why this movie, in my mind's eye, stands head and shoulders above Science Fiction films w/ the exception of Ridley Scott's "Alien" and "Blade Runner". (Lest we not forget about Stanley Kubrick also.)

  Gattaca is way ahead of it's time in dealing with a ("very") possible future. It asks questions of what constitutes perfection in a society which is inherently flawed. The film portrays a future which appears sterile and, seemingly, totalitarian. Mankind's status becomes solely judged not on wealth but on one's genetic structure. Preferably, those who were chosen to be genetically altered (by the Birth Parents, no less) to be the "Perfect(ed)" individual. Those who were conceived "Naturally" with no genetic tampering to "improve the condition" of the individual are seen as weak. Thus, defining their status as the lowest form of life in Man's eyes. To be "perfect" is to be "prefect" from all the others.(Ironically, as shallow as this film seems in it's theme, it's not far off from how we perceive ourselves today. Especially in the media and entertainment.)

  This film asks the questions of how we define "perfection" in ourselves and our surroundings. Where do we draw the line in a world which draws closer to genetic manipulation. This is what makes this film original. Not just in scope, but in it's ideal themes. It questions humanity and the "human spirit".  The amazing thing of this film is the lack of special effects. The cinematography, on the other hand, is stunning and visceral. At times, it feels as if you're looking at a painting which helps realize the environment even more. What's even more fascinating is the lack of special effects. It's based more on the mood and pace of the film & characters which help this amazing film. This may not be "The Matrix". Nor was it a commercial success at the time of release. But the philosophical themes and ideals couldn't be more realized.