As others have said here (except for one dissenter) this is a marvelous series.  Those who were too young to see it when it appeared on PBS 40 years ago (was it really that long ago?), have the opportunity to see a truly educational program, unlike much of what is advertised as such these days (NOVA excluded!).

Other reviewers have covered well the content of this series, so I will add only a few comments:

-  The title Civilization is unfortunate, especially with the passage of time.  Better by far to have been called Western Civilization;  or European Civilization, as the Series is very limited in covering a) the early part of Western Civilization, namely Greece and Rome, and b) covering the latter part of Western thought with the contributions from Europeanized "colonies" in North America and elsewhere.  It no doubt prompted our lone dissenting reviewer to call it a "glorification of White Christianity".
-  The quality of the video is pretty bad, for what is advertised as a 2010 release that has been "digitally restored and remastered" according to the packaging.  This is a shame as it is the artwork that is the main star of this piece, not Lord Clark.  It is said elsewhere that the BBC shot this in 35mm, and has recently released a Blu-ray version using this source.  So the source media does exist to produce a high quality standard DVD release.  But what they released in 2010 does not in any way come up to that standard - it would not be an exaggeration to say that it not much better than VHS in quality.
-  To expand on this point, I have a high quality DVD player (standard DVD, not Blu-ray) and routinely play commercial movies that show very high quality and crisp resolution, MUCH higher in quality than this DVD does.  So it's not the player that is at fault here.

I considered returning this DVD to Amazon due to its poor quality, but because the content is so good I will probably keep it anyway.  I will deduct one star though.

In the meantime, if the BBC gets to read this PLEASE make a second re-release of this DVD (non-Blu-ray) based on the 35mm original print.  Amazon, can you also convey this to the BBC?  Thanks!