People have been giving this volume quite a bit of hate, of which I certainly don't think is deserved.  The animation is, of course, different, which is what I think warranted a lot of negative reviews.  However, the story writers, production team, and even voice actors (except save Barbara, who gets a more high-pitched feminine voice) are still the same as the other three volumes - the only thing that is changed is the animation.  And there is a reason why.

The team behind Batman: The Animated Series was also working on Superman: The Animated Series at the same time.  Not only did they have to outsource a few episodes to Japanese animation companies (The "Over the Edge" episode's animation was actually outsourced), but they wanted a smooth crossover to be possible between Superman: The Animated Series and the Batman animated series.  Since Superman's animation was much sharper, they wanted the new re-vamped batman series to match superman's animation more closely.  "Girl's Night Out" is a perfect example of the two worlds of Metropolis and Gotham coming together - this definitely would not have been possible with the old animation.

After a two-year break from the Batman animated series, they chose to return to it, with a revamped animation scheme, of which, with these items in perspective, makes sense - they had reasons for altering the animation, of which are all explained in full in this volume's wonderful director's commentaries and extras ;)  (And, to go even a step further in explaining this new animation, this new re-vamped animation also paved the way for a smooth transition with the team's "Justice League" TV series, which ran from 2001-2004.  So there you go!)

The women, in my opinion, look exceedingly better in this volume than previous ones - I like the male animation better in the old volumes (I think it gave them more character), but I digress.  There were reasons for this change which are very well-supported reasons.

My advice when first watching this volume: skip "Holiday Knights" and watch the rest of the Disc 1 FIRST.  "Holiday Knights" is exceedingly childish, and (in my opinion) was a pretty bad way of introducing this new volume to Batman-fans (but yes, yes, I know, they listed these episodes in the order they were created lol).  I often wonder if most of these bad rating happened because of frustrations with this first-episode??  So yes, skip that episode and come back to it - you'll thank me later ;)

Same great story lines, same voice actors, just a little different animation.  Batman is darker and more brooding in this series, which helps promote the need for more of Bat-girl, Robin, and Nightwing.  Tim Drake/Robin often serves as a source of genuinely funny/snarky comic relief, and certainly doesn't feel out of place in this series like I thought he would.

Overall, get this volume!  It's truly a delight, and is certainly exceedingly enjoyable to watch (especially Nightwing's fascinating story line in this scheme of things).  There are so many gems in this volume, if you don't get it, you're really missing out! (Mad Love, Nothing to Fear, and Old Wounds are just three of the greats on this volume).  So ignore the haters - get this volume! You won't be disappointed :) &lt;3