Although the attractivenes of leading actor Efron and actress Schilling will never leave you wanting, sometimes throughout the movie there are just many misses but you never cease rooting for them to conquer their demons and find love.  I think the script was just too cheesy and predictable at times and the acting and directing was not enough to compensate and carry the viewer through it without noticing, but still who doesn't want our returning soldiers to win both there and after returning home - especially U.S. Marine Sergeant Logan Thibault returning from his third tour of duty in Iraq when most of his buddies did not and has to answer the tough question of why is he the lucky one to survive.  Could it be his guardian angel pictured in the photograph he found?

Dealing with PTSD and the struggle of truly realizing he is not living in death-risking enemy territory any longer, Logan decides to walk from Colorado to Hampton, North Carolina in search of his lucky charm/angel.  Learning her name is Beth (Schilling) and where she lives, he shows up at her door, and ends up taking a job at her family-run local kennel. She has her own demons with whom she struggles: the death of her marine brother who lost her photograph, raising a son on her own from a high school pregnancy with an over-controlling baby-daddy, death of both of her parents, and trying to help her aging grandmother run the pet hotel despite her recent stroke.  Despite both Logan's and Beth's numerous trials and tribulations, they are both so kind and nice and responsible people that you just have to root for them to conquer those demons and find each other and find love.

It is all too cliche and predictable but yet so relevant and dealing with many of our country's tough problems.  I loved <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B005S9EK1S">The Lucky One (Movie only+UltraViolet) [Blu-ray</a>]. It was like working out your problems with a long slow walk in the beautiful countryside with great country to unwind and leave your troubles behind in.  When it was all too cliche and predictable, I thought "country corny!"  and I think this movie would definitely feel more at home to those living rurally or in very small towns than to us city slickers.  But, who'd have known that inside of me resides a lover of country corn?

Wouldn't it be wonderful if all our troubles end in loving embrace with Efron/Schilling?

aaaaaaaah