The story begins when the Great Splendini (Woody Allen aka Sid Waterman) performs a magic trick on Scarlett Johansson's character, Sondra Pransky (an American journalism student spending the summer with her wealthy British friend in London).  The magic trick goes awry and brings back the spirit of a recently deceased, well-known journalist (played by the great Ian McShane of Deadwood fame) with "the scoop of the century."  The thing is, he discovers the scoop, involving a serial killer (the tarot card killer), on his way to the hereafter directly from one of the killer's victims and not being able to break the story himself, manages to get messages to Sondra through the magical talents of Splendini.  It turns out that this particular victim was poisoned because she was about to blow the whistle on the killer who just happened to be the son of a British Lord.  The son is Peter Lyman, played by Hugh Jackman.  I won't say anything more about the story because I don't want to spoil it for those who haven't already seen it.  There are some interesting twists as Scarlett and Woody try to break the story as a faux father/daughter combo.

That said, I thought the casting was so good because it went against stereotypes: Hugh Jackman as a bad guy (yes, one CAN be handsome AND evil all at the same time) and Scarlett Johansson as a nerdier version of herself.  Woody was classic Woody (but you just don't mess with that).  I felt that this film showed Woody evolving.  Perhaps some people were disappointed because they are accustomed to Woody a certain way - the old way - when Diane Keaton was a regular in his films.  But you have to give the guy credit for stepping out of the box and asking his actors to do the same.  I think some people might have been disappointed too with Scarlett in a not so glamorous role but I found that I liked her better because of it.  People get too comfortable with directors/actors/writers doing similar projects over and over that they end up feeling let down if the director/actor/writer does something new or different.  Change is good though.

This is a perfect movie to see if you feel like laughing until you hurt.  When I saw it in the theatre, the noise level (laughing) got so loud that it was, at times, difficult to hear some of the dialogue.  Every so often, you need a film that is just plain entertaining and fun - even over the top as this one is at times.  Recommend.