Okay, having read other reviews, I'm wondering at the relative IQ level or at least how slow to pickup and follow plot twists.  The plot was easy to follow for me, I understood the whole misdirection thing and was even surprised once or twice when "I didn't see that coming" was appropriate.

Yes, they gave Hugh Jackman's hacker character WAY too much luck/skill; i.e. a 60 sec hack into a high level government system with NO prep, NO plan and what amounts to a PC DOESN'T happen, gun-to-his-head or no.  Even hackers with photographic memories keep notes and need time.  The addition of CRAY servers or multiple Dell systems would help process faster, but wouldn't make Hugh Jackman any more powerful, just faster (surface level).  The addition of Stanley's daughter being used as incentive for him to do his deed was alright to add some depth; personally, I'd like to have seen his loss of an ex-wife get used as such, then, right before he breaks the code, she gets killed (an interesting twist and no loss to the gene pool).

Halle Barry's nude scene was definitely (as defined by the dictionary) gratuitous, but it didn't offend me as a fan.  Like, I wasn't thinking "AW COME ON, THEY DID THAT FOR THE RATINGS ONLY!".  It was a flash of what the fans wanted to see and didn't instantly turn the character or the actress into a whore.

John Travolta's character was (and I'm no expert here) a fresh concept, and well played by the actor.  An anti-terrorist willing to sacrifice lives for the greater good isn't something that jumps out at me as "been there, done that".  The movie ended with news clips of international terrorists being killed off by Gabriel (or whatever his name turned out to be).  I'd like something like THAT to happen in reality: a non-governmental agency killing off enemies of the U.S. (or anyone, as terrorists are slugs) without causing an international incident or anti-U.S. sentiment.

But that's an opinion ... actually this whole thing is an opinion. So take it for what it's worth, but watch/rent the movie once and form your own, buy if you liked it.  [...]