Fruits Basket is one of my favorite anime series, rivaled only by Full Metal Alchemist and Trigun - though it shares little in common with those titles aside from quality. While Fruits Basket is technically  Shojo, as President of my University's Anime Club I can provide testament to it's broad appeal even to Shonen fans. It offers a wonderful mix of comedy, drama, and even action.

I could ramble on about it's merits but I'm guessing that, like me, what you really want to know is how this Collector's Edition ranks against earlier releases of Fruits Basket. The answer, in my opinion, is that this Collector's Edition is surprisingly better save for one annoyance.

o--Presentation--o
In my opinion, the box art and DVD menus are far superior to previous releases of Fruits Basket. There's a lot more original artwork here, particularly decorating the interior of the cases, and it's clear that a lot of effort was put into making this Collector's Edition stand out aesthetically.

o--Content--o
The core footage has been remastered and unless I'm mistaken some additional subtitles have been tossed in to explain Japanese text, but honestly I didn't notice many differences between this release and previous releases. Where this release really shines is the additional content, which is why it's more geared towards "hardcore" fans rather than casual fans. To break it down by content...

o-Episode 26 Video Commentary: Found on Disc 4, the English Voice Actors for Yuki, Tohru, Kyo, and Shigure provide commentary on Episode 26 of Fruits Basket. This was recorded nine years after the English dub was finished and it's very American - reminds me of a morning radio show, none of them quite know what the say at first but eventually it gets more interesting. Overall though, I have to say that I was a bit disappointed.

o-Trailers: Disc 4 comes with trailers for a lot of other Funimation anime. At least these trailers are optional...though the only one that really caught my eye was Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood.

o-Textless Opening & Closing Songs: Not much to say on this, it's the opening and closing without text. Vocals are available in both English and Japanese.

o-Fruits Basket Rooms 1-3 (Japanese with subtitles): The Japanese Voice Actor for Tohru interviews the Japanese Voice Actors for Yuki, Kyo, and Shigure. I always enjoy the surprise of seeing what Voice Actors really look like and the interviews were fun but interesting. I thought this feature was the highlight of the additional content and I wish that the English cast had done something similar.

o-Behind the Scenes Featurette (Japanese with subtitles): This featurette is scattered but has some interesting information. Honestly, I found it rather boring and didn't finish watching it. I may go back but I already knew a lot of what it was sharing - a danger of being too much of an Otaku, I suppose.

o-Akitaroh Dachi Interview (Japanese with subtitles): This interview with the director of Fruits Basket took place before the American release of the series and I thought it was fairly interesting - though, not really a highlight of the disc. There are some interesting points, like the question of a second season of the anime since the manga was still being released at the time.

o-Eyecatch Galleries (Japanese with subtitles): This is a slideshow of the "ka-ching" wipes used throughout the series, narrated by the Japanese voice actor for Tohru. I thought it was pretty interesting but then the "ka-ching" wipes always catch my eye while watching the series and it was nice to watch them more slowly with some explanation of the details involved. For instance, who that giraffe represents.

o-English Cast Interview: This mass interview is interesting and fun, but a little overwhelming, it might have been more in-depth one on one. I also wish that it had video - I really enjoy the surprise of seeing what Voice Actors look like.

o-Illustration Gallery (Japanese with subtitles): A small selection of Fruits Basket pictures in slideshow format.

o-Outtakes: This is a short series of outtakes from the English dub, it doesn't last very long and it seemed to focus on the early series. There's no video to go along with it and it all gets a little jumbled together, which cuts back on it's humor in my opinion...but it's still amusing.

o-Outtakes, English Closing Theme & English Auditions: These were fun but again, like the Outtakes, there's no video and it's all jumbled together. There's not a lot of content and the English Closing Theme is woven throughout.

o--Annoyance--o
My only complaint with the Collector's Edition is that Funimation decided to include unskipable commercials at the beginning of discs 2, 3, and 4. I know this is just an inconvenience but it still really pisses me off - if the commercials were skipable this would be a minor complaint, probably not even worth mentioning, but the fact that Funimation forces customers who purchased their product to watch commercials before viewing said product really annoys me. I'm planning to send an irate letter their way.

o--Bottom-Line--o
If you're a casual watcher this Collector's Edition doesn't offer that different of a viewing experience aside from the remastered footage - so go with what's cheapest. If you are a Fruits Basket fan, than this is the definitive edition packed with tons of extra content to help you get your Otaku on. I would rate the Collector's Edition Five Stars if not for the unskipable commercials at the start of discs 2, 3, and 4.