You can tell by the cover art alone that it was filmed in 3D. It's too bad that if you were not able to see it originally in the theaters in 1982, then you'll probably never see the 3D version. I am among the unlucky in this respect.
At least Part 3 tries to be a little better than the previous two. In this one, they've tried a little character development as apposed to the previous installments in which they just lined up horney teenagers to be killed off. On the sake of sounding like I'm trying to draw much more out of the film than there actually was, I'll say that it seemed that they managed to bring in characters that showed the wide scope of humanity: There's an aspiring actor with incredibly low self esteem, an attack victim, pot users, and a misfit biker gang.
Incidentally, even though they tried character development, no matter how diverse the characters, I never said that I thought they succeeded. 
The uses of the 3D effects throughout the movie are sporadic, and if you don't pay attention, you'll miss one. Of course, the underlying fact is that it IS a slasher film and, eventually, it starts acting like one. It seems that after all of the fun--and as the movie picks up its momentum--the 3D effects seem to be disregarded. I think the last effect is the eye popping out at the camera trick right before the traditional "girl discovering all of the dead bodies" routine. Aside from that, I'd have to agree with some that it seems that entire scenes were created and set up just to have a 3D effect in it. The Yo-Yo scene is a good example.
Is it me or is the heroine during the chase sequence act a little too melodramatic? For example, when she attacks Jason with the ax and he stops for a moment then continues to peruse her, she starts walking backwards, shaking her head and screaming, "NO! NO! NO! NO! NO!" over and over with a crazed look in her eye. Like the director deliberately gave her too much coffee before the shoot. 
Then of course there's the dream sequence that makes you think, "been there and done that". Afterwards she's seen being walked out of one of the cabins by a police officer and escorted into the back of the squad car. I guess she had too much coffee before that scene too, as this is where she starts throwing a fit in the back of vehicle. That makes ME think, "All right, THAT'S never happened in a Friday the 13th movie before . . ."
Overall, with the 3D effects scenes aside, I think that this is one of the better F13 films that were produced.