Okay . . . when I was a kid, I loved this movie.  Then, completely by accident, I chanced upon the 'Destroyer' series of action novels (Think 'Mack Bolan, the Executioner', only written by smart people) and I came to love this movie so much more.  Nowadays, when superpowerful martial artists are uncommonly common in the cinema, this movie may seem like old news.  But consider this: since the 1960's the characters and situations adapted for this flick have inspired more ripoffs than anything else EVER, and when this movie was made, these ideas were still fresh.  The Destroyer novels have concepts that have later been seen in 'Terminator',  'Matrix', Japanimation, 'Karate Kid', and many spy flicks, just to name a few.  The movie takes major liberties with the basics of Remo's origins, but the essential characters and situations remain unaltered, especially the dysfunctional father-son dynamic between Remo and his mentor, the gifted but insensitive and arrogant Chiun, masterfully portrayed by dancer Joel Grey.
If this movie had been made today, the special effects would finally have caught up with the ideas and storyline.  As it is, they do the best they can with the limited techniques, budget, and imagination of action movies of the time.
Bottom line: this movie has heart.  You can't help but love Remo, and especially Chiun, as they bicker their way thru events that could shatter the nation (and by extension, the world).  The action could be better by today's standards, but the faithfulness to a pop cultural icon must be applauded.  This film is funny, frisky, and just plain entertaining from start to finish.
Oh, and just to cover some questions raised by other reviews: even if you have an all-powerful septuagenarian, Korean killer on your hands, if you want an effective SECRET agant, you'd need an 'Everyman'.  You know, a guy who can blend in to a crowd (don't think I'm sexist by saying 'guy'.  Sinanju is sexist by only training men.  In the film, Chiun suggests that "Women should stay home and make babies.  Preferably manchild.")  Remo is that Everyman, and so much more.  Check this one out.  The DVD itself could be better, but considering how old this flick is, it's understood that there would be a limit to what could be put together for it.  The film's a B+, the DVD is a C, but only because this is a film from the decline of cinema, before CGI and a burgeoning home video market revitalized the action genre.
FLAWS: they don't kill enough.  I'm not one for gratuitous violence, but this is a film about an ancient society of superpowerful assassins, and you'd expect more deaths.  In fact, there are scenes depicting what are OBVIOUSLY deaths that then have extraneous footage afterwards to show that no one has died (Watch the scene on the industrial elevator, Statue of Liberty footage, and tell me if that guy was HUNG, or just hung UP).
WATCH THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!