If you like the history of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert you will really enjoy this little known movie, "Mrs. Brown" with Judy Dench and Billy Connolly.  I ordered "Young Victoria" with Emily Blunt and Rupert Friend at the same time to learn about the early years of the love story between Victoria and Albert.  Although very different in the format of the filming and age of the characters, it was really worth watching both to understand the history, although I am sure quite a bit of dramatic liberty was taken, of this romance.
Judy Dench true to her genius acting ability was fabulous as the Queen.  She never fails to give a truly brilliant performance as Victoria in her older years.  Very believable in her grieving of the death of her beloved Albert.  No one in court had been able to get her out of her deep depression and inconsolable grief.  This is where John Brown, played so well by Billy Connolly, one of Albert's oldest and dearest friends from Scotland, was summoned to come and see if he was able to assist the Queen in getting on with her life.
John Brown was dedicated to the Queen, and only the Queen, much the the members of her family and the members of the court.  His non-conventional ways rubbed many the wrong way, but after what seemed to be a long time, he was able to persuade Queen Victoria to start living again.
He showed her the joys of riding her pony in the moors, meeting with the common people of her country, laughing, dancing, and just loving again.  There were rumors of a love affair between them, but never proved in the movie.
If you like Judy Dench, I would highly recommend this movie as she will not disappoint.  Billy Connolly, an unknown to me, has become a favorite.  He is a loveable character with the strength needed to breathe life into a Queen lost in her seemingly unending grief.  I also highly recommend getting "Young Victoria" at the same time as it is the beginning of this story.  It is beautifully filmed, beautiful costuming, and helps you to understand the beginning of this endearing live story.