I was absolutely ecstatic to finally get a copy of McLINTOCK in a collector's edition and in fully restored, widescreen format.  This is a movie that just cannot be appropriately viewed in full screen. Be sure to get this authorized version as previous DVD versions suffered in presentation format and quality.

And McLINTOCK is a John Wayne classic, one that absolutely belongs in any comprehensive Western collection.  Some of Wayne's greatest lines and scenes are here.  But, hey, why limit it to Wayne?  McLINTOCK has arguably some of the best Western moments to be found anywhere in the genre.

The movie is hailed as a comedy but don't get the wrong impression.  No, this isn't BLAZING SADDLES or RUSTLER'S RHAPSODY.  There are lighter moments, yes, like the clay slide fight and Maureen O'Hara's romp down main street in nothing but her bloomers.  But then there is also John Wayne's touching scene with Stephanie Powers, who plays his daughter Becky, when he explains to her his take on life.  There's also the scene where Wayne speaks for a group of captured and imprisoned Comanche chiefs.  His words are as applicable today as they were when the movie was made or, more to the point, in the context of period in which this movie is set.

And a classic Western deserves nothing short of a classic cast. In that regard McLINTOCK comes through in spades.  In addition to Wayne as the irrepressible George Washington McLintock, Maureen O'Hara is perfect as Kathryn McLintock, McLintock's estranged wife.  Stephanie Powers is wonderful as McLintock's daughter Becky while Wayne's real-life son, Patrick, stars as Powers' love interest, Devlin Warren. Add to that group Hank Worden, Chill Wills, and Yvonne DeCarlo and your in for Western entertainment at its finest.

The only drawback with this DVD (and certainly not sufficient to tarnish the film itself or my rating of 5 stars) was a Special Features interview with Maureen O'Hara.  I was totally shocked at the arrogance displayed by Ms. O'Hara in discussing her abilities as an actress.  While she remains Wayne's very finest leading lady, I was stunned at her lack of class in the interviews.

THE HORSEMAN