I'm one who misses the grandeur of traditional cel animation.  However there's something to be said about a cartoon that (unlike most past releases) doesn't really try so hard to push a moral lesson into you.  "Madagascar" is one such film.  I can't remember the last animated feature film that was made just for pure entertainment.  Sure, you can say it's about how friendship conquers all, etc. etc. but when it comes right down to it, "Madagascar" is just all about fun.  And yeah, for the lack of finding more proper words, it's just plain cute.  The film is about a bunch of animals who have grown up in a simple New York zoo.  One animal, Marty the Zebra (voiced by Chris Rock) longs for the chance to run around in the wide open wild.  His three friends, Alex the Lion (Ben Stiller), Melman the Giraffe (David Schwimmer), and Gloria the Hippo (Jada Pinkett-Smith), try to make him realize that he's living a good life in the zoo where they are, this reviewer notes, excessively pampered extravagantly.

A bunch of penguins successfully break out of the zoo in the hopes of reaching Antartica.  This prompts the zebra to realize that he could visit his wild roots and he breaks out of the zoo.  His three friends break out as well in the hopes of returning him to the zoo, but this is seen by us simple-minded humans as a sign that the animals desire to return to their natural habitat.

One mishap leads to another in the process of their return to the wild and they end up in a mysterious island where they meet a tribe of party-happy lemurs led by Julian (Sacha Baron Cohen) who, with his aides Maurice (Cedric the Entertainer) and Mort (Andy Richter), reveal that their tribe is under threat by the carnivorous feline Fousa.

Cohen steals the show from the entire cast whenever his character, King Julian, is on screen.  He even overshadows such intimidating personalities as Cedric the Entertainer, who just feels lackluster or out of place in this film.  Disappointing is Andy Richter as the Gizmo-lookalike Mort.  I'm a fan of Richter since the Conan O'Brien show, and I know he's capable of better roles than this.  Mort sure is cute though.  :)

Nevertheless, the film was animated with as much care as any recently put out CGI film.  And the cast seems to have had a genuine ball with their roles.  This shows onscreen and what we have is a purely entertaining romp of family fun.