Having watched a lot of war movies with family members in the past, there are very few, -- maybe only one or two, that I will willingly re-watch. This is one of them. It is interesting on so many levels, the subject of the morality of war, choices that have to be made in difficult circumstances, etc., and especially about cultural differences which may lead to different problems (and solutions -- "right" or "wrong").

This is a very exciting movie, though not very much in the "blood and guts" sort of way, (although there is a battle scene, it is not the main focus). This is more about the dilemmas of the people behind the scenes who have to make the choices that cost lives.

In this regard, the main theme seems to be the difference of the Greek mind-set and that of the "Anglo-Saxon" British. Keith Mallory (Peck) is re-united with his former mountain-climbing partner (Anthony Quinn), to go on a sabotage mission. The mission is to knock out two enormous, state-of-the-art, radar controlled cannons that will sink any Allied ships trying to get past them. The lives of some two thousand Allied troops are hanging in the balance, depending on the success of the mission. Their only escape route is right past those cannons. But first they have to get the team into the area by the only way possible, up a nightmare rock wall, and in a raging storm no less. Mallory's part is supposed to end with getting the team up the cliff.

It turns out that Mallory's former partner, a Greek who is now leading the resistance in Crete, has sworn to kill him when the war is over because (as he expresses it), Mallory's "Anglo-Saxon decency" had gotten his wife and children killed the year before when he had given some wounded Nazi's safe passage.

The theme begins to develop and the tension to mount when the problem arises as to what to do when the mission commander breaks his leg on the way up the cliff and Mallory finds himself in charge. The British mission commander, not wanting to jeopardize the mission because he is one who knows the entire plan, and facing gangrene in his leg, wants to kill himself, but Mallory stops him. His ex-partner says, "You know the man was finished when he broke his leg." Mallory, however, refuses to allow this and says we will bring him along and abandon him only if forced to, "crossing that bridge when we get to it." This decision makes for a very interesting twist in the plot later on.

There is also tension between Mallory and the lower-ranking British explosives expert (excellently played by David Niven), who has stubbornly refused to accept the responsibilities of an officer, turning down promotion several times, as he tries to "stick it to" Mallory, which also plays well into the theme.

This main theme is  further explored when the situation arises as to what to do with the psychopath in their midst whose actions threaten the mission. There are two British men, a Greek man and a Greek woman involved in the debate; and the contrast is very interesting as the seconds tick away and the decision must be made.... (Remember, it was the Greeks, not the Anglo-Saxons, who wrote Medea.)