The title 'Darwin's Nightmare' may refer to the infestation of Giant Nile Perch destroying the ecosystem of Lake Victoria, but I suspect it has more to do with how the concept of 'survival of the fittest' is applied to human beings in one of the most awful places on Earth. Children fight over grimy handfuls of rice, with the strongest getting the most, and the gentler weeping over what they have lost (and then starving). These orphans of HIV and other diseases struggle alongside the heavily scarred adults who have somehow survived, prostitution for the women, dangerous, desperate work for the men, and  all of them living off the rotting corpses of fish left after the juicy filets have been air transported to European tables (this is a truly horrendous thing, people stacking and handling worm infested fish frames).Tanzania's problems did not begin with this trade of fish that transformed a fishing/agrarian lifestyle into a feeder industry for fish factories, but the film certainly implies that it did make them worse. Director Sauper has captured the despair of the Tanzanian people, the viciousness of those among them who feed off their pain, and the callousness (or sheer ignorance) of those who profit from it. Yet he also finds grace: A Russian pilot wishing forlornly that he could help all children, and not knowing how, a Tanzanian fishing village leader wearily describing the obvious causes of his people's plight, children rendering down packaging plastic to sniff so they can escape their pathetic lives for a little while.

This sounds like something no one would want to watch, and it certainly would make your average complacent westerner squirm with every remembered whine about the difficulties of their own pampered lives. But Sauper has this STYLE, poetic in presentation, his narrative looping back onto itself to repeat themes again. There are no blunt hammers over the head here. He shows the people and who they are. I suspect Sauper is very brave. He gets into situations that are dicey getting his interviews. And his rapport with people is nuanced, pulling real and thoughtful comments from many of them, even the ones not so nice. Thankfully, he lets us decide who those are. There is little preaching here.

Highly recommended for any teacher trying to show their students a little of what life is like in other parts of the world, and for any one with a heart and a mind.