I watched Saving Private Ryan once.  Not only did I fail to see what all the fuss was about, I thought it was pretty dumb and, at times, insulting.  Yes, the battle scenes were well done.  But every time one of the characters spoke, it sounded bogus and false.  Tom Hanks at the end, muttering, "Earn ... this ..."  Please.

In contrast, "Hell is for Heroes" does not contain one false moment.  Every line of dialogue seems real.  Every scene - even the comic ones - resonates.  I've watched "Hell is For Heroes" about a dozen times and will likely watch it a dozen more.  Don Siegel didn't have Spielberg's budget, but the writing and acting in "Hell is For Heroes" are far superior.

In "Private Ryan", there's a bit of a ruse being played.  Spielberg made the action scenes so "real" and so gruesome and so violent.  This was done, ostensibly, to impress the audience with the "authenticity" of war.  But the gore covered what was essentially a weak storyline and inauthentic dialogue.  It's a way of cheating the audience.  Ben Stiller exposed this technique and justly ridiculed it in "Tropic Thunder", an infinitely more honest film than "Private Ryan."

Siegel didn't have the money for the big theatrics, the blockbuster opening scene.  Instead, the film begins with Steve McQueen reporting for duty.  And within a couple of minutes and only a couple of lines of dialogue, McQueen shows us what John Reese is about.  He has to.  Because we don't have the special effects, the actors and the writing need to carry the film.  Which is as it should be.

Take just a couple of scenes: Fess Parker's Sgt. Pike talking with McQueen's Private Reese:

Reese: What about Larkin?
Pike:  Knows how to take orders, how to give em'.  He's a good man.
Reese: He better be.

That's just a hundred times more realistic than "earn this."

Or McQueen saying to James Coburn's character, "And you?"

Or McQueen saying to Nick Adams's Homer, "You got no business on the front line.  Them heinies catch you and start pulling out your toenails, you'll spill everything you know."

This is how men in a situation like that would talk.  Can we depend on the man in charge?  Does he know what he's doing?  Will we survive the night?  There's no time for maudlin speeches about getting home to the wife.

Everyone's good in the film.  Coburn, Harry Guardino, Parker, Adams, Bob Newhart ... they all turn in top performances.  But it's McQueen's film.

A word about McQueen.  It's become obvious over the years that he was a very underrated actor.  Because of his good looks and his superstar status, he was never really given his proper due during his lifetime.  But no one can watch this film and say he wasn't great at his craft.  This is the second best performance of his career.  ("Junior Bonner" was his best.)  Look at what he does with motion.  The way he holds his cigarette or that bottle of brandy.  The intensity, the mood conveyed.  The way he tends to his guns, his ammo, his butcher knife.  There is no need for another character to tell us he's burned out and doomed or perhaps even psychotic.  We see it.  McQueen himself shows us.  Consider the best actors of that time: Brando, Montgomery Clift, or - had he been alive - James Dean.  Could they have done any better in that role?  I doubt it.

James Patrick Hunt
author - "Maitland's Reply", "Bridger", "The Assailant"