Tis true, this movie is neither for those in search of a light diversion, nor is it inspiring, nor intriguing to those who do not find human nature so.  Nor is it exciting in other than a mesmerizing, ironically comical manner.  If you seek in a movie any of those qualities, this will not be your cup of tea.  Don't beat yourself up.  Social satire, like revenge, is a dish best served cold.  In other words, should you desire to sample this fare, go into it with a clear head and your eyes open.

On the other hand, there may be those among us who might find it fascinating to watch, undetected, as four people with the best of intentions behave outrageously.  If so, this is your wicked, dark cup of espresso.  How can four parents, so determined to arrive at a consensual conclusion to a touchy matter of offspring misbehavior, leap so badly off track in a matter of minutes?  Simply confine them in a room, and allow them to be their most earnest, self absorbed, selves.  They are as above-average in their own estimation as any human being.  They (parents of "perpetrator") are "...very touched by how generous you're being.  We realize how you're trying to smooth things over."  (Parents of "victim":) "Please...it's the least we can do....(a few seconds later)...But he realizes he disfigured his schoolmate?"  With regards to the boy's tooth, "...apparently the nerve is not completely exposed...part of it is exposed..."  Ah.  Yes, that seems to be the problem.

"We're born alone, and we die alone, that's it."  Still, it can't hurt to sample a bit of top drawer single malt, can it?

And there you have it.  Escalation ensues.  Nerves pertaining to parenting styles, culture, global values, marriage, child rearing, the treatment of a hamster, etc, etc, become completely exposed.  Scream, sob, rant, pummel, throw things, toss your cobbler if you must, but do not--I repeat, DO NOT--leave!

Perhaps because it lacked the lightheartedness of many a farce,  the plot felt a bit contrived due to chronic incorrigibility and the "not leaving".  (It was a completely dysfunctional "Minnesota Goodbye".  Google it if you must.) Despite that, one of the more enjoyable aspects was the fun the actors seemed to be having underneath it all.  This was the most evident in Reilley and Waltz.  Winslet was very subtle with it, but Foster was a bit strained and intense for it to be quite as deliciously evil.  Maybe a bit more ebb and flow would have evened it out a bit in her case.  That said, all the portrayals were quite excellent in rising to the task of carrying the play to film.  It is simply well acted and directed.

"Look, we're all decent people, all four of us.  I don't know how we got so carried away losing our tempers.  It's totally unnecessary!"

"Stop it, Michael!  Stop...mediating!"

We may find ourselves guffawing, horrified, wanting to slap the participants, unconsciously egging them on, or all the above.  It was a squirm worthy ride, at once uncomfortable and frustratingly familiar.  Just who is it we recognize?  Possibly others, but certainly not ourselves, is it?