As the title says, do not watch this in the English dub because it ruins the film.

Moving on from that point, it is lovely to see a young woman who can not only rival well-known male martial artists, but also mimic Bruce Lee to perfection. If you have seen any of the behind the scenes footage, the majority of the stunt work was done by Yanin "Jeeja" Vismistananda herself, with no stunt doubles. That also means that a lot of the cuts and bruises you see during this film, are actual cuts and bruises.

Not everyone is as hip for the character development as I am. Maybe it's because I have worked with autistic children, so I am attached to Zen's character because of that. It is 100% possible for an autistic child to learn through observation, so the realistic nature of that works for me. I liked the "emotional" progression of Zen, where at first she is just mimicking, and is slightly obsessed with getting this one thing just because she knows she needs to get it, and has a limited understanding of how to solve conflicts. As time goes on, it becomes more personal to her, and she evolves from mimicking to protecting the people closest to her. She also have a lovely vulnerability about her outside of the fights. One of my favorite scenes is when Zen realizes her mother has lost her hair, and becomes frightened because she doesn't recognize her. In an attempt to be like her mother, she ragefully cuts off most of her hair. I like the way the film steps away from the action, and reminds viewers that there is more there than just cool looking fight scenes.

Sure, it's an action film. The fight scenes are fantastic and beautifully choreographed. The story-line to me is just amazing. Zen starts off as a child who becomes heavily interested in the Muay Thai boxing school next door, and begins practicing their moves after watching them. As she gets older, she learns more fighting skills from TV, movies, etc. Eventually, Zen and her brother, Moom, start trying to collect money to pay for their mother's hospital bills. Once they find her journal containing the names of people who owe her money, without questioning why their mother even has this book, they start visiting these people and asking for the cash. The first individual they visit, picks on Zen to the point of hitting her, which pushes her to use her new-found skills for the first time. I won't go too much into detail, but the deeper they go into the world attributed to this journal, they find more secrets about their mother, Zen's father Masashi, and No. 8, the leader of a rival gang.

Also, the final part of this film is very action packed and creative, but also very emotionally gripping, and worth watching the whole film to see.