Hello Friends,

Now, As of this month we have been through 10 years after November 9, 1997 or infamous Montreal Screw Job.

Try to find this product whether on VHS / DVD or whatever form. Why?

Because :

1. You will see that pro wrestling is real in many shapes and forms. Yes, it is predetermined, the moves maybe fabricated, but it truly does take a real toll on the wrestlers bodies.

2. You will see what really happens backstage without sugar coating.

3. You will see how the politics in wrestling play a major role in the outcome of the matches.

4. You can tell that bussiness is in the dumps today because of some of the desions that Vince McMahon has made on November 9, 1997 and beyond.

5. History can easlily be repeated if the current or future roster of talent is not careful.

6. What you hear or see on TV may not really be the truth. IMHO opinion, Vince can do better without both HHH & Shawn Michaels.

Folks, the documetary is truly a keeper, I have watched several times.
I understand that Vince has the right to protect his bussiness, but he could have made a different action then Screwing Bret in his home town.

How?

Well, Vince was scared that Bret would take the belt to WCW (like when Alundra Blaze threw the WWF championship belt in the garbage can on TV). But, I mean come on. They could have easily like agreed bewteen Vince and Bret that the match would end with an interfernece at the end of the champsionship bout. Then Vince would take the belt from Bret before leaving the building.

The next night on Raw Vince would approach the fans on RAW, and play a pre-tapped interview where Bret decides to let go of the belt for any given reason. Bret then goes to WCW (as agreed between him & Vince).

But to see what Vince has done, he made it clear that no one is safe, and that he is truly selfish and truly unprofessional.

I have for years enjoyed watching WWF/WWE, but after that dark day, I have lost interest. Why?

Because:

1. Lack of competion betwen wrestling organizations (No more WCW). Eating McDonalds can be cool, but eating it 3 times a week will make you sick.

2. The roster in the WWE lacks the same charisma that we saw in the 80's & 90's.

3. The storylines are boring and repetive.

4. The shows rely now mostly on Divas, immorale angles and has lost the faamily values (knowing the fact that merchandise is running wild because of the children).

5. Pushing related stars & and allowing them to be bookers (HHH), and burrying legends (Ric Flair).

6. WWE could have dones something to minimize the huge number of deaths in pro wrestling. By at least minimizing the tour days, or at least helping create a retirment fund where an amount is deducted from their salalry on monthly basis, or having them contribute one way or another in the wrestling bussiness. Or at least being more strict on the drug testing.

In the end, I hope you do enjoy the documentary, I & many friends of mine did. And the bottom line is, if you enjoy or enjoyed wrestling. And if you were or still is a Bret Hart fan, this documentary is for you !

While you are at it, grab Bret Hart's autobiography, I truly enjoyed reading it.

All the best,
Nawaf