From my title...you can tell i love this movie. I like a lot of psychological thrillers/horrors. Same with comedys...anyway.

This movie redefines  psychological thriller. It makes you think. Leonard is a man with a short term memory disorder. Not to bad right? So what? He can still live. He remembers things from  before the "accident". Right? Well....not really. Since he has short term memory he can't remember things for at least 5 mins. before he forgets what just happened. Without giving to much of this great and sometimes confusing story, i will now tell some of it. Because of his condition he can't remember things *you know this already....* but he now wants to find his wifes killer. When the "accident" happened. His wife was killed in the accident that made him get short term memory. He now is seeking vengence. To remember things he  stays organized and keeps notes. He even had some of them on hid bodhy, as tattos.  He is seeking a guy named John G., his friend Teddy is helping him find her. Along the way Leonard runs into a woman, Natalie, who helps him out of pity. What is most amazing about this story is 1) the way it is presented, they start from the end and work to the begginging. No movie has done that before, and this movie has done it very well. 2) All the ways people translate what happens, many people translate the endding *or should i say...begginging* differently, which makes this movie a very interesting discussion. It drives deep into the human pshyic, and shows  us things we simply cannot accept.  An amazing movie, with some of the best acting I have ever seen. You have not lived, or seen a good movie till you see this. What i think is sad is that Guy Preace was never recognized for this performace. Because it is so well done. I'm about one of the only people in  my town *very big town....*...or in my state probably that has ever even seen or heard of this wonderful movie. You must go out and buy this movie now, if you don't you will truly be sorry you didn't. It gives you a wonderful experience that you've never seen before. Give this  not very well known movie a chance, you will not be dissappointed