Like the review I just read, Tarkovskies' ANDRE RUBLEV is the movie that I keep coming back to over the years. It is my favorite film and has been until something as special comes along.

More than any filmmaker in any country, in any language, this movie has imparted and impressed it's viewpoint into my perception. I have incorporated it into my vision. I resonate with it... It plays me like a bell.

It is not an entertainment really though much of it is entertaining.  This film transcends both entertainment and mere artistic success -  the images and themes are so spiritually charged and archetypically strong that one may have the sense while watching it, that he or she is remembering half forgotten dreams.

Like the person whose review I just read, I often pause in simple wonder after a chapter just to let it ring.

The film chronicles the life and spiritual development of Russian artist, Icon painter

Andre Rublev.  The epic unfolds in 6 chapters the last of which introduces another artist, a young Church bell maker. The chapter reveals aspects and components of the creative process both literally and in allegory ...one senses that the filmmaker Tarkovsy and the young bell-maker may have a great deal in common and that he may have written himself into this section....this last chapter "Spring" is shot through with a narrative vitality, an energetic quality to the expression that is simply colossal -  there is a joy in the unfolding and discovery of this bell-makers  own creative powers...all of which is witnessed by the aging jaded Andre Rublev who is, as a witness, transformed by what he sees, as will be anyone who has eyes to see and apprehend the naked wonder of this last chapter.

Andre Tarkovsky made this film in what used to be the USSR  during a period of rigid and scrutinizing censorship. He used the artistic restraints and the hoops he had to jump through to a brilliant advantage carefully codifying individual artistic and spiritual themes into the chapters of this epic.  The constraints seem to have served to discipline and streamline the narrative...the result is golden ...more truth per foot of film than any I can compare it to.

I saw it first on video in college in a russian art history class, later bought the dvd, and more recently attended a screening at Disney Studios that  colleague was given the invite to but couldn't make.  I brought someone who just didn't get it.

Tarkovsy  is not for everyone though you should give yourself the benefit of the doubt because, if he IS for you, you may very well be changed and touched  and rewarded again and again by this truly timeless gem.