This documentary is a painful but worthwhile look at what is going on in gaza, from a perspective which the mainstream media is very careful to avoid. It doesn't really have a political message per se, instead it just puts a face on the people and the hardship they are suffering under israeli occupation. As it turns out, the palestinians are indeed human after all.

  I have always wondered how a person could want to be a suicide bomber, and assumed that religious fanatacism was the key ingredient, since the act seems so senseless and ugly. Having watched this film, now I think perhaps simple despair, and a desire for revenge, brought on by the policies of the Israeli government (wreaking death and destruction), is what really enables a person to make such a terrible decision. Its sad that the very thing which supposedly is intended to stop terrorism only ends up breeding more, a lesson I am afraid we americans are now going to have to learn the hard way with Iraq.

  I was once far more sympathetic to the Israeli side of the struggle, but as they became ever more brutally heavy-handed and bullying in there actions towards the palestinians I think that the leadership of Israel now has just as much blood on their hands as the 'terrorists' do. I don't know what it will take for us in the US to stop our policy of blind support for Israel, a change of president perhaps? Probably not enough, but a good start anyway.

The saddest part of the whole mess is that the majority of people both israeli and palestinian want peace, and could negotiate a reasonable compromise and implement it, given a chance. But the leadership of both sides, motivated by a mixture of religious extremism and greed, won't allow this to happen. Regardless of Sharon's statements to the contrary, the ball is in Israel's court, it has been for a long time, and the obvious right thing to do is to dismantle all the settlements, right now. That action would alleviate much of israel's security problem, as well as relieving a lot of palestinian suffering. And it would lay the foundation for real peace.

  Perhaps this film will open some eyes to what is going on there, change is needed, it should be pretty obvious where the road they are on now leads.