Season Six of LOST is not my very favorite season.  There are two reasons for that, one being that I didn't like the storyline as well, and two because it was the last season and I didn't want to say goodbye to the show.  I was one of those never-missed-an-episode in all the years of the show people.  In my opinion, Season Six could have stood alone instead of being the last season, and instead of rushing and summing up everything, another season would have been better for ending the show.

What they did with Claire was something I didn't like, with the remains of an animal substituting for baby Aaron.  I also didn't like John Locke becoming the Smoke Monster.  He was a favorite character of mine in the beginning, and he continued to slowly go to the other side as the show progressed.

The sideways flashes had me so totally confused that I had no idea what was going on.  Not until after the show ended and it was explained did it make the slightest bit of sense.  Sort of. For six years I loved this show and watched it faithfully, read just about every book that I saw on the show, and read and researched so many things that may or may not have been clues, but I learned so much about things that I had never known before. It was all worth it.  However, the ending was something that I really was very disappointed with.  It was a very tender ending, but not one that I wanted to see with all my favorite characters coming together after death.  I cried very hard and for a long time, and as for the ending, I can't watch it again, even after a year. I'm not sure when I'll be able to watch it, that's how invested in this show I was and how emotionally attached I became.

Season Six won't do you any good if you haven't watched Seasons One through Five, which I highly recommend.  If you haven't seen the show, you've missed one of the best ever to air on television.  Just because these are my thoughts on Season Six, doesn't mean they're everyone's.  This was a brilliantly produced and directed show, and Season Six is no exception in those two areas.