A couple of space farers wake out of "hypersleep" (most of us would use the term "cryogenic" but given that the author clearly failed highschool science class, this is nit picking). It is shortly established that they are brain damaged from their long hibernation.... and the plot and writing go rapidly down hill from there.

There are carnivorous monsters on board and shortly after you see them, you pretty much know where they came from, long before the "shocking" expostulation.
Upon hearing it, you are left with the choice of blaming the exedition planners or the screenplay writer for smoking way too much crack.

The ship (the primary antagonist for too much of the film) is designed with such a breath-taking lack of common sense that it must have been designed by a congressional committee. Note that the bulkhead doors trap you if the power goes out (unless a monster wants to get through one, then it just pushes open). Preciesly what you want in an emergency, everyone trapped behind a bulkhead so they can't fix the problem, unless there's a hull breach on the other side and then the doors just open.
On the fun side you can run your computer systems for hours with a few spins of a hand crank (makes you wonder why you even need a nuclear reactor to run the ship when hand cranks work so well - better to peddle your way to the stars).

At one point you get to see the exterior of the ship itself and then the reason for the design issues become clear... the architechts were clearly vetrans of "hypersleep"..... way too much hypersleep.

And All of this is forgivable if the plot hangs together.... not really.
Cliced mistakes that make you wince over and over and wonder whether you should care if anyone survives this poorly concieved flight. And then they make sure that you don't just near the end.

Great Actors and direction. Great special effects and hence two stars.
(Note - no subtractions for wasting talents like Dennis Quaid and the others who actually contributed here.... and there were many, more's the pity.)

The producer and screenwriter, however, shouldn't be allowed near a budget larger than a handicam and luch money if for no better reason than to protect the viewing public.

They took a marvelously talented crew and made a lousy movie.