Alfred Hitchcock has thrown sarcasm, comedy, irony, romance, suspense, and an ingenious series of unfortunate events into a can, shook it up, and successfully came out with something that isn't fertilizer.  Alfred Hitchcock's "North by Northwest" is one of the most clever movies I have ever had the pleasure of viewing.  Made in 1959, North by Northwest has yet to become out-dated.  It's full of action from start to finish, rivaling any modern movie.

 North by Northwest was truly ahead of its time.  Taking place in New York, Chicago, and South Dakota 1959, the movie is about Roger Thornhill (played by Cary Grant) whom is mistaken for a government agent who falls between investigations of U.S. intelligence traders.  A series of unfortunate events causes Thornhill to be set up for murder.  Now on the run from spies, counterspies, and the police, Thornhill falls for the very lustful Eve Candle (played by Eva Marie Saint) who is very questionable as to what intentions she has in store for Thornhill.  The movie is full of elaborate schemes, twists, and surprises.

 Roger Thornhill is the depiction of what every adolescent boy wants to grow up to be: confident, cocky, fearless, and un-shaken, with witty sarcastic one-liners that are even recognized by his own mother.  Cary Grant plays the hero of the film perfectly.  Eva Marie Saint's character plays the very flirtatious spy very well and looks even better.  The acting is very impressive in this film.  They all find subtleties to bring out the character's personality.  All the characters are unique and bring an individual presence to the movie.

 Adding to the actor's performances, the cinematography is also quite an advantage to make this movie great.  Most movie-goers are familiar with Alfred Hitchcock's style in camera angles, music, and the new features he brings to bring the full effect to life.  Comically, Hitchcock even put himself in the movie in the beginning shots of New York.  The music is fantastic and elevates the suspense for specific scenes.  Although most action scenes include the ol' blue screen, they don't seem all that cheesy and do not take away from the effect the scene is to bring.

 The movie has all the ingredients for a great action comedy.  The plot seems to come together so seamlessly that it appears almost ridiculous.  Ultimately the movie is quite brilliant to keep the audience on their feet and always second guessing.  A great script, great director, and wonderful acting have made this movie a must see.  I highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys an action comedy.