I dare say I am not alone in the 36 to 42 year age of women that had their first dose of Richard Gere in an Officer and a Gentleman.

  I recently purchased the video from Amazon to be reminded of a movie that haunts every female blue collar worker in the USA and I was not dissapointed at the repeat reminder.yet I dare say maybe embarrased at how Raw Richard Gere displays himself in this gem of a romantic.

  From the beginning you realize that Gere is a force to be reckoned and what a wonderful force he turned out to be.

  If you ever doubted what Gere is capable of this is a good reminder. From one of the most Powerful demoralizing scenes of a Lead Actor ,too the dramatic ending where as always he steals your heart. The last scene of the movie could still sell a million posters.

  Ohh...and Winger? What happened to that chick. She was blazing through the 70's and the 80's. I really am not sure if any other actress could have made this film any more powerful  than her portrayel in this film. From a steamy Sex Scene as incredibly intimate as it is, was, I say one of the most daring of its time and just when you think they fouled it up Winger and Gere prove beyond doubt they know what their doing. Once again making cinema magic.

  With the advance in the industry and the newer films on the market and the older gems that are still revered An Officer and A Gentleman Has Its place.

  For me it was more than a movie it was a vision, a hope and a possibility.

  Yea....the movie turned out better, but ,after my recent re-viewing....It is really good that it did.

  I hope you will add this to your collection. Do not be surprised if you feel almost embarrased for Gere if you have followed his career. I admit the first 16 minutes were a little hard to swallow only because he has soared so high in his occupation and realizing in some way this might be one he would want to forget...only because it is a part of him that he is probably not as in touch with as of current....i.e. 1970's and 2005 but damn he still looks just as HOT....you lucky girl Carey.(His Real-Life Spouse)

  A must for Winger and Gere Fans.