During 1988, there were at least four films that had the same idea of putting a child into a grown man's body.  Only one of them really worked and it was with the film Big.  The film is about a kid named Joshua Baskin.  While trying to impress a girl by riding a roller coaster, he is deemed to be too small and is not let onto the ride.  Feeling depressed, he goes to a wishing machine and wishes that he was "big."  The next morning, Joshua wakes up to discover that he is big but not in the way he imagined it.  He wakes up in the body of a grown adult and spends the rest of the film trying to become a kid again.  He heads off to New York City with his best friend in the hopes of trying to find the machine and figure out how to explain Joshua's absence from his family.  In the hands of lesser talent, this film would have been a disaster.  Fortunately, the film went on to become one of the highest grossing films of 1988 thanks to terrific direction, a fantastic Oscar-nominated screenplay and the performance of a lifetime given by Tom Hanks.  Hanks went on to win a Golden Globe for Best Actor in a Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy and was also nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor.  Personally, I feel as though we would have won if Rain Man had not come out during the same year and Dustin Hoffman giving a truly memorable performance.  Hanks is completely believable as a 13-year-old kid trapped in the body of a 35-year-old.  We truly feel for Joshua as he learns about to complexities of adulthood with the longing for childhood.  The film is full of classic scenes such as Joshua using the large keyboard in the department store, his first time having a female over and especially the ending.  The supporting is cast is also terrific.  I personally felt that Elizabeth Perkins and the boy that played Joshua's friend should have received Oscar-nominations for Best Supporting Actress and Supporting Actors along with the film receiving a best picture nomination.  The screenplay touches on a wide variety of subjects such as valuing your childhood, the difficulty and challenges of growing up and really deciding on what you want.  For the kid in all of us, I would absolutely recommend this film to everyone.  It receives my highest rating of 5 out of 5 stars.