If you ever need to see a movie that picks you up when you are down, you can never go wrong with a movie starring Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. The joyful "Top Hat" is one of their very best.
Fred is a famous American tap dancer, Jerry. At a hotel in London, his room is located above that of Dale(played by Ginger), an American fashion model. When he dances the song "No Strings" in the middle of the night, she goes upstairs to complain. He knows right away that he likes her.
When she goes back down to her room, he puts sand on the floor, and dances a soft shoe. This puts her to sleep, the first of many charming scenes.
Dale is interested in Jerry, too. But when Dale mistakes Jerry for the husband of her friend, Madge(Helen Broderick), she thinks he's a cheating playboy. Madge's husband Horace (Edward Everett Horton) just happens to be a friend of Jerry's.
Dale decides to run off with the fashion designer Alberto (Erik Rhodes) and marry him in Venice. When Jerry realizes the misunderstading, he must get to Venice to stop Dale from marrying a man she doesn't truly love. Fine support is provided by Eric Blore as Horace's right hand man, whose job it it is to follow Dale. Look fast for Lucille Ball as a flower shop clerk.
Director Mark Sandrich ("The Gay Divoree") keeps the witty script moving at a nice, fast pace. The whole look of the film, including an art deco Venice,is stunningly beautiful.
The best parts are, of course, the production numbers.They are choreographed by Hermes Pan, with the music by Irving Berlin.
The score is Berlin's best. "Cheek to Cheek" is one of Fred and Ginger's most romantic dances. "Top Hat, White Tie and Tails", with Fred mowing down his male backing chorus with his cane, is a delight. "Isn't It A Lovely Day To Be Caught In The Rain", a Fred and Ginger dance at a gazebo, is sweet. "The Piccolino",is sung by Ginger and she dances with Fred to it. This song was the last time Fred allowed a large scale production number in one of his movies. In the future, the focus would be on Fred and his partner, not dozens of dancers.
"Top Hat" was nominated for four Oscars, inclding Best Picture. It also turns up on many lists of great musicals.
The print of the film for this DVD is top notch. There is also an okay Bob Hope short and a cute cartoon called "Paging Miss Glory".
A new "making of" short about the movie is included. There is also a commentary track by Fred's daughter Ava and film historian Larry Billman, that is worth a listen ,if only once.
This DVD is worth the price.