Just watched the entire Blu-ray from start to finish. A-MA-ZING! Britney worked it! I saw The Femme Fatale Tour live twice and actually met Britney in Zagreb (flew all the way from Helsinki for that) and she was really sweet. You can tell that she really loves what she does. Back during the Onyx Hotel Tour you could tell by watching her performances that she was pretty much over it. Even though she was technically on point, delivering some of the best dance moves in the industry, looking at her eyes it felt like someone was forcing her to tour and she just wanted to stop. Not anymore. On this tour she looks so much more alive and in the moment. She's having fun with the crowd and the performances. She's full of energy and spirit. It felt like watching the Britney at the starting point of her career again.

The tour itself was very well directed. The costumes were great and the set list is packed with hits. I can't pick a favorite performance because they're all really essential. Sure there were some stand out moments but the show wouldn't work without those less elaborate moments either.

The video quality is top notch. I did see some weird jagged lines in some scenes but they didn't really bother me. The only complain I have about the video is that they did a poor job hiding the fact that they used footage from two nights on this release. Her hair looked different and the editing team didn't really seem to care at all. Also the lighting was different on these two nights. The first night's lighting was way too bright and it made her look pale and her hair looked like it was drenched in sweat. They seemed to have fixed the problem on the second night and she looked a lot more camera friendly. So seeing these two footage being switched around back and forth in one song was kinda annoying.

The audio quality is great, I really like that they didn't drown it with audience noises. Most of the concert was dubbed with album vocals which really pissed me off at first but I'm kinda getting used to it now. I found a little "easter egg" with the audio: during "...Baby One More Time" if you listen to the LPCM track you'll hear the album vocals but if you switch to the DD 5.1 track you'll hear the live (well, pre-recorded) vocals. I thought that was kinda neat seeing that we only got the dubbed vocals during the Epix broadcast.