I will say, right off, that I am a huge fan of GM. Having said that though- I think it's completely unbiased to say that this was a phenomenal concert. I never had the chance to see GM in concert when I was a teenager and Faith was THE ONLY music that mattered, but I got to see George on this 25 Tour in Atlanta, GA. This was as George was just starting to get sick and while he may not have felt his best, he sounded perfect. I don't say that lightly but I say it honestly; George was just beyond imagination that night. His energy, his pitch, his entire show- just brilliant. He filmed this concert less than two weeks later and you can hear that he sounds a little under the weather. Even with that being an issue- there's no way to rate this a 4 star. I've seen the concert 5 or 6 times since I bought it and I love it each time. It's a time machine that moves me right back to the night I saw him in concert- only much closer. If you're a fan of the man and the music, I can't think of a song that you'd want to hear that isn't in this concert. Maybe "Waiting for that Day" or "Cowboys and Angels", but there would be a problem fitting it into a wonderfully arranged set. Heck- Fantasy was in here!

The one thing I will say- the "I'd Know Him A Mile Off" was a bit more of a "guy with a camera/behind the scenes" type extra and NOT a typical documentary. Sorry David, but you know what it was and what it wasn't.

The last issue that I'd add is the sound. It's not perfect. I've discovered that the entire production sounds better in Stereo than in Surround Sound. Odd, but it helps to fill up the video better than the Surround Sound that somehow sounded 'flat'. It's not a big issue once I found a way around it- but as great as the picture is (especially in Blu vs. DVD), I wish the sound was just as stellar.

Don't hesitate to buy this on Blu Ray. If you only have DVD- get it. It's such an amazing concert and the ONLY official one we've got. This is a remarkable talent and this tour showed why George is one of this generation's most amazing talents- not to be missed by anyone who made it through the 80's and 90's. Buy It- you'll love it!