Alert: Spoilers ahead!

Yes, the camera shots and well-exercised steady-cam evoke 'The Evil Dead', and, yes, the final third of the film is a dumb 'Exorcist' knock off. But that's just nitpicking. 'Amityville II: The Possession' is a hoot of a haunted house movie that isn't afraid to dabble in incest, child abuse, marital rape, exorcism and automatic handwriting. In other words, it covers ALL the bases.

As a loose 'prequel' to the first film, 'Amityville II: The Possession' commences with the Montelli family gleefully staking their claim upon America's favourite Indian burial ground. Before too long, there's blood coming from pipes, spirits rattling doors and some funky fashions that evoke the threads from 'Boogie Nights'. Indeed, young Sonny Montelli (Jack Magner) bears a striking resemblance to Mark Wahlberg, but instead of getting it on in some low rent adult films, Sonny decides instead to deflower his sister, Patricia. Boy, he needs a better agent (and so does she!).

Strangely, it is the 'family romance' at the heart of 'Amityville II' that is so intriguing. Big brother sleeps with sister. Local priest wants to sleep with same sister. Mom won't sleep with Dad. Local priest goes 'camping' with 'close friend'. From the Marlene Dietrich and Jim Morrison posters conspicuously in view, to the emphasis upon the slime in the basement, it appears that Oedipal trauma is a big thing for the 'Amityville II' film makers. When Sonny finally follows The Lizard King's instructions (Dude! You were meant to get it on with your MOTHER, not your SISTER!), the film hits a high point that makes the preceeding 60 minutes more than worth the wait. Guided by some instructions from his Walkman (no doubt the lyrics to Twisted Sister's 'We're Not Gonna Take It'), Sonny undertakes some target practice without leaving the comfort of his own home. Indeed, the family 'execution' is quite unsettling, and the close-ups of Sonny doing his best Stanley Kubrick 'psycho' impersonation quite eerie.

But given that most of the cast have now been eradicated (and moved on to better things...like episodes of 'MacGyver'), the film is left with a boring priest who attempts to save Sonny from his 'possession'. The final 20 minutes include the requisite barfing, crucifix jousting, house bleeding and lurid demonic verbal gymnastics but, alas, no more shots of a scantily clad Patricia (she gives the priest a tongue lashing, however, so things aren't all bad).

So, if Mom and Dad have denied you the use of the car for the weekend, or you happen to be an angry loner, watch 'Amityville II: The Possession'. However - as the neighbours have been telling the various occupants of the Amityville house year after year - RENT, don't buy. :)