This wonderful movie doesn't just tell a terrific story, it is a parable with deep psycho-emotional - and if you are willing to see them, even spiritual - implications.  What does it mean?  I don't want to spoil your fun by spelling it out in too much detail, but let me give you a few hints.

When the movie begins all the major characters - and there are a number of them, for this is an ensemble piece in which several characters are of more or less equal importance - are seen to be suffering from that almost universal affliction of fallen man, broken relationships.  Each is, in his or her own way, either lacking the relationships they desire or unable to relate successfully to the most significant other in their lives.  As a result, they are all more or less miserable, as Lottie Wilkins says to her newfound friend Rose Arbuthnot early in the movie.

The story this movie goes on to tell is essentially about how all this brokenness gets healed.  Thematically that puts it in the same class with some of my other favorite movies, like A Christmas Carol (I prefer the old black & white Alistair Sim version) and Groundhog Day.  Although less obviously than those two, Enchanted April is also a bit of a fantasy, for it takes some powerful magic to get these unhappy people out of their deeply entrenched ruts, just as it took magic (or would you prefer to call it divine intervention?) to save Scrooge and Phil Connors the weatherman.

In this case the magic is provided by a place:  A castle in Italy called San Salvatore.  But the fantasy is deeply rooted in reality, and we have no trouble believing that at San Salvatore anything really is possible, even that all these miserable people would find the healing and happiness they long for in one miraculously "enchanted April."  For anyone with whom this theme resonates, the movie thereby provides not merely a happy ending, but one that is truly joyful.

Another thing that makes this movie a treat to watch is that it is full of wit and good humor.  Much of it is rather subtle, but if you don't laugh out loud numerous times either you are not paying attention or your sense of humor is very different from my own.  Be sure to watch for the hilarious little sermon fragment in an early scene, which is easy to overlook but priceless if you catch it.

It also doesn't hurt that Enchanted April is marvelously written, acted, and directed.  Tom Keogh's editorial review mentions a "particularly sensitive" performance by Alfred Molina, and a "very funny one" by Jim Broadbent.  I agree on both counts, but hasten to point out that even these are surpassed by the brilliant performance of Joan Plowright, for which she deservedly received a Golden Globe award and an Academy Award nomination.  The cinematography is also of the highest quality, particularly the gloriously beautiful scenes set in sunny Italy.  These would be even more beautiful on DVD, and it seems disgraceful to me that this terrific movie has not yet been released in that format!

In conclusion, I can only add that while both my wife and I could mention a great many movies we have enjoyed over the years, we both agree that this one is our absolute favorite.  If you haven't seen it yourself, and if anything I have said makes you suspect you might possibly enjoy it, or has even piqued your interest in any way, I encourage you to see it as soon as possible.  It may not be easy to find at your local video store, but I urge you to make whatever effort it takes.  I'm almost certain you won't be disappointed!