To begin with, I don't understand why Captain Blood is frequently dismissed, only considered worth mentioning because it was the film that made Errol Flynn a star.  I'll admit that I'm a relative novice when it comes to classic pirate films as well as classic Flynn films (I haven't even seen Robin Hood yet!), but this film was so rich that I can't imagine a wider knowledge of the genre diminishing its grandeur.

I approached this film looking for a good sword-fight.  I'd never seen a swash-buckler film and felt I was missing out.  In that respect, Captain Blood might almost seem like a disappointment.  It takes a very long time to get to any real action, and there's only one memorable duel in the film.  However, what I found instead was an instantly likable, earthy protagonist, at war with himself as well as his nation, all while cracking witty one-liners and endearing the audience with his vibrant sincerity.  Add to this a highly compelling plot about revenge and self-realization, a masterful ensemble cast, countless laugh-out-loud moments that truly feel earned as opposed to obligatory, excellent pacing that manages to prevent a two hour film from ever feeling dull, a very convincing and endearing romantic sub-plot, and exceptional special effects for the time period (delivered in excess at the film's climax).  No, the action doesn't come quickly or frequently in this film, but what you get in its place makes the wait more than worthwhile.  My wife and I will be watching this film again and again.

I think it's also worthwhile to mention Leonard Maltin's "Warner Night at the Movies," included on this disk.  It features a hand-picked selection of short reels that would have been shown at the movies along with Captain Blood in 1935.  I've always wanted to see something like this on a DVD extra features menu.  Finally, I can see a classic film in something close to its original context, amidst a myriad of reels from varied genres -- a true Depression Era variety show.  Each of the reels has a charm of its own, from the explicitly budget-conscious trailer for A Midsummer Night's Dream ("At Popular Prices") to a news reel in which Bruno Hauptmann is sentenced to death for kidnapping the Lindburgh baby and FDR pledges to keep the United States out of the emerging conflict in Europe.  Add Charlie McCarthy, an early Warner Brothers cartoon, and a big band performance to the equation, and you're set for one fine evening at the 1930s movies.  My only regret with this feature is that you can't watch all the reels together.  Each must be accessed individually on the special features menu.

Regarding the particulars of this transfer of the film, the picture is quite clear, and, though a few lines of dialogue get lost here and there, the sound is relatively good for a film from the mid-1930s.

All in all, this is a treasure of a DVD.  Any fan of classic films, pirate or otherwise, would be amiss to pass this one up.