<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00012QM8G">Schindler's List (Widescreen Edition)</a>I saw this movie for the first time along with a group of seven other people, in a completely full theater.  When the curtain went down and the lights came on, everyone got up and moved to the door, but no one said a word.  Not one.  It was dead quiet all the way out to the street.  I've never experienced anything like that.

I was raised knowing all about the six million we lost in the Holocaust, not to mention the five or six million others who died in the camps, but I didn't really get it until Spielberg silenced me and everyone else in the room.  How did he do it?

First of all, he chose the right protagonist.  Oskar Schindler, the savior of a thousand Jews, was anything but an angel - he toadied up to those in power unashamedly, paid bribes with money he didn't have, took advantage of the unfortunate for his own ends, cheated endlessly on his wife, and kept his eye on his bottom line to the exclusion of everything else.  He was flawed, vulnerable and human, like you and me, and through his reaction to what he sees we can feel the indescribable horror as we could not through the reactions of a saint.  There's a scene in this movie where Schindler, out for a horseback ride with one of his girlfriends, happens upon a mountain of corpses being burned.  A saint might look sad or angry at such a scene - Liam Neeson's expression is that of a man falling off a cliff he didn't know was there.  Faced with such carnage, that's probably how I'd look, too.

Spielberg's other smart move was filming "Schindler's List" in black and white.  Siskel and Ebert have pointed out, rightly, that black and white makes images appear somehow eternal, like historical documents rather than mere pictures.  That's certainly true here, but it works on many levels.  Sometimes the black and white photography has a matte finish and takes on the character of news photography, showing how banal (and therefore how terrifying) an image is, such as those times when Ralph Fiennes Commandant Goeth shoots a few passing prisoners for breakfast.  On the other hand, "Schindler's List" contains a great many images that look like they were etched on mirrors, such as the famous shot of a little boy hiding from the Nazis at the bottom of a latrine.  At those moments, even when (as one character says) "all around lies the gulf," the pictures soak up a truly heavenly light, as though Someone were watching.

The performers involved certainly behave as though Someone were watching, and they turn in the work of their lives, from the stars to the bit players.  Neeson has just the right sort of big, craggy face that can show decadence one minute and agony the next, and he's got the talent to run the whole gamut in all the right places.  Fiennes, in his first major role, resembles nothing so much as a sort of human hog, but a cunning and crazed one - he seems able to sweat on cue.  Ben Kingsley as Schindler's factory manager, with almost no change in his facial expression, makes us see how he moves from suspicion to hope to love for this strange animal, his boss.  And besides these monumental performances, there's the black marketeer who finagles his customers with one breath and loves his wife with the next; the engineer who sacrifices her life to the fact that concrete needs to be poured with care; the old hinge-maker who waits on his knees for a miracle involving a jammed gun; the pretty young woman who informs Schindler that he's running a haven rather than a factory; the kindly but finally gutless industrialist, and a many dozen others, all unforgettable.

And then there's Spielberg's damping down his usual sentimentality, his choice of Yiddish music for the soundtrack, his placement of the camera at a quiet and unobtrusive angle for the worst of evils - I found all of this pretty nearly perfect, but there were those who complained about the movie's historical inaccuracy.  In one scene, much noted for its supposed softening of the facts, Schindler's female "employees" find themselves in a big room with shower heads in the ceiling and actually get a shower instead of a flood of poison gas.  It's true that most prisoners were not so fortunate, and that such scenes may play into the hands of the filth who claim that there was no cyanide in the camps, but I can't see that as an argument against this movie.  If nothing else, the looks of tension on the women's faces before the water comes down is more than enough to tell us what they expect to get.

After all, Spielberg is not a documentarian, he's a storyteller; this story could not have had a better servant.  The meaning of the Holocaust is as plain as plain here, particularly at the end when Schindler realizes that he could have saved a few more human beings if he had just thought to sell his car or his gold Nazi pin.  He crumples weeping to his knees, only to be lifted up by the men and women he has saved.

A little later we learn that the descendants of Schindler's Jews living in Israel outnumber the entire current Jewish population of Poland.  That silences all criticism, as the movie audience already knew.  Hence the quiet after the final credits.

Benshlomo says nothing.