Se7en can be legitimately labelled one of the most original classic serial killer films ever produced. It truly is a masterpiece in terms of depicting monstrous evil in the guise of religious righteousness against a backdrop of modern nihilism and human degradation.

The film focuses on the seven deadly sins created in the 13th century by Catholic theologians as a method to teach virtue and the dangers of the individual relenting to their base desires. These sins are in fact extremes of natural human desires - hunger/gluttony, laziness/sloth, self-esteem/pride, sexual appetite/lust and so on.

The film uses this notion of sin as a metaphor for modern society in general. Every scene is dark, degraded in appearance, raining - there is nothing in the story that provides the viewer with any contrast, that is hope, light or compassion. Se7en is intended to reveal the flipside to human nature in its extremes and how far we have dwindled as a civilization.

Detective Somerset (Morgan Freeman) is at the end of a long career as a police detective. He has seen human degradation in its many forms, and is finally only seven days away from his retirement. As a character, Somerset is cynical, wise about human nature, however is still effected by man's inhumanity to man. He wants to get out. Detective Mills (Brad Pitt) is a young ambitious officer, newly transferred to the city and is anxious to make his mark. By contrast, Mills is excitable, emotional and takes the job personally. Together they find themselves in the wake of vicious and methodical murders, designed around the seven deadly sins. The killer is a man with tremendous will and patience, sometimes torturing his victims for days, and in one case, a full twelve months. These murders are exceptionally horrific because the killer wants to make a grand point, because he is preaching to the world about how far he believes we have fallen as a society, morally and ethically. In the killers mind, he believes we have dwindled so far and have become so apathetic, that we need to be literally shocked to our moral senses.

In this special edition, included are deleted scenes and extended takes with Fincher commenting in the background. One of the more interesting additions is the commentary and creation of John Doe's notebooks. They were actually handwritten and drawn with painstaking precision. These extras accurately reveal the amount of detailed work that goes into creating a film of this high standard.

Se7en is an exceptionally well-made film, and one of those pictures that can be viewed several times over the years to still find new aspects about it never seen before.