1. Are you a fan of the ninja mythos? If yes, continue
2. Do you like awesomely executed choreography and to be Entertained? IF yes, go on
3. Are you one of those people that sit back and watch ALL movies looking to be enlightened on the meaning of life and anything that doesn't make you think disgust you? If yes, Stop, you don't belong here. If yes, Continue...

When this movie was being thought up, there was one thing on the mind of the director. "How can I bring back the love of ninjas that I had as a young child?" His answer was to create this movie and update the premise of the ninja with the many cool things that have been done with the genre since the old days of Sho Kosugi's Revenge of the Ninja. This means, take all of the mythological aspects of the ninja:
Shadow walking (or melding with shadows)
The mind of a Ninja (Classic training Sequences that exist in all Martial Flicks
Wicked Sword play and creative use of weaponry
Agility beyond what normal humans have
Add in a little Ninja Magic and Jutsu
= ENTER NINJA ASSASSIN

As with all great movies and concepts this film excels at one thing in particular, Mixing Genres. Within the first 5 minutes of the story, you will realize that you aren't dealing with a strict action movie. There is a great blend of Horror, Suspense, Comedy, and down right Awesomeness. As with all action movies there are some things that people consider weak with the plot but lets not get ahead of ourselves. If you go into an action movie looking to see Schindlers List, you will be disappointed. This movie was made strictly to entertain. If it does not do that for you, then you have no blood in your veins or you should go see twilight and look at the debauchery of vampire myth and swoon over the skin of a killer. Seeing Sho Kosugi again after all these years is amazing, and to see that he is still just as awesome as he was in the 80s when I was a child is Inspirational. Everyone does their job in the film acting wise, and After months of training and choreography and turning his body into a killing machine, Rain pulls it all together. I have actually read the script for this movie and there are some things that I hope are included with the blu ray. The ideas that are touched on in the film would make great stories in themselves and I for one hope that this implies that the Ninja Renaissance is upon us. Its been too long.

The only thing you get from this movie is visceral action, classic ninja cinema, and a plot that fits the moment.

A lot of people went into this movie thinking that they were going to go see the next Matrix film, as they do with any film that has the Wachowskis banner on it somewhere. This has lead to a lot of films by them and their protege McTiegue being overlooked. The biggest crime being the bad press that Speed Racer Received even though it was one of the best family movies ever. Buy Ninja Assassin and you will not be disappointed.