Let me preface this by saying that I didn't like "Sideways". I hated "Sideways". I wanted my money back. I wanted Sandra Oh to suffer for making me suffer throught that film. However, a lot of people liked "Sideways". A lot of people also like "Prarie Home Companion" and think that "Dilbert" is among the great mines of caustic wit. These are the people who will enjoy "Thank You for Smoking". For everyone else, I've written several good reasons for you to avoid this movie.

1) The film doesn't work as satire because it's too unfocused and tries to make everyone happy. Why not a scating rebuke of the tobacco industry and leave it at that? Why make everyone and everything (and I do mean everything) a target? Don't believe me? Allow me to whip out my "Easy Target" checklist - TYFS has evil corporations, silly feel-good anti-freedom liberals, politicians, Hollywood kiss-up Assistants, out of touch Left-coast new age "industry types", smarmy lobbyists, whiny intellectuals, and finally THE MEDIA!!! Those unethical journalists who only pretent to love you until they get the story. Like that guy who *said* that he worked for the Penny Saver and told me that he loved me until. . .nevermind.

2) The tobacco industry, its influence, and how it's evil? Really? Why not a satirical piece about how we stole land from the indians? Or maybe a satire about the Kennedy Administration? Or the Iran-Contra affair? Probably because they aren't timely and people wouldn't care - and good satire (espescially when it isn't cleverly couched in a more metaphorical context) needs to be timely, even in the case of a film that deals with events past - the subject matter itself needs to be timely (i.e. Three Kings, Barbarians at the Gates). Which is why The Daily Show works so well now, but old episodes (say from 7 or 8 years ago) are as funny as trip and fall down a long, unfunny staircase. This movie just felt stale and its satirical choppers, therefore, had no bite. What remained was:

3) Postmodernism - postmodernism, or the grating self-awareness of watching and, in the case of Mr. Eckhart, being in a movie coupled with overdose levels of irony and the big pat on the back to the audience that "you guys all get it. If you laugh at the movie, you get it. You know that corporations are bad and evil and, unlike every character in this film, you are a young, hip, aware, educated moviegoer who is savvy enough to figure it out". Postmodernism makes you feel good for wasting your life in front of a television or knowing anything at all about our culture. Specifically, this film (if you think about it) was fairly devoid of plot - I mean, when you think about it, its all right there in the trailer. In other words, completely by the numbers (but by the numbers of other films that share the same basic structure - i.e. company man who realizes that there are things more important than his evil,evil career helping save "The Man") to the point that it lazily doesn't even bother playing out the protagonist's redemption. Rather, you get the following: freeze frame on A.E. at that critical moment followed by dialogue: "I bet you think I took the job and the money, I didn't. Some things are more important". Cut to shot of his son (A.K.A. creepy child from that Nicole Kidman movie where he claims to be her dead husband) riding in car. In fact, there's no enlightenment in this age of Truth commercials and anti-corporate flag waving. We get it, corporations are bad. They want our money and don't care about us. But a movie about a tobacco lobbyist who's all smarm and teeth. Sweet baby jeebus, it's one Leslie Neilsen away from a spoof.

The reason the film worked is because you've seen it before in its other incarnations. Which isn't a crime - a lot of movies do that. But I have a tendency to not call out the ones that do it well. This had a few well placed jokes, but it didn't have any teeth. I didn't leave feeling enlightened, and didn't feel that A.E. was some kind of power lobbyist. For example, that he won over a Senate hearing with the line "High cholesterol kills more people than smoking, shouldn't we have that label on cheese" would, if presented as argument in a real senate committee, draw raised eyebrows and the simple counter "cheese isn't directly related to the deaths of its customer base and, if you check the facts, smoking is a large factor in cases of high cholesterol". But in the film, which has been written, we take for granted that A.E. is a wunderkind Svengali snake-oil salesman who can convince ANYONE of ANYTHING, despite the fact that he only debates people whose couldn't form a counter-argument to genocide. It's like trying to sell me on someone being the greatest boxer in the world, but they only fight old women and four year-olds. Don't just tell me the guy's the world's greatest arguer - show me. Have him convince me of something other than the laziness of the screenwriter.

4) If Katie Holmes was set on fire she couldn't convincinly play a person on fire.