This movie could have used Adam Sandler.

This is a big statement coming from me. Sandler seems like a nice guy, but his movies, with the exception of a few, have steadfastedly refused to amuse me. Happy Gilmore is his absolute peak: funny situations, good jokes, good comedic actors working together to be funny. Sandler is at his best, throwing out one-liners and hilarious jokes that absolutely refuse to become unfunny. It's his high point as a comedian. Besides certain points of Billy Madison and parts of The Wedding Singer, he's worthless. Everything else has been either stupid (Little Nicky, or whatever that movie was called, The Waterboy) or sappy (Big Daddy, 50 First Dates). He's funny if he has good material, but he rarely ever gets it.

Why is it so important that I write this long thesis on Adam Sandler? I want to illustrate to the reader of this review how momentous of an occasion it is when I say the following: THIS MOVIE NEEDED ADAM SANDLER.

Made by the same production company or whatever that has made his last several movies, it differs in his last few movies in that he plays no role in this movie. And this hurts. Fans of his movies will recognize most of the cast: many of them have been in his movies for a long time. The supporting cast, basically. It's almost like Adam said "you know what guys, you've been such a good supporting cast in my career, how about you make a movie where YOU'RE THE STARS? I'll sit this one out."

This movie makes me realize how much I've underestimated Sandler as a comedian. I always thought he was stupid, crude, and much too blunt. However, I was proven wrong. Sandler is absolutely subtle and complex when compared to this crap. This is seriously the worst comedy I've ever seen. It is the epitome of bad comedy writing. I counted 3 things in the movie that made me smile, but then frown when they were undeveloped. I'm sorry if I can't remember any of them: they're all drowned in the sea of crap that is the rest of the movie. This was a poorly plotted, poorly paced, poorly acted, and poorly written movie. There is no plot until the very end: an hour and a half is spent on character development. The movie is almost over when the main character reveals he was once an accountant. What?! He just opines this at the very end to his boss, and it changes absolutely nothing in the movie. The characters are all painfully shallow caricatures. This makes the "climax" of the movie completely unimpressive: the entirely unfunny character of the main bad guy (can't remember his name, ain't trying to find out) steals the lead characters game, claiming it as his own. Finally, drama. It's resolved in five minutes: grandma comes in, plays the game, bam, that's it end of movie. The hour and a half before this is spent wallowing in ridiculousness. He lives with his grandma: they watch the Antique Show, and he can't beta test his game. GET IT?! He comes home late, gets high, and cooks some food. He removes the tray from the oven without gloves, badly burning his hands, being unable to beta test his game. GET IT?! (I don't get how this is supposed to be his grandma's fault, but whatever.) His grandma finds some "tea" in his pot stash, and drinks it with her friends. They get high. GET IT?! Doris Roberts tries really hard to make her grandma role amusing, but really this is just Everybody Loves Raymond without jokes. At least Everybody Loves Raymond has real jokes, written by a real comedian. Sure, they're often lame and unfunny, but hey, I've laughed at that show. I didn't laugh once in this movie.

This movie is everything that's wrong with comedy now. I can't even express it adaquetly in words how much this movie offended me. Even with Adam Sandler this movie would have sucked: the jokes are simply not there. Sure, Sandler could have gotten some laughs with his delivery (which has always been his strongest point: the "comedians" in this movie have all the comedic delivery of a rock). But nothing could save this movie at all from being the worst comedy I've ever seen, hands down. Avoid. Avoid. Avoid. .