"Dollhouse" is not Joss Whedon's best work. It didn't start off on the strongest foot and it had a hard time finding a strong central voice within the first few episodes. However, once it found that voice, "Dollhouse" took off with a vengeance that left viewers and critics more and more enthralled with each new installment. Although it didn't have the strongest ratings at airing, "Dollhouse" recieved an enormously faithful fanbase over its first season and gained in leaps and bounds when considering next-day viewing with DVR, Hulu, and iTunes.

The greatest strength and also the greatest weakness of "Dollhouse" is its content matter. Put (somewhat) simply, "Dollhouse" raises the disturbing question of: can technology wipe away a soul? "Dollhouse" is centered around a shady underground organization that houses a stable of Actives (vernacularly called "Dolls"), a group of people who have essentially no personality until one is imprinted on them by the Dollhouse for the needs of a specific client.

"Dollhouse," when done correctly, was enthralling and disturbing to the extreme. Comparable both to an involuntary whoring operation and illegal servitude, the true personalities in "Dollhouse" were the owners of the establishment and the Dolls' handlers. These are not true villains, however; Whedon and Co. display each of these characters strengths and weaknesses in such a way that you almost understand the motivations of each character. This was masterful storytelling that was almost a misstep; in a world such as "Dollhouse" a viewer practically needs someone to hate.

Luckily, Eliza Dushku readily stepped up to the plate as a character to root for. Echo is the Dollhouse's most popular Active -- beautiful and a natural to the science of the Dollhouse, Echo assumes roles and personalities and adapts within those roles easier than any other Doll in the House. Echo, however, is beginning to become self-aware, raising the question: can anybody truly lose their personality, to become, as Adelle DeWitt (the Dollhouse's leader, played by the remarkably talented Olivia Williams) deems it, a blank slate? When we first meet Caroline (the woman "Echo" was before she became a Doll), she insists not: "Have you ever tried to wipe a slate clean?" she demands. "You can always see what's been there before."

There are also threats to go alongside the interesting engagements the Dollhouse dispatches its Actives on; on the one hand we have the very interesting character of FBI Agent Paul Ballard (played by Battlestar Galactica's Tahmoh Penickett), a man on the verge of a complete obsession with taking down the Dollhouse, even though his colleagues refuse to believe it exists. On the other, we have Alpha, an Active who suffered a "composite event" and went both rogue and insane, slicing his way to freedom on a murderous rampage. Both Ballard and Alpha have an unhealthy fascination with Echo, which goes from simmering to boiling excitement when the show takes off.

But when is that, exactly? The first five episodes are, aside from one or two shining examples, fairly lackluster. These episodes were approached in an "engagement of the week" way, and each one was considered something of a standalone. Although watching Echo's increasing self-awareness and gaining interesting glimpses of Ballard's hunt for Caroline was interesting, it was hard to follow the show when it was clear from the beginning that you could miss an episode or two and not miss a large amount of information. Also, with the focus almost entirely on Echo, the large and highly talented supporting cast was almost wasted -- Amy Adams makes a return to television as the haunted Dr. Claire Saunders, and newcomers Dichen Lachmen and Enver Gjokaj positively shine and at times outdo Eliza Dushku as her fellow dolls.

This was thankfully explosively fixed with the much-hyped sixth episode "Man on the Street," where Whedon's love of the ensemble cast finally shown through, breaking "Dollhouse" free of the standalone mold and developing a strange mythology that rose more questions than it answered. Now that the show has been renewed for a second season, the obvious direction to go in that season is from "Man on the Street": there are more than twenty Dollhouses, each with major social and political ties.

Gaining strength with each episode, making use of its strong ensemble cast, and developing its mythology more and more with each episode, "Dollhouse" gave a spectacular penultimate episode with "Briar Rose" that was followed by a somewhat anticlimactic, yet deeply thought-provoking, finale ("Omega"). Although "Dollhouse" is not the best or the most exciting of Whedon's rich history, it is possibly his most important, carrying the weighty themes as it does of soul, personality, and the true strength of man's humanity over machinery. Billed as a sci-fi, "Dollhouse" is also something of a philosophical adventure.

Filled with enough exciting action sequences and bank heists -- even featuring an "Alias"-esque adventure through the NSA in the highly exciting episode "A Spy in the House of Love" as well as an old-fashioned knock down drag out brawl in a Chinese restaurant's kitchen -- to suit action fans, "Dollhouse" is also full of social and political metaphors, sleek science fiction, and even some elements of horror. "Dollhouse" is not easy to pin down or categorize.

The bottom line: Although "Dollhouse" started off on shaky legs (and the third episode featuring the back-up singer storyline was just as truly awful as it looked), once it found its voice it sucked you in until the final minutes, filled with enough thought-provoking twists and turns to ensure fans' eager return next season. As one Active states: "There are more than twenty Dollhouses, each with ties to the most powerful social and political systems in the world...The Dollhouse deals with fantasy but that is not its purpose. You must find that purpose."

I, for one, am most certainly looking forward to discovering that purpose. "Dollhouse" Season 1: 4 out of 5 stars.