Red Sonja is the cross between awful and yet a fun, stupid adventure. The acting is horrible, the script could have been written by any semi-literate creature with a writing instrument, the special effects aren't that great but are the better part of the film in SOME parts (see monster water machine thing), and the climactic ending isn't all that climactic. Until you get to the ending-ending, then you can speculate what happens after that smoochin'. But this kind of movie treads that fine line between so bad it'll give you a nose bleed because you realize you spent money on it and yet also so bad it's a hoot. Just don't think a lot, enjoy the fact that Red Sonja makes a severe mullet look manageable and the fact she is rather pretty when she's not trying to act. Or speak. Or do anything outside look off in the distance...

A lot of this I believe was done absolutely tongue in cheek. But the sword fighting is neat, the little kid/prince is superbly annoying (which is the point), the fat dude makes for an interesting character, Sonja's hot and so verbally challenged when saying her lines that as a fantasy gal with a broad sword she'd scare you off at "Hell-Oh". Then there's Arnold who is, well, Arnold - poster child for broadswords and upper arms that make women (who aren't slightly grossed out by muscle bound guys) coo. Every geek (including me) loves Arnold. A lot. So we buy this flick. And if we're also in the real world, we just sit back and laugh until you start crying (literally, it's that bad).

The one thing that gets me is her bizarrely weak nemesis. I am thoroughly convinced this is just evidence bad barbarian breakups make fr a whole lot of seriously expressed anger issues. Like the whole, "Oh, I'll have your family murdered, burn your house down with you in it after you're totally abused by my soldiers and we'll fight to the death at the end of all this when I find out you survived said fire! RAR!". Totally screams bad lady-lady breakup so just get prepared for the cat-fighting. And the fact that Arnold makes himself useful because he's in love with Sonja, not because he's really there to destroy this nameless world making/destroy/a glowing-spiked-ball-thin like he says he is. But that's to be expected.

My final warning is that you might get this feeling throughout the film that if you were caught watching this it might seem worse than other things you could be doing on the internet. YES, it's that bad.

And, for reasons unknown, there's some fun in spending an hour and a half laughing at this (if you're in the right mindset).

Don't take it too seriously; just eat popcorn with friends and get ready to cackle!