The incredibles attempts a bold move by borrowing its plot from the popular James Bond movie thunderball. Pixar beats Marvel comic's fantasic four too the summer movies.  The incredibles has alot of humour that adults will enjoy.

Frozone really makes the movie fun, "Honey where is my super suit?" "I uh - put it away." "Why do you need to know?" "I need it!" "Nuh uh! Don't you think about leaving to do some derrin' do! We've been planning this dinner for two months!" "The public is in danger!" "My evening's in danger!" "Tell me where my super suit is WOMAN" "This is for the greater good!" "I am your wife! I am the greatest 'good' you are ever gonna get!"

Kids love to quote Edna: "You can't! It's impossible! I'm far too busy, so ask me now before I become sane. " "No capes!" "Go! Confront the problem! Fight! Win!"

In the first action scene, Mr Incredible stops his pursuit of a villian too assist an old woman rescue her kitten that is stuck in a tree by tearing up the tree and shaking it. Mr Incredible then uses the the tree too smash and stop the escaping villian's car.

In another action scene, Mr Incredible stops a man from committing suicide. The man sues Mr Incredible saying "You never saved my life. YOU RUINED MY DEATH!!!" Mr Incredible and family are enrolled in the super hero relocation program and Mr Incredible must promise the government never to use his super powers, again.  Bob takes a job as an insurance claims agent.  Bob doesn't stay out of trouble for long and is forced back into super hero action.

Helen, elastic girl is happy with her mundane life.  Until Dash gets in trouble by putting tacks on the teachers seat.  Dash goes unnoticed, the survellience video shows a small movement, and the teacher is certain Dash put the tack on his seat.  Dash desires involves school sports which is not a possiblity because of his super speed.

Dash. "I promise I'll slow up! I'll only be the best by a tiny bit!"  Eventually, Dash will join the track team and place 2nd in the school race.

Violet is becoming less noticed by the boys and particularly likes one boy but goes invisible to avoid talking with him.

Voilet. "Normal? What do you know about 'normal'? What does anyone in this family know about 'normal'? We act normal Mom, I want to be normal! The only normal one is Jack-Jack - and he's not even toilet-trained! "  Eventually, Violent gains confidence and gets noticed by the boy.

Bob, Mr Incredible remembers his glory days. Both,he and Frozone tell Helen they are going bowling but instead go out on secret missions patroling for villians and listening to police radios for activity.  After on nullified caper, Mr Incredible is contacted by a mystery woman with a secret assignment to get control of a rouge military robot, Omnidroid X.  Mr Incredible defeats the robot by tricking the robot into attacking itself.  The villian is a disgruntled fan, who seeks to punish Mr Incredible for his youthful rejection.

The Incredibles get new suits and use their super powers very creatively and adaptively to defeat the super robot, avoid spinning razor hoover craft, hide from smart flying probes, and break out of electromagnetic containment cuffs.

In the end the Villian is destroyed.  The villian is more irritating than diabolical and his cape gets the villian sucked into his aircraft turbines. Edna was right about capes!