"Battle of Britain" has suffered for 35 years by a severely truncated edit. It has always resembled a bad local TV station edit on many fronts, with characters disappearing, huge lapses in continuity, and perhaps the most abrupt ending ever dumped on the moviegoing public. It has always felt to me like "selected scenes from a good movie". Its success and ongoing soft spot in the hearts of WWII fans is based on the strength of the battle scenes, the sheer scope of assembling so many period planes long after the war, and the lavish attention to detail. But it has always been hobbled miserably in its effort to tell the stories of the characters it follows because of huge chunks of the film being edited out for a shorter running time. What astonishes me is that NO ONE on Amazon or the Internet Movie Database ever mentions this glaring problem.

Got a gripe with too much soap opera, and that eliminating schmaltz in favor of cool aerial footage is a good thing? Well, fine, but if you are going to introduce a big crowd of characters and follow them around for the first 2 hours of the picture, the least you can do is not whack a mangled ending on the film and not at least give some glimpse of what happened to them. And don't  have them suffering from the effects of five scenes chopped from the film and not expect the viewer to be confused and annoyed.

(What WAS all of that white dust all over Ian McShane, and where did it all suddenly disappear to in the next shot? And what's he doing in bed with Robert Shaw? Are they father and son? Lonely butch officers? And was his family killed - it's implied, but he doesn't seem to care and no one ever addresses it. And this is not an isolated incident of characters disappearing or doing seemingly confusing or unmotivated actions. It especially runs rampant through the last half hour of the film, at least in its US edit.)

After seeing the film again on TCM today, my frustration with this film all came back. Clearly, the dogfight and battle scenes were considered the major draw, and all of that character development malarky was considered superfluous. But no one has ever explained what was cut or whether it still exists anywhere. MGM seems to have hurt more than it helped with its DVD release, by cramming in music tracks that the producers rejected, changing title content, etc., but retaining the butchered running length.

Comes now Columbia Tri-Star with a new DVD version of the film, due in October 2005. The UK original length was 151 minutes. It was cut to 132 for its US release.

With no fanfare, this new version claims a running length of 176 minutes - a full 34 minutes longer than the one in common US release. And I have heard it rumored that the music track question is finally answered by having BOTH the rejected Walton soundtrack AND the superior Goodwin music on the disc as alternate tracks. Perhaps now, finally, after three and a half decades, we'll be able to see this incredible film in its entirety.