I picked this movie up at the video store, just on the strength of the two lead actors: the fabulous Don Cheadle ("Hotel Rwanda"), and Chiwetel Ejiofor (whom I loved as the cross-dressing footwear consultant in "Kinky Boots").  I'm amazed that I didn't see this picture in the theatres, and I can't figure out why.  Universal must not have given it a big publicity push or a wide release, which I think is unfortunate.  I certainly hope it does well on video.

This movie is a real flashback look back at the '60's and '70's.  The acting is wonderful - the two men play off each other very, very well.  One of them (Ejiofor with a totally believable accent - you'd never know he's a Brit) is an ambitious up-and-coming businessman, kind of a proto-yuppie from the Projects. The other (Cheadle) is an ex-con with a big mouth.  They grow together and grow apart through a tumultuous period in American (and especially Black American) history.

The look of this film is amazingly good.  The polyester print shirts with the big lapels, the brown-plaid-trousers-with-a-brown-jacket-suits, the pic'd out hair (Tamaji P. Henson sports an afro as large as Angela Davis').  Honestly, between her huge halo of hair and her chest-popping miniskirt outfits, she looks as though she has walked straight out of a black velvet painting.  There's a wonderful, wonderful sequence with Cheadle and Henson at home doing the watusi (or is that the slide? I forget). He is wearing day-glo blue underwear, and she is in bright orange hot pants (rememberhot pants?)  What a flashback fashion moment! It looked like so much fun that I almost got up and started dancing along myself.  But as someone who survived the '70's, I just had to shake my head in amazement and wonder where in the hell they got that crazy underwear.  Whoever did the costume work on this film had a whole lot of fun.

There are a lot of laughs in this picture but it's not a real "comedy", which may be why the studio didn't quite know how to market it.  There is a real bittersweet quality to the men's friendship toward the end, and the film does cover some very serious events (such as the riots surrounding the shooting of Marting Luther King, Jr.)

There's a lot of language - the usual "n" word, and a lot of "m-f" and so forth.  But that's the way these folks talked, so there you have it.  I have to say this picture was a wonderful surprise.