Finally, at long last this great cult classic has been re-released, this time on DVD. For decades, the movie was virtually impossible for fans and collectors to obtain except either as a rental tape or very rarely for purchase as a beat-up, ex-rental VHS tape (which typically sold for an exorbitant price if it could be found in that format at all). After languishing in movie distribution red tape literally for decades, it was finally slated for release on DVD in the fall of 2009 by Image Entertainment. Unfortunately, that release was scratched at the last minute because of some additional legal or distribution snafu.

Now, after the 2009 false start it's finally here for real, released in September, 2010 just in time for Halloween (this time by VCI Entertainment) and in a great new, spiffy-looking restoration on DVD. Originally released as a CBS made-for-TV movie in 1981, this movie is one of two which I consider to be quintessential Halloween movies (the other is the great 1978 movie,  "Halloween" by John Carpenter, which I think is in a class by itself and is probably now considered one of the top horror movies ever made).

"Dark Night of the Scarecrow" may not be quite up to the exceptional quality of "Halloween" but it doesn't miss it by all that much. While it wasn't written by Stephen King, it reminds me of some of his best works, such as "Christine" and "Salem's Lot" in form, style, plot and overall quality (but with less gore). Also, it has the look and feel of a story set in New England (where some of King's most spooky stories take place), even though it is actually set in the California country side, just north of Los Angeles. While the movie is great viewing at any time during the year, its spooky atmosphere (which is high on terror but mercifully light on gore) and harvest time theme make it perfect for viewing on or near Halloween.

I will leave the plot details to others. I find that too many plot details ahead of time tend to spoil the viewing pleasure of many movies for me and I am sure that many others feel the same. There are plot synopses available elsewhere on Amazon and also on movie sites for those who are interested. Suffice it for me to say that it is a story of intolerance, hate, stupidity and most of all, terror. The story gives new meaning to the term "payback is a bummer (insert your own word here)" and the fun is in watching it unfold.

The acting is great throughout. Larry Drake turns in a superb performance as a handicapped adult with the emotional age of about 8-9 yrs. It reminded me of Cliff Robertson's Oscar winning performance as a mentally retarded man in the movie "Charly". The veteran character actor Charles Durning is deliciously odious as the movie's villain, one who oozes detestability from every pore and earns the viewer's complete contempt.

The DVD itself contains a number of extras including optional commentary by the writer, J.D. Feigelson and the director, Frank De Felitta, either optional 5.1 surround sound or regular stereo sound, and optionally both Spanish and English subtitles. As I mentioned before, the print has been fully restored and looks absolutely terrific on DVD. It looks crisp and bright and I didn't find it lacking in any respect at all. Since the movie was originally made for TV, there is no widescreen version. It is of course only available in full screen.

Finally, those who appreciate fine movies owe their everlasting gratitude to those who labor to make hard to find movies such as this one available to the public. They make it a cause to restore and/or re-release these hidden gems which for one reason or another either never before made it to home video at all or were available at one time but were withdrawn because of distribution right problems. More and more of them are finally starting to make it to DVD as this welcome and overdue release proves. "Dark Night of the Scarecrow" is a terrific bargain, especially at current prices. Since one never knows how long any specific movie will remain in print and available these days (particularly ones such as this one with its history of extensive legal wrangling), grab it while you can.