The Killers - Live From Royal Albert Hall is an excellent concert video, revealing The Killers as brilliant musicians, both individually and in ensemble. Ronnie Vannucci's drums beat at the center of this astounding group like the steady heart of a seasoned jazz musician: always alive, always responsive to the band, always in perfectly chosen tempo. Dave Keuning, on guitars, is lightyears beyond the generalized strumming of most rock chord-players, speaking to us articulately and beautifully with his nimble fingers. On Bass, Mark Stoermer is powerful and elegant, never missing a step, or beat, and is vigilantly alert to his fellow musicians, always nuanced.

The group inspires total confidence, which is in no small part due to the astonishing talent of Brandon Flowers, a singer whose grasp of vocal possibility, both technically and creatively, is far beyond his years. His pastiche of power, nuance, simplicity, refinement, flawless technique, and elegance place him solidly in the pantheon of great singers. Did I mention power? At 28, he has a command of his instrument, and an insight into it's mysteries, that most advanced artists do not begin to approach before they are in their 40's. And like all the greatest musicians, he is always listening: watch him listen to the band, to his audience. Simply put, he is a phenomenon: delivering unbroken passion in perfect balance with his skill. Never missing a note or moment of connection, his attention is always with his audience, with giving them the best, and ALL of it. And they are ready and willing to take him up on his offer.

The concert DVD / Blu-ray is first rate, mostly due to The Killers all-around brilliant talent as performers and composers, Flowers' lyrics always interesting, always impressionistic and captivating. The audience of fans delivers what has come to be expected by Killers followers: total enthrall and open-hearted excitment. Killers fans are always smiling. And as this concert proves, so are The Killers. Seldom, if ever, have I seen a band (or solo performer) project such open-hearted enjoyment, pure joy, at making music. Flowers and Vannucci never stop smiling, and neither do we. This DVD is simply brilliant.