For a girl that doesn't watch baseball, this is still one of my all time favorite movies, and a DVD I simply had to have when I started collecting.
'A League of Their Own' is the true story of a woman's baseball team that was started during WW2 when all the men went overseas.  It's told from the perspective of Dottie (Geena Davis), a reluctant farmgirl whose husband is currently serving in the war. When the wisecracking baseball recruiter (played by Jon Lovitz, and he's brilliant!) shows up at her doorstep, Dottie originally says no, but her younger sister Kit (Lori Petty) coaxes her into going, and soon they're Rockford Peaches and playing ball.
Now, admittedly I'm not a big Madonna, Tom Hanks, or Geena Davis or even baseball fan.  But it's obvious their hearts were in this film, because it's acted perfectly and I couldn't improve on it at all.  Tom Hanks plays the drunken manager of the Peaches, and he pulls it off so well you question his sobriety in real life!  This movie is very heartwarming, definitely a feel-good and tearjerker (for the girls).  Guys may find this a bit too 'chick-flick' for their tastes, but parents will like it as a movie that encourages girls to be all that they can. It's a longish film, so be prepared for a good sit.
On to the DVD.  That's the *only* reason this movie lost that star for the rating.  First of all, the cover.  Madonna is on the cover, but those that are diehard Madonna fans will find that her part is not nearly as big in this movie as she's billed.  Rather, it follows Geena Davis's character (and thus her sister Kit), and it's Lori Petty who should have been on the cover instead of Madonna, simply in terms of who had the bigger role. Ah well.
Also, there are ZERO DVD extras. Zero. Zilch.  To make up for this, it's one of the most reasonably priced DVDs I've seen out there, and the picture quality is really great.
If you're looking for this movie to add to your DVD favorites, go ahead and buy it, but be aware that there's no extras.  If you're looking for it just to watch, you might consider the VHS version instead.