if a japanese production company re-made "Doom Generation" and it was directed by Satan himself, it would be Gozu.  this movie should come with a warning label: "danger - do not operate near pacemakers."  As an avid fan of bizarre/trash cinema, I can't believe that I was actually unprepared for this movie. From the disturbingly hilarious "yakuza attack dog" smashing at the opening of the film, to the gut wrenching, and wholly disturbing "man birthing" scene at its finale, I can say with certainty that neither I nor the 4 individuals (one of whom actually vomited during the birthing) had ever seen anything even remotely like this movie. the plot is so disjointed that halfway through the movie I just stopped following the subtitles. I'm not even going to try to explain character relationships... all you really need to know is that the guy in the trenchcoat is looking for his brother who he was driving to northern japan to get offed by fellow yakuza members. after that it's all a blur of self milking, violent behavior and something about glutinous rice.  I found it hard to believe that the most benign part of the movie is the cow-headed demon that graces the DVD's cover.  there's not an astounding amount I can say about this film that would make any sense at all, or be fit to be read by the general public. If you watch a lot of the more left field japanese movies, you'll be able to appreciate this film, just don't expect anything serious out of the cow-headed demon. all he does is slobber all over the main character's face... then it switches over to some bizarre sibling lust shot that I'm still trying to make sense of. additionally, if you have any knowledge of modern japanese culture, you'll be able to see the humor and bizarrity in the situations this movie creates for the main character... if you have no prior knowledge of japanese culture whatsoever, you might just spend the whole 2+ hours scratching your head and muttering profanity under your breath as you give yourself a migraine trying to sort everything out - unless you're one of the people who sites "Pink Flamingos" as your favorite movie, in which case you'll just get a kick out of everybody acting like a lunatic and doing inexplicable, and disgusting things. Any movie that can make "Love and a .45" and "Doom generation" look like "My Dog Skip" is OK in my book. this isn't the kind of film you rave about and tell your friends they should watch unless you have the kind of friendship where recommending movies that make angels cry isn't a relationship-killer.... On a personal note, after the end of the film I just coulden't look at the gravy ladle in my kitchen for a while without getting a little sick and thinking about corn (well... I THINK it was corn. I'm still not sure). watch this film on a partially empty stomach.