I recently had the opportunity to view the film I, Robot, or Short Circuit 3 as it has come to be known by the Ft. Collins cultural elite. Although this movie is set 30 years in the future, Detective Del Spooner's (Will Smith) jokes and witty antics keep with the times and never fail to elicit uproarious laughter. I guess phrases like "Oh, hell no" and "Now that's what I'm talkin' bout" are timeless comic masterpieces. Don't let the Fresh Prince's diction fool you, this movie pushes as many P.C. hot buttons as Michael Moore's Fahrenheit 9/11 and Mel Gibson's recent emotional masterpiece Lethal Weapon 4. I, Robot exemplifies a tried and true statement: when there are a lot of fancy robots in the future, all types of ill stuff will happen. Sure it's the same lesson we learned in The Terminator trilogy but let's face it, jokes and robots never really get old. The producers certainly did their homework in taking some ingredients from other popular sci-fi movies to complete their futuristic recipe for 100% action. A certain scene comes to mind when Will Smith must traverse a giant staircase, pure Ghostbusters. They might as well have suited him with a proton pack and warned him of the dire consequences that may arise by crossing the streams. I guess I can't argue with success. Does the film do its job? While I wasn't impressed very much -- and I am an avid fan of the Bad Boys films -- I have a good feeling that the younger crowd got the message loud and clear. As I was leaving the theater with a few friends, some teenagers in a futuristic looking Subaru yelled swear words at us and drove somewhat recklessly thereafter. (It should be noted that one of us looks strikingly similar to a robot.) They were obviously fired up by what they had just seen and had taken notes from a few of the car chase segments in the film. My fellow theater goers and I shook our heads and laughed: These kids today have no idea, one little fight and your mom may get scared, then you're moving with your auntsie and uncle to Bel-Air.

Grade C-, spend 7 dollars on one of those hats that make it look like there is an arrow through your head instead.