As Sid's OctoberGreatSuccess is more then half way through we decided to turn the evenings focus on to an old cult classic from 1989. This lackluster gem takes Sid back to a time with many favorable memories always adding in a little charm to a film that's really not all that great. For the stuffy film watcher Puppet Master's extreme low budget will come across as a joke and will be passed by with ease. For us it's one of the reasons we enjoyed it so much. We find a lot of enjoyment in the art of B and that's the reason Puppet Master is a four star event.

We start off many years ago in a hotel where puppet creator Andre Toulon awaits Nazi capture. He had come across an ancient Egyptian formula to create life, which he chose to use on his puppets, getting the Nazi's attention. Being that they could use his knowledge they go to get him, but he offs himself before they have the chance. Now flash forward 50 years with a group of horribly acted psychics who come across the old hotel and do a little investigating. What they don't realize is the puppets have been awakened and are ready to start picking them off one at a time. Our favorite out of the four would have to be Pinhead who has the strength of a true gym meatstick. He gained our respect by proving he could contest the Tall Man in the "backhand of the year" department when he puts the smack down on one of the female psychics. Good good, great stuff.

So for the film that put Full Moon on the map and kept Charles Band from a long career of dumpster diving, we have to say we did enjoy. The first half hour does move very slowly but heats up nicely once the puppets make their angry appearance. Now we know some killer puppets films like Magic and Child's Play came before but this one is a true pioneer to the more b side of the concept. Really there isn't much better then a bunch of half pint puppets chasing people around, much like a certain elf chasing a mullet sporting actress around with a pink turkey baster. You know what we mean? Well even if you don't it doesn't matter because the three cools cats know, they always know.