I really did not know what to expect when hitting play on Re-Cycle.  I was sitting down on a chilly afternoon with some tea and figured this would be a great movie to relax and cuddle up under a blanket.  What I found in Re-Cycle was one of the most astonishingly beautiful movies I have ever watched.  I truly wish I would have purchased this in Blu-Ray.

The beauty was mildly underplayed by a 'spirit/ghost' which takes focus within the first half of the movie.  The protagonist in the film is an author exploring her boundaries by drifting from romance novels to a darker, more haunting world.  Despite precautions that when writing about the subject she places herself in harms way to be subjected to ghosts and spirits.  She calmly revels in the idea of experiencing this.

This first part of the movie does this and focuses on the mild yet extremely effective ghost story surrounding the author.  The effects were done tastefully and subtly and therefor caught my interest immediately.  I prefer story-driven and character-driven suspense to power horror and Re-Cycle snatched me immediately by doing so.  As the spirits progressively become more prominent, the movie descends down into a vibrant and extravagant world of dismal fantasy.

Here, the visuals take precedence and captivate the viewer in surroundings that are breathtakingly beautiful and vast to regions that are dreadfully compelling and dark.  At no point did I ever want to look away from this film.  As the author progresses through this discarded world of remnants, we begin to learn about her, her guide and the world in which she finds herself.  While the stories are not overly twisted and confusing, there is enough intelligence to the film to satisfy just about all viewers.  I began to feel for the characters as their journey stretched farther and came to a close.

And when I thought the movie was done, leaving me with a positive, elegant and refined sense of beauty and wonderment, the film adds in one final scene that brings parts of the movie together and leaves you to question a bit about it, too.  I am so pleased with the ending as it did not leave the movie in a linear fashion where it is evident what happened, why it happened, and so on.  The ending allowed moderate interpretation which, for me, leaves it open for additional viewings.

This is not a horror movie, it is more fantasy than horror.  While watching the film, I got the feeling of a darker The Chronicles of Narnia mixed with a little bit of Ringu.

Overall, Re-Cycle was a great watch and trip.  The visuals are nothing shy of captivating and beautiful and I would recommend this movie to any potential buyers in Blu-Ray.  I look forward to watching this again with a friend and hearing their interpretation and level of appreciation for the visual worlds.