The review of A. Guidici just a couple before mine serves as a sad encapsulation of all of the garbage and misrepresentations thrown at Orson Welles over the years before AND after his death. The scope of his life's work is only now beginning to truly sink in. To say he did nothing worthy after Kane is to dismiss not just this film but The Magnificent Ambersons, which could have been better than Kane if RKO had lived up to their agreement and allowed him to finish its editing, and later masterpieces like F For Fake and Chimes at Midnight- and everything in between. Poor or unfinished? Give me a break. All of his films are worthy of mention alongside Citizen Kane. Do yourselves a favor and don't settle for the usual lazy, middlebrow entertainment journalism. The true story of his career is still coming to the light of day; read Orson Welles at Work, Discovering Orson Welles, This Is Orson Welles, Orson Welles: The Stories of His Life and other more fair-minded material, rather than the vindictive -and sex-obsessed- writings of people like David Thomson. Nothing is worse than a 'biographer' complaining about a supposed lazy, undisciplined artist who gets more accomplished in a single day than they will in an entire lifetime. Most directors don't stay up all night painting their own sets, only to be harangued for a lack of focus or fear of completion! And btw Guidici complains that Lady from Shanghai loses comprehensibility of dialogue even tho the studio cut out an hour, as if losing an hour of material is going to CLEAR UP plot! This is exactly the wrongheaded thinking that prompted many studios to take Orson's films away from him and have someone else edit them in an effort to make things more logical. This always has the opposite effect, as anyone with the most rudimentary understanding of filmmaking knows. I can only be grateful to him for continuing and getting as many films completed as possible, no matter the odds. Citizen Kane, The Magnificent Ambersons, The Stranger, Lady From Shanghai, MacBeth, Othello, Mr Arkadin, Touch of Evil, The Trial, Chimes at Midnight and F for Fake, among others...