As a lifelong Led Zeppelin fan, the proposition of an expanded and remastered Song Remains The Same was very exciting and of course I opted for this, the "collectors edition" rather than the standard DVD edition and that is where the problems started. First of all I should say that the remastered soundtrack is superb, much better than the original, also some of the extra's are entertaining but hardly essential. My first real disappointment however was with the additional songs; if you have the Led Zeppelin "DVD" then you pretty much have all the bonus music already and rather than include them in sequence as the band would have played them (as they have done on the audio soundtrack CD), they are just stuck on disc two in no particular order. Now we come to the package...APPALLING BEYOND BELIEF! Firstly the outer box is not even worth keeping, it's like a breakfast cereal carton, really thin. Inside there is a T-Shirt which is the poorest and cheapest quality shirt I've ever seen, it's not even made of cotton, it's some kind of synthetic hybrid which will no doubt last one wash. Now that we have removed the shirt, the DVD's are rolling around inside the breakfast cereal carton, pull them out and they are housed in another thin fold out affair that creases if you breath a little too heavily on it. The discs are accompanied by a handful of pointless postcards with poor quality stills from the film and imitation invites to premiere showings printed on them. To be honest I don't believe that Pagey knows anything about this release, as he is known for his quality control regarding Led Zeppelin's output and I would advise anyone wanting to buy the new version of the film just to get the regular packaged 2 disc set. If you are new to the band, ignore anybody who tells you that this film is self indulgent, these performances while not Zeppelin at their very best, are still a vital document of one of the greatest and most influential bands of all time. Musical content-10/10, this particular DVD package-0/10.