They say that sequels are always worse than the original, but this one is arguable.  "Aliens" is the sequel to the incredible masterpiece, "Alien," and what a sequel it is.  In terms of quality, these two can't realistically be compared, because the original film falls under the category of suspense/horror/sci-fi, whereas this film falls more under the category of action/sci-fi.  This sequel doesn't have the same feeling as the first one, but it is, without doubt, a superb action film.

Although it is expensive, this set contains both the original and the special editions, the latter of which is considered to be the definitive one, and a large number of special features to browse through.
The story line stays very true to the original, displaying excellently the frail and tormented mind of Ripley, who, upon being picked up 57 years after the events of "Alien," tells her story to "The Company" and, seeing as the ship, and the alien, have been destroyed, is regarded with disbelief and is stripped of her pilot's license.  However, Ripley learns from the executives that a human colony has been established on the planet with the alien ship (the planet now being called "LV-426"), and attempts to warn the executives, but her warnings fall on deaf ears.

Later on she is contacted by a member of the company who assisted her after she woke from deep sleep, and is told that contact was lost with the colony on LV-426, and that they are willing to reinstate her pilot's license if she accompanies them to investigate.  She refuses at first, but after having a recurring nightmare about the creature, she decides to go, on the promise that they will kill the alien(s), and not investigate and research it(them).

Upon arriving, the platoon accompanying Ripley and the man from the company investigate the colony and find the colony living sections ripped up, as if a huge battle had occured.  They find a girl in the air ducts who Ripley takes under her wing, and they set out for the colony generators where a life form was picked up on the sensors.  The macho macho marines go in and explore, only to have their ammo taken away from them due to the atomic sized explosion awaiting them if a bullet were to puncture the cooling ducts above them.  They find a colonist wrapped in some kind of gunk, whose chest explodes seconds after being discovered.  The marines fry the colonist up along with the newly born alien, and then, one marine detects movement all around him on his sensors, and it isn't his fellow marines...Then the action begins.

Along with firmly installing Ripley into the role of the first sci-fi heroine, it was also the first sci-fi film to garner a "best actress/actor" nomination at the oscars.  Although not as suspenseful as the original, "Aliens" loyaly continues the "Alien" story with commendations all around.