One of the best Opera Movies.
Oh sure Opera purists will quibble with the choice of Julia Migenes Johnson because she is not a "classic" Carmen.
But believe me, when she seduces Don Jose while she is being detained, I too was seduced.  In some other operatic productions on film the only way you could tell the leading lady was beautiful or seductive was because the characters told you, despite the obvious proof to the contrary.
In this beautifully shot film Carmen is not a ravishing beauty, if anything Micaela (Faith Esham, who is, by contrast, lovely and whose voice in both the duet with Don Jose and her solo later on, soars as high as the mountains in the background) is a doll.  She's a good girl and his mama's choice for his future.
Don Jose's career path is also set.  He's a good soldier and due for promotion.  Yet he'll throw it all away on a promise of Manzanilla and some hot lovin' and we believe it because Julia Johnson sells it.
The film portrays Carmen as a 21st Century woman stuck in a dusty backwater world, where strict formalities are mocked by the common folk (witness the children mocking the soldiers in the beginning).  She's not a slut, she's a playful flirt who doesn't recognize Jose's seriousness.
I can quibble with some things myself, for example the aforementioned duet between Jose and Micaela is shown in a long shot that feels like it goes on forever.  Give me a couple of close ups, please.  I understand their wanting to show the stiffness and formality (and distance?) between the two, but there's no need to bore us;  and there maybe too much dust swirling about as the peasants dance about, but you do get a sense of reality often missing in operas (or even movie musicals when shot on location, like West Side Story, though shot in Manhattan, where was the garbage?)
This movie works on the two levels it strives for.  The opera is wonderfully performed by both singers and orchestra.  The story is timeless and the plot easy to swallow.  Cinematography is top notch, and though the direction could have been more imaginative
this is more than a good opera movie, this is a good movie.