As I write this, there are two other customer reviews of CERTIFIED COPY. I love it that one gave it five stars and the other gave it one star. I believe those are the only two honest responses to it. Depending on your point of view, it's either a masterpiece or it's some sort of hoax.

A female character called "Her" in the credits (Juliette Binoche) finagles a meeting with James Miller (William Shimell), a British author who has written a book arguing that one's subjective response to art is what gives it value. It doesn't matter if the art is a forgery or an original or a Coca-Cola sign: if you respond to it, it's art. (I am doing a fair amount of damage to his theory for the sake of brevity.)

Binoche and the author go for a drive in Tuscany, having a sort of "first date" conversation. When they arrive at a cafe, Miller excuses himself to take a phone call outside. The waitress addresses Binoche, saying she can tell Miller is a "good husband." Instead of correcting her, Binoche plays along, inventing an elaborate history for her and her "husband." When Miller returns, Binoche fills him in on the details of their sham marriage. There seems to be a period when they both play at being married.

Then, the marriage becomes very real, indeed. Binoche becomes emotional at Miller's extended absences from her and their son. He defends himself, not very successfully. The remainder of the film is a domestic drama between two characters with an actual shared history.

It may be the most daring narrative pivot since Bill Pullman woke up as Balthazar Getty in <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001152TL6">Lost Highway</a>.

Back to the original point: is CERTIFIED COPY a masterpiece or a hoax? Well. It's a movie about art, and whether a forgery can have as much subjective value as an original. The film, then, is both original and forged. Which part is which? Does it matter?

(Well-played cameo by Jean-Claude Carri&egrave;re, best known as the co-screenwriter of Bunuel's four final films. He's the chap at the fountain who gives marital advice to Miller.)