The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada is my new favorite film. It takes place in West Texas and in Mexico. The landscape is rough, barren in places, yet indescribably beautiful.  The people resemble the land: they are not shiny and perfectly groomed, but rugged, worn down by life (as opposed to erosion).  They have been in the sun without SPF 50 and a protective L.L. Bean hat.  They don't go to the gym.  Beer is good.

Basic plot: Pete, a cowboy, kidnaps Mike, the shallow racist cop who has accidently killed Pete's friend, Melquiades.  Pete forces Mike to dig up Melquiades' body and live with that body and see the life of the man that he killed -- his room, his plate, his fork, his cup.  I love the premise that if you take a life you need to acknowledge that life.  Pete shows Mike:  This is where Melquiades lived, this is where he came from, this is what death smells like.  You caused this death, now you can breathe in the details, however unpleasant they might be.  I found this to be a profound statement about the value of life -- that we are individuals with stories and habits and places or people that we love.  And when you take a life, you take away more than just breath and heartbeat -- there are repercussions, there is suffering. In this film, there's no simplistic Eye for an Eye; instead the killer is forced to consider the life of his victim -- where the victim came from, what his dreams consisted of, and what he's changed into physically since that bullet entered his body.  Pete and Mike and Melquiades from this point take a journey to Mexico to bury Melquiades.  There is a lot of dark humor in this film, some surreal moments, great dialogue, gorgeous cinematography, wonderful colors and light.  Certain scenes played in my head long after the film ended.  A particular favorite takes place in a Mexican bar -- whiskey, a sunset, an open window, Mexican sci-fi on t.v., a little girl playing Chopin on a grimy-keyed piano.

The DVD is great, although in the "details" on Amazon it mentions as extras a film about Cannes and a Making Of short and a discussion between Jones and screenwriter Arriaga, but instead of those features there is a full-film commentary between Tommy Lee Jones, Dwight Yoakam, and January Jones.  I was cool with this, as I love commentaries where they take you thru the entire film.  This one started a little slow, same as when any group of people sit down and start talking, but got better and better as it went along, the actors becoming more relaxed, lots of great details and location info and nice little rambles about Roger Miller and Dwight Yoakam's fear of snakes.  I would recommend this film highly, as it's one of those flicks that barely played anywhere (I had to drive three hours to catch it at a theater)so a lot of people missed the year's best film.