WHAT IS HOLLYWOOD'S PROBLEM, ANYWAY? THIS IS THE GREATEST FILM EVER MADE. Okay, maybe I don't honestly believe that. Maybe "The Cable Guy" is a little bit better. Okay, maybe it's a toss-up. I can't decide. Oh, hell, never mind!

I guess what I'm getting at is I am damn sick and tired of listening to people rag this movie. I'm so sick of it, in fact, that I will outright lie through my teeth to people who dislike it and tell them that it is my favorite film, even though it really isn't. It isn't my favorite films of Arnold's by a long shot, but I still rank it in the top-ten. It isn't even one tenth as bad as they say it is. There were avid Schwarzenegger fans who actually came to loathe Arnold after he made this movie. Why, I ask? WHY? I DEMAND TO KNOW! Is it the acting? Is it the script? Is it the story and the premise? Special effects, car-chases, what? Okay, the acting is corny. I give you that. The story is far-fetched and the action is over-the-top. I give you that, too. But guess what, you stupid sh*ts? IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE THAT WAY! This film was intended as a social commentary. It is satire. It was intended to make fun of movies by example. It points out the most inherent flaw in all of cinema. Fantasy! That's right! It exposes the film industry for what it is. That is, a circus, a mad house, a rabid dog, a wild beast, a monolithic volcano of glamour, pretense, vanity, and and... AND just... shrill-shrieking-FRAUDS.

Okay, that's it then. I just answered my own question. The reason Hollywood holds such disdain for this film is simply because it does not like being the subject of such debates as morality and ethics. It's not like it is any big secret, though, that Hollywood is full of phonies, Satanists, (...)and demon worshipers. The world knew that years ago. It doesn't seem to hurt the grosses, though, does it? People keep seeing the movies. They keep watching television. They keep tuning into that political media circus that is the Oscars. Holly weird is clearly doing okay. So, why did this film scare them so? Don't ask me.

All I can tell you is that Arnold Schwarzeneger had to have a lot of balls to be in a movie like this. Especially when he was still a relative new comer to the acting profession and to America. But hey, it's just an action movie, and it's got a good plot.  Still, there seems to be no end to the contempt that film makers and critics have for Arnold. That isn't what pisses me off the most, though. What pisses me off the most is that the movie-going public could be so gullible and stupid as to accept whatever Hollywood tells them about a certain flick. Not critics, mind you. Nobody pays attention to critics anymore. Especially the stupid rich ones with their big thick books and their big thick mustaches. No, I'm talking about the entertainment industry, at large. Usually if every actor, every director, every producer, and every talk show personality gangs up on a certain individual, or a certain film and shouts at the top of their collective lungs "THIS PERSON'S WORK IS TERRIBLE. DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE," everyone believes them. What these people should be yelling is "WE ARE FEARFUL. WE ARE JELOUS. WE WANT TO SEE THIS PERSON FAIL"  That's all entertainment is about. It's about one artist stabbing another in the back. It's not about teamwork anymore. Usually if enough people in the profession denounce a certain person's work, the rest of the world will think "Well, gee! Everybody in Hollywood thinks this movie sucks. It must be true. Well, I'm not going to waste my money"

That is why this film bombed. Not because of its quality or lack thereof, but because of quantity. That is, quantity of people in the business who SAID it wasn't any good. And the so called fans just like the toadying bunch of impressionable troglodytes and knuckle-draggers that they are, fell for it. They stayed away from the film in masses. And what do you think happened? Well, the film flopped of course. It is Arnold Scwarzenegger's most daring attempt at artistic genius and nobody went to see the ****ing thing. Well, let me tell you something. I DID SEE THE FILM, AND I LIKED IT! AND I'M NOT ALONE! But I'm sick of being made to feel like a doofus any time I defend this flick. I am tired of people laughing at me when I tell them that I am an Arnold Schwarzenegger fan, or a Jim Carrey fan, or a Norm Macdonald fan, or a Stephen King fan. I'm sick of it, and I won't stand for it. If anybody here needs to feel ashamed it is YOU POEPLE! I don't care what anybody says. So, you can all kiss my a$$ and go to hell. I love this movie, and I'll KILL ANYBODY WHO TRIES TO CHANGE MY MIND.

That being said, buy this DVD. It's certainly cheap enough (unfortunately for Arnold).