I seen all the seasons of Everybody Loves Raymond, it was an amazing show.  When I looked at Ray, he reminds me of Eugene Levy's character Jim's Dad in American Pie to his kids.  I can definitely relate to Ray Romano and Ray Barone, he lived with his parents when he was 29 and I lived with my parents when I was 24 when I was in college. When Ray started Everybody Loves Raymond, nobody believe a show can go up to nine seasons.  The ratings were so high, it would gone up to ten or eleven seasons like Frasier or Cheers.  This show is compared to the King of Queens, Ray is like Doug Heffernan and Debra is like Carrie Heffernan.  Their are few people I admired in the show was Ray and Marie.  Ray is a nice guy, he's kind of the guy girls bring home to mom.  Ray Romano is a great actor, he looks like a MTV VJ Carson Daly and Freddie Prinze Jr.  Sarah Michelle Gellar can mistake him for his husband. Ray Romano reminds me of MTV VJ Carson Daly, Freddie Prinze Jr and The King of Queens Kevin James.  Marie is like the perfect mom and grandmother, even though she meddling in their kids life, but she meddles in their life out of love and she always understanding and always cool what happened to their kids and she always make her kids feel right at home.  Doris Roberts is a perfect mom and grandmother off the set in Everybody Loves Raymond. Doris Roberts is a wonderful actress, she should of won the oscar long time ago. She reminds me of Florence Henderson in the Brady Bunch and Marion Ross from Happy Days. Patrica Heaton was an excellent actress when she plays Ray's wife, she looks like his daughter then his wife. Patricia should have been in the 50 Most Beautiful People in People weekly.  Patricia Heaton looks like she was 19 or 20.  She has greatest resemblance of Actress Jennifer Love Hewitt and The OC's Rachel Blison.  Brad Garrett when he plays Robert, his character reminds me of Bruce Willis character John McClane in Die Hard movies.  Brad Garrett ever played John McClane in Die Hard he could have done it better than ever then Bruce Willis did.  Monica Horan played Amy she is a great actress, she should have been nominated for an Emmy for the rest of the cast.  Monica Horan has the greatest resemblance of Buffy the Vampire Slayer star Sarah Michelle Gellar.  If she ever played Buffy Summers in Buffy the Vampire Slayer she would played the character better than ever Sarah Michelle Gellar would.  Anybody can mistake her for Sarah Michelle Gellar and so could Sarah's husband Freddie Prinze Jr. Monica Horan should have been in the 50 Most Beautiful People in People weekly.  The show had a great nine years, I can't believe it would have gone that far before.  The whole cast did amazing job for making the show gone longer season than any other show I saw.  Everybody Loves Raymond is not a show, it's like a vacation that you never want to leave.