Considered by many to among the best foreign films ever to grace the Academy Awards. This movie consistently ranks in the highest categories of cinematic excellence. Crounching Tiger Hidden Dragon is a fantastic tale rich in story, beauty, and character.

Together, Chow Yun-Fat and Michelle Yeoh provide a terrific performance which focuses on love, honor, and devotion. The tale is both simple and complex. The story revolves around a sword called the Green Destiny. This weapon's strength is as well known as its owner: the great warrior Li Mu Bai (Chow Yun-Fat). When this sword is stolen by an anonymous skilled fighter, Li Mu Bai and Shu Lein (Michelle Yeoh) track down the thief only to discover that the rogue is actually the daughter of a high ranking Beijing official with a very unique past of her own. Overarching all of this is Li Mu Bai's quest to avenge his fallen master, killed at the hands of a wicked sorcerous named Jade Fox.

While the story does revolve around a sword: the Green Destiny, the focus is on the nature of power, the danger of reckless use of power, and the need for discipline to obtain true strength.

The cinematography sets a strong mood for the film with overtly fantastical martial arts that is both a joy to watch and is yet another way in which the film stresses it's main points. Points which are narrowed down fairly succintly in a quote by Li Mu Bai:

"No growth without assistance. No action without reaction. No desire without restraint"

A simply superb soundtrack overlays the film which is orchestrated by the great Yo Yo Mah. The music acts adds not only to the dramatic moments of the scene, but carries the viewer along during the more leisurely transitional moments of the film. I highly recommend not only the movie, but also this soundtrack.

I can not stress this enough: Buy this movie. The story is great, the environment is rich, the music is superb, and the acting is superb. You'll rarely find a gem that will shine brighter in your collection.