let me clarify my title a little. i'm a huge fan of the show and i own all 5 seasons on dvd and watch the new episodes religously every thursday night. up until season 6 i think every season of the office has its own charm and strong episodes especially seasons 3 & 4 which i believe are the strongest and near perfect. season 5 was really great but you could tell it was starting to lose its steam, especially the second half of the season. specifically starting with the episode that aired after the superbowl (fire drill). it seemed forced and like the writers were trying to cater to a larger audience via post superbowl viewers. it was like they saw the ratings for that episode and said "hey! we should start writing the episodes like this with more accessible/obvious humor cuz apparently people like it!" And that they did. the majority of the remaining episodes are great with some unforgetable moments (with michael starting his own paper company while pam gets promoted and ryan gets brought back) but it seems like the show was drifting off on a tangent toward the end and i felt like there was something "DIFFERENT" with the show. when i say "different", i mean i felt like i was being betrayed or someone was trying to pull a fast one on me (as weird as that sounds).

all in all, season 5 is not bad but really great (not exceptional) with some excellent episodes. just lacking compared to the past seasons.

NOW, HERE'S MY BEEF. it's with the currently airing season 6 (as of december 2009) of this once marvelous, unique series. i know this review is for season 5 but i feel strongly about voicing this and/or addressing the office fans like myself out there who read this. what has happened to the show in season 6? it's like its not even the same show anymore. the humor is not dry, awkward, passive, or subtle anymore! those four adjectives was what made this show (and the original british version) a classic and hailed best comedy series since seinfeld. the season 6 episodes (or the office version 2.0) the humor is obvious, accessible, easy to digest, obnoxious, annoying, and in your face. why did they change this about the show?! you could probably blame michael schur and greg daniels new series "parks and recreation" along with the superbowl episode for the shows lack of creativity and loss of spark. they both happened at about the same time the office took a turn.

Example: when i use to watch the office (most notably seasons 1-4) i would cringe and feel totally uncomfortable but in a very pleasing and rewarding way due to michaels scott/dwight schrutes oblivous nature and crude remarks and awkward situations. also, i would laugh histarically at the jim and dwight interactions and pranks. i also loved how pam was a very loveable, caring, warm person with a quick dry wit who always put a smile on anyones face and also kind of mysterious with how she always kept to herself and was very reserved in her thoughts and nature. starting at the end of season 5 and especially season 6 she is outspoken, loud, obnoxious (yes, i called sweet little pam obnoxious), cold, and even doing terrible, cheesy character voice impressions (like the ones michael does when he's trying to be funny). not to mention, she lashed out at michael and was borderline violent with him when she found out he was dating her mom. i understand the reasoning why she would be mad, but they over did it way too much and did not seem natural and unlike pam. it wasn't funny or believable. maybe this new side of pam is brought on by the pregnancy but i have a feeling this is her new character from now. now,

now i have a bone to pick with mr. dwight schrute. in the first 4 seasons of the show dwight was dependent on michael scott. he continously sucked up to him, bought him food, did laundry, did michael's dirty work for him, smelled his breath close up and he did all this with loyalty and passion for his boss who he looked up to as a mentor/friend (as scary as that is). in season 5 and especially season 6 dwight is now his own person. totally independent of michael and actually argues with him instead of agreeing with every single detail like an obediant dog. dwight seems like he's all out for himself and is ruthless to a point to where i sadly miss old dwight and his naiveity and oblivious. it seems like dwight "wisened up" too quickly for his own good and most importantly, HIS CHARACTER IS NOT FUNNY ANYMORE! what made dwight funny before was his naiveity towards jim and people in the office and how he would explain specifics and go in to great detail on any subject no matter how absurd it was. the "NEW" dwight is wise, sneaky, independent, overly competitive, and almost villian-like (like in comic books).

i could go on a lot longer about the other characters but dwight and pam are the two that have had total character facelifts. o yeah, and one thing about jim. his character is no longer fun loving and laidback. he is important, stern, outspoken and SERIOUS! yes, jim halpert who use to pull pranks is now serious. yes, yes, i understand he is now co-regional manager and with that comes new responsibilities and change of personality but it doesn't suit him well especially since his old self is beloved by fans.

now here is how everyone who reads this will respond. "series have to branch out and evolve." "characters have to grow as human beings do throughout life." "what do you expect, for them to keep making the same episode with the same jokes and characters, that's boring." >>>>>Okay, i understand these perceptions and i yes people evolve in real life and shows should to to keep interest and originality. if it can be done tastefully and clever than i'm all for it. i love growth and encourage character/show development. but this isn't what we're dealing with here folks. essentially, we are dealing with the shows growing popularity (ignorant superbowl) and the decision of the writers (or the people who green light these episodes) to water down the humor and make it easy to digest because i will state this like a fact: THE OFFICE DID NOT GET POPULAR BECAUSE THE EPISODES GOT BETTER. they just got more accessible to the mainstream, equaling more viewers. it is truly a sad thing to see happen.

not only are the characters becoming lackluster, the writing is becoming obviously worn out. when a shows writing becomes predictable and lazy, that's when its time to end it. the show has went on to long and i personally thought (as much as i love this show) they should of wrapped it up with season 5. they should resolved most of the relationships especially michaels love life and jim and pam married of course. IDEA FOR SERIES FINALE: visit dunder mifflin in say 5 years after jim and pim get married and see what everyone's up to and bring closure to the characters but leave some open-ended as well and reveal the fate of the company or maybe dunder mifflin is already gone and they all just meet at the old business lot where it use to be and have a cookout or something. great ideas right? make the episode bittersweet and finally reveal who is behind the camera. leave on a high note instead of dragging it out and squeezing all the juice you possible can out of it. if i was a writer of the show, that's how i would end it. now, tell me that's not a superb ending to a great series.

sorry for being critical but i needed to get this off my chest and see if anyone else feels this way about the new direction of the show. i would love to hear your thoughts about this...and no negative inappropriate remarks from the casual fan, i want to hear feedback from REAL office fans.

i will force myself to sit through the remaining new episodes as they come but only because i still have hope for the show. maybe season 7 will get back on track and the writers will come back (if in fact they did leave or write less now) and give this series a emaculant appropriate finale like it deserves. office fans, let's hope so.

thank you for reading.