I would like to talk toi you about what my impression was in regard to this movie. This movie talks about how many people in our actual society only look at outside qualities in each person when they try to find the perfect woman or man, they only search the outside beauty. They don not think about inside qualities that evyone has, like feelings, thoughts, intelligence, and honesty, which are the most important values in each human being. In addition, they only want to have a beatiful woman or a beautiful man.
In this movie you can see good and bad points. For instance, I can tell you that the most important point in this world is not the external beauty, rather the internal beauty just as Shall saw in Rossmery. Also, I can tell you one bad point that the human beings still have, it is to look at the physical aspect when we need to find our perfect partner.
In this movie Shall is trying to find his perfect woman who must be beautiful for outside, but he has not ever thought in the inside world that everyone has. On day, he found an important businessman who hypnotized him. At this time, Shall could see the inside beauty in everybody reflected in their outside body. Next, he found his perfect woman called Rossmery. In the begining she could not understand him because she knew that she was not a beautiful woman, but she decided to accept him. Then, they shared  many things  together, and they fell in love with eache other.
Then Shall's friend who could see the reality  went to the businessman's office and he explaned to him what has happened with Shall.  After that, Shall lost the hypnotism and he was able to see the reality. Then he did no talk to Rossmery and he turned her down. finally, he recognized his feeling and love for her, and ge decided to accept her just as she is. He searched her and they they lived happily ever after.
I think this movie has several topics very controversies inside our actual society with for instance, fatness, ugliness, beauty and inteligence. Also I think that our society is influenced for by different means of communications, which sell us the stereotype about the perfect woman or perfect man. In consequence, many people only search the outside beauty without looking inside each person.
I like this movie because it show that ouside beauty can be the reflection of our inside world. In conclusion, I think that the most important is what you believe about yourself  because these thoughts are shown in your outside body.