I have been a fan of the TMNT since the 1980's era cartoon, and am now a huge fan of the comic book as well, and in all my years on this Earth (30 to be exact!) I have never seen a compilation quite like this. Mind you I have not yet seen the movie in it's entirety but I have seen the online trailers, at which point I was totally psyched. Sadley though, it turned out that I had seen the trailers about three months to late as this is a TV movie and was no longer airing, so now I'll get a second chance to see it. But who can beat this, all three turtles universes coming together in one movie: the Mirage comic books, the 1980's cartoon and the 2003 cartoon (Four universes if you count the live action movies. Rahzar and Tokka anyone?). I guess there's only one thing left to say about this one: Cowabunga!!!
(Update-8/15/10) Okay, I've just seen the unedited version of the movie on the 4kidsTV website so now I can do a proper review. I repeat my word from above reguarding the movie itself, I felt like I'd gone back in time to my childhood when I saw the 1987 turtles in a new production for the first time in twenty three years (although now that I'm grown up I see that they were kind of annoying too), and as for the comic book turtles: grim, gritty, "less talk, more action", and with darkly toned voices to match, OH YES!! (Seeing them in each other's universes was interesting too, although also a bit weird). But reguarding the DVD release I have a different word: lame (pointing my thumb down). If Nickelodeon hasen't fixed this release by now then it's not even worth the above price reduction. I was hoping they would at least put the deleted scenes on as a bonus feature but they can't even do that. Listen up Nick because I know you read these things sometimes. You've always been my favorite children's network but have lost a lot of my respect since the start of the 2000's with these lesser quality shows that you're airing now (Spongebob and Penguins are the only ones that are currently worth watching), and even more so with the cancelation of Nick Rewind, (we can't finish collecting Pete & Pete and Amazon hasn't been helping to much with the current Nick Rewind), but now I'm really peeved. I've even reduced my above star rating from four to two. We all appreciate the fact that you want to release this movie to us, but it diserves a lot more respect, esspecially being the best turtles movie so far. So either release this movie properly (ie the full version, wide screen format, and with the real cover) or I'll disown you all together and give you a ninja drop kick you won't soon forget. Woah, I'm starting to sound like the 2003 and comic book versions of Raph. Man, that's cool.