I've reserved my review of Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince until now for several reasons.  I learned my lesson after first hating the Prisoner of Azkaban and then realizing it was the best of the Potter movie series after seeing it the second time. After three viewings of HFP, I still have some major issues with the altering of the plot but have discovered that it isn't as bad as I first thought when coming out of the movie theater.

Like most Potter fans who have read all the books, I sorely miss the subplots involving Fleur, Bill and Charlie, Tonks and Lupin.  I hate that Tonks wasn't the one to rescue Harry from the train.  I balked at the horrible destruction of the burrows.  I really wanted to see more Alan Rickman--you can never get enough of Alan Rickman.  I wished for more of Maggie Smith, but after realizing her battle with cancer during the filming, I give her props for her courage in going ahead.  Ms. Smith is a giant among actresses with a wonderful list of great films to her credit, but she will always be the one and only Professor McGonagall in my mind and no replacement would be possible.

My greatest beef was the anticlimactic ending--in the book, the fight going on with the death eaters and the Army of Dumbledore, along with death of Dumbledore was much more exciting and emotionally moving.  I sorely missed the grandeur of Dumbledore's funeral--which truly illustrated Dumbledore's greatness and how much he was loved by all creatures.  This was the biggest problem of all, along with the poor musical score (a sad rehashing of the last movie bits along with some forgettable fillers).  Please, oh please, pay John Williams anything he wants--beg him if you have to--to write the score for final two movies!

However, after my third time viewing the movie, I have to admit that the acting was better than ever, the dialogue was great, the chemistry between the actors has matured and solidified delightfully, the actor for Professor Slughorn was superior even to the character in the book, and Michael Gambon has finally filled the great shoes of Richard Harris.  The actors were the best part of the movie--perfect casting!

I give this movie three out of four stars after giving it a real chance and trying to overcome my personal objections to the huge changes from the book (which was simply amazing).  I'm sure in time many Potter fans who were disappointed with this chapter in the series will forgive these mistakes and accept it as it is--a valuable part of the Harry Potter series.