I share with the other reviewers the sense of enchantment that the movie casts on the audience; it's a feeling that only a few movies give you in a lifetime. I loved this movie so much, that I wished it to be perfect; it is not, and these are the 2 aspects that disturbed me a bit:

a) the depiction of Matteo's (one of the 2 brothers) character. Let's see: he is the first one rebelling against authority, by refusing to tell an university professor what the professor wants to hear, and missing graduation. Then, discovering that patients in a clinic are being given electroshocks, he attempts to liberate one (a girl), involving in the action his brother Nicola. The attempt collapses when the girl is detained by the police; so, what does Matteo do? he joins the Army, then the Police. The movie never tries to hint (we don't expect "explanations", just a hint) at a reason for his choice (we only see his growing frustration and anger). Of course, Matteo's choice makes excellent drama (brothers on opposite sides, etc); but the movie deserved better than a marketing reason.
b) about Nicola, the brother who becomes a doctor fighting on behalf of mental patients. He becomes increasingly convinced that  mentally ill patients can (after treatment) be released to normal life. This links perfectly with the previous episode (he and his brother trying to free that girl), and it is historically accurate (the rebellion against the barbaric "experiments"). Unfortunately, the real story is more complex than that: many Italian mental institutions used that theory to get rid of ill people, with disastrous effects. Why not to show that Nicola had illusions too (although certainly a lot more constructive than the ones of his wife and of his brother), and that life is always more complicated than our dreams?

Enough of criticism. Of all the great moments of the movie, I will mention these 3:
1) when Nicola comes back home early one day and finds his wife Giulia with a group of extremists (and catches the last part of a passionate "revolutionary" speech of one of them). Without one word, he takes his young daughter by hand to leave the house and, while passing in front of them (who stare in silence, frozen), he makes a parody of the speech, singing and dancing around his daughter. It is not that the parody is amusing, but its purpose that is beautiful: like Benigni in "La Vita e' bella", he wants to make his daughter believe that all what she has heard that afternoon is a kind of theatre. An extremely intelligent, and moving scene.
2) Giulia, in prison, receiving the books of music from her husband Nicola. She (who had loved playing music) begins to read the notes, and the music arises from the pages, cancelling for a moment everything else (I remember a similar scene in "Amadeus", when Mozart tunes out the noise of people shouting in his house, by just looking at the notes). Then, Giulia (probably thinking that this is a ploy to "weaken" her revolutionary resolve), suddenly closes the books (the music stops at once) and sends them back. Not one word is said. Great scene, intelligent, credible.
3) the moment when Matteo decides to quit. That hesitation about the shoes... extraordinary (in its apparent absurdity).

One immense plus of the movie: paying a tribute (via the sister of Nicola and Matteo, Adriana) to those courageous judges - Giovanni Falcone and others - and policemen who threatened for the first time in Italy the heart of the Mafia, and who were murdered in a major terrorist bomb attack (that blew 300 hundreds feet of a highway, killing the judge and all the police escort).
[A personal anecdote: I happened to be visiting Italy the day that Falcone was assassinated in May 1992; I still remember with incredulity that evening, when the main State-owned TV channel RAI-1 presented the usual idiotic show (scantily dressed girls, songs, games, etc): this, 4 hours after the massacre! "Panem et circenses" ("bread and shows"), said the Romans; it still works perfectly, 2000 years later]

One last observation: some viewers found a bit "cheesy" the ending moment with "the ghost". I confess that I found it deeply poetical; but perhaps, the classical education (Gods' messangers intervening in people's life...) drilled by school in us Italians played a hidden role in my brain.