It is really difficult to do this movie justice in a written review because it is such an amazing piece of work. While watching it I was reminded of so many other classic movies as it borrows from the likes of  Metropolis, Blade Runner, La Cite Des Enfants Perdus(City of Lost Children)  and the classic film noir movies of the 40's and 50's. It is also the kind  of movie which can be watched again and again and you will still find  something new in it every time. Visually it is brilliant and very detailed  and it is truly impressive how they can show a city submerged in eternal  night without it becoming monotonous or too dark to make out the bits and  pieces. The acting is also very good, with Kiefer Sutherland as my personal  favourite in a cast full of very capable actors. Both Rufus Sewell and  Jennifer Connelly are very acomplished actors and yet far from being  overused in movies as many of the best actors are, and this helps to make  the characters they play very believable. I particularly found Connellys  laid-back, almost lazy, approach to suit the movies mood perfectly. William  Hurt as Inspector Bumstead is definetly not far behind though, and does a  wonderful job as the lonely accordion-playing detective who knows his life  is missing something but can't put his finger on what it is.
New Line has  done a very good job with this dvd also, adding two commentary tracks, an  intereactive game as well as many other features like a comparison with  Metropolis and cast bios. I have just one objection to this movie and  unfortunatly it is a rather annoying one. At the beginning of the movie  there is a voice-over with Sutherland explaining a lot of stuff that would  have been better left to be discovered by the viewer as the movie  progressed. I really don't know why some directors/studios insist on  insulting the viewers intelligence by spoon-feeding them stuff like this,  but unfortunatly its something we've come to expect from Hollywood studios  over the years. Nevertheless, this movie is an incredible journey through  the heart, soul and mind of the Dark City and some of its inhabitants, and  is in my opinion the best movie of 1998.