Note: this review contains some spoilers.

Life Unexpected is set in Portland, Oregon and tells the story of sixteen-year-old year old girl Lux (played by Britt Robertson) and her journey to gain family and relationships. Lux has spent all of her life in foster care, moving from one foster home to another. She and best friend Natasha (also sixteen) are sick of foster care and are looking to get emancipated so that they can be independent and move in with their boyfriends. However, to get the ball rolling for herself Lux has to get signatures from both of her birth parents approving her emancipation. Lux tracks down her birth father Nathan `Baze' Bazile (played by Kristoffer Polaha) who runs a bar (and lives above it with two of his friends) and discovers that her birth mother is Cate Cassidy (played by Shiri Appleby of Roswell fame), co-presenter of radio station K-100's hit show Morning Madness alongside her boyfriend Ryan Thomas (played by Kerr Smith of Dawson's Creek fame). It transpires that Baze got Cate pregnant in high school (after senior prom) and Lux was the result. But at the time Baze was a self-absorbed young man and did nothing to support Cate. Cate then gave Lux up for adoption because she felt that she was too young to be a mother. When Lux now appears in Cate and Baze's lives 16 years later (they are now in their early thirties) Cate and Baze discover that Lux was never adopted because she had a hole in her heart when she was a baby which made her undesirable to prospective adopters. Hence Lux has spent her entire life in the foster care system, which Cate and Baze feel very guilty about. They want to do everything possible to help Lux's life get better so agree to sign the forms approving her emancipation and accompany her to the hearing in court. But when the day comes for the hearing, the judge does not approve Lux's emancipation and instead grants Cate and Lux joint custody of Lux. However Cate will be the primary caregiver due to the fact that she has a stable job and a house. And so Lux enters into her new `family'.

Much of season 1 concerns the dynamics of the fact that Lux's birth parents are not together. There is a love triangle: Cate is in a serious relationship with Ryan but may have feelings for Baze and vice versa. Meanwhile Ryan feels that Baze interferes in his and Cate's relationship and feels threatened, seeing Baze as a rival whilst Baze feels that Ryan is trying to take his place as Lux's father (indeed at one point Cate and Ryan conspire to try and shut Baze out of Lux's life). Meanwhile Lux is trying to fit into school and make friends, to try to be a `normal' teenager, to deal with drama with her boyfriend Bug and to adapt to her new parental (Cate and Baze) and step-parental (Ryan) relationships. There is also the largely painful story of Baze's relationship with his father.

Season 2's plotting is even more intricate: Lux enters into a secret and illegal relationship with her English teacher Eric Daniels (played by Shaun Sipos) who is seven years older than her and the outplaying of this relationship and its consequences drives much of the season. Other major plot strands are the sharp ups and downs in Cate and Ryan's young marriage (the wedding took place at the end of season 1) because they seem unable to be completely honest with each other, Baze going to work for his dad's financial company and him and his boss Emma Bradshaw (played by Emma Caulfield) falling in love with each other and the revelation that Lux was seriously and horrifically abused by one of her foster parents whilst she was still in foster care, an experience that affected her emotionally and neurologically. On top of this Cate and Ryan become custodians of Natasha (Lux's best friend) and in an act of benevolence get her her own flat. Meanwhile Baze's up and down relationship with his father continues.

Across the two seasons Life Unexpected was really good. My biggest complaint was that there were only two seasons and each one only had 13 episodes, meaning only 26 episodes in total. I would have liked to have seen this series run for years. My favourite character was possibly Baze due to his charisma, the way he bonded with his newly found teenage daughter Lux and the way he changed over the course of the two seasons. I was also fond of Cate Cassidy: a flawed but strangely endearing character. Ironically I found Lux the main protagonist often annoying, in fact, more often annoying than not. But bizarrely this didn't undermine Life Unexpected at all as the storytelling was just so solid and the characters and their interactions so compelling. Besides, you don't like everyone in real life! Ryan Thomas was also an excellent character and I found the telling of the story of the ups and downs of his and Cate's relationship and subsequently marriage one of the most absorbing things about the series. Nonetheless this was the story of Lux and her `family tree' (see the opening theme near the start of each episode) and running as a wonderful theme throughout the two series was the truth that no matter what Lux did (and she does a lot) or however much she tested and tried her parents (especially Cate) they would never let go of her because they loved her. I would have given this DVD box set five stars if not for a slightly contrived part of the ending of the final episode of season 2. But this is in truth a minor quibble as Life Unexpected makes for excellent and very rewarding viewing. You will be sad when it's over.