Fans of Highlander will not be disappointed in this DVD.  Here we have the two MacLeods, Duncan and Connor together, sharing so many aspects of their long lives with us.  We watch, in superbly done flashbacks, their early years together, the humor, intense and passionate love, loyalty, passion, ethical conundrums, betrayal and tragedy.  There is something for everyone - even humour,  amidst the heart-breaking angst. And the music is to die for. It is particularly pleasing to see another incredible MacLeod woman - Connor's Mother.
I found myself laughing and crying at various times throughout the movie.  There is no doubt that fans who have a deep knowledge of the Series will particularly enjoy this DVD.  But even new viewers will not be disappointed. 
This DVD will incorporate a number of scenes from the Workprint and this will flesh out the too short movie release.  It is a must for  those who have not been able to find another TV show or movie with the high production values, fascinating story concept, rounded characters, history, outstanding musical accompaniment, set design. clothes quality, sword and martial arts skill, tragedy, humor, farce, ethics, full-blooded eroticism, strong female and male characters - in short, Highlander: EndGamecontinues to deliver.
As an actor, Adrian Paul has always had a way of bringing out the best in those around him.  This certainly seems to be the case here, with Christophe Lambert turning in an outstanding performance as Connor - a man wracked with guilt and pain. Some of the most intense moments in the film are scenes where Connor says little, but his expression says it all and we feel our hearts breaking.  His love for his bonny Heather is one of the great love stories and spans centuries.  His recounting of how he once saw his Heather, cutting her hair in order to preserve a part of her for Connor that would never age was heart-wrenching.  It is the film's ability to keep posing these types of questions that delights.  What *would* it be like to have a gorgeous lover who never ages - who cannot die...and who loves you so intensely that he promises to watching you age and wither, to care for you and to love you until his own dying day?
Lisa Babuscia is another real find for me.  Her story was so tragic - so wasteful.  Indeed, there is so much that speaks of wasted opportunities, immature judgments that come back to haunt and to ultimately kill.
Adrian himself turns in an outstanding performance as the ravaged and distraught Duncan.  His continuing ability to work through the pain and the constant tragedy that surrounds him continues to inspire. Duncan's message is one of eternal hope for something better, that evil must be fought no matter the cost, and it is one that he never deviates from.  There are a number of scenes in particular where his performance is excellent - in particular, the rooftop scene with Connor, and a harrowing scene with Kate.
Whilst there was a little too much in the way of gore for my taste, I always enjoy a good sword fight and outstanding martial arts - and yes, the martial arts sequence with Donnie Yen, I am reliably informed,is shown at actual speed!  It is no technical trick - it really was that fast.  Again, full credit to Adrian and Donnie - and F. Braun Ashe who admits that he knew enough to simply get out of the way of these two and let them choreograph and do what they do so well.
'There can be only one!"  New viewers and long time fans will not be disappointed with this welcome addition to the Highlander universe.  We have followed the journey of Duncan MacLeod for over six years - this film offers further insights into how painful that continuing journey is, for Duncan himself and those who love him and those who aspire to capture his spirit and his soul.