Ok, here we go. Grab a snack cause I'm gonna be bashing on this movie for awhile. Ok, where do I begin? The movie was horrible. That took off. Now. When this came out, I was a hardcore Street Fighter fan (hell, I still am. Fighting games are my life)and when I looked up online to see the reviews, I heard nothing good at all. So I decided not to waste my money on going to the theatres. So then when it comes out for video, I rent it. And I was sad to say, those reviews were right. Let's begin on what they did wrong, shall we?

1. Jean Claude Van Damm - I used to be a big fan on Van Damm in his very successful movies like Bloodsport and Timecop. But recently, his movies were bad. And then they give him the roll as the American soilder, Guile. Now, firstly, Guile is American. Van Damm is French. Smart move there guys. Secondly, Guile wasn't even the main character in the game. It was Ryu and Ken. Thirdly, Van Damm hardly even looked like Guile. Van Damm had a crew cut in the movie while the real Guile has something like a flat top hairdo. And lastly, Guile was a captain. Not a clonial.

2. Storyline - The storyline wasn't not even close to the game's storyline. Ryu and Ken in the game, are martial artist who grew up together living in the same dojo with their master, Gouken. They train every day. In the movie, they're weapon dealers and are brothers. Wow, quite different. And also, I recall Ryu being somewhat like a Bruce Lee wannabe. I mean, he'd always ended up needing to take off his shirt and fight with only his pants on and even getting cuts on his chest by Vega (Balrog in Japan). Sagat is supposed to be a Muay Thai fighter known all over the world who lost to Ryu and was scarred by his Shoryuken. In the movie, Sagat is Ryu and Ken's dealer who ends up trying to kill Ryu and Ken cause he got screwed over by them. Chun Li in the game is an Interpol officer searching for M. Bison (Vega in Japan)cause he killed her father. In the movie, she's a news reporter...wow...anyway, Honda and Balrog/M. Bison are her crew in the movie. In the game, Honda is a Japanese Sumo wrestler. In the movie, he's some fat hawaiian camera man. Balrog/ Bison, in the game, is one of M. Bison/Vega's body guards and is a BAD GUY. In the movie, however, he's apart of Chun Li's news crew and is a GOOD GUY. Cammy, in the game, was once being controlled by Bison/Vega but gained her memory and is now apart of Red Delta. In the movie, she's Guile's lover (which I remember in the game, Guile has a wife and a daughter)and is apart of the army with Guile. I'm probably boring all of you to death from the horrific things of this movie.

3. Horrible fights - Street Fighter is mainly about fighting. Well, I hardly found any fighting in this movie. And the fighting that was in this movie stunk. And the saddest part of all....no special moves.....That's what made Street Fighter unique. Specials. But, where's the hadoukens? Shoryukens? Tatsumaki Senpukyakus? Sonic Booms? Nope. Nadah. Nothing at all.

Bottom line: Movie is horrible. Don't even bother trying to see this movie.