Okay, well-I guess it's my turn to add a few notes to those that have already reviewed the Criterion Collection's DVD Version of Byron Haskin's "Robinson Crusoe On Mars."

From the DVD Notes: "Robinson Crusoe on Mars is presented in its original Techniscope aspect ratio of 2.35:1. (And formated for 16X9 TV's too.) This new high-definition digital transfer was created on a Rank-Cintel Spirit 4K Datacine from the 35mm 2-perforation A/B interpositive struck from the original negative. Thousands of instances of dirt, debris, and scratches were removed using the MTI Digital Restoration System. To maintain optimal image quality through the compression process, the picture on this dual-layer DVD-9 was encoded at the highest-possible bit rate for the quantity of material included."

Boy, Is it ever!

I remember seeing this movie as a kid 'many moons' ago in a theatre, and I can tell you that in some instances, it is even better than I remember it. The colors and contrast/brightness of the film are 'spot-on', and of course, you can even discern a little film grain when the visual EFX are added, but it doesn't detract from the film itself.

As far as that part goes, it's *Absolutely Wonderful!*

As a side note, maybe the reason why the Criterion Collection hasn't committed to putting anything on High-Definition DVD's is because there is a format war still in progress, (I'm routing for the 'Blu-Ray' Camp, because the format can hold more information then HD-DVD, and therefore more extras.), but the good thing is that they already have the movies ready when the smoke clears, so I'm waiting right now....

As a matter of fact, Stanley Kubrick's classic "2001: A Space Odyssey" should be coming to Blu-Ray sometime fairly soon....so....

My only gripes about 'Robinson Crusoe On Mars' are a few small ones, and they are:

1: As I can recall from the few times that I had seen the movie on TV, and when I saw the movie in the theaters, there was a version that had a anamorphic border on the top and bottom of the screen that consisted of artwork such as the space station from 'Conquest Of Space', a delta-winged spaceship, some various rockets, and a deep sky blue background with stars. For some reason on the new transfer of the film, this film element was omitted, but now that I think about it--it isn't *exactly vital that it should be there,* It just seems a little odd to me that it is missing....

2: (From the DVD Notes): "The soundtrack was mastered at 24 bit (Better then Compact Disk Audio Quality.) from a 35mil. magnetic full coat (That's the entire surface of the film.) three track master, and audio restoration restoration tools were used to reduce pops, hiss, and crackle."

That would mean the three track sound rundown would be something like this:

1: Dialogue

2: Sound EFX

3: Music

So-what I'm getting at is--why didn't Criterion have Van Cleave's fantastic music score for the film on a *isolated* track? Sort of what Fox did for Jerry Goldsmith's score for 'Alien' on the DVD Box set. Even Paul Mantee mentions the music score at one time during the commentary track.

They missed out on that one....

Then to others that have put notes here:

R. Monteith: I agree about the cover art....it was more then a bit confusing when I saw it for the first time. Like you mentioned, I would have expected the artwork from the poster art from the film, or at the very least a montage of images taken from the movie like Paul Mantee in a close up wearing his suit-helmet, or Vic Lundin as 'Friday' when we see him for the first time. (Shrugs) I don't get it....

Anyway, I could have got the original 12 inch Laserdisc version had I had a player at the time, and bought the disk when it came out, but by that time, well--it sold out already, was getting to costly....the DVD was coming into it's own, and so I waited....

To Deaftom: Yes, there is a closed captioned track available....I was watching the movie with it on the other day while listening to the commentary track.

In Closing: All things considered however, 'Robinson Crusoe On Mars is (Still) one of my favorites (I'll go as far to typing that it's perhaps one of my 'guilty pleasures' sort of movies.), and to those that have never seen the movie before, you are in for a real treat! Okay, so the information that we had about the surface of Mars at the time is more then a little dated--remember this is back in 1964, but the underlying theme of the movie is still valid today.

Buy it 'tho...you'll like it. :)