Why don't they allow zero stars? Negative stars?

Ok, here's the plot : A few centuries ago , a band of interstellar hippies finds an uninhabited planet. They settle there, and over time, it becomes apparent that the planet possesses healing properties, which make the Baku essentially immortal and ever youthful. Others, inside and outside Starfleet, learn of this, and these people decide to remove the Baku unwittingly to an environment identical to that of "their" planet (the Baku are not native to this planet, remember?) but without the special properties. The planet the Baku are currently on would then be used as a giant hospital for the sick and suffering of the galaxy.

So there's the quandary : Should the Baku planet remain a private park for the 500-1000 or so interstellar hippies...or should it be used to cure the wounds and illnesses of uncounted sufferers throughout the universe, who cannot be helped by conventional means?

Naturally, Picard decides that the Baku should have the planet &lt;i&gt;alllllll &lt;/i&gt; to themselves, and tough luck to the rest of the galaxy. (So much for,"The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the one") He decides to beam down to the surface to help the Baku ward off the intruders (the more recent intruders, I should say, as the Baku are NOT indigenous to the healing planet.) And equally naturally, when the rest of the crew learns of his plans, they paste dour, determined looks on their faces and beam down too. 

I really, really hate this film, and I wholeheartedly agree with the reviewer who suggests this film as a feature for MST3K.

Discussing all the plot holes would be pointless, and I think those reading the negative reviews will garner that it's the smug selfrighteousness of the script and the characters which make this film so unbearable. So all just mention what I found the most annoying moment : When Picard's Baku squeeze, asked if she wouldn't like to see a bit more of the universe, says,"Where would hyperdrive take us except away from here?" in the most smug , 'nah nah,  I got mine' voice imaginable.

I really, really, really hate this film.
