This box of three films is the first in a series of a standard police detective procedural set in a Yorkshire city in the north of England. The Detective Superintendent is a Scotsman of working class background with Yorkshire inflections in his scottish accent. Dalziel is an old Scottish name, pronounced Dee-el, and the ignorance of the average Englishman to know this is a source of irritation to Dalziel. He is bulky, Bulldog-faced, and a blunt, outspoken almost bullying character. His detective sargeant is an average middle class fellow presumably from the south who is a university graduate and who speaks received prounciation (with no noticeable class or regional accent). He is polite, well-groomed and mild to the point of being underspoken. If this duo sounds a bit like Laurel & Hardy, I guess that would be fair.

So the scene is set for a series of the usual murders with the investigating police solving the whodunnit. The edge in the inevitable comparison against all the other series is obviously the inter-relationship between the two main characters. The first episode, in effect the pilot, works hard, and rather clumsily to establish the characters and overdoes it in a way that suggests this might be a first effort by the screenplay and script writer(s). Dalziel cannot really be so awfully uncouth and insensitive (I expected him to fart in church), nor his high IQ graduate sargeant so passive and accepting of the abuse (I expected him to raise his hand and ask, permission to speak, sir?). The regional dialects and accents are bewildering and if like me you are slightly hard of hearing you'll miss a lot. So we watch this with the English sub-titles on! That being said, the first episode is not bad, but it does suffer from working too hard.

The second episode works much better, although Dalziel is still working a bit hard at being the bullying oaf who scratches his backside and picks his nose. But it is the third episode that demonstrates that the writers and the actors have settled into the characters - in fact the characters have assumed their own lives and have taken over, much as Morse did, and Barnaby, and Frost. Dalziel is clearly the central figure, much more sensitive and intelligent than he seemed in the beginning. I guess Pascoe will gradually emerge as a key character as well, he and the series deserve it. The policy of having top quality actors in the roles of villains or central characters interfacing with Dalziel (as the Morse series did to very successful effect) is standard casting strategy, but does add a real quality dimension. The series needs it to keep a balance between the larger-than-life Detective Superintendent and his protagonists.

The series is very successful in the UK and has been running for more than six years so far. This first US-release set, containing only three (admittedly full-length) episodes, is probably out to test the North American market. I'd guess it is touch and go whether the producers of the US edition continue with converting the rest, but I do hope so. No doubt it will be a one-a-year policy and we'll all get frustrated waiting. If you're a fan of the British detective genre, you'll find this as good as they get - once you get past the initial character-establishing and learn to understand the way they talk! I rated it a four star because of these points, but I'm sure it will grow into another five star series.