This movie is about whether or not you believe in miracles.

The movie leads one to believe that Agnes, portrayed by Meg Tilly, has conceived a child by the Holy Spirit.  This is a miraculous event.  Mother Superior, played by Anne Bancroft, believes Agnes to be a saint touched by God for this reason and others.  Mother Superior tells Dr. Livingston, played by Jane Fonda as the court appointed psychiatrist, that she saw Agnes bleed from the palms of her hands. This is another miracle. Dr. Livingston contends that Agnes has somehow pschosomatically induced spontaneous bleeding because she thinks she is a delusional victim of church ideology.  Furthermore, Dr. Livingston insists that the birth of Agnes' child was simply caused by intimate relations with an undisclosed or unknown man.

A salient theme of this movie is that Dr. Livingston identifies with Agnes because she is guilty about having killed an infant as well.  Dr. Livingston's mother, played by Anne Pitoniak, reveals the fact that Dr. Livingston had an abortion in her youth.  Since conception is the beginning of life according to Catholic doctrine, this disturbs Dr. Livingston as she must rationalize her abortion as not being murder in order to live with her own conscience. Furthermore, because she identifies with Agnes, she must rationalize that Agnes is not guilty of murder either.

Jane Fonda, Anne Bancroft, and Meg Tilly all play outstanding roles in this film.  The supporting cast (e.g., Guy Hoffmann, Winston Rekert) was brilliant as well. This film has elements of a great movie such as humor, a message(s), gripping drama, suspense, and moving music.

The true beauty of the movie from my perspective is that I'm always left afterwards with feelings of serenity, tranquility, and a heightened belief in God.  The entire film has a mystical aura beginning with the whispered Latin prayers of cloistered nuns punctuated throughtout the remainder of the film by religious hymns within the confines of a convent set against the backdrop of peaceful, snowy landscapes.

Britt W. Barrett

Pater Noster, qui es in caelis, sanctificetur nomen tuum. Adveniat regnum tuum. Fiat voluntas tua, sicut in caelo et in terra. Panem nostrum quotidianum da nobis hodie, et dimitte nobis debita nostra sicut et nos dimittimus debitoribus nostris. Et ne nos inducas in tentationem, sed libera nos a malo. Amen.

  &Aacute;ve Mar&iacute;a, gr&aacute;tia pl&eacute;na, D&oacute;minus t&eacute;cum. Bened&iacute;cta tu in muli&eacute;ribus, et bened&iacute;ctus fr&uacute;ctus v&eacute;ntris t&uacute;i, I&eacute;sus.
  S&aacute;ncta Mar&iacute;a, M&aacute;ter D&eacute;i, &oacute;ra pro n&oacute;bis peccat&oacute;ribus, nunc et in h&oacute;ra m&oacute;rtis n&oacute;strae. &Aacute;men.

  Hail Mary, full of grace. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou amongst women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus.
  Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. Amen.

  Gloria Patri, et Filio, et Spiritui Sancto. Sicut erat in principio, et nunc, et semper, et in saecula saeculorum. Amen.

  In nomine Patrii, et Filii, et Spiritus Sancti.  Amen.