Back in around mid 1985 my father told me about this film that he saw on cable.  At the time I was 24 years old.  My father passed away a few months later.  I remember him telling me, "it was a very good movie that had that funny guy in it, but it was a serious movie".

I never did see this 1984 version.  Then on TV I saw the 1946 version and decided to get a copy of the Billy Murray edition.  I found the more recent film better than the 1946 original.  Especially since it was shot on location.

It seems this movie is having some sort of renaissance.  I see people giving this movie 5 stars, like myself, and saying its the best movie they ever saw and it changed their life.  While I wont go that far, I will say it is probably one of the most underrated movie you might ever see, since it was a box office bomb.  But it has been said in many reviews that a movie about enlightment and looking for the meaning of life, coming out in the 1980's decade of greed did not have an audience.  I agree with that.  Plus this movie just goes over a lot of people's head.  (Sort of like another movie which is also about your finding your soul and is more serious than it seems and that is the film, Joe vs the Volcano.)

If I saw this movie when I was 24 when my father told me to, I probably would not have appreciated it as much.  I think to appreciate to this film you have to some life experiences "under your belt".  I think this movie would attract anyone who has lost a close love one and/or someone who "saved" your life mentally, physically or spiritually.

I give it 5 stars.  Some parts especially early in the film, Murray goes act aloof and somewhat funny, but if you read the book that is how Larry Darell is. And Bill Murray in this movie walks around at times with a stare as if staring into space and not reacting  to incidents......but again read the book; perhaps its part of being shell shocked from the war.

A movie very worthy of seeing.  And look at the 1946 version, also good with two Oscars wins to compare.  And its beyond belief how Theresa Russell did not get a supporting actress nomination and how an Oscar nod for the score by Jack Nitzsche did not occur.  The score has to rank up their with some of the greats.

Now based on the high star reviews here and other movie review sites I have seen, its seem now its a much more appreciated film with the recognition that Bill Murray and every associated with the film, thought it should of had 28 years ago. See it!!