In my attempts to write reviews for Amazon, I have increasingly found myself trying to make concerted attempts to offer an opinion as unbiased as possible by my nostalgic feelings for the given album.  In some cases, this is very difficult, and using this standpoint makes me wary of reviewing albums that were influential in my youth.  I fear that many of my favorite albums by Rush, Yes, Tears for Fears, and Marillion may never see reviews because of my biased viewpoint.  However, this afternoon I was quite randomly inspired to briefly discuss why "Radio K.A.O.S.," despite its status as a possibly flawed project, is one of my favorite Roger Waters recordings.

In short, it is the singular Roger Waters solo album that sonically distances itself from Pink Floyd's generally identifiable aesthetic. I am particularly referring to the sound that Waters refined on "The Wall."  While "Radio K.A.O.S." still exhibits the conceptual rock-opera high-mindedness that exemplified his post-"Animals" work, it is indelibly marked by the recording practices of popular late `80s production.  This serves to distance Waters' work on "Radio K.A.O.S." from his traditional role as an artist borne of the late `60s and early `70s, perhaps to the chagrin of his longtime fans.

In addition, it is also the only recording by Waters in which he does not try to recast the roles of his fellow musicians in Floyd with hired guns.  Admittedly, Eric Clapton was great on "The Pros and Cons of Hitchhiking" and Jeff Beck is incomprehensibly expressive on "Amused to Death," it seems to me that their inclusion on these recordings is a deliberate attempt to recreate Floyd (particularly Gilmour's voice) with admittedly talented but ultimately hired musicians.  "Radio K.A.O.S."  is conspicuously naked of such references.  However, as a recording it manages to stand on its own due to the strength of Waters' vision.  This aspect of "Radio K.A.O.S." is particularly compelling in light of the fact that it was released at almost the same time as Floyd's relatively successful and similarly controversial "Delicate Sound of Thunder," as if he was trying to deliberately distance himself from Gilmour's Floyd.

Nevertheless, "Radio K.A.O.S." is, as previously stated, indelibly marked by the concerns that pervaded the music of classic progressive musicians in the `80s.  Both production and commercial issues saturate this recording, and these problems justify the negative arguments by the people who cannot identify with this era.  But, as a marginally countercultural person from this timeframe, I recognized Roger's voice within these issues and appreciated hearing his experienced voice within them.

Despite my admittedly nostalgic feelings, I think that Waters really exhibits a lot of musical strength on "Radio K.A.O.S."  It seemed like, for a fleeting second, he might have found his voice outside of the soundscape of Pink Floyd.  However, his other works indicate that "Radio K.A.O.S," is not a characteristic example of his overall vision.  Without an understanding of the political climate during what Americans now call the "Regan-era,' the contemporary consumer may not fully appreciate the statement that Waters was trying to make.

The Lowdown: There is a possibility that the present-day Waters fan may find "Radio K.A.O.S." relevant on a conceptual level, but Waters' desire to fit in the soundscape of the late `80's is both a boon and a bane.  One of his newer fans may not understand it, but to those of us that were there and understand its context, it has significant depth.