The basic premise of this movie is an extremely interesting one. Everyone who knows at least the essentials about God and the Devil in the Christian tradition will remember that a war arose in Heaven, precipitated by Lucifer's haughtiness and pride, and that it ended with the Son of Dawn being ousted from Heaven along with his legions of rebel Angels. This marred the state of the universe somewhat considering that as a result there henceforth was the Devil, Hell with its dark princes, and legions of demons to beset mankind in its existence, but at least it left  believers with the hope of a Heaven unified in God's grace. While these events are not directly featured in the movie, it proposes the notion that if there could be strife among God's Angels once, it might well have happened again, and that the implications of the renewed--or continued--war in Heaven are of the gravest possible nature for mortal man. This is indeed a grandiose and immensely fascinating yarn, and I think you don't have to be a Christian (devout or otherwise) to appreciate the idea of such high metaphysical drama. Alas, it is all wasted. I don't wish to give away too much more of the plot for the benefit of those who would like to see for themselves what this movie is all about, but suffice it to say that the ambitious idea is squandered in petty--albeit quite graphically violent--skirmishes over a rather bizarre pursuit  (which, as it is, refuses to entirely make sense to me) on the part of the celestial players. The story works well with the (to the extent of my knowledge very biblical) notion that an Angel might very well be a truly terrifying creature to encounter, but that's about it for the inspiration of holy awe. The final confrontation between the human protagonist and the heavenly antagonist (yes, indeed) is essentially a ridiculous brawl.
Two things, however, are truly delightful about this movie: the performances of Eric Stoltz, who plays his angelical part with a cool, subdued elegance that at the same time conveys immense warmth (how does he do it?), and that of Christopher Walken, who is given a dreamboat of a character for him to fully play out his capacity for the delectably perverse. If you like any or both of these actors for their particular strengths, the weaknesses of the plot will probably be outweighed  for you by their performances--at least for one or two viewings. Two of the stars I think this movie deserves go to them.