Ok I grew up with this movie, meaning I can't remember a time when I did NOT know this movie. The people who talk about racism, I had to stop and read to even know what they were talking about!
For one thing, the song Roustabouts? The people were all black? I for one couldn't tell, it was nighttime and everything was dark! I never thought they were all black. And the lyrics in the song are racist and demeaning? I don't know about you but to this day I can barely tell what they're saying! The lyrics always seemed quite garbled and unintelligible to me. I always just thought it was a cool-sounding song that went along to the beat of them hammering in the tent stakes. I hardly think any child is going to hear this song and pick up a racist attitude. I certainly didn't, and I was not an unintelligent child. 
And as for the crows, I NEVER connected them with black people when I was a child. They were CROWS. I remember thinking that they were musicians, but I never stared at the screen and thought, "Oh, those crows are supposed to be like black people! Black people all smoke cigars and wear striped shirts!" I think people are reading too far into it and assuming too much about the connections their children will make. Children will not view cartoons with a racist attitude, especially if it is animals and not people that are being depicted.
Dumbo has some wonderful lessons in it. The film is certainly not PRO animal cruelty, it is most obviously against it. Children viewing it will learn to treat animals kindly because it shows them with feelings and emotions. Poor little Dumbo crying after his mother is taken away never fails to choke me up. The scenes of Dumbo's mother being whipped and locked up are heart-wrenching, but I think children need to be exposed to things like that. Life is hard and without a concept of how difficult life can be, how will they ever grow up with any sense of reality? 
The sequence where Timothy brings Dumbo to visit his mother in her cage is so touching, I cannot watch it without getting tears in my eyes, and movies rarely make me cry. Just thinking about it makes me misty. It would make anyone appreciate having a loving mother. 
Dumbo is a great movie for children, it is loaded with morals and important life lessons and I can't imagine why anyone would not want to let their child view it.