This is pertinent to the unrated, uncensored, uncut version.  So be warned.  Yes, it is raw and it could have an x rating but life is raw.  The eroticism is a necessary and vital component and it surely is erotic.  i call it 5 stars even though the critical review i read by the video guide I read gave it 2.5 stars.  No doubt that was a review of a rated version, done for American tastes.  That reviewer called it confusing.  That tells me he missed the boat.  But I know that often pro critics don't really watch a movie that attentively and often misjudge a movie based on prior conceptions of what they think they will see when they watch it.  This movie is a complete package.  It gets better and better as it goes and it is complex.

I called it "surprising" because  everybody expects a movie with raw sex to be weak on story and weak on acting.  Not so here.  The acting is top rate, across the board!  Critics seem to project their own visions onto  movies they look at.  If it doesn't match what they expect, it gets lower ratings.  They should look at a movie like this sufficient times so they get it.  For this movie if you don't get it at first view you need to see it again and pay attention the second time.  It is deep and real and honest.  I have not seen a rated version and I think if they  cut the sex out then they  also castrate the movie, (which is typical when a movie comes out of Hollywood, since American audiences might shun a movie with too much sex in it and hence less profitable).  (Violence is treated more kindly than sex and isn't that a shame).  But fortunately this movie was Julio Medem's movie and was an international smashing success.  If you are opposed to censorship then you'll probably find it worthwhile.  If you don't find it worthwhile - try a second viewing.  It does have surprises in it the first time you see it.  It could be debated that if the sex was toned down it would still have been great, but I don't see it that way.  It's true to the script the way it is.

Details about the plot of this movie take away from the viewing so I won't give away any of the story.  The script presupposes a thinking audience.