Dumbo is a classic that most of us saw as kids and have fond memories of as adults.  Yes the movie is great and this review is not so much about the Movie a it is about this version of the Movie being sold!  So, with that out of the way I'll move on to what I dislike about this product.

INTRO

This pack as it notes comes with both the Blu-Ray and DVD Copies of the Movie and that is pretty much as expected, no faults there but this package has a few surprises that I'm going to focus on as these comments are in no way limited to just this product as there are many the feature these same flaws.

DVD

The DVD is pretty much the same version you would get if you just bought the DVD alone and there's no markings of any kind to differentiate it from past copies of the DVD.  The image quality is what you would expect from such an old movie and that's okay if you're just looking for Dumbo the Animated Classic to show your kids.  You know, there's really not a whole lot more to say about this.

BLU-RAY

The Blu-Ray version is where all my issues are pretty much found.  You see, we purchased this 2 disc version for our Grandson expecting a better over all experience but that's not what Disney presented.  They used higher resolution scans of the original film but really didn't do anything to improve upon them!  Sure they cleaned up the sound, changed the menus and added a few special features but, is that really why we buy Blu-Ray versions of these classics?  No!

Look, Disney makes a killing on these movies every time they re-release them or put them on moratorium and everytime they're marketed in some way to convey special new must have features!  Why waste all this time on marketing and screwing your customers over?  Why not just give them what they really want?

Seriously, Disney should spend the money and completely convert the images into 3D Digitally Generated Graphics?  Why is it that these classics will be long passed over by future generations because they're showing their age?  Even more, why are we expected to pay $20+ for a copy of a movie that is marginally better than their previous releases?

CONCLUSION

Don't buy the Blu-ray version, you don't get wide-screen format, cleaner frames, better color or anything you would expect from a High Definition Experience!  Again, I've seen other companies do this but with Animated Classics there's no excuse as you can enhance and use the same sound track over layed on the new graphics and still keep the same classic feel.