Do you remember the first time you saw "It's a Wonderful Life"? The ideal setting for the first viewing would be on the same night that Jimmy Stewart found the enlightenment that would save his livelihood: A frost-cracked Christmas Eve night. Fifty-some years later, Stewart and co-star Donna Reed are resurrected every year on the night we wait for Santa to come. Will we be watching Jim Carrey's third dramatic work "The Majestic" on NBC some Saturday night half a century from now? Not a small town chance, probably because it got chewed up to its bare bones by 57% of critics. But the movies must be at least momentarily compared, not because they are on the same cinematic level (for they certainly aren't) but because Frank Capra's vision of the intended heroic America is so strongly present. 
A viewer may find it difficult to pinpoint exactly which of the two co-plots the film wishes to put more of an emphasis on. One paints a likely rosy picture of rural America still sweating from the Great Depression and the loss of, I believe, 17 boys in the Second World War who were raised in the town. The other is a candid statement against bureaucracy in its worst form, that of pushing a citizen to openly lie under oath to escape devastating charges. But the film makes quick work of the confusion by tying both together with the fundamental theme of doing the right thing, even in the face of extraordinary professional and personal loss.
"The Majestic" shows only three flaws, but one is wiped out by the virtue priorly expressed as so important in modern American citizenship. The dialogue Jim Carrey is compelled to use is reduced to a cliche fest, with countless romantic utterings that don't advance the harmless love scenes. The movie extends to over two and a half hours, and I can't help but think that one of them could have been shaved off to still accomplish an important movie. The third may be the sentimentality, which, in a period other then the one we are faced with now in our volatile world, may appear sickening. But the end that the annoying means achieve is one of importance to anyone who wishes to take their rights of citizenship seriously so that we may benefit from the strongest society possible: One that uses its political tools to build a system of honesty and an absence of deceit, morals for which blood is spilled.