I suppose I should start off by saying I am a closet romantic if my wife new I was writing this review (not so much a review as we all know what its about but more what I take from the story) she would definitely have a good laugh. I will be the first to admit the tears rolled during the final scenes of this movie even though I new the ending had a foregone conclusion. The first time I saw it I couldn't bear to watch it again as the lovelorn Almasy asks to die to escape his grief. After more than a decade I gave it another go yes the same old punch in the stomach was there at the end but this time I was able to appreciate the story more.

The movie's principal theme has been routinely described as "romantic" but you can not fail to notice the style of a classical tragedy which centers around the relationship and ultimate deaths of the three characters involved in the m&eacute;nage a trois (Almasy, Katherine and Geoffrey).

There have been many negative comments that it was nothing more than a tale of disgusting adultery by stereotypical upper class British aristocrats that centered on the lustful desires of the two utterly unlikable main characters. Personally I saw it differently. Was there adultery? Yes. Was it fair to the husband? No. Yet if they were weak in succumbing to their desires was he not as equally guilty in his murder/suicide bid. Which would be classified as the greater sin?

The two main characters have also been negatively reviewed as shallow and self centered and utterly unlikable and that they were never in love.

In one of the many dramatic scenes Katherine slaps Almasy hard in anger through sheer desperation at her own need for him, even as she comes to him for the first time, dressed in white, presenting herself as his true though not legal bride who needs him more than she can bear. She hates and loves him at the same time; is ecstatically happy and miserably unhappy at the same time as she confesses to him, fully aware of what is happening to her, yet unable and ultimately unwilling to resist it.

In the beginning Almasy treats Katherine with cool indifference yet behind this mask his eyes begin to give away the passion that is beginning to build within him. The penetrating stare he gives Katherine at Shepeards Hotel as they dance the foxtrot is loaded with sexual tension so much so that Katherine cannot hold it but looks away and demurely looks back a second time.

Many people ask did Katherine and Almasy love each other the answer is proven by Almasy's three day trek across the desert to save her which tragically fails, his return to the cave to fulfill his promise to take her home to be buried in England even though he knew she was dead. When he tells Katherine as they lie together in his room "that here you are a different wife" is obviously a guarded reference that he wishes to possess her even though he knows legally she cannot be his wife, yet he still claims a part of her as his own, foregoing his own abhorrence of ownership. One of the most painful moments of the movie is when he demands; "dance with me, I want to touch you, I want the things that are mine, that belong to me" you cannot fail to feel the anguish of their love for each other. The thimble he gives her at the Cairo market is a classical symbol of love and togetherness forever, yet tragically he never utters the words I love you that are symbolic of so many love stories. Yet in this story the need for such sentiments is dramatically unnecessary as Fiennes and Scott Thomas have an onscreen chemistry not seen since Rhett and Scarlet captured our hearts in another war/romance/epic.

Many viewers were also unable to understand the attraction between Almasy and Katherine which was blithely discounted as pure lust. To label it such shows a complete disregard by some viewers for the intricacies of the acting and the script.

Who was Almasy; this man who tells Madox "There is no God," who states and enacts the fact he does not want to be owned by anyone that he wants to be in control of his own destiny and seems unwilling to believe that he can succumb to the greater force of love. That only insures that he will fall so much the harder for resisting and denying it.

By loving Almasy, Katherine also violates her own choice to stay, in effect, spiritually a virgin: by having married her best friend from childhood rather than anyone who would cause her pain, she had made a conscious decision to shun passion. We get an insightful glimpse of Katherine when Geoffrey states; "she was always crying on my shoulder about someone I finally convinced her to settle for my shoulder stroke of genius really". That was what Katherine did she settled she gave up on love as much as Almasy shunned it

Their need for each other, for love was eventually much greater than there ability to resist it which overshadowed for them all the other horrible consequences of their affair. As Amasy states; "The rest meant nothing to me" his reference that his promise to comeback was all the was important to him. Generally in life we do not choose who we love, I like to think love chooses us and in this respect Almasy and Katherine were doomed from the start.

This is a movie you will not fully appreciate on the first, second or even third viewing as there are so many; intricacies, facial expressions and symbolistic subjects intertwined into the story. eg ( Look for the shadow of a cross on Almasys face as they plan their liaison during the Christmas party symbolic of their sin on a religious festivity). (When in the cave with the injured Katherine he promises to come back for her that he will never leave her he leaves his Herodotus with her his only true possession to symbolize the fact he will return). Hope I have pushed you in the right direction.

Enjoy.