*Note* **There is actually more that goes with this review on my blog since I saw an advance screening of Lawless in the beginning of August and met the author of the book this movie is based on, Matt Bondurant. Matt's grandfather is Jack Bondurant (played by Shia LaBeouf) and Howard and Forrest were his granduncles. To read my full post on meeting Matt and getting to talk to him about how his family saga got turned into a movie, do a google search for The Muses Circle, click on Movie Reviews, and scroll down to Lawless.**

I absolutely have nothing negative to say about Lawless. Some critics have complained that while the acting was top notch, the story itself was derivative. Are there elements of the plot that we've seen in other films before? Yes. But does is straight up copy another movie? No. But let's get it straight. The point of Lawless was never to give us something we've completely never seen before. Come on, this is not the Matrix. Hillcoat's vision was to give us a twist on the gangster genre, give us something a little less conventional. So while there were elements that felt familiar, there were also scenes that you just didn't expect; scenes that perhaps you expected to go one way, but ended up playing out completely different. I have a couple scenes in mind but I don't want to spoil anything.

In my opinion, Nick Cave did a great job with the script and the soundtrack. I liked Jack's bits of narration throughout the film. The movie was well paced-- my mind never wandered nor did I feel bored. So if some of you are hesitating to see Lawless because you're worried that the action or scenes of violence are far and wide between, you have nothing to worry about. Cave is more known as a song writer and composer then he is for writing scripts. So I had a feeling the soundtrack was going to be interesting. It was a breath of fresh air. Instead of going with the traditional sound of straight up blue grass, country music (remember this movie is part western, part gangsteresque), he somehow mixed in some new with some old.

Now to the outstanding cast of Lawless. You may disagree with everything I've said so far, but one thing that cannot be denied is the amazing acting in this film, even for those who have less screen time. I'll be the first to admit I am not a Shia LaBeouf fan. Walking into this movie, I thought I was going to have to just ignore him and pray the other actors would be able to carry him. While I still won't be the first person lined up to see his next movie, I have to give credit where credit is due: Shia LaBeouf can act. From his southern drawl to his convincing performance as a boy that still hasn't quite transitioned into manhood, I think he did a great job playing Jack Bondurant.

Jason Clarke who portrays the eldest brother in the Bondurant clan Howard, was a bit overshadowed by other performances, but I won't soon forget those eyes. They are eyes that have seen things that no man should ever have the burden of seeing and it's no surprise why he drowns himself in moonshine. The way Clarke was able to sometimes appear "tuned out" out was impressive.

Gary Oldman as gangster Floyd Banner was electrifying, but shorter then expected. It's one of those cases where Hollywood uses an actor's name to draw people into the film, but they aren't actually in the majority of it.

Jessica Chastain is a great actress so I wasn't surprised by her solid, strong female performance as Maggie. I loved how she could walk into a room and instantly remind the rough-around-the-edges Bondurant boys of their manners in the presence of a lady. The other lady in the movie, Mia Wasikowska, who plays Bertha (Jack's love interest) was as perfect as always. She is young but can hang with the heavyweights as she has proven in previous performances in Jane Eyre and Albert Nobbs.

If you are looking for a villain you will hate as much as the characters do in the film, then you will love Guy Pearce's spin on Special Deputy Rake. Pearce is probably one of the most underrated but brilliant actors around and I am glad that the part went to him since Rake as a character is quite interesting. He's from the city, wears perfume, appears to look the part of a gentlemen but we soon realize underneath the nice clothes, coifed hair, and girly smell, there's something not quite...right. Like the gloves he wears and the naked African American girl in his room that he has sitting on newspapers on top of his bed. Yeah...check it out, you will see what I mean.

I think the character that I least expected to connect with was Cricket and the credit has to go to Dane DeHaan. I kept thinking he was the younger version of Leonardo DeCaprio and I don't know why but his performance in Lawless reminded me of DeCaprio as Arnie in What's Eating Gilbert Grape. The physical likeness of the two is uncanny. I can't wait to see DeHaan evolve over time.

Okay, so I had to save the best for last. I promise to keep my praise of this next actor as short as possible since there are really no words that can fully describe his performance. You just need to see it. Tom Hardy was compelling as Forrest Bondurant, the middle brother and the head of the family. I read somewhere that the director John Hillcoat was "awestruck" by Hardy's performance. I think I was awestruck when I saw Hardy as Bane in The Dark Knight Rises, but let me say this: I don't need any more proof, he is a phenomenal actor. Any actor that can wear a Mr. Rogers' cardigan and remain sexy, masculine, and still be the baddest dude on screen is just amazing. Hardy always makes Forrest appear relaxed, yet intense. His mannerisms such as the way he walks, talks is a pleasure to watch. Forrest is the glue that keeps everything in his world together and I am not just talking about his importance as the businessman in the family. Forrest has to keep a watchful eye on his older brother Howard who can fly off the handle in a second, who can at times appear tuned out and sometimes wonder if it is all from the moonshine or from the horrors he saw at war. Then on the other end is young Jack, his baby brother that he knows isn't quite cut out for the lifestyle but knowing and trying to convince the youngest in the Bondurant family are two different beasts. I'm not saying Forrest couldn't have been played by another actor, but Tom Hardy brought something special to the character that could never be replicated.

I think John Hillcoat has succeeded in his goal. He has given us a western/gangster flick that feels familiar yet still maintains its freshness. If you're looking for a film with a solid story, great acting, with nicely paced bursts of violence, look no further. Lawless has arrived. But let us not give all the credit to Hollywood for there would be no movie without Matt Bondurant and his novelization of his grandfather and granduncle's legend sized escapades. I read somewhere that Matt Bondurant's one regret was that he never spent enough time with his grandfather as so often happens with young people. That maybe writing Wettest County in the World was his way to honor the memory of the man he knew and the man he wished he had had the time to get to know. Don't worry, Matt. Grandpa Jack would be proud.

Mia @ themusescircle.blogspot.com