Poor editing?  Difficult to follow?

This film is not the most extraordinary piece of filmmaking to appear, but the idea that it's a hack job or a excrutiatingly boring is to reveal your own desperate attempts to avoid some straightforward and disturbing claims that the film makes.  The film accomplishes what it sets out to quite well.  It portrays Karl Rove as a meglomaniac of frightening proportions.  So maybe you have reasons to disagree, but if you are going to question the veracity of the film, at least give us some reasonable evidence for doing so.  Comments like "it's a bunch of lies" reek of a fifth-grader's attempt at debate:  "I don't want it to be true, so it's not".

Let's take the case of the South Carolina primary in 2000.  McCain is posing a serious threat to Bush's chance at nomination until this key contest.  That's not so surprising since he's pro-choice and for campaign finance reform and is attracting tradtionally Democratic voters who are uninspired by the Gore candidacy.  Not only in the film but still available in newspaper reports of the time is the fact that McCain's sanity is questioned, and he is accused of fathering one of his children with a black prostitute (in fact he and his wife adopted a girl from Bangladesh).  Phone banks spread the word and flyers are left on the windshields of cars in church parking lots.  A man who avoided any significant service in Vietnam does not directly endorse, but never makes any significant effort to discredit the rumors.  Why?  Because winning at all costs, ethics be damned is the mantra of his chief adviser, Karl Rove.

What is revealing in the film is that key Republican opponents speak about the unrestrained truth-twisting that Mr. Rove has engaged in throughout his political career.  So the Republicans end up with a nominee who has been up to that point in his life a big nothing: a failure in business and a second-rate dilettante.  They pick him over a man who was a Vietnam war veteran and an experienced senator.  There is no getting around this.  No reasonable person could claim that Bush was the right choice over John McCain.  Unless of course the facts were skewed and the election toyed with.

In that South Carolina primary there were several reports that 21 districts never opened the polls.  Districts in minority-heavy areas that no doubt would have favored McCain.  McCain called for an investigation, but nothing came of it.  The accusations of widespread voter fraud don't even start here (they go all the way back to Rove's college days and his association with the GOP) according to the film, but claims that Florida was rigged in the subsequent presidential election and that the Ohio and Florida results of 2004 are suspicious are clearly not isolated incidents in the career of Karl Rove.  It is his modus operandi.  This serious and frightening trend of smear campaigning coupled with election manipulation, if true, and there is real evidence in both the film but more importantly in documented accounts of Rove's career that it is should not be swept under the carpet.  There is absolutely nothing wrong with the country choosing George W. Bush as president if he is chosen on his merits by a majority of voters.

When, however, there is the possibility that he became president through lies and fraud, Republicans, Democrats, and indeed all Americans should be appalled at a political process that has degenerated into an ultimate-fighting death-match, right or wrong be damned.  "We can do anything we need to to win because ultimately we're fighting for what is right."  I am both sickened and terrified that some people believe that this is the path we should be taking.

I am also confused as to why asking the questions has apparently become a crime in and of itself.