(NOTE: This review discusses my impressions of the film; I'm assuming that the specifics of plot and development will be handled elsehwere.)

Please believe me when I say that I'm not saying this in order to be snide; it's merely an observation. The explanation is most simply explained this way: THE TRUMAN SHOW was a movie with Jim Carrey in it; THE MASK is a Jim Carrey movie. This show, LEMONY SNICKET'S etc etc, is a Jim Carrey movie.

This is not to say that the film is bad. The cinematography was lovely, and the actors playing the children are indeed luminaries; after all, it takes a helluva lot to be able to share the screen with a personality and presence as large as Mr. Carrey's, and when he's intentionally (and to good effect) going WAAAAY over the top...! The writing of the film was intelligent, with good dialog, and some wonderful wordplay. Further, Billy Connelly and Meryl Streep were absolutely brilliant. The cherry on top was the cameo by Dustin Hoffman as a theater critic -- wonderfully outrageous.

So why only three stars? Because Carrey was allowed to take a little too much of the screen. Mr. Carrey is a talented and capable actor, as seen in TRUMAN SHOW, MAJESTIC, and other such works. When he's allowed to go completely over the top, out the door, down the Interstate, and back up the Old Straight Track... yes, it can be fun, and it can also be tiring. I can't help feeling that, if he'd been reigned in just one or two notches, and he'd been allowed to go crazy only a few times instead of every time, the film would have shone of its own brilliance rather than from the blinding magnesium flare of Carrey's exuberant performance.

At the risk of sounding like I'm a salesman for Amazon, I can recommend the Thomas Newman soundtrack -- particularly the final cut, "Drive Away," heard during the end credits. The highly imaginative animated sequence, combined with this singularly wonderful piece of music, is worth the price of admission. I suspect I'll purchase the DVD simply so I can watch the end credits over and over again.

Overall, the film is very much worth seeing. It's perhaps greedy of me to say that I wish it were just a little bit more worth seeing. Kudos to all, and a note to director Brad Silberling: With a brilliance like Mr. Carrey to work with, less is truly more.