I have read the (unabridged) Count of Monte Christo book at least 4 times and can quote many of the scenes and dialogue. However I am not a literalist when it comes to Hollywood, because movies are not a literary medium. The best we can hope is that Hollywood captures the essence of the book, which I believe the makers of the Count of Monte Christo have done - and done very well.  While I agree that it is not a faithful retelling of Dumas' original, it is a fine film that captures the heart of Dumas' message: Vengeance is, (and should be) the Lord's. 
Ultimately, Dumas' novel was about the ravages of revenge, both to the avenger and to his victims. Director Kevin Reynolds and screenwriter Jay Wolpert's celluloid rendition captures that message in a way that is both entertaining and beautiful. Unlike many Hollywood films these days, this one has charm and heart, which allowed me (an avid movie buff) to overlook its occasional imperfections. 
Jim Caviezal plays the tortured Count with aplomb. His metamorphosis from guileless youth into the brooding, devilish Count is convincing. No small feat considering young and old Dant&egrave;s are polar opposites. 
Guy Pearce plays the treacherous libertine, Mondego, with a light, foppish touch, making the character all the more frightening. His lines are the best in the film, vicious and manipulative, but delivered with sardonic self-composure.  
Richard Harris was the right choice for the Abb&eacute; Faria. During Dant&egrave;s' bleak imprisonment, Harris lightens the screen with his earnest optimism and sharp wit. He is more animated than in his recent role as Dumbledore in Harry Potter, even fencing with Caviezal, despite his advanced age. 
Dagmara Dominczyk is lovely as Mercedes, but of course lacks the vapid self-immolation of the character in the novel. Hollywood loves tidy endings so she is reunited with Dant&egrave;s while the Persian princess, Haidee, (Dant&egrave;s' real paramour at the end of the novel) is not in the film.  Still, Dominczyk's elegant grace is winning, despite the weepy dialogue she is sapped with. She and Caviezal are what movie stars should look like. 
Luis Guzm&aacute;n is fun as the Count's dutiful sidekick, Jacopo. Not surprisingly, he is the film's comic relief and acts as a bridge between our generation and Napoleonic France. His lines are more modern slang than classical prose, but it works, especially with Guzm&aacute;n's East L.A. lilt. 
Reynold's and Wolpert had no easy task - adapting one of the world's favorite stories to the Big Screen.  Of course, the novel is a much more complex and philosophical work than the film, and that is to be expected. A true adaptation would likely be 4-5 hours long. And, yes, they have taken liberties with the book - the ending especially. Still, the movie stands on its own as a stirring and inspiring tale of treachery, romance, revenge, and repentance. It is one of my favorite movies ever, and that's saying something, since I hate almost everything. Buy it. You won't be disappointed.