Futurama is one of the best shows ever, and one of the funniest and all-around greatest I've ever seen, it has more heart and is less obnoxiously self-aware than Family Guy.

Unfortunately, this is the last Futurama volume, which is quite sad. It was cancelled before its time and that still rankles.

So, I bid a fond farewell to this intelligent and hilarious show, perhaps too good before its time for some, but this last volume is full of reasons how and why it was such a wonderful show.

Kif Gets Knocked Up A Notch - 8/10. I like this episode more than a lot of people, it's very funny (Evil Lincoln is a good subject on the commentary), the baby shower, the Dr. Bones character, and of course Kif and Zapp. All great stuff.

Leela's Homeworld - 8/10. A touching episode where Leela finally learns her origins. Nice montage at the end, too.

Love And Rocket - 8/10. One of the better Bender episodes, this episode is very well done, with some good parodies, especially 2001. The whole trip to the Romanticorp Headquarters is bizarre and hilarious ("My two favorite things are commitment and changing myself"). It stays good and funny with the delivery of chalky candy hearts to Omicron Perseii 8 and the ship's computer (voiced excellently by Sigourney Weaver) going crazy.

Less Than Hero - 10/10. Damn, I love this episode. The part in the credits where Bender opens and closes his door to show off his "super powers" always cracks me up, and the Justice Team theme is AWESOME.

A Taste Of Freedom - 6/10. This episode is okay, it carries a pretty heavy-handed message (an important one, but still heavy-handed), but the jokes are still pretty good.

Bender Should Not Be Allowed On TV - 6/10. Somewhat weak. It has a lot of Calculon, and Calculon is hilarious, Maurice LaMarche is amazing. I like the scene with Calculon and the grilling pirate captain. This episode still falls a little flat, but the rendition of Black Flag's "TV Party" is pretty good.

Jurassic Bark - 10/10. So sad! What an emotionally wrenching episode. That ending is just too much.

Crimes Of The Hot - 5/10. Not one of my favorites. Best line: "Let the games begin!"

Teenage Mutant Leela's Hurdles - 10/10. Excellent, one of my top 5 favorite episodes. The ending is a gorgeous scene.

Why Of Fry - 8/10. Not so big on this one, as others. Good but not spectacular.

Where No Fan Has Gone Before - 10/10. Hilarious, the best Star Trek parody ever.

The Sting - 10/10. Maybe my favorite Futurama episode of all time, chock full of classic scenes. It's got great action with the space bees adventure, really good effects, and some great emotion. The Professor in particular has some great lines.

Bend Her - 6/10. It's got Calculon and a good wedding scene at the end. That counts for something.

Obsoletely Fabulous - 4/10. Not very good at all.

Farnsworth Paradox - 9/10. A fan favorite, but I wouldn't call it a Top 10 episode.

Spanish Fry - 5/10. Kind of lame.

The Devil's Hands Are Idle Playthings - 10/10. A sweet ending to the show. Oh yeah, it's funny too and features the return of the Robot Devil.

All in all, this is a great volume of Futurama. Better than the first one, nearly as good as third, but heck, all of Futurama is brilliant. I'll really miss this show, it had some of the finest moments I've ever seen on TV.