A friend told me I would hate this movie. "It was supposed to be funny," she said, "but it was just awful. The character that Drew Barrymore plays is just a horrible, horrible mother."
And it's true. Bev Donofrio, the main character played by Barrymore and the woman who penned the memoirs behind this movie, is not a "good" mother. She's a real mother, who approaches much of her life from the same self-absorbed perspective that she had when she was 15 and became pregnant. She's dramatic, possessed of a sense of self-importance and smugness that would never put her in running for Mother of the Year. She has said horrible, heartless things to her baby boy and instilled him with the sense that his arrival ruined his mother's life. And yet she was able to raise him, build her life, and evolve-at least a smidge-into a better person.
When children take on the role of adult in the parent-child relationship, the responsibilities of caregiving become blurred. That dynamic is at the heart of this film. Jason, Bev's son, recognizes early on that he has to take the burden of responsibility in their relationship. Bev is a teenager for the first five years of his life, locked into a marriage with the man who knocked her up. He's a sweet, charming, drug-using dunce who doesn't understand or support Bev's strident desire to get an education and change her life. Bev chose to marry him because of pressure from her own father, who rejects her for her mistakes and who is largely unable to show his love for her. She recreates the same relationship with her son, not realizing until the end of the movie that she has done so.
But through it all, Bev remains a force of nature. She stumbled along in her self-absorbed way, but learned enough about how to see other people that she could understand her effect on the lives of others. The movie isn't so much about becoming the perfect mother, but more about finding a sense of self-acceptance and clarity, and sharing that enveloping sense of acceptance with the people who need to know you love them. It's comedic, dramatic, and scalding-a truthful, well-acted story of mothers, sons, fathers and daughters. I didn't hate this movie, as my friend predicted. I admire it and respect its honesty, and would recommend it to anyone who has come to the stunning realization that their parents are not only people, but people who are growing and evolving alongside their children.