....Just because I thought the music in this movie was phenomenal, and there was a pretty good concept to the film overall.

This movie is being marketed as a summer scary/thriller film and I felt it couldn't have been farther from that idea. There were a few moments where M. Night's signature directing style came into effect and mere sounds played a factor into the "scary" parts of the movie...but what there weren't an overwhelming number of scary scenes at all. This movie should be taken for what it is...an interesting concept that makes you think quite a bit at the end.

Having enjoyed both the "Sixth Sense" and "Signs" I felt a bit disappointed after this film, however if you try not to compare them with the others, then it's not all that bad. I was expecting a bit more, mostly from the previews as well as recognizing M. Night's ability to put a significance into EVERYTHING that goes on the film. I felt that was missing a bit from this movie. In the Sixth sense, you get this overall feeling that everything you are seeing has a specific meaning, and at the end, you realize that it does...whereas in this movie, it isn't the same really. Don't get me wrong, the clues are all there, it's just not that much of a suspense, in my opinion.

The movie's good points: Great choice of filming location...the sets and costuming are all realistic and well designed. The essence of the time depicted in the film is there, as are the characters/actors. I particularly enjoyed Bryce Dallas Howard's debut (daughter of Ron Howard). Her performance in this film is both profound and moving...I have no doubt it will catapult her into a broader spectrum of acting. Joaquin Phoenix (who is a large part of the reason I also went to see this film) had another major role, but I felt as though M. Night could have let him shine a bit more....nonetheless a very good performance by him. Adrien Brody's roll is also meaningful and well acted, though not a large roll. Be sure to watch for a cameo by M. Night himself...he's hard to notice because it goes by quite fast if you don't catch on right away, but he's there. Other good points: the music and the overall concept.

Bad points:  The monsters...when you see this film you will know what I mean. With all the talent and creativity, could they not have come up with more realistic/scary looking monsters? Aside from that, there are a few parts of the movie that once you see them, after the film is over, you will begin to think "well, now how was that possible?" or "well, that isn't very realistic" but overall, these aren't thoughts that dominate over the movie. Once again, this depends on how critical of a moviegoer you are, however. lol

Many reviewers have noted the disappointment in it not being scary...and well, now you have been warned. Also, people have complained that there are infinite plot-holes in this movie. I disagree with this thought...I thought the movie fell into sequence quite well and played through the 120 minutes just fine. I did not see any MAJOR problems with the storyline.

Overall, 4 stars because I think the movie was good. Not GREAT, but good. Not scary, that's for sure, unless you're the extremely skittish type. Interesting idea, great music, good actors, and somewhat of a message at the end that makes you think. My advice is to go to this movie with no expectations whatsoever, just take it for what it is. Hope you enjoy it!