For years and years I've heard about this movie, how great and romantic it is. So when I saw it was on my local cable companies free on demand TCM movie channel I decided to take two hours and watch it. I now thank my lucky stars I did not buy this movie.

Don't get me wrong. I love and am a huge fan of romantic movies. But this movie? I feel I must be missing something or have watched a different version of the movie than most people have seen.

Where exactly is the chemistry between Gary Grant and Deborah Kerr? I didn't notice any real chemistry between them during the entire movie. The dialogue between them didn't inspire any passion that I could see. Then there were all the other items in this movie that made my go UGH. My first cringe was the dinner scene on the boat and the other passengers laughing. Come on, this would never happen. People might stare for sure, but to break out in such laughter? Then there is Terry McKay's long suffering boyfriend Ken Bradley. What man is going to keep hanging on like this? Ken had the looks (for the time the movie was made) and his character apparently had money, so why would any guy in his right mind keep hanging on and waiting around for a woman who is in love with someone else? Ken needed to grow a backbone (among other things) and tell Terry to push off. Don't even get me started with Nickie's fiancee Lois Clark. Personally I can't see Nickie's character blowing off all that money for someone he thinks he loves and whom he just met. Come on, this just isn't how things work in the real world.

Then there are the other really annoying parts of the movie itself. Can you say "Treacle Children's Choir"? To sit through the first scene with them was bad enough, but two scene's? The second scene in Terry's apartment is beyond watching so I hit the fast forward button double quick. Plus does anyone notice in the first scene when the children sing only the two black children come down in front and dance? OMG! I guess this was acceptable for the time the movie was made, but now? (By the way, I'm caucasion and this part of the movie really bothered me)

The only part of the movie that showed any promise is when Nickie see's the painting on the wall of Terry's bedroom. At this one point in the movie you can see some real emotion come through on the face of Mr. Grant.

Like I said I'm glad I didn't buy this movie and it certainly is a mystery to me on what makes it "one of the most romantic movies of all time". Personally I wish the movie script had been thrown overboard.