What is it about this movie that makes it so compelling?  After countless viewings, I still can't put my finger on it -- but let's consider the crucial elements of "Condor."
First, the paucity of dialogue -- in other words, what Redford displays and emotes rather than says -- is powerful.  It seems that for the first time in his career, Redford is really challenged to act instead of being just another pretty cinematic face.  If ever a man could give the impression of being both haunted and hunted, Redford's a cinch in "Condor."
This is also a great New York City film.  Its streets, back alleys, and buildings -- in particular, the World Trade Center -- all play supporting roles.  Sidney Pollack makes good use of the then-newly finished twin towers in "Condor," and this viewer lamented their destruction after watching scenes featuring the main lobby and a top-floor office inhabited by CIA deputy director Cliff Robertson.
The grainy quality of the film, matched with an often funky, sometimes melancholy soundtrack scored by Dave Grusin, also adds to the aura of "Condor."  It's as if Pollack attempted to do an American sendup of a French intrigue film.  Grusin's music also is not what you'd expect in a spy film, in that it has not a hint of the James Bond sound.  Then again, the film is not a romantic spy thriller, so it works.
In fact, Pollack and Redford successfuly convey a post-Watergate paranoia that the citizens' government is 'out there' and will stop at nothing to hunt down the truth-seeking rogue.  Phone taps and plumbers (disguised, this time, as mailmen) abound.  Suitably, "Three Days of the Condor" ends with a very anti-establishment message.
This film deserves to be placed in the list of top twenty great American films of the modern cinematic era (however one judges that).  "Condor" is good the first time around and seems to be more enjoyable with subsequent viewings.  Far from being a period piece, it stands the test of time as a thriller that is also thoughtful.