Stagecoach  The movie Stagecoach was the first of many westerns that John Wayne and John Ford would do together. The movie was received well by the public when released by Warner Bros. in 1939. And Stagecoach was to be the movie that put John Wayne on his way to Western Movie immortality. Stagecoach also proved to be a directorial  masterpiece  orchestrated by the great John Ford , who would later make such great movies as  The Searchers ,  She Wore A Yellow Ribbon, and The Alamo. As awards go, Stagecoach was nominated for several Academy Awards including Best picture, Best Art Direction, Best Director , Best Score, Best Supporting Actor. But Stagecoach  came away with only two Academy Awards. The first was Best Supporting Actor, which was won by Thomas Mitchell for his role as  Doc Boone. The second award, was for Best Score, was won by John M. Leopold, Leo Shuken, and Richard Hageman. Other notable awards were the New York Film Circle Award  for Best Picture, the National Board of Review of Motion Picture Award for 10 Best Films in 1939, and John Ford won the New York Film Critics Circle Award for Best Direction in 1939.  The movie Stagecoach is set in New Mexico during the early 1870's. The movie begins with Doc Boone (Thomas Mitchell) and Dallas (Claire Trevor) being driven out of town due to their sketchy background, mainly alcohol and prostitution, by a local women's group. So both are forced to leave town on the next stagecoach which is being driven by Buck Rickabaugh (Andy Devine). Also along for the ride are Henry Gatewood (Berton Churchill), a crooked banker trying to get out of town; Samuel Peacock (Donald Meek) ,who is a whiskey salesman; Lucy Mallory (Louise Platt), who is going to meet up with her husband who is an cavalry officer in  Lordsburg; Hatfield (John Carradine), who is a local gambler who goes to pursue Lucy Mallory; and Sheriff Curly Wilcox (George Bancroft), who is  going solely due to the fact that that he might have a chance at capturing the Ringo Kid (John Wayne) . As the stagecoach is about to leave, they receive news that Geronimo has left the reservation and is on the warpath with his fellow Apaches. With Cavalry assistance, the stagecoach decides to go ahead as planned. Suddenly a gun shot sounds, and the Ringo Kid is standing in the middle of the trail. He gives himself up without a fight, and is kept on due to the fact that they need some more firepower incase of Apaches. The stagecoach rolls into its first stop and finds out that the Cavalry had already left and that they would have no escort the rest of their journey. After finding out that her husband left and might be seriously injured, Lucy faints and is taken to the bedroom to rest. Only later does Doc realize that she is pregnant and that he must sober up quickly to deliver the baby. After several cups of coffee and splashing himself with cold water, Doc is ready. For hours Doc, with Dallas assisting him, is in the bedroom until Dallas comes out with a baby wrapped in a blanket. After much debate, the group decides to wait an extra day to allow Lucy to rest. With their final destination in sight, the worst possible thing happened, Apaches. A war party of angry Apaches attacks them, but luckily the Cavalry comes to save the day. Once in town, the Ringo Kid Settles an old score with an enemy. The Ringo Kid then marries Dallas and they run off to live on his ranch in Mexico.  The Filming of Stagecoach took place mostly in Monument Valley, Utah. This was the first time John Ford used Monument Valley, and he instantly fell in love with it due to its complete isolation from the rest of the world . He would film several movies in there including The Searchers, another Ford Classic. Filming in Utah made the movie backdrop pretty accurate with what New Mexico would have looked like in the 1870's. As for historical accuracy, it seems to be right on. The Movie mentions Geronimo leaving his reservation , which actually did happen around the 1870's.  Stagecoach seems to come off as a typical western. It has its outlaws, gamblers, drinkers, and Indians. A factor that might turn people off is that the movie is in black and white. And being a person who is growing up in the age of color TV. and movies, it is hard to watch something with band sound and in black and white. But still the movie was rather entertaining and exciting because of John Wayne and the directing of John Ford. Stagecoach is not that useful for our class other than to show us the dangers of stagecoach travel in the beginning of the west.