I have to say that "City Island" is one interesting little piece of cinema.  This 2009 movie features Andy Garcia and Julianna Margulies in the leads.  I found it kind of refreshing to see Andy Garcia in a lead role again.  In the late 1980s and early 1990s good old Andy was a head liner.  However, in the past few years he has taken supporting roles, which hasn't influenced any of his performances but has taken him out of the "spot light".  In "City Island" I am happy to report that Andy Garcia is in the "spot light" again.  This isn't to say that the rest of the cast is sub par.  Julianna Margulies, who I was only familiar with from "ER", is amazing.  As well as a strong supporting cast featuring Steven Strait, Dominik Garcia-Lorido, Ezra Miller, Emily Mortimer and Alan Arkin (in a small role).

The movie takes place in City Island which is a section of the Bronx.  Andy Garcia plays a corrections officer named Vince who has desire to be an actor.  This desire has manifested in him going to weekly acting classes.  However, he is ashamed that his family won't understand his "true calling" so he just tells his family he is playing poker.  Julianna Margulies plays Joyce and she believes that her husband isn't playing poker, but drifting away from her emotionally by having an affair.  Dominik Garcia-Lorido and Ezra Miller play Vivian and Vince Jr., respectively, the daughter and son of the family.  Vivian has her own skeletons, she is a college student who lost her scholarship and is now a stripper to pay her way through school.  Vince Jr. is also a bit alienated; he is a caustic teenager with a fetish towards overweight woman and his yearning to feed them.

Now this dysfunctional family hides all of their idiosyncrasies from one and other, which leads to a great deal of circumstantial comedy.  Yet, things become even more complex when Vince notices that a new inmate (Steven Strait) is his long lost son.  Twenty-four years ago, Vince left a "girlfriend" of his who was pregnant.  After some deductive reasoning he figures out this inmate is his son.  So Vince tells Tony, the long lost son now inmate, that he is willing to bail him out if he would stay with him for a month.  This sabbatical for Tony is a hidden agenda for Vince to tell his "son" the truth, but Vince masks this by saying he wants Tony to help him build a bathroom for his guest house.

There is much more to this movie, in fact this film has many layers.  There are myriad elements in this movie that makes it a notch above your average comedy-drama/dark comedy.  This movie reminds me of "<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00003CWL6">American Beauty (Widescreen Edition)</a>" and "<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00005YUPC">Life as a House (New Line Platinum Series)</a>", not because it has the same story of either film.  In contrast, it has same depth of both films, the ability to promote a smile and a tear.  I am really shocked this movie didn't get a wide release; I think it would have done very well.  It appears nowadays real films are classified as "art films" or "independent films", meanwhile the mainstream is filled with lousy remakes, CGI mind numbing drivel and the occasional good flick.  I think this is an amazing movie and one to not be missed. The story, directing, writing, cinematography and acting are marvelous!  So go ahead and take a trip to "City Island".