Summary: "X"cellent film-X2 exceeds the original film and instills hope in the x-men movie franchise"
The second installment in the X-men saga delivers everything a moviegoer could ask for. Nonstop action, character driven pathos, resolution of plot threads, new questions raised, and cameos and suprises all along the way. X-Men and Comic book fans alike, will be proud that their favorite heroes have put their best face forward. The film's action unfolds within minutes of the opening credits and takes you along for a ride you'll remember long after the last scene in the film. The nature of a sequel, and its expectations notwithstanding, the film could be seen as a standalone. A moviegoer who has seen the original film will marvel at how the films tie so well together as plot threads in the first film get resolved, and new plotlines open up for future films. The film has done a great job to solidify the franchise and continue a new genre of comic related films. From a comic fan's standpoint the film does a very good job of keeping the feel of the comic translated to the big screen. Minor changes in origins and relationships get forgiven when the viewer gets to see their childhood (and maybe even adulthood) heroes brought to life on the siver screen. Marvel's decision to bring the feel of the new issues of the X-Men comics closer to the movie version, was probably a good one. The film itself has so many suprises for the fan of the comic, that the viewer's eye will dart from scene to scene trying to find all the film's character cameos and "easter eggs". The film's translation to DVD will probably be a view's delight. Brian Singer's direction in the film should be lauded, because of the sheer amount of character development you see with the growing number of different x-people in the film. His ability to juggle so many different characters, and actors has definitly grown since The Usual Suspects. Singer does a good job of showing respect to the material. Even slight nuances of the actors' performances at different instances in the film is artfully juggled. (See any character tied to the morphing of Mystique for proof). Hugh Jackman's performance leads the star-studded cast. His portrayal of Wolverine anchors the movie to the cheers of moviegoers-as they relish in the character's adamantium clawed rage. Jackman deftly displays his control of the character's complexity as his interaction with the different castmemembers is seen from scene to scene. Also noteworthy is Ian Mckellan's reprisal of his role as Magneto. It drips with a wonderful amount of sarcasm and dignity that even the most jaded of fans would have to admit that the casting choice was a good one. Alan Cummings's Nightcrawler will probably make lots of children want alot of blue makeup for Halloween this year. The character's addition was a good choice for the film. As the group's makeup starts to get closer to the classic John Byrne/Chris Claremont era of the comic. The X-Men movie franchise has been solidified well. X-Men 2 (X2) draws certain similarities to other sequels like Empire Strikes Back, Godfather 2, and The Two Towers-in its strength as a movie in a series. Fans of the film, movie-goers, and comic books fans will probably argue that its much better than the first film, and its placement in the series. Arguably the film has outmatched its predecessor in many aspects. Much like Empire, the film presents a plot thread that doesn't get resolved at the end of the film. Young fans and people not familiar with the X-Men's history will definitely have questions unanswered at the film's end. For the requirements of a sequel, the film goes a long way of going above and beyond its prerequisites. The movie viewer will be content at the film's end, but saddened that they cannot watch the next film-right away. The anticipation for the next installment of the film will feel arduous. But, at least X-Men 2 has done its job well.  The franchise is in the able and steady hands of Mr. Singer. And as Professor Xavier says "I think everything is going to be just fine."