I have grown up with Baryshnikov's Nutcracker.  I don't understand the review discussing the "perplexing pas de deux" issue.  When I was 7 years old I don't recall sensing anything sinister or improper about Uncle Drosselmeier's behavior towards Clara.  The narrator explains at the beginning of the story that Drosselmeier is giving his godchild "the gift of a dream."

Sigh!  I suppose next some enterprising critic will suggest that the entire premise of "The Nutcracker" is socially/sexually deviant because the love match involves a young girl and a toy, that the Nutcracker/Prince endorses an unhealthy female dependence on "Prince Charming" complex, and that the battle with the mice indicates a rodent fetish.

The storyline has to be taken in context with the era in which it was originally conceived.  It is the story of a young girl nearing adulthood and the complexities of adult choices such as finding a life partner.  Drosselmeier's interferences at the end were meant to draw Clara free from the fantasy/dream and keep her from being "lost" in it.  Surely no one here thinks a responsible parent/guardian would simply allow an adolescent girl to run away with the first beau she falls in love with?

The themes of the dances also indicate Clara's more childish side longing to be "more grown up".  She is dreaming about sweets and flowers (traditional courting gifts at the time as well as the present.) Her costume change (from girl's nightgown to evening dress and crown) indicate a sort of temporary maturity for the sake of the dream.  In the end she returns to her nightgown.

My perception of this production has changed throughout the years and I analyze it much more deeply as an adult than I did when I was a child.  At no time did I ever perceive Drosselmeier as a pedophile or even a sinister character.

Most artistic interpretation relies upon whatever the viewer's perception of the art form is.  I perceive it as a coming-of-age story, the prequel of a young Victorian miss longing but still not quite ready to wear grown-up gowns and receive gentlemen callers, etc.

I've read criticism of the ballet's production values.  It is still beautifully, lovingly done given its age and I appreciate the simplicity of the sets because they don't overwhelm the principles.

This is a precious children's faerie tale with some of the best artistic talent (both dance and music) of its time.  It should be savored lovingly with hot chocolate and friends and family, particularly young people.