I have to confess - I am a newbie to the genre of Dracula and Frankenstein. Too young to have watched the black-and white originals, and too prone to nightmares to watch the serious modern remakes. However, this is what made Van Helsing excellent entertainment for me; It was never my intention to proclaim snootily at the end, " It was alright, but not as good as the first one." I watched it without over-scrutininzing it, and appreciated its wild thrills and comic undertones.

The bones of the[...]are pretty formulaic. You have your dark, brooding hero of mysterious origins, luscious heroine with come-hither kick-ass abilities, and the insane comic sidekick who nearly threatens to steal the show. Dracula is (surprise!) hatching a nefarious plot and only Van Helsing can stop him. Yawn.

This where the madcap action sets in. There is rarely a moment in which something is not going bang or crash, and the CGI is set amid stunning visual direction. All the adrenaline action is in severe danger of going over the top (as it did in League of Extraordinary Gentlemen) but it is salvaged by two things. Firstly, the aforementioned visual splendour of destruction, enhanced by the riotous premise of the whole movie. Secondly, the acting is good enough to prevent the characters from becoming mere dummies thrown around by explosions.

Hugh Jackson is typical Indiana Jones. Enough said. Beckinsale has a very seductive accent and is generally passable. Count Dracula is a marvellous, tongue-in-cheek ham, who earns instant dislike. The cream of the crop is David Wenham (Faramir from LOTR), as a foul-mouthed, womanizing priest-mad scientist in an impossibly British accent. His dry wit, interspersed by cringing and whimpering, ala a fish out of water, are perfect comic uplifters when the story starts to sag.

Topped off by every evil monster in the book, and an array of weapons (a machine arrow-gun, I tell you) with scant regard to historical accuracy, Van Helsing is a visual spectacle, promising few scares but thrill-a-minute entertainment