For a lot of Miyazaki fans from 80s, Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind gave them the defining moment of anime experience.  In Japan, though a lot of people did enjoy it, anime had always been seen as a sort of geeky pleasure, only kids and those adults who were a bit recluse and anti-social really got into it.  The quality of Miyazaki's films did really change that landscape (at least for Miyazaki's films).  You'll see why after watching this classic --- Miyazaki was already doing it in early 80s!

The theme of the film reflects the days when Cold War was still in progress, and Miyazaki's own struggle in reconciling the world shared both by the strong and the weak --- he was made deeply uncomfortable by Darwinistic thoughts back in the day.  The world dominated by the poisonous plants and mutated insects instead of human being is the reflection of the thoughts.  Human's greed and misuse of civilization led to their own demise, and it is the human who became the weaker in the world of Nausicaa.  How do the human survive in the world dominated by now antagonistic mother nature?  You'll find out by watching this film!!

If you have seen Miyazaki's Princess Mononoke, you will see the common underlying theme.  However, Nausicaa is much more satisfying in that the film was completed when Miyazaki was still unsure of how human can reconcile their destructive thoughts and actions with the mother nature, of which they are only a tiny part after all.  To me that ambiguity made Nausicaa less preachy.

It is true that the *true* Nausicaa story does not end the way the film version does.  When Miyazaki had to finish the movie, the graphic novel version was still in progress, so the film version does not really end the way Miyazaki really wanted to end; I think he wasn't sure at the time if ending it with a resurrection of messiah of some sort was the best idea.  Anyhow, if you really come to love Nausicaa, I really recommend the graphic novel version.  The story is a few orders of magnitude more elaborate and enjoyable.

I definitely recommend this film to anyone, not just kids.  This is the film that made Miyazaki a very well respected film maker.