Alias- by far one of the best shows on television. It may not have been a huge hit, but this show had everything. It was dramatic, sad, fun, entertaining, and very shocking.

Season One showed Sydney as the happy-go-lucky super spy. She finds out that the people she had been working for have been lying to her, so she goes to the CIA and becomes a double agent. She's forced to build a relationship with her father, who she hasn't talked to for seven years. She must deal with having to go back to the agency that lied to her and pretend like nothing has changed - they aren't aloud to know the truth about her. She must deal with lying to the man she hates the most, Arvin Sloane, and feel the guilt of having to lie to her unknowing and trustworthy partner, Dixon (who is also being lied to). Sydney is forced to deal with all these things while also having to go on missions and stop the people who make the world dangerous. Season One also introduces Rambaldi, a prophet who made artifacts that people are obsessed with collecting (in order to find out his ultimate mystery) Season One is spectacular from it's phenominal pilot, to it's heart-pounding finale.

Season Two starts right where Season One ends. The premiere gives the closure that the viewers where waiting for, but opened up many more questions to be answered. In this season Sydney is forced to work with someone she never thought she would see again, take down the evil people who lied to her, deal with her personal life meshing with her spy life, tracking down her enemy, Sloane and her forbidden love with a co-worker. Season Two is full of family drama and heartening moments. The second half of the season explodes with plot twists and interesting moments. The jaw-droping season finale leaves the viewer speechless and highly anticipating the next season.

Season Three starts again right where the second season left off. This season is very difficult for Sydney. She is forced to deal with losing multiple friends and family memebers. Sydney has to start anew and rebuild what she once had. She is forced to ally herself with the evil Sloane and must think about if people are capable of change. She meets a woman who puts a damper on her love life and is forced to work with her and be polite. The Rambaldi mystery is very thick in the second half of the season, revealing many answers, but, in common Alias style, opening up more questions. The end of the season has betrayal and an addition to the spy family tree. Season Three's shocking finale ends by ripping apart everything Sydney knew, leaving her unable to trust anyone she thought she could.

Season four picks up about a month after season three ended. Sydney finally ends up quitting the CIA. Shortly after we realize that her 'quitting' was a ruse. She is now working for an undercover organization in the CIA. Sydney needs to deal with working with people she thought she would never have to see again, the same people who betrayed her. She also finds out that someone else may have betrayed her, not the people she thought. In season four Sydney rebuilds trust with those she thought she could never speak to again as well as a bond with someone she didn't even know existed. Rambaldi is unheard of in the first half of the season but by the second half he resurfaces. By the end of the season Sydney must be off saving the world. Finally, after all is well, and Sydney finally thinks that her world is in order, she gets the shock of a lifetime when the one person she thought she could trust tells her that he hasn't been completely honest with her.

Season Five, the final season of Alias, begins right where the fourth season left us. In the shocking premiere Sydney is forced to deal with even more hardship when she loses someone close to her. Her life gets even harder when she finds out that she is pregnant. Now, she must find who caused her to lose her close friend. Sydney allys herself with criminals and anyone who is willing to help. Secrets are revealed and true intentions resurface. The best moment of this season is the series finale. It is the perfect closing to the perfect show.

As the other review said, it is hard to say much without spoiling the surprise, but I hope this rather lengthy review helped.