First of all Cradle was the band that introduced me to good music back when I boought Cruelty and the Beast. So even though I dont like there new stuff I still had to see this dvd. I will start off with the good parts. The concert was awsome. It sounded great. I was also happy to see that they played Black Goddess Rises, A Gothic Romance, Thirteen autumns and a widow,the forest whispers my name. Those four songs alone made this dvd worth watching. My first problem was they played way too many of the new cradle songs. They played the short mtv version of nymphetimine,which cut out the best parts of the song. They played mannequin. Mannequin, what the hell were they thinking. That is only the worst most mtv friendly song they have ever made. They failed to include classics like Cruelty Brought thee Orchids,and Dusk and her Embrace. Those songs have always been staples of a cradle concert. They did play her ghost in the fog(another mtv friendly song). They should have played either Lord abortion or Cthulu Dawn instead. And although it was entertaining I thought they had cooler stage antics on heavy left handed and candid.

Now for the extras.

I thought the video for No Time to Cry was awsome.

The nymphetimine video is horrible. It is proof alone that cradle have sold out and dumbed down there material. Imagine the cradle of filth that made the video for From the Cradle to Enslave. If they ran into the cradle that made the nymphetimine video they would have kicked the living sh!t out of them.

The shocumentary reminded me of a Viva La F@g show. Bam Magera is a G@y F@g ! The only reason Cradle would associate with that @ueer is to promote the band to the braindead mtv fans. On the other hand The Shockumetary on Heavy Left-Handed and Candid was a hilarious look at the band,with plenty of drunken antics to go around. The last thing I saw on this dvd was the part where cradle was signing autographs. Back when I started listening to cradle they were about making great music. They were artists. Now they are a commercial pile of sh!t. During the signing they promoted virgin megastore by focusing the camera on it about 10 times.

Cradle is not what it used to be. They could earn my respect back if they do the following things. They kill and sacrifice Bam Magera and his good charlotte-H.I.M loving friends to the prince of darkness. And if they choose to give up on there plan to be a TRL MTV band. The best way to go about this is if they put out a cd like The Principal of Evil made in the Flesh. It would scare the sh!t out of cradles nu metal fans and it would earn the respect of the metal community. The song of Mist and Midnight Skys is better than all of nymphetimine put together!