A worthy dvd to the collection.  I only have one other dvd of a Star Trek movie and that is the collectors edition of "Wrath of Khan".  Six is my personal favorite as I think it is the most exciting and allegorical of the movies.  It is a commentary on the post cold war mentality in the ladder-half of the twentieth century and the fall of the Soviet Union put into a Star Trek setting of human federation members dealing with their classic Klingon enemies in a more realistic vision than black or white.  This film is an espionage thriller set in futuristic outer space and has the same intensity as "Hunt for Red October".
After a horrid turn it made with the poorly concieved, unreflective, supposed finale, "...V: The Final Frontier", 
Nicholas Meyer, a mild fan of the series, who had directed what is still the most beloved of the series, "The Wrath of Khan", was asked to direct the original Trek crews legacy out of this tight spot.  Meyer, I would credit, as an outsider of the hard-core fanhood, who with objectivity, thematically enhanced the series by pushing the allegory of life at sea with being abord the ship.  He is a terrific writer and he had a lot of literary knowlege to insert and he does it professionally for how he studies up on the star trek universe and reads into aspects of it that were not given a lot of thought.
Aside from this films amazing amount of profound satire, homage, and allegory, it stands as a brilliant and consistant concluder by it bothering to remember the hisory of the movie series and shows that actions in previous films have concequences in the end.  This would be even more true if they not chosen not to replace a familiar character, who was intended to make a very dramatic turn, with a new character whose bold decision has less impact given that you just met this character.
The "Next Generation" series of movies have about as much connection with eachother at the James Bond movies do when watched back to back.  If you want to watch the "Original Crew" movie series in a way that feels like a saga of connected story line like "The Lord of the Rings" series does, the perfect Trek movie line up is, II, III, IV, and VI.
And by the way, I didn't buy the previous edition of this DVD like many people because it looked like it was struck off the same master as my VHS copy was.  Now the movie is very well mastered with much better light and color.  The widescreen presentation has finally been centered and the subtitles(translating Klingon) within the picture.  For all you nittpicky widescreen purists (me included) who were curious why all widescreen versions of this movie aren't as wide as the scope ratio 2.35:1, I have read from multiple sources online that this movie like all the other Trek films was presented on the big screen in scope, but unlike the others, it was filmed and executed in the, then experimental, non-anamorphic, super35 format which is 16:9 and was matted out at the top and bottom when in theaters. While inconsistent with the format of the entire movie series, this is the maximum image composition director-approved presentation.  I believe all three of the "Lord of the Rings" movies were made this way too only they have spawned scope widescreen editions and fullscreen editions that are both as incomplete as eachother in opposite ways.  It's frustrating, but this is how they are shooting the majority of scope-shaped movies today. They want them to be versitile, which accounts for the lack of dynamic screen composition.  Anyway that was a bit unrelated, but I just thought it would be worth clearing that issue up.
The extras are good too. Good commentary. 
Good docs complementing the cold war issues of the film.  Some 
Behind the scenes documentary footage during the filming but not enough. 
Like many of the Trek "Collectors Edition" DVD's the
Menus are a little too silly for my taste.  They make it look too much like a playstation game. Be Simple.