A review of the Special Edition of Twelve O-clock High must be in two parts: the movie itself and the so-called extras that are supplied (thus giving the package its name and a higher cost [and sometime value]).

The movie is a discourse on the impact of the stress of command on individuals. Set against the very early period of the US high-level, daylight bombing of Nazi occupied Europe, the 918th Bombardment Group - Heavy is the weak sister in the fledgling 8th Air Force. It is the unit that looses the most crews, has the poorest bombing record, and the lowest morale.

The movie opens with a chaotic return from a mission that went wrong from the onset and stayed that way to the end. When alerted for a mission the very next day, the group commander, Keith Davenport, goes to higher headquarters to complain. This action sets in motion the belief on the part of General Frank Savage that the problem lies in Davenport's hands for failing to manage the group such that pride and competence are imbued.

The 8th Air Force commander agrees with Savage's assessment and relieves Davenport. He then sends Savage - a former group commander who was promoted to headquarters - to the 918th to straighten it out. Savage does this via the notional "kickin' butts and taking names," and the group evolves into a successful team. The cost for doing this - beyond the horrendous loss of life that would have occurred one way or the other in wartime - is the mental collapse of Savage.

For those seeking a "shoot `em up war movie, you've come to the wrong place. This excellent film is a study in management and inter-personal relationships that is a mirror of not just the military, but also of business. Throughout it, individuals are placed in positions requiring strength of character and commitment. Some fail and some succeed; others do both and find redemption.

As movie, I rate it as a five star.

The extras are decidedly at the other end of the spectrum. A series of interviews with historians are interspersed with footage from the film offer some insight into the characters and events depicted, while offering virtually nothing about the making of the film or the context of the events.

The extras rate a single star at best.

However, the movie is of such strength that the Special Edition version of Twelve O'clock High is a four star item.