So how *does* a 4-hour documentary dare to capture the imagination of a 21st century viewer without any photographs and with only a journal devoid of conflict? Breathtakingly, simply breathtakingly.

Ken Burns and Dayton Duncan traveled the same route as Lewis & Clark's expedition team and have woven the images together into a tapestry of beauty that conveys the awe and reverence that the original travelers must have felt as they were the first Americans to experience the enormous majesty of our country. The ethnic diversity of the expedition party (e.g. York, William Clark's slave, a Frenchman, an Indian) was important to the filmmakers and allows us to draw the conclusion that e pluribus unum reverberated as much then as it does now: out of many, one. The film does not spotlight only on Lewis & Clark, but gives adequate attention to the other members of the party so as to remind us that nothing is ever done without the strength of all of the fibers being woven together, lending itself to a film that is realistic in its portrayal of all of the efforts that went into this fantastic voyage.

As a fascinating twist, the main character is the geography as the viewer is constantly swept toward the next vista, encompassing the breadth and expanse that lies ahead, the enormous and humbling challenge that man faces every day in this nation which is blessed with rich resources. One cannot watch this film without yearning to make a similar journey, perhaps to find our own inner depths and to seek our own marvelous adventures that unfold before us, never knowing what's metaphorically around the next bend of the river or the next mountain that presents itself. Balance in the portrayal of Lewis & Clark is evidenced in that they are not shown as archetypal heroes, but instead are shown as normal people with problems and flaws. Credit to the filmmakers must be given for their being careful not to idolize the adventurers, but to point out that it is only with the help of one another that we are able to achieve great accomplishments, that no one discovery rests solely on the shoulders of just one individual but on the collective efforts of all those with whom we undertake such endeavours.

Finally, it must be said that one will come away with a sense of excitement as PBS once again achieves the amazing task of making history exciting, fresh, and vivid.