What can I say about Awakenings?  It left me absolutely speechless.  This film, based on a true story, stars Robin Williams, who plays Dr. Malcolm Sayer and Robert De Niro as one of his patients, Leonard Lowe, who survived an encephalitis outbreak when he was younger only to live in a somewhat comatose-like state ever since.  Hope, and maybe even a miracle show up in the form of a new drug.  And, what comes next is these patients experiencing an awakening.

I cannot name a time when I have been more moved by any film.  At the end of Awakenings, I sat in stunned silence, and then I sobbed.  I'm not the crying type, and it's a miracle that I saw this movie alone and in the confines of my home, because if anyone saw how hard it hit me, they might have thought I was having some kind of a breakdown.  And...if I'd been in a theater, I would have had to sit long after the credits had stopped rolling just to pull it all together.  No movie has made me cry more than this one.  No movie has been as gut-wrenching or heartbreaking; at least, for me.

The actors and the film itself did win a few awards, but I also think that Robert De Niro should have won the Oscar that he was nominated for.  Don't think this is a comedy, though there are some humorous parts, simply because of Robin Williams' presence.  He proves that he can successfully pull off a dramatic role.  He does an absolutely excellent job.  This is his greatest performance.

I haven't even mentioned Robert De Niro's role yet.  I just love Leonard Lowe in this film.  He's so innocent, and you can practically feel this character's emotions as he awakens and does every day tasks for the first time in forever, things that I know I take for granted and that others take for granted as well.  You watch as he gets an almost childlike enjoyment out of these simple tasks, and it's so sweet.  Even the way he combs his hair and interacts with Penelope Ann Miller's character, Paula, is sweet and very touching.  De Niro has starred in the occasional comedy, transformed in Raging Bull, has gone from bad guy and good guy and back again, almost like a chameleon, and he does so again here in a role unlike any he's ever done before.  He's more than believable; he ripped my heart out.

This is a must-see film, which may have it's fair number of ratings here on Amazon, but I never hear anyone mention this movie...ever.  It deserves the recognition it has received as well as current acknowledgement.  Here is this incredible true story that you have to see and research yourself to believe; and now, I'll have to look up more on the real story. If any filmmaker can take two great actors who make the viewer feel so many emotions: hope, despair, sympathy, and even happiness at tiny successes, that is a huge accomplishment.