DreamWorks' U.S. sequel to its Ring franchise, The Ring Two (2005), shares little DNA with author Koji Suzuki's second novel, Spiral ([1995], 2004), or Asmik Ace's Japanese film of the same title (1998), but traces its genes to the studio's second effort, Ringu 2 (1999), helmed by Hideo Nakata, director of Ringu (1998), and Suzuki's spirited companion tale, Floating Water (1996), respectively remade in Japan and the U.S., as Dark Water by Kadokawa (2001) and Touchstone (2005) Pictures.

In The Ring Two, director Hideo Nakata plunges filmgoers back into its predecessor's brooding sea of intranquility, stirred by composer Hans Zimmer's haunting score. The unrated edition (recommended) pans viewers from a star-canopied sky, down an array of electrical transmission lines, to a placid, moonlit park where two seventeen-year-olds, Jake and Emily (Ryan Merriman and Emily VanCamp) parry uneasily on a swing set over their unconsummated high school relationship. Jake "wins" Emily's confidence for the evening--but not in anticipation of a budding romance, rather in a clandestine bid to save his life. Within minutes of their arrival at his family's vacated, upscale home, Jake beleaguers Emily into viewing his underground copy of Samara Morgan's lurid videotape. As Jake frantically ticks-off the remaining minutes of his "seven-days" on the kitchen's microwave clock, now approaching 11 PM, Emily kneels before the altar of the family room's media center and cues the videotape. Hearing the anticipated white noise in the adjacent room, Jake breathes a sigh of relief, and accepts the muted kudos of a disingenuous co-conspirator on the telephone. Dark water oozes across the kitchen floor, stealthily engulfing him in the customary Munch "Scream." Only then does Jake realize--too late--HE was the intended victim! Visibly shaken, he rushes into the family room and discovers that Emily screened the maledict tape with "eyes wide shut!" Bemused, he turns to face his dripping, electronic portal to oblivion.  The frocked reaper (Kelly Stables) emerges from her crescent-capped alchemical well and, in a brilliant behind-the-back close-up, pierces into "reality" from her pallid, deciduous netherworld. With shoulders convulsing and arms outstretched, the evil doppelganger fulfills Jake's soggy date with doom! Jake's jaw drops and Emily screams--but not before she recoils safely on the sofa, again covering her eyes.

Six months after disseminating her son's copy of Samara Morgan's infamous videotape, a life saving act for Aidan, as well as burying his father and her former lover, Noah Clay, her niece, Katie Embry, and Samara Morgan's remains, Rachel and Aidan Keller (Naomi Watts and David Dorfman) have relocated to sunkist Astoria, Oregon, a charming, seaside community, a short drive away from rainy Seattle, to start a quiet, new life. Rachel, the new Associate Editor of the Daily Astorian, a respectable tabloid inherited by native son, Max Rourke (Simon Baker), her malcontent boss and contemporary--a Columbia graduate lamenting his lost independence in New York City--seizes her chance to shelter Aidan with all the comforts of a stand-alone home and backyard, for the first time, despite empathizing with Max.

No sooner after they've settled into their new haunts, newsroom rumblings about the inexplicable death of an adolescent male set into motion the events of the film, which quickly spiral out of control for Rachel and Aidan as the boundaries between reality, hallucinations, and nightmares blur. Jake's death, like Katie's in The Ring, beforehand, serves as the conduit for Samara's fated reunion with Rachel and Aidan. A watery encounter with the possessive sprite (Daviegh Chase in archive footage) in Max's bathroom compounds Rachel's mounting problems, leading local authorities to summarily label her an abusive mother, justified on trumped-up charges of post-partum depression. The accusations turn Rachel into a fugitive of justice and the health care system, and Aidan, seemingly, into a killer. Compelled to renew her investigation into Samara's troubled past, Rachel hazards a return visit to the Morgan family ranch on Seattle's fictional Moesko Island. True to her name, she discovers an enigmatic journal in the cellar, hinting of occult tub-and-basin rituals of life-and-death that shaped Samara's turbulent history and tragic separation from her natural mother, Evelyn, at the Mary Magdalene Catholic Orphanage, over thirty years ago, where she later interviews its enduring staff. She follows-up with a provocative encounter with Evelyn, now residing in a nearby Sanatorium, who offers spirited, if not maddening, advice to empower Rachel to set aside her fears, reverse the chase with her son's--and Samara's--festering nemesis, and take an otherworldly offensive that necessitates a quantum leap in faith, fueling lingering doubts over everyone's fate.

The Ring Two, though not quite up to the gold standard of its forebear, surprisingly stands-up well as an entertaining film, peppered with fine performances. In a regrettable departure from the original, Suzuki's insightful and self-reliant--albeit vulnerable--teens have been transformed into a disingenuous cabal of pranksters' intent on cheating each other to death in a sodden game of seven day "VCR Survivor." You will need to view the 16-minute featurette, Rings, part of the DVD's extras, for a surprisingly well-crafted explanation of the shadowy circle's origins and Samara's senseless exploitation. David Dorfman plays the possessed youngster, Aidan Keller, deftly, balancing himself on the razor's edge between believability and precipitous melodrama. Simon Baker shines as Max Rourke, a reluctant newspaperman torn between the facts of Rachel's story and his genuine concern for her and Aidan. Naomi Watts, without doubt, proves to be one of Hollywood's longest overlooked dark horses, a beautiful and equally talented actress who taps into her deep reservoir of personal experience to bring magic to an ever-improving array of roles and characterizations, and is long overdue her well-deserved recognition and just rewards.