Junebug is a movie showing off the skills and talents of all involved. Actors act, revealing deep characters. The director directs, bringing the audience into the film and ensuring a proper blending of characters. Sound, cinematography, and costuming are artfully used to engage the audience in mood and attitude. That's what movies are all about, isn't it? Well... it also seems that's what movies have been lacking lately. Junebug is a movie that gives me hope we are transending hype and moving toward substance.

Yet, this film apparently failed with the theater audience. Read the negative reviews to learn why. Audiences like movies with resolution. Instead, Junebug looks at passages. We see change. We see realities faced and choices made. But we do not see what follows. It leaves us thinking. It left me uneasy. I like it. It enriches me.

What's Junebug about? It's about culture clash. It's about people realizing who they are, where they come from, where they are now, and where they want to be. We see a couple, compatible where they are at the moment, falling in love, marrying quickly after a whorlwind romance, then getting to know each other in context. By the end of the movie, the honeymoon is over. We leave this couple knowing of their committment to each other, but not knowing how or if they can sort out the problem of living together. (But that's only one of the stories going on.)

We see beauty in our characters, and we see ugliness. There are no heroes, there are no villians-- only human beings. One genius is the ability to reveal so much about every character in it, including cameo characters like the neighbor across the street. Another genius is its composition: scenes, scene changes, timing, use of cinematography and sound, etc. And yet another genius is its resistance to judgement. A final genius is that, rather than ending as I wanted it to end, Junebug ends as is should end. Rather than giving me what I want, it does the Right Thing (a brave act in movie-making as well as in life).

This movie is about people and life. It's not about competition of good and evil, or us and them-- although such are addressed. The movie is tight, concise. Acting is well-done and very evenly done. (Amy Adams plays, perhaps, the only 'endearing' character, but even that is qualified.) Junebug is a comedy in the sense that people are amusing. It is a drama in the sense that life is dramatic.

Enjoy it!