Well, the third season of Charmed is out and I still haven't bought the seasons because I don't have the room for them. But this season is very tempting to buy since it is the best season of the 7 1/2(with the exception of Season 4!!!) What made this the best season was everything, the acting, the action, the characters, the storylines.....All top notch. This season was Prue, Piper, and Phoebe at their magical best as the Charmed Ones. This season introduces one of the best characters ever, Cole Turner aka. Belthazor!!! Cole is such a freshing character, half human/half demon!!! The story between Cole and Phoebe's forbidden love was amazing to watch!!! Piper and Leo continue to fight for their and it leads to the day we've all been waiting for....!!! Prue contines to find herself as she goes in strengh, but of course we all know by the end of the season, Prue will find her down fall!!! Here is Season 3:

Honeymoon's Over-Good episode!!! "While Prue and Phoebe trackdown demons called the Guardians, they meet interney Cole Turner and Piper and Leo return from their sudden disappearence!!!" A good premeire. the guardians were interesting demons, Phoebe's becomes a blonde and gets a new power:Levitation!!

Magic Hour-Good Episode!!! "The Charmed Ones must help a couple who have been curse to become animals by a demon, while Piper and Leo try to get married!!!" This was a nice episode, and it's sad at the end when Leo goes away and Piper cry for him!!!

Once Upon A Time-Pretty Good episode!!! "The Charmed Ones must help a little girl and her fairy princess from a group of evil Trolls, while Piper deals after losing Leo!!!" This was a cute episode, and it was funny seeing Prue and Phoebe acting so silly. Holly is great in this episode where she really shows the pain in Piper's feelings for Leo!!!

All Haliwell's Eve-Great episode!!! "On Halloween, The Charmed Ones are sent to back to 1600's to protect an unborn baby, while Leo and Darrel fight the Grimlocks at the manor!!" This episode not only gave us a look on how the Haliwell line started, but how the myth of witches began!!

Sight Unseen-Great episode!!! "When Prue finds the manor trashed, Prue asumes it is demonic attack from the Traid, while the sisters doubt her paranoid ideas. But soon the sisters will find out the attack is more mortal than demonic!!" This episode was just so original and had an amazing twist. All our leading ladies give great perfomances!!

Primrose Empath-Great episode!! "When Prue tries to help an innocent who is cursed with empathy, she gets the power herself which starts to quickly drive her insane!!!" Shannon gives her best performance to date in this episode that you can't help but feel her pain. The fight scene at the end is really great, too!!

Power Outage-Great episode!!! "When Beltazhar orders the demon of rage to infect the sisters, it cause them to lose their powers and become vunerable to attack!!!" This episode had some nice fight scenes, Cole finally shows how much he loves Phoebe, which is such a amazing moment!!!

Sleuthing With The Enemy-Great episode!!! "When Prue and Piper combine forces with a bounty hunter to track Beltazhar, Phoebe helps an injured Cole who finally reveals himself to her!!" I love how Cole reveals himself, and ending is just so emotional how Phoebe and Cole have to say goodbye!!!

Coyote Piper-Good episode!! "During Piper's high school reunion, she is possessed by a female demon leaving Prue and Phoebe to save her!!!" Holly really owns this episode that gives her a lot more range of acting to do!!!

We All Scream For Ice Cream-Pretty good episode!!! "The Charmed Ones must save children who are being upducted by an evil Ice Scream truck, but soon realize who the true enemies are!!!" This was another episode with a nice twist, the demonic children were kind of scary and refreshing!!! Papa Haliwell returns with a new face!!!

Blinded By The Whitelighter-Great episode!! "When a warlock named Eames plans to rid the world of witches and whitelighters, the sisters have no choice but to follow the orders of a whitelighter named Natalie!!!" This episode was very entertaining, the scenes with Natalie and the girls was so funny!!! Phoebe tells Leo that Cole is alive!!!

Wrestling With Demons-Great episode!!! "The Charmed Ones must save Tom, Prue ex's boyfriend, who is becoming a demon, which leds to a fight between them and demons in a wrestle ring for his soul!!" The episode was very funny, and the fight scene with Prue, Phoebe and the wrestlers was great!!! Also, Phoebe tells her sisters that Cole is alive!!!

Bride and Gloom-Great episode!!! "When a demonic preistess marries Prue and a warlock in an evil spell, Piper and Phoebe become evil and reck havok!!!" It was fun to see the girls acting evil and using their evil powers!!! Also, Cole returns!!!

The Good, The Bad, and The Cursed-Good episode!!! "When Phoebe becomes supernaturally ill, Prue and Cole travel through a time loop to the 1800's to save an Indian man to break the curse!!!" Cole and Prue bashing each other through episode was funny, and Victor reaction to Leo being a whitelighter was funny!!!

Just Harried-Great episode!!! "On Piper and Leo's wedding day, Prue is wanted for murder after her astral self causes trouble in a bar and at the wedding!!!" It was nice to finally see Piper and Leo get married!!! Seeing all the girls with their mother was such an emotional moment!!!

Death Takes A Halliwell-Goos episode!! "When the Charmed Ones are fighting the Seekers who are after Belthazor, Prue meets the Angel of Death who teaches her a lesson!!!" The seekers were really good demons, Prue realizing that you can't save everyone is a hard lesson to learn!!!

Pre-witched-Great episode!!! "When Piper and Leo decide to move out, the girl try to vanquish a warlock as they recall 3 years ago when they didn't have their powers yet and Grams was alive!" This episode was really amazing as we got to see how the girls were before they were witches!!! The man who play the warlock was a great actor!!

Sin Fransico-Good episode!! "When trying to find the demon who is controlling the 7 deadly sins, the sisters and Leo become infected by them and cause serious problems!!!" How each of the characters got infected was funny!!! Phoebe becoming the whore, Piper over buying, Prue being....more Prue-like, and Leo being such a slob!!!

The Demon That Came In From The Cold-Great Episode!!! "After he and Phoebe are attacked, Cole goes undercover in his old coven, the Brotherhood!!! But his sudden evil deeds makes the girls wonder has he gone back to the dark side!!!" This was a dark episode that really shows how good Cole can be!! But the ending leaves many wondering what will happen next!!!

Exit Strategy-Great episode!!! "Raynor devises a plan sending Cole after 2 amulets that combined could become powerful, The girls try to save Cole while Piper tries to control her destructive new power!!!" It was funny seeing Piper using her new power, especially when she knocked Prue out!!! It was so sad seeing the girls turn on Cole at the end though!!!

Look Who's Barking-Good episode!!! "When tracking down a Banshee, Prue becomes a dog while Piper tries to deal with her new power and Phoebe deals with her pain over losing Cole!!!" Alyssa really shines in this episode, and your just hoping Cole and Phoebe will be together by the end!!! Prue as a dog brought a lot of funny moments like Piper and Phoebe cleaning her poo!!!

All Hell Breaks Loose-Incredible episode!!! "After vanquishing the demon Shax, the sisters are exposed on national tv, which causes terrible consequences as the whole city is at their doorstep!!!" This is by far, the best episode in the series ever!!! Everyone gives an amazing performance, espeically Holly who makes her death scene so real!!! Also, this is Prue's last episode, and boy does she leave her mark!!!

So Season 3 really shows what Charmed is all about and the show was at it's pick!!! Shannon Doherty really went all out for her last season on Charmed, she is still missed til' this day!!! So go get the dvd, and re-live the Golden day of Charmed!!!