This film, about two high-tech female assassins-for-hire chased by a female police detective, is imperfect, often implausible and predictable; but it still thrilled me anyway. It has three very positive things going for it:
1. Terrific fight choreography by Corey Yuen, one of the greatest fight choreographers around (he worked on "X-Men" and "Lethal Weapon 4", many Hong Kong films.) The kung fu is great, although the gunfights are standard issue.
2. Hsu Qi, who is one of the most beautiful actresses anywhere, gets a lot of face time and sexy outfits. Unfortunately she is not a great actress, but hey, nobody's perfect.
3. Karen Mok, who IS a great actress and extraordinarily charismatic, though not nearly as pretty.
Drawbacks:
1. The story is standard issue and predictable.
2. Opening action sequence is very implausible; later fights are improvements.
3. The third heroine, Wei (Vicky) Zhao, is way too soft-looking to be a believable fighter. She is a bad actress and unfortunately gets some super-emotional scenes that are cringeworthy.
Now about Karen Mok. I'd never seen Mok in anything before, but as the police detective she was muscular, charismatic, just amazing. Considering how many fights there are here, it's crucial that the women be believably trying to hurt somebody. We want THROWDOWN! In the fights, you definitely believe Mok is trying to hurt somebody. As the story progresses,  Mok's character becomes only more masculine/adrogynous. Which is a good thing.
Only once or twice can you believe Hsu Qi is trying to hurt somebody. But she looks gorgeous in a black cocktail dress, so we'll forgive her, and she's photographed well, which is important. (The face time she gets here makes up for how badly she was wasted in "The Transporter.")
What really made me want this on DVD, is the terrific girl-on-girl fight between Mok and Hsu Qi, which happens midway through the film. They ride an elevator together, and each knows the other is her enemy, but they pretend not to know. Outside the elevator they get into a fight so classic, so good that action directors should study it for years into the future. Finally, Hsu Qi gets down and dirty in her black cocktail dress; you can really believe she wants to hurt somebody. Yeah! THROWDOWN! THROWDOWN!! And Mok, who's dressed like a boy, gives it right back to her. Director Corey Yuen pulls out all the stops here: fast motion, slow motion, camera pans, bullet time, the works, but they're all used appropriately to thrill us, not overused as gimmicks. During the fight, Mok manages to handcuff herself to Hsu Qi, which leads to great close-up one-handed fighting.
As for the plot, oh well, it's predictable and often, totally implausible. The opening action sequence, in which Hsu Qi sticks herself to the ceiling while assassinating an evil executive, is quite unbelievable. And it's scored to the Carpenters' annoying song "Close to You." The film's conclusion is even less satisfying: after all the laws that've been broken, none of the heroines go to jail? Oh, c'mon.
But it's worth it just to see Karen Mok and Hsu Qi duke it out in cute outfits! If you want a Hsu Qi movie and are deciding between this and "The Transporter", go for this.