This is not a review of the movie itself, but rather of the 3D version designed for home viewing.

First it's important to note that not all versions include the 3D version on the reverse side of the disc. If you're looking for 3D, make sure the version you are buying includes both the 2D and 3D versions. They will both be on a single disc.

Just recently acquiring a Mitsubishi 65" 3D-ready DLP HDTV I was quite anxious to start viewing all the home variety 3d programming I could get my hands on.

First I found a couple of movies that I knew my kids would love and made the purchase. First was Spy Kids in 3d, followed by Lava Girl and Shark boy. While there were a few spots (very few) with mediocre 3d effects, all in all I was pretty disappointed with the lack of depth perception, clarity, color, and items that were supposed to 'pop' out at you. On a scale from 1 to 10 for 3d goodness, I'd give each a 3.

Not wanting to give up on home 3d viewing, I searched for another kid friendly 3d movie for home viewing, and wound up ordering Journey to the Center of the Earth.

Now, I haven't watched this with my kids yet, that will be this weekend. But I just completed my pre-viewing - in 3d - and all I can say is WOW!
Unlike the other two movies mentioned above, both of which had you putting on your 3d glasses, then taking them off, then putting them on again, the entire movie here is in 3d. And the 3d effects are good. I mean really good.

Finally I was able to see stuff pop out of the screen at me. And the entire move - all scenes - look as though you are viewing them through a viewmaster. Total depth of scene, along with decent color and clarity. I am so happy to finally have something that will make my 3d hdtv come to life. And that I know my kids are going to love as well!
My advice. If you're looking for a good 3d movie to watch at home, don't miss this one.

The only drawback I've found is that this movie uses their own unique 3d galsses, instead of the common red/green variety. Too bad since I own several pair of expensive plastic framed standard anaglyph red/green glasses. So, when watching this movie, we are forced to use the cheap paper glasses that come with it, as no others will work (I've tried).

Still, I highly recommend the movie for it's superb at home 3d effects, and fun, action filled story.