"Jewel of the Nile" was a great followup to "Romancing the Stone" -- a movie I first saw by accident!  My girlfriend and I went to see something special and it was sold out.  But we'd driven so far to this movie house we decided to see SOMETHING!  We looked at the marquee and saw Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner in a new film (Romancing the Stone) we hadn't even heard of, and decided to go for it.  Must I say that this was one of the very best action/romance adventures of recent decades?!  You betcha!  So it wasn't much of a thought process to go see it's sequel -- and we were happy to see the return of Danny DeVito as well!
The amount of action was increased for this movie, maybe because shoot-'em-ups outperform romances -- who knows.  But it all worked out well, with another nasty villain, the Brothers Karamazov (who aren't really brothers) playing juggling Arabs, and a person (SPOILER ALERT!) that is indeed a jewel of a fellow!  Turner's naivet&eacute; about the chap she's doing a story on doesn't last long, but she is reluctant to mention her discovery of exactly what the Jewel of the Nile is to her lover (Douglas) who is still thinking of some treasure of a Jewel -- like in Romancing the Stone.
Mainly it's one long chase -- with the bad guy pursuing them across the desert to prevent them telling the story of what he is up to -- but when was the last time you saw a chase that involved an F-16 Fighter Aircraft ---- on the ground?!  There are some interludes for Turner and Douglas along the way, but in the end there are two grand climaxes: defeating the bad guys plan and getting married!  End of sequels...  With the prices that Amazon is offering for these Blu-Ray discs it was not a hard decision for me to make -- get 'em both!!  Seldom does a pair of movies come along that make you laugh as much, and feel for the all the characters involved.  Oh yes -- you can give your older DVD versions of these movies to a friend who may not yet have caught the real jewel in movies today -- Blu-Ray!