Although I'm not new to fitness, I'm relatively new to yoga after my doctor recommended it as an exercise alternative that can also help relieve the pain of several herniated discs in my neck.  I haven't taken any studio classes, but have tried out several DVDs at home.  My first couple efforts had "beginner" plastered all over the DVD case since I was a little nervous about this whole new stretchy-bendy yoga thing, but in the end I didn't find them challenging enough to break a sweat.  Total Body Workout, however, got me sweating!

The video starts off somewhat slowly with some stretches and flows to get you warmed up, but don't let it fool you.  The flow is so smooth that you don't even realize that you're progressing into much more challenging poses.  The video has a really well planned trajectory from warm up to peak exertion and winds down gradually into a cool down without spending to much time on any one part.  On the poses, I have to say that as a yoga newbie I'm pretty glad that I had done some other beginner videos and had at least some familiarity with poses, because this video moves pretty quickly and doesn't offer much in the way of instruction or modification.  If you're an absolute beginner and want more coaching and instruction, this probably isn't the right video for you; but even if you're a relative beginner with basic familiarity with poses and you want an energizing but challenging workout and you're willing to cross reference other videos or use the web, this would be a great addition to your practice (if I find a pose too difficult, I try to look up some modifications or details about the pose online to make sure I'm doing it right).

Compared to other videos, this one hits the sweet spot for me.  It's much more challenging than the beginner videos and I find that even after doing it several times there are some poses that I'm still reaching for, which gives me the opportunity to grow into the video as my practice develops. In contrast to some of the other high intensity yoga videos (something like the Jillian Michaels video, which I also have), the tone and flow of Total Body Workout actually leaves me feeling energized and centered. It's a yoga practice that also happens to give you a fantastic workout, not a workout that uses yoga poses because it seems like a fad.  And the best part of the whole practice: It really has helped reduce my neck pain and improve my posture.

Just one final note: I actually bought this workout as a part of one single DVD that compiles Power Yoga: Total Body with two others (Yoga Burn and Yoga Conditioning for Athletes) into one DVD called "Rodney Yee's Power Yoga Collection" that ended up being the same price as buying this DVD separately.