1 hour 32 minutes
PG Rating

Who's in it?
Jack Black - Po (voice), Dustin Hoffman - Shifu (voice), Angelina Jolie - Tigress (voice), Ian McShane - Tai Lung (voice), Jackie Chan - Monkey (voice), Seth Rogen - Mantis (voice), Lucy Liu - Viper (voice), David Cross - Crane (voice)

This is beautiful animation. Production is superb. From the maker of Shrek. Kung Fu Panda is another success targeted for both kids and adults. Funny and guaranteed entertainment. There are a lot of witty one liners. Lots of action. Even my 3-year old was laughing. One of those movies that you may want to bring in the car with kids on a long trip.

Summary in one paragraph:

It is the story of Po the Panda. The most unlikely hero. He is fat, lazy and uncomfortably clumsy. He loves Kung Fu, in fact he has posters of all his Kung Fu idols on his bedroom walls. Son of a very proud noodle maker who wants to leave his super secret recipe to his son once he become mature enough. One day, there was a news of a public special occasion that the Dragon Warrior will be selected at the Jade Temple. Po has to be there to witness such a historical event. Pretending to his father that he will be selling noodles at the event, he arrived late because he has trouble hauling the heavy noodle cart on the stairs that lead to the temple. The gate were now all closed. The strangest thing happened when master Shifu was about to pick the Dragon warrior. Po, attempting every thing just to catch a glimpse of the event, literally fall on the very spot. Nobody can believe it even Po himself, except Oogway, the old (turtle) master who says that everything that happens in this world is not an accident. The main villain is the Snow Leopard "Tai Lung" who eventually escaped from his prison and threatened the whole village for his revenge. His main reason was not being chosen as the Dragon Warrior and entrusted the ultimate kung fu secret which is supposedly written on the scroll inside the temple. The great battle has to happen between the Dragon Warrior and Tai Lung. The whole village has to be evacuated. At this time, Po has been handed the scroll but he did not know what to make of it. Finally, it was his father that gave him the real answer to the scroll, the answer lies in the secret noddle recipe.