I did enjoy the first D&D, I must admit. It shouldn't have been based on D&D though or given the title. It would've made more sense if it were its own, non-based-on-a-game movie. That way, D&D fans wouldn't have compared it to the board game and been disappointed. But, I still liked the first.

Now, onto this sequel (which really should be considered the first in a trilogy of D&D movies, only if they keep to the same concept as this one), it was great. My mom and I decided to watch it at my grandmother's house to keep her company, and because I been waiting awhile to watch it. We just loved it. I was kinda skeptical at first, because let's face it, SciFi original movies suck big time. I was scared that this movie would have total crap special effects and way, way bad acting. (Watch SciFi's Alien Express and Bloodsuckers to catch my drift.) I was relieved that this was so awesome and serious. Not all goofy and stuff. It had great mythical characters banding together to stop an awesome villain (from the first) and his allies from gaining control of an orb that would control an almighty Dragon (hence the name "Wrath of the Dragon God") from wrecking havoc on the Kingdom of Izmer (which, by the way, on the first they pronounced it Izmer "IZMEER," and on this sequel they pronounce it like it was "ISHMEER," weird, huh?) anyway, the special CGI effects are great for a made-for-tv movie as well as the acting and landscapes and set pieces. The Dragon's on here look way more ferocious that on the first film, and you actually see our heroes journeying to find the orb, like they're actually on a quest (where-as-to the first film, a scene would appear, and the heroes would be in a different kingdom or something without actually seeing of their travels and obstacles {well, besides the maze, but that isn't travel, it's just an obstacle}). Also, they're are a bunch of traps and stuff in this one. So, in closing, I must say that this DVD, coming out November 8th, is on my Christmas wish list, and I can't wait to see it without those overly long commercials. Also, the barbarian is hot, and even the female wizard. Not to mention the Priestess. In other words, all the fems in here are hot. And for you ladies, you may find the knight and the cleric as hot. Not too shabby of a deal.