Yes, it's pretty in a "Last Emperor" meets "Koyanisqaatsi" kind of way.  Yes, Scorsese gets some points for daring to use authentic "non actors" in the roles.  Yes, the Glass soundtrack is unique, even if (and I'm a Glass fan) it does err on the side of detachment overly much.
But the problems are just far, far too large to ignore.
First, we have the historical and political reality of Lama-ist Tibet that this movie barely even hints at.  For all of you who think that Tibet was some sort of Shangri-La prior to the invasion of the Chinese, do a Google on 'Tibetan serf'. You'll quickly discover that Lama-ist Tibet was a feudal society, with 95% of the population living as illiterate serfs or slaves.  The top 5% of society, who were more or less allowed to treat the commoners as disposable draft animals, consisted of landowners, the aristocracy, and....you guessed it.....monks.  Add in the CIA funding of the uprising against the Chinese, and you quickly realize that the Dalai Lama can be seen as a well-heeled theocrat whose drive for Tibetan nationalism cannot be divorced from a retrenchment to an ancient despotic regime.
Secondly, you have the portrayal of the Dalai Lama himself in the movie.  To put it simply, he's flawless.  He's not portrayed as a man so much as a demi-god.  He can do no wrong, commit no evil.  If he has a flaw, it's that in his purity and idealism he is a bit naive.  This glossy cardboard rendition leads to a bland, flat, dramaless character with whom the audience cannot connect. Every great hero has tragic flaws, and every great villain has a kernel of sympathy.  But not the Dalai Lama! Instead, we're given a spiritually perfect uber-being who, when all is said and none, comes across as pretty darn boring.
Had Scorsese made a movie about a spiritual, idealistic man caught between defending a despotic, slavish regime and selling-out to aggressive, god-less, brutal Chinese communists...with a little international politics and CIA intrigue mixed-in...we could have had a very interesting movie.
But, instead, he gave us Botoxified artprop: pretty on the surface, but only skin deep.