[...]

It is striking to me in the movie how we see the themes of poverty, greed and honour covered. This was not a movie in praise of MMA or Jiu Jitsu. In fact I saw it as a bucket of cold water thrown into the face of modern day competitive MMA -- That's right Dana White. Mr. White, a former boxing promoter is the Marty Brown in this movie... a modern day Don King. I remember going to Dojos in the 80's. Martial Arts were 50% about self defense, 25% about exercise/working out and 25% about self control, honour, reflection, and spiritual equillibrium. Now it seems most of them have lost the last 25% (with the possible exception of Aikido). This 25% has been replaced with Sport/Money.

Its reflective of the nation as a whole. What's interesting about the movie is that Mike Terry's character seems dead broke, but he's got a strong spirit, more so than the wealthy businessmen in the movie who are desperate for money more than he is. What happened in this country to the Marine motto: "Death before Dishonour"? Ever since Clinton said "I lied to you" on national TV in the late 90's, no one trusts the government, nor our elected officials any more. So much corruption -- Abramahoff, Ney, Stevens, Delay, Blagojevich, Spitzer, Clinton, Libbey, Cheney, etc etc... You can tell in the movie that Terry's character had no taste for borrowing money .. as his wife did from the loan shark.

The corruptibility of money.. another theme. Why is it that we all chase it so badly nowadays. Maybe the elder generation can answer better. My hunch is that since the US Dollar was forced under Nixon to abandon the Gold Standard in the 70's, we have seen so much devaluation, that everyone is terrified of running out of cash. We are all hustling like mad men to make a buck and stay afloat. Look at Gold and Oil.. they tell the story well. I know, the story really goes back to 1913 with the start of the Fed.

This movie also speaks to many who follow MMA regarding why certain styles are not seen in MMA. "Oh if that guy is so good why doesn't he get in the ring". As Terry's character states, its because there are too many rules. Gloves, restarts from the bottom/clinch, time/rounds, all the 30 or so Unified Rules. Its all designed to 1) protect the fighters so they can fulfill their 6 fight 2 yr contracts and 2) create an exciting match! I am happy to see that some of the Martial Arts legends were able to get roles and make some money in this movie. Unlike alot of the other critics, who bash the movie, what do you expect for $7-10m budget? That's peanuts for today's $70m budget films (what Stalone's The Expendables is targeting).

Other observations? I actually liked the ending. There's always an escape. Yes, we know this. As Hadrat Ali (AS) stated: "No problem can withstand the onslaught of sustained thought." Mike Terry understood this as an incremental process of "improving the position". Of not giving up.

I didn't like the death of the blond cop - Max Martini's character, but it speaks an ode to another theme of the movie most people probably didn't get: Reverence and Respect. Respect for the leader, the teacher, yes, the Sensei. Yes, it goes to the fact in the internet era where people think they can get a Phd from Apple's iTunes U, that real knowledge is passed down from teacher to student, live and in person. Joe Collins had this reverence for Mike Terry. Terry had it for the Professor, enough to go back in in the stadium and risk his life to expose the fraud.

Its usually reserved for people who have excellent scruples and principles -- not just from the Pulpit or the lectern, but in daily life. THIS REQUIRES SACRIFICE. JFK, Malcom X, Martin Luther King, Paul Wellstone, these people are martyrs for a reason. The movie reminds me a bit in this respect of ending in the "The Mission". Mike was one of those people in the movie. My point is that today we seem bereft of public leaders who also share this quality - willing to take a bullet for the Cause. This is why the movie had a long wind up to the finale.. character development for Mike Terry. You know a man from his words and his actions. That takes time to witness.

Hopefully America can return to an era espoused in the 2007 Documentary, "In the Shadow of the Moon" where we parade around the world after having landed on the Moon and the foreign crowds yell to the American Astronauts, "We did it!". An era when the whole world looked up to the USA, instead of fearing our 30,000lb MOP bombs that ABC news just started to predict we may use against Iran. We must turn this Ship now before we end up like the Romans. Go to the Collesium in Rome and look at the wall to see the passing of the Roman Empire. You can judge a nation by the way in which it entertains itself. MMA is rapidly growing in popularity. I wonder what this means for us.