Schindler's List is based on a true story within Poland during World War II in the times of the Holocaust. Oskar Schindler is a German businessman whose increasing consciousness of the happenings of the Jewish people becomes his mission to save as many of them as he can from Nazi persecution. From a both a non-Jewish and Jewish perspective, The Holocaust was seen as a selective hatred on the Jewish people, who were a group that did nothing to deserve such an awful ordeal. Oskar Schindler became aware of the treatment and killings of the Jewish people and decided to do something about it. He began by hiring Itzhak Stern, a Jewish accountant, who together with Oskar, would help to save over one thousand Jewish lives from the fatality of the Holocaust. Oskar had to think as both a Jewish and non-Jewish person to accomplish his goal. He had to use non-Jewish thinking in order to relate and make friends with the Nazi's, to make them think he was on their side of supporting the Germans in the war. He did this by buying gifts for the Nazi generals and doing things like throwing parties. Once he was able to gain the trust of the Nazi organization, he was able to convince them to help him with his business venture, in that the war was impacting his business and his money. Oskar convinced the Nazis that he needed Jews to work in order to benefit the Germans by making items made from metal that they could use. By doing this, he was then able to collect Jewish people from the concentration camps to work in his factory. He continued to collect more and more people by bribing the officers and generals with gifts, all while thinking in a Jewish perspective of why such doings were happening to them and how could he save more people. He eventually created a list along with Stern that included the names of hundreds of people, in which Oskar planned to request from the Nazis to work in his factory. This list along with Oskar's growing consciousness to help and save others from the cruel fatalities, led him to save almost 1,100 lives from being gassed in Auschwitz.

 It is an amazing movie, that I strongly suggest to everyone, that will affect the consciousness of everyone to remember what once was and how one person can change the lives of many.