It took me until I grew older as an aging baby boomer, to understand the underlying greatness, heart and soul of this truly magnificent movie.  It is as though I am watching it for the first time, seeing with clear eyes how a young man who has basically sold out his whole life, gone along to get along and compromised with ease, finds real love with a pure, generous, kind young girl. Yes, that is the underlying greatness of On the Waterfront.  Not to take anything away from the brilliant and sure direction in the hands of Elia Kazan, the realistic and gritty cinematography, the gorgeous musical score of Leonard Bernstein and a compelling story about mob corruption and infiltration of unions on the New York waterfront in the 1950's.  However, this movie's timeless essence rests on the story of Terry Malloy as played by the incomparable Marlon Brando, and his journey from bum to real life contender.  He finds his way with the help of Edie Doyle, played by Eva Marie Saint in a truly stunning debut and a caring priest, played by the reliably solid and earnest Karl Malden.

Marlon Brando shows us the inner struggle of Terry Malloy, as he grapples with guilt over helping to set up his childhood friend, who is murdered by the corrupt mob boss who now runs the waterfront union with an iron hand.  Brando makes us care about this young man who has had so many hard knocks and seems tough and uncaring on the outside, but as Edie tells her father - "he tries to act tough, but there's a look in his eye".  She sees the vulnerability and neediness inside him.  When Terry urges Edie to stay in the cafe where they are having their first drink and essentially first date, he says - "no, don't leave.  I've got my whole life to drink".  His eyes show us the humanity that yearns to connect, to feel, to love, to be better.  Edie's tenderness and love bring out his own innate goodness and give him the strength to fight a real life battle that will be far more difficult than any he fought in the ring.  What can one say about Marlon Brando in this role that has not already been said by so many others?  He is simply, powerfully stunning.  It is a tour-de-force performance in a film filled with great performances by a pitch perfect cast.  He brings Terry Malloy to life as a flesh and blood man who wants to do the right thing, but needs a little help to find his way.

The movie builds to a powerful, dramatic climax and an ending that will give you chills down your spine.  Terry finds the courage to fight back against the mobsters who control the union and the lives of its members.  The now iconic scene in the cab with Terry and his brother, still resonates just as strongly.  Brando's line - "I could've been a contenda, I could've been somebody", is filled with so much lost hope, poignancy and sadness, that the audience cannot help but cheer for him to come back.  Come back he does!  I will leave the details for everyone to see for themselves.  It will leave you moved, inspired and once more believing in the power of one man to fight back and reclaim himself.  The final scene is perfect from start to finish.  The music, those horns mournfully sounding, rising to a cacophonous blast as Terry ultimately triumphs in the end, will leave you wanting to cheer.  I actually did stand up, cheer and applaud at the end, even though I have seen the movie too many times to count.  This time I found the real message - redemption!  A young man who turns his life around and becomes a somebody outside of the ring.  When Terry turns to Edie as he prepares to go back down to the docks one last time, he says - "they always said I was a bum.  Well, Edie, I ain't a bum. Don't worry, I'm not gonna hurt anybody.  I'm just gonna go down there and get my rights", there is a new determination and pride, a conviction that was not in this young man in the beginning.

This is a must-see movie for everyone!  It has stood the test of time, because it is about a classic battle of guilt and conscience overcoming one's fear of fighting back, doing the right thing and standing up to the biggest of bullies, how one man can really make a difference and change his life and finally, how it is never too late to find your true self with the help of real, undying love.  I feel transformed now that I have revisited this classic, one of the greatest movies of all time.  You will be reborn and renewed and remember how a truly astounding cinematic masterpiece can make you feel more alive than ever.