It's generally a good sign that when a big name producer/director is tagged to a movie with a "Presents" or "Produced by" line that something is amiss.  Shame on Cameron for this pathetic marketing grab.  I cannot fathom how this man felt this movie would help his reputation.

Sanctum is a terrible movie experience.  I found nothing redeeming in this mish-mash of movie cliches and horrible wastes of money.

1.  The acting is atrocious.  Everyone is over-acting or just failing miserably in every sense of the word.  Not only is there a sheer lack of talent here but they show absolutely no conscious ability to even remotely get into the situation they are supposed to be in.  However this is due to two larger issues as well.

2.  Embarrassing writing.  The screenplay for this film is a giant steaming turd.  The characters are all unlikable.  Not a single one has any redeeming trait.  The film basically moves from one terrible movie cliche to the next.  We have the pouty teenage boy rebelling from his famous explorer dad, the over cocky no fear rich guy with his snotty out of her league girlfriend, the abrasive father who pushes too hard, and the sage sidekick with some ironic ailment for the job he is doing.  Everything in this film is predictable and the writers didn't seem to care.  Whats worse is the pathetic attempts to generate drama are insulting.  The father son quarrels and bonding moments a midst a major disaster are just ludicrous and had me literally cursing the screen.

3.  Directing.  The director got nothing out of his actors here and most likely was incompetent to do anything different.  The actors had no flow.  One minute they would be screaming and crying, the next minute they are smiling, joking around and taking pictures like tourists.  This is not just bad acting, it's bad directing.  Clearly the actors were losing their sense of direction from a broken up shooting schedule.  The director should have kept them in the moment but failed to do so.  The main character is this no name teenage boy whose basic range of acting is grinning like a moron to squinting really hard when trying to cry.  Just pathetic.

4.  Cinematography.  The main character in this film was supposed to be the cave but the combination of terrible camera work combined with shoddy CGI just made the whole film look terrible.  Half the time you couldn't see anything because the cameras just couldn't catch the action.  Camera angles and positions were poorly chosen and I suspect budget concerns didn't allow for many reshoots.  Later on in the film they give you wide angle shots of CGI caves that are so far back you can't make anything out.  Much of the film has you starring at a rock wall with no clue where you are supposed to look.

By about halfway through the film I stopped caring if these morons made it out of the cave alive.  Perhaps most insulting was how it climaxes.  There was no story, just some cheesy disaster film thrown together with no direction and a lot of bogus cheesy film cliches.  Waste of time and money.  Don't even rent this one.  It only encourages them to make more of this trash.  Shame on you James Cameron indeed!