This film is of course most appealing to fans of early 80's indie music.  The film has the that "sex, drugs, and rockin-roll" approach to it and presents these aspects of the music scene and clubs which is quite prevelant among fans and musicians of many types of music.  Thus, a commonality that many can relate to, even if not a fan of the type of music the film is about. And, hey, ths is what these people did, partied and and made records, thus the name--"24 hour..." Like many musicians, some of them had their ups and downs with drugs and alcohol too.  (Also, if you liked "Trainspotting", you'll like this film--it has the same feel as others have said too.) Namely, Factory records label artists, Joy Divison, New Order, Happy Mondays, Durutti Column,(hey what about Section 25?), A Certain Ratio, etc. are the subject of the film.  
I liked the voice over documentary style of the movie and having Steve Coogan as Tony Wilson was brillant--that made the movie.  As he stated in the film, it was made about the music.  However, I was left wanting more music and more scenes with the bands to give more of a feel of their part in it all.  I liked the Joy Divison scenes and that was so subtely done, even Ian Curtis' suicide scene--here was more story that could have been done here leading up to it, but the JD fans know the story.  Likewise, I'm parial to New Order and wanted to see more of their influence and presence in the movie and music.  It seems the Happy Mondays got the most attention in the film and even left the impression that they were Factory's and Tony Wilson's favorate group  (but not the favorate Factory artist of the fans I don't think--but hey this label wasn't about popularity.)  Still JD/New Order put Factory on the map, so I'd thought we see more of them.  
Another thing, as a couple of previous reviewers have mentioned,this film is hard to follow.  I mean it seems to flow well, but things aren't explained much--maybe its better that way--but then you have to be a fan and know the history to really understand ansd enjoy it fully. It is never really clear what year it is in the film, except at the beginning and then at key scenes, like Ian Curtis'and Martin Hannett's deaths if you know when that was (the film doesn't reveal this.)  The rest of the time it just moves through a series of scenes without any sense of time. In addition, not trying to be a complainer, but I wish the on screen text bubbles, like the names of bands, etc. that pop up through the movie, were more clear--couldn't hardly read what they said--this obviously is a technical detail.
Hey, all in all, and blah, blah, blah, this was an entertaining film for music lovers, esp. of these fore mentioned bands.  I viewed the VHS, but not yet the DVD, but would just to see the extra goodies included, being a big fan of these bands I grew up with in high schhool, although me in the U.S. and they in England.  Glad their music first found its way over here to the more progressive record shops and radio stations at the time.  If only this record company, club, and bands could have lasted longer... but I think many will remember and remain fans. Perhaps, if anything, like the song, New Order is "Here to Stay."