500 previous reviews have said it all, but some observations on a movie that has some twists and turns and more depth than one might first imagine in a blatant tear-jerker:

clasic stereotypical rich girl wants poor boy plot works in this semi-period piece; enough old cars, military uniforms and swing music to evoke world war II era.  pre-integration south is not portrayed as retarded or evil.

allie's dad was a disconcerting combination of leon redbone and leroy nieman or maybe rollie fingers with that mustache of his; comedic effect detracted from taking his character (long-suffering daddy to little girl...) seriously, but he was most sketchy major character anyway.

allie's mom was lee-remickish and alluring for a semi-old broad and, consistent with complexity of situation, not the witch in the end you thought she was in the beginning.  goes to show everybody's got a secret of their own...

aging of noah was somewhat unbelievable; ryan gosling is evidently too youthful to look older without a beard and long hair, but it was out of place in the late 40s and early 50's south.  and his character starts out like a young robert deniro and ends up like a middle-aged jeff daniels.

allie showed gymnast's agility in the way she kept jumping up on noah and wrapping her legs around him, even on public streets; while that was great to fantasize about, it was again, disconcerting.  as was her penchant for continually slapping and hitting him when she got mad.  that would have caused me to wonder about the future with a woman like that, notwithstanding her obvious upside...

thought movie showed some depth by not protraying rich, handsome other-guy lon as bad, possessive or abusive but instead as a decent guy.  life is that way, there can be two good guys, hence a girl's dilemma of which to chose.

thought gena rowlands did excellent job of portraying the fear in an old person who knows they are losing it but can't help it.  and james garner did excellent job of protraying the helpless spouse who can only do what he can and watch his loved one's inexorable deterioration.  never saw him cry real tears before; it was heart-wrenching.

wish there were more acting jobs for old pros; maybe there will be as boomers age and want to watch themselves on the screen.

movie makes it no surprise that noah and allie in the story that takes place in the 40's are the older couple in the present; best plot twist of all, i thought, which is low-keyed, is who wrote the notebook...  it ain't who you think, but it drives home the ultimate message of the movie.

definitely recommend renting this flick; bring the popcorn and kleenex...