Jane Austen is a fine writer, but her wordiness tends to drain the life from many of her characters.  Thankfully, Emma Thompson recognized the limitations of the novel and adapted her screenplay accordingly, enhancing the humor of the original story and heightening drama to make the film more captivating.  A cast was then chosen, made up of very talented thespians, including Miss Thompson herself.  Add to that splendid English landscapes, excellent directing, haunting music, and superb cinematography, and what emerges is a modern masterpiece.

This is no movie for action fans; it is far too cerebral and requires a serious attention span.  For those who enjoy a good love story well told, this film delivers.  The characters are three-dimensional and their dilemmas full of human drama, bound as they are by the morals and manners of the times.  Three sisters and their mother are left virtually penniless by the stricture against females inheriting property then in place in English law.  The half-brother to the Dashwood women receives it all, but his selfish wife talks him out of helping his stepmother and half-sisters.  It is up to the two older girls---sensible Elinor and passionate Marianne---to seek their fortunes in romance while lacking a dowry to help them.

Elinor finds her soulmate in shy, retiring Edward Ferrars, brother of the selfish sister-in-law, a man lacking in the usual Victorian ambitions.  Her budding romance is shelved when his sister makes it clear that Elinor is "unsuitable" for Edward.  The sisters and their mother then go to stay in a cottage owned by a kindly relative, Sir John, and his mother-in-law, the irrepressible Mrs. Jennings.  The old woman is a confirmed gossip and matchmaker, bound to see one of the two sisters hitched up to Colonel Brandon, the most eligible bachelor in the area.

Brandon first sees Marianne singing a melancholy song and is incurably smitten.  She in turn loses her heart to a dashing young man named Willoughby, who is her ideal of a Victorian-era gentleman, complete with a pocket book of sonnets.  Brandon, who loves her more than his own happiness, steps aside and even encourages their relationship, despite his dislike for the handsome rogue.

Things take an unexpected turn for the worse for both sisters---Willoughby abruptly drops Marianne and flees to London with no explanation and Elinor discovers that Edward is engaged to a shallow young woman named Lucy Steele.  The ensuing twists and turns in the plot make this film both agonizing and entertaining to watch.  Mercifully, everyone winds up happy at the end wedded to the right person.

The whole film is solidly done, but it is the acting that really shines.  Thompson is perfect for the role of the calmer sister, while Winslett is brilliant as the mercurial Marianne.  Grant is endearing as the gentle Edward; Rickman finally gets to display his considerable ability to act the part of a very good and unselfish man.  The rest of the cast keeps pace with the leads, and Hugh Laurie is indescribably funny as the sarcastic Mr. Palmer.  One very beautiful aspect of this movie, along with the tendency to get drawn into the story, is the evocative musical score that tugs at the heartstrings.

All in all, this is a wonderful example of a film genre that is so often overlooked in today's world---period romance.  More movies like this one desperately need to be produced.  Buy this one today because it's a gem, perfect for an afternoon of inclement weather with your own soulmate.