Scenario: What would you do if you were suddenly plunged into a world where nothing made sense?

"Carnival of Souls" was presented originally as a drive-in horror flick for teen consumption. However, it certainly was superior to the usual fare of the time. Had it been filmed in Europe instead of America, it may have even been given the status of an arthouse classic. It's maker, Herk Harvey, was a specialist in industrial films and, as the story goes, he made this "B" movie cheaply as somewhat of an experiment to see what he could do in broader cinema. In Harvey's only concession to glamour, he made the attractive Candace Hilligoss the lead actress and that serves as an obvious hook for the mostly adolescent-targetted audience the film would have initially reached. "Carnival of Souls" may have, in part, been inspired by a "Twilight Zone" episode called "The Hitchhiker". Be that as it may, subsequent film-makers have paid homage to this quirky little film, including Hayao Miyazaki and George Romero.

So to the plot: A young woman thinks she has survived a car accident. Then, on a dark and lonely road trip, there appears a ghostly stranger who follows her everywhere and demands her hand in a macabre dance that takes place in a derelict carnival site. Mary tries to put this aside as an illusion brought on by the shock of her accident or perhaps being the victim of a stalker and so, after having arrived in a new state, she attempts to work a normal job and lead a normal life. However, she periodically loses touch with the stream of life around her, seeming to go out of existence as far as the world is concerned. In one of these dissociation episodes, Mary is directed to a departure gate and, anticipating a way out, instead finds a bus loaded with souls who want to spirit her away. She flees from them and arrives at another gate but when she attempts to go through it, it is locked by the gate-keeper. Another interesting element is introduced when we find Mary in the dressing-room of a clothing store. She is initially unable to manipulate the lock, as if she still feels trapped in the car and trying desperately to get out: simple tasks have come to reflect her trauma. In fact, hardly anything in her world is what it once seemed. For example, the people appear as typical yokels but may hide a transcendental role as angels and demons directing her strange new journey (take special note of her annoying neighbor, Mr Linden, emerging from the waters with the other souls near the end of the drama). Mary is regularly drawn to the abandoned carnival site and wanders the grounds, alone and bewildered, occasionally startled by echoes of life once abundant there. She no longer feels an attachment to living people because she has become separated from her soul and is now a phantom, haunting her own world. This is a problem that needs to be resolved, so the characters in her strange new environment must play their part in uniting her with her soul and its brethren in death, a process she resists with the determination of one clinging to the last, thin threads of life. Mary Henry - Henry Mary, the name is interchangeable as everyman and the plot is emblematic of the dead warrior's journey through purgatory.

"Carnival of Souls" is more ghost story than "B" horror. It is themed on the unspoken dread of spiritual/emotional desolation: being "dragged" into a living nightmare, and so doesn't require the obligatory violence that attempts to shock the audience with scenes of blood-curdling murder. The eerie tale seems almost innocuous at first, but eventually inveigles its spell into the viewer's sub-conscious. I must admit, it got into my dreams once or twice, as did the creative music and some of the better cinematography.

Depending on the temperament of the viewer, this film could also be regarded as a dark comedy when seen from the perspective of a girl being pursued for her charms and talents by both the living and the dead, in a grotesque "tug of war". However, I prefer to think of it as existential horror rather than a veiled farce.

 "Carnival of Souls" has a few flaws but this can be excused due to the lack of financial resources available in its making. In spite of its "home made" appearance, this supernatural tale is surprisingly nuanced and hence highly recommended. Make sure it's the original black and white 1962 version, though, because it captures the desolate mood best.