This movie demonstrates how quickly a prisoner, no matter from what walk of life, can become disoriented, depersonalized, and deindividualized, and likewise, no matter from what stratum of life, how a prison guard can turn into a sadistic person.

This German movie, "Das Experiment" or "The Experiment" in English, is based on a 1971 experiment that was headed by Dr. Philip Zimbardo and took place in the Standford University Psychology Department.

The Stanford experiment was funded by the U.S. Navy in an attempt to understand conflicts within its prisons and, perhaps, in other U.S. military prisons.

The participants for that experiment, like in the movie, were recruited via a newspaper ad which offered compensation for participating in a two-week experiment whereby some of the participants would be relegated to the role of a prison guard and the rest to the role of a prisoner.

In the movie, twenty (20) people were selected, and of the twenty people, eight (8) of them were given the role of prison guards, while the rest were given the role of prisoner.

Like in the Stanford University experiment, the scientists in the movie version created a life-like prison, and the guards were given a number of rules (around or exactly 6 in the movie) that they were told to be sure that the prisoners follow.  One of the main rules in the movie given to both the prison guards and the prisoners was that NO violence was to be used.

However, the experiment went awry, escalated too fast into first humiliation and then violence, and ended with the death of two people.  (The Stanford experiment also ended early because of the quick escalation into extreme forms of sadism, and it was terminated within six days without anyone dying.)

In the movie, the chief scientist/psychologist in charge of the experiment would not stop the experiment, even after his scientific collegues, who aided him with it, stated that the experiment was spiraling out-of-control and should be stopped.  The movie's chief scientist's hubris was so great that he could only focus on getting a report done on the psychological effects from the experiment that he believed would bolster his career, and thus, he wanted the experiment to be done to completion (i.e, the full 14 days).

The experiment, however, spiraled so fast out-of-control that he was forced to end it.

Although this movie is based on the Stanford University Psychology Department's experiment of 1971 to study cognitive dissonance and the power of authority, at the very least, this experiment, as portrayed in the movie, is also reminiscent of Dr. Stanley Milgram's famous Yale University experiment of 1963.  In that experiment, Dr. Milgram demonstrated that the vast majority of people will follow authority figures, even if it means acting against their moral conscience.  (See Dr. Milgram's experiments, which have been replicated around the world with the same result.)

In sum, this movie shows how quickly a person from any stratum of society can become disoriented, depersonalized, and deindividualized as a prisoner, while, on the other hand, can also quickly turn into a sadistic person as a prison guard.

As for the acting, it was superb, especially that of Moritz Bliebtreu, who played one of the leading characters, as prisoner number 77, and that of Justus von Dohnanyi, who played one of the leading and the most sadistic prison guards.

I recommend this film for those interested in psychology and have read up on the Stanford University experiment that it was based on, as well as Dr. Milgram's experiment regarding the power of authority.  Otherwise, this film may simply come across as disturbing.