I like this film, but it is a negative movie in the extreme. So much of what I write will seem negative as well. It is a reflection of the film's negativity, not a negative opinion about the film, which is IMO actually very well done as a horror film. I like and admire the work, and have no intention of ever watching it again. But I am glad I did watch it once. Once was more than enough.

I had heard about "The Mist" and of course that it was based on a Stephen King novella. That meant, it had to have some horrifying aspects and incredible twists. King always conjures up a good scare and the unexpected. I do not know how true this film is to the book, but as a monster flick, it's right up there and then some. The movie, "The Mist" delivers King type elements, in spades, along with a serious social commentary and morality tale of a very dark nature.

Please consider taking the title of this review to heart -- this film is deep on many levels (sometimes hard to believe because much of the human actions are irrational) and will leave some viewers feeling, well, rather disturbed. If that is your cup of tea, you'll love it. If disturbing films aren't to your liking, you may not enjoy it.

In fact, as much as I admire the film (it is extremely well made), I have absolutely no desire to see it again, any more than I have a desire to whack my thumb with a hammer. Because that is basically what "The Mist" is, a mental whack with a hammer, over and over again! Curiosity (which got me to watch the film) can sometimes be a very unfortunate thing!

The story is a mix of very weak sci-fi and mostly horror.

Many reviewers liken it to 50's monster flicks, but nothing in the 50's was as disturbing as this film is. In fact, this film does what the 50's films were trying to do - it scares the daylights out of the viewer on many levels. But in the 50's films, we knew the monsters weren't real nor could they possibly be. In this film, we're not so sure about that! And none of the films of the 50's were able to deliver a sense of loss and hopelessness the way this movie does. It's a total downer!

But the 50's were a different time and had a different audience. In the 50's monster flicks, the army, or scientists or the government comes to the rescue, the monsters are defeated (after causing a great deal of destruction of course) and we are left with a sense of hope and of a "lesson learned" (i.e. don't do nuclear experiments on lizards).

We are much more cynical in the 21st Century and have more of a sense of hopelessness. Look at all the "end of the world" movies and their disturbing popularity. Look at the "science" shows on cable TV that attempt to prove the prophecies of global destruction by religious and psychics alike. This would never fly in the 50's. Not that the 50's were a great time, but there was a sense of hope that is no longer in vogue.

And so "The Mist" is true to its time. It is utterly hopeless, which is what makes it so compelling and disturbing - if you like that sort of thing.

I say the sci-fi is weak because it is only used as an excuse for how the mist in "The Mist" came about. Basically, it's a one liner used to explain the mist and set up a chance for the human monsters to be, well, monstrous in the way history has shown us to be over and over again. Think of the hysteria of the Salem Witch Trials, the Inquisition (which went on for over 100 years) and the current wave of terrorism around the world, the riots incensed by zealots. We aren't a nice bunch. This film capitalizes on the worst in human nature. So does the news. So which is scarier?

They really didn't have to explain anything about how the mist got to be there (as the movie, "Cloverfield" offered no explanations for its monster). It might have been even more disturbing if they hadn't.

What IS disturbing is the monsters. They are many, and they are relentless - inside and out. To explain that, I have to give away some of the premise.

***** Spoiler Alert *****

A seemingly natural disaster affects a small town (probably in New England - this is based on a King story) starting with a strange and violent electrical storm, followed by the appearance of a creeping mist coming towards the small nameless town. Because of the storm, many of the townspeople have done what we all do in natural emergencies. They run to the stores to stock up on supplies.

When in doubt, Buy Stuff!

But this time, the mist catches a group of people off guard and traps them in a supermarket. The group is widely diverse and at first glance seem like ordinary folk, although there is a sense of tension in that many of the locals do not get along. This group of "survivors" (if you can call them that) have to deal with the onslaught of other-worldly monsters that are the denizens of the mysterious mist. How they do it is the crux of the film.

You see, it's not just the monsters IN the mist, it's the monsters hiding FROM the mist that are equally terrifying, or perhaps disturbingly disappointing. We like to think that human beings are capable of doing better. In this film, most of the humans are at their worst.

Those monsters, the ones in the supermarket, are US, or US as portrayed in the movie seen through a cynical but ironically parallel-to-reality view.

Several human characters are of course over-the-top stereotypes (i.e. the town "hicks", the crazy religious zealot, the cowardly soldiers), but others are disturbingly normal, who exhibit the human proclivity for following the leader, no matter how crazy that leader may be.

So we see human irrationality in full play as these people try to find answers to their situation, or find someone to blame (which they do, more than once). And this irrationality is why their actions, with each other, and in attempting to fend off the monsters of the mist, are equally irrational. The movie is pointing out how irrational many of us really are and how that just makes a huge mess.

To see people behaving in this manner is very disturbing because, ironically, we see it on the news every day, where some very vocal and sometimes violent people follow insane politicians, self-styled gurus of science and philosophy, religious propagandists, and media moguls who lead them by the nose into the depths of irrationality. In this aspect, the movie "The Mist" is NO fiction!

This is probably the social commentary of the film, that people are basically sheep, that some of us show courage, some show cowardice, and it is easy to pick a scapegoat when things get tough. All of this is true, of course, but the movie hammers it home again and again, as relentlessly as the monsters in the mist attack the humans, and indeed they do!

Of course the mist monsters are what people want to see. The movie makes use of the time-honored cliches and cultural monster icons (hence not terribly original, but scary all the same) that terrify us on our deepest psychological and instinctive levels.

Most of the monsters are, of course, insects -- horrific creepy crawly insects, large mosquito-like flying insects, nasty beetle type insects with vicious teeth, and of course, spiders, lots and lots of spiders. They are horrifyingly larger than life but not entirely gigantic, horrifyingly voracious, and painfully slow killing insects. When people are bitten, stung or otherwise attacked by these creatures, oh yeah, it hurts! There's no shortage of blood curdling screaming in this movie, and the blood flows pretty generously as well.

Of course, the bugs are not alone. We get terrified on other instinctive levels by monsters with clawed and toothy tentacles (think of giant squids and octopus, even snakes), and flying bird/gargoyle type monsters with bat wings (the old demon bat scare) who are after the insects but won't stop eating there. These creatures look disturbingly like monsters I saw in an old video game called "Alone in the Dark". The movie dishes these creatures up very effectively, horrifyingly, and almost relentlessly. They may be cliche, but they work. Why re-invent the wheel?

The ultimate GIANT monster is seen near the end of the film and ironically, it doesn't harm anyone. It's just so terrifying to see, and it is hard to forget. BUT you'll have to wade through two hours of horror to get to it.

As scary and totally unforgettable (and indescribable) as this final monster is, it's not the end of the film, though you might think so.

We do get set up for the ultimate hopelessness and the ultimate choice between life and death as we hear monsters growling in the mist just out of sight. Yeah, they're probably on the move and our intrepid few survivors better do something quick and desperate. BUT, hang on to your seat, the worst is YET to come!

The final horror and disturbance comes with the ending, one worthy of Rod Serling's "Twilight Zone". It is a "I NEVER saw that coming" ending, one that is deeply tragic and hopeless and teaches a strict moral in the most horrible way:

"When things get bad, if you act in desperation, even with the best of intentions, you may regret it."

I have read that this is NOT the ending in King's book, that he offered more hope. But, this IS the 21st Century, and hopelessness is the new fashion. The movie is a product of its time.

Fortunately, time moves forward, and hopefully we're better than the characters and monsters of this film, because the cavalry may arrive just a few minutes too late.

-------------------------

Conclusion:

As a horror film, "The Mist" is a top-notch movie. Scary as all get out.

As a sci-fi flick, well, it's like calling a calculator a computer - there just is no real sci-fi in it because there is no science of any kind in it, not a single lab coat or test tube even!

It is a monster film for sure, but that does not qualify it as science fiction, just fiction and possibly fantasy. But there be monsters a-plenty!

As a social commentary, it is cynical, cruel and a downer. It is brutally honest a product of the worst in 21st century thinking.

Acting - Top notch, totally convincing, and amazingly annoying at times.

Suspense - Amazing, cliff hanging, with the usual "NO, don't go in there!" feeling that marks the standard horror genre.

Pacing - Not too fast, they want the horror to sink in before the next onslaught.

Special Effects - Excellent

Comic Relief (often found in horror films to relieve tension) - Are you kidding? None of that stuff here!

If you liked the movie "Cloverfield", you may also like this film.

If you are a Stephen King fan, you may also enjoy the film, although I can't say how closely it follows the book.

If you like twists, and can stomach it through to the ending, you'll get a BIG surprise.

I'll never look at fog and other weather patterns the same again.

And, just for fun, take a look at you local supermarket next time it snows. It MAY look familiar if you've seen this film.