Whole volumes have been written about Stanley Kubrick's THE SHINING, proving that it is indeed a masterpiece of modern horror.  A not to be underestimated element which makes this film full of atmosphere and tension is the lighting.  Every time I watch it I'm sucked up in the Overlook's universe because of that brilliant use of light.  In the European shorter version Kubrick wisely omitted the `skeletons in the lobby' tableau, which was right for a Hammer Dracula or Corman Poe film, but not THE SHINING.  Due to this photography and lighting, Kubrick makes of the Overlook a place where reality and nightmare blend.  And then there is the way in which he approaches the story (read:  alters King's story), thereby making it a much stronger ghost story.  In particular the surprise at the end (Jack Torrance picture on the wall) is a brilliant move which leaves us with the same feeling of disorientation as when we start awake from a nightmare.  That sort of confusion leaves us - at least for a while - mentally vulnerable, a prey to the horrors lurking in the subconscious.  King's book and Stanley's film should be seen as two totally different works of art (I still consider the book to be Stephen King's real masterpiece - a classic!).  Yet, the subtler approach of Kubrick places the story on a much higher level.  Perhaps these words by M. R. James explain it all:  "the greatest successes have been scored by the authors who can make us envisage a definite time and place, and give us plenty of clear-cut and matter-of-fact detail, but who, when the climax is reached, allow us to be just a little in the dark as to the working of their machinery. We do not want to see the bones of [the] theory of the supernatural."  That's what Kubrick's THE SHINING is all about, allowing us a peek into a terrifying universe where man starts to doubt his own sanity, where he loses track of time, forever doomed (is this, perhaps, the reason why Kubrick uses roll-up titles for the opening credits, something usually used for the end credits?).  With THE SHINING, Kubrick made a timeless chef-d'oeuvre.