yes its true. this film introduced me to laughter. my mom and i saw this film together. i was very young, but i will never forget how hard i laughed. and laughed and laughed some more. i remember laughing for days afterward. it was as though i had not seen anything funnier in my whole life! the absurdity of it all! a bicycle inside a chinese dragon! men trying to cross the street with a giant pane of glass with cars racing by at unsafe speeds! hotel rooms on fire! gangsters chasing spys chasing nerds chasing howard (steve) banister who's still trying to figure out why he's being chased. cars trying to make it to a ferry thats already left the dock! and in the center of this catastrophe- judy maxwell! who in the end gets brought before the judge and...if you've seen the movie you know, if not you'll have to buy it and find out. but what you'll really find out is that this is maybe the greatest comedy of all time. and i dont say this lightly because ive seen hundreds of comedys. but like i said, i never knew life could be so funny till i saw this film. i remember getting my first vcr ( it was a wedding gift) and what's up doc was one of the first movies i bought. i had not seen the movie in years and years, but it was just as hillarious as i remembered. thank god for the vcr! and now dvd!one of the most amazing things about this movie is the vivdness of the comedy. it stays with you. a year later you're replaying a certain scene in your mind, or you'll recite a particularly funny line. you know, when i saw this film there were no vcr or dvd players! it was not like today where you can pre-order the movie while its still in the theatre. once you saw it, that was it! you had to wait to see it on tv like a year or two later, some times not at all. which reminds me, why in the world is this film not on dvd? why,why,why? i can not believe with all the two-disc special edition ... overflowing every week they cant find the time to release a truly special film. anyway, i enjoyed sharing this little bit of self-nostalgia, and i hope you enjoy the film.