The film Antwone Fisher, is a fact-based docudrama about the journey of a soft spoken and bright African American navy officer who, despite the most inauspicious circumstances and incredible odds, is able to overcome tremendous hardships, find his real family, and ultimately, himself. Antwone Fisher is a real underdog story that everyone can relate to: conquering adversities which stem from rough beginnings before being able to face up to the future.

Antwone Fisher was literally born in tragic circumstances: while his mother, if you can call her that, was in jail and after his father had been shot and killed. However, these would only be the beginning of his tragic childhood. Within the first few weeks of his life, he would be placed in the terrible hands of an abusive foster family, leaving him to be physically and emotionally abused by them for more than 10 years of his childhood. Fisher grew up feeling abandoned and hurt as he had been deprived of love and hope--the essential ingredients of a nurturing environment for children. However, things only got worse. Having felt the shame of being unwanted his whole life and having everyone leave him, he is filled with pain and anger. Moreover, witnessing the tragic death of his childhood best friend compounds his feeling of abandonment and unwillingness to trust and love. Eventually, Fisher joins the Navy, which is where the movie picks up.

At the start of the film, Fisher played by Hollywood newcomer Derek Luke, has joined the navy. However, due to his violent temper, Fisher attacks another Navy man and eventually winds up in the hands of Jerome DavenPort, the Navy psychiatrist played by Denzel Washington. Throughout the movie, the root of Fisher's violent temper is gradually uncovered through flashbacks of his childhood which were shot to depict the rawness of his existence and punctuated with dialogue between Fisher and Davenport. As Fisher and Davenport have more sessions, Davenport becomes a key figure in Fisher's life: the father he never had. With the guidance of Jerome DavenPort (Denzel Washington) and encouragement from DavenPort's wife (Salli Richardson) and a female navy officer Sheryl (Joy Bryant), who plays Fisher's love interest, Fisher is finally able to reconcile with his past.

In this film, Oscar winner Denzel Washington's directorial debut, the directing skills of Washington have been combined with the superb screen writing skills of the real Antwone Fisher to create a masterpiece that is both memorable and moving.

Although the movie has a mawkish plot, Washington is able to transform this material to create an inspiring yet intense film on screen that captures the emotions, struggles, and hardships of Fisher's real past. Along with Washington's spectacular directing ability, the outstanding performance of Derek Luke, who plays Antwone fisher on screen, is able to reveal Fishers vulnerability and pain along with Fisher's tenacity to succeed in life. However, his performance doesn't quite capture a sense that there is a seething anger inside him. Fisher in the movie is portrayed as normally quiet and detached, but not seemingly to hold a rage within him. On the other hand, the exchanges between Washington and Luke are able to depict the volatile side of Fisher while the scenes between Bryant and Luke are able to depict a more tender side of Fisher, really showing why Fisher would have a reason to emerge out of his shell. The crescendo of the film shows a huge paternal family gathering welcoming Antwone into the family. Antwone finally has the family he always longed for. Through the love of a father (DavenPort) and a his real family that tragic little boy found the courage and hope to re-emerge as a new person.

 When it comes to the authenticity of the events which occur in the film, they are almost exactly parallel to the real events in Fisher's life. All of the minor changes in the film have only helped the film more accurately portray the struggles that Fisher went through in reality. The movie follows history closely except for a few name changes, time period change, and fictionalized minor events and characters. The only exception to this is that in reality, Fisher never goes back to confront his foster family after he leaves them but in the movie Fisher goes to ask his foster family about his real family. This is to show a more enduring sense of intensity and assists in depicting Fisher's genuine tenacity.

 In the film, his foster family is named the Tate's while in reality they are the Pickett's. The movie also increases the age at which Fisher's foster siblings start to sexually abuse him and portrays the foster family as better than they actually were so that the scenes are more socially acceptable. As for the main characters, all of them are real. In an interview with Antwone Fisher about the film, Fisher stated, "He's (Daven Port) a real person but I had to have him do some things that a few other people had helped me do. He also serves the purpose that he served in real life, and he also does things that other people did for me - just like the girl."

The real Antwone Fisher also stated that the movie's time period was changed to attract a more widespread audience. "I (Antwone) was born in 1959 but for the movie's sake, we decided [to change it] so that children - kids - would find it contemporary."

However, everything else from Fisher being tied to a support beam in the basement and Fisher finding his family after many years is one hundred percent true.

Antwone Fisher is an eye-opening and inspiring story that will have all audiences on the verge of tears. It not only exposes the horrors of a flawed foster care system but shows the power of the human spirit. It is a movie that will take you along the ups and downs of Fisher's life.