I absolutely loved the source material, despite the pulp-fiction style of writing - or maybe because of it - and couldn't wait for it to be made into a movie. So first, here's what was good:

1) David Morse and Patricia Wettig were "OK" (see below, though, for disclaimers).

2) It was probably truer to the source material than most adaptations.

3) Stephen King's cameo was somewhat entertaining.

4) Bronson Pinchot really shows a side of him you never saw from Perfect Strangers. There's some potential there.

5) Despite the "bad" points below, I can't help myself from watching it when it's on.

And now for the bad. Wow, there's so many to choose from...

1) David Morse, although he was the best thing in the movie and I generally enjoy his performances, didn't have much to do. He also has the unfortunate tendency to continually make a kind of strange surprised/disgusted face that make him look like he just accidentally sat on a pickle.

2) Patricia Wettig is in full "thirtysomething" mode here, with little to differenciate this character from her other one. I half expected Timothy Busfield to suddenly sit down next to her on the plane.

3) The girl who plays Dinah. Oh, GOD is she annoying. And she almost overacted worse than...

4) Bronson Pinchot. Despite showing some new acting chops, he's WAAAAY over the top here. William Shatner would wince at this performance.

5) The special effects, namely the Langoliers. As was already pointed out, they are indeed just giant meatballs with teeth in this version.

6) The cliched characters: The misunderstood "punk" girl. The geek with hidden bravery. The unbearably pompous mystery writer. *sigh*

7) Dean Stockwell is awful here. Or rather, his lines are awful. Apparently he needed some money after Quantum Leap was cancelled. "My Dear Boy..." ????

8) Much too talky. They could have cut the running time in half and made it more interesting.

9) That Dinah girl was SO annoying. Did I mention that?

10) The ending. Sappy, sappy, sappy. Not joyous relief - just sappyness. It suddenly changed from a horror movie to an episode of Eight Is Enough.

I sincerely hope someone remakes a movie version of this that can do the book justice. It really is a great little story. But this version doesn't cut it.