A couple pieces of background about the reviewer:
1. I grew up watching Mutual of Omaha's Wild Kingdom, so I love nature documentaries of any kind.
2. After seeing Jurassic Park, a friend and I said to each other that it would have been better if they had just left out the useless human characters and used the CGI technology to make a "nature documentary" about the dinos.
Naturally, when I first heard about "Walking" I just about fell over.  Someone was listening!
Those of you who have only seen the Discovery Channel version are in for a treat, because this one is far superior.  Not only is there more footage here but Kenneth Branaugh's narration is much more natural and less forced than Avery Brooks.  Mr. Brooks never got A's for subtlety on Star Trek: DS9 and he hasn't changed much here.
On DVD, the images are crisp and vivid, especially the underwater sequences and the large herd scenes.  Some of the CGI is less convincing is some places than others but overall its excellent.
For those who object to the show presenting speculation as "fact" I will remind them that this is done in the form of a nature documentary.  You wouldn't take a camera crew out to the Serengeti and say, "We think this is what Lions look like."  I think the audience is sophisticated enough to know this is just several people's best guess at a particular moment.
I loved the way "Rancor" blasted the series for getting it all wrong as if his knowledge about dinos were the absolutely dogmatic final word on the subject.  Sorry, but since your word is no more or less reliable than this show, your "rancor" is simply amusing, not convincing.
EXTRAS:
The extra disk, with the "Making-of" documentary, is an especially welcome addition.  I'd seen it on the discovery channel but it was nice to see it again.  For those who haven't seen it, it is not only informative but also extremely witty.  The filmmakers are shown sometime interacting with their creations is amusing ways, like a computer animating saying, "Hold still!" to a little dinosaur on his desk who has been "modeling" for him.