Tron was a Disney production that is truly one of a kind, a classic in every sense. It started as an idea: "What is it like inside your computer? Is there a world in there? Are there people? What does it look like? What kind of culture would it have?" Computers were still a new and fantastic kind of machine in 1982, and it was only natural that it would lead to a new kind of fantasy, something original for people to romanticize over. The creative team behind this production took that concept and ran with it. They visualized what a bit looks like and how it behaves, they defined the physical aspects of a data stream, how programs might interact with each other, and how a world made of light might look.

The artwork of this film is what stands out the most. Computer generated images were new technology at the time and not nearly as impressive as today, but that is only a fraction of what makes this movie stunning. All of the heavily stylized design of the sets to the intricate details of the costumes, which while certainly unconventional for the actors, gave their characters unique and impressionable appearances while making it look as though they were wrapped in a circuit board. Tron had a look that was all its own and no film has managed to duplicate that level of creativity since, and once you see it, it will stay with you forever.

Story-wise the film is an epic tale inside a computer. It focuses more on the fantasy of discovering a new world not outside of our own, but within it. There are heroes and villains in both worlds as the oppressive Master Control Program dominates all other programs on what would come to be known as `The Grid'. It's an adventure in cyberspace filled with action and drama that you will enjoy every second of.

As far as this DVD package of the film goes, it's a great buy. The picture is great, and the extras are fantastic. On top of which, it's a lot cheaper than getting the blue ray edition, and a lot cheaper than one of the combo pack that couple it with the new Legacy film. I'd strongly recommend it to everyone.