I was told to watch Chasing Amy because it was a profound tale that would teach me something about relationships. On first viewing, i saw nothing that could teach me a thing.
However, if you take the time to watch it once more, the true brilliance of this film becomes apparant. I have a real problem with any review that rates this film as 'despicable'.
Holden McNeil and Banky Edwards (the finest comic creation since Homer Simpson) both work on comic book 'Bluntman and Chronic', characters based on Jay and Silent Bob. Holden draws, Banky inks. Their friendship is initially uncomplicated, and it stays this way until Alyssa comes on scene, and Holden starts to fall in love with her. Unfortunately, she's a lesbian, and this brings about a lot of tussling over love and friendship between the three characters.
For starters, it's not a film about a guy falling in love with a lesbian, or even a bi-sexual. It's about a guy falling in love with a girl, but not being able to accept that she has a past, a sexual past, the details of which are pretty unimportant. Alyssa's lesbianism purely serves as the initial boundary between her and Holden, and the one from which all Holden's hang-ups about her start. Seeing Holden try to deal with this is intriguing enough, and seeing Banky deal with Holden during this time is equally as involving. 
It's about what it means to be a friend, what it means to have a relationship - what it means to be around other people who aren't like you. It's about dealing with the lives of others, getting over your own hang-ups, and taking people for what they are.
Sure, they swear - big deal. People swear, and the people in this film have more than enough reason to at many points during the film. Smith handles this expertly, making the profanities funny rather than blunt - the expletives become so extreme you laugh, because you realise any true meaning to the words was lost minutes ago.
Unusually telling, for a Kevin Smith film. Chasing Amy is moving, profound, and incredibly funny at heart. Banky alone has more comic lines than are necessary - and the film is all the better for it. 
And if you get the DVD, watch out for the deleted scene with Banky being schooled by Holden at an ice-hockey videogame.
Banky: Your mother's a tracer!