Clint Eastwood has become an icon, not just for his iconic film roles over the very long career he has had, but also for his outstanding directing. Ironically enough, the movies where he is the director AND main actor, are the ones that shine the most. (Example. "Pale Rider" and "Unforgiven")

"Gran Torino" is expertly directed and acted by Eastwood and brings that classic touch that only he can do. His character, "Walt", is not likeable at all in the beginning and many may feel that way even through the end. He is an angry man, mad at the world and all of the problems the world has caused him. He is a veteran of the Korean war--a war the U.S. lost. He is a recent widower and his two sons and their families have little to do with him unless they need something. His neighborhood is deteriorating around him. He is a racist, pure and simple, non-apologetic about it.

With all of that said, you might wonder if there is anything redeeming about the character of "Walt" or the movie. A resounding, yes. The movie traces "Walt" as he goes from being that grumpy old man in the neighborhood who doesn't want to have a thing to do with his neighbors, particularly the Asian ones living next door, to being the same grumpy old man, but mellowing out as he befriends the Asian teenager and his sister next door.

While his own family doesn't need him and views him somewhat as a burden or annoyance, the Asian family next door needs him to help with getting an Asian gang from leaving them alone. "Walt" sees a young teenager who has potential and knows that he needs to help him out with some tough love and being like a big brother. The scenes are classic and enduring. The chemistry between Eastwood and the actors who portray brother and sister is spot on.

The pacing of the movie is good and you are never bored. I was always excited as to see what would happen next and Eastwood didn't disappoint.

Many might find the movie as not politically correct and I think that is a good thing. Political correctness has its place, I guess, but in movies, I don't see a reason. Eastwood's character was shaped by a hard life and war and he doesn't mince words and tells it like it is. It is one of his best acting performances by far in recent years.

Overall, "Gran Torino" is fine Hollywood filmmaking at its best. You will thoroughly enjoy this movie and yes the title is a reference to Eastwood's character's car which has underlying significance to the story.

4/5 stars