Demi Moore sits at the spinning machine, spinning clay into some kind of vause. Softly, in the background, music plays on her karaoke machine as she crafts her vause. The song ends and the karaoke machine browses through the rest of the records and finally stops on one. The small machine picks up the record and places it on the record player. Suddenly, softly, "Unchained Melody", the song made famous by THIS movie, starts up. She continues her molding and from behind her Patrick Swayze walks in, wearing nothing but his blue jeans. He sits behind her and their hands meet on the clay and they mold together. They slowly begin to caresse each other and the audience is given a strong sense of love and passion beetween these two characters. We're sure it's meant to be...
In "Ghost", Patrick Swayze gives his best performance ever as Sam Wheat, a man who works at a BAnk and is deeply in love with a woman played by Demi Moore. The both of them seem perfect together in every way. One night, after seeing a play, Sam proposes to her on their walk home through the dark streets. They hug and kiss and you truly think that things are perfect. Suddenly, a strange man approaches them, holding a gun. They try to reason with him, offering a wallet. But Sam is suddenly forced into fighting for his life and then...a shot is fired. Sam chases the man off into the night and seems somewhat pleased that he has one this battle. He calls out to his love and when she does not respond, he turns to see her, lying on the road next to his cold and dead corpse.
"Ghost" takes us through Sam's journey as a spiritual being and gives a new and great twist to the after-life. The way the film is shot and acted is perfect in absolutely every way. Patrick Swayze takes on a completely different role than his usually "Schlong" haired characters in films like "Dirty Dancing" and he does a fantastic job. Demi Moore is also quite good as the broken hearted Molly, who has lost her love and is tossed into a world of confussion and depression, bearing tears in almost every scene. But, the true shinnig star of the film is Whoopi Goldberg who is absolutely amazing as the Psychic reader who helps Sam on his journey. She brings just the right amount of comedic value to the film which helps it from not turning into an absolutely depressing film.
As time goes on in the story, Sam discovers that there was more to his murder than a petty thug looking for money that cold and dark night. Now, with the help of a Psychic (Goldberg), Sam must save the day and his beloved Molly from the other world. But Ghost isn't just a mystery film with the ocassional bit of comedy, but it is also a GREAT love story. It is shown that though Sam does want to help, he would do anything just to be able to touch Molly again and this is shown greatly in one scenec in which "Unchained Melody" is played once again and we are given the same feeling we received at the beggining of the film.
So, let me sum up, Ghost is a fantstic film that has a bit of every genre in it and it fantastically done. There isn't one moment in the film where your eyes won't be wide and glued to the screen or they're clinched, watery and leaking. So, for those who are looking for a great film to watch cuddled up with someone you care about on a friday night, Ghost is just the film! A definite keeper!