First off I'd like to say that 'Final Destination 2' was better than the first 'FD' film which was also great.

This film has a great cast full of mostly unknowns who all did a great job particularly A.J cook and Michael Landes who play the leads alongside Ali Larter returning as Clear Rivers from the first film playing the only survivor from the Flight 180 accident in this film, Ali also did a great job.

The opening to this film is one of the most memorable consisting of Kimberly Corman(A.J Cook), your average teenage girl whose going on a trip to Daytona Beach with some of her friends when she has a premonition of a fatal freeway Pileup which has some of the best graphics and is put together so well, the price of the DVD is worth it just for the pileup scene. Its really suspencful and its cool to see each person meet there fate in the pileup. Even the opening credits gives a sense of eeriness that makes you shiver.

Now after the pileup it turns out that Kimberly just had a crazy premonition telling her her future fate. She quickly takes action and blocks the section leading into the highway where the accident will take place. While Kimberly is being scolded by Officer Thomas Burke who also would have died in the pileup, the accident happens right in front of her and many others who would have been involved in the accident. Afterwards it just becomes a chase of survival against death and its design but theres a twist with the design but I won't get into that. All the deaths are unpredictable and your just sitting there thinking that the deaths about to happen when it doesn't and then when you least expect it Wham! It happens. Each death is pretty creative and gory for those blood lovers. The ending is pretty creative and theres a lot of twists and turns along the way. The direction adds to the style of the movie when the deaths occur.

Botton Line: I definetly recommend the DVD to those people who love getting scared, and love seeing those gorey deaths. The DVD special features are great as well, its a great DVD to add to your collection. Definetly recommended.