This was compared to Hitchcock by more than a few people at the time of its release. Alfred Hitchcock. Master of suspense.

Ryan Reynolds is in a box. That's the whole movie. In fact, it's technically a spoiler, I suppose. He's in a box and he's Ryan Reynolds (which is to say, he effectively plays himself). What about that qualifies as psychological thriller, exactly? Is there anything about Ryan Reynolds' psychology that you didn't pick up fifteen years ago by watching half an episode of "Two Guys, a Girl, and a Pizza Place"? Was there anything about that experience that made you feel that watching him lay in a box for 90 minutes would be "thrilling"? If not, then you will not find this to be a psychological thriller.

Don't worry, there's a subplot. It's a scathing critique of the failures of automated telephone systems. I swear to God... that's the subplot.

Oh, and there's a theme, too. Something about corruption of modern government and corporate interests blah, blah, blah. I guess some people like movies that carry a big political message for no apparent reason. Some people like "Lone Wolf McQuade". Some people have bad taste.

And it's those people, the ones who have bad taste, who are the target with the title of my review. I take no issue with Rodrigo Cortes, the director of this dud. I believe in free art and welcome anyone who wants to make a movie, irrespective of what quality of film they make.

Critics, however, which is to say anyone who offered an opinion on this bad boy, should generally just feel ashamed of themselves. Comparisons got made to Hitchcock, and those people are out of their mind. And anyone who heard those comparisons and didn't make sure to redact them are accomplices to insanity. This isn't similar to Alfred Hitchcock. At all. Hitchcock was first and foremost a master of cinematography. This movie takes place in a damn box. There isn't any cinematography. Hitchcock was also a crafter of wild characters, men so outside of our narrow archetypal view of characters that the juxtaposition of the two often taught us something about human behavior. What does Ryan Reynolds teach us, exactly? Don't date Alanis Morisette? I already knew that.

My point is just that making such a weak comparison is bad criticism. Critics, good critics, can act as guardians of history in a way. They help us as a culture retain a high standard for greatness, because they appreciate what was great in that which was, and take time to understand why it was great. Without this, culture would be forced to reset every five years. If all you can remember about Hitchcock films are that they were sort of creepy and often based on semi-universal human fears (the only two analogies that can be drawn between "Buried" and anything Hitchcock ever did) then go watch them again. It would CERTAINLY be much better time spent than any time pumped into "Buried".