To understand these movies is to truly understand what HorrorFest and Movies to Die For IS and IS NOT.

What it IS NOT: It is not a series of extreme or graphic movies that cannot be released to the public by theaters. Some of these are graphic, but not to the point where these were being hidden away from public viewing.

What it IS: HorrorFest is however a great concept from the director of AN AMERICAN HAUNTING who is a huge fan of the horror genre. The director is quoted in Fangoria as saying, "I was pissed off that there were so many cool and different types of horror films that were made for the big screen, but weren't getting there. I really wanted to create a venue that would at least let some of them [get on the screen] for a limited time. So from that, the idea for the Horrorfest was born."

So they put the word on the street for people to send their movies to them for a chance to be selected to be part of HorrorFest and have their movie on the big screen. They received about 50 movies in all and so they selected an assortment of different horror themes for the public to see. They are not all one type over the other. They each stand on their own and in my opinion are just great.

Some more than others for sure.

I think DARK RIDE is one of those that is really, really good. Without going into the fine details on the synopsis of the movie, I will tell you briefly it is a throwback to the good ole slasher films, but this one is different where the writer and director went further in character development and creating a wonderful atmosphere.

Yes you have young kids making dumb decisions and getting killed for it, but that's what you expect when you see these movies. No, in real life no one is going to have sex in a creepy house or on a creepy ride, except maybe my friend Bentley, but that's a different story entirely. This movie does what it sets out to do: Introduce us to a wicked killer, bring in the kids, take them towards the DARK RIDE, and scare us along the way. This movie delivers!

And let me tell you...WOW!!! This ride is very creepy. The jolts and shocks came and I recommend if you have 5.1 surround, turn down the lights and crank it up!!! That's what I did and I found myself hearing things all over the room and it was freaking me out!

Most of all I am so glad there is a HorrorFest because I know for myself I do not rent straight-to-dvd horror movies because they typically look lame. Only twice have I been proven wrong and that was with SESSION 9 and DEADBIRDS. HorrorFest gives life to some movies that may have went straight to dvd and never got the publicity it rightly deserved. I hope you take the chance to experience this movie and I highly recommend you seeing UNREST, REINCARNATION, and GRAVEDANCERS as well.

I cant wait until HorrorFest 2007. It's going to be even better!