With their 10th theatrical release 'Up' Pixar continues to prove that they are the best film production studio out there today. Continually improving their animating abilities (no matter what Pixar movie it is I am awestruck at the quality) and writing ORIGINAL (sans the very average Cars) stories, the geniuses out west could take the easy route but that is not the Pixar way.

If you have seen the trailers you are no doubt focused on the balloons that carry the lead role away in his house but the main focus is that this is a LOVE STORY. The first 10 minutes are some of Pixar's best work ever which is very analogous to the first 30 minutes of WALL-E which is brought down by a very average 2nd and 3rd act (WALL-E). We learn of Carl Fredricksen falling in love with Elle, are quickly shown highlights of their happy life together and their continual goal to go on a great adventure in South America. A great adventure that they never were able to take together due to lack of money and Elle's death (this is a deeper movie than other Pixar productions so be prepared to talk to your kids).

After Elle is gone, Carl decides that he must take action to go on that adventure they never got to do. Along the way he meets up with a young boy, talking dog(s), crazy bird and an antagonist that Karl must defeat.

The animation in Up is of course top notch. The story is creative and original, and it's a joy to watch. The only thing that hurts this movie is it's not very kid-friendly in my opinion. I took my 4 1/2 year old daughter and 30 minutes in she wanted to leave (we stayed for the whole thing). I feel the main audience for this movie is adults and senior citizens (yes I am serious) with children and teenagers second this time around. Kids will probably like it but not like Toy Story, Monsters or Nemo.

For fun I will rank the Pixar movies according to me but this is completely subjective. If you search the web about the only constant you will find is that Cars is the weakest movie, as for the rest, everyone has their favorites.

#01 The Incredibles
#02 Monsters, Inc.
#03 Finding Nemo
#04 Ratatouille
#05 WALL-E
#06 Up
#07 Toy Story 2
#08 Toy Story
#09 A Bug's Life
#10 Cars

***** HIGHLY RECOMMENDED