Contrary to most reviews here, "Last Salute to the Commodore" is the BEST Colombo episode of all time.  It takes a second viewing to realize the whole show is done as a comedy -- with all kinds of clues that Falk and Vaughn and the cast are staging an episode-long put-on.  I salute Falk and director McGoohan, who had the guts (it must have been Falk's idea, he had all the power by the fifth season) to hilariously do a two-hour takeoff of the Colombo series and the title character.  Come on, loosen up critics -- Falk playing with Vaughn's arm and ear while they exchange dialogue; practically sitting on his lap in the car; the Inspector tangling Vaughn in a phone cord then having him try to hang it up in a jumble; Falk hilariously trying to scream over the drilling in the boatyard in a scene in which everybody starts to crack up before somebody yelled 'cut.' The Inspector crawling all over the boat and bizarrely repeating every technical explanation about sailing that he hears (and nearly falling in the water). Colombo supposedly whistling beautifully, like a bird, at the close just before the credits, even though he has a lit cigar firmly planted in his mouth.  Falk talking directly into the hair of the TM girl as she meditates. And driving his car in unnecessary repetitive circles and speeding short distances like a madman. The whole show is intended as a joke, a put-on of -- and for --the audience, the way Saturday Night Live or Python might have portrayed the series.  Hard to believe that the bitter critics of this episode don't get the self-parody.  The actors can hardly keep straight faces. To rate and review this one as a serious whodunit is to completely miss the very clever point.  Kudos to Falk and whomever else had the guts to purposefully sink an episode for sly laughs.  And watch Falk's eyes and the manners of most of the actors--there was either a lot of drinking going on during lunch, or somebody showed up on the set each day with some illegal smokes.  It's a full-out joke, and a very gutsy and funny one, making it the best Colombo episode ever.  I've been waiting for its release. "Last Salute's" inclusion on this box set alone would merit a Five-Star ranking here, but the inexcusable and astonishing editing blunders -- the black dropouts and sloppy cuts are shocking -- drop it to Four and almost merit a money-back demand by consumers.  In that regard, the set is a rip-off and the producers should pay.  But life being what it is, that ain't gonna happen. So I'll gladly accept Season Five and the wonderful inclusion of the magical and hilarious in-joke "Last Salute to the Commodore," THE greatest Colombo episode of all-time.  If you have a sense of humor, unlike many obviously, it's not to be missed.