The `Hostel' films are movies that I kinda wish were never made. They touch on death, pain, and solitude in ways you'd rather not think about - on situations you'd really rather not ever find yourself in. However, they're so disturbing in their themes and setpieces that it's kinda like a bad car wreck - you can't help but watch.

The first Hostel film was a masterpiece in my opinion - it brilliantly set itself up like a typical mid-2000s teen sex flick, replete with oodles of sex with sensual pop music playing in the backdrop and such, before plunging into the hopeless abyss of pain, misery, solitude, and death, all in a creepy foreign land rife with corruption and lacking law and order.

The second film was average with exception to the excellent character study of the two clients, and this third entry comes off as a pretty typical "numbered sequel"; the characters are pretty paper-thin, some of the setpieces seem recycled, the editing and pacing is super-fast, etc, and these are GREAT things in my opinion for this type of movie. These characteristics define typical horror sequels, and people complaining about them are watching the wrong movie. This wasn't meant to win any awards, but to be a quick trashy watch.

Three buddies go to Las Vegas for a pre-marriage bachelor party for their buddy who is getting married the next week. It isn't long before familiar things start to happen, and our valiant heroes are enticed by two escorts to a party far off the strip, where things start to go wrong as one can predict. Most of the violence and disturbance-facotr in this entry is, as some early reviews said, tamer than the prior two entries, with the exception of one particularly nasty torture/death early on which seems to have been cut down seriously from what it could have been., and seems almost out of place compared with the rest of the setpieces.

I don't know why I watch these movies - these are things I don't want to think about, and are really negative and depressing. But hell it's the horror genre. A decent entry in the series and a good "numbered-sequel type" horror film in general.

P.S. My favorite character in this movie has to be the (Ukranian?) guy who's in the prisoner cage for most of the movie. He gets some awesome scenes near the end and is a total badass.