..but it's still scary.  The whole "based on actual events" trick is standard for horror movies.  As long as one character is based on a real person, they can claim the whole story is based on truth, even if it's a complete fabrication.  The word for this is "fiction" and it's a concept with which many reviewers seem to be unfamiliar.  Everyone's getting hung up on this, but it's the movie's central conceit.  You need to suspend disbelief in order to enjoy it; taking a tip from HP Lovecraft, the filmmakers have fabricated "real" documents to bolster the illusion of reality in their story.  They had me fooled for a while, but the real tip-off was (SPOILER) the police footage of the murder-suicide by the first hypnosis patient.  No police department in the Western world would ever release video footage of people being killed, and no responsible studio would use such footage in a major release.  It had to have been staged; if you watch the deleted scenes on the DVD you will see that it obviously WAS staged.  This calls all the other "archival" footage into question.  If you're still uncertain, then the big reversal at the end should tip off the average-intelligence viewer that they've been watching a hoax.

But what a hoax!  Condemning this movie for "lying" to you is to miss the point.  It's not a documentary; it's a psychological horror film.  One of the most effective ones I've seen in years.

The movie is well edited, beautifully shot .. the story is well constructed .. even though it plays on all the old alien-abduction cliche's, it seems to manipulate the archetypes effectively.  The abduction experience is something that actually happens to people.  What's uncertain is whether these are objectively "real" or intense hallucinations.  Whatever causes them, there is no doubt that people all over the world DO have these experiences, and that fact scares the heck out of me.  Though I groaned at the ridiculous "aliens speaking ancient Sumerian" bit (just too much to swallow, I'm sorry) the shots of the owls gave me genuine chills .. and most of the time this movie actually unsettled me.  Few films these days can actually do that.  I was impressed.