Sidney Lumet's "Before the Devil knows your Dead' is a whirlwind movie with surprises at every corner. Very well written by Kelly Masterson, the storyline relishes in reality, while the characters develop very believably throughout the movie. No black magic here, this movie is all to real. Director Lumet's very satisfying directing makes this movie surprises even Lumet fans.

Phillip Seymour Hoffman plays Andy. A successful Payroll Manager with a beautiful wife, played by Marisa Tomei, and some expensive drug habits. Ethan Hawke plays Hank, Andy's troubled younger brother: A down-trotten divorce' who spends  more money in bars than paying for his child support. The two brothers. Besides their lineage, they share a more common problem - money.  To fix this, Andy hatches a plan to rob a jewelry store - only the jewelry store is the one owned by their parents. Since they both know the stores layout, this seems at first to be an easy job. Andy gives Hank an 'advance' to hire a thug to rob the store early one morning. Anticipating only an elderly woman employee opening the store, Hank eagerly waits in the get-away car while the hired hand walks in to take the loot; an estimated $500-$600k.

Then the plan goes way awry.

The simplicity quickly turns into a family tragedy while the characters themselves begin play a game of cat & mouse with the law, their family, and with themselves; avoiding their obligations and while confronting a growingly uncertain future.

Hoffman's acting abilities are remarkable in this movie. His character 'Andy'  is all too  believable and all to human. Too, Ethan Hawke's apprehensive and confused 'Hank' shows Hawke coming into form as a Hollywood A-list actor. He was perfect for this part. Marisa Tomei's frank, and vivid scenes, show her amazing acting talents as a trophy-wife having an affair while a drug-induced husband sails through life giving her mere luxury; without fulfilling her basic needs only her lover (Hank) affords her.

Albert Finney plays a tour-de-force as Andy and Hank's Dad. His character's persistence unravels the truth, and ultimate discovery, that tears the family apart. The ending of " Before the Devil..." is pure poetic justice.

While not a box office standout, this movie deserves more credit than it received. "Before the Devil knows your Dead' is a masterpiece: Both engrossing and, most importantly, very believable.

I highly recommend this movie!