1999 was one of the greatest years in recent memory for film.  Yet Eyes Wide Shut is all but absent from the end-of-the-year awards ceremonies and most critics lists. 
 The first thing to bear in mind are that this film  was hyped way beyond necessity.  As if the general public had any interest  in the "Kubrick" listed below "Cruise" and  "Kidman".  To them this was just another Big Actor's next Big  Movie.  Passing it off like a "real Hollywood couple gets busy on the  big screen" heightened expectations for something Kubrick wasn't  trying to achieve.  It suffered the same audience reaction as The Phantom  Menace, and made only a fraction of the money.  
Critics seemed to be  lining up to take potshots at this film.  Why?  Recent history shows us  that all of Kubrick's films from 2001 onward have been attacked critically,  and subsequently hailed as classic years later.  The same is true of most  of Orson Welles' work. Few critics took the time to see this movie more  than once before spewing their venom.  A filmmaker like Kubrick is not  going for direct emotional contact with the audience.  He is aiming far  deeper, asking the viewer to reflect on not only the images, but the  themes, and the emotional investments of the characters.  The subtlety is  not something common in today's films, and something critics apparently  can't process quick enough to meet a press deadline.  
For all those  complain that the film isn't sexy or erotic enough are missing the point  completely.  It's not about sex.  It's about many other things, some of  which linger in the background, some that aren't noticeable on the initial  viewing.  Kubrick raises questions about our institution of marriage, the  nature of faith, commitment, temptation.  That most in the audience weren't  willing to meet Kubrick, Cruise, and Kidman halfway in this meditation  isn't a comment on the quality on the filmmaking, it's a shortcoming of the  sensory-deadened society.  If Kubrick had been more in touch with today's  film culture, would he have bothered to give us this complex of an  experience?  Let's thank him for his seclusion.  
A NOTE on the DVD not  being letterboxed:  Kubrick (again, like Welles) preferred the aspect ratio  of television, and left extra space in his frame for their widescreen  theatrical showings (some are letterboxed on Home Video as well). The  Shining, Full Metal Jacket, and Eyes Wide Shut are meant to be seen in the  full-screen standard format, and therefore aren't available in letterbox,  so don't feel you're being cheated out of any compositional content.  Unfortunately you are being cheated by Warner Bros' refusal to remove the  digital figures blocking the orgy scenes, inserted for theatrical release  to secure the "R" rating.  Only in America...