"The Devil's Rejects" opens with a ten minute scene that consits of about two lines of dialogue and then just gunfire. By the time the movie reaches the thirteen minute mark, the body count is already at five. To some, me at least, I thought that the rest of the movie would be senseless violence and people just being killed with no reason or, worse, plot. I was totally wrong. "The Devil's Rejects" is actually quite good for what it is. It has a great sense of humor, or as good a sense of humor as a movie like this can, and it actually has a good plot and acting. There's a fair amount of violence, but a good portion of it is in an action movie sort of setting, so it's not terribly brutal. What I sort of liked about this movie was the references to other movies, lighter ones, done in a very dark fashion.

Supposedly, all of the characters (Captain Sapulding, Otis Driftwood, Baby) are named after characters in Marx Brothers movies. So, it's no suprise when, following a scene of a detective explaining that Groucho Marx played God in one movie, it cuts to Otis killing a Christian rock musician, saying "I am the Devil here to do the Devil's work." "Rejects" goes deeper than most horror movies in that it packs itself to the gills with action in the first half, and then in the second half it takes a break and lets the characters develop. Usually I'm all for this sort of thing, but writer/director Rob Zombie has one big problem: he can't make up long stretches of dialogue. Two characters talking soon turns into a tedious game to see who can go the longest without dozing off.

In the third act the movie loses a bit of its charm when the hunters turn into the hunted, by a crazy sherrif played by William Forsythe. Since I fell asleep a little during this part, I may have missed something, but all I think it was was the Sherrif chasing Baby around her house with an axe screaming "I smell rabbit!" Speaking of rabbits, this movie was lot better than its 2003 predescessor "Howuse Of 1,000 Corpses". This movie has more action, whereas that movie relied more on scares that it did not deliver. I don't even remember all of it, probably because I got so disinterested after a while that I started doing other things. Things in this movie could actually happen, in that movie, though, they were way too far fetched (an underground torture chamber? Crazy mutant creatures? Karen Black?)

The movie has the characters, Otis (Bill Moseley), Baby (Sheri Moon Zombie), Captain Spaulding (Sid Haig), and Momma Firefly (Leslie Easterbrook) running from the law after their far house is raided in the opening minutes. They take refuge in a motel, where they kidnap and terroize a group of singing musicians. Baby and Otis are later joined by their father, Captain Spaulding, and they jaunt off on a jolly road trip to...somewhere. They eventually end up at a brothel, a sequence which ends in a scene of crazy, random violence that had me scratching my head.

I really enjoyed this movie, but there were some parts that were a bit too random for me, but for the most part I enjoyed its mordant sense of humor and attention to detail. There is a nice "parody" of "Texas Chainsaw Massacre" that I didn't find all that funny, but more creative than anything else. Just like the rest of this movie.

Running Time: Unrated: 109 Minutes-R Rated Version: 106 Minutes

Rated: Unrated, but contains strong violence, sexual content, language, and brief drug use.