In our so-called "postmodern" period, with its pestilence of political correctness, David Lean's Doctor Zhivago remains resoundingly resonant. As Yuri Zhivago learns from a Red partisan commissar, "All men will be judged" on their political reliability. Interrogated by the cunning, ruthlessly politically correct Peoples' Commander Strelnikoff, "What will you do...?", Yuri Zhivago answers, "Just live."
  A superb cast's unforgettable performances, John Box's evocative production design, Robert Bolt's letter-perfect screenplay, David Lean's gripping macro and microscopic contrasts of the personal and the political, Phyllis Dalton's meticulous costuming, and Maurice Jarre's haunting score powerfully combine to touch us in our tenderest parts, and to leave us as thoughtful, and as hopeful, in 2002 as audiences were at film's 1965 debut. 
  The film's sole want was for 70mm Panavision, but producer Carlo Ponti either could not, or would not, afford Lean that capacity. Despite this precondition Lean crafted, in the face of contemporary reviews that were either lukewarm or condescending, that most curious, engaging creature of film immortality: an enduring cinematic triumph that audiences loved then and go on loving now. 
  Though other movies, in purely technical terms of film medium, can be judged superior, Doctor Zhivago remains my favorite because, through brilliant interplay of the film's vast scope and intensive personal focus, it captures perfectly our human experience. Doctor Zhivago distills the classical three-horned dilemma: parade in groupthink lockstep with fashionable ideologues, opportunistically go along to get along, or march to the beat of the different drummer. 
  As much as I wish to see myself as the passionate, loving Lara, or as much as men might wish to see themselves as the insightful, honorable Yuri, the wholeness of Doctor Zhivago's embrace embarrasses each of us into acknowledging the less than redeeming traits each of us must, in truth, admit. For that solitary, compelling reason Doctor Zhivago binds us, and those who come after us, in its thrall.