This is an enjoyable if grossly historically distorted account of Mozart and those around him. Please remember not to believe it! The pianist Moscheles who visited Salieri during his last illness in 1825 related that he tearfully protested his innocence to the last! Here we are continuing to believe in this nonsense.
Mozart's letters show him capable of vulgarites, but nonetheless reflects a generally sober and ambitious young man at times too full of himself, and prone to imaginary enemies, like his dad Leopold. Thus rivals are unnecessarily maligned e.g Clementi, and in this movie, Salieri. Contrary to the portrayal, Salieri was a prodigy, if not on such dimensions as Mozart. He was extremely successful as a composer, not quite overshadowed by Mozart in the 1780's yet, and considered by Gluck to be his true heir (indeed a fair assessment). At the time of Mozart's death, both Mozart and Salieri had fallen out of favour at court, since the new emperor Leopold II had no time for them but prefered his own favourite Cimarosa. Thus indeed there was no reason for Salieri to murder Mozart! In fact during this time they actually became good friends. Only some time after Mozart's death did senseless and malicious rumours start to spread about Salieri's poisoning him. It resulted in Pushkin's play, Dargomizshky's opera, and now in our times Amadeus. In fact Mozart died of overwork because he was trying to make enough money to support his expensive lifestyle (he detested being looked down upon by the nobility). What do we know of the true Salieri? He was highly respected, and Beethoven sought in out as a teacher. He was also generous towards his pupils, giving lessons to Schubert and young Liszt for free because they could not afford the fees.
Constanze did not fsir so badly. But still there were untruths, such as she abandoning him during his illness. He only fell ill after she returned from her treatment at the spa (yes she was ill, not going for fun). After his death, she proved to be an astute business woman and great custodian of his music, ensuring not only his lasting fame but also that their children were never in want. The world thought badly of her as a result of her father-in-law's and sister-in-law's relentless campaign against her.