Don't get me wrong-- I love a cheesy samurai film as much as the next guy. However, this one is more cheese (and more low-budget) than most. Kaji Meiko (who had starred in three of the cult-phenom 'Sasori' films) chews the scenery as the title character, raised for the sole purpose of avenging the death of her parents at the hands of a group of leering outlaws. 
The twist of having a female play the cold-blooded 'swordsperson' might sound intriguing, but it can't compensate for hammy acting, poor photography, sappy enka ballads, a villain straight out of the silent movie era, and slapdash plotting that looks like what it is-- a condensed version of a longer story that tries to compensate with extended narrative. The whole film has the feel of a 'quickie' that was made to cash in on the original comic series, and attempts by the filmmakers to appeal to a broader crowd are just plain awkward. Not convinced? This movie, based on a comic by the creator of the Lone Wolf series, was released after the first FIVE Lone Wolf films had hit theaters in the previous twenty months! That doesn't exactly inspire confidence....
The Grand Guignol-style special effects can be unintentionally laughable, as every slash of the sword produces a geyser of day-glo stage blood, complete with silly spray-on-the-wall sound effects. To her credit, Kaji doesn't look terribly out of place in her role, and there are some decent moments, as when she is faced with the unpleasant task of slaying one of her enemies when he has been reduced to an invalid dependent upon his devoted, innocent daughter. As a whole, however, the film can only be recommended to undiscriminating genre buffs.
If you're looking for a film of this sort that's actually worth seeing for more than spewing arteries and overwrought melodrama, you'd best look elsewhere.
Update: Judging from the trailer for 'Kill Bill,' master plagiarist Quentin Tarantino borrowed some scenes directly from this movie.  But that still doesn't make it any more watchable.  There has also been a Japanese remake that is now available on DVD.