I just rented this movie today because its one of the horror movies of my youth that scared the heck out of me as a teen adult.  I have never forgotten some of the scenes in this movie and still get spooked when I envision the various scenarios.  This is probably a good example of why a young impressionable person shouldn't watch these types of movies.  I am about to watch this movie again after not having seen it for 25 years so I'm curious to see if it still freaks me out like it did then.  I'm a big fan of the older style horror movie, lots of suspense, minimal gore so let's see if this movie is as scary as I remembered back then.  Stay tuned.......

Ok, I'm back, I finished watching the movie.  I can't believe this movie scared me when I was younger.  This is a great example of a movie you remember as a child as being "sooooo good" and then when you watch it you realize how we grow up and how time can change things.  I had to stop the movie half way through because I needed a break.  Movie had a great premise but is your quintessential "b" rated movie; bad music and bad acting.  I must say though the second half contained 2 scenes that actually had me almost on the edge of my seat.  I can't help but think that if this movie had a bigger budget and some slight story alterations, it could have been a good movie.  Except for a couple of characters in the movie, you don't really get to know any of the victims before they become victims.  This movie clearly jumped on the bandwagon of the "horror" parade of movies started by Brian de Palma's Halloween.  I can see distinct similarities in concept i.e. the same house was used as one of the murder scenes and the whole "someone's following me" concept is in both movies.  However, the similarities are conceptual only as Halloween is one of the greatest movies of all time and clearly had a bigger budget.

All that being said, this isn't a "bad" movie, I mean it's your typical B rated old movie from 1980 but if you know this going in, it's not horrible, just cheesy.