When other Bond fans first talk to me the the question they always ask is "What do you think of O.H.M.S.S. ?".  The answer to that is not a simple one.
I first saw the film in the cinima  in 1973 and was  surprised, given all the negative reports I'd heard about it, how good it  was.  Although very long by Bond standards the film moves along at a fair  clip and has the capacity to engage the viewer.  Although several of the  earlier films in the series follow the main plot lines from the novels,  from which they take their names, this is the only atempt by EON to film an  Ian Fleming book as written.
Watching the film on DVD all these years  later was a joy. The transfer is surperb the, sound crisp and short of  watching a pristine print in a film theatre this is the best vision of this  film your ever going to see. The additional features particularly the  director's commentry make this a must for any of the many fans that this  film has.
O.H.M.S.S has a tremendous "look" and the deep purple  colour that is in the opening sequence, continues in the titles and is seen  through out the rest of the film in various guises.  There was a kind of  chic fashion just at the end of the sixties after the hippies and before  the seventies gave style a bad name; this is one of the few films that  captures that time.  Just look at the cut of James Bond's suits or the  dresses worn by the girls in Piz Gloria;  it's nostalgia perhaps but I love  it!  
George Lazenby is element of the film that most people seem to  dislike and the fact that he started out as a model is usually sited as  proof of his lack of acting ability; well actually Sean Connery started out  as an art college life model. At least George kept his clothes on in the  "Big Fry" ads. !  But seriously, for the most part he looks great  in the action sequences and when he has to play the normal affable,  laughing in the face of danger, side of Bond he's at least acceptable; but  when he has to step out side of that, for instance when he confronts Tracy  in his hotel room early on in the film that he becomes less convincing.  Compare that with Sean's Bond when he confronts Tatiana in the train in  "From Russia With Love" and you'll see what I'm getting at.  But  actually his attempt is better than Roger Moore's confrontation with Rosie  in "Live And Let Die". The only difficulty is that each line  Lazenby speaks seems to be made up of several different takes, all recorded  at different sound levels, which makes him sound as if he has a perminant  attack of hiccups; still you do get used to it.  If Lazenby lacks  experience his deficiency is compenceted by the standard of acting from the  rest of the cast and the superior dialogue in this film; for example,  Moneypenny's devastating put down when Bond attempts to resign the Service  "What did you expect, a knighthood?" is unforgetable and one of  the few times Lois Maxwell's character gets the upper hand in the whole  series.
The structure of this film is very different from the others in  the series; Bond spends the first half of the film meeting and falling in  love with Tracy.  He then locates Blofeld, discovers his plan and only then  does the film shift up into the frenetic pace that we more normally  associate with the Bond films. The ski and car chase sequences that follow  are terrifically exciting and compare favourably with the best in the  series.  Then we have the final confrontation with Blofeld and inevitable  distruction of Piz Gloria.  Incidentally Lazenby's encounter with the St.  Bernard dog after the bob sleigh chase was apparently ad-libbed  and for an  untrained actor he does it better than many RADA graduates I can think  of.
Peter Hunt, more than anyone else, was the man brought this film  together as a first time director it is a brilliant debut. For instance  his choice of Simon Ravan to add dialoge to the scenes between Blofeld and  Tracy lifts the whole film.  Almost every shot seems to reflect his feel  for the book.  It is only fitting that the opening shot of the film, absent  form the VHS version, which containes his reflection in the brass name  plate of "Universal Exports" has been restored to this  print.
Many action film fans dislike this picture well they'd better  stick to "Things Keep Exploding III" which at least is better  than "Things Keep Exploding II" although not as good as  "Things Keep Exploding" although it lacks the characterization of  the other two. The rest of us can enjoy the most literate of the James Bond  films.  It's not better or worse than any of the others just different.