Kim Basinger paid $8 million not to appear in this film. If that ever keps her awake at night, let me reassure her; it was worth every cent. I have never walked out of a movie in my life, but this is the one that brought me the closest. Spoilers follow, for those who care.

This is a weird idea, about jealousy and sexual obsession taken to an extreme, but there have been weirder - the Night Porter springs to mind - and perhaps done by Jennifer's father David Lynch it could have been made to work. Unfortunately it's badly written and can't find its pitch. It tries to stake out the kind of 'beneath the veil of suburbia lie twisted people with twisted thoughts' that David Lynch has done so well in Blue Velvet and Twin Peaks, but without the conviction, and falls very flat as a result. It undermines itself by trying to leaven the horror with the kind of comic moments that Lynch pere handles very deftly. Here they're simply heavy-handed and jarring.

Julian Sands, playing a brilliant but painfully repressed surgeon, lusts after Sherilyn Fenn (okay, I'm with him so far...!), but unfortunately she's a total bitch and spoilt brat, and furthermore can only care about an idiotic jock (Bill Paxton, not his finest hour), while Sands himself is a stuttering wimp who loses all sympathy from the audience very quickly. It's an almost comically stereotypical situation that seems to have been taken from an old Charles Atlas advert, compounded by the fact that all of these characters are just SO unlikeable, to the point where we never care about any of them. However, after getting sand metaphorically kicked in his face for half an hour, Sands is abruptly faced with a chance accident; Fenn is knocked down outside Sands' house in a hit and run. He takes her inside, and operates to save her life, but in a fevered brainstorm decides he will never let her leave here, so he... amputates her legs. This is where the weirdness begins. Unable to give her up, he keeps her in the house, and when she gets too mouthy and domineering (and boy, does she), he cuts her arms off as well, turning her into a living dress-up doll, and eventually keeping her in a box (hence the title). There is undoubtedly a point about objectification of women trying to get out, but it's lost in some poor domestic comedy (although I'm not 100% sure it's supposed to be funny). Her dim boyfriend eventually finds out where she is, but when he sees her, he decides he doesn't want her (believe me, in spite of all she's been through, I was thoroughly with him at that point). But the film isn't quite sure where to go next, and settles for the part that made me cry out in pain in the cinema and nearly walk out; IT WAS ALL A DREAM. Sands took her to hospital and operated on her there, although to what effect we are not shown. So after two hours of unpleasantness the film doesn't even have the courage of its convictions and resorts to the ultimate and corniest cop-out possible. Was this tacked on by a nervous studio? Who knows. All I know is it renders the entire thing pointless as well as irritating and depressing.

Do yourself a favour and get Mulholland Drive or something instead.