Many things puzzle me about the movie version.  Why have an overture, it really slows down the film especially as the "Prologue" (the real beginning of the show, there never was an overture) follows, that is 14mins of music, you need to build the tension straight away.

The intermission is set in the wrong place, the reason it is after "The Rumble" is to add tension, they also should have left "I feel pretty" after the rumble as it seems more tragic for Maria to be so happy not knowing what has just happened.

The performances were another disappointing aspect of the movie, many overacted or seemed miscast such as Russ Tamblyn, I wouldn't be scared of him if he had a bomb strapped to him, most of the Jets and Sharks look like harmless boys, with the exception of Tucker Smith who looks like he has a bit of edge to him.

I was also disappointed in the singing, Marni Nixon's voice sounds old when you see it come out of Natalie Wood's small young body, Carol Lawrence had a sweet pure almost operatic voice that suited Maria, although I would prefer a Puerto Rican character to be played by a Puerto Rican actor.

Whoever did Richard Beymer's singing doesn't have the youthful exuberance of Larry Kert, while Rita Moreno's voice is a little too soft; Chita has that spark in her voice.  However Rita put in a fine performance acting wise.

The chemistry between Richard and Natalie is non-existent, buy Ed Sullivans The Best of Broadway Musicals which has Larry Kert and Carol Lawrence performing "Tonight", and you will see the difference.  Considering Larry Kert was gay his Tony did a much better job convincing me he loved Maria then Richard Beymer's.

The choreography and dancing is great especially during "Cool", although from what I have seen of Chita it seems slightly parred down for Rita Moreno, I also noticed the wonderful ballet during "Somewhere" was cut completely, which is very unfortunate.

What I did like was swapping "Cool" and "Gee, Officer Krupke".  It suits the show a lot more to have a tense song like "Cool" in the second act.

I also like that they took advantage of New York during the "Prologue", I wish they had shot all of it on location.

The orchestrations are great, sometimes better than the original OBC. "America" is reshaped to be a sparring match between the Sharks and their girls, great restaging, although the lyrics don't flow as well and my favourite line was cut

Rosalia: "When I will go back to San Juan"

Anita: "When you will shut-up and get gone!"

They could have easily kept this line between Bernado and Anita.

I added a star for the extras, very detailed and well presented, I especially liked the making of and interviews.

All in all not a terribly bad film, but nowhere near as good as it could have been, I know Arthur Laurents was not a fan of this movie and I can see why, however if you don't know anything about the original and have not heard the performances before, you might enjoy this film, I recommend renting it first, if you like it buy it.