First of all I think it was a travesty that this was marketed as a horror/chiller type movie which I don't think it was ever meant to be. I have watched this movie several times and I am convinced that it is all about the main character's (Dahlia Williams (Jennifer Connelly) decent into madness.
If you look at the opening scene, little girl waiting for mom to pick her up, all the other kids moms
have picked them up, she finally arrives, drunk and not in a good mood. She was raised up without any love, now that she is an adult she is having a hard time coping with life in general, couple that with
the thought that she is starting to have very severe mental problems (paranoid delusions/hallucinations).
Oh yea, did nobody seem to notice that it was raining? Not just the first scene but though out
almost the entire movie? Was it really raining, or was it just the way she was seeing the world through
her deranged mind? Her mental illness was probably a major contributor to her marital problems.
She had become obsessed with her daughter, probably over compensating for the way her mom
treated her, swearing to herself that she would never leave or abandon her as her mom did.
Again this may have contributed to the breakup of the marriage, the scene in the marriage councilors
office, in which she makes reference to her husband forgetting their daughter's birthday and
the husband explaining why that happened is very revealing to me.
No one else in the entire movie made a reference to "Dark Water" this was all in her head.
There was water but it was not "Dark". Over the years water had become evil or the enemy.
The side story about the family that lived in 10F above her apartment really did happen. There
was a little girl that did end up drowning in the water tower. But this just played itself out even more in
her deranged mind to a much higher dimension. There never were any "ghost" or people appearing
from the beyond. It was all in her head. In the end I think she kills herself, but they don't show that.
I could go on and on about every little scene but that would take too long.
I wish everybody would go back and re-watch this movie looking at it from the viewpoint I have
described and I believe you would enjoy it a lot more. I know this movie moved me very much.
Any movie that I watch and can't stop thinking about it for days is good in my book.