F13 part VIII is an average movie. Though I am not an obbsessive super-fan of the series, I do enjoy the movies. I have not yet seen part V which most people say is THE WORST in the series, Probably so, because Jason is not in it, so it is most likely abominable an has no place in the series, just as the attrocious Halloween 3. Of what I've seen so far Part 7 is the worst.Part 8 is an "Okay" movie. The premise ( like part 7 ) is good, an insane psycho killer on a boat, condemming all on the " voyage of the damned " to doom. The list of characters is interesting, and appropiate ( Though pretty much the norm ). This could possibly have the most realistic charactters ( except for Jason, but excess and sheer unbelieveability is kind of the point with him.). The movie makes a rather wise choice ( though the immortal part 1 did a better job of it ) in itroducing us to the characters. If this had NOT been a horror movie are the characters still interesting? Is there still a decent story line ? YES. This could be a good movie even without the horror plot. The only particularly out standing thing about this movie is the acting. The performances of the Ms. Van Duesen character is excellent & I particularly enjoyed Peter Mark Richman as Rennie's [ our heroine] up-tight uncle, the responsible chaperone, trying to keep exactly to shedule ( I can almost imagine him yelling " Damn it Jason, hurry up, we're behind shedule! " ). This is a pretty decent movie, by itself, but as part of the F13 series, it is not ( AND NEITHER IS THE UPCOMING JASON X!! ). One of the supposed BIG SCARES becomes a BIG LAUGH. I am reffering to Jason's face, maskless. There is a scene in which Jason scares a group of hoods away by showing them his face. This would actualy work. They would drop dead. OF LAUGHTER. As soon as I saw his face, I could not contain the laughter relizing the monstrosity was intended to be FRIGHTENING ! I will not describe it, you have to actually see it to get ( you must be open-minded of the series. Not many people saw this one, partialy because they were jaded by part 7. There is one problem I have. I have directed ( ammaturely of course ) and written scripts, and the movie simply slices up the original script ( in the script the opening sequence is a bit shorter, but more dramatic and effective ( at least as I envisioned it ) than what it actually turned out out be. I know this because I downloaded the part 8 script to my desk top.  This is NOT the worst in the series. Enjoy.