They say that epic movies can't really be made any more.  I would say that it's because we lack the innocence, not the resources because what we have here in "El Cid" is a breath of fresh air to the jaded modern (at least, to the jaded modern who does not want to be jaded).  Here is honor and courage and knightly subservience, all three being values from the past and none of which are given a showing today.  We reject any kind of submission or servanthood and indeed, there are times one must admit that the Cid's obedience goes too far.  Anyway, I suppose you want to hear about the movie.

I think the acting is great for the most part, though Sophia Loren can be a little too much for me at times.  You need to be able to appreciate the style of the acting and the action.  If you can do that, this movie has you.  It's honestly easier for me to believe in a movie if it has cheesy acting versus having computer animations which the eye immediately spots.  Also, I can't think of an epic that looked more, well...epic, thanks to shooting on location in Spain in real castles, etc.  I also appreciate small details, like filled, lived-in sets and also small ceremonial details like kissing the crossguard of a sword before battle or removing your helmet after coming in through a gate on horseback as a sign of politeness.  All these are done without explanation, and are better off for not having them.  All this is also well layered by what may be Miklos Rozsa's best film score (I'm biased).

But to return to my original discussion, what's great about this movie is that it has integrity.  Even the "baddies" have honor, one even agreeing with Heston's character at one point that one cannot live without honor.  I know it's not typically seen as "interesting" to have an uncompromising protagonist, but El Cid is so sublime that I say,"bring on the uninterestingness!"  I couldn't help compare this movie to the recent "Kingdom of Heaven", which deals with similar "Christian-Muslim interaction issues".  "El Cid" is more consciously Christian than "Kingdom of Heaven", and though this may put some people off, they would have to agree that Heston does his job and then some compared to Orlando Bloom.