Bret Easton Ellis is a writer that has NO middle ground.  You either dislike immediately and not understand what all the fuss is about or you let yourself get drawn into what he is trying to display and go along for the ride.  Rules of Attraction may be the least of his three works brought to the big screen but it may have translated the best with the direction of Roger Avary.  It is also entertaining to watch beloved TV actors and actresses take roles that are worlds apart from their TV personas.  Fans usually HATE the career choices but it is nice to see actors break from what is expected by the massses.  This is NOT Shakespeare, has more shock value than merit, but it is still very enjoyable.  If you read Ellis's novels you will see that they are an accurate although embellished account of the particular time and enviroment he is trying to illustrate.  To nit-pick his work is to NOT get the message.  These characters DO EXIST in the real world, if not as individuals, then as parts of many individuals.  They are a reflection of the time and place he is describing not necessarily any particular PERSONS.  The plot development is SECONDARY.  This movie is a glimpse into a world that many people dont know and will NEVER experience but it DOES EXIST.  There is no fiction in that.

There are Sean Batemans in this world.  Rich Kids in school on Mommy and Daddy's dollar dealing drugs to their equally wealthy and spoiled classmates.  There are Lauren Hyndes in this world.  Virginal college girls saving themselves for their true love who himself is frolicking his way across Europe with not a thought in his mind of his celibate girlfriend at home.  There are Paul Dentons in this world.  Young kids that use the college years to experiment and try to find out what they want emotionally and sexually for themselves.

This move is to be enjoyed by the viewer and not to be used as a warning label or a cautionary tale.  These worlds exist and cannot be changed.  Sit back and enjoy the voyeuristic view.  Several scenes are shot in just this manner.  The Victor Romp retold by him in the diner is CLASSIC.  Worth the price of admission or rental or time spent but so many more scenes are also well done. Many scenes are done so the viewer almost feels guilty watching the action unfold.  From attempted suicides, to dorm room date rate, to misread sexual signals, we are treated to a train wreck of instances in these characters lives.

In the end we may not love any of these characters but there is usually one or more that we feel genuinely sorry for and that is the emotion that Bret Easton Ellis and Roger Avary are able to produce from many viewers.