As I wrote in the review for the CTHD's first release on DVD, Columbia dropped the ball for not including the Chinese subtitle and omitting the two music videos by CoCo Lee.
Another release (this time the SuperBit version) of the same movie, Columbia still didn't do it right the second time around. As far as the video quality is concerned, I couldn't see too much improvement over the original release. As the video of the original release already looked darn perfect. There is not much room for improvement even with the SuperBit processing.
I thought to myself that with the new SuperBit edition, Columbia should give us the "ultimate" edition. Sure enough, Columbia did it again - for the second time in a row - dropped the "BIG" ball again.
The SuperBit version only has ONE audio track Mandarin. Even though the Chinese subtitle is included; however, Columbia dropped the English dubbed track, still omitting the two music videos (in English and Mandarin of the title song), and also not providing the additional Cantonese track which was recorded for the movie personally by Chow Yun-fat, Michelle Yeoh and the rest of the cast members. These additional track and music videos should not used up or occupy too much disc space anyway 
I would love to get the Cantonese track on this SuperBit version. Columbia should have include all three tracks (original Mandarin track, original Cantonese track - all recorded by Chow & Yeoh and the rest of the cast members, and the English dubbed version). Just let consumers pick their own favorite track. Empowering consumers and NOT to dictate what they want to choose. 
(Even though I do own the Cantonese track version of this movie on an official 2-disc VCD set (UPC 4893031007898) I ordered from Hong Kong - put out by Columbia Tristar's Hong Kong arm. It includes both the Cantonese and Mandarin tracks but no English dubbed version).(Note: VCD is popular in Asia and Europe with better VHS quality. However, VCD never picks up its popularity in the U.S.) 
The bottom line is that the SuperBit version is too limiting - only one Mandarin track and seven subtitles (English, Spanish, French, Chinese, Korean, Portuguese and Thai). I still give the movie a 5-star rating, but the SuperBit features only a 2-star rating.