I was but 9-years-old when this one came to theatres and I still remember how at that time, the movie theater held such a spell of mystique over me...something that gets lost as you get older and movies are more "every day" now.

As most might attest, the film starts off wonderfully with the opening, upbeat, thumping chords of the theme song, "9 to 5" sung by the incomparable Dolly Parton...the song invigorates you right from the start and you know you are in for a load of fun.

Lily Tomlin, Dolly Parton, and Jane Fonda are cast perfectly and beautifully in their respective roles. I don't know of any modern actress/comedians who could fill these roles more beautifully. Quite simply, Lily Tomlin is a comedic genius...and she is fully supported by the lesser experienced Dolly and far more experienced Jane Fonda. Surprisingly, Jane Fonda, already somewhat of an icon at the time, took a less visible/memorable role...but played it with perfectly subtelty and professionalism.

A few of my favorite scenes: The three girls are pulled over by the cop because of the "short" in the trunk. They know the body is in the trunk, but are trying to play it off by pretending that Dolly's character ate rat poison by accident.

Also, for years later, I was afraid to go into hospital bathrooms after the female orderly found the "body" in the bathroom covered by the sheet...by the way she said, "There's another stiff in the john"...I assumed that dead bodies were often found in hospital bathrooms.

Dabney Coleman played the perfect sexist, egotistical, lying, hypocritical bigot boss...and as a kid, I truly hated him.

Another of my favorite bits was when Lily Tomlin, in her Disney-like dream sequence, poisons her bosses coffee...then launches him out of his office window right after saying, "Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!" then sticking out her tongue. For years, my siblings and I would tease each other with the same gesture. (you'll have to watch the film to know what I'm talking about).

If you watch this film for the first time, you'll notice there are no desktop computers...nor does anyone have a cell phone. And the copy machine is almost the size of a small car. It may date the film just a tad...but the comedic value more than makes up for that. It's definitely a film for all time and women today, I'm sure, are still facing similar type situations in the office.

Now in my 30's, I'm always surprised at the number of 20-something's who have never seen nor heard of this classic film. Wow...we're calling 1980's movies "classics" now. Yikes. Are we getting old?