A technically dazzling but rather uneven and loaded piece of political filmmaking, ALEXANDER NEVSKY represents a significant departure from the style of Eisenstein's earlier, more dissonant works such as STRIKE and POTEMKIN. Here, the images are precisely arranged and timed to complement the orchestral flourishes of Prokofiev's rousing score.  The dense, subtle intertwining of musical and visual leitmotivs is in the grand tradition of Wagnerian opera and what Baudelaire famously called "des forêts de symboles/Qui l'observent avec des regards familiers" - a poetic synthesis of "correspondences," suffusing the world with protean allegorical meanings. 
It's more than likely that ALEXANDER NEVSKY was conceived, at least in part, as a repudiation of the ornamental aesthetics and proto-fascist mise-en-sc&egrave;ne of Fritz Lang's celebrated NIBELUNGEN cycle.  It also qualifies as an open attack on the inherited cultural values of the Third Reich, since the Knights of the Teutonic Order conquered Prussia early in the thirteenth century before attempting their invasion of Russia - thus contributing to the myth of "the men of blood and iron" later associated with the Hohenzollerns and Kaiser Wilhelm II.  
In addition to Lang, Eisenstein manages to work in several references to Griffith such as when we see the Germans charging on horseback and swathed in ghostly white robes like the hooded Ku Klux Klan riders in THE BIRTH OF A NATION, or when the ice breaks up on Lake Peipus just like the melting frozen waterfall in WAY DOWN EAST.  And the comic subplot involving a maid and her suitors may have been inspired by Constance Talmadge at the Babylonian marriage market in INTOLERANCE as well as the contest for Br&uuml;nnhilde's love in Lang's SIEGFRIED.  
The most disturbing moment of the film comes early on when the Crusader knights round up the Russian peasant children and cast them into the purgative holy fires reserved for Islamic heathen and Cathar heretics.  It recalls the infant sacrifices of ancient Carthage depicted in Giovanni Pastrone's CABIRIA - to say nothing of the Nazi atrocities and `scorched earth' immolations that were to happen later at the Battle of Stalingrad.  Even stranger are the Klimt-like arabesques of the final Russian Orthodox ceremonies and the suppressed hints of mercenary trading along the Baltic coast and collusion with the Mongol rulers of the Golden Horde (Eisenstein's original ending was abandoned under official pressure from Moscow).  If anything, ALEXANDER NEVSKY is a curiously double-edged hagiography for the venerable `fisher prince' of Novgorod, which doesn't seem to appreciate its own historical ironies nearly enough.