2008's "The Duchess" is an exquisitely detailed 18th century period drama, with an excellent cast and first rate production values, but just misses as a movie.  It insists on being understood within its own context, and 18th century social customs and laws are as remote as the Moon for most 21st century viewers.

As the story opens, Lady Spencer (the timeless Charlotte Rampling) is arranging the marriage of her young, eligible and naive daughter Georgiana (Keira Knightley) to the older and very wealthy Duke of Devonshire (Ralph Fiennes), who badly wants a male heir.  The vivacious Georgiana becomes mistress of a great home, a fashion celebrity and a prominent supporter of her husband's politics.

However, when four pregnancies produce only two live girls, the Duke looks elsewhere.  He takes Georgiana's female companion Mrs. Foster (Hayley Atwell) as his mistress, and moves her three male children into the house, joining the product of an earlier affair.  Georgiana's efforts to carve out her own emotional life with the young lawyer Charles Gray (Dominic Cooper) draw the anger of the Duke, who offers her a fateful choice between her responsibilities as a Duchess and mother, and the man she has come to love.

The arrangement ultimately struck between Georgiana and the Duke is a happy ending only in a very qualified way, one that modern viewers may find unsatisfying.  Ralph Fiennes's nuanced protrayal of the Duke, an emotionally constipated, thoughtlessly cruel man, as one who still vaguely senses his faults, just saves the marriage from being a scene of unrelieved brutality.  Georgiana's spirited quest for her place in the world runs counter to the reality of a society in which women had no rights, leaving her with little room to maneuver.  Kiera Knightley plays her role with an appropriately subtle mixture of naive hope and repressed anxiety.  Viewers are encouraged to watch the "Making The Duchess" special feature for more insight into 18th century customs.

"The Duchess" is highly recommended to fans of period drama, who will this well-made and authentic portrayal of 18th century society.