*Mild Spoiler Alert (But hey, the others have some spoilers too)

I purchased this movie (being my first DVD in about 5 years- with streaming no need) from Amazon after seeing it recommended to me by them.  After looking through various reviews, I figured I would like this.

This movie is about an 8th grade boy, in Canada, who is lost, confused, depressed, and in a world of hurt.  This movie is not for the faint hearted.  If you have trepidations and concerns of watching movies regarding young teens involved in sex, prostitution, running away, drug abuse ([sex] not directly shown, but well known through the movie), dont get it.

If you have ever worked with a kid who is struggling in this way, you will notice how well portrayed this movie is.  It does have some very hard concepts and problems that this boy faces- but, so does the world today.  Even if you have not worked with any kids with these problems, it is still a great look into these problems. Another great aspect of this movie, is it takes place in Canada.  These problems are endemic worldwide and are not limited to American boarders.

Dylan Walsh is amazing in this role too.  Im not going to spoil the details, but this movie demonstrates how wierd it looks to take in a kid who is struggling, but looks can be deceiving.  Walsh shows what all good people are capable of.

Some peoples reviews ask if Nathan is really gay or not.  I am extremely happy you are left with that thought.  He is a 13-14 year old kid.  He shouldn't know, nor worry himself with that.  He actually makes a statement in the movie to an older boy saying he just wants to be a kid.  Kids need not worry themselves with these issues.  He struggles to find a male role model, finds one, thinks keeping this role model requires sex, and so on.

Many of us forget that there are kids out there that fend for themselves and do not know where to go for help, never-the-less ask for it.  Having been a counselor for boys in this age group, I have seen, first hand, these issues.