If you poke through the customer ratings here, you'll notice a common theme (with some exceptions, of course): people who read the John Steakley book on which this film is (loosely) based hate the film, and folks who've never read the book love it. I read the book just this past week and liked it a lot (though it has its own share of flaws), and had to see the flick after finishing the novel. While I don't think this film is terrible, it's not anywhere near as good as it would have been had Carpenter followed the original story a bit more closely. Just about everything that made the novel special, especially the characterization of the main character Jack Crow, is gone here. Fans of the flick may be surprised to know that Crow is not the flaming a**hole in the book he is here. I found it hard to have any sympathy for Crow or his assistant Montoya. They're supposed to be hardened by the horrors they've witnessed and committed, but instead they just come off as self-centered cretins. (Despite the fact that James Woods is absolutely the perfect choice for the role of Crow.) 
That said, even if you've never read the book, you'll still find some flaws that can't be overlooked. Sheryl Lee overacts something terrible in her role as the prostitue slowly becoming a vampire, and the ending is absolutely ludicrous, defying the film's own internal logic. Most of the action sequences are done as montages (!), and the gore is a bit too over-the-top. Maximillian Schell is a fine actor, but his character (who isn't in the novel) was unconvincing and obviously merely a walking, talking plot device. There are some heartpounding moments here, like the opening sequence (one of the few scenes taken pretty much directly from the novel) and Thomas Ian Griffith makes a nicely scary vampire, even if he's given about three lines in the whole flick. His origin (which leads into the origin of vampires in general) is also quite intriguing. But that's not enough to save the film. 
Of course, anybody who's never read the novel will disagree strongly with this. If you don't know what's been left out, you can enjoy this as a particularly violent, not particularly well thought-out but reasonably satisfying action/horror B pic. Nothing wrong with that.
A word about the commentary: this is the most useless and dull director's commentary I've yet to hear. Carpenter goes it alone, and with no one to prod him into saying anything interesting all we get is comments like "Even though this was supposed to take place at night, we shot it during the day" (ad nauseam) and constant exhortations to listen to the (Carpenter-composed) soundtrack. I would have liked to know why he deviated so far from the source material - that would have made an interesting story.