First of all, understand that this was designed through and through to be nothing but a gigantic gorefest, a series of shocking scenes with ultraviolence and other disturbing (albeit a bit creative) things going on. It's scene after scene of extreme violence, splattering blood and organs, brains being smashed in with rocks or shot into pieces, dismemberments, impalements, torture, the whole nine yards. Not to mention the film opens in a way meant to put you exactly in the state of mind it wants you going into it with: A short sequence of a woman who was apparently forcibly captured, impregnated, and then imprisoned until she gave birth to one of their mutants while being tied up--you get a close-up of the blood-soaked mutant child as it forces its way out, and then, just as we think we're done with that scene, she is beheaded, apparently having outlived her usefulness. It's about as horrifying as witnessing an actual childbirth, really, but there's a less happy ending for the parents (well, at least one of them).

There is really no substance to this film at all, so don't expect it. This is purely gorn, nothing else. In fact, almost all the protagonists (primarily the National Guard, who keep getting captured and making stunningly poor decisions as expected for a horror movie) are exactly what they are in real life as they are in the film. None of them are professional actors, they're real National Guard members, which I suppose saved the filmmakers a whole lot of time and effort and kept the budget to a bare minimum. Still, they fooled me the first time through, being pretty good as nothing more than an object that screams and explodes in blood. Sometimes people can't pull that kind of thing off, but these people pull it off pretty well without hamming it up too bad, so I give them all credit for that, considering none of them appear to have acted in anything before, and were chosen to save time on the whole National Guard plot.

There's really not that much to be said here. Expect to see lots of heads being blown apart with bullets or rocks, people screaming, impalements, dismemberments, beheadings, torture scenes, rape (which is actually the tame part, as it's almost totally censored in either version), and a lot of National Guard soldiers being picked off one-by-one in a variety of ways. Plenty of variety and ultra-graphic violence and gore is here when it comes to how things die and/or suffer, so if that's all you care about like some of us tend to, then this should scratch that itch.

One last note I'd like to point out is that the film sets itself up for a sequel in the final few seconds, which clearly never happened, but I will say that this particular sequence, even if it's only a few seconds long and after you think the movie's about to cut to black, is surprisingly stirring. I can't say anything without spoiling it, but just before the screen cuts to black, we get a few extra seconds of the same scene that's unfolding in the film, and the final shot might surprise you, as it not only is rather unsettling in its own right, but it immediately gives itself room for a sequel. Even without the sequel part, it's still a cool final shot I have to give credit toward.

Bottom line: Want gorn, and don't care about substance? Well, this should be perfect. However, just note that there is virtually no difference between the theatrical and unrated versions, so one shouldn't even take that into account here. Nearly everything is totally identical with a few added frames that are totally meaningless unless you're deliberately looking for them. There's maybe two minutes of extra footage, at best, and none of it's that impressive. Don't expect an extended version or a significantly more violent version, because the unrated isn't it. But that doesn't take away the fact that it is indeed an extremely gory movie worth a watch or two for the audience into this kind of thing, like me.