I immediatly rolled my eyes when my roommate came back from Blockbuster with this as one of his movies.
"You rented me a remake!?"
"Trust me, its not".
"You know how much I like Roger Corman films, especially Death Race 2000". I told him.
"You'll see".

I was prepared to see another classic film utterly destroyed by the remake-hatchet, and to my suprise, I was wrong.

In short,its an enjoyable adventure romp with some good and some bad things of the movie.

1)PLOT - Laid-off steelworker gets framed for killing his wife. Kinda cliche since that kind of plot has been used numerous times since 'The Fugitive'.
Still, it works for the reason later on. 85% Rating.

2)VEHICLES - I'm a Twisted Metal fan(not of 3rd and 4th installment), and the way the cars(and truck) were designed reminiced of this game series. Very nicely done, especially the killer rig. Awesome! 100% Rating.

3)CHARACTERS - Didn't need the "showgirls" theme with the navigators leaving the bus. Tasteless.
The loud-mouth from '2Fast&2Furious' as Machine Gun Joe. Interesting choice.
'Frank' was nothing more than a mask. Okay I guess, but rather lame here as well.
The warden I feel redeemed things here. A look of an angel with a devil hidden inside. Excellent character from beginning to end. 40% Rating.

4)ACTION - The fight scene in the cafeteria reeked of 'Shawshank Redemption'.
The vehicular action overall was great, aside from the maneuver of driving backwards ala '2Fast2Furious'. That was lame.  75% Rating.

OVERALL -
I know most(if not all) see this film as a remake of 'Death Race 2000'. To me,its not. This film seemed inspired by the Roger Corman film. There is a lot of things that seperate it from that film. Character background. An actual plot - Blackmail, backstabbing, revenge, and some drama mixed in nicely.

However, I don't see this film ever becoming a classic. Only as an enjoyable action film. Its definatly not a perfect film. There are some things that could be removed, but everyone's tastes vary. Me, I watch it for the vechicular mayhem, and the destruction they leave in their wake. I could care less about the eye-candy. Things blowing up and getting wrecked. YES!

So in closing, 'Death Race' is not a remake to me. Just a great action film with lots of explosions, and a plot added to the mix.