I first discovered Andy Goldsworthy almost 10 years ago when, in high school, I visited the Getty Museum in Los Angeles with my friend Alex. Alex's aunt was a curator at the museum, so we were afforded a behind-the-scenes tour. Deep within the recesses of the research library I discovered one of Goldsworthy's clay dome pieces, slowly drying and cracking under a shaft of natural light from the roof above.

Fast-forward to this week and the latest installment in the City Arts and Lectures series here in San Francisco. Andy Goldsworthy was giving a slide lecture on his work and I just had to be there because between this week and that first moment of discovery, I had watched a wonderful documentary on Goldsworthy called "Rivers and Tides". Before watching the documentary, I had never realized that the clay dome at the Getty was created by Goldsworthy, but after watching this beautiful, lyric work from Thomas Riedelsheimer, I could understand why that sculpture enchanted me in the manner that it did.

Riedelsheimer formulates his vision by framing simple, locked-down shots, using time-lapse and an orchestration of organic sounds. But what he does best is to allow the power of Goldsworthy's transformations of nature to take center stage.

Goldsworthy is the kind of artist that makes you feel small about whatever silly profession it is to which you've decided to devote your life. His work (if that word does justice to his transformations) is both gasp-inspiring and playful. On one occasion, he covers an entire gallery wall with local clay and allows it to slowly crack in the dry air. In another place, Goldsworthy builds huge rock Cairns by stacking stones together vertically like a massive 3-D puzzle. His latest work, at the De Young Museum, is a very tongue-in-cheek piece- a simple crack in the granite that snakes its way from the roadway through the courtyard of the museum. When the De Young opens this week to great fanfare, a lot of people might not even notice the subtle work running through the courtyard- but I assure you the ones who do experience it, along with this documentary, will be rewarded for it.