The Marine is a film about a marine that has just been discharged and is back home with his wife. When she's kidnapped by the bad guys, the game is on. It's an action movie and I think most people can spot what this movie is going to be like from that description. So if you're not a person that enjoys action movies like Rambo or Commando then I can safely say that you won't enjoy this film. It's still a paint-by-numbers affair so it's doubtful you'd suddenly find yourself enjoying this type of film.

But I am someone who enjoys action movies like Rambo and Commando. So I waited till I found myself in the right mood to watch an action romp, and I stuck this DVD in. The movie starts out with some promise. After John Cena's character is discharged from the military, he takes a job as a security guard. The scene that followed that was fairly entertaining - with Cena throwing around his weight. While that scene is entertaining, it is also meant to show that Cena's character is miserable outside of marine life. This hints at some inner turmoil that is then left behind completely and never again brought up in the film.

Robert Patrick does a great job as the bad guy. I thought he was very good. I did not care for his henchmen as they didn't seem to bring anything to the table. Likewise, John Cena is not an actor. He doesn't need to be in an action movie if the plot is compelling but it's really not. There aren't any memorable action scenes that stick out in my mind as I reflect back so all I am recalling is the awkward delivery that John Cena had. I also didn't care for his character's wife; who was very attractive but had a quality about her that said there was nothing going on upstairs. The pair is not a couple who are developed characters; the wife especially comes off as an arrogant shrew and so as a viewer, I'm not invested in the film when she is kidnapped.

All in all, this movie would have been a better film as a focus on Robert Patrick's jewelery store heist and escape. That was much more interesting than The Marine and his walk through a swamp. But that's just my opinion.

sincerely,

R.C.