Having just recently viewed this film, I have to say that my appreciation of Woody Allen has grown tremendously.  I never realized how much of an artist he truly is.

This film actually follows a similar pattern as the old greek plays and many of the more modern plays where you have a main plot that's more serious and cerebral, counterbalanced by a second plot that's a little more earthy and comical.  The main plot involves Judah, a successful opthomologist much beloved and respected by his family and friends, who ends up having his mistress murdered to prevent her from revealing their affair to his wife and friends.  The second plot involves Cliff, a struggling film-maker who is given the odious job of making a documentary of his boorish brother-in-law Lester, a successful TV producer.

The first plot deals primarily with the shame and guilt that Judah has to endure, first over the extra-marital affair, and second, over the murder to cover up the affair.  Martin Landeau really does a brilliant job of bringing Judah's character to life.  We feel his stunned anguish when he says to his family "I've just done a terrible thing" and then making a quick recovery "I left my notes at the office."  Later, after the murder is commited, he visits his childhood home in New Jersey.  There he sees a flash back of his family gathered around the dinner table having their sader.  Judah's atheist aunt scolds his father, who's an orthodox jew, for filling the kids heads with a bunch of nonsense supersition.  There is no God.  There is no absolute moral framework.  We live in a world where might makes right, citing the murder of six million jews by the Nazis as an example.  Judah's father takes the opposite view that there is a righteous God who rewards the righteous and punishes the wicked either in this life or the next.  His aunt says that if a man can commit murder and not be troubled in conscience and not get caught, he's home free.  After a few months the murder is finally pinned falsely on someone else, Judah breathes a sigh of relief and gets on with his happy, successful life.

The second plot with Cliff has a similar but not nearly as serious dilemma.  We feel sympathetic with Cliff and yet find ourselves more charismatically drawn to Lester.  In the end, Lester ends up getting his way in life while Cliff goes away penniless, with a broken marriage and no girlfriend.

The moral in both of these plots is that life is not always fair, and that sometimes people treat others unfairly or do terrible things and get off scott free.

I have to say although the film itself is very well done, I disagree with the conclusion.  If we operate from the premise that there is no God then certainly there is much in life that is cruel and unfair and is not brought to justice.  If on the other hand we operate from the premise that there is a righteous God who sees what we do the thought of facing His judgement is sobering if not downright troubling.  Even in Judah's case, it's doubtful that he got off scott free.  He was a good man and a man of conscience and he had to carry the guilt and shame of his terrible deed around for the rest of his life.  I've known cases where that alone drove people to the brink of insanity.

Personally, I think the older plays, where the tragic character has to pay the price for his or her misdeeds is probably closer to the truth.