I watch a fair number of slower paced, atmospheric foreign films that kind of stew in their own juices. I enjoy them. I also like old sci-fi. This film vaguely reminded me of Tarkovsky's "Solaris"--a fave for me. I hope that comparison is helpful to people interested in this movie.

I enjoyed this film. It took an old B-movie story (I think it was "I Married a Space Monster"), and stood it on its head while maintaining the initial point of "what's the difference between body and mind, or soul and genetics." A lot of body in this film and I think that was part of the point. Using an old, and predictable, story or premise as a vehicle is not uncommon--we all knew how the new King Kong was going to end, didn't we--so when it's done, the thing I look for is the shape and flavor of the things hanging off that trite story line, and how it all interacts with our imposition of predestination on a flick.

A hundred plus bad reviews down below--REALLY bad reviews--but after reading many of them I sense a common problem. Johnny Dep is a cult phenomenon, but he's also a fine actor. No matter what he does, he drags a large fan base with him. I think here he accidentally dragged his fan base into a kind movie that just doesn't appeal to fans of sexy media personalities. In a way, Dep's attractiveness and sex appeal work against his proven ability to be a serious and diverse actor. I never see a film BECAUSE Dep is in it, but I do often watch films that happen to have him in the cast and I frequently marvel at his performances.

A tiny handful of good reviews of this movie and I believe every one, no matter how sincere the opinion or well-argued the case--received ONLY "not helpful" votes. I tried to remedy that. Whenever I encounter that sort of skewed voting on an Amazon item, I sense it's almost always in regard to a product that's controversial and people are voting their personal feelings about the issue, not voting for-or-against the genuine helpfulness of the review in question. Write and post a reasoned, tautly argued negative critique of a Michael Moore film or a book on Intelligent Design and watch the negative votes roll in. It's like running for Congress.

What you're seeing here with these reviews of "The Astronaut's Wife" is American Marketing Culture in action. Anyone shopping for Moore or Intelligent Design or Johnny Dep product on Amazon is already an integral part of that niche market the product is carefully designed for. They've largely made up their minds about the topics at hand, so criticism of the topic (its quality, premises, facts--or lack of them--and conclusions, all legitimate targets for intelligent criticism of any book or film) is absolutely not what they're seeking. They give "not helpful" votes to people who are not part of their niche market or (or tribe or clan or cult, to use more appropriate lingo) and add in the 100th glowing five star review that is less a criticism and more a hymn of devotion and admiration; a vote FOR the the favored topic or beloved personality at hand.

The precise reverse happens here. Fans--through skewed one and two star voting and unrelenting damnation--are letting the world know that they don't ever want to see Dep in another movie that bores THEM. This is a signal to the marketing people who help guide Dep's career and it's a totally legitimate communication from Consumers in a Marketing Culture (and really, what else are we these days?). The feedback just isn't what can be considered serious reviews and criticism.

People who disagree with the democratic mob sentiment--like that sad handful who, in the heat of a revolution, sheepishly raise their hands to vote NO in the token rubberstamp vote on whether to storm the palace--are to be slammed down hard; here by informing them (through unanimous "not helpful" votes) their errant opinion is, more truthfully, "not helpful to the cause"--the "cause" being to never have to endure the discomfort of seeing a beloved media figure perform in a film of a "type" "style" or "genre" that is clearly not enjoyed by these fans.

It's a sad thing to have to note, and I wouldn't be expecting much sympathy for such a view, but within these Amazon pages we may actually be witnessing deep truths about people's perceptions and attitudes about democracy, dissent, opinion, and dialogue.