Good biblical films are hard to find. Most of them were made several decades ago. And even today we have splendid big-screen films like The Nativity Story and The Passion of the Christ. But it's difficult to find decent small-screen religious movies.

The Final Inquiry is an earnest Christian film that seems to be loosely based on the story of Tabitha (Acts 9:36-42) in the Bible. The ailing Roman emperor Tiberius (Max von Sydow) sends the soldier Titus Valerius Taurus (Daniele Liotti) to investigate the delicate issue of the missing body of an executed Galilean rabbi. Taurus is thwarted at every turn by wily Pontius Pilate (Hristo Shopov, who played the same role in The Passion of the Christ).

To make matters worse for the harried Taurus, he finds himself falling in love with a lovely Jewish maiden named Tabitha (Monica Cruz). Tabitha has problems of her own: her mother is stoned to death for allegedly having an affair with a Roman, her father wants to marry her off to an old man, and on top of that she has to hide her new Christian faith. A romance between the two would be improbable, to say the least.

Cruz and Liotti manage to make such a romance not only probable but endearing. Tabitha practically glows, and Taurus is gallant and humorous, far more than hunky Roman eye candy. Several of the supporting characters are equally interesting, particularly Pilate, Taurus' German slave Brixas (Dolph Lundgren), and Tabitha's father (F. Murray Abraham).

Unfortunately, some of the other characters are cheesy and one-dimensional. This is a particular problem with the Jewish authorities. I seriously doubt any anti-Semitism was intended, but the actors paint their characters with such broad brushes that they come off as rather cartoonish.

To be fair, some of this probably has to do with the voices dubbed over most of the Italian actors' voices, presumably to make them easier to understand. Why not just hire actors people can understand in the first place?

The costumes and sets are gorgeous. They're very understated, as you might expect from a smaller film with a tight budget, but quite accurate based on what I know of the time period. Visually The Final Inquiry is very convincing, which helps make up for the film's other flaws.

The writers get big points for an original plotline that blends a fictional inquiry with a biblical story. It makes sense that Rome would make an inquiry into the matter of the missing body of a political criminal. What is less likely is that Emperor Tiberius would become attracted to Christianity.

Still, The Final Inquiry is a mostly solid film that is ideal for Christian teens and young adults in particular. It's difficult not to compare it to big-screen biblical films like The Passion of the Christ, especially since both films share a couple of the same actors. Don't short-change yourself by judging this one against standards it was never meant to conform to in the first place.