I had an opportunity last night to view "The Yes Men" DVD and came away with mixed feelings.  As a portrait of campaign by two politically savvy satirists, it had much to offer.  As a work of political education, it fell short on several dimensions.  The DVD itself is certainly quite professional, even nicely polished in places.  And the situations in which the Yes Men put themselves as mistaken representatives of the World Trade Organization were tailor made to evoke telling criticisms of the corporate biases, global designs, and woeful consequences of the real WTO upon the countries of the South.  But some of the humor ("the leisure suit," for example) was simply so outrageous that it swallowed up the trenchant critique it was trying to make.  Yes, the presentation of the suit did point to the silly gullibility and all-too-proper manners and decorum of some of the trade representatives and corporate bigwigs attending these conferences.  But, no: the humor really didn't hit its mark or make its political points as well as it could have.  The two highlights of the film were: the reaction of the Plattsburgh student audience to the recycled burger plan for alleviating world hunger; and the response of Australian policymakers and bureaucrats to the bogus announcement of the dismantling of the existing WTO and its "reinvention" along more humane lines.  The former showed that many of the student generation see through the ruses of global elites and recognize that many are literally selling the nations of the South a lot of "crap."  The latter pointed to the political ambivalence of policymaking and bureaucratic tools of institutions of top-down globalization like the WTO and the hopeful evidence that  even the members of this audience-bureaucratic-corporate "yes men" (and women all--could appreciate the new direction the Yes Men expressed in their reinvention ploy.  What the film/DVd lacked was a real interplay between the glaring facts about the WTO's daily culpability in global structures of trade, development, and wealth inequities and the sardonic playacting of the Yes Men and their resource people.  The viewer only incidentally picks up a few gross statistics about the WTO's role in advancing an elite-driven globalization and trade strategy.  The bottom line for me is: impersonation and satire can take this troupe only so far.  If political education through humor was the goal, more meat needed to be put on the plate.