Realizing that hundreds of reviews have been written in this space, I don't know if there is much new and original that I can add.  However, what I found remarkable was the many ways David Hare's script and Roger Daldrey's direction managed to improve on Michael Cunningham's novel.  The novel, while good, was hampered by its somewhat clumsy attempt to rewrite Mrs. Dalloway.  I had the advantage of reading the novel right after reading Mrs. Dalloway, and Cunningham's novel reads as an interesting creative writing project, but a pale imitation of Woolf's stream-of-consciousness narrative technique.  The movie does a wonderful job of drawing the connections (what Daldrey calls "leitmotifs" in his and Cunningham's interesting commentary track) between the 3 central characters.  Daldrey's camera and Hare's script, combined with Philip Glass's score (which is so affecting it almost literally becomes a character in the story) combine to create an integrated effort of real beauty and honesty.  Daldrey's theater background allows him to do truly magical things with his actors, particularly the boy who plays Richie.  The only real criticism of the movie is that it goes for Hollywood-style dramatics in "big" scenes such as the Virginia-Leonard Woolf confrontation at the train station, which I think was more effectively underplayed in the novel.  Similarly, the idea that Laura Brown goes to the hotel with the intention of committing suicide is too heavy-handed compared with the more nuanced treatment of the same scene in the novel.  The little things here are done so effectively that the film maker's apparent need to give us audience-pleasing moments is a little unfortunate.  Meryl Streep's breakdown (invented by Hare) feels forced, like an Oscar clip.  The final passage, while beautifully written, is Hare's version of Woolf, which is a little audacious.  However, my relatively minor disagreements are far outweighed by the sensitivity and integrity put forth by Daldrey, Hare, Glass, and the entire cast.  The movie succeeds brilliantly in being 3 stories of depression that are never themselves depressing.  To the contrary, the movie contains an eloquent and emotionally persuasive argument for suicide as a way of living one's life with complete freedom.  It allows us to explore the remarkable notion that sadness is not only a part of life, but an experience that sharpens our appreciation for it, and its evental end.  It speaks to the sense that the experience of life can, if properly lived, reach to a place that is (in what may be Woolf's own phrase) beyond language.  The images, the music, the words, and the actors all work to get to that remarkable place.  To this extent, the movie is not only an improvement on the novel, but is an artistic and emotional triumph.