Since their first film nearly 20 years ago, Ethan and Joel Coen have established themselves among that rather select group of true geniuses of American cinema. "The Man Who Wasn't There" only further solidifies their status, and ranks among their finest films. It is quiet, low-key, yet nonetheless powerfully searing character study, and an exploration of a culture -the post World War II years - that seemed to harken in that peculiar homogenized American madness, which is all the more dangerous for its near imperceptibility. Ed Crane(brilliantly played by Billy Bob Thornton) is the very embodiment of T.S. Eliot's "The Hollow Men": a cadaverish, dour and taciturn human being whose near-fossilized facial expression makes a cigar store wooden Indian's seem animated by comparison. He is utterly devoid of spirit, humor, gumption or direction. He is a small town barber only because he lacks the drive or ambition to be anything else. The fact that his wife Doris(Francis McDormand) is cheating on him with her department store boss barely fazes him ("it's a free country", he muses). That is until an absurd and sleazy traveling "entepreneur" tempts him into investing $10,000 in "dry cleaning", the latest technological marvel, American-style. It is then that he endeavors to blackmail his wife"s lover for the money. Without divulging further plot developments, suffice it to say that events spin lethally out of control in ways that recall the Coen's earlier "Blood Simple" and "Fargo"... "The Man Who Wasn't There" is a haunting and quietly powerful dissection of an American "everyman", as well as an indictment of an alienated society,and the "pathology of normalcy" it breeds. The Coen's slyly reinforce their point of view by referring to the nascent flying saucer mania growing at the time, its paranoid element, as well as its significance as a mass wish for escape. Do not miss "The Man Who Wasn't There", the latest gem from the Coen Brothers' seeming cornucopia of daring, original, and innovative film artistry.