Having used this video for several months now, I can recommend it wholeheartedly to anyone who needs a good workout for bellydance isolations.
Although the style is the new tribal fusion or contemporary bellydance, the workout will give you a wonderful and different way of practicing or "oiling" your isolations. For me, it's become a default workout; or rather a warm up, because I'm now so accustomed to it. I use it to lead into tougher workouts or go straight into some dancing. The first 10-minute segment makes a very nice warm up, if you're just learning bellydancing. If you've been dancing for a while and will be working with challenging movements, the whole 35 minute workout is a great idea.
Sera is a fantastic instructor. She leads you through the workout with a smoother pace than I've seen on most of my videos - and I have some 75 of them. In the bellydance category, that is. She has complete and elegant control of the entire workout which just flows without a hitch, without a moment of confusion. You never find yourself scurrying to keep pace or getting flustered. That's a perfect balance achieved for a workout. Not a word out of place and not a move out of place. She also doesn't need to resort to any whoo'ing and whee'ing to keep you going - that's how perfectly in command of the rhythm she is.  Because of this, she is singularly unselfconscious and natural.
What makes this workout unusual is the method Sera uses of exaggerating the isolation and then reining it in. She does this throughout the program. She also uses interesting methods like having you sit down to do the rib cage isolations, helping the hips stay still for that while.
Many people have found the music to the workout annoying. I found it unusual, but soon got used to it and found it had grown on me. Not enough for it to be listening pleasure, but enough for it to be one with the workout and not come in my way.
This is not a sweaty workout. It's strictly isolation-based. You see the results gradually, but surely. One day, you find that you feel a surprising lack of pain or strain while doing a chest circle or that your smallest hip movement is nice and sharply defined.
There's a mini hip movements drill on this video and I continue to find that useful well into my 2nd year of bellydancing. Again, it's a warm up and a quick get-ready-to-dance exercise.
When this title first came out, threw weren't that many others in its class around. There still aren't. Many people expected to see ATS (American Tribal Style) combinations because of the key word tribal. In fact, this video is from a relatively new style which is a little funky and stark and is all about precision-controlled movements. The basics themselves look beautiful, because of the control. Sometimes this dance needs very little other embellishment - other than really interesting and varied constuming. The six combinations on this video use the isolations taught in the workout. Going through the teaching of these combinations is in itself quite a workout, by the way. The combinations are quite challenging, if you want to do them as picture-perfectly as Sera and the Solstice Dance Ensemble. Otherwise, you can just follow along and approximate them, allowing them to further refine your isolations.
East Coast Tribal has both hard work and the "coolth" factor built into it. It's among my top 3 favorites from a list of over 75.