The film "My Fair Lady",  being an adaptation of the play Pygmalion by G.B Shaw, destroys the complete satire that is presented in the play by Shaw's cynical interpretations. Shaw's persistent and comical sincerity humanizes the social class difference, marriage, and various themes which are presented throughout the play and brings comedy and drama to a more "real" level. The film "My Fair Lady" was nominated as the best musical of the year in 1964, presenting the best duplicate of the play Pygmalion. This film did not exactly adapt to the original play of Shaw's Pygmalion, because it cracked the satire presented in the play which gave it originality and excellence. I believe that the whole satire was destroyed because of the musical part, in which the feelings and expressions showed were controversial from the real play. The whole point of the satire and the exaggerated humor and ridicule was constructed to show the myth of Pygmalion, and disappeared due to the whole concept of the movie.

The Pygmalion representation of society was taken by this musical and changed the themes presented in the play. I'm not saying that the movie does not try to keep some specific lines from the play, and tries in a way to perform the original script throughout the film, but the musical fails to do this consistently. The switching of the themes in the film portrays another feeling than that Pygmalion. The character interpretations that appear in the movie are different to those that appear in the original play which exemplify the contrast between the undeserving and deserving poor. The relationship between Higgins and the flower girl, Eliza, were presented by Higgins as an understandable man while in the play he was the most close minded, rude and detestable man. Eliza, the flower girl, acted by Audrey Hepburn was a beautiful woman whose performance was great in showing real emotions, like her attitude and her way of speaking, but lost all the original emotions when the musical part appeared. Eliza's affection towards Higgins was showed during a musical solo that the flower girl performed. Her facial expressions of happiness were so evident, that it made it very different from the play, where her emotions were mainly stated by words and not physical expressions. The singing was not actually done by the actress, but by Marni Nixon. The performances were not as excellent as what I expected them to be. The characters did not portray the real characteristics of the original play of Pygmalion. The emotions were so enhanced that it made the film a ridiculous duplicate of the play. The satire and cynicism presented by Shaw was swept away throughout the whole firm.

The ending differed in both the play and in the movie which change the whole theme that Eliza presented. In the play the ending is very ironic or almost sarcastic using a humorous exaggeration of a typical happy ending story where Eliza got married and ran a flower shop missing her days with Higgins who helped her become the women that she was. In the film we can see that it ended by Eliza staying at Higgins house. To conclude, I believe that "My Fair lady" was not even close to a good adaptation of the play Pygmalion because it destructed the whole satire that truly represented the myth of Pygmalion.