I first saw this film when I was eleven. My father taped it, and when I was thirteen, I watched the tape again and again. Being that young, I could not understand the symbolism involved, I simply knew that the movie was "beautiful." Each time I watched "A River Runs Through It", it grew in me, as if I felt a deeper sense of spiritual awakening just from seeing the movie. Now I am 21 years old and an English major, so the symbolism is much clearer.

In the film, there are two brothers, Paul and Norman. The father, the Reverend MacLean teaches the two brothers how to cast a fishing rod. The two learned to cast with a four count rhythm, with a metronome playing. The narrator Norman says of his father: "If he had had his way, no one who did not know how to catch a fish, would be allowed to disgrace a fish by catching it." It becomes clear that this simple way to catch fish, using a four count rhythm, is graceful. If a fly-fisherman swings his rod too powerfully, it might become stuck in some trees. If he swings too weakly, it will never go into the stream where the fish are biting. But the four count rhythm method of casting, is "just right."

Paul is a rebellious, golden-haired youth. His rebellion starts early when he refuses to eat his porridge. He gets into a fight with his older brother Norman, but all is forgiven. The next day, Norman watches his little brother break free of his father's "four count rhythm." He has rebelled into something courageous and original. Though despite its own unique beauty, its gracefulness is different than Norman and his father. It has less control. He calls it "shadow casting" later in life. Like the "shadow casting" Paul's life has less structure than Norman's.

Norman has always had that spiritual grace that comes with swinging the rod just right. It's almost as if he has spiritual gifts as well as his academic ones. (Norman receives a masters degree and becomes a professor.)

Paul's spiritual gifts are no less important, but they are not sustainable, because they lack the discipline and the structure of Norman. Despite his sad outcome, Paul's fishing and his life are "beautiful." They are beautiful because you can love them "completely, without complete understanding."

I wish other films were made now like this one. It is extremely effective as a spiritual project because it not only conveys the message, but the viewer feels the message, the way I had when I was thirteen. It inspired me to stay in my best structure, like Norman had.