Roger Corman has been, without a doubt, the McDonald's of the film world. Like the famous fast food chain, Corman has been the butt of a lot of unkind jokes, but keeps on keeping on, satisfying millions. While the burger giant with the clown has practiced 'fast, cheap and easy', for Corman and crew, it's been 'fast, cheap and sleazy'. A indirect rip-off of 'Alien', the premise is not any more far-fetched, just not as professionally done.

Jesse Vint is an intergallactic bounty hunter-slash-space cowboy who, on his way home, gets ordered to planet Xarbia, where a lab experiment has gone horribly wrong. Subject 20 as its known, has mutated and gone on a rampage.> A side note, something I learned from the 'special features' interview with cast and crew, the dead animals shown in the damaged lab, including cats and dogs, were real. The crew had purchased them (already euthanized and frozen) from a local animal shelter. Creepy!>

The creature continues to grow and mutate, ala cocoon style metamorphosis, each time getting bigger and nastier. The head of the research facility Hauser (Linden Childs) is mysteriously protective of the creature, for a reason that is revealed later. Vint seems almost an afterthought in this, not really much of an action hero. Basically running around spouting tough-sounding lines. But as the body count begins to rise, it's ultimately the sickly, quirky doctor (played wonderfully by Fox Harris) who comes to the rescue with a plan to defeat the monster, but at a terrible price.

Eye candy is amply provided by luscious blonde June Chadwick, who went on to star in the TV series 'V', and Dawn Dunlap, a delectable girl-next-door type, fresh from her role in the French softcore classic 'Laura'. She went on to do another Corman classic, 'Barbarian Queen'. There is one memorable shower scene involving both ladies, with frontal nudity, in which they decide they should try to communicate with the monster. Needless to say, that didn't work out too well.

Special effects are fair, and might even be considered pretty good, taking into account the limited resources and funding that was available (the budget for the entire film was about $1 million). Not a flick for the kids due to the excessive gore and nudity, but certainly a fine 'guilty pleasure' for grown-ups. While I'm still partial to other Corman treats like 'Death Race 2000' and 'Galaxy of Terror', this would be in my top 5 of favorite Roger Corman flicks. This guy could teach a lot to current Hollywood directors on how to make a decent film for far less than what they do. It's ironic that one of Corman's understudies, James Cameron, went on to direct some of the most expensive movies in history (Titanic, The Abyss, Avatar).