I don't know many who have heard of this film and the ones who have are only familiar with it because of the much talked about acts of extreme violence during the film's climaxes. Because these particular acts are pretty realistic and shocking to those not desensitized to unflinching film violence, many are turned off and will not sit down to view this feature. While this is understandable, and while it can be justified, it is too bad because the film is actaully pretty well made.

Having seen Christopher Nolan's 'Memento' prior to 'Irreversible', I had the assumption it would be a foreign version of a familiar plot (the credits rolled backward, some letters were reversed, etc). Then, while viewing it, I begin to notice the unique style, flair, and an intriguing swagger the film starts to show.

As in 'Memento', the film begins with its brutality in the beginning, and to see why it is happening is the key. Some of this review will give away parts of the film, so if you have yet to see it, I dont wish to spoil anything for you, so consider yourself warned.

The camera work starts off erratic, blurry, and constantly moving, like a fly trying to avoid the swatter. The color pallette is heavily saturated, most notably with a lot of red, which help create the unsettling and violent mood, and there is a significant amount of chaos. As the film progresses, the camera slows down, becomes more steady, clear, and comprehensible. The colors are still vibrant, but they are more soothing and create a peaceful, harmonious feel.

A wicked soundtrack accompanies this film. The eerie opening drone in The Rectum (the club) sounds like something David Lynch would use in his films. Like the camera work, the soundtrack starts off horrifying and uneasy, then begins its unwinding towards the end of the film, and ultimately becomes quite soothing.

While this may seem like a rehashing of such an original idea as 'Memento', there are a few notable differences that set it apart. In 'Memento' there is a narratation by Guy Pearce (great job in that film, by the way) to sort of help the viewer along to understand the story, the situation, and the justification and explaination of certain key events. 'Irreversible' offers none of that; the viewer is almost like that fly on the wall, looking in and trying to figure out what the hell is going on. This also seemingly justifies the violent scenes (I don't intend to offend anyone by saying any violence of this nature is justified, but for the film's purposes...). As brutal as the opening murder is, after watching the rape, if that was my girlfriend, I would probably have the same spontaneous, uncontrollable lust for revenge.

Another thing I find interesting is the very end, when Alex is in her sun dress with her hand on her seemingly pregnant belly, and the scene shifts to the blue sky, orchestra, and relaxation on the beautiful green hill. Then the pretty sky fades into a static-like pulse that brings upon the conclusion of the film. Is it a dream? Is this entire film a dream? It would be nice if it is.

After thinking about it some more, though, I am leaning towards it is Alex as she succumbes to her injuries, since she is found in a coma. Maybe it is Alex fighting for survival, as she holds on to the peaceful feeling in order to keep her life. Maybe it is her last vision before dying, her life as it flashes before her eyes, maybe her intrepretation of heaven, maybe her entrance into heaven. I am not certain, but it's something to think about.

As in the title of this review, this film is overall a well made picture once (and if) you can get past the shock value. Enjoy being the fly on the wall, because you will never ever forget that you are one of the people to have watched 'Irreversible'.

I will most likely check out 'I Stand Alone', although I heard it is not quite as good. And I love how pedestrians are about as useless as they are ignorant.

Thank you for your time.