Much like the fires that gave Hitler his excuse to seize power here is the Genesis of the future abomination that provoked a cinder block of a book that needs to be placed on the ANTI-HISTORY shelf.

The prosecutor here is the same guy who did us all the social injury of elevating Charles Manson to cult Anti-hero status with helter skelter.

recently I wrote this about the ongoing plague of lies from Vinnie

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The impending mutilation of historical reality concerning the assasination of President John F Kennedy to be perpetrated by Tom Hanks and his production entity has gone been neglected by most media outlets. This is disturbing to citizen researchers and all Americans desirous of the truth and an adequate explanation for the events that led to and surrounded the violent removal of the legally-elected leader of the free world, gunned down in broad daylight on the very soil he was chosen to govern.

To be kind I would say our government and the media have both been reluctant to allow daylight to find its way to the dark and dirty secrets that may yet lead us to the ugly truth about our collectively denied right to keep the leader we elected in office and breathing despite seemingly unpopular or controversial actions.

The forthcoming horror soley bassed on the readily discredited , more than 2,000 pages of abomination authored by ego-driven former prosecutor Vincent Bugliousi entitled Reclaiming History.

The more than $1 million he received and more than 20 years he claims to have invested in research into the wholly cumersome volume of disinformation will climax in increased insult to truth delivered to us in 10-12 parts by the obviously oblivious Hanks on the same network that vomits forth Boardwalk Empire as if it were poetic history.. The realism of this repulsive display of defective historical perspective will be more a kin to Fraggle Rock than a truthful illumination of a watershed event in American history. Yet again the our collective consciousness is victemised to support one of the greatest lies smeared generation after generation on the soul of our nation. The Lone-Nut-Gunman who robbed us all and murdered our leader by luck of the draw.

Literally dozens of errors in known facts and blatent omissions to bolster the authors conspicuous desire to persistently support and affirm the antique fairytale conclussions propagated by the 1964 Warren Report are evident in thousands of pages academic studies and research by a chorus of credible scholars, and experts in various feilds. These are easily aquired to demonstrate the factually void propeganda of Reclaiming History and yet hanks secures it for a mini-series.

The vulgar commentary of Hanks and his hollywood henchmen in conjunction with the silence from the media on this outrage prompt me to ask 3 questions :

1 Will mythology continue to be admitted into evidence on the public record masquerading as historical accuracy without a legitimate harsh critique?

2 Does prosecuting Charles Manson and profiting from it entitle a lawyer to aquire another small fortune pushing lies to the american public about a national tragedy?

3 Did Forrest Gump really read the book?

I guess we'll see in 2013 if HBO follows through with it's crime against reality.