From its gripping plot to its untraditionally brave hero standing tall amongst other engaging characters, The Big Country is a near-perfect movie. The movie functions as a sprawling allegory dealing with the themes of civility, war, and the absorption of violent Western culture with the more subtle violence of modern culture. Almost every scene is thus pulling double duty; it is adding to the characterization or the plot, and also giving rise to a deeper theme beneath the surface.

The plot features a civilized Eastcoaster, named James McKay, who infiltrates a Western town, wishing to bring about peace according to his own rules, without guns or violence.  Of course, the irony in all this is that McKay, the symbol of civility, of modern culture, doesn't in fact play by different rules at all. He simply hides his violence better. Instead of fighting and engaging in violence out in the open, he does so in private, challenging Leech to a fight after turning him down in public, or taming the wild horse (an obvious symbol for the "wild" west) alone, out of the public eye. So McKay is supposed to symbolize the "superior" values of modern life--but what we find is that these values are actually the same as the old ones, and that modern life only thrives by making itself "appear" more civilized by engaging in more subtle atrocities, by keeping the violence out of the public eye.  Thus, McKay, the civilized one, is actually a brawler, a tamer of horses and countries, a dueler, and a leader of armies in his own right, despite his attempts to appear peaceful and civilized.

Naturally, this is not the interpretation most people walk away with.  McKay only engages in his acts of courage, bravery, and violence in private because he doesn't want to have to prove himself to others, because he thinks there is no point to it.  But, of course, he does it anyway.  The viewer doesn't notice that McKay, who once proclaimed that he does not play by the rules of violence and guns, is continually engaging in and supporting violence and gun-play, despite his surface protestations.

There are, of course, further interpretations along these lines. One could interpret the movie as an allegory for the evolution of modern civiliation. Hannessay represents the uncivilized wild west, while his rival who is at war with him, the more civilized of the two with the large mansion and a larger "army", represents the budding rise to power of countries like Great Britain during the era of colonization. He is ruthless and fights dirty, and despite having the advanced civil culture, complete with mansions and dances, there still lingers the blatant displays of vulgarity and violence only on a larger scale. McKay, then, represents modern culture, after the era of colonization have been suppressed. Its evils are hidden and transformed, it pretends to play by different rules though it doesn't, and it pretends to stand for freedom, destroying the colonizing powers, all while subtly manipulating the uncivilized colonies to do the dirty work.  This is why McKay can get Hannessay to kill his enemies for him...to shoot his own son after the duel, and to kill his rival in a man to man duel.  And also like modern developed nations, after beating his man McKay will try to befriend him, as he does with Leech, and as modern nations do when they drop bombs on a country one day, and then care packages the next.

Of course, for those with a disdain for such interpretations of movies, for such "deconstructions" of the films' original meanings, there is also a wonderful story here. One can ignore all the subtle ironies I have pointed out and cheer on McKay as the hero, as the bringer of peace, and plug one's ears and pretend not to see the hypocrisy embedded in the symbolism. McKay is, afterall, a quite likeable character. He is brave, individualistic, and humble. Even as an outsider, he manages to overcome the corruption and violence of the country he has stumbled into.

Whether one views the film with the gloss of a type of allegorical patriotism, glorifying the hero as some sort of manifestation of truly "American" values, or whether one reads more into the film's subtext and uncovers the subtle hypocrisy of the hero as a manifestation of the falseness of civility, the movie is absolutely enjoyable. It is indeed strange that McKay as a person is refreshingly honest and courageous, while as a symbol for civilization he becomes a monster, a sort of wolf in sheep's clothing.  Movies that can be enjoyed for their plots with a simple viewing and which also contain interpretations and symbolism that run miles deep are quite rare.  The Big Country is thus a film that can be enjoyed for its surface and its interior, and offers a truly fine movie-watching experience for anyone.