The BBC has done it again.  Back in the 80s they produced adaptations of Shakespeare's plays.  Those were done straight.  Shakespeare Retold offers modern looks at 4 of his most beloved plays.  We have three comedies and one tragedy.  This is definitely a mixed bag.  First up is Much Ado About Nothing.  It's my favorite of his plays.  Here Benedick and Beatrice are dueling news anchors.  He stood her three years ago!  Hero is the weather girl.  Tom Jones' hit "Help Yourself" is the theme song.  I still think of Diet Dr. Pepper.  Maybe I'm prejudiced.  But this adaptation gets my vote as the best. We have humor and a little tragedy.  There's a bit involving the sonnets.  Once again the bumbling security guards save the day.  However, things don't turn out entirely like the original plays.  But this version suffers from comparisons to more "faithful" ones.  I thought that the actors slightly resembled Kenneth Braugh and Emma Thompson.  Like the earlier BBC version, Benedick gets a shave.  But it's still a delight to watch.  The take on Macbeth is rather strange indeed.  It's set in a restaurant.  This field can be rather competitive.  Macbeth is the head chef.  But the owner Duncan gets all the credit.  His son's in line to take over.  But he's not ready yet.  Macbeth's wife also works at the restaurant.  She's fully involved in the plot to murder Duncan.  This takes place off camera.  The witches are three male sanitation workers.  We get some scenes of a landfill.  This adaptation is the bloodiest.  That's just the kitchen!  See Macbeth demonstrate how to divide a pig's head.  We also get scenes of his wife washing her hands.  She has some trouble with her lipstick too.  Not surprisingly, things don't turn out well. The Taming of The Shrew is the worst of this series.  Katherine is a politician in line for her party's leadership.  Her younger sister is a supermodel.  Since Shakespeare wrote these plays, women's roles have changed a lot.  This gets reflected in these adaptations.  The decision to marry is partially politicial.  Besides, no one had asked Katherine before!  She gets a wild ride in several areas.  But does she really believe that famous speech at the end?  Stay tuned.  The last play is A Midsummer Night's Dream.  I saw a production back in college.  Here the action takes place at a holiday camp.  Hermia is set for an engagement party.  But she found someone else.  We get fairies.  Puck is a frequent presence.  Bottoms gets turned into a donkey.  Actually, it's mainly the ears.  Cupid plays havoc.  Both guys fall for Helena.  This version could have been done at an American camp.  The bonus features are sparse.  Each play has making of  interviews.  But the Macbeth one primarily deals with a stage production.  These versions won't replace the originals.  Hopefully, they'll increase interest in them.  Shakespeare often adapted his plays from other sources.  So he'd probably be amused by these treatments.