The final season of Queer As Folk just arrived today, ( June 2nd 2006)and I'd like to break my review down by Disks, if that's alright. I spent 17-straight  hours(LOL) watching  and writing about this DVD.

Disk I: episodes 1, 2, and 3.

  We begin in LA where Justin has been invited to work up the storyboard for  the movie, Rage, he and Michael's comic-book collaboration. The opening scenes of episode one are hot with full and in-focus frontal male nudity and this mise en scene  sets the tone for much of what goes on in LA. Justin, as cute as ever, has some disappointments  that should not surprise anybody familiar with the movie "biz" and, back in Pittsburgh, Brian Kinney,  looking a little worn in this his  final season, makes some startling career decisions on the advice of his accounting executive, the (almost) fully rehabilitated Teddy. Emmett Honnecut's business is doing well, too,  and he's even invited to anchor a  TV segment called the "Queer Guy." Honnecut isn't very versatile, but he works his character so wonderfully, little versatility is needed.  Michael and  Ben are happy with their marriage and their adopted son, Hunter, is doing well at school. And, of course, there's Michael's sperm-donated daughter who, like most children, is about to cause real trouble.  These three are really an ensemble, although I am tiring a bit of Michael's doe-eyed look and that kind of simpering smile of his as well as  I am tiring of Hunter's James Dean sulleness; it has just about run out of force. Thus, the opening three episodes are funny, well developed in both plot and character, but ominously portending the catastrophes in both plot and theme that are to follow. As one of the Hollywood producers tells Justin in episode one: "God is in and Gays are out."

Disk II: episodes 4, 5, and 6:

 I went on to Disk Two and the plot thickens like mucilage or a David Lynch film  These three episodes must have been hijacked by some Jerry Falwell family values devotees or some out-of-work feminists.  Lindsay and Melanie practically suffocate these three episodes with their constant quarrelling over the "ownership" of Gus, the male baby, and the other one, baby X, I'll call her.  The theme in these episodes is  repetitive, boring, and nettlesome. The theme:  Gays should adopt traditional heterosexual values such as child rearing, home ownership,  marriage, and, of course, divorce. Everybody, except Brian Kinney, wants to buy into it. If ever there was a low ebb in the five-year run of  QAF, these three episodes are it, and Lindsey and Melanie (and their  two-sperm donated brats contribute to it).  And two men  (one Black and one Caucasian, of course) strolling their "own" children down a newly revamped part of Pittsburgh and gentrifying the place smacks of  a real patronizing attitude about what most Gay men actually want to do. It's obvious Disk II wasn't written by the great homo's of earlier seasons and its failures in plot, characterization, believability, and interest to the Gay community are apparent.

If one can buy QAF V without Disk II, go for it.

Disk III: episodes 7, 8, and 9
 Somebody else must have got in control of the production here over the previous episodes: the writing is great, the story line  is easy to follow, the characters - especially Teddy (who has never been a favorite of mine) - blossom. (Well, Jason stays pretty static). There's hardly any emphasis on the heterosexual value thingy and just a lot of great fooling around at Babylon, the Gay Super Bar on Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA.  It's great het sex as usual, although the writers are hinting at something ominous with the introduction of a totally anti-Gay  Proposition #14. A Prop that would deny Gays equal rights to  str8ts in legal contracts, marriage, health care insurance from a Gay partner. As in a previous episode where Liberty Avenue had to battle it out againsy discrimination against Gays, Liberty Avenue is at it again. This time, Brian Kinney doesn't come to the rescue.

Disk IV: 10, 11, and 12

The writers  of QAF built these episodes  nicely and the tragedy is inevitable. Although Cindy Lauper makes her debut at Babylon,  Gay hate takes its toll on our friends and the issue in these three episodes focuses on the extreme Right in America  and what it's willing to do to condemn  or eradicate  homosexuals.  The slurs against President Bush are thinly veiled, and conservatives come off as really  villainous. (I'd like to point out that I am a conservative, but I am not one from the hate-mongering right-wing of the Republican Party.)  I found the editing and the continuity really confusing, however. There are few grammatical hints at what  was  real and what was surreal. No zany camera angles, for instance. No hyped music. Were you watching this in its original broadcast, I know you'd be confused. I had to back up and look at a few scenes, again. Then, it sortta made sense.

Episode 13

  Totally pointless and meretricious. After so many  years of  great stuff, somebody threw this junk together and called it an ending. Pffffft.

Conclusion: Like any series, some  parts of  QAF V worked for me and some didn't. In this final season I loved the work of  Carl, Debbie's boyfriend and husband.  I also liked Hunter's work, the street prostitute that Michael and Ben adopted.  Debbie, of course, has gotta be nominated for something in this series.  The music bed was fantastic and Cindy Lauper's appearance in episode #12 was so rip roaring.

If you have been a fan of QAF over the years, get this as a collector's item. True. $ seems a mite high priced, but it's the end of an era we'll never see on TV, again. Ever.