I love this movie! It's about fate, destiny and true love through many obstacles. The movie starts out with a 25 year old marine Logan Thibault, played perfectly by a now grown up, filled out and very handsome Zac Efron. The war scenes are all of 5 minutes long during the very beginning of the film. Logan has just survived a night raid in Iraq when he comes across a picture of a young woman in the rubble and decides that she is his "guardian angel" because he survives things he shouldn't have. He vows to find her if he gets out alive. His best friend Victor sadly dies in another raid 8 months later. After Logan's third term at war ends, he decides to find her and thank her for saving his life. We learn that Logan, who briefly stays with his sister and her kids, is suffering from post tramatic stress syndrome and he is lonely and depressed. He finds out the picture of the woman is from Hamden, Louisianna because there is also a lighthouse in the picture with the woman. He sets out to WALK with his dog from Colorado to Louisianna to find her. We don't learn why he doesn't hitchhike, drive or take a bus and would prefer to walk across many states. We don't know how long it takes him (I am assuming it took many, many months) but in a scene we see him "camping out" with his dog. He arrives in Louisianna looking very good for someone that has walked thousands of miles and was "roughing it" in the wilderness for months.
Logan asks around at a local bar and shows the picture and finds out her name is Beth Green and she runs a nearby dog kennel. We then meet Beth and find out she lives with her Grandmother, has a 8 year old son, Ben, and runs a dog kennel business. She also has a nasty, bully of a ex husband who is the town sheriff named Keith who wants Beth back. We also learn that Beth's brother was also a marine and was killed about a year ago in action and the family has still not gotten over their grief.
Her Grandmother gives Logan a job at the kennel and he moves into a run down house close by the kennel. He befriends the family quickly and helps them out with just about everything and eats meals with them and becomes fast friends with Beth's son.
The cinemetography is beautiful in this film with the play of light of the sunrises and sunsets of Louisianna, it was filmed during the fall season and the colors are gorgeous, but it's really Zac Efron that steals every scene with his beautiful, expressive, bright blue eyes with lush eyelashes. This man is beyond beautiful! He is breath takingly handsome, his eyes, his lips, his dark hair, and his body. You can't take your eyes off him. He is troubled, torn and so intense, Zac plays this perfectly. His expression does not change much during the entire film. I wish we could of seen him smile more, but that was the part he was playing.
Everything about Logan is the perfect man, he is a hardworker and can fix anything, he is kind, caring and sensitive, romantic, plays the piano, great with the dogs at the kennel, and extremely good looking. He is also excellent with Beth's son and they play chess together and a special bond forms between them. Logan restores her family's old boat and gets it running after many years of just sitting. He is a big help and great to have around. Logan has a heart of gold. Beth believes Logan is too good to be true, and resists him at first and then he wins her over. We watch Beth checking him out from a distance, noticing how handsome and muscular he is.
I felt that the actress they chose to play Beth (Taylor Schilling) wasn't quite right for the part. She seemed a little too old to play opposite Zac Effron and their chemistry is somewhat lacking, that being said, we watch the couple first become friends, go out on a date, then trust each other and then fall in love then become lovers.
The love scenes I think could of been done a little better, the couple starts kissing in a outdoor shower and the audience sees this through some shutters (which makes it kind of distracting). They are just kissing and early stage undressing at this point. They then proceed to a mosiquito netted canapy bed where the couple makes love for the first time. There is no nudity at all. Again, it's Zac's beautiful eyes and the way he looks at her when they are intimate that makes it seem so real. It's HIS beauty that is showcased. It's very tender and beautiful and you believe the couple is deeply in love like he can't believe this is really happening. Although, they never say "I Love You" to each other at any time during the film. I guess the words aren't really necessary. They don't show Zac from the front as much during these love scenes you only see his bare back and how muscular he has become.
The ex husband Keith finds out about their romance and becomes increasingly jealous and crazy and threatens to take Ben from Beth if she doesn't break up with Logan. Keith finds the picture of Beth that Logan had in his possesion, after he broke into his house and stole the picture. Keith shows Beth the picture. Beth confronts Logan and tries to break up with him and we see Logan packing during a wild, violent rain storm but he doesn't leave yet.
Keith turns up at Beth's during the storm and wants to take Ben for good, Ben flees to his tree house with rope stairs across a rapidly rising river from the flash flood. Keith tries to save Ben with Beth and Logan close behind him, and when Keith reaches Ben on the rising river he hands him to Logan and then the tree house falls and kills Keith. I felt the ending was too convienent and quick, the bad guy gets killed and then the others live happily ever after, now that's he's gone and out of the way.
After Keith's death, Logan is walking away preparing to leave for good, and Beth runs after him and says "please stay, you belong with us" (which I believe is his reward for all he's been through during the war) and then they hug & kiss. It's a very emotional scene.
The last scene is Beth, Ben & Logan out in the boat Logan restored playing happy family. Definately living happily ever after.
I would really recommend this movie, the acting is wonderful, it's a heart warming, beautiful love story. It makes you say: "I wish this would happen to me". I wish someone like Logan would walk into my life.