The Grey
 Review

A man named John Otway works in the Alaskan Wilderness as a protector of an oil drilling team from Wolves. He pens a letter to his wife, then gets on a plane, which crashes and he ends up in the wilderness with other men fighting for his life and the lives around him.

Liam Nesson is one of the older generation's overlooked actors. He is an actor that can take on any role and nail it. He is so method and so intense in his acting ability, he can carry any film that he is in with it. He is remarkable to watch and makes me actually want to go to see the film that he potentially is in.  But in this film, he could've turned in a one-note performance and just chewed scenery, but he turns in a haunting, moving performance that made me weep for his character towards the end.  You get that feeling in your gut after watching the men walk through the wilderness and you just know. Also you feel for the character after getting to know him through out the movie.  Not a lot of actors have that hold on the audience like he does.

Joe Carnahan is a pretty prolific director that has his hits (Smoking Aces), huge misses (A Team) and critically overlooked (Narc). I was worried that he would underwhelm yet again on this one because A Team didn't come out that great and I was disappointed, but I was glad I saw this movie because this movie takes the talent he has shown in Narc and brings it to a another level of solid film-making. The look, pace of the film are really good and made me enjoy the movie even more because with certain directors the material in this film would've or could've been mishandled, but he did it fine. In fact, this could be his masterpiece because it moved me to the point because at the point before I saw it, I had low expectations. I am glad it didn't turn out to be the ACTION FEST TO END ALL ACTION FEST movie the trailer made it out to be.  Everything is just well rounded here, but it does have its flaws.

First flaw is that the side characters that worked with Nesson's character barely had time to get their story. I know there is a 2-hour time limit and there could've been more expanded from the story on those characters because in the last scene, I really didn't feel for them as much as I did Nesson's character because that is basically the main character development that we had in the movie, but the rest not so much.

Yes, I did read there was a lack of an ending, but how do you end a movie like this? It's hard to sit at your computer and go, "Ok, let's end it this way or that way." That's not how it works. Some open endings are perfect for some movies, and this movie had a good open ending to make you think on what was going to happen to the character after the film ended.  Plus, I feel some other reviewers missed the theme and the message of the movie to the point where they are making blind criticisms without digesting the film, but you don't have to like everything.

Overall, it was a enjoyable movie and a great thrill ride like the reviews said it was, it had the right amounts of all the stuff that movies are made up of, but there was a lack of some parts that didn't make the movie less enjoyable, but still were there to see.