La Femme Nikita is a very unique film. Probably, the best portrayal of a female action lead that I have ever seen. I'm certain that the American film makers of 'Point of No Return' (a

shall we say .... 'borrowing' of plot and character) and the subsequent television series of the same name and story line would concur to some degree.

The basic premise is simple. A young woman, adrift in a gang of thugs, with her own liabilities, finds herself involved in a crime which culminates in a deadly showdown with the authorities.

A policeman dies by her hand , and she takes the rap for the entire debacle, granting her a life sentence of incarceration. Or does it?

She finds herself to be confronted by a representative of a government agency who enlightens her that she has been publically declared dead by suicide. Shown photos of her mock funeral, she is extended the offer to 'serve' certain state objectives in penance, or meet her demise in no uncertain terms.

What follows is the transformation of a untamed youth into a seductive operative, and calculated assassin. Shallow? Hardly.

What drives this movie is characterization. Nikita (played brilliantly by Anne Parillaud) retains a wild edge even as she is shaped into, and masters her new form. Complicating matters still, is the love relationship that she develops, afterwards, revealing a warm and vunerable side. Yet, even this comes into subtle conflict with the sexual tension that develops between Nikita and her mentor.

In short, the feelings portrayed are complex and paradoxical (The bathroom scene must be watched with undivided attention), giving rise to true emotional dilemma. What results, after all the bullets are sprayed is a very human ending. Open.... but somehow satisfying.

Aside from the heavy stuff, Anne Parillaud is a sensual delight. And, Jean Reno plays a role so intense that it borders on comedy.

As for the DVD... I don't know how 'special' the special edition is. Most of the features are extremely short, including the one on music accompaniment. The featurette, however, though brief, does give an interesting backdrop to the production through the incites of it's main actors. I considered dropping a star for lack of supplement, but adding in the modest price, and strength of the film, I retained it.

As for the debate on languages... It's nice to have an English soundtrack. It was my first viewing. My second was French with English subtitles. The French version had far more ambiance, and I was surprised at how much I enjoyed it. Though, watching the English first, allowed me to understand the story so I could absorb the atmosphere. My take.... use them both. Multiple viewings are a must.

Highly Recommended.