A LITTLE GIRL loses her father when he's betrayed by the woman he loves, framed for terrorist acts, and killed in prison. The child is sent to a juvenile prison after defending herself from abuse in a foster home. When freed at 18-years, Amanda Clarke becomes heir to a fortune of obscene proportion and her father's journals, outlining his set-up and innocence. Now, taking on the identity of wealthy socialite and philanthropist Emily Thorne, she brings justice to those who ruined her father's life and her own ... justice designed to suit each enemy's individual role.

We haven't seen determination like this since The Bride in Tarantino's "Kill Bill" movies - or "The Dark Knight." In a bravura performance by Emily VanCamp, our girl hasn't beheaded anyone yet, but her schemes are definitely lethal for those she takes aim at. And there are plenty of them in a cast that includes Madeline Stowe ("The Last of the Mohicans") and Henry Czerny as Victoria and Conrad Grayson, the veddy rich, veddy bad monarchs of The Hamptons where the story takes place. As you might have noticed in USA's "Royal Pains," The Hamptons is the playground of the American wealthy. "It's a great place for a fantasy background," VanCamp says in the making-of extra, "Roadmap to Revenge."

In the same feature, creator Mike Kelley tells us, "Revenge is the mother of all story engines for me ... a loss of love and family - that betrayal - are such strong motivators for any protagonist."

Co-executive producer/writer Mark B. Perry and Kelley advise the classic revenge tale by Alexander Dumas, "The Count of Monte Cristo," went into the pitch for "Revenge." "I was a huge fan of the book and I felt like this was a real opportunity to bring the nighttime soap opera back," Kelley says.

Executive producer Marty Bowen chimes in saying, "For me, at its core, it's more opera than soap opera."

OK, but the only time "Revenge" drags is when the story spins off in a tangent of love and family angst. When it sticks to Emily and her mission, this thriller is like a page turner that keeps us up into the wee hours. I couldn't stop watching this mash of murder, betrayal, blackmail and potent justice. Maybe Emily should wear a mask and a cape, but, when not styling like a 21st Century Grace Kelly, she's deliciously menacing in a black hoodie, jeans and boots.

In the extra, "Haute Hamptons: Femme Fatale Fashions," VanCamp tells us that Emily's socialite persona is modeled after iconic movie star Grace Kelly. Costume designer Jill Ohanneson ("Dexter," "Six Feet Under," "Lie to Me") says she spoke to VanCamp and Stowe about their feelings and their models for clothing inspiration. Audrey Hepburn, Katharine Hepburn and Grace Kelly certainly work for VanCamp. Stowe's look is "a little bit dangerous and very sensual, but still elegant and a little bit aggressive," Ohanneson says.

"I really didn't want this character to be the typical society matron. I wanted her to have a more feline sense of her character, and Jill really went with that," Stowe confirms.

The cast is not so serious it can't make fun of their trappings, however. In the bloopers extra, Czerny, the deadly businessman, cries out in a scene, "Help - Help! My daughter is wearing some pink thing and the bedding is mauve! Mauve, can't you see it?"

Nice when the bloopers actually make you laugh. Additional extras on this 22 episode, five disc set from ABC Studios include deleted scenes on each disc, two music videos, an interview with Emily's frequently reluctant ally played by Gabriel Mann ("The Bourne Identity," "The Bourne Supremacy"), "Nolan Ross Exposed." "At Home in the Hamptons," is where we learn Wilmington, N.C., substituted for The Hamptons in the pilot episode. Sets constructed afterward feature replicas of a grand estate, a seaside cottage (to die for!) and a neighborhood bar, renamed Porter's Stowaway Tavern for the series. "At Home" also shows how the use of green screen brings these sets to life with breathtaking seasonal views.

Critics and viewers loved the first season of "Revenge"; it was a certifiable hit for ABC, nominated for Golden Globe and Viewers Choice awards. Season Two premiers at 9 p.m., Sept. 30.