A lot of people don't really seem to know how to take this film, but then again it's generally acknowledged that comedy-horror is one of the most difficult genres in film-making... Ken Weiderhorn summed it up in his audio commentary to "Return of the Living Dead Part II" when he said that comedy and horror are opposites - people who like horror don't tend to like it mixed with comedy as this undermines the horror, and people who like comedies don't tend to like horror. Tough genre, then!

As a fan of Peter Jackson's early low-budget gross-out horror-comedies "Bad Taste" and "Brain Dead", I had no problems at all with this film and thoroughly enjoyed what he did with a big budget, courtesy of Robert Zemeckis and Hollywood - the kinetic style and imagination of Jackson's earlier films was still present, he just had a whole lot more money to spend on some great visuals! I'm also a fan of Jeffrey "Reanimator" Combs, and he's hilarious in this! The story has it that Jackson insisted on making this film in his homeland of New Zealand in order to avoid undue intrusion from the studio suits, and it shows - if this film had been made in Hollywood with the suits on-set every day then I think it would've turned out far tamer, blander, compromised ... and PG-13! As it is, Hollywood got a R-rated horror-comedy that's funny and gory in equal amounts - and they probably had no idea who to aim the marketing at! Such considerations matter less once a film has passed the theatrical release, and with Jackson's considerable success with the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy, I hope this film gets reappraised and seen for what it is - one of the most imaginative big-budget horror-comedies you're ever likely to see.

One major gripe - a Signature Collection Laserdisc edition of "The Frighteners" was released, containing 12 minutes of additional footage and literally hours of bonus material. I've seen it, and the additional footage is great stuff - it's not just a load of padding, some of it is really funny stuff - and that makes this extras-free DVD of the theatrical cut look pretty half-hearted. After the success of the Lord of the Rings, I was sure this version of The Frighteners would get the multi-disc DVD release it deserves - but there's no sign of it. What's up with that, Universal?