I don't know what upset so many people about this movie - it's light, not deep, so what else is new in movies? OK, Diane Keaton is waaay too old to play the older sister of Lisa Kudrow, but hey, this happens all the time in theatre, remember the musical "Peter Pan"? 
Meg Ryan and Lisa Kudrow and Diane Keaton are all fun and pretty to watch. Problems with the movie are, as many have pointed out, problems with the script: why have a FOREIGN woman be the one with the wisdom? I suspect the simple reason is, "that's how it happened", because it has dramatic implications that don't seem to have been thought through (Americans are not only maniacally busy, they're also too STUPID and cut off from their roots to know what to do about it). OK, so the Iranian doctor has a cute accent, but is that reason enough to put him AND his mother in a movie? Yes, it's a Meg Ryan vehicle, but I didn't feel that was a drawback. Walter Matthau is funny as always, playing the irascible, unpredictable and irreverent old grouch. But his character has little depth, he's just a foil for the daughters (and I didn't buy the scene where he gatecrashes his grandson's birthday party); he doesn't change or grow, repent or regret anything; age just withers him. 
The movie is light and what else could a director do with this material but make it a laugh-and-cry comedy? Parents age, grow dotty, and die; when they do, we tend to forget all the bad things and recall only the good; and death brings people together. Nothing earth-shattering there. The real theme of the movie is not aging parents or death, but dealing with stress. We're MEANT to feel irritated by all the phone calls, and stressed by trying to keep track of who is talking to who. Some people feel bound by duty and burn themselves out because they don't know how to say "no", and Meg is one such person. A very funny scene is when Meg finally twigs, and goes round the house ripping all the phones out - it didn't occur to her that she could simply just stop answering them! And we never see the kind old woman again. 
Do we really have to see all 3 sisters' faces crying at the death-bed of their father? It would have been just as effective to have them crying off-screen, but no! we have to be shown that ALL 3 are GREAT actresses because they can all equally cry effectively on camera. And Lisa Kudrow has demonstrated time and again in "Friends" that she is excellent at expressing pain and grief with just her face and her body; she doesn't need to be given explicit lines like "I really feel grief and hurt to see my father die". And why did they have to wear black all the time? Except at the very end when only Meg wore white, why? To show that she has "hung up" but the others haven't learned that life-lesson yet? Or to show that she is the one that brought
them all together? It jarred a bit because the final scene is all about "sisterhood" and "having fun together", where egos are finally laid to rest (temporarily). The final shot, drawing back from the 3 sisters goofing around, was very effective - too effective, I felt, for the rest of the movie. It seemed to suggest, "and one day, these 3 laughing spirits will also pass away, as their father has done", but of course that kind of perspective would have jarred the fluffy, light tone.