This novel is simple, but it is a great story. Forrest is an idiot and sometimes he could not do some simple things as other people do. Jenny is Forrest's best friend since their childhoods. Forrest has a strong feeling to Jenny, later Jenny becomes his girlfriend. Unfortunately, they are not together by the end of the story. Forrest's mother always said, "Life was like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get." This is a simple sentence, but it has influenced Forrest a lot. This sentence represents not to focus on the result because we never know what we're going to get. Also, this sentence implies that life is full of surprise like a box of chocolates which make Forrest expect to enjoy having his life. According to this novel, we have seen many things that Forrest's mom does for him, and he cannot succeed his life without his mom. For example, his mother sent him to public school because she believes that it would help him to be like everybody else. She does her best and gives everything she can. she is a great mom. Forrest's story encourages many people because he is braved and he is not easy to give up his life even he has low IQ. This is an encouraged book, so people who luck confident or complain about their lives should read this book to cheer up. Many people like to complain what they don't have, but they always forget what they have. However, Forrest is different from other people because he never focuses on his disadvantages. Dan is Forrest's commanding officer and he lost his legs during the Vietnam War. Then, Dan was sent back to the United States, and lived with the government welfare. It is hard for him to live like that because he used to be an officer, but now he has to rely on government welfare. Many times he wants to die, but he did not do because he still has some hope for his life. At the end, he worked with Forrest and they run shrimp business successfully. In conclusion, this is a good book, and everyone should read it because one can always learn something from this book.