I'm a huge fan of the Dead Space series. I own every bit of Dead Space related media released to date, including the games, comics, movies, and novel. This movie is Dead Space for people who hate everything that is Dead Space. Within the first five minutes of the movie, I was able to identify the true, horrible nature of the Necromorphs: they weren't the re-animated corpses-turned-alien-killing-machines of all established canon. No, the truth was much more sinister than that: In Aftermath, they were manifestations of the Evil Spirit of 1992, come from the grave to take its terrible animation back.

What Aftermath tries to pull off is a very Rashemon-inspired "same story from different perspectives" effect, by having four different survivors interrogated about the same series of events leading up to the present. Many movies have pulled this trick, but even the late TV show Mama's Family accomplished it better in a single campy 30-minute episode than this travesty of modern animation.

In Aftermath, the story is told through four separate flashback-style animation segments, each done by different animators. These segments are interconnected by a present-day story, which looks to be of lower quality than the cutting-room-floor discards of Final Fantasy 7 cutscenes. Even the computer scenes from Hackers are of better quality than this offal. The flashback sequences are... acceptable, and in some cases even rather decent. But none of it holds a candle to the previous movie, Downfall (and even that wasn't super-stellar, truth be told).

The story also makes no sense. The forced interrogations make no sense. The space physics make no sense. The airlock scene makes no sense. The entire final battle makes no sense. None of it makes any bloody sense. The only redeeming quality is the voice acting, which was for the most part pretty solid. But even that one ray of goodness is marred by the atrocious script. I got the feeling that the whole thing was written by someone who was shown one or two pieces of concept art and then told to write their own story about it.

If you are a fan of the Dead Space series, and want to keep your memories of the franchise enjoyable, please, for the love of Altman and all he "sacrificed," avoid Aftermath like the vomitous necromorph bile that it is. That was 85 minutes of my life that would have been better spent in the video game.