When I first encountered this unique item on late-night TV back in the 1970s, it moved me as no other film could.  I was one of the people who voted for it as the worst film of all time when the Medved Brothers compiled "The 50 Worst Films of All Time."  Sadly, Michael Medved has devolved into a predictable, knee-jerk "social critic" for conservative media.  The younger brother, Harry, apparently fell off the Earth.

But none of this diminishes the glory of "Plan 9."  Writer-director Ed Wood pulls every one of his tricks out for this one: a ludicrous premise; disjointed editing; wretched sets; and sappy dialogue for inept actors.  I would call the special effects the bottom scrapings from the barrel, but that would insult the barrel.

There's always a pathetic underbelly to an Ed Wood production, but nearly every time he overcomes it with his unique, infamous, possibly insane spirit of dedication.  He's not trying to make the worst films, or aiming for camp, but that's what happens time and again!

What makes "Plan 9" stand out as his masterpiece (though "Bride of the Monster" offers stiff competition) is hard to define precisely.  Sometimes a movie just gels, like "Casablanca" did.  All the elements belong, as if the Fates has conspired in a never-to-be-repeated moment of artistic magic.

Sure, you can't go too wrong with Tor Johnson and "UFOs" clearly dangling from strings.  Leather-suited aliens raise the dead for their own secret purposes, while cardboard tombstones totter and the chiropractor of someone's wife holds a cape over his face in a failed attempt to pretend he's Bela Lugosi.  Criswell the prophet intones, "Can you prove that it didn't happen?"  I can't!

I have watched this movie under many different circumstances, and it never fails to entertain.  Some people don't appreciate what they might call "stupid," "boring," or "stupid and boring."  But for some of us, it awakens in the soul the feeling that we are not alone in being misunderstood in an incomprehensible universe.  Plus there are laughs.