Indicted for high treason, troop demoralization, and aiding the enemy, Nazi resister Sophie Scholl tells the court:  "We fight with words...My brother and I wanted these leaflets to open people's eyes and to put an end to the terrible slaughter of other peoples and the Jews even sooner than it will be ended by the Allies."  This movie is not fiction, most of it is from eyewitness or documentary sources.  It is about doing the right thing, even when looking evil and death in the face.  It is about familial love.  And it is about fearless, active faith.

As young Munich University students, Sophie and her older brother Hans led the White Rose resistance movement, leaving graffiti on walls, and more importantly, printing anti-Nazi leaflets, the sixth of which was dropped over Munich by the Allies only months after the Scholls' executions in 1943.  The plot is known from the outset:  the Scholls get busted distributing leaflets, they are convicted, then they're executed (by guillotine--no blood shown).

The first part of the film seems not much more than reporting, but then, 2/3 of the way into it, the movie grabs you and doesn't let you go.  First, there's Sophie's flint-like display of the paradoxical grace of strength in weakness (Sophie, a Protestant, is shown relying upon God in prayer). Second, there's the profound familial love relationships, all the more palpable because brother Hans and sister Sophie are not allowed to vocalize, so through expressive eyes that won't turn away they speak their love to each other.  The parental bond's not left out either, and their parents are shown breaking in on the trial yelling as they are pushed out:  "I'm Robert Scholl, father of two of the defendants...There is a higher justice!"  And third, there's the grip of the White Rose message.  It is very significant that the White Rose leaflets reported Nazi atrocities based on eyewitness accounts of people returning from the Eastern Front, proving that the general German public cannot claim to have never heard of what was going on.  The dialogue between Sophie and her interrogator delves into issues such as who has a right to life, racial hatred, freedom of speech, the existence of God, conscience vs obedience to law, and more.

Most Holocaust movies focus on the unwilling victims and the Nazis, but this movie's a bit different in that it's about people who willingly chose to assume risking death, though they could have avoided it.  Sophie had several opportunities to betray her conscience and spare her life, but declined "because it's wrong."  She displayed as her brother said, "a strong spirit, a tender heart."