This is a really hard film to review. The reason being is that this in no way even comes close to the brilliance of the first film, but is still a lot better then most other 80's slashers.

One of the leads "Lefty", is played by the famous Dennis Hopper. Oddly enough, I feel he gives the worst performance out of the whole cast, and seeing him in that (way too small) cowboy outfit is one of the funniest, and strangest things I've ever seen.
The man that plays "Leatherface" is obviously a lot smaller then Gunnar Hanson and it definitely effects the feel of the film. Not to mention he actually has feelings in this one, and dispite multiple chances to knock off the protaginist, he somehow refrains from chopping her up into little pieces (WTF!!!!!). He also swings the chainsaw over his head like an freakin idiot.
This movie also has comedic elements, that in my opinion do not fit the classic, disturbing, Texas Chainsaw feel in any way.

Now that I've gotten MOST of the bad things about this film out of the way, I will talk about the good things.

The obvious thing this movie has going for it are the special effects done by the one and only, Tom Savini. Which are to say the least, extremely impressive. There is a fair amount of gore in this one, but the most impressive effects are the set pieces (body parts, skin laying around, bodies of past victims, ect).
The lead character "Stretch" is definitely a sight for sore eyes! She has thighs of steel, and I did not mind looking at her throughout the duration of the film, at all!!!

The first time I watched this, I dismissed it as a disgrace to the series, but the second time around, I actually enjoyed it more than most slashers made around this time period, and felt I was a little hard on it.

Overall, if your expecting the brutal realism of the first film, you will be extremely dissapointed, but if your just lookin for a fun, cheesy, 80's flick, you will most likely find this one, at the very least, an enjoyable film to watch.