First off, I can tell you that I have always loved this movie for what it is and always has been...... a better than average sci-fi movie. It actually has a plot that makes sense, and the writers succefully intermixed the story line of 4 different groups of people until they merge at the end to 'save the world'. The effects are great.... way ahead of its time in 96. And it's got IMHO one of the best written speaches that ever hit the big screen (the president's speach to the pilots). Kudos to the writer who wrote that....it almost brings me to tears no matter how many times I watch it. And Bill Pullman does an AWESOME...let me repeat...AWESOME acting job in this movie (ex: hospital scene where he is 'loosing' his wife -the first lady).

HOWEVER...this review isn't to try and sell you on the movie. LOL! The movie is from 96, and chances are, you already know if you love or hate ID4. My opinion is not going to change that. ON THE OTHER HAND, if you love this movie....if you watched it 10 times over when it first came out.... if you were one of the crazy people who saw it at it's midnight release (*raises hand*)...then you ABSOLUTLEY HAVE to see it on Blu-Ray.

Now I already own numerous upon numerous Blu-Rays and I will be the first one to say that the technology is well worth the price tag of these disks and getting a new player. ALSO... a lot of people don't know that to properly see Blu-Ray in it's highest quality, you not only need the player and the disk...but you better be hooking it all up with HDMI cables or you are going to be loosing quality in the process. Again... it's another expenditure, but if you love your movies and are a big QUALITY FREAK...it's worth double it's price tag. It really does make a BIG difference (and the HDMI cables will even help the quality of non-blu ray's if you use them for your normal dvd player too).

But I digress...  For me, ID4 is no longer even watchable in any other format other than Blu-Ray. When I bought this I had my doubts as to whether or not it would be true 1080p since it was originally recorded in 96 before the technology was even a glimmer in anyone's eye (and remasters aren't always what they are cracked up to be). But trust me... they out did theirselves on this one. But don't take my word for it.... DO THIS: Buy the movie, watch it in blu-ray...and THEN go to the special content menu and watch THE ORIGINAL TEASER TRAILER. It's played in it's original format. You know? The format that we all thought looked out of this world on the big screen back in 96? Well, OMG....the difference is MIND BLOWING. STAGGERING, even! Seeing the original format after watching the blue ray version brings it all into perspective. The detail on the new Blu-Ray version in the space ships...the fire...even the buildings.... all I can say is WOW!

And apparently I'm not the only one who noticed this. I'm in the Chicago area....and I had a heckuva time finding this Blu-Ray in regular stores. Eveyone seems to be trying to get their paws on it (-May 08). Grab it thru Amazon...save yourself a headache. :)