M*A*S*H is one of the zaniest and most intelligent satires ever produced by Hollywood.  This is a war movie in which only two shots are fired -- as signals in a football game.  It is a masterpiece of wider appeal -- even to veterans -- than is suggested by its setting in Korean War military hospitals, or by its director's explicit aim of promoting liberal opposition to the Vietnam war during the '60s and '70s.
The 2002 two-disk M*A*S*H special edition from 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment in many ways is a benchmark for DVD releases of cult movies.  Picture and sound quality are high.  The special feature content is entertaining and insightful.
This content includes extensive retrospective comment by director Robert Altman, producer Ingo Preminger, former studio boss Richard Zanuck, scriptwriter Ring Lardner Jr, actors including Donald Sutherland, Elliott Gould, Sally Kellerman, Tom Skerritt, John Schuck and Gary Burghoff, and medical veterans of the Korean War.  We see the 30th anniversary M*A*S*H reunion at Fox, and presentation of a studio life achievement award to Altman.
The special content gives fascinating insights into the driving half-mad genius that so often makes a great director, and of egos and bigheartedness in movie making.

Almost everyone, from the scriptwriter to the studio executives and the actors, lined up against the director at some time.  Donald Sutherland and Elliott Gould once even tried to get Altman fired, fearing that he would damage their careers.  In the M*A*S*H special edition features they eat their words and graciously pay tribute to Altman.  Former studio boss Richard Zanuck says that until Altman came along other directors were afraid of the screenplay or didn't like it.  'Altman came in, and seemed unruly enough to be able to understand this subject matter.'
M*A*S*H was made on a shoestring budget with Fox's Century Ranch standing in for Korea.  It emerged from chaotic creative tension as an enormous artistic and financial success.  Altman accepted a salary of only $75,000.  His son Mike is reputed to have made more money from writing the lyric to the keynote ballad, 'Suicide Is Painless', with Johnny Mandel.  Altman kept costs down by casting the movie with mostly unknown and out-of-work actors.  14 of the movie's 30 speaking roles were played by actors making their screen debut.  Shooting finished three days ahead of schedule in 1969, and almost half a million dollars under budget.  M*A*S*H went on to earn more than $80 million at the box office, a Palme d'Or at Cannes and an Oscar (for the heavily reworked script of formerly blacklisted scriptwriter Ring Lardner Jr), and to inspire a long-running popular TV series.
This is a rare thing: a five star classic movie in a five star DVD release.