I love this movie and it's a Christmas tradition to watch it with as many of my five kids as I can get together. It has helped me through some pretty tough times.
As a young boy in the 50s and 60s I grew up watching old movies on television with my mother. Jimmy Stewart has always been my favorite actor, not in any small measure because of this movie. It was my mother's fondness for him that initially led me to this great discovery. Having my own roots in a small community of western Pennsylvania, only 60 miles from Jimmy's hometown, helped to cement my affinity for him as well. I'm such a big fan of both him and this work that a copy of an original poster for this film hangs in my living room.
One of my greatest regrets is that, despite my exposure to what were even then "old" movies during my youth, I hadn't yet seen "It's a Wonderful Life" when I had the opportunity of meeting both director Frank Capra AND actor Jimmy Stewart on separate occasions while in college. I would have liked to have told them how much the movie meant to me. (As if they hadn't heard that before!) I found great pleasure in later learning that both Capra and Stewart said of all their movies, this one was their favorite.
Moving and inspiring the film is a human drama that touches my funny bone and my innermost senses in ways few movies ever do. It's an all-American timeless classic with a message of personal struggle and hope. In all it's simplicity it is simply great entertainment while at the same time leaving us no doubt as to the essential truth of what's *really* important in life.
Yes it's a bit sappy, certainly sentimental. Yes it's in black and white (unless you happen to see the "colorized " version) and granted it's an "oldie," but if you don't like this movie I can only have pity for you.
We all matter. We all have purpose. Despite what we might think at times, it IS a wonderful life and we have much to be thankful for.
"Each man's life touches so many other lives. If he wasn't around, it would leave an awful hole." -- Clarence
At least that's the way we should all live and hope it shall be.