I was never one for action movies. Your Rambos, your Conans, guys who were so superhuman as heroes it was hard to relate to them, let alone root for them. But then came Die Hard, and a new action hero emerged: a pretty regular guy who's smart enough to call for help and insightful enough to realize there's a good chance he ain't making it out of this movie alive.

Bruce Willis is John McClane, a New York cop trying to reconcile with his estranged wife (Bonnie Bedilia in fine form) over Christmas. He arrives at her skyscraper office building on Christmas Eve, where she and her co-workers are having a party. Little do they know that a group of very slick and experienced "terrorists" have targeted them for a high-financed robbery. It's only through sheer luck that McClane manages not to be taken hostage, but this lucky chance also leaves him bare-footed (you'll have to watch to see why, takes too long to explain), without a shirt, and only his service revolver against 11 armed and extrememly dangerous guys. More dangerous than their all their machine guns put together is their leader, Hans Gruber (a delicously suave Alan Rickman,) whose cool intellect and icy indifference to life, even the lives of his own men, make him one tough dude to rattle. He's planned this heist down to the second. But even the best laid plans go wrong....

Willis is great. He's funny, sarcastic and despite his vulgarity, it's obvious he's pretty smart too. It's his brains that he ends up having to rely on for the better part of the movie, since he's woefully outgunned, and the cops outside aren't able to help. His CB conversations with Hans are classic, as are the expressions on Hans' face as he slowly realizes McClane is not some dumb Irish flatfoot just giving him grief, but a formidable opponent who's causing the whole plan to go awry. McClane also isn't afraid to call for help, express his emotions (his plea to Sgt. Powell to talk to his wife if he doesn't make it out alive is suprisingly touching,) and experience despair. Willis gives this character ringing sincerity. He makes McClane into someone the audience can really get behind, because we understand him.

The supporting cast is great. Rickman's Hans is a villan you both hate and kinda like, because he's just so damn urbane. Bonnie Bedilia hardly screams, and has no trouble facing down her captors. Hart Brockner is great as the slimy Ellis, who tries to sell-out McClane and ends up with just desserts, and Alexander Gudanov is primal male rage as Karl, Hans' trusted 2nd man. William Atherton, who always does a great toady, doesn't let down his fans here as the overambitious reporter covering the take-over. But it's Reginald VelJohnson who shines as Al Powell, the cop who's McClane's only link to the outside and his only supporter.

If I have one complaint with the film, it's that in order to paint McClane more the hero, it makes the LAPD and FBI look like macho, bumbling morons. That was unneccessary. The movie more than explains why the police are rendered ineffective (it has to do with Hans' grand master plan.) They didn't need to be portrayed as incompetents.

There's also plenty of explosions, gun-fights, hand to hand combats and a grand showdown between McClane and Hans to keep the action enthusiasts happy. Even though some scenes are improbable, they're still very enjoyable.

Die Hard set the mold for a new breed of action films, and it's to be commended for that. I think I'll be adding it to my Christmas movie line-up, along with "It's a Wonderful Life" and "The Christmas Story." Maybe instead of wishing people a Merry Christmas, I'll be saying "Yip-ie-kay-ay, motherf****r!"