I'm about 3 weeks into the program.  It is a great starter program if you are a couch potato and need to get off the sofa.  But it is not as comprehensive as I expected.  Here is what you really get...

2 DVD, an exercise band, and suggested menu and training calander.  I broke the exercise band on the first workout.  The handle snapped and it really hurt.  I'm 6"3, so it was probably due to the distance the band had to stretch, but I've been using hand weights and I think they work better.  The offer better range of resistance.  The bands get harder as the stretch, so the first few inches are easy.

You use the first DVD for the first half of the program, and the second DVD for the second half.  What I was disappointed with is that each half is only two workouts.  So after the first week, it a little monotonous alternating between only two workouts.  I probably should have gotten P90x, but didn't because of my sedintary lifestyle.  But alternating between 2 workouts for 45 days is a little tendious.  Both workouts are about 30 minutes, but that includes stretching, breaks, and cool down periods.  While a 20 minute workout may be just right if you are a couch potato, I fell that I get a better cardio workout by spending 30 minutes on an eliptical machine.  I do break a sweat doing the Power 90 Cardio I, but since its only 20 minutes, I'm not as drenched as on an eplitical.  The Abs program is three minutes worth of ab exercises following the Cardio DVD, and the power yoga is also part of cardio. The program makes it seem like they are additional workouts, but that are not really.  P90x looks like it has more workouts and I think more variety is helpful to stay committed to the program.  I'm already bored with these two workouts.

Tony is good and not nearly as cheesy as some trainers I've seen.  I just wish the program was more comprehensive.  Hopefully moving to stage 2 will be envigorating.  I can't comment on the second half of the program yet.  For the most part, I do feel and look a little better, but I doubt I'm going to get the kind of results seen on the website and marketing materials only doing 20 minutes a day of moderate exercise.

If you're obses however, this is a nice start.

Finally, I'd buy this direct from [...].  I paid $[...] with shipping, so I'm not sure why its a lot more on Amazon.  A third party reseller is probably jacking up the price.  Plus by purchasing through [...], I now get weekly marking emails.  While they do push supplements, they also include interesting articles about weightloss and health (such as the 411 on artificial sweeteners, which alcohols to avoid, making better eat-out choices, specifically what to order at national chain restaurants if you have to eat out, etc).

Hope this helps someone.