I watched the series from beginning to end in about a year.  Very good overall.  The acting (most everyone), writing (Mafia but with same family problems we all have --- at first, at least, then too many problems), plot (having a mob boss like Tony see a shrink was near genius), and humor (Paulie and Chris getting lost and nearly dying when trying to kill a Russian Mafioso in the woods was priceless) made for a really good series but it should have been even better.  (Only "The Sopranos" could get away with a talking fish telling Tony who the FBI was speaking to.)

By season 3, some of the fun began to wear off.  For example, Malfi became boring.
(Tony would want to sleep with this non-smiling, monotone woman when gorgeous women, sometimes inexplicably, were attracted to all 360lbs of his drug dealing self?).

In Season 5, the shows were all over the place (and I was sorry to see Furio gone).  Many seeming plot set ups were never followed through on.  And everyone who worked for/with Tony seemed to die or go to prison; most everyone but Tony.  They were a dysfunctional mob family at best with killings of the best earners, power plays every week, personal problems galore, and yet they were successful  (Tony gets a private plane to Vegas since he is boss of a "glorified crew?" --- true, the NY families were much bigger).  Additionally, I think this is when the show started to have too many dream sequences --- e.g., when Tony had amnesia and was mistaken for someone else.  Another bad episode was when Tony had a gambling problem all of a sudden which disappeared as quickly as it came and added nothing to the show.

In Season 6, why would  I want several episodes devoted to a Captain being gay or an old mobster getting senile?  Were the writers worn out?  Out of ideas?  Waiting for the end?  Was the last season made just to make some extra bucks for everyone?

It was either two years too long or the writers/directors got carried away and bored.  A shame.

The ending?  The final five minutes did not bother me despite the director having some fun at the audience's expense.

I really liked Tony, Bobby, Chris, and Johnny Sacks (only he stood up to Tony).  I grew to dislike Carmela (money-mad) and Malfi (half dead and boring --- see her in GoodFellas for a much better performance and a bit of sexiness).  I guess some of the women in the show seemed to give me a problem.  I did, however, admire the beauty of some of the women (such as Tony's Las Vegas girlfriend --- the one he did mushrooms with.  I wanted to see more of her --- in more ways than one).  "I did it" he screamed.  I heard people tried to figure out what this meant.  I say it meant nothing --- he was on drugs after all and it's just a TV show.

I'm from NYC originally and I know NJ.  Yes, NJ is mostly ugly/crowded although there are many upscale communities.  Yes, there is corruption.  I ate at the sushi place and recognized other places (no, the sushi is much better in Manhattan than at that place).  I had no problem with the depiction of NJ.

A very good series and I identified with several characters.  Tony's dead eyes were perfect for a mob boss.  Worth watching, but I personally preferred "Rome."