If you have never seen this, please ignore the savagery of some of the other reviews here.  Yikes!  Seems like a lot of folks reviewed this after seeing it for the first time somewhere in the 2000s, or watched it for the first time since they saw it as tots when it came out in 1979.  Well, there's certainly no harm in that.  However, it's really not fair -- or useful in a review -- to expect this film to do any of the following:
1. Live up to modern special effects standards (1979...)
2. Feature bloody horrorshow moments with spleens flying off in every direction (it was a Disney film!)
3. Zip along at the (often pointlessly) rapid-fire pace of modern action movies (1979!)
4. Look fantastic on DVD when there was clearly no real effort to make that happen (sigh)

It would be nice to see a completely top-notch DVD release of this movie, complete with archival material, PDFs or galleries of the various movie cards, storybook stuff, and so on produced at the time (Disney marketing being what it was/is), extra surviving footage where relevant, and most of all, a cleaned up, digitally scrubbed picture that compensated for the unforgiving clarity of DVD/Blu-ray releases by painting out any revealed wires or so on.  Don't hold your breath -- the movie didn't fare well when released and has never been treated kindly by its owners.  So if the 2004 DVD version is too clear for its own good, remember that this wasn't something the makers could have anticipated.  I saw this film several times in the theatre and have seen it about 60 times on BETA, VHS, and DVD collectively -- and I've never really noticed wires or the like.  If this really bothers you, buy a copy of the older DVD release, which is even lower resolution...

As for the slamming of the dialogue, I really don't see the point.  The film is at least 50% gothic castle horror, complete with a castle in the form of the main control tower of the Cygnus.  This is consciously rendered in the film in a fitting noir style.  What's another film convention that rides along with such a style?  Melodrama, and that idea informs the dialogue.  While some of the lines might feel flat, there's some witty material here, and there are no real standout flop lines.  Compare this to, for a peripheral example, the dwarf-tossing gag in Lord of the Rings (Fellowship), which is a line that momentarily pulls you right out of the movie with its cheesiness.  LOTR is great, must watch/must own stuff and isn't ruined by even that sort of inane writing, so why all the depth charges lobbed at *this* old film, which has nothing half as silly in it?  It's melodrama, and usually rather intelligent melodrama, and if it isn't up to Shakespearean snuff, just remember that wasn't the point.  The question is this: does it distract?  If not, no worries.  If so, perhaps you are looking for a different sort of movie.  If so, fine, but don't fault The Black Hole for having a script that actually fits its own style.

The other thing I've found perplexing about some of the reviews here, including the heartless, humorless review welded to the product description, is the razzing the end of the film receives.  It's all visual, no dialogue, and therefore is slammed as a ripoff of 2001.  If this film weren't SF, would an all-visual end have been pegged as a 2001 ripoff?  If the whole film really *was* set in a terrestrial gothic castle, what then?  Considering the pressures faced by moviemakers to deliver easily-digested, nod-along fare (especially when working under the thumb of a company like Disney), the end of this film is fascinating, daring, and inventive.  It's about the duality of the human spirit -- the "villain" is surely deserving of a hellish fate, and yet it's his creative, curious spirit of genius that guides the crew to safety.  And yet it isn't a neat little snapshut ending -- *where* are they, anyway?  Will they get lucky and find out they can actually live on the planet you see at the end?  Nice stuff.

Sure, I've always found some moments to be rather goofy -- when are they outside the ship?  When are they not?  That gets wacky at the end, to say the least.  How does the not-so-good doctor figure out nifty mind control tech?  Why is the Cygnus so huge?  Why, exactly, are these characters so good at shoot-'em-up fighting?  The let's-rescue-the-damsel moment is perhaps a little *too* gothic-horror (and it's the one time the music tries too hard in an elsewise well-matched soundtrack).  If I'd written the screenplay, I'd have insisted on sorting this stuff out, too, just like some of the one-star reviewers here.

However, the whole concept of diving into a black hole to go see what's on the other side is a fanciful leap, and should be treated as such.  By extension, similar consideration should be given to the movie.  There's enough passable shipboard science at work on the Palomino to satisfy the nitpicker, but once that craft gets to the "castle", as it were, gothic fantasy takes over.  People have compared this movie unfavorably to the original Star Wars movie, saying it was an attempt to cash in, etc.  Okay, clearly the success of Star Wars made other movie houses interested in the genre.  Fine.  Go back and look at most of the dreck that came out in the wake of Star Wars -- unless you're into watching so-bad-it's-good movies for heckle value (I'm looking at you, Roger Corman), you know this stuff is awful.  Actually, I love the so-bad-it's-good paradigm (so thanks for some good laughs, Roger Corman), but I also realize those crummy movies made it harder for the good stuff to be properly recognized and appreciated.  There's no way you can put this film in the same category as rubbish like Star Crash or Space Raiders or so on.  Maybe you'd get more entertainment, heckle-style, out of those movies and their ilk, but you can't equate The Black Hole with them any more than you can equate Star Wars itself with them.  Are the laser blasts dated?  Go watch SW.  Are the robots cute/hammy/etc?  Go watch SW.  Does physics take it on the chin sometimes?  Um, seriously, go watch SW, where all the action is *consciously* based on WWII footage and so on.  (Yay!  Diving and banking in space!  "Laser swords" [that's what Lucas calls them, folks] that, erm, just *end* at blade length.  Et al...)  Do these things make Star Wars a stinking pile like, say, Battle Beyond the Stars?  No!!!  Star Wars completely rocked because it *was fantasy* and allowances were made for its stylized depictions.  It still rocks because when you watch it, you forgive it for having to be made sometime, and that sometime was the 70s.  So if high-flying Battle for Britain/Midway/etc. dogfighting, cheeky droids, and inconsistent mystical shenanigans stylistically fit the concept of heroic fantasy for Star Wars, then a sense of mad-scientist noir plus some Star Wars-esque 70s trappings shouldn't detract from The Black Hole.  Blasting this movie for it's time or style is like blasting, say, The Dark Crystal because the characters' mouths aren't always that mobile, or because the Gelfling race is scientifically doomed to deformations and so on if only the two characters are left to repopulate the species.  I'd put that film up against 99% of the dross populating any of the genres in which you care to place it, then or now; I think the same of The Black Hole.

So if you've never watched this movie before, just imagine a time when there was only one Star Wars movie, its knock-off clones were laugh-aloud awful, there weren't eighty zillion dollar special effects zap-fests coming out by the diaperload every summer, there was no instant movie watching/spoiling/reviewing/fan-editing/etc. on your computer or phone or combination phone/reader/toaster or whatever, there were 13 channels on TV and maybe half of them broadcast something (and if you missed it, tough), (and, well, there was no Amazon or any other place like it for people to write long counterargumentative reviews like this one!)  Imagine being hungry for some decent space opera/science fiction.  Now imagine hearing about a sci-fi film that *didn't* try to just knock off Star Wars or talk down to you every three seconds about the plot.  Imagine you can bring (within reason) your family to it because it isn't Alien-style dark (i.e. loaded with grubby characters that curse like sailors right up until their sticky, graphic end), but it's still dark enough to be interesting.  Imagine just sitting down and enjoying a good cast in a well-visualized movie full of style, atmosphere, and action -- all with a visually mesmerizing, thought-provoking ending.  Doesn't that sound, in context, like a good time?  I'm glad my family thought so in 1979, and I'm perfectly happy watching it now.  If you can use your imagination this way, or in general, maybe you might as well.