This fascinating drama has relevance for today's audiences in terms of the questions it poses. However, as others have pointed out, it is best appreciated in the context of the times in which it was written (1959) and here produced (1970). Of course, the original piece on which the televised production is based invites direct parallels with the Nueremberg Trials circa late 1940s, which is what the author intended. However, with the My Lai massacre having engendered front page paroxysms of outrage in 1968, George C. Scott took considerable risks with his interpretation, clearly presenting Henry Wirz, the Swiss-German Commandant of the Andersonville prison, as the same kind of "scapegoat" he obviously felt Calley represented.

With everything now known about the personal role Wirz really played in the atrocities for which Andersonville was notorious (mirrored at northern Civil War prison camps later in the war), it's difficult to watch this production without seeing it as a highly dated period piece. With the advent of more objective Civil War scholarship, Andersonville and Elmira are now recognized as having been little more than death camps, with thousands of men left to die in the open air, mostly of starvation and disease. One crucial piece of evidence brought against Wirz at trial is that he explicitly blocked an effort on the part of the local civilian population to provide food, medicine and other supplies to the Union prisoners. That Wirz attempted to blame his superiors in Richmond for his cruelty with the I-only-followed-orders-what-did-they-expect-me-to-do-with-so-many-prisoners argument should come as no surprise and, of course, presages the central question at the heart of the Nueremberg trials. Although there are differing theories as to the reasons why prisoner exchanges stopped after a certain point in the Civil War, one thing is certain: Today it would be impossible to portray Henry Wirz as anything other than the monster he was. This was not a man who was persecuted for his immigrant status, as he apparently tried to assert. Casting Richard Basehart in this role in 1970, therefore, can only be seen as Scott's attempt to portray Wirz as a sympathetic character and Basehart engages in a fair amount of scenery-chomping for the purpose.

Also in the spirit of the times is the fact that it was Jack Cassidy, who plays Wirz's  counsel, not William Shatner, the prosecutor, who won the major award for the production--back in the days when defense attorneys were our cultural heroes. The real credit, however, goes not to the leads, but to the supporting cast: The actors who play a young, shell-shocked survivor of the camp, a local resident of Andersonville, and a tough, cynical professional soldier, all deliver flawless performances.

One sees how the "production values" of film and television have changed in forty years when watching this piece, which never takes the viewer more than a few feet from the courtroom, but somehow manages to convey a lingering sense of horror without a single flashback scene. No hi-tech provided and no gadgetry required. This is what audiences miss today.