National Treasure is proof of what us "common" listeners, movie goers, readers and observers have suspected for a long time;  That critics are usually wrong/stupid.  This movie got bad reviews.  Not even bad - abysmal reviews.  And do you wanna know why?  After everything is said and done, it's because there's no sex, no foul language, and it's entertaining instead of disturbing.  Well we can leave them to the business of deciding what our likes and values "should" be, and we they can pontificate why movies they view with disdain end up as year-end blockbusters.  With that being said, I feel I should come from a different angle.  This movie is also NOT an anti-Christianity film (and I find it interesting that people would equate it as such, seeing as there are so many other mediums that are).  The plain and simple facts: pretty much everyone involved in shaping this country: from establishing it, to breaking from England, from the signing of the Declaration of Independence, to the men we've elected as Presidents have been Christians.  ALSO, more than half the men that signed the Declaration were Masons.  Simple facts.  George Washington was a Mason.  Ben Franklin was a master mason.  Lodges were established pretty much everywhere across the East Coast.  There's no way to dispute these things because they happened.  Coming to the conclusion that masonry is anti-Christian just shows a lack of knowledge on the subject (especially since most masons are Christian to begin with).  This is a completely different topic (something that I wouldn't mind discussing with anyone via e-mail), so onto the movie.

It's well written, interesting, with a cliff-hanger look into history that more than acknowledges Dan Brown.  (By the way, Dan Brown's new book is on the same subject as this movie.  I'm not sure which is interdependent.)  It's well produced, well casted, with very few lagging moments.  The story is great and the American historical sights are filmed very well, showing masonic influence in virtually everything our Founding Fathers did.  I really don't see how this can be construed as negative.  Perhaps critics don't like Disney.

Seeing an early edition DVD of this movie, I can say that the special features are certainly lacking.  Putting any type of "history channel" type documentary of the evolution of templars-to-masons would have been nice.  Even masonry in American history would have been good.  Basically, there's a 5 minute mini-history that covers the same ground as the movie or is common knowledge.  Perhaps the "special edition" will have more.  The lacking special features pales to the greatness of the movie.  One of the best!

Overall: 9 out of 10.