This video does a good job in exposing the US Government's battle with John Lennon over his 60's politics. It shows how Lennon was constrained by the Beatles' popularity when asked political questions as a Beatle. Seeing how the Beatles had become immersed in a counterculture revolution Lennon felt he had some real answers to those questions and saw an opportunity to catapult Yoko's conceptual art, mixed with his political rock, into something effective that would answer those questions.

  The Plastic Ono Band saw its opportunity at the John Sinclair Benefit in December 1971. Lennon's Beatle power was so influential it managed to get Sinclair freed from a ten year jail sentence the day after the concert. Seeing this, Lennon was then enlisted by the Abbie Hoffman, Black Panther, hippy anti-war movement into a mobile caravan that would end-up at the Republican Convention in 1972 with the intention of overthrowing Nixon by defeating him in the election. This got Lennon on some serious US government radar screens including FBI and CIA. This background is best viewed in Phil Strongman's book 'John Lennon: Life Times & Assassination'. Strongman found scary clues that FBI was interested in knowing the specific Michigan state trooper security arrangement and location of officers in the hall as if there was some kind of tactical plan that needed to know this. Soon after Nixon managed to stifle Lennon's participation by getting the Immigration Service to try and deport Lennon on marijuana charges. This video covers this struggle in extensive, informative context.

  The reason I wrote this review is because this excellent production is a steppingstone for the next needed production showing how this background led to Lennon's assassination by CIA Manchurian Candidate Mark David Chapman. Anyone with good understanding of the context shown in 'US Vs Lennon' would realize right away it exposes a screaming path of evidence for the motive and means by which Lennon was killed. This full US intel commitment against Lennon was the surface embodiment of some very ugly US government covert programs of the era. Lennon embodied a force that ended-up crowding Washington DC with mobs of angry anti-war protestors. This movement directly led to the withdrawal of the US government from Viet Nam. This was something that intel doesn't forget quickly. Like the intel hypnotic programming of Sirhan Sirhan, Mark David Chapman was a sleeper manchurian candidate patsy waiting to be triggered. This can be seen in Fenton Bresler's book 'Who Killed John Lennon?'. Lennon's execution was no different than numerous other CIA decapitation operations throughout the world. A return to conservative government and CIA power in a covert Central American war soon followed. Lennon's assassination made sure giving peace a chance would never interfere with this new regime and its agenda.