I took a star off this one as I found that although the camera work is beautiful to look at - a spotlight with dancer in middle - the spotlight isn't quite big enough and the feet end up in the shadows so you can't see if the toes are pointing, flexed or turned out (especially in the floor work) added to this they are wearing dark shoes so hard to see at times.

The workout itself is fabulous and I don't understand the criticism from other reviewers.  If you are after a ballet dancing class that you can dance along with, this isn't for you (try NYCB 2 - I own this too and have reviewed it) - but this never claims to be a ballet class - it clearly states it is the workout the NYC ballet dancers use to get into shape and allow them to dance.  Ballet dancers do cross-train - they go to gym and do crunches and weights! (check out the video diaries in the 'extras' if you don't agree).

The workout is very user-friendly - split into 17 parts so you can do any/all with great floor and standing work for toning and balance.  I guess many of us who are used the constant cueing and counting of reps with conventional aerobics tapes find not being spoon-fed the routine a little frustrating. I think the cueing is a little lacking in parts here, but the routines are fairly short and the movements repetitive so they do become much easier each time you work out.  If you have prior pilates experience you will pick it up very easily.

If you only have the money to buy one ballet workout, I'd choose NYCB 2 over this one as the cueing is better, it has the end dance routine that is so much fun and there is more explanation of the moves (especially with the glossary).

Someone said Peter (he narrates) is snobbish and the dvd too arty.... I disagree! Peter speaks beautifully and has a lovely soothing accent, perhaps people interpret it as snobbish? and as for the dvd being arty - isn't ballet an art?  It is beautiful to look at and listen to.  It will leave you feeling taller and more toned (like pilates), but not exhausted.