This film is all about symbolism. It is about man's attempt to reach to the sublime and transcendent while living through the eternal woes and toils of a hypocritical, harsh world.

There are many ways that men try to reach to heaven in this film: in the opening scene we have a proto-scientist/crazy peasant who achieves flight in a hot air balloon, only to come crashing down a few minutes later. In the second seen we have a buffoon/subconscious revolutionary who mocks the arbitrary ridiculousness of the rigid hierarchical world of boyars and priests only to have his tongue cut out. In the third scene we have the remnants of the pagans trying to overcome the dreary world of medieval Russia through the ways of the flesh.
Artists create great works and get their eyes gouged out by kings. Brother betrays brother and robs his own village. Tatars rape and pillage without mercy. The reality of this world is unflinching.

Finally, the end scene: a young boy engineers a giant church bell through his own wit and cunning. If he fails he will surely reach the same fate as those before him who displeased the ruling classes, but the bell is a success.

The symbolism in the beginning of the film, that of the yoke which stands over the peasants is replaced by the symbol of the hero slaying the dragon (the emblem of St. Michael emblazoned on the bell).

It is a symbol of alchemy, of man's constant risk-taking turned into the ultimate triumph, and thus this film is exceptionally optimistic about the human condition and its ability to transcend the mundane, brutal world by proper use of the Will. From the many Promethian attempts to gain freedom in the previous scenes we finally witness the Herculean effort.

My own interpretation of the bell is this: the boy takes all the metal of the boyars to make this bell. They therefore have no metal left to craft swords with, therefore the world of violence and repression can finally be replaced by a new generation of inventive, optimistic people who will rule by reason and not by the sword. Of course, I could be wrong about this, but Tarkovsky is open to interpretation.