Some movies are "so bad they're good."  This movie is so disturbing, it's art.  Anything that could leave that much of a lasting impression on just about anyone who's watched it clearly has some merrit.

Part of me wants to give it 5 Stars.  From the twisted combination of bunny boy imagery and eerily-quirky folk singing in the intro, to the more memorable scenes of depravity, to the random low-fi (perhaps real) interludes depicting all sorts of nastiness, the film certainly does an excellent job capturing the emotion that is the disturbing side of low-class white America.  As a youth, I spent a lot of time hanging out with the kids on the wrong side of the tracks, and a lot of its depictions ring true, and it truly leaves you nauseated, somewhat like a good roller coaster ride.

Another part of me wants to give it one star.  The recurring theme of animal cruelty is in poor taste, and renders the film entirely unwatchable to anyone who's sensitive to that sort of thing.  I could never share this film with my girlfriend, for instance, without owing her weeks of apologies and dozens of roses.  Animal cruelty and cat overpopulation are realities of the White Trash world, but one scene would have sufficed... they really made it such a recurring theme that it was overly-sickening, and it detracted from the film immensely for me.  Also, it really felt like everything that could have been taking place in this town was passed through a filter that only allows sewage to pass through.  There was really no room made for the light side of humanity.  In reality, the law of the Yin Yang pervades... there's only so much darkness that can exist before a spot of light manages to pop out.  If Bunny Boy was the light, it was a rather dim one.  Way too unabashedly nihilistic for my taste- to miss the seed of good that exists in people is to fail to capture the whole picture.  If I were pressed to write a term paper for the positive elements of humanity showcased in the movie, I'm sure I could dig something out, but it was very deeply buried by a bevy of completely inexcusable characters.

Also, I didn't feel like the movie really delivered any point aside from "poor white people are really, really, really, really screwed up."  Some kind of revalation or resolution might have been nice, or at least some sort of finality that placed a philosophical capstone on the whole exploration.  As it were, it seemed more of an exPLOITation.  The movie felt like it was always trying to one-up itself in terms of how shocking and depraved these characters' lives and actions could be.  The more subtle scenes were far better than those that tried to shock you with brute force.

So ultimately I split the difference and decided on three stars.  If you're adventurous and enjoy movies that give you a real kick to the gut and give you sociological nightmares (i.e. any fans of the IFC channel), this is a must-see.  If you require movies to have some semblance of a storyline or if you find depictions of animal cruelty intolerable, then avoid this film at all costs.