OK, first off, I am not coming into this DVD from the MST3000/Rifftrax angle, I actually wanted a DVD of the film made fun of herein "Santa Claus & The Ice Cream Bunny". Now, SC&TICB is a truly miserable film - there is absolutely nothing positive you can say about it. It is torturous to sit through. BUT submerged in between this monstrocity is schlockmeister Barry Mahon's full-length feature "Thumbelina" - which is a perfect embodiment of this long lost sub-sub genre of motion pictures - the "Kiddie Matinee". These extremely low-budget, strange but somehow enchanting childrens' films were often English dubbed versions of foreign fairy tale movies. But every once in a while, a genuinely produced American film, usually of miniscule proportions entered the scene.

THUMBELINA starts off at long-defunct Florida amusement park "Pirates World" where vaporous hippy cutie Shay Garner roams around, rides rides, and enters a diorama-laden model exhibit of Hans Christian Anderson's classic tale. As she views the scenes, she imagines herself as the petite princess and *poof* the insanity begins. Cheesy but imaginative sets, tawdry but strangely compelling songs, lethargic "acting", and costumes that are akin to the quality of a grammar school play - all swirl together to create a far out psychedelic storyland.

However, "Thumbelina" - which is actually longer than the creepy inane Santa & Ice Cream Bunny bits that come before and after it - has been pretty severely truncated in this "Rifftrax" DVD edition. The previous VHS tape was of better quality and contained the entire movie. The whole MST3000 thing is not something I enjoy in the least, I don't need some nerd making jokes while I watch schlock - I like schlock!! And I have friends who can make jokes. But fortunately you can watch the EDITED version of this film without the lame idiotic riff track. For that, at least I am grateful. But the edits stink! Unfortunately no individual "Thumbelina" release has been made available on home video, even though it was originally released on its own, it now seems to be forever interred in this abysmal Christmas coffin.