I just recently saw David Lynch's "Blue Velvet" on the big screen (and in widescreen) for the first time.  Having seen it now in its original aspect ratio, I can't bear to go back to my pan-and-scan  videotape.  Thank goodness that it's coming out on DVD.  "Blue  Velvet," quite simply, is the best film of the 1980's; the only film  that comes close to it is Scorsese's "Raging Bull."  "Blue  Velvet" was so ahead of its time when it was first released back in  1986.  In fact, it remains so today, judging by the bewildered faces of  people who were at the revival showing I attended.  The film precedes  "American Beauty" in blowing the doors off of the closet that  Suburbia keeps its skeletons in, telling the story of a young college kid  who, after finding a severed human ear, gets caught up in murder and mayhem  in his hometown of "Lumberton USA."  Lynch goes to great  lengths to set up his picture-book depiction of small-town American life  (complete with bright red fire trucks, white picket fences, and blue skies)  before taking a wrecking ball to it.  Like he did in his debut,  "Eraserhead," Lynch shows us what we look like (tedium and all)  but purposely twists our view of it, like a mad optometrist giving us the  wrong eyeglass prescription.  Apart from the fine directing, "Blue  Velvet" boasts an excellent cast that delivers each line with patented  Lynch-quirkiness.  Kyle MacLachlan plays Jeffrey Beaumont like a modern-day  Dante, travelling through the Inferno he never knew his hometown was.  Isabella Rosselini is spectacularly disturbing as Dorothy Vallens, a lounge  singer whose husband and son have been abducted.  Her character is a first:  a femme fatale who is more dangerous to herself than anyone else. And in  what may be one of the top ten tour-de-force performances of all time,  Dennis Hopper, as oxygen-huffing crime boss/hedonist Frank Booth, makes you  laugh one minute, and cringe with fear the next after realizing that such a  person probably does exist.  You may not agree that "Blue  Velvet" is the best film of the 80's but you'll have to do some  digging to find one more original.  It is a contemporary film noir classic  that deserves to withstand the test of time like older noir classics such  as "Double Indemnity" and "The Big Sleep."  So far, it  appears to be holding up.  It's a strange world and "Blue Velvet"  (both the film itself and the fact that it was made) is solid proof of just  how strange it can be.