Imagine one day you decide to logon to Amazon, to buy your favorite movie. Your eyes make their way to the search field, then they move to the keyboard giving the OK to your fingers to begin typing. Your eyes bounce back to the screen.  You glance over at the time, but it's hard to see for some reason: something in your eyes is obstructing your view. You rub them gently, to get rid of whatever it is, but you notice it's now worst.  You open your eyes wider, in an attempt at getting more light in your eyes,  but nothing works.  You rub them again, and nothing.  You close your eyes and wait a while, and open them: nothing.  You are scared now, what is happening?  You rub them one last time out of futility, open them up as wide as you can, and realize the truth: you are now blind!

This is not a big budget movie, with stunts, and cool special effects, this is a work of art. This is a study into the nature of man (and women).  This is what would happen if "smart" people develop the ultimate bioweapon, and unleash it on the population.  This is what happens when a tree in the Rain Forest is cut down freeing a virus that causes blindness.  This is a look into a potential experiment orchestrated by God to punish man for his sins.  I can go on and on in speculation, asking how or why this happened, but this is what this movie does.  It creates a curtain for you to peek in and see things you should not ever have see.  It's ironic that this movie shows blind people in deplorable circumstances, but yet you can't seem to stop watching. You share the movie with Julian Moore's character, moving through the twisted earth, a world that has turned upside down, and is not the same place we once ruled. Civility and logic are replaced with unruliness and fear. The macabre scenes are surprising.  They illicit pity, and remorse.  You ask why this is happening, and hope to get an answer with each continuing chapter.  After "seeing" Blindness, all I wanted to do was talk about it.  I was excited to finish the movie and engage in conversation about the the deplorable nature of humanity in the face of adversity.  If the eyes are the windows to the soul, what happens when there is no one to see your eyes?

This movie was the scariest, engrossing, best disaster film I've seen in a long time.  Stories that take a group of people and put them in a position where all is lost, and nothing else matters but survival, and make them work together to solve a common goal or perish is what this author craves.  A day later, I'm still thinking about Blindness. A year later, I bet it will still be on my mind. I was blind but now I can see. 5 stars.