I can recommend this movie ONLY to filmmakers seriously studying the flaws or people that enjoy dogging on movies that missed the mark. In that sense it is a good candidate for the at-home game of "Mystery Science Theater 3000." Invite over a few friends and swap smartass comments about the movie while you view it.

If you are interested in a serious analysis of how brillant filmmakers missed the mark, read on.  Warning to anyone who only wants to hear glowing reviews of Tom Hanks - stop reading now, or fasten your seltbelt...it's going to be a bumpy night.

MY RELUCTANT REVIEW:

I have loved all the Coen brother movies but, unfortunately, this one was a disappointment .  It kills me to write this but here is my analysis of what went wrong...

The Director, Actor and Production Team did not Share the Same Vision and it shows on screen.

The tone of the scenes and characters are wildly uneven. The movie feels like it was pasted together from other movies of unrelated genres and time periods.  The odd combinations of mixed era costumes and set interiors are visually distracting. It takes awhile to figure out what time period the story is supposed to be set in.

When introduced to Tom Hank's character it appears the movie will be set in the 1920's but then you meet his landlady, and she is an artifact of the 1950's. The Sheriff  is a Mayberrry/Dukes of Hazard anomaly and about the time you settle into a retro-1920-1950's vibe you are suddenly  jerked to a contemporary casino scene resembling an Ice Cube "Friday" movie.  Each change in scene felt like channel surfing to a completely  new era and movie.

Okay, visual production issues out of the way, was there any chance the actors could save this movie?

Typically the Coens write quirky characters that are meant to be played full tilt boogie but here lack of a developed script leaves the actors running amok. Although the actors try to compensate their overwrought performances just amplify the offensiveness of the humorless material.

Hanks' performance as Professor Dorr might have been fun in a short SNL sketch but his over-the-top delivery is hard to take for longer than five minutes. His mugging affectations are blown even more out of proportion when viewed in the theater (or on a big screen). It is quite like watching the antics of a precocious kid who annoys everyone but his love-blind parents.

The story might have looked funny on paper but by the time it reached the big screen Tom Hanks had taken the Coen Brother's hostage. Hanks character interpretation looks like it evolved in a bubble, cut off from his fellow actors and unrelated to the stylistic tone of the surrounding production. The effect is jarring.  Why any of the black actors accepted these offensive Step'in Fetchit and Mammy era roles is perplexing and it is painfully unfunny. The casino scenes lack the usual Coen whimsy. Visually it feels like you accidentally clicked over to another movie.

If you are looking for the usual Coen Brothers whimsy you may wish to skip this one and save yourself the disappointment.  Instead, view ANY of the Coen Brothers movies.  If you are looking for a Tom Hanks comedy he was at the top of his game in "Big," "Splash,"  and "Forest Gump."