Without suggesting that Elroy's novel isn't itself very good, I believe that in LA Confidential we have the rather rare instance of a movie not  only doing justice to the source material but even exceeding it in  excelence of its type.  
If reading this to evaluate whether to rent the  film, the answer is "yes."  Unless, of course, you are looking  for a "family" film or are made uncomforatble by depictions of  violence or profane language (appropriate to profane characters), in which  case you probably have heard enough to know this isn't your cup of tea  already. Otherwise, even if you aren't one of those who is blown away by  it, you will find it to be a well made, engaging piece of moviemaking and a  heck of a fun ride while it lasts.
To return to the relation of the film  to the book, the novel less well focused than the film.  It is far longer,  of course and rightfully includes a wealth of detail and depth that no film  could encompass in a reasonable running time, but more than that, the sweep  of the novel is much broader and while the elements are indeed brought into  conjunction with almost ruthless efficiency, the connections sometimes seem  forced.  What the screenwriters have done is extract a coherent, dynamic,  engaging, and essentially complete story from a sprawling, misanthropic,  and often abstruse novel.  To be sure the surgery was effected at some cost  to the Vincennes character generally and the depth of Exley (sp?) who  survive in the movie, but on the whole the decision to focus on one melody  in the swirling symphony that is the book was a sound one.  
I should  note that in so commenting I am not suggesting the book is bad, for a novel  can handle more diverse themes, subplots and detail than a movie, but I  must say that while the film instantly engaged me and merited multiple  viewings, reading the novel was, while enjoyable, not an experience of  comparable joy.  In part this may be because, even setting aside the  oft-criticized "happy" ride off into the sunset for a few  characters, the film, while sufficiently dark in its outlook on human  nature to well warrant the lable noir, is more or less within the normal  bounds in its take on human nature, the will to power, and venality.  The  world of the book, by contrast is one that seems as if it would self  destruct in an orgy of revenge and ever-spreading destruction.  In both  book and film there is serious question as to whether anyone is innocent,  but in the book one begins to believe that everyone is guility not just of  something, but of something capital.
A prior reviewer has noted that s/he  regards the high body count of the film as disqualifying it as an heir to  the noir classics.  I happen to disagree, but I suppose that my own  tolerance for mayhem is reached not by the specific acts of violence, but  in the entire universe of the novel. The filmmakers have left the  corruption of the featured players and events intact, but leave room for a  "Mr. and Mrs. Middle America," the DeVito character's readers,  who can live their lives titilated, but otherwise generally untouched, by  the events of the plotline.
See the film, read the book.