"Carrie" is...without a doubt THE best horror film ever made!!! Well,next to "Dressed To Kill" & "The Shining",of coarse. Sorry all you naysayers of The Shining,but it is a directors right,when they take a book and turn it into a movie,to figure out what they want to include and what they want to leave out. Well,enough of that,kiddies,let us get down to business.The second scene,after the opening scene of a volleyball game,is a slow motion scene of the girls leaving the shower,some of them are naked,like the very lovely Nancy Allen (whom I have had a crush on since I was ten!!) while the other girls are in various states of putting their clothes back on.Oh,yea...Amy Irving is also a longtime crush. The piano and strings that are played during this scene are just lovely.Pino  Donaggio sure composes interesting music. (The music that he did for 'Dressed To Kill' just gives me chills!!) The split-screen  technique during Carrie's "Rampage From Hell" towards the end of the film was used to perfect effect.Nice to see what kind of carnage is going on while at the same time we see Carrie trying to figure out where to direct her telekinetic rage next!! I love Brian DePalma's use of split-screen.DePalma,if your reading this,you are a true master of the horror genre!!! Some of the most terrifying scenes,i think are,When Sue Snell,in her dream leans over to put flowers on the lot where carrie's house used to stand and then Carrie's hand comes out through the rocks. That scene just creeped me out when I was a kid and it still creeps me out today.More creepy scenes are Carrie,with all of that pigs blood dribbling down. Talk about a truly terrifying vision from hell!! Carrie's mom,coming at her with knife in hand,the close up of the very creepy-looking Jesus-on-a-crusifix,and of coarse Carrie's mom waiting for her behind the door when Carrie goes upstairs....And that about wraps it up. Oh,yea,one other thing,with all of the interviews with some of the cast included in the extras,why didn't John Travota do an interview?? Sort of odd. Oh,well  Ira  Coos Bay,Oregon