I was somewhat reluctant to buy this particular version of "Thunderball" when I noticed that the specifications on the rear sleeve of the DVD packaging listed the running time at 125 minutes. As most James Bond enthusiasts are probably aware, the original running time of this film is 130 minutes (one of the longer Bond movies.) I was reasonably concerned. Was I about to purchase an incomplete version? I decided to take a chance and get it, as it is one of the more enjoyable entries in the Bond series. When I checked the actual run time on the display on my DVD player, my worries were laid to rest. The film is fully complete at 130 minutes and not 125 minutes as the packaging indicates. The packaging is wrong. Now, in regards to the movie itself: This newly digitally remastered version (released on Feb. 6, 2007) is incredibly stunning. The picture quality is absolutely gorgeous and the clarity is amazing. This film looks like it was shot last week instead of 42 years ago. The sound options include Dolby Digital 5.1 and DTS Surround, and naturally it sounds fantastic. As far as picture and sound quality, this is impeccable. It just doesn't get much better. When originally released in 1965, this fourth entry in the James Bond series suffered from comparison to its two admittedly superior predecessors, "From Russia with Love" and "Goldfinger". However, time has proved it to be one of the stronger and more watchable movies in the Bond library and vastly superior to the remaining Sean Connery outings that followed, "You Only Live Twice" -which I still happen to enjoy- and the lackluster "Diamonds Are Forever". With Connery in top form as 007 and assured direction by Terence Young, "Thunderball" is a solid effort that no true Bond fan should be without. I give it 4 out of 5 stars. As with the other Bond re-releases, this newly remastered 'ultimate edition' has undergone a painstaking frame by frame restoration and looks and sounds superb. If you are a fan of classic James Bond, you can buy this DVD without reluctance or regret.