Count Dracula is my favorite of all of the versions of Dracula.  As already said it is the closest version to the book.  Louis Jordan gives Dracula a very sensual and aristocratic feel that a king of the vampires who has lived for hundreds of years should have.  I love the scenes where Jonathan Harker in the castle with Dracula's brides which includes the baby scene.  I love the special effects during these scenes, even though others have criticized them.  Frank Langella's Dracula copies some of them.  I love the book and this is the book.  Even though Christopher Lee is my favorite of all the Draculas because of his sheer presence, and fright factor, but many times Lee says little to nothing in his Dracula movies.  Louis Jordan speaks a lot and sounds like an aristocrat.  I also like the scene in the cemetery with Lucy (or is it Mina.  Yes it may feel a little too much like a play, but you can't have everything.  If you need a shorter version with more action see "Horror of Dracula".

Here are my comments on the main different versions of the Dracula novel.
Nosferatu 1922 - great, black & white, eerie, and silent; different than the book
Dracula 1931 - Bela Lugosi - slow by today's standards; but Lugosi is Dracula!  He created the stereotypical version role o  f what we think of as Dracula.  When ever  anyone "plays" like they are Dracula, they are playing Lugosi's Dracula.
Horror of Dracula 1958 - Hammer films first Dracula movie.  Lee is great with lots blood, power and action.
Count Dracula 1977 - Louis Jordan - my favorite version and the closest to the book
Dracula - 1979 - Frank Langella - based on his Broadway play version;  good but very different than the book
Nosferatu - 1979 - Werner Herzog's version with  Klaus Kinski playing "Dracula". Very spooky nice remake of the 1922 classic, but
  different than the Dracula book.  I like this version a lot because of Herzog and Kinski.
Bram Stoker's Dracula - 1992 Francis Ford Coppola's version - very nicely done, lots of interesting new twists, and special effects, but I
  don't like Gary oldman as Dracula.  He's a great actor, but I don't like him as Dracula.