I really looked forward to this film because DiCaprio is an excellent actor (and he did a fine job here), and I am a big Clint Eastwood fan as well.  So I willingly paid top dollar for this in my Amazon digital box and boy oh boy was I disappointed.  I really thought that Mr. Eastwood is so big he is beyond political destructiveness, so that he would tell the truth about this horrible little man, J. Edgar Hoover.

The real J. Edgar Hoover was deeply involved with the American Mafia all his life.  The mafia set up his happy horse race trysts with his gay lover and they kept the "dirt" on Hoover for his entire life.  The mafia was involved in the assassination of JFK and Hoover was not in a position to even investigate the crime.  You see, when Hoover was young, the ONLY place gay people could go for socializing was mafia owned clubs, and the guest lists at these clubs provided the mafia with quite a powerful blackmail weapon against many a politician, actor, activist, or any other public or private individual; Hoover included.  The power of the tools of blackmail was not lost on him and he became quite the master of it.  The movie touched on his files a tiny bit, but the guts of that story was completely left out.

Hoover was a paranoid angry little man who used his blackmail list to stay in his position far beyond his time.  He ruined the reputation of the FBI and his name does not belong on their buildings.  Hoover's fight to stay closeted has flavored many a closeted politician in today's Washington D.C. scene as well.  Seems today's politicians took a cue from Hoover, and they keep dirt files on one another today, and they use blackmail and backstabbing to run today's America.

Some gift this guy left for America, huh?  This aspect of this tiny, evil little man was never touched upon in the film.  Instead the entire film played like a soft shoe gay love story minus the sex scenes.  I was very disappointed.  I hope some day some director will write the truth about this guy.... how about it Oliver Stone?