I have read a few of the Unfortunate Events books and I liked them. That's why I thought that I should see the movie. So, I did and that's when the first unfortunate event happened. NICKELODEON MOVIES made this! All Nick does is put out crap on their television channel like Fairly OddParents and Hey Arnold. I don't know if it was their fault that the movie was so bad, but it very well could be.
So, here's the plot for the movie. There are 3 kids who have very rich parents. There's Violet, (Emily Browning) who loves to invent things, Klaus (Liam Aiken) who loves to read and of course Sunny (Kara Hoffman/Shelby Hoffman) who does nothing but bite and blab in her own language. (she's too young to have proper English) Then their giant mansion burns down in a mysterious fire, killing their parents and destroying everything they ever had. So, a banker named Mr. Poe takes them to the first orphan home place.
Their first home is owned by Count Olaf.(Jim Carrey) Now, I like Jim Carrey and all, BUT he wasn't fit to play Count Olaf. Although he's funny and he does well in the humor, there's a bad thing with Jim Carrey in this movie. His humor covers up the fact that he's evil. More people are gonna think Count Olaf is a comedian and not an evil guy that wants to get the huge fortune carried by the 3 orphans, now that their parents are dead. It just doesn't work.
Another problem with the movie is that it's seems rushed. The 2 houses after Count Olaf's only seem to be about 10 minutes. Just when you get to like one of the kids' guardians, they get killed. I just don't know where the 108 minutes the movie is all went. The movie just seemed really rushed.
But, this movie isn't ALL bad. I guess Jim Carrey was funny and so were the subtitles that told what baby Sunny was saying. I liked the short part that was based on the 3rd book and I thought the special effects were good in that part. Their 3rd guardian, Aunt Josephine, who was played by Meryl Streep, did a great job.
The layout for the movie was strange, though. They did the first part of Book 1, then Book 2, then Book 3, then the rest of Book 1. Only about 50% of the movie was something that actually happened in the book, also.
SPOILER ALERT: If you don't want to know the ending of this movie, do not read on.
But, the biggest problem with the movie was the ending. After the last part of Book 1 was over, Mr. Poe picks up the orphans and drives away to the next guardian. On their way, Mr. Poe stops at the burned-down mansion that was once resided by the kids. Inside the house, there is a letter that came in the mail. It was by the kids' parents. The letter says everything will be fine, although you've lost the house. Now, how the heck did the parents know the house was going to burn down in the first place and why has the letter been circling around the world? It certainly raises a lot of questions. Then, they just put the letter down, go to the car and it just shows the car driving off to the next house. Then it says the end. Oh, great. What happens next?
Overall, A Series of Unfortunate Events is an okay movie, saved by most of the actors and, of course, Sonny's subtitles. But, the movie has so many flaws, I have no choice to give it a disappointing 3 out of 5. Nickelodeon Movies, you've put out another crappy movie. THE END