In Lorraine Hansberry's masterpiece, A Raisin in the Sun, we are shown a world-wide crisis with which we deal with to this day: the importance of our reality and our dreams.  
Walter Lee Younger's father, who in the plot has recently deceased, left his family an insurance policy worth $10,000 (which is approximately worth $60,000 or $70,000 in today's monitary value).  Despite their sorrow, they are ecstatic because they can all now make something of their lives.  Unfortunately, they all have big plans with the money and, once again unfortunate, it involves the majority of the amount.  
Walter Lee wants to start a business with two friends and make a promising future for his son, Travis; Beneatha Younger, his sister, needs money to pay for her medical school; Lena Younger, his mother, has always wanted a house with a backyard so her grandson, Travis, can play; and his wife, Ruth Younger, desperately wants to move out of the "hole" they currently live in.  
Lena takes it upon herself to go out and put a down payment on a house in a completely white neighborhood.  Walter Lee is then dumbfounded.  After many drunken incidents and pleadings, Walter Lee convinces his mother, Lena, to give the money to him so that he can start being the man of the family.  After not following his mother's strict orders to place some of that money to pay for Beneatha's education, the money is all gone in one bad investment.
Without giving away the complexity of the ending, you can imagine what happens to his self-esteem and his likeness in the house.  There are multiple interpretations on a specific meaning to the story, but one that is perhaps impartial in criticism, would be that having a dream is what keeps us striving for the next best thing in our lives.
As mentioned in the movie in reference to judgment, "Make sure you done take into account what hills and valleys he come through before he got to wherever he is."  It's in that part of the play the idea of the story is exhibited.
Truly a great play, both in text and on film.  However, there are slight differences in the text as compared to the film.  These differences are very minor and do not effect the story, or the idea of the story, in any way.  Recommended as a leisure film or for analysis.