By now you probably now more or less what the plot of this film is.  If that plot sounds appealing, you will definitely like this film.  Well written, well directed, and very well acted, it takes a potentially schmaltzy premise and makes a very enjoyable film out of it.  Although the DVD box has the reviewer quote "Hilarious" on the front, for the most part this is an amusing and sentimental film, rather than a knee-slapper.  Once you accept the fantasy premise, most of the film rings true.  Sure, if the road not taken involves being married to Tea Leoni, the deck is stacked a bit.  But I really bought into the emotional truth at the core of this film.  My only quibble [SPOILER ALERT] concerns the ending.  Once Jack has come to love his suburban Jersey life and then is jerked back into his investment banker life, his actions don't really seem convincing.  After he tracks Kate down to her townhouse as she packs to leave for Paris, would he really turn away and leave without a greater effort to connect with her?  And having gone to the airport to make one last attempt to convince her to stay, would he once again nearly turn away after making only another feeble effort?  Seems inconsistent with his hard-driving nature and with the epiphany he had experienced in his Jersey life.  The brief scene that immediately precedes these scenes in which he tells his investment banker colleagues that he buys into his NYC life isn't enough to justify the feebleness of his subsequent efforts to win back Kate.  Clearly, these final scenes were meant to increase the drama of the eventual reconnection, but alone in the film they don't ring true to me.

Finally, there is a little bit of a glitch in the film.  [Continued spoiler alert]  At one point, Jack finds out that he and Kate moved from Greenwich Village to Jersey only after Kate became pregnant.  Their oldest child is at most five (more likely four), and 13 years have past between 1987, when Jack left for London, and 2000, when the movie is set. So that means they lived in Greenwich Village pursuing their Manhattan careers for at least seven years before settling in Jersey - unless, implausibly, Jack began working at Big Ed's early on and was commuting back and forth every day from Manhattan to Jersey.  A long enough time, you would think, for Jack to have made progress in the world of Manhattan finance, even without benefit of the London internship, and for Kate to have continued on her actual (non-pro bono lawyer) career path.  Presumably, the filmmakers needed a significant span of time to make Jack's rise to the top of the investment banking world plausible and to match Nicholas Cage's age (although Tea Leoni could easily have passed for being in her late 20s), and making their kids older would have made them less cute.  Unfortunately, though, the chronology doesn't quite add up. Still, a terrifically entertaining film (particularly at Christmas)!