I already owned the original "Fantasia" (on VHS), and bought "Fantasia 2000" when I bought my DVD player. I wanted to buy the "Legacy" DVD when I was down in Orlando, but the Disney people told me that the only way I could get it was to buy the Anthology boxed set. So I bought it, and I'm glad I did.
I'd forgotten how wonderful the original "Fantasia" is. I worked as an usher at my local movie theatre when I was in high school (in the 70's). For several summers back then, Disney ran their own little festival of their greatest animated films, and the kids flocked in to see them. Sadly, one summer they showed "Fantasia" as part of the festival. I say "sadly" because "Fantasia" is NOT in the same vein as "Snow White", "Cinderella", or even "The Jungle Book". Although it is an animated film I see it as too sophisticated for young children (with the single exception of the "Sorcerer's Apprentice" segment with Mickey Mouse) - and my point was proved when at least two thirds of the audience fell asleep during the film. But for older kids (ages 14 and up) it is a marvelous introduction to classical music - they can listen to several pieces of music and watch one man's interpretation of that music. And adults can both appreciate the music, and relive their childhood for a time by watching the animation.
"Fantasia 2000" will never really have the same emotional impact as its predecessor, but to compare these two films is really to compare apples and oranges. The animation in this film is completely different than the animation in the original. It's not a question of evolution, although the process has indeed evolved. The original "Fantasia" showed what could be done with the animation available at the time; so too does "Fantasia 2000" show what can be done with animation as it now is. Each in their own way, these films are the ultimate achievement of their time, and will serve as guideposts for animators for years to come. The major difference here is that "Fantasia 2000" was never marketed as a children's movie, even though Disney included the "Sorcerer's Apprentice" sequence in it.
But the major reason to buy this set is the third disc - "The Fantasia Legacy". There are so many extras in here that it would take far too long to describe them all. I'll just focus on one set - the pieces that Walt Disney had to drop from the film because they made it too long.
There is only one complete sequence - "Clair de Lune". The music and animation are just as spectacular as those that made into what is now considered the final cut. The others contained on this disc are only storyboards, but the music is included on a sequential showing of each of them. What a pity that World War II forced Walt to abandon his dream of replacing some of the existing sequences from time to time with some of those shown here - if the artwork is any indication at all, "Fantasia" could have been something REALLY special.