I watched this documentary recently in whilst on holidays in Europe. There was no spoken commentary and that was a bonus for a film like this.

If you are interested in human development - here it all is before you in the first year of life of four healthy babies growing up in caring environments. All the milestones from a Child health and development point of view and interesting observations of baby caregiver interactions are here to see in 4 different cultural environments.

This documentary also brings home the vast differences in the two more western environments -US and Japan, and the contrast of the Mongolian environment and the baby growing up in a very different environment in Namibia.

What we can learn from this documentary is that normal healthy human babies growing up in loving families and stable environments develop physically and emotionally in much the same ways despite all the things that we tend to think are essential in our western culture.

We see a vast contrast in the cultural environment in which the Namibian baby lives, for example, and our western culture where we tend to feel we need to have a vast array of purchased toys for each stage of development, lots of fashionable clothing, and often we are so isolated we really do need to attend mothers groups for contact with other mothers and to and learn from each other, and then there are baby gym classes to attend.

We can see from the other environments how all this tends to happen quite naturally in the Namibian group and in the Mongolian family it is different again due to the family's need to survive in their environment.

As a bonus, there are also the beautiful scenic backdrops of the locations.

Whilst this documentary is delightful to watch for anyone who adores babies, the important message here could be that healthy babies who are born into caring families who interact with them and give provide opportunities for learning end up developing normally in much the same ways, in these vastly different cultural environments.