My initial reaction to "Men Of A Certain Age" was that Ray Romano liked what Larry David did with "Curb Your Enthusiasm", and decided to get a couple of friends together and have some fun with a sparsely scripted sitcom and some hand-held camera.
However, this series has great back-story combined with underlying plot development which really brings it life.

As the character of Ray Barone has become so indelibly imprinted on the minds of "Everybody Loves Raymond" viewers, it actually takes a little while to get accustomed to Romano's character, Joe Tranelli, a recently-separated father of two teenagers, owner of a party goods store and a would-be golf pro with a slight gambling problem. You can hear the stories unfolding already can't you, and that's just Joe. Wait till you meet his buddies, Owen and Terry.

Although each episode is self-contained, the unfolding personal stories which backdrop each episode, begin to kick in a much more defined character study which soon had me  hooked.

The scenarios are not as off-the-wall as ELR was, with the family-crazy intensity that drove that series. This is more laid back, and therefore more true to life. The humour is less telegraphed, more mature, which makes sense  considering the series' name and the age of its creator and main protagonist.

It took a couple of episodes to really warm to the characters and the story line(s), probably due to ELR-based expectation. Once you adjust to the more real-world scenarios, peopled by real-world style participants, the humour mixes well with the dramatic story lines which leads to an enjoyable television experience, and one which harks back to certain radio shows of the 1950's.

Depending on what you liked about ELR, you may or may not take to this. MOACA is reality-based, subtle and mature. The writing is excellent and all the actors seem to be really into their roles, playing the irony straight, with great results.

I'm rating this 5 stars mainly because it not only ticks all the boxes, but doesn't herald itself as a 5-star production, which is worth a star in itself.