Can't say enough about this film.
I have read all of the Vampire Chronicles from Interview up until Memnoch, and I was very excited when I first heard that this movie was being made.
The film mirrored the book perfectly with exception to the ending.  No spoilers here, but for those in the know, I felt they did the ending because there was never any hope for making the Vampire Lestat novel into a film.  If they did, it would have to be like three hours long, and they don't do that for horror/dramas.
The cast was amazing.  I remember at the time hating Brad Pitt for having to endure watching Legend of the Fall with the girlfriend.  I just didn't see him as a serious actor.  And then I saw his performance as Louis.
He was brilliant and I don't think that there is any other actor who could have captured the tortured soul of Louis better.
And Tom Cruise. . . .I never liked him before either.  What did a guy who did [...] like Cocktail and Days of Thunder have any right to be granted the role of Lestat?  But he was perfect.  He exactly matched Louis's description of his character and mannerisms.  Although as the readers of the series will know, Lestat is a much different character than in this movie as we later see in the Vampire Lestat.
When you saw this movie upon its release and were presented with Kirstin Dunst, you knew instantly that she was going to be a star for generations.  I have never seen, even to this day and even counting Haley Joel Osment's turn in the Sixth Sense and better acting performance in a young person.  Never.  And when you see this film, you have to be in agreement.  To go from playing the part of a nine year-old girl to playing an ageless vampire with the wisdom seen in her many years is a daunting task, and the way she handled it left you with the feeling that she will have much more to show us in her years to come.
The only disappointment I had was in Antonio Bandaras.  Armand is supposed to be a teen when he died, not a slightly overweight forty year old.  If I can only find a couple mistakes in an adaptation then I have to say I am pleased.
You have to see this movie if you are a Vampire fan.  And even if you are not, this is a great dramatic tale that tells of how precious life is.  A must see.

Let's just hope that somebody gets brave and tries to make The Vampire Lestat into a movie with the original cast.