I will always wonder what I would have thought of HEAVENLY CREATURES had I seen it when it came out rather than now, after Columbine.  This film is based on the true story of two adolescent girls in New Zealand in the 1950s who kill the mother of one of them.  The crime was shocking and like latterday Americans, the New Zealanders must have staggered about saying, we just did not see it coming and how could two girls from nice families do this?  It is precisely that question that the filmmakers seek to answer and, in a very original way, succeed at.
The film follows the girls from the point they meet in the restrictive girls' school they attend to the moment of the crime.  In between it reveals two very intelligent misfits who are drawn to each other as if by a fierce law of physics.  Such is their affinity that they invent a fantasy world and inhabit it so intensely as to be able to envision exactly what the other sees in their minds.  Their bond and fantasies affect their judgment, throwing the usual excesses of emerging pubescence off kilter.  When events in their families' lives begin to insert themselves in such a way to threaten a separation of the two friends, they decide to remove the perceived obstacle in their path to togetherness.  
It would have been safe to suggest the mystery of the fantasy world but this film shows it concretely.  The clay figures the girls fashion to depict their characters are seen coming to life so that the audience also sees what they see and share.  There is wit, too, in the depiction of the very normal aspects of the girls' experiences with school and families.  In the end, the power of the film comes in the realization that no one aspect of the girls' lives is any different or less sympathetic than the stuff of many coming of age stories, it's just that in this case they were sucked into a vortex so powerful that it knocked out all the emotional safety catches.  The line between angel and monster is a very thin one and that is very scary.  That one of the girls is revealed to have become a well-known, successful personage in her adulthood just adds to the perplexity.
All the artistic ducks are in a row behind this production.  Acting, direction, cinematography, sound: all check out.  Disturbing but fascinating.