This is the 3rd season of True blood.
This series is loosely based on the Charlaine Harris books "Southern Vampire Series".

I can say the books I adore.  I was a die hard fan of the books when they first hit the shelf's.

The show is sort of close to the books, like season 1 and 2, the basic plot line is the same.  So if you read the books you will sort of know what is the story as a whole.
But the show unlike the books are not solely based on the Character Sookie.  They also bring lots of people and show their lives.

I really do enjoy some of the people the show has brought out that the book does not, such has Lafayette, such a great character.  Tara meh ... she seems to be everyone's smacking pole.

Anyway, this seasons story is picking up from seasons 2 where Bill proposed marriage to Sookie, she took a quick bathroom break and came back to find him missing.  So now Sookie is on a mission to find Bill.
She eventually discovers he was taken by werewolf's who are also in the pocket (in more then one way) The a King Vampire.

Many stories happen, from Jason meeting up with some people from hotshot to thinking his calling is to be a police officer, while dealing with the grief of shooting "Eggs".
Tara draws the attention of a new vampire in town, there to get some dirt on Sookie & bill.

Lafayette finds true love maybe?  Maybe ... but he definitely discovers more about himself and his hidden powers.

All the while Sam is dealing with his new family and a brother he never knew he had.

Erik tries to protect Sookie in all this but he has his own plan.

Its a bit hard to say more without revealing what happens, its a good series.  I enjoy it a lot.  I did find this season so so, not has good as the first one.  But better then the second.  It had some weird moments where I sort of wonder what the producer was thinking (like after Bill and Sookie sort of win against the were's at Sookie's home and have crazy jungle sex in the debris and blood ... a bit to weird for even me!)

Season 4 seems good, I hope it holds a bit more to the book ;)