I have noticed the criticism of the quality of the Region 1 DVD. At times it does look like the cinematographer smeared a gel on the lens for a blurred effect.  At other times it just looks blurred for no reason.

If that were the only reason I did not think much of this movie I would accept the mediocre quality and move on.  But there are many other things that make this quite second-rate.  One can start with the plot. It is not only convoluted but trite as well.

Yes, it is a story of obsessive love. Since you may not be able to tell the obsessives without a scorecard, and it does not give anything away, Max (Vincent Cassel) obsesses about Lisa (Monica Belluci), Alice (Romane Bohringer, a dead-ringer for Tracey Ullman) obsesses about Max. Daniel brings up the rear obsessing about Lisa.  Lucien, Max's best friend, dates Alice but does not obsess.  He is normal and, therefore, clueless throughout.

Max obsessively (of course) cancels an important business trip to Tokyo when he thinks he has heard Lisa's voice in a phone booth coming through a vent into a bathroom he is using at a hotel.  He later thinks he sees her on the street, ala Jimmy Stewart and Kim Novak. He believes that she left him without a word two years previously after they had been happily living together.  Little does he know. Telling you what Alice does would give the "mystery" away.  Let's just say it has been done much more artfully in other movies.

Bohringer and Cassel render poor performances as obsessive lovers. Neither is very convincing.  What agony or ecstasy they show looks very much like they are trying to act; so unconvincing.  Daniel, the third obsessive lover is not in the movie enough to show either emotion. It is probably just as well.  Daniel's character is so poorly developed that one can find nothing but a bad temper to provide motivation for the final scene with Belluci's Lisa. Very weak. Belluci's talent is terribly underutilized in this movie. Her talent, as showcased in "Malena," is well hidden here.

The writer-director Gilles Mimouni is all too obvious in his attempt to imitate Alfred Hitchcock. If you want a Hitchcock imitator watch Brian De Palma movies.  It seems that De Palma has spent his whole career trying to imitate Hitchcock and he does a much better job than Mimouni. Imitation may be the highest form of flattery but it is not the road to originality. The musical score is basic De Palma. It never changes its rhythm. It is relentlessly dark in mood regardless of the scene.  It sounds like it was recorded in an echo chamber

If you want to see the torture and agony of obsessive love brilliantly acted, directed, and beautifully filmed, skip this movie and buy "Vertigo."  It also has a gorgeous film score. If you have already seen "Vertigo," skip this movie anyway.  Hitchcock never had to resort to people just barely missing each other as often as this movie does in order to create suspense.  The myriad of "just missed" coincidences is a hackneyed made-for-TV convention not suitable for adult viewing.

I have no idea why this movie was ever titled "The Apartment."  Almost nothing happens there until the final scene.  It could just as easily have been called "The Cafe", "The Bar", or "Lucien's Shoe Store" for that matter. More action occurs in those locations than in the apartment.

Nothing in this movie seems real.  That is not to give it credit as surreal.  It is to say that it is not believable; even for one willing to temporarily suspend their sense of disbelief.  The fact that Max would have any attraction for Alice after he finds out what she has done is a prime example of art not imitating life at all.

Buy this movie only at a "going-out-of business" sale. I mean cheap.