I was surprised to find that TDK no longer has the license to issue this DVD and that no other company has stepped in to close the breach. Even though I have given the set five stars it is far fom perfect, both vocally and scenically. But it does date back to 1978 and in some ways it should be treated as a historical document. First HvK on made three operas live--the other two were a Rosenkavalier and Falstaff. The rest were films of varying degrees of execution. Karajan the conductor is one that will be remembered; his contribution to staging is is of questionable merit.

In 1978, Domingo was ten years after his Met debut; the voice is plangent and beautiful. Physically he is handsome and is an invoved actor. Alas he was not able to articulate the trills in the Ah si ben mio; in the studio this was not so much a problem. He is only alloted one verse of Di quella and the high C was hardly secure. I admit to being a fan and even with the mentioned short comings I rate his over any of the other Manricos. Kabaivanska has a very idiosyncratic voice; in Italy she became the verita assoluta. She had a fair to middling career at the Met, but she doesn't have the spinto voice that appeals to Americans who by and large prefer what Zefferelli called "vocal armchairs". It has resinous, somewhat reedy tember that I find appealing. I am not sure that I would have chosen her for Leonora, but I prefer her to Sutherland, Villaroel and Marton her competition on DVD. Alas she is not allowed her cabaletto in the last act. In 1978 Cossotto was in the final phase of her career; never a fastidious artist, she does throw herself in the role with great abandon.She can be somewhat casual as regards pitch, and is occasionally flat at crucial moments. I saw Cappucilli a number of times in Vienna; never the most exciting singer, he was one of the last Verdi baritones. If he were singing today he would have more engagements than he could accept. I found the voice quite beautiful.

This is currently only available through Amazon's "sellers". Even with the caveats I would recommend it over Trovatores that are in the current catalogue.