Roman Polanski's `Chinatown' is apt to fill a movie lover with longing for a lost time in Hollywood. Polanski himself, being interviewed for the DVD release, expresses with certainty that a movie such as `Chinatown' could never be produced in today's commercial climate. The story, concerning private eye Jake Gittes and Evelyn Mulwray, with its willingness to construct a realistic ending and its refusal to condescend to the audience, seems almost unthinkable in an age that focuses on cheap distraction for entertainment. Thankfully, though, `Chinatown' was created under the necessary circumstances to leave us with this absorbing motion picture. 
`Chinatown' begins as an ode to the old noir films, the black and white classics. It features a cool private eye, a seemingly deadly femme fatale, and a scandal just underneath the surface. However, `Chinatown,' made in the 70s, delves deeper into the possibilities than might be expected. It is a color picture, its private eye in a man pained by loneliness, its femme fatale might just be the most decent individual in the film, and the scandal deals not with diamonds or other typical noir devices - but a conspiracy involving water and power.
Jack Nicholson stars as Jake Gittes, the private eye at the story's center. `Chinatown' was made before Nicholson had become a huge star. At the time, Nicholson was certainly known, yet he had not quite become `Jack Nicholson' the icon, the personality, the character known for going over the top. In `Chinatown' Nicholson was able to explore his character, and give a wonderful subtle performance. Gittes is a man who pretends to maintain a sense of distance from his clients. Yet as the narrative unfolds, he finds himself more and more incapable of keeping that façade. Gittes' detective work results in his becoming involved in a conspiracy that goes beyond his call of duty. One may wonder why he opted to do these things; but, like all great films, `Chinatown' does not provide the audience with easy answers - the film trusts our intelligence. 
`Chinatown' offers little commentary as the story progresses. What Polanski does here, rather than stopping to bring the viewer up to speed, is simply drop us in the film and allow us to explore for ourselves. Being a motion picture, `Chinatown' emphasizes the importance of images rather than words. While a great deal of the picture is essentially dialogue, the setting, combined with the actor's facial expressions and gestures, conveys a particular mood. Polanski does a superior job of interweaving the unfolding scandal and the revelations about the characters' secrets. We are confused at first, wondering what is taking place, and then confused once it has been revealed - because we know not what to do. `Chinatown' successfully constructs a general emotion as the movie progresses - a sense of disorder and hopelessness - that ultimately reaches its climax during the scene's famous finale.
Polanski and screenwriter Robert Towne reportedly feuded over the film's closing scene. While Towne campaigned for a slightly more upbeat conclusion, Polanski felt that his version of the ending must be upheld `for the film to have any meaning' (as he said in the DVD interview). Indeed, the ending of `Chinatown' remains as one of the most powerful scenes in the history of movies - it manages to express a whirlwind of feelings, none of which point towards any possible conclusion. This illustration of helplessness and commotion in the face of powers that we cannot control perfectly articulates sentiments that all of us have encountered.