I must admit, upon first glance of the trailer, the only thing that caught my attention was the title, "BABEL". The word was one I am quite familiar with considering the story of The Tower of Babel was in mind. However, taking a sudden random interest in seeing the film just a month before it came out, I found out the story was much more complexed and original. Hailed as a recreation of the Academy Award winning Crash, which I had little to no interest to see, I considered Babel to be something that was being pushed below of what it actually could do with the limited release and already being ridiculed by people who hadn't even seen it. Blocking out all skepticism, I made the effort to see the film in the only theatre in my area where it was showing. I have no regrets of doing so.

When an American woman traveling on vacation with her husband and a group of tourists in Morocco is suddenly shot, a chain reaction begins. Suspecting terrorists, the American and Moroccan governments take action. Little do they know it was a small local family living in the mountains. The two sons, who had the rifle, were supposed to be protecting the family's herd of goats with it but instead began aiming at cars and also the tour bus. In Japan, deaf and mute Chieko, who's father once owned the gun, is having problems of her own communicating with anyone of the outside world, let alone does she make any real effort to do so. Not only this, but Amelia, who is the American couple's Mexican nanny, takes the couple's young children across the border to attend her own son's wedding when the couple does not return in time, only to find she may not be able to get them back. Along the lines, these six people will find they didn't have their world as well planned out as they had thought.

The cast was absolutely phenomenol. Filled with first-timers and world-class talent, each person is able to show their abilities. Adriana Bazzara shines as Amelia the maid. She was the most sympathetic out of all the characters, and her portrayal of an insanity set in by not being able to make it back to the life she left behind in America is absolutely incredible. Barraza's own level of commitment is also insurmountable. Because the screenplay called for her to talk the majority in Spanish, this may have enabled Barraza to bring out her full potential. I admit, she was my favorite actress out of the whole movie if not THE best.

I must also admit that I think this was my favorite movie Brad Pitt played in. I can't say I would own any films with him in it, but just the idea that he was playing a character that was not the lead (nor were there any leads except for the principles) was what also made me want to see the movie more because playing a supporting is usually more difficult. He did not shine on screen which was ultimately good. Usually when people go to see a movie, they go to see the star. This was not his case, however. They were actually seeing the character of Richard and not just Brad Pitt which I was amazingly shocked he could pull off without pulling his usual stints in the process. Well known actors Gael Garcia Bernal and Cate Blanchett also did the same. Both are of high-stature in hollywood and in their home countries, but ultimately make room for the unknowns, who end up being just as good (or in Barraza's case, BETTER) than the super-stars. Koji Yakusho should've been given more time than he was, but makes a nice supporting star in the film in the simplicity of his role.

I will give a lot of notification to writer Guillermo Arriaga and Director Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu for their bold and straightforward displays of the story that Babel puts forth. The atmospheric setting and the different sides of the world that are quick to make acusations, and how hard life is anywhere outside of your home country, even if you are only traveling, which are obvious nods to the Mexicans and the Americans in the movie. Though I can see a lot that could've been left out of the graphicness in the story of the deaf and blind Chieko, such as the full frontal nudity (which could've been done just as well with just implied nudity), the rest of her story, and the others are perfect in their complications. A lot is displayed in the 2 hours and 23 minutes the film runs, even giving you the idea that life runs slower than it really is.

The key element, which is not pushed out into the obvious but played along for the audience to figure out, is that all the characters are trapped in a world in which they cannot communicate with the people around them, hence the title BABEL. This was another thing that lured me in on account of we pass this by everyday without even knowing it. In Albuqueruqe, New Mexico where I live, it is very difficult to speak with people because the majority of people here speak spanish, while about 1/5 of the population ONLY speaks Spanish. Babel touched home with me on that aspect. I know Spanish, but I can only imagine what it must be like for people who don't. You could almost think of it as an innocence of ignorance as with the issue all the characters in the film experience. I'm sure with a lot of people Babel touched home, but I hope it picks up at the box office soon.

On the $25,000,000 budget, which the producers spent thoughtfully and and worthfully, the fruits of their passion on a six month shoot has brought us this amazing work of art to the world which should be noted to all kinds as a message that needs to be heard. Babel will feel as reality because it is a lesson in arrogance and hubris on many fronts. If you are a person who takes the time to experience reality daily as I did, you will feel for these people. If not, do not waste your time. It is very difficult for anyone of the routine world who cannot take the time to realize the little things in life such as being able to understand one another that could never understand a film as complex as Babel. Go in with a skeptical mind and come out feeling refreshed and waiting for life to meet you. I guarantee you that you will get something back.