Racheal Erb

Dr. Shea

English 110

Paper 3
The Fall
 The Fall is a (2008) visionary adventure film by director Tarsem Singh.  The film was shot in over 20 different countries, and the effort to capture the beautiful scenery of each of the individual countries is evident within the film.  The film covers the interaction between a severely injured stunt man, Roy Walker, and a young injured girl, Alexandria, who is also staying at the hospital.  The film follows the character's interactions both within the hospital and in a story that Roy is telling Alexandria.
 As the film progresses, it becomes clear that the director intended Roy to be both the antagonists and protagonists of the story.  The lighting around Roy's face changes with his intentions with his interactions with Alexandria.  During one heartbreaking scene where Roy is trying to convince Alexandria to steal morphine from the hospital to use in a suicide attempt, the lighting in the entire room goes much darker, except for around Alexandria's eyes.  The light from Alexandria's eyes was used to demonstrate the innocence and general trust that she has for Roy's intentions.
 The film also reflects on how our past knowledge is used in our imaginations.  While Roy is telling the fantasy to Alexandria, the costuming for his otherwise partially historical characters creates a futuristic feel to the film.  Darwin is the scientist of the group, and acts like an observer to the character's movements, but he wears a red, white, and black furred coat with a bowler hat and black boots.  Another character, Otta Benga, a fit former slave has what one would anticipate for traditional garments, but has a hat more recognizable in Hellboy then in a historical image.  Certain props within the film also show the mixture of futuristic and historical, such as the space-aged car in front of the Taj Mahal.
 The setting of The Fall creates an adventure within itself.  The heroes of Roy's fantasy must battle their way through a desert to an insane maze, and back to the riches of royalty.  As the characters face each new physical area, it becomes quite clear that certain characters are not as readily able to adapt to the new setting as others.  Roy's fantasy character responds the same regardless of location, but as Darwin moves to the palace it is clear that he is outside his realm of comfort.
 An incredible feat of the movie is that it was done entirely without any computer, CGI, support.  While watching the film move across the fast land of the desert to the close shots that stare directly into the character's eyes, I realized just difficult the movie was to create without computer support.  To think that all the shots in the film had to be created physically, and then captured at the precise moments to visual the true artistic mastery it's a phenomenal success.
 Due to the amount of time the director committed to the film, there is a certain expectation that the viewer will also dedicate time to the film.  Therefore, the story moves rather slowly.  Everything from the camera's flow over the individual characters, to the speed that Roy speaks is done in a slow fluid movement that captures the beauty of the scene.  This does detract somewhat from the core story of Roy's journey from dark to light.  Yet, certain scenes would not have an impact for Roy's character if they were rushed through; in those cases this technique was vital for creating a masterful film.
 One moment, in the movie, that is very memorable is during one of Roy's earlier fantasy stories.  The fantasy army is found trapped within a desert after just escaping the opposing army with no supplies and no map to show them the way home.  A messenger sent out to look for water, who carries a single helmet of water, reaches the commander.  The commander takes the helmet and slowly pours all the remaining water onto the burning sand, giving hope for any of his men to survive.  The negative outcome of those men reflects Roy's loss of hope for his own personal survival and lack of will to live.
 Roy's story reflects the film's almost desperate
plea for hope.  As the characters make their way through each fantastical image, there is an undertone of man trying to find a reason to live.  With each prop, whether it's a futuristic car or a burning tree, Roy is trying to distract himself from his reality.  He is looking for not only a reason to save the characters in his story, but also himself.
 Alexandria's blind belief that the heroes of Roy's story reflect the little hope Roy has in within him for a better life.  Alexandria's challenging childhood, but perseverance for hope in Roy and herself, demonstrate to Roy the hope he could have if he chooses.  At the end of the story, when it is only Roy's character and Alexandria left alive, Alexandria cries out in desperation "why is everyone dying?".  Roy realizes that Alexandria is asking why does he have to die?  He finally succumbs to the girl's wishes that he lives, because he realizes that Alexandria loves him.  He has to be bigger than his own personal demons, to spare Alexandria from developing her own, through his death.
 The Fall is a quirky film that shows the darkness found within all people, but also the light and courage to survive that lives within the very young.  The subtle changes of lighting give great support to the emotions of the characters.  The actions of Roy's fantasy characters and their personal appearance reflect Roy's incapacity to see the light himself.  The images are used to not only tell the tale of Roy's fantasy, but also provide insight into the thoughts of Roy as a character himself.