Although the Trans-Continental Pop Festival is a forgotten footnote in rock n roll history (except if you were there, saw the '74 film JANIS [which contained a few performances] or are a GD tape trader looking for the part of the shows that were in circulation) the film gives the event a second look at a unique period in early 70s music.  If you have seen WOODSTOCK, this film has the same feel with the usual hippies, peace signs, love beads, illicit substances and an audience looking for a free ride.  The Festival Express did not become a cultural phenomenon like its predecessor, but there were a lot of fine performances from the Grateful Dead, Janis, The Band, Buddy Guy, Sha Na Na, Ian and Sylvia etc....all who performed at various rock festivals in the era, and captured that unique spirit very well.

I saw FESTIVAL EXPRESS in a movie theatre in Philadelphia, and was impressed how well the vintage footage was preserved.  Although it was shot almost 35 years ago, the colors are so vivid, the multi screen images are a headful, the stereo sound is extraordinary. Garcia & Janis look so young, like they were still alive.  The movie's release on DVD this month was worth waiting for, because like the theatre presentation, the home video looks beautiful in color and sounds great in headphones!!  There is also wealth of bonus performances. FESTIVAL EXPRESS is a five-star movie.

Unfortunately, all the good stuff is on disc one, and disc two is a total waste.  There are additional interviews and a trailer, but there is no actual vintage footage of the Festival. The important comments from the producers and the musicians are in the movie itself (disc one), so the additional interviews are rendered uninteresting and lifeless.  There's a useless "photo gallery" that is taking up dvd space. Ultimately the consumer is paying for a double dvd price, and will detect a rip-off.  This release should have been a one-disc affair because the priceless vintage footage is the main attraction of FESTIVAL EXPRESS.