I was so excited to rent this movie and i cannot believe how BAD it was.  With Steve Martin and Queen Latifah I thought this movie was going to be really good. It turns out most of the funny parts were already on the commercials where we've already laughed a bazillion times before.  It also seemed too racist.  Were the racial jokes by Betty White as their neighbor supposed to be funny? And another thing is how come when Queen Latifah's character had a party when the kids came home with Steve, their neighbor didnt do anything. And then when the neighbor was outside later in the movie, they hid her behind an inflatable raft?!?! I didnt get that at all.  It seems like also the kids just seemed to welcome out of the blue that a strange person who was very different then their own culture was randomly coming over to their house.  The dinner scene was also offensive.  A client of Steve's comes over to dinner and because of that he asks Charlene (Queen Latifah) to cook dinner for him and dress in a southern black made's costume. Nothing was funny about that and I found it offensive. I thought it wouldve been funnier if they wouldve had Charlene act "white' again and pretend to be another one of his clients. The comedy just didnt work also in this movie.  Steve and Latifah were great but Eugene Levy just seemeed "there" and was hardly any more funnier then the stuff you saw on the previews.  Charlene's reactions to his "Ebonics" could have been really funny... but they were not. The only funny part was at the end where they take the old lady client of Steve to the club where she smokes and drinks which was funny as heck. But otherwise this movie did not deserve to be number one.  If you want a FUNNY Steve Martin comedy check out "All of Me" (with Lily Tomlin), "Father of the Bride" and the remake of "Out of Towners" (with Goldie Hawn). This is by far his WORST film and he should be ASHAMED of himself (IE: Will Smith and 'Old School.")  If this was supposed to be a comedy you couldve fooled me. Do not waste your money. If you buy this you are only shooting yourself in the foot.