WWF continued their streak of great PPVs in 2001 as this was one of the best shows of the year to the point where it's a shame that it was forgotten later in the year due to the Invasion angle taking up the rest of the year.

Rikishi vs William Regal. This was a short but enjoyable match as Rikishi was injured during this time while Regal makes some of the funniest faces after receiving a stinkface.

3 Stages of Hell Medals Match: Kurt Angle vs Chris Benoit. The first fall was a pinfall only match that Benoit won in less than a minute. The second fall was a submission match while the third was a ladder match with the gold medals being hung above the ring. Angle & Benoit never had a bad match as this was one of the best matches of the year with these two putting on an awesome performance along with telling a great story of Kurt being behind early in the match & having to catch up to Benoit along with Edge & Christian making a cameo in the end.

Hardcore Champion Rhyno vs Big Show vs Test. This was one of those matches where they spent more time out of the ring than they did inside as they brawled in the crowd, went to the backstage area & eventually returned back to the ring to use weapons like trash cans, a fire extinguisher, & steel steps to make their moves more impactful. An enjoyable match but one moment to check out is Rhyno's gore to the Big Show using the trash can for impact.

WWF Women's Champion Chyna vs Lita. This was Chyna's best match during her reign as champion due to the fact that Lita was able to bring out a good performance out of Chyna instead of being reduced to squash like most of Chyna's matches.

Chain Match: Intercontinental Champion Triple H vs Kane. Before they went through a dumb storyline in 2002, they gave an awesome performance in this chain match as they really beat the living hell out of each other to the point where Triple H was rammed into the post while he had a chair in his hand that busted him open. The ending featured Stone Cold Steve Austin getting involved & accidently hitting his own partner to give Kane his first Intercontinental championship.

Tag Team Turmoil. This was the best turmoil match that the WWF had done as there were many series of matches & situations going on here. Moments include some decent wrestling between the Radicals & APA, the interaction between the Dudleyz & the Hollys that lead to D-Von getting the Alabama slam through the table, The Hardyz putting on a good performance with X-Pac & Justin Credible with Albert getting involved in their matches. However, the big story here was Chris Jericho getting Chris Benoit as his partner & having two good matches including against Edge & Christian which is something considering Benoit just had a three stages of hell match.

No Holds Barred: WWF Champion Stone Cold Steve Austin vs The Undertaker. Undertaker threatened William Regal earlier in the night to make this a No Holds Barred match that Austin accepted without concern. This was just an intense & physical brawl with Austin actually working on the legs at one point & even delivering more lowblows than I can ever recall seeing in a match as this match ranks up with their SummerSlam & First Blood matches as my favorite encounter between these two with Vince McMahon doing commentary & Triple H getting involved at the end.

DVD extras include promos, skits from Sunday Night Heat & Kurt Angle's Medals Ceremony that was interrupted by Shane McMahon that lead to their street fight a month later at King of the Ring.

In the end, this was my favorite Judgment Day event of them all & one of the best from 2001 that is worth going out of your way to see.