As a motorcyclist and BMW owner, it was very easy to fall totally into the three adventures portrayed by these DVDs. Most of us only dream about such bike trips and thanks to Charley and Ewen, we're very thoroughly taken along for the ride. Quite frankly, my DVD player got quite the workout once the box set arrived.

That said, a couple aspects of the series could have been better. First on most everyone's list would be the language. With the exception of the KTM rejection and Charley's crash in the Dakar race, the bad language was unnecessary, gratuitous, and only served as conversation fillers as we would use the sounds "um" and "uh". When I first saw "Long Way Round" via Netflix, it was at a friend's house full of kids and the host embarrassingly stopped the show to shoe the youngsters from the room. At least our two protagonists seemed to get the hint during the last half of "Long Way Down" which is far more watchable from a parent's standpoint.

The series left the thrill-seeker in me thoroughly happy, but the other shortcoming came purely from my inner motorcyclist.  My biker side had dozens of questions the DVDs just didn't answer: Did they pick their gear because it was the best available or was it because it was free? Were they happy with all the gear they took or did some of it fall short? With support vehicles usually nearby, were their panniers full all the time? Where did they get their fixers and how much did they cost? Have you heard if KTM regrets their decision? Clearly, as a motorcyclist, I would appreciate an extra DVD with some honest answers to these questions, or did you leave them out because the answers would be embarrassing?

Despite these two minor complaints, the box set is truly remarkable and I'm left envisioning their next great adventure. It would start in Inuvik up in the Yukon and end at Rio Gallegos in Patagonia. It would start in the late summer and the incentive for fast pace would be racing against the coming of the snow and closing of the roads. Along the way they would swing by the Victory plant in Iowa and maybe pick up a few tar-balls on the shore of Louisiana. Then we watch our heroes eschew most of the Pan American Highway for lesser known back roads and dirt tracks as they wind their way southward, dodging drug cartels and right-wing militias. I can't wait!

What about it Ewen and Charley? Wanna go for another ride?