I take issue with the Editorial Rant from Jeff Shannon. It seems his superficial judgments are against the backdrop of the film and the context of the characters use of drugs to come to terms with their experience. Why would Amazon appoint a "critic" with such moral apprehensions to appraise a film which is clearly outside of his capacity to undestand?

You aren't into drugs? Fine. Neither am I, and personally, Las Vegas has never impressed me, but that isn't the point. Let's put this film into perspective as a product of a novel story and a cinemotographic achievement. The direction from Terry Gilliam evoke a powerful response from the viewer. To film this story requires such incredible creative genius, few are actually qualified to the task, one attribute being a dark sense of humor. and then the subject matter of course requires some thinking. Then we have the performances. I can't figure out between Benecio and Johnny Depp who stole the show as the performances are spectacular. There are enough cameo appearances to set records, further challenging the idea that this was a disaster of a film descending on hollywood.

The 70's was an unparalleled era and caught within this period are 2 characters awake enough to realize that their own lives were not enmeshed within the forces that guided to the times. So in an attempt to explore their existential quest, they embark on Las Vegas to test the fruits of the American dream through its most celebrated product Las Vegas. There is an element of being lost, desperate to make sense of it all...were they hippies? Rebels? Misanthropic and depraved animals? Why weren't they happy to be a part of it all? So this experiment takes shape spontaneously and within the folds of the adventures, you find a narrative still curious and growing more cynical which if you can suspend your judgment will mirror your own thoughts (at least mine). Seperation anxiety grows, but behind it all is the humor of a certain director. Thus you find yourself watching the drama/comedy/documentary.

Criterion has passionately enhanced the experience of this awe-struck viewer. And I think as time moves on, this film will be lost to obscurity, but not for all. If nothing else, it has +500 reviews as of this writing. Like it or not, it has aroused attention, too bad (for them) if the vast majority of lifeless and sleeping sheep don't get it.