Nearly 70 years after its original release, "Stage Door" continues to shine as one of the best movies of the 1930's, if not one of the best ever.  Credit must be given to screenwriters Morrie Ryskind & Anthony Veiller as well as director Gregory LaCava for turning a mediocre stage production into a striking screenplay.
"Stage Door" can perhaps be regarded today as a 1930's period piece - specifically a realistic glimpse into the lives of a group of struggling Broadway actresses who live at the Footlights Club, one of the myriad boarding houses common in the West Forties & Fifties of Manhattan at that time.  The actresses trade wisecracks between them as well as share their joys & sorrows.
The cast of "Stage Door" is just as sterling as the movie itself:  Katharine Hepburn as Terry Randall, the society girl who tries to barge her way into the theater world; Ginger Rogers as Jean Maitland, the street-smart dancer; Adolphe Menjou as the cynical, womanizing producer Anthony Powell; Constance Collier as the hard up but still proud veteran actress who becomes Terry Randall's coach; a group of up-and-coming stars including Eve Arden, Ann Miller (who wasn't even 18 yet), and Lucille Ball; all the remaining members of the ensemble who contribute in their own small way, especially Phyllis Kennedy as Hattie the maid, and Norma Drury as Olga, the prospective concert pianist who'd rather talk about subjects other than men & the constant complaints re boarding house food.
But of all the performances in "Stage Door", the most outstanding & poignant is that of Andrea Leeds who received an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress as the sensitive, tragic, defeated actress Kaye Hamilton who was a Broadway sensation a year earlier but now can't find a part to play anywhere & literally starves herself to be able to stay at the Footlights Club.  Gregory La Cava called Ms. Leeds "...the best natural actress that has ever passed under my hands."
"Stage Door" is also famous for one of Katharine Hepburn's best-known & most-mimicked lines:  "The calla lilies are in bloom again."  
For one of the finest examples of moviemaking Hollywood has ever created, you cannot go wrong with this film.