If you are looking for a movie with sumptuous landscapes and costumes, exotic locales and characters, and a highly romanticized story, this fits perfectly.  If you are looking for a movie with real meat to the story, this does not do so well.  Both Ben Cross and Amy Irving who play the protagonists do not appear to advantage in this film.  [For a better performance from Cross, try CHARIOTS OF FIRE, for that from Irving, try CROSSING DELANCEY].
This kind of movie also paints a distorted view of British India in this time period, romanticized but bearing as much resemblance either to 19th century India or modern India (and South Asia) as would ALADDIN (Disney version) to the Middle East ca 800 or today.  Part of the problem is that the film has cut so much of the beginning of the novel (actually, pretty much the first third ) away.  That leaves the viewer in limbo when Ashton Pelham-Martyn appears as a British officer with an Indian background.  What kind of background?  That is much better described (and far more believable) in the novel than in the film.
Of course, it is hard to compare novels and film adaptations.  On the other hand,  we do want the story within a film to make sense.  Given the complexities of the plot, what is left out gives us little understanding of why Anjuli's position is so bad, or for that matter, why Ashton's "Indian" background leaves him highly suspect among his fellow officers.  [Not to mention the fact that an important little sub-plot is almost totally excised].
If you have read the novel before watching the film, the story will make more sense.  On the other hand, if you are just looking for eye candy,  this film version is fine as it stands.  
 For the record, if you want to read about 19th century Raj customs and stuff, read Kipling's KIM or anything else by him or watch THE MAN WHO WOULD BE KING.  Paul Scott's THE JEWEL IN THE CROWN (TV series and book) and E.M Foster's A PASSAGE TO INDIA (film by David Lean and book) offer a much-better more nuanced and better-researched look at the last decades of the Raj (1920s to 1940s).  For stories set before 1857, I am not really sure there is anything that has been well-translated to the film medium.