Absolutely the best example of characterization and story telling to be found anywhere. You can make fun of the English for a great number of things, but they have the entire planet cornered on acting! This mini series is perfectly cast and if you give it a chance to get going, it will HOOK you from start to end.
This is surprisingly one of the sexiest shows I have ever seen, too. Not really for young kids or young teens. Brian Blessed is perfect as Augustus, an emperor for whom the job seems too big and exhausting sometimes, but this is because of his scheming wife who will do ANY thing to get her sons the big position held by her husband. Patrick Stewart also gave an incredibly strong and unforgettable performance as a military man looking to sleep his way into royalty and power. He pays by being dismembered and publicly displayed. I'm sorry he's become Americanized with such schlock as the Star Trek stuff.
The series has some unforgettable moments such as when young Claudius is standing with a group of kids and an eagle drops a wolf pup into his hands (wolves, the symbol of the Roman Empire.) It could have been the strong kids, but it's little, slow, stammering Claudius. Then, Caligula (John Hurt) in one of the funniest scenes anywhere shows up in frightful, ungodly drag as some sort of goddess and dances around poor Claudius who knows if he laughs, he'll be instantly dead. When Claudius becomes emperor, the love of his life wife, unknowing to him, takes on the biggest wh*re in Rome to see who can lay the most men in a day. And she beats the wh*re. The wife is then forced to commit suicide by knife, but can't and is forcibly decapitated as she begs for her life.
Tiberious becomes a sexual deviant and forces a woman to do perverted acts in exchange so that her very young daughter doesn't have to. The woman disembowls herself in front of everyone at a dinner because she feels so violated and dirty.
Augustus'beloved can-never-do-anything-wrong daughter beds most of the Roman senate and all her dad's friends and he banishes her to an island forever. Everyone is sleeping with everyone and it's a little tough to keep up, but verrrrrrry entertaining.
If you're looking for great acting and story-telling, give this one a go!! 10 stars, actually, this is the ultimate Classic!