Cheesiness reaches its apex with Dhoom 2 - Bollywood's attempt at creating a believable action film. Dhoom 2 is tackiness amplified to epic proportions. The space allotted, regrettably, isn't sufficient enough for me to adequately lambaste this picture. Bollywood needs to understand, that merely mimicking Matrix style effects and a few of the stunts seen in the Mission Impossible trilogy, doesn't make their rendition of these action classics as engrossing as the original films were. The American and Chinese action films, which Bollywood is so desperately trying to emulate, win over their audiences because the acting is, at the very least, decent, and the stories are engaging for the adult mind.

The stunts, by the way, which by looking at the previews for Dhoom 2, is the movie's main selling point, are not anywhere as visually believable or artfully done as the ones done by the American films that Dhoom 2 tries to copy. The editing is so poor that one only sees the very beginning and tail end of a flip or a death defying jump. I gather that this is purposefully done to mask just how far Bollywood has to go before they can ever approach the action choreography and special effects wizardry of the Wackoski brothers, John Woo, or for that matter, an amateur film student in an American university.

Particularly laughable was a scene in which the two law enforcement protagonists of the film jump off their motorcycles and coast on their feet beside their bikes, while the bikes are careening down the tunnel. This is supposed to mimic the same stunt performed by Tom Cruise in Mission Impossible 2. What makes this so hilarious is that the entire scene is done in fast forward and in obscure lighting, which presumably is done so that you wouldn't see whatever mechanism was sliding under them to make them seem as if they were sliding on their own. Furthermore, the action performed in MI2 was done because the logic of the scene required it, since Tom Cruise was using his bike as cover, as his adversary was shooting at him from the other side. In this scene, from Dhoom2, there simply is no logic, because the bikes were moving straight forward into the oppositions hands, and thus jumping and sliding along the bike's side makes no sense.

Speaking of things that are illogical, Dhoom2`s plot, whatever little of it that there is, could have been written by a brain damaged dance choreographer, since it is inundated with flash, but bereft of substance.  Basically you have a charming and narcissistic villain (played by Roshan) who seeks to steal priceless treasures and selects the locations of his various heists so as to form the letter "A" on the global map, which, naturally, is the letter of his name "Aryan".  Yes, even the lowliest simpleton should be rolling his eyes at this. It would seem that Aryan is as self-absorbed with his own perceived greatness, in very much the same manner that the filmmakers seem to be fooled into thinking that they have created a grade A thriller. Both, trust me, are gross delusions.

Aryan is being pursued relentlessly by a police detective and his colleagues. Eventually a romantic relationship ensues between Roshan's character and Aishwarya Rai's character (an aspiring thief who cannot be taken seriously) through several brief interactions and embarrassingly teeny bopper style dialog (I swear if Rai kept using the word "like" in front of every statement and kept referring to herself in the third person I was going to "like" throw my shoe at the TV).

Speaking of dialog, a note to Bollywood movie producers: Don't have your law enforcement agents say idiotic things like "Aryan is the coolest criminal in the world" during police debriefing scenes. How absolutely asinine can you be? The criminal underworld and the police are supposed to be intensely antagonistic towards each other, not complementing each other like love struck school children. Granted there can be latent admiration, even among heroes and villains in a film, but the key here is that this admiration goes unstated.

Ultimately the film goes back and forth, with twists that are pulled out of thin air. Again Bollywood needs to understand that a plot twist is only successful in impressing adult minds when there is a sufficient background story that subtly leads up to the twist.  This film lacks both a back story and subtlety.

All of this culminates in acting that are more one dimensional than Saturday morning cartoon characters, a plot that seems created ad hoc so as to provide an excuse to perform the poorly executed stunts, and finally a climax that is so anticlimactic that one sits through the dance infested end credits roll with a dumbfounded look as if to ask oneself: "how did I sit through such cinematic garbage for so long?"

Sorry Bollywood, but if Dhoom2 is your submission for a good action film, then you need to stick to traditional song and dance number comedies and romances. Dhoom2 lacks originality - a thing that has eluded Bollywood ever since its inception. It is devoid of an engaging plot, or relatable characters. When one says they are Indian, there is much they can rightly be proud of.  Dhoom2 and the Indian movie industry that spawned it, should give those same Indians ample fodder to contemplate disavowing their heritage. Yes, the movie is just that bad!