First of all, I was very skeptical about how this film would turn out. In high school Spanish and Art classes, I learned a bit about Frida Kahlo, so I knew a litle bit of what she was like. However, this film has been one of the most interesting, somewhat controversial ones I have seen. Nominated for six Academy Awards, FRIDA is the biography of the famous Mexican painter, Frida Kahlo. 
Salma Hayek was exceptionally amazing in her Oscar-nominated title role! I haven't seen a whole lot of her work, but she truly nailed this performance down hard. Alfred Molina gave an awesome performance as Diego Rivera! (NOTE: If you think Alfred is great in this film, he is just as good in films like NOT WITHOUT MY DAUGHTER.) I give kudos to the awesome acting in this film!! The other things I loved about the film are the cinematography, the music, effects, and the art! The filmmakers have had recreated Frida's world as if it is happening now. It has given audiences a chance to really experience the magic of these things. Frida had a passion of all aspects of life, and the cast and crew were able to make it possible to show that same passion, especially in her paintings. The history and politics also brought in an interest for me, for it showed how the characters were able to share their ideas, cultures, etc. 
Frida lived in pain, emotionally and physically, dealt with intense infidelity caused by Diego, her husband, and had some scandelous affairs of her own. The reason for the four stars is this: TOO MUCH sexual content. Yes, Diego and Frida had endured a tumultuous marriage. Yes, Diego was extremely unfaithful to her, but they stuck together until her death. However, in my opinion, Hollywood really didn't have to get into very explicit details with the sex affairs, language, and nudity. 
But, despite all that, FRIDA is a film that really showed who she was, and what she did. She was a perseverent cripple; she was a revolutionary at heart; she is still considered one of the greatest artists ever known in the world. But most importantly, she was a very unique woman. If you like biopics, this is one you should at least rent. The special features are just as wonderful. If you fall in love with it, it will be a great addition to your DVD collection!