This film is really a breath of fresh air: action movies have not been a lot of fun lately but this modest and fast moving french adventure fills a void.  The plot is basically just an updated Escape from New York redone as a buddy picture but it's a fine enough framework for the stunts and there's even some nice social/political subtext thrown into the film for good measure.  Besson has had a hand lately in a lot of mediocre action pictures (like the Transporter films) but here his writing is very good and the director, Pierre Morel, handles things quite nicely, with spot-on editing and great framing, always catching the action from just the right angle and with the right distance.  The two leads, David Belle and Cyril Raffaelli, apparently former stuntmen, are both charismatic and distinctive, even when they are just acting.  Unlike too many heroes of today, you feel like they could actually lose a fight, so you feel a sense of drama when the fists start flying.  Belle is apparently one of the founders of parkour, which, if you didn't know, is a french sport of climbing and jumping around urban environments, probably inspired by Jackie Chan films, and which figures heavily in the action in this movie.  It is pretty nifty and different to watch, though I'm sure it will grow old soon enough from overexposure (and by the way, le Fils du Vent, another Besson produced parkour movie, is as terrible and lame as B13 is good: avoid it like the plague).  This film and Ong-Bak would make a nice double feature of foreign action movies with great fights and stunts.

One important point to note here: I saw this originally on a subtitled import (not the domestic release version) and strongly recommend against watching it dubbed if you have the choice.  I have seen a few minutes of the dub version and it is not that well done.  Whatever your feelings about reading subtitles in general, you should try watching it that way.  There's very little talking once the action scenes get underway, so it doesn't interfere much, and the french audio conveys what the actors are doing far better than a dub, even if you can't understand the exact words they are saying.  Trust me on this.