This is a classic Arnold movie, so if you don't like Arnold, you definitely won't like this one because there are two of him.  Of course, if you don't like Arnold, why are you here?  In any event, I love Arnold.  This movie provided most of the Arnoldlocity we have come to expect -- action, humor, fantastic special effects, etc.  Arnold plays the same role he always plays: All-American Austrian Guy.  He stands for everything we would like to think of ourselves as being, underneath all the layers of fat and tension that is contemporary culture.  
The special effects in this movie are smart and a lot of fun to watch.  The way the movie uses camera effects to conceal and then tell the story is very cool.  And the movie (naturally) sets up its own sequel, but I won't tell you how.  The biggest reservation I have is that it didn't really stress me out as much, as in T2.  There's a preposterous chase scene at the beginning, for example, that, for all its attempt at glory, just fails to engage me with that panic and wonder that chase scenes are supposed to generate.  I think this because it is so over the top; you can practically count how many red Caddilacs they had to destroy to make it.  Of course it may be that chase scenes reached their climax way back in the 70s with the greatest of all time in The French Connection.  But it's not so long that I ended up tapping my fingers.  Also the ending is mildly sluggish and not as cool and nailbitingly relentless as the ending to T2 or T1 for that matter, but what is? Nevertheless, these are small qualms because this movie is one big shiny bag of eye candy from start to finish, and the pace is quick, so I never had to worry too much about one thing because I was already way on to the next thing.  (Only action movie fans will know what I mean here.)
The DVD is pretty good, though it doesn't have a lot of bells and whistles.  The digital surround sound is excellent and the picture is crisp and widescreen big.  Over all, highly recommended for Arnoldites.