This film really had me at sixes and sevens as to how to review it.  On the one hand, I study medieval history.  On that standard the film would rate zero stars.  On the other hand, this is truly fine cinema.  So I will go with the latter over the former.
Let's start with the bad.  This film has nothing to do with history.  When I say "nothing" I mean that there are some correct names but that is about it.  William Wallace was the son of a Lowland knight.  He never besieged York, much less took it.  The princess the film suggests he had an affair with was about 8 years old at the time of Wallace's death.  His death was not a public ceremony and execution.  There were no flaming bogs.  No one painted their faces blue -- PERIOD!  Most of the clothing styles shown are from a couple hundred years later.  Robert the Bruce never fought with the English.  I could keep going.  The point here is that you have to assume that the film takes place in a parallel dimension where there happens to be a country called Scotland, there happens to be another country called England, there happens to be a man named William Wallace and he fights against the country of England.  
In other words, don't try to take this for reality in the slightest.
Conversely, this is a whopping great bit of cinematic grandeur!
Gibson brings real conviction to his role.  So does Patrick McGoohan (there is an enemy truly worthy of loathing!).  One of the marvelous touches of this film is that every time you are back in Scotland you see sweeping panoramas of the land -- the feeling is a true love of country.  When the action switches back to the English, you are inside of castles or rancid small towns.  Gibson/Wallace if fighting for a land; Edward/McGoohan is fighting for power.  Even the cinematography makes this obvious.
The battle scenes are gruesome, gutwrenching, and truly awe-inspiring.  No one just clutches his chest and dies here -- be forewarned, the battle scenes were only one-upped in their gruesome reality by "Saving Private Ryan".  These are not scenes for the squeamish.  On the other hand even this pounds home the notion that the Scots are fighting FOR something -- under-equipped, undermanned, they are willing to fight toe-to-toe with their enemy as long as their are led by someone with conviction.  Gibson's Wallace gives that conviction.  "Where are you going?"  "I'm going to start a war."
This is a film that drags you in and keeps you hooked.  You care about the good guys.  You care about the bad guys, too, but in a very different way ("Hmmm, if I could do something vicious to Edward I, what would I do?").  This is a film of high drama and a few other the top performances (like that mad little Irishman).  If you like sweeping action films like "Lawrence of Arabia", this film will draw you in.  History it is not; grand cinema it is.