I believe in reviews that should tell fellow amazon.com buyer if a product is good.  This movie isn't bad, but it has limits.

This movie was made in 1977 and was the last major WWII movie until Saving Private Ryan, a movie that is both better and a lot worse.

What is good about A Bridge Too Far?  The cast is sterling!  You get Dirk Bogarde, James Caan, Michael Caine, Sean Connery, Edward Fox, Elliot Gould, Gene Hackman. Anthony Hopkins, Hardy Kruger, Laurence Olivier, Ryan O'Neil, Robert Redford, Maximillian Schell, Liv Ullmann, and John Ratzenberger.  John Ratzenberger - who later on plays "Cliff" on Cheers - portrays a lieutenant under Robert Redford; it's amazing to see the change in people from movies of old.

Now, what is bad about A Bridge Too Far?  Well the producers of the movie could not get any German tanks, unlike the dozens of Shermans and M-3 half-tracks used in the film.  So the producers get one, count it - one - West German Army Leopard II prototype tank and used it as a Panzer.  At that time in Europe there were thousands of M60A1 tanks that could have been modified to resemble King Tiger tanks.  The Leopard II looks nothing like a WWII tank.  I guess its better than seeing an M-47 or M-48 with a cross painted on it.  However, if you enjoy military hardware then you really will not like the German armor because there isn't any.

There is a fair amount of German armored cars, such as the ubiquitous Sdkfz 223.  Most of these vehicles are merely British armored cars in drag.  But this was the beginning of the major effort to make military vehicles look like German vehicles.  These converted vehicles are used in the best scene in the movie, the attack on the British troops holding the bridge at Arnhem.  That part of the movie is worth two stars out of four.

One part of the movie I hated was showing the 101st Airborne.  Many military buffs will know what the 101st did at operation Market Garden.  There is a very weak part in the movie where a nervous captain confides to his sergeant, played by James Caan, that he is afraid of dying.  Then you read the books "Band of Brothers", the 101st Airborne series of books by Don Burgette, and "Biggest Brother, the life of Major Dick Winters" then you find that part of the movie is pretty much sheer bulk.  If you think for a second that Lieutenant Spears, Captain Winters, or Captain Heileiger would have drank a fifth of whiskey in front of a NCO then you're nuts.  Captain Nixon would have drank a fifth, but he was on the 506th Staff and never was around the enlisted men.  Anyway, the commander of the 506th was Colonel Sink.  Sink ran a pretty tight ship, would have fired a bad officer, and Elliot Gould does a poor job playing an airborne commander.  Colonel Sink was the guy who had the bridge in Holland blown up in front of him.

The movie uses quite a few old aircraft.  The close support aircraft are old T-6 trainers dressed up to look like P-47s of WWII.  This was done in the old days before computer digital effects.  I would rather look at a real aircraft dressed up to resemble another aircraft.  Digital effects still look a little fake.

The movie does not really communicate the hornet's nest XXXth Corps plows into going on the advance towards Arnhem.  For some reason the producer of the movies didn't show the effects of the German Panzerfaust, a rocket launcher that was used by the Russians for the basis of the RPG that is used by every terrorist group in the modern world.  The excellent German tanks and anti-tank guns did not knock out the majority of allied armor.  It was German soldiers shooting Panzerfausts at tanks that destroyed the majority of armor lost by the allied armor.

Now the movies music score is from the 1970s.  This is the days of the rich orchestra music and the theme of the movie will stay in your heads for days.  The scenery of the movie is breath taking.  You can tell the movie makers really got their money's worth from this movie.

Get this movie on discount and it goes pretty well in your video library.  It's a fairly good movie. You see a lot old movie stars, beautiful European countryside, and some great battles.  Yes, the movie has problems, like the fiction on the 101st airborne.  But it's not bad.