For those who enjoy documentaries about revolutionary leaders such as Fidel Castro, Mandela or Dessalines and Aristide, this is a must see. Idi Amin was indeed the greatest of great revolutionary leaders of our time! A great deal of commentators here that despise him in this film and in general are more than likely simply uninformed, under-informed or simply racist because if you have bought even a few of the THOUSANDS of dvd's that explain the recent US president(s) administration's track record you would quickly realize that no tyrant, dictator or administration on Earth has caused more trouble, murders and wars than the US's presidents, administrations, secret societies and federally employed drug-smugglers... and also maybe people in the west dont like Idi Amin because Idi Amin was known as the "Conqueror of the British empire in Uganda" or maybe because he didnt hesitate to kick America out of Uganda or maybe because he was the chairman of the organization of African Unity. Who knows.. Be that as it may Idi Amin remains one of the most enigmatic and misunderstood leaders to date, i assume thats because the social consciousness of the masses is being/has been dumbed down to a level where we can not fathom a man fighting to do things his way and not the way foriegn nations want him to do it... especially Corrupt and putrid foreign nations whom feed off the weaker of their fellow man with no remorse. Some say General Amin's methods were brutal, but most countries do have legal state sanctioned executions like Uganda, the US, for example, has legal executions and legal torture (research guatanomo bay and abu ghraib if thats new to you).Idi Amin was an example to many, he was proof you do not have to cooperate with evil forces to maintain a society, as Uganda during his reign was not poor in the least. The Great Idi Amin Dada's legacy will live on in the hearts and minds of many forever, because the greatest thing about General Amin, and the thing the people who fear and despise him hate the most...is that he died happy and rich never respecting or bowing down to the evil powers that wanted him to cooperate with their corrupt devilry..and he has over 40 children to continue his mighty bloodline whom some still live by the ancient and grandoise Nile river in Uganda. Idi Amin Dada had the blood of the ancient pyramid builders and was known as "His Excellency, President for Life, Field Marshal Al Hadji Doctor, Lord of All the Beasts of the Earth and Fishes of the Seas and Conqueror of the British Empire in Africa in General and Uganda in Particular" and in his day that's exactly what he was. LONG LIVE IDI AMIN!!!  and free Aristide.