Wow. Now, now, Mr. (totally anonymous) Aussie Reviewer, let's not forget "Razorback" now. Every country produces its share of... strange movies. This is not an issue of the U.S. vs. France. This movie is not *perfect* and it's got nothing to do with subtitles. Nobody, not even someone cranking out his anti-American sentiments from the safety of his mom's basement, can decide for someone else what perfection is. BTW, run a spellcheck program.

 The problem with this movie is not that it did anything better than American filmmakers. In fact, it's as unlrealistic as any Hollywood schlock I've ever seen, in so many ways.

 For one, I defy you to show me evidence of a Native American at that time who, never having been outside of North America until his trip to France, would have been so schooled in ASIAN MARTIAL ARTS. That's only one of the odd departures from reality you have to take when you watch this movie. I won't pretend to be an expert in Native American spirituality or traditions, so I'll leave that part of the movie to someone else.

 I'm not entirely convinced by the level of technology that was suggested here in order to produce that armor for the wolf/beast/whatever you want to call it. Can you say "Wild, Wild West"?

 Of course, like any Hollywood movie, the hero here is suddenly able to do all by his lonesome exactly what his "blood brother" had been unable to accomplish. Gee, that's a novel idea.

 The "romance" was, just like a Hollywood film, totally irrelevant, just there to allow for nudity. Why, those revolutionary French filmmakers.

 The fact is, this movie is no better and no worse than anything Hollywood has produced along the same lines, but they mashed together so many genres it's like they couldn't decide what kind of movie they wanted to make. My favorite review ever, of this movie, is over at Netflix. One guy said, and I hope he doesn't mind me quoting him here, "This is the best werewolf karate, conspiracy theory, period romance, bosom heaving, anti-church, anti-royalist, anti-freemason, costume epic, psycho drama set in both pre-revolution and revolutionary France that you will ever see. Absolutely the best of the genre." I love that, because it sums up this movie nicely.

 All the silliness of this movie aside, I enjoyed it, if for no other reason, the sight of Mark Dacascos running through the woods in a loincloth. That alone is worth the price of admission.