Being an anime fan and having owned only two anime DVDs, I decided to extend my collection, and ended up purchasing this DVD from amazon.com.  I had watched and enjoyed the entire Ah My Goddess series at my University's anime club, so when I learned it had a movie, I just had to check it out.
My reaction . . .
Wow.  I agree with the other reviewers, this is a great anime movie -- one of the best, in my opinion.  The storyline wonderfully intertwines romance, drama, action, and comedy.  The animation is gorgeous -- even the obligatory CGI sequences used in all modern anime movies blends in very well here.  And the movie actually lasts much longer than one-hour, a place where few anime movies dare to tread!
But the DVD itself is what really makes this a must-buy.  If this was released by a major Hollywood studio, it would be called a "Collector's Edition."  Two things that Amazon surprisingly does not advertise is that the DVD comes in a stunning holographic cardboard sleeve (similar to the Moulin Rouge one) and also includes a limited-edition pencil board -- which I still don't know what is used for. :)  And I love how the plastic keepcase is transparent, a refreshing change from all the black cases I own.
The widescreen video transfer is flawless without artifacts.  As for audio, the Dolby 5.1 track is the best I've heard in a long time, with every channel guaranteed to be utilized during the battle scenes!  Of course, for anime purists like myself, it's great to have the original Japanese 5.1 track as an alternative to the English one.
The menus are very attractive, with a combination of vivid pictures, animation, and sound and music.  Plus, the transitions from one menu to another are well-done, yet still fast enough so as not to be annoying.  Finally, the extras are impressive: an art gallery, five Japanese trailers, and the short but hillarious Episode 1 of the upcoming "Mini-Goddess" series.  Perfect Blue is the only anime DVD I've seen that surpasses this in extras -- but that one didn't come with a pencil board! :)
The only problems one might have with the movie is the storyline.  The ending does leave several loose ends.  And if you haven't seen the series, you may find the story confusing at first (although the DVD insert does provide some information on the main characters).  Finally, if you haven't enjoyed magical girl anime in the past (Sailor Moon, Card Captors, etc.) and go for more serious fare, this might not be for you.  Evangelion it ain't.
Otherwise, with beautiful packaging, an engaging story, bright animation, superb video and audio, many extras, and a reasonable pricetag, the Ah My Goddess movie is an impressive DVD that'll make the perfect addition to any anime fan's collection.  
Oh, and don't forget the pencil board!