The Umbrella Corporation-a global leader in cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, and medical hardware, yet they somehow find the time to dabble in genetic engineering and bio-weaponry. Their latest invention, the T-Virus, promises to reanimate dead bodies. When a vile of this virus is released within Umbrella's underground laboratory known as the Hive, they find out just how potent that concoction is.

The radiant Milla Jovovich takes on the role of Alice, a woman who wakes up on a shower floor, completely unaware how she got there. We follow Alice as she attempts to piece together what is going on. Of course, she has to splatter some undead brains all over the place in search of the truth.

The atmosphere in this movie is spot on. Narrow corridors and flickering florescent bulbs creates an eerie environment reminiscent of the video game series. They also borrowed the extreme high and low angle camera angles from the games. This makes for a tense experience as our heroes move through the halls of the Hive, unsure of what might be around the corner-and have little time or space to react when they find out.

The picture and audio quality is superb. The transfer is leaps and bounds better than the DVD and audio begs for a nice surround sound system. This Blu is easily the best version of the film to date.

The special features are the standard fare of behind the scenes featurettes and commentaries. The commentaries where all the meat of the special features is at. You get two full length commentaries-one with the cast and one with the filmmakers. The cast commentary is entertaining, but not very informative. Milla does the bulk of the talking which some people will love while other will turn it off early on. The filmmakers commentary is very insightful, and the track that I believe most people will prefer. You also get an alternate ending and a Slipknot music video. They are about as interesting as they sound which will be good or bad depending on who you are.

If you are a Zombie fan, you will love this movie. Even more so if you are fan of the video games. However, Resident Evil will not change the minds of those who are turned off by the living dead. The Blu-ray version is definitely worth the upgrade if you are sitting on the fence, DVD in hand.

Tech Specs
Video: 1080p, 1.85:1
Audio: English, Italian Dolby TrueHD 5.1, French, Spanish, Portuguese Dolby Digital 5.1
Subtitles: English, English SDH, Spanish, Portuguese, French, Italian