Released in 1971 to luke warm reviews, "Dirty Harry" is without question one of the best urban police action films ever made, and is a  classic piece of American Cinema that's as relevant today as it was  then.
Beautifully filmed on location in San Francisco by Bruce Surtees,  director Don Siegel's film captures the pulse and fears of the American  public in a time of great social upheaval. The movie addresses those fears  in a "law enforcement shackled by Miranda" theme, and draws the  main characters in broad uncompromising strokes.
Enter Inspector Harry  Callahan of the San Francisco Police Department. Known as "Dirty  Harry" within the bureau, Callahan works homicide and is regarded as a  straight ahead, no nonsense investigator with a reputation for solving  cases. Callahan is not politically correct and doesn't care for those who  engage in its' posturing, which is the subtext and ignition point for the  tension in this film.
As the movie opens, Callahan is investigating the  murder of a woman who is shot while taking a dip in a rooftop swimming  pool. The crime occurs in the downtown area, and Callahan theorizes the  murder was probably committed by a rifleman from an adjacent rooftop at  some distance. The theory pays off when Callahan checks a neighboring high  rise to find spent rifle cartridge casings. Near the casings a note is  found from a serial killer named Scorpio, who threatens to shoot others in  sniper attacks throughout the city should the Mayor's office fail to pay  the ransom demand.  
This information is shared with the Mayor (played  by John Vernon) who unhesitatingly agrees to pay the ransom to avoid a  political firestorm of criticism should the demand ever become public  knowledge. This only serves to further incense Callahan, who spends the  rest of the film hunting for Scorpio as he battles internal pressure from  the department as much as the danger on the street. 
Sterling  performances are handed in by Eastwood, Andrew Robinson as Scorpio, and  Reni Santoni as Chico , a young idealistic officer newly assigned as  Callahan's partner. The movie is also aided by an excellent musical score  by Lalo Schifrin. The soundtrack is at times slow and ethereal, then  accelerates, beautifully accentuating action sequences.
Reviews of this  film in the early seventies (remember Pauline Kael?) were often wordy,  unfair, and overly simplistic, concentrating on Callahan's worst  personality traits and wringing them for all the sensationalistic print  they were worth. But the film succeeds on several levels built around  Eastwood's great performance as a frustrated cop who wants to put a  murderer away. 
DVD version includes a theatrical trailer that deserves  Kael-like criticism (you'll see what I mean). Strong Buy.