After their first year of college, the gang gets back together to relax and have some fun. After a party at Stiflers, that almost exactly resembles the one from the first movie, the gang decides to take their adventures to a beach house and spend the summer there.  While they are trying to find jobs and throw beach parties, the boys have some of their own dilemmas at hand they need to deal with. Jim finds out that Nadia is back in the states after she got booted from them after their internet debacle. Jim has only had sex one and half times since that incident though. So to try and get himself prepared for Nadia, he takes on the aid of Michelle, the band geek that rocked his world from a year ago. As she begins to teach him the ways of sexual behavior, they themselves begin to realize that maybe they are more than they think they are to one another. Kevin, after splitting from Vicky, has to get over his feeling for her once she shows up at the house to have fun. Because for her, they are just friends, which is why she now has a new boy in her life. Oz has to deal with a long distance relationship with Heather since she went away for the summer. It doesn't help though that his best friend Stifler is constantly trying to get him to have sex with any girl within a 3 yard radius of them. Speaking of Stifler, he's still coping with the fact that Finch had sex with his mom last year. And Finch is having withdrawals from not being with Stifler's mom.

For the longest time I thought that part 1 was the better of these 2. I seriously think I've been wrong this whole time. After watching these back to back last night, I can whole heartedly tell you I laughed a lot more with part 2. The jokes are better and even raunchier. The embarrassments Jim go through are hilarious (good god the super glue scene). The girls are hotter. And Stifle maybe just a tad over the top, but is still a lot better in part 2. When he grabs that dildo and shakes it while running through that house, I could not stop laughing. And when he says he forgot where he found it cause of all the excitement from when he found it was just hilarious. The lesbian scene was just laugh out loud funny also.

In the end, I would definitely own this. Just remember though, if you aren't into raunchy and crude comedy, just stay away.

P.S. - There is no way any single straight man would have walked out of that light house without having done something with Nadia. Just no way.