When i first came to Australia some 15 years ago i watched this on tv and back then BloodSport was a kickass movie for western standard anyway... story is simple and straight forward a westerner gets trained by japanese master and enters a tournment to honor his dying master and wins becomes the champion!!!

The good:

Whats good about the film is the originality of fighters all around the world... i know enter the dragon did this first but its exploration is limited only a few fighters enter the tournament but here bloodsport has given more fighters eg, japanese sumo, african monkey style(which seem more chinese), thai kick boxing, brazilian street boxing, and judo, and chinese martial arts all pour into one ring.... what a mix!!! :)

I have reason to think the most popular arcade game "STREET FIGHTER 2" has had its influence from this film but i could be wrong...

The fighting scenes are good for the west this is as good as it gets and lots of blood helps! lucky van dan's basic kicking skill is very good and he's able to pull off all the moves easily and making it look very convincings good... other good bits are scenes of hong kong and its people, the guide for frank and his friend is great! he's line of " we love asian people here cos we are GOOD looking!!" is fantastic really is...

script is well written with lots of funny lines!!

story is ok good enough for a martial arts film... The acting is good though the younger frank seems a bit on the slow side but hey he's a nerdy kids so he can be dumb if he wants to...

The BAD:

there are many irregulars in the film what i mean is he's master looks japanese but the wife looks philippino. The chart of human anatomy on which his master teaches to frank is clearly in chinese and not some acient japanese anatomy chart. Frank's freind the wrestler seem to be a first timer at kumatai but he seem to have seen the korean champion chong li fought in the last kumatai... what's also bad i think is the typical sterotyping of asian and ethnic fighters in the movie. The middle-eastern fighter with a gold tooth, the black african fighter who taunts frank and chong li(korean champ) are all made out to be evil people and dishonourable fighters... this movie has that good old heroic amerian thing here which i do not like... its so typical of amerian films to make other people look bad and evil to glorify themselves and thats is totally wrong!!!

so its ok for frank's friend to smash other fighters face in and not ok for other fighters to hurt him? no no no... it isn't right. but again i understand this is an american film where amerian is the heroe...

The UGLY:

well after having watched the film i was interested to find out about the real FRANK DUX and his amazing records... so i did a bit of research online and to my surprise and utter atonishment it seem this film is a big fat FAKE!!!!!!!!! its claim for based on real life story just flys out the door... this real frank dux is a liar and he's very good at making up stories... he's records and involvment in kumatai is all a figment of his imagination, apparently he's trophies are brought from some maker not too far from his home.. and he has never left American or join in some fights and the whole thing is made up... yes he's record of winning 56 consecutive fight in one tournament is a total bull!!! think for yourself if he defeated 56 fighters just by himself how many fighters do you think is involved atleast 200 to 300 and the tournament went on for only 3 days???? hmmmmm and he's record knock out are totally unbelievable they must have measured him with a speedo gun when he knock out the other guy in 0.21 sec wow less than 1 sec !! must be a invisible punch... anyway i will stop bagging the real frank i guess the facts are never pretty... whats disappointing is the fact this film can actually get made claiming on real life but really total rubbish...

overall... just thinking and watching this movie on its own merits its a good film with many good moments ...

i will give this movie ***** 4 / 5 *****

Kumatai ! Kumatai ! Kumatai !