Never Let Me Go is director Mark Romanek's screen adaptation of <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0307740994">Kazuo Ishiguro's 2005 acclaimed novel</a> of the same name. The film is buoyed up by a mostly superb cast, a haunting score by Rachel Portman, and an Alex Garland script that is largely faithful to the source novel. Despite widespread critical and audience disagreement over the true themes of the film, the generally positive reception is a testimony to its worth.

"Haunting" is the adjective most often used to describe the film, for good reason. Although the better-known Keira Knightley received top billing during the film's limited and unsuccessful 2010 theater run, it is Carey Mulligan as Kathy H. who owns the bulk of the screen time, and she delivers a sterling performance. If there is a weak link at all in the cast, it is probably Knightley, playing Ruth. Andrew Garfield as Tommy completes the triangle, and his strong turn ably complements Mulligan's.

The rather thin plot of the film has been described in detail elsewhere. Remarkably, almost no two people, even among the cast and crew, seem to fully agree on what the film is actually about. Love, mortality, humanity, and many other explanations have all been offered. I wouldn't presume to say anyone else's interpretation of the work's theme is wrong, but additional insight into what the creators were trying to say may be gained by viewing the film as an allegory rather than a straightforward (and thus largely pointless) cautionary tale about cloning people and stealing their organs.

Although allegory is a form of storytelling that has long been out of literary high fashion, there is still, in dystopian fiction in particular, a strong tradition of using allegory. <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0452284236">Nineteen Eighty-Four</a> was really about 1948. In its day <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0060850523">Brave New World</a> was about a lot more than just sex. So it is incorrect to see Romanek, Garland, and Ishiguro as just stalely following in Larry Niven's footsteps 40 years after that science fiction author penned stories about kidnapping victims for their organs. Never Let Me Go isn't about clones or organ transplantations. Not specifically or solely, at any rate. It is about any group of persons, those society sees as non-persons, who are bereft of a voice to rail against the use others would make of them.

The film's clones represent any class of individuals who are dehumanized. Those forced into sexual slavery. Political prisoners in totalitarian countries (some of whose organs are harvested against their will; this much at least is not science fiction). Jews and Gypsies in concentration camps. The mentally handicapped. Children - including unborn ones. The aged and enfeebled. Slaves, historically and today.

Because the film's young, able-bodied protagonists would be capable of fighting back or attempting to flee, many observers have expressed frustration at the lack of any organized resistance to the organ-harvesting scheme. But once you see Kathy and her fellow clones an analogues of political prisoners, sex slaves, concentration camp detainees, warehoused nursing home patients, and so on, then that objection disappears. Kathy could fight or flee, but the type of powerless, impersonalized victim whom the character really represents usually cannot.

Though the allegory may seem heavy-handed once it is recognized as allegory at all, the film's creators have deliberately not simply drawn a parallel between their clones and any one group of those who have been unpersoned throughout history. Kathy, Tommy, and Ruth stand for anyone whose humanity, though obvious to us, has been denied by society at large.

That is the backdrop against which the film's performances take place. Because Never Let Me Go is about the dehumanization of the individual by society and the state - even though a whole class of such individuals may be in question - the focus is almost exclusively on Kathy and her two friends, plus a very small number of other people. There will be no massed battle here; it is not about setting one grandiose vision against another. It is about rejecting the interpretation of humanity as a collection of movements rather than as a (large) set of distinct individuals.

On this level, the film works superbly. Though intelligent, Kathy and the other clones cling desperately to what is obvious to the audience is the falsest of false hopes - because they have no other hope. Within the film, its title refers to a song of that name which becomes very important to Kathy in her adolescence. The characters experience nostalgia for a youth they never really had, even when young. They desperately try to cram experiences into their limited days. And they cling - and beg to be clung to, as in the song - to hope, love, and life.

It is a shame that distributors didn't trust American tastes more to have allowed this film a larger release. Hopefully, Never Let Me Go will enjoy a long life through DVD and other media, as its message is not that of an alternate 1970s in which cloning and organ harvesting are common, but a timeless one.