The film, "Pandemonium" (2000) is about the deterioration of the friendship between the British poets Samuel Taylor Coleridge (played by Linus Roache) and William Wordsworth (played by John Hannah). It is one of those beautifully done British productions where moody landscapes, historical buildings, and period-accurate costumes and sets combined to show a realistic view, warts and all, of what life was like at the time (1795 - 1815). I must admit  that I do not know enough about the lives of either poet to speak to the biographical accuracy of the film; no doubt, creative liberties were taken, as is typically the case with biopics.  I was also confused and mystified by the film maker's intercutting into several scenes in the film a shot of a partly cloudy sky anachronistically streaked with the contrail of a roaring jet. ???

Although I felt the film was a little overheated and claustrophobic in places, and despite Linus Roache's tendency to flop about and chew up the scenery while portraying Coleridge in the throes of his opium induced visions, I liked the film overall.  I especially liked the scene which purports to show how Coleridge was inspired to write "Frost at Midnight" and the scene that has Wordsworth and his sister Dorothy traipsing about through the countryside so that Nature can incite Wordsworth to commit poetry.  As Wordsworth crests a hill, he declaims, "I wandered lonely as a cow. . ." to which his sister quietly replies, "`Cloud' would be a better choice, William." (By this point, Wordsworth is becoming rather  pretentious and full of himself, and this is a slightly snide reference to what is perhaps his most famous poem.)

In the opening scene of the film, Coleridge arrives at a gathering to which he has been invited but was not expected to attend.  The purpose of the gathering is to celebrate Wordsworth's presumed nomination to Poet Laureate -- they are expecting a royal messenger to arrive shortly with his letter of appointment.  Coleridge is ushered in and proceeds to crash about like a bull in a china shop.  Though claiming to be his friend, Wordsworth is plainly embarrassed by the obvious physical and mental toll laudanum (opium) addiction has taken on Coleridge.  The story of how their once close friendship unraveled is told as a long succession of flashbacks that eventually returns full circle to this same party.  In the final scene, the recitation of "Kubla Khan" is begun by Dorothy, continued by Coleridge, and finished by the same voice over that has recited the other Coleridge poems that were referenced in other scenes.

As I said, I liked the film overall, but it gave me a serious earworm.  Usually when I get an earworm,  it's from some piece of music, but this time it was the third and fourth lines of "Kubla Khan" that kept rumbling around in my mind,

"Where Alph, the sacred river, ran
Through caverns measureless to man"

If Coleridge's own description of the circumstances surrounding "Kubla Khan's" creation are accurate, when he was on a roll, the man could crank out some seriously hot stuff -- and with a quill pen, no less!