At the end of the twentieth century the Catholic bishops of England and Wales reduced his obligatory feast to an optional memorial. In the sixteenth century the Protestant reformers destroyed his shrine, desecrated his remains, defaced his image wherever they found it, forbad devotion to him and expunged his name from the missals. And in the twelfth century the barons of King Henry II took care, by means of the sword, to rid their sovereign of so troublesome an English priest, indeed Archbishop, as Thomas Becket.

What is it about this man that continued to provoke such ire; that challenged his contemporaries and his subsequent countrymen for centuries? Was he arrogant, single minded, obstinate, full of pride? Is he a hero, a saint, or a fool?

In 1964 a full length feature film of Hall Wallis' `Becket' appeared starring Richard Burton and Peter O'Toole, with a supporting cast of greats including John Gielgud. As a film it had its day and I remember tasting it all too briefly on television as a boy. It never made a great impact in the age of video tapes. But advances in technology have enabled its recent release on DVD affording widespread and affordable popular release to a classic study of a pivotal character in English and ecclesiastical history.

"What if Thomas Becket should discover his honour?" the profligate, expedient Becket (Burton) asks rhetorically early in the film. On this question alone everything hangs. For, of course, Becket does discover honour: as the stooge Archbishop of Canterbury interposed by Henry II (O'Toole) he discovers the honour of the love of God. All other loves and loyalties  take second place, much to the incomprehension of his friends, enemies and coreligionists. Yet Becket heroically accepts death of the body rather than the suicide of compromise others would have had him embrace.

That Becket's dilemma and ultimate witness, as portrayed in this classic of the cinema, is available to us again in the twenty-first century by virtue of modern technology is very good indeed for it raises questions that both modern and medieval men ignore to their peril.

Perhaps, though, one should hasten to secure a copy of the DVD, for who knows when or how the next potentate will move to attempt to silence his voice?