Au Revoir les Enfants is a movie made in memory of one of the most inhumane periods this world has ever seen, the Holocaust.  A group of French boys attend p&egrave;re Jean's school in Vichy France.  Called the Petit College d' Avon, this school keeps the boys safe from the harsh environment of persecution that the Nazi occupied territories are experiencing.  One of the students, Julien Quentin, realizes that there won't be another January 17, 1944, and he feels like no one else thinks about death.  The irony of this statement lies in that he is saying this to a Jewish boy, whose mother is in a concentration camp somewhere, and his father was missing a long time ago.  He, Jean Kippelstein, a.k.a. Jean Bonnet, lives in the perpetual fear of being discovered by the German supporting Vichy government or the German soldiers who are frequently patrolling areas in the region.  Everyday, there is a possibility that the German soldiers will come into the school and take away suspected boys.  Jean has to hide his name, his religion, his beliefs, and his identity constantly, just to survive.

 This movie is not a dry, impersonal documentary mourning the tragedy of the numerous people persecuted during the holocaust, but a riveting account of the raw emotions felt by the people of this period.  "Cruelty is pushed to its extreme horror," and people are being treated in an inhuman way, being publicly insulted, emotionally humiliated and every human right is violated.  One instance of this is when the soldier asks Julien to pull his pants down to check whether he has been circumcised, and particularly to a young boy, this is extremely humiliating.  However, even in these dark periods, the light of "benevolence [is] carried to its highest degree of nobility and beauty."  P&egrave;re Jean is exemplary in this respect.  He protects Jewish people in his church, even though he knows that this is treason, and that he could be persecuted for this noble crime.  He fires Joseph, the aid, for his exchanges with the students, but his accomplices were not expelled.  I believe that this is wise of P&egrave;re Jean, because if the rich and influential students leave the school, there will be absolutely nothing to prevent the government from sifting through the school for potential "enemies to the state."  In his sermons, he almost openly sympathizes with the Jewish people, and takes a great risk.  He preaches about the Christian need for charity, and generosity, especially in such dire circumstances.  P&egrave;re Jean's commitment to the Jewish students is so concrete he protects them until he is persecuted himself for protecting them.  This displays a great strength of moral fiber, and an unbreakable sense of compassion, irrelevant of religion or gender, or any other segregation.

 Guilt is another emotion that is brought out in its many dull hues during the course of the movie.  Joseph's guilt in letting the boys and P&egrave;re Jean be persecuted is explored.  Julien's guilt in the same case is also shown when Joseph says if he had not been fired for trading with him, he would not have had to sell the boys' lives to the Germans.  This guilt hurts the young Julien, who shares a "wary and prickly'" relationship with Jean.  They are friends, in a sensitive and curios manner peculiar to boys their age.  Julien is drawn to the strange new boy, is jealous of his abilities, and mystified by his foreign religious beliefs.  Jean gladly accepts any escape from the frequent taunting of his malicious classmates.  They grow closer over youthful male sessions of forbidden and shadowy tales from distant Arabia, and energetic pieces on the piano, and stealing treats from the kitchen.  In the end, Julien fells responsible for sending his friend away to an unknown but certain death.

 Au Revoir les Enfants manages to capture the real emotions experienced by people of Vichy France during the Holocaust on a level that has never been achieved before.  The movie leaves the viewer with a strange sense of emotion at the characters and their individual lives.