Since it OBVIOUSLY wasn't directed by Spielberg, credits or no. This film was everything the first Indy movie claimed to be and wasn't: A rollicking, enjoyable, edge-of-your-seat matinee movie with thrill-a-minute action, funny situations and good character interplay. 
This is a prequel to "Raiders" which finds Indy wearing his glasses for only about five minutes of the story. It starts OUT as an adventure, rather than leads up to one. 
The film opens in a Chinese lounge where Indy is to meet up with a wealthy Chinese merchant after completing an assignment for him to obtain the remains of the first emperor of the Manchu dynasty. Indy enters the movie very James Bond-like, coming down a sprial staircase to the table where the merchant, Lao Che, has just finished watching a floor show by Willie, played by Spielberg's present golddigger wife, Kate Capshaw, and her girls. 
The double cross starts almost immeidately as Lao Che tries to poison Indy to keep from paying him with a VERY large diamond for his troubles. Indy gets desperate, as it's revealed that Lao Che ALSO possesses the ANTIDOTE for the poison, to be given when he turns over the diamond. To try to force Lao Che to give up the antidote, Jones does something very unheroic by threatening to disembowel Willie if he doesn't turn it over, holding an olive fork to her side.
What follows is pure chaos as Lao Che reveals that his sons have a bead on him, assuring Indy's cooperation. HOWEVER, Indy knew his client well enough to be prepared with his OWN backup gunsel, disguised as a waiter in the club. Immediately after this, somebody pops a champagne cork, causing some antsy soul to fire a gun, killing Indy's friend, etc., etc. until the room is awash in fistfights and bullets. Indy takes Willie, escapes from the club behind a rolling gong he cuts down to protect them from the gunplay, leaps out the window of the club "Obi Wan", and the adventure in under way in earnest, as Indy's "tween" Korean sidekick, Short Round, is introduced as the driver of his getaway car. 
The three end up making tracks out of China, (or is it Hong Kong?) via a plane, which, ironically enough, is OWNED by Lao Che, unbeknownst to Indy and his friends.
To give away more will blunt your enjoyment of this movie, which indeed takes you on a ride from the very start. It's obvious that Lucas directed this film in pretty much the same way Spielberg directed/influenced "Poltergeist" and "Young Sherlock Holmes" (the latter a near DOUBLE to IJATTOD in plotline and main character allotment.) Indy is, in fact, a Lucas creation, in collaboration with Philip Kauffman, and BOTH of these guys can direct rings around Spielberg!
The clues are obvious: just like Star wars, "Temple of Doom" has a taller, older hero, a younger hero, a spunky love interest that initially HATES the older hero then grows fond of him, with all of them threatened by a VERY evil cult/organization in a quasi-mystical setting. Spielberg xeroxed this formula in "Young Sherlock Holmes", which he produced, and which Barry Levinson is credited with directing. 
Just remember, if, like me, you CRINGE at the thought of any movie directed by Steven Spielbucks, that in THIS movie, he was little more than the hand puppet Lucas used to tell the actors where to stand. ILM pretty much handled the rest of the film...