I'm a young film student and study alot of movies, so most find it hard to believe that Ghostbusters is my favorite movie.  Most people think of  Ghostbusters a silly kids movie before they even sit down and watch it.  This is why Ghostbusters isn't given the credit it deserves.  I hope that I  can show you why this movie is comparable to Citizen Kane.  When I was a  kid this was my favorite movie, but I never really understood the movie for  what it was.  As I grew up, I had grown apart from the movie.  My favorite  was Mr.Smith goes to Washington.  My tastes started to become that of a  snoby film critic,who's head is so far up their own a@! that they totaly  miss the point of what a movie should be.  Not some over the top artsy  movie made only to win an oscar, but a simple sense of genius made to  give  enjoyment to the fans.  Movies made not to win awards, but to win smiles.  By writers,directors,actors, and the whole crew,who don't care if the  movies critticaly aclaimed or dumped upon. Just as long the everyday person  enjoys it, and because they enjoyed working on it.  It's amazing I was able  to figure this out, since my teacher was like all those critics.  Why is  Ghostbusters so great?  Let me reasure you that if you have any doubts  about this movie that you can not be dissapointed!  This is one of the  reasons this movie is so great. It doesn't matter weather you're 6,16,or  even 60 you will enjoy this movie.  Ghostbusters has something in it for  everybody.  No matter your intrest.  Weather it be ghosts,ghostbusting,  comic books, comedy, sci-fi, action, actors that compliment eachother on  stage,theateratrical genius, movies that don't make you say,"that was  so fake",or don't make you try and figure out how something like that  happened, movies that give you something to talk about afterward,movies  that you spot something new everytime(trust me I've seen it more then 100  times and I still pick up on things), movies that never get old, or movies  that don't have boaring parts,or slow moving scenes,witty comedy,or movies  you can enjoy with the whole family.  Even if you like scientificly true  movies,or don't believe in ghosts(I don't either), Ghostbusters has a very  sound science to it.  There is a great website that has a very detailed  report on the science of it.  So you see know how old you are, or what you  like you will enjoy this movie.  I have argued this movie's  singnificance in class time and time agian.  Ghostbusters comes up often in  class,and not just by me.  This movie has an example of almost every  technique in it.  It's montage is one of the most famous in movie history.  Well, I know I said alot,but Ghostbusters deserves it.  I also hope I've  helped you make your decision about this movie.  I didn't really get to the  plot, but I think I've said enough.  Thanks for reading my thoughts.  Now  buy the movie and see if you agree with me.