High Noon  vs. Rio Bravo?

Should we think of it as a competition when Rio Bravo was made as a protest against the way Will Kane had to go around the town looking for special deputies only to get turned down?

The behind-the-scenes talk is that both John Wayne and director Howard Hawks had contempt for High Noon and the way its protagonist went looking for help to fight the bad guys.  Guess these two guys never heard of the Second Amendment or even of special deputies or posses!

Actually as stand-alone stories both movies have messages worth learning.  One should see true life experiences in both of them.  In High Noon the town's people all had excuses for why helping out their marshal wasn't good for them at the moment.  Good thing the men who fought for us in the Revolutionary War didn't refuse to join the Army because they "got a wife and kids".

And make no mistake, the U.S. Founding Fathers included the Second Amendment in the base of our political system as a way for the citizenry to remain armed in order to oppose tyranny.  Now it may be true that they were worried more about tyranny from oppressive governments both foreign and domestic, but just how good would the people of Kane's town be against tyranny on a national scale when they couldn't even be bothered to stand up against it in their own back yard?

In High Noon Will Kane eventually finds help from his own wife who comes to see that she owes more loyalty to her vows to her husband than to some goofy religious belief that says that to fight evil you lie down in front of it and spread your legs -- figuratively, if not literally.

In Rio Bravo the sheriff says upholding the law is the job of professionals, then what does he do?  Like his friend says, he employs a drunk and a cripple, and then decides he needs more help and looks to a teenager and deputizes the kid.  LOL  Said cripple, by the way, who so unprofessionally shoots and nearly blows the head off of a fellow deputy and can't even admit it when he made a mistake.  ("How was I supposed to know the Dude was gonna go and git hisself duded up?  Huh?...  HUH???")  And then when Feathers tries to sit guard in the lobby of the hotel and falls asleep Chance treats her tenderly for her effort and carries her off to bed.  Looks like Wayne and Hawks couldn't make up their minds just what it was they believed!  Sort of schizoid, IMO.

Too bad for them, but no reason for us to not take away some important lessons from both of these movies, one of which is that it seems it is never comfortable or convenient nor can we expect the timing to be "right" when we are called upon to stand up against evil; and having one's personal demons going on inside is no excuse to bow out of the fray, turn inward, and forsake the common good.