and this movie is no exception...
Harrison Ford and Liam Neeson stars in the fascinating movie inspired by the events that really happened in 1961, when a nuclear submarine considered the pride of the Soviet Navy developed a leak in the coolant system for one of it's reactors. These reactors must be cooled, and when they are not they can turn into a runaway reaction, much like what happened at the Chernobyl nuclear plant.
It's a great story, adapted into a really good film that will keep you interested.
Once central theme of this movie is just how screwed up the Soviet Union was at this point. It was all about appearances and they did anything they could to look like the all-powerful kingdom that they wanted to be. They literally knew this sub was not ready to be put to sea, but a high placed official had made a promise to the deity-like ruler at the time and that meant anyone who voiced concerns would find their military career over.
Characters on screen made references to failed Soviet space missions in which the history was completely covered over and hidden - men who gave their lives only to be completely forgotten and forbidden to mention. It makes you wonder how many people gave their lives for nothing more than to be considered an embarrassment.
Ultimately, Harrison Ford presented to the audience what it was like to see the Soviets at there best - utilizing teamwork and self-sacrifice for the betterment of all people. This was manifested when he led the crew through a series of safety drills from a stumbling, ineffective beginning to a completely successful end that completed the original goals requested by Moscow. All of this in spite of the gross lack of quality control evident in the mechanical integrity of the sub.
Harrison Ford is one of my favorite actors, so I usually see anything he is in, minus comedies and this movie reaffirmed that.  He lends so much credibility to high drama scenes that you cannot imagine anyone else having the role. Ford should avoid comedies and interviews because he does not do well in them.
The submarine dubbed the "widowmaker" claimed almost thirty lives as I counted them, from 1961 and up to twenty years later. The most inspiring deaths come from those who knew they were going to die - those comrades who gave all to save the ship and the crew.