Angelina Jolie is a credit to her profession. I have seen, owned, enjoyed several of Ms. Jolie's films on DVD -- but few more so than "Changeling." The film is, in short, a movie and a half. Director Clint Eastwood has given us a well-paced, disturbing (yet strangely uplifting), riveting picture here -- and his choice of Jolie in the lead could have been no better. She gives what one can only aptly call a truly tour-de-force performance here. The lady certainly deserved her Oscar nom for this film, and I'm sorry that "Changeling" did not make it as her 1st Best Actress win. In looking up that year's winner (2008), one can scarcely criticize Kate Winslet -- always superb as well -- so I'd not deny her what Academy voters considered a deserved win for "The Reader." But, I must tell you: Angelina Jolie is absolutely mind-bogglingly superb in "Changeling." Her performance is measured, often under-played (to great effect, I might add), and ultimately immensely powerful. One of the film's themes, per website Wikipedia, is female disempowerment. Well, same is a tough sell with Angie around. Her role as Christine Collins, mother to the suddenly-missing nine-year-old Walter, is anything but disempowered -- despite the all-powerful, disgustingly corrupt LAPD of 1928 and/or its fierce machinations. Why? Because Ms. Jolie, as Christine, endures it all -- and she truly is put through the mill here -- with suitable dignity, pride, strength, and a mother's fierce belief in her goal: the revelation of the truth and return of her missing son. Angelina Jolie (very properly dressed, coiffed, made-up and mannered for the period) is alternately intelligent, compelling, emotional -- while never hysterically so, unless due to completely understandable provocations -- motherly, tender and fierce. In short, she alone is perhaps the perfect match for the film's Machevalian LAPD. Several good performances here, to be sure (as well as an excellent script, despite a few unresolved holes, from which Eastwood could shoot so effectively), but "Changeling" is ultimately a one-woman show: the film belongs to Angelina Jolie; always compelling, worth watching and experiencing -- but, to date, never more so than in this marvelous, frustrating, distrurbing, yet well-worth-the-effort film.