For a number of years the Band was far and away my favorite musical group. Still, I hadn't gotten around to hearing or viewing `The Last Waltz' until last week. Knowing how live performances tend to go, naturally I expected some unevenness.

First of all, let's discuss the lead singing: Danko, their most usual lead singer, seemed to be trying his utmost to sing away from and around the melodies we were used to from the songs' recorded versions, not in the sense of being off-key, though that was happening occasionally; but it was more like he was inventing ways to refer to the original lines without actually singing them, almost constantly changing things melodically, and to a lesser extent rhythmically. It was inventive riffing, though what he ended up with usually wasn't solid enough to rival the original tracks. I thought that it made the song performances rather weak; it is very possible that he was, as we used to say, quite ripped.

The marvelous Manuel and Helm didn't display this degree of self-indulgence; their songs employed smaller amounts of improvisational flair; they sang their leads passionately, powerfully, and generally more in tune.

As for the non-Band performers, everyone did a very fine job of it; I thought the three best were Muddy Waters, Neil Young, and surprisingly, Neil Diamond.

Muddy Waters put on the most spirited performance, with his singing and what we might call jumpy personal choreography; and this was a fellow who at the time was getting on in years. He was well-dressed, and had a jocular, professional demeanor while singing this down-and-dirty blues standard.

Diamond, whose singles I generally don't enjoy listening to with the exception of his very first ("Solitary Man"), sang a song I had never heard, which was neither one of his singles nor one of their B-sides. This protest song was kind of reminiscent of the emotional tone of what Buffalo Springfield had sometimes done. It was a well written piece, and he totally nailed the performance. The song is titled "Dry Your Eyes" (not to be confused with the soul ballad of the same name, sung by Brenda and the Tabulations back around 1969).

Neil Young gave a killer performance of his song "Helpless". As folks know, when Young is singing lead in a song, there's really no room in the sonic palette for other vocalists; when the chorus comes, he dials it down perfectly (so all the voices can harmonize beautifully). Nevertheless, during the second verse, Joni Mitchell, whether by pre-arranged design or as a result of ego-frippery, began improvising these noodling counter-melodies which she couldn't pull off because of the inherent strength and richness of Young's lead. As such, most of the time she was singing out of key as there was nowhere for the notes to land. And Mitchell NEVER sings out of key. I generally love her singing to the max; but what she tried to do was based on a bad decision, in my opinion.

When Joni got around to singing her own song, she was on key, as is usual for her, but her enthusiasm seemed pale as compared with many of the other performers.

Bob Dylan didn't sing as well as on his recordings, but his stage presence and charisma were unequaled; I couldn't take my eyes off of him.
Robbie Robertson's guitar playing was excellent, until he was playing in the same song with Clapton; but who can match the brilliance of Clapton on the guitar?