I'm updating my review to add:  I agree with the reviewers who complain about the quality and the editing decisions.  Why they would do that is a mystery and inexcusable.  However, I'm keeping the 5 stars because Elvis' performances are just so FANTASTIC!!  If this is the only way to see him perform these shows, then so be it-- Buy it to see a wonderful, talented, never-be-anyone-else-like-him entertainer at his best!  (And hope for a re-release with better quality and editing.)

The rest is my original review:

YUM!  I forget how awesome Elvis really was until I watch him on DVD again.  This should be a great set as I have both versions separately.  This is from the time period that most people think was Elvis at his very best--when he returned to live performances, lean & mean, after making those awful (his opinion) movies of the mid-60's.  (BTW--not all his movies were awful--Check out "King Creole" if you've never seen it.  What a waste of talent later on--but I'm wandering off-topic.)

I prefer the second "Special Edition," if I had to pick one, but the original has material that's left out of the re-edited edition, so both are desirable and worth buying.  Some of the fans such as the little old lady are still worth seeing in the original, and there are some songs there that are omitted from the Sp. Ed.  The new version has much more of Elvis' performances on stage all total in it and less extra material.

Elvis was and always will be "the man."  This is a great price for both these DVD's.  Wonderful material for fans and even those not that familiar with Elvis (and who don't know what they missed.)

The "Aloha" set is great also, recorded a couple of years after this set.  Both these sets are fantastic.  And, the "Comeback Special" from a couple of years earlier (TV) is lean & mean, too.

I just wish they'd release "The Lost Performances" and "Elvis On Tour" on DVD.  Cannot imagine why they haven't.  Maybe someday . . .

Anyway, you won't go wrong with this set.  It's a classic and Elvis was so, so good!