The title of this review might seem a little bit over the top, but seen now (19 years later) it definitely has become the most clear document of the influence Madonna has had on modern pop music and culture in general (fashion to just mention one thing - with the Gaultier cone bras and the signature fake pony tail), especially during the last decade of the 20th Century (which was her golden age) and marked the tone of what wannabe divas had to follow to be successful. But once they started to follow her steps she did not stay the same and shifted shapes in front of our very eyes. I am sure this movie has a lot fewer candid shots into the backstage world of her Blonde ambition tour than what she wanted the public to believe. Madonna likes to control eveything and I am sure she calculated a lot of how she behaved and what she said in the film. But it does not matter, because that is what her on-stage persona is and what has made her one of the greatest artists of our generation. I like the definition she gives of herself in one of the scenes: "I know I am not the best dancer or singer, but my mission is to push people's buttons and to make them think". She also says in one segment (talking to the press in Italy, about the controversy with the Catholic Church and her performance and use of Catholic symbols): "My show is not like any other rock show, is a theatrical performance...I do not endorse a way of life I represent it on stage...the public is left to make their own conclusions about what they see". She probably was not the first artist to be outrageous and not afraid of testing our comfort level, but nobody else took it to this level of spectacle and nobody has managed to stay in command of her own artistic decisions and also to remain current even after almost 30 years. I will probably seem ancient (even though I am only 34) but the kids who now have Lady Gaga as their queen (who, BTW, I consider the legitimate heir to Madonna's throne...though not yet!) should take a look at this documentary to confirm what "old" people like me are constantly saying: Gaga did not invent the "outrageous hypersexualized super fashionable diva style", that is all Madonna!, and this documentary is the proof. We need a DVD/Bluray rerelease of this and all of her old tour videos ASAP!!.