First off, at least some of the hype was true: this is the most overtly Lovecraftian film ever made.  It nails HPL's obsessions one after another.  You got your fear and loathing of the sea and ocean life, foreigners and religion, miscegenation and sexuality, alien cultures and all things organic, including (ulp) ourselves.  It even does a decent job of conveying some of the weird awe Lovecraft could conjure up when dealing with cosmically alien plot elements.
The leading man will likely be seen as a liability by many of the film's viewers, but that is because he is the most Lovecraftian protagonist ever put on screen; he's weak, pale, neurotic and almost completely overwhelmed.  The acting is uniformly solid.  If you've seen the director's RE-ANIMATOR you have some idea of what Stuart Gordon can do, but where the earlier film is played like some outrageous cartoon, DAGON is played almost completely straight.
I feel the need to mention a couple of caveats.  This is a B-movie.  Was a time (not long ago) that I wouldn't feel the need to say anything about this, but here in the age of the blockbuster genre film with "seamless special effects" I guess some might feel cheated by anything less than an Industrial Light & Magic fireworks show.  This isn't it.  The film has atmosphere and suspense to burn, and the make up is excellent, but the CGI effects look just like CGI effects.
Also, although there really isn't that much violence in the film, when it does occur it is pretty hard to take.  There is one scene that is as grisly as anything I've seen in a movie, bad enough that I imagine it might make a good number of viewers actually turn it off.  Too bad, really.  The scene runs the risk of eclipsing the rest of the film and being the only thing people remember about it.
Although much has been made of how the story is not a direct adaptation of any of HPL's works, this is simply not true.  DAGON is 'Shadow Over Innsmouth'.  Expanded, relocated and updated, but it's 'Innsmouth' in every important detail and plot point.  Of course it's more lurid and in-your-face than HPL's stories ever were and makes absolutely explicit what he would merely suggest.  But if you can accept that I think you'll find this a pretty gripping film.
I say Check It Out.  It's not perfect, but it's an honest attempt to bring HPL's vision to life on  screen.