As an American kid this TV series was ten years before my time. I did have Howard Pyle's classic novel "The Merry Adventures of Robin Hood" in one of those Whitman books you could buy from a rack in the drug store. I thoroughly enjoyed reading that, but I have never seen any filmed versions of Robin Hood until now (not counting Mel Brooks' series "When Things Were Rotten"). I was tempted to watch Kevin Costner's "Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves," but I never did because I suspected the story would be updated for modern prejudices, much like Kevin Sorbo's "Hercules" which one reviewer described as "a surfer dude on his way to a Renaissance fair."

When I bought this Richard Greene series for five bucks at Wal-Mart, I figured it would be fun, not knowing that I would be both surprised and amazed at the quality of the acting, the writing, and the way it was filmed. It really takes you back into a credible medaeval atmosphere. It may have once been considered a kid's show, but it surely has kept the adults entertained around our house! It also brought back pleasant memories of a time in our culture when writers took romantic heroism seriously, and didn't have to turn everything into tongue-in-cheek "camp."

In some circles today it is popular to dis Robin Hood as the world's first socialist, because he "robbed from the rich to give to the poor."  If that were true he would be an evil man.  But this TV series sets the record straight by showing that Robin was an avenger of the poor, who only took from the rich what they had previously stolen and returned it to its rightful owners.

And speaking of avengers, I was also a fan of the British television series "The Avengers."  The women in that show, Catherine Gale, Emma Peel, and Tara King, all had respectable British properness, but underneath all that was this element of delicious mischief. I am now going to have to add Bernadette O'Farrell's Maid Marian to my mental list of "Hottest British Women."

I am extremely pleased with my purchase of this series, and I hope you would be, too!