Pedro Almod&oacute;var, the king of Spanish cinema is back with Volver, a film with a lot of humor, but also the finest drama.

The story, written by Almod&oacute;var himself, is original and has great twists and surprises for you to enjoy.

The story in short without any spoilers:

Raimunda (Pen&eacute;lope Cruz) is a young mother and together with her sister Sole (played by Lola Due&ntilde;as) who has an illegal barbershop, they always clean their mother and father's grave, who have passed away long ago. They both have their own problems, and Raimunda experienceses a big one together with her daughter Paula (played by Yohana Cobo),which I'm not gonna tell, you'll see.

But then, suddenly, the mother (played by Carmen Maura) returns from her grave as a spirit, because she has some unfinished business to complete before she can rest in peace. So with their mother walking around, some big problems here, and some little problems there, Volver is a delighted comedy and drama at the same time that will entertain you endlessly!

Pen&eacute;lope Cruz is absolutely fantastic in this film. The problem with her acting in Hollywood is that she can never really show that she can really act because of the language that doesn't come out as fluently as Spanish (Not that she is terrible when she acts in English, she is a wonderfull actress, but still, you don't feel like it is her 100% because of the language barriar). Now, in her own language, Pen&eacute;lope shows she can really act and steals the show. She really gave me goosbumps in some of her scenes because she can act emotionally very realisticly which absolutely grabbed me. Expect acting from the highest level!

The rest of the cast is also fantastic and they all act great. It is an absolute star cast where nobody is out of place or not good: maqnificent job!

Even though the film is completely spoken in Spanish, you'll have no problem getting into this film. When the first scene appeared on the screen, I was so into it, that I was not even noticing that I was still reading the subtitles. And thats the power of the Spanish cinema. Volver shows how great Spanish movies can be. It is a fantastic film that will make you laugh, cry and entertain you till the very end.

I don't know how it will go with you, but after seeying this film in the cinema, I can offically say that I am sold to the Spanish cinema: Mucho Gracias!

So I will probally Volver (return) to the cinema for more Spanish delight in the future!

Enjoy and Let yourself be grabbed by the story, the emotion, the comedy and the acting: entertainment from the highest sort. So go and see this, cause it will be in your mind for some time!