The Last Crusade recaptured the fun and excitement of the first Indiana Jones movie with a father son pair-up that is both genius and funny.  James Bond and Indiana Jones together...now there's a dynamic duo!  What is especially ironic is that Spielberg was inspired to have a cloak and dagger plot in the Indiana Jones series that was born from a love the James Bond films.

Harrison Ford brings Indiana Jones back to life with an amazing performance. But this time we get to see a bit of the little boy who is trying to impress his father.  A couple of the most enjoyable parts of the movie are when Indiana does something that he is proud of and looks to his father for approval...only to gets a look of disdain!

Sean Connery has always been one of my favorite actors ever since the early days of Bond. A true mans man and a ladies man. He seems to be as comfortable in a suit as wresting in the mud.  Connery gives a stunning performance in the Last Crusade as a driven man in search of the Holy Grail who deeply loves his son, but as with many fathers, is clumsy at expressing that love.  One of the great lines of the movie came when Connery confronts his son about the origin of his adventurous name when he says in typical Connery fashion: "The dogs name was Indiana!"

There are many memorable scenes.  We get to find out why Indy hates snakes. In the opening of the movie the young Indy (played by River Phoenix) falls into a circus train car full of snakes...and hates them ever after.  Who can blame him!  Another memorable scene is when Indiana comes face to face with Hitler (at a rally in Berlin) who signs the critical journal Indy is holding.

The plot is about a quest for the Holy Grail that has incalculable value and magical powers to bring long...long life.  The plot twists and turns, frightens and delights as our heroes get closer to the final prize.  In one of the final twists of the plot Indian must "Choose Wisely" to save his father's life and not losing his own!

Overall a great addition to the Indiana Jones collection!

The Re-Discovery of Common Sense: A Guide to: The Lost Art of Critical Thinking