Ok, I learned my lesson along time ago to not read a book then see the movie. It was so true here. But, being a lover of movies I understand that not everything in a book can be put into film, because we'd all be sitting in the movie theaters for at least 3-4 hours for the really good ones. I was only disappointed because alot of the events that occured in Sidda's childhood that ultimately affected her adulthood and her relationship with her mother, would most likely be to disturbing to the mainstream movie goers who do not freqeuntly watch those made for TV moves that rerun on Lifetime.
  However, I did enjoy the fact that I believe another reviewer wrote, that unlike the book where Sidda when she received the scrapbook from her mother in the mail and was left to herself to go through and conjure up the images of the YaYa's activities, in the film Sidda has the living characters there at her disposal to help in explaining and adding the details that make the reconciliation easier to digest on celluloid. Of course the saccharine ending would not have been easily done in the book.
  Being from Lousiana and now living in the area of this fine state where Divine Secrets takes place, where ironically my mother's family is from, I assumed I would fall in love with the books and the movie, especially because Sandra Bullock is one of my favorite actresses. Only to my disappointment to find out as the credits rolled that it was filmed entirely in North Carolina. To quote my sister, "What a travesty in the interpretation of Southern Literature!" Louisiana has just as many picturesque locations as those in the film. Our plantation homes and just off the highway "Acadian" homes are as aesthetically pleasing as those in the film as well. Haven't the location scouts seen Man in the Moon with Sam Waterson &amp; Reese Witherspoon?
  And don't even get me started on the Louisiana slang the women use. The YaYas frequently use the phrase "petit bebe" (pronounced "pah tee bah bay"), whereas the locals use "cha bebe" pronounced "sha bah bay." I must admit that the use of some British actresses also fluffed my feathers for a moment, but how long can one stay mad at Maggie Smith. I absolutely adore the scene where she's on the phone with Vivi and gives her a smooch goodbye that completely reminds me of when my aunt, mom, sister and I get together and start getting affectionately silly.
  Even though it has its flaws, it does a decent job of protraying the relationship of two women with a consedrable past that are able to go beyond it begin anew. As with all things in life, as long as we come out learning something new the world will keep going on.