MAD MAX:BEYOND THUNDERDOME was the third instalment of the much loved MadMax trilogy by that other George (Miller, that is). It is a well accepted fact that THE ROAD WARRIOR is considered the crown jewel of the series, nothing will top that, but it seems that BEYOND THUNDERDOME has been unfairly written off by many people.First of all, this was never ment to be a ROADWARRIOR part 2, this was just the next logical step in the story of Max Rocktanski, and i think it is a superb film. The violence is basically cut down to half of what it was in THE ROAD WARRIOR, which is not saying much because RW was choke full of it, so there still is some degree of gruesome violence. If you liked THE ROAD WARRIOR, you will like this, it has that same great feel to it as the first two did. You have Mel Gibson returning as Max Rocktanski, Bruce Spence is back as well, playing as Jebidiah, who bears a striking simularity to his last role as The Gyro Captian. I will admit that this movie has a more commercial sheen to it then the previous two, but it really did a good job on putting a close to the Mad Max trilogy i think. The Queen of Barter Town (played by Tina Turner) was a very interesting character, trying to rebuild a soceity powered by methain, exploiting Max to meet her own ends, then simpley discarding him when he is of no use to her anymore.That is some devious character rigth there! Then at the very end, you see that she really is not as evil as you suspected, she simpley wanted to establish some order again in a world ruled by barbarism. Master Blaster was one of the coolest movie villians ever, because individually, they were weak, as Blaster has the intelligence of a brick and Master is a 3 foot dwarf, but togeather they were virtualy unstoppable. Max himself is almost propelled to a moses like status at the end, as he becomes the only hope for a band of lost children in the desert,fitting in with their longing for a messiah to save them and leading them to the promised land (which is a bombed out Sydney Austrailia in this movie). It was perfect how the character of Max Rocktanski was finally fleshed out in this movie, from a simple famliy man/policeman with a led foot and a sawed off shotgun to the savior of mankind in a world of chaos. The end of the movie really gives you that light at the end of the tunnle message, with the group of lost childen finally finding a home and possibley a new foundation for a better future. The fight between Max and Blaster was just priceless, with it being something to the effect of American Gladiators meets Unreal Tornement meets Conan. That was one of the coolest fight senes ever! And who could forget about the lovable, snarling Iron Bar? played by the same guy who fronts the Austrialian rock band Rose Tatoo. One of my favorite sences was when Max had to turn in all of his weapons in order to proceed into Barter Town, man!, Max had a serious arsenal of weaponry hidding under that coat! revolvers,hand guns, knives, crossbow, a sawed off shotgun/shotgun shells/ammunition, the guy behind the desk literally s h i t himself! The hidden knife inside the flyswatter was also cool.This is a worthy follow up to THE ROAD WARRIOR and a perfect way to end this trilogy. My only worry is that the new Mad Max movie is going to ruin/tarnish the legacy, i really want it to be good, but i dont know if Gibson could do Max again (mainly because of age now), i'm just simpley being realistic, this is the same guy that gave us movies like "What Women Want". I sure hope Miller wasn't getting any ideas from Lucas on how to ruin a classic trilogy/legacy with rancid sequil/prequil movies done 20 years after the fact, it is just a concern, thats all.But anyway,  this is a movie seriously worth checking out! All of those Austrailian actors=pure gold!

Some classic quotes:

"I can feel the dice rolling! HA HA!"

"Two men enter, one man leave!"

"If you haven't got something to trade, you have no buisness in Barter Town"

"But he's just a raggedy man!"

"I'v got skills"

"It's connected to 12 pounds of dynamite, it'l blow the whole crap out of this place...literally"

"No deal, you fix!"

"Who run BarterTown?"

"I wouldn't do that if i were you"

"Me max, thats my vehicle"