This is a movie that would be hard to like if it were explained to you in a literal sense.  A movie about a 40 something Italian hitman that falls in love with a 12 year old girl.  But it is much more than the parts that make it a movie.
First off the bat it ignores a lot of stereotypes that existed at that time about hitmen, especially Italian ones that worked for a face that is played up to be part of La Cost Nostra, even it if isn't said outright.  He doesnt' wear Armani Suits, eat spaghetti, sleep with high class floozies, or hang out at bars bragging about who he has done in all while drinking shots and snorting coke.  No, he is a quiet introvert, that does his job, and meticulously focuses on his quiet and simple life.  He is illiterate, has only one real friend, cares for his plant like it was a pet, and loves going out to musicals.  Which, the latter is a great scene, seeing a hardened killer smiling like he was a 10 year old boy while watching muscials at a nearly empty theater was classic.  Plus the more you get to know of his character the more you realize he is stunted emotionally, flawless killer, but unable to handle simple social interaction.
Natalie Portman shows her talent in her first role as the rebellious daughter of a drug handler.  She shows not only her potential for being a great actress, but intelligence in this role.  Where she falls in love with a hitman and is dead set on avenging the death of her little brother, the one person in her dysfunctional family she cares for.
Gary Oldman is in his classic evil form as a drug addicted DEA agent that has crossed the line.  True, he does overdo the character, but that is what makes it fun.  Watching him pop some green pill, chatter about Bethoven, then procede to break into an apartment killing everyone in it was one of the best parts of the film.
The camera angles and the characters in this movie are fresh and gritty.  Not falling to sterotypes, they make you feel like you are really in New York, sweating along with the cop in a bad suit and five o'clock shadow.
The love story is bizarre, but works in the end.  Two misfits, that find each other and help pull themselves out of their downward spiraling lives.
This is a powerful movie that I think everyone should experience.  It hits on many levels and appeals to many different types of people, people who like to view films as artwork to those who just like an action flick, this movie will deliver.  Though I was tempted to take away a star since I didn't like the additions of the directors cut, the power still holds.  See the theatrical release first, then watch the directors cut.  Afterwards you can pick your favorite and watch them over and over again.