Spice and Wolf is one of those shows that you shouldn't judge by its cover. What most people seem to notice first about it is that it involves an occasionally nude tsundere (read: emotionally abusive on the outside, loving on the inside) wolf girl, Holo, (shown clothed on the cover) going on a journey with a man she met with for only a few moments beforehand. If you only look at those aspects, you might be tempted to think that this is yet another fanservice-laden show about yet another guy with a goddess for a girlfriend that is designed to appeal to only a certain group of people. While you'd be forgiven for thinking that just by seeing the cover/ reading the description, S&W's appeal lies outside of that.

Essentially, this is a show that focuses on the relationship between its two protagonists, Holo the Wisewolf, a proud wolf deity that wishes to return to her hometown, and Kraft Lawrence, an enterprising merchant who agrees to bring her home. A bond gradually grows between the two as they travel from town to town and learn more about each other (and no, Lawrence does not agree to escort her in exchange for her being his girlfriend; their relationship grows at a reasonably realistic rate and a romance only starts to blossom by the end of this season). The main characters are well-developed, and you'll likely grow to care about them as they progress beyond the stereotypes they seem to be at first. Just a note to those who are only interested in Holo because of her character design and nudity (and no, I'm not trying to say most of you are): it lessens drastically as the series progresses.

Another main focus of this show is on economics. Lawrence is a merchant, and he doesn't put his job on hold once he starts to travel with Holo. As a result, nearly all of the major conflicts in this season result from some economic problem Lawrence faces with only a couple of "action sequences" sprinkled in between them. As you might imagine, the series is slow placed. If the prospect of a dialogue-based series that mainly deals with economics bores you, you might want to reconsider buying this series.

As far as visuals go, this series is prettier and better animated than it probably has a right to be. Most dialogue based shows have a small animation budget where the characters move awkwardly whenever they're doing something other than talking, but this one looks great at all times. It might not match the animation quality of something like say, Fullmetal Alchemist, but it does better in this category than other shows like it.

The music in the series is pleasant to listen to and fits it well. The opening fits the themes of loneliness (and of course traveling) that run through the through the show and sounds lovely to boot, and the ending is an upbeat, catchy, and charming engrish song. As for the language tracks in it, the Japanese and English dubs are equally good to listen to. You won't want to automatically switch over to subs if you give the dub a chance, but the Japanese cast is worth listening to as well, and sub purists won't be missing much by sticking with it.

One final note: this series is based off of a still ongoing series of light novels by Isuna Hasekura. This season adapts two out of the thirteen existing books, so don't expect for any sense of closure beyond that of having finished a book in a series; the leads still have a ways to go at its end before they reach the end of their journey. There's a second season that recently finished airing in Japan that covers two more books, though, so it's not as though the anime will stay unfinished forever.

Overall, if you can get past Holo's outward appearance and the show's slow pace, you'll find a surprisingly enjoyable show in Spice and Wolf.