I am obviously in the minority here, which is fine with me, but I like the first season of "A Different World" the best. I always have. Yes, the latter seasons were good. Some serious and relevant issues were addressed, including drinking, date rape, racism, and HIV. However, I still think Debbie Allen made a big mistake getting rid of Marisa Tomei (Maggie Lauten). I can imagine all of the storylines which could have been written for her, as a white student at a predominantly African-American college. The upside of it all was Marisa went on to have an Academy-award winning career, with Ms. Allen having been in the audience the night she won for "My Cousin Vinny". Now, that revenge was SWEET... Did you notice Freddie was actually a clone of Maggie? She was just black. They even had the same hair color- red.

In regards to Lisa Bonet, I thought she added a charm to the show, and was the perfect fit for Dwayne Wayne. She was a much better fit for him than Whitley. It took some time to get used to that pairing. I loved the rapport and chemistry of Denise, Maggie, and Jaleesa. I adored Dwayne, liked Ron, and enjoyed watching Whitley, a modern-day version of Scarlett O' Hara. I thought Ron and Millie were cute together. In case anyone remembers, "A Different World" won the People's Choice Award that year for best new comedy. I still recall Lisa giving the acceptance speech, thanking God, and giving a shoutout to her hubby, Lenny Kravitz.

I was a junior in high school when "A Different World" made its debut, and we all loved it from the jump. Every Friday at school, we would talk about what happened the night before. There was a simplicity and overall innocence that year. It was fun to watch.

That is why I am glad season one has been released on DVD, along with the extra features. It is so heartwarming and nostalgic to see these episodes again, one by one. Watching Whitley slap Dwayne at the pit when he wouldn't clear up rumors they had been fooling around in her dorm room, Jaleesa, Denise and Maggie singing and dancing to "Rockin' Robin", the initial hostility towards Lettie when she replaced Stevie in the dorm, Dwayne and Denise eventually going on a date, and sharing a kiss at the end... And yes, Denise wearing the pig nose, and Maggie losing her eggby, "Artie".

Many people prefer the first season of "Charlie's Angels" over the ones which followed. Just like in the case of Farrah Fawcett, there was something very special about Lisa Bonet. That reminds me, in the opening credits, Denise, Jaleesa, Maggie, and Dwayne are seen washing a vintage orange and white car. During the ending credits, they are shown jamming on the same car.

Who's car was that???