I think the title is misleading it's not really P90X"+" it's more like a condensed version of P90X. As someone who's done the original P90X you figure these dvds would be more intense, but they're not they're just different and shorter.

Also with this series if you're looking to build muscle the original P90X is superior. A lot of the moves are timed so you're doing 15-20+ reps which isn't the best way to build muscle (6-12 reps is ideal to building muscle and strength). Although the dvds aren't perfect you can incorporate them into your workout routines. Here are some notes on the dvds:

Kenpo+
Faster pace than the original and I prefer this one to the original. The mini yoga warm-up is okay, but sometimes I do jumping jacks and lunges instead. The last move on this dvd you do 8 high block and 4 knee ins in a front stance, it make much more sense to do this in a horse riding stance.

Interval+
You do cardio cardio moves at a slow, medium, and fast pace. It's a nice alternative to plyo or kenpo and will definitely make you sweat. I did find the one push up segment a little odd at first, but it's really not a big deal.

Upper+
This and Total Body+ reminds me more of circuit training. You use higher reps and lighter weights compared to the original P90X. It's a nice workout if you have a busy week and want to shorten your workout time slightly. Also I think that this is easier than the P90X workouts ie. Chest and Back workout, because instead of hitting chest and back non-stop you're including chest, back, biceps, triceps, and shoulders so your other body parts get to rest in between.

Total Body+
You'll sweat a lot and this is sort of a fun workout because of all the variety. By adding heavier weights to moves you can make this more intense, and of course you can pause to get in extra pushups or pullups. I guess you could substitute this for core synergistics in the original P90X if you're doing the lean version. I think they rely on this to be the leg work out in the "+" series and you use your legs, but I wouldn't count it as a leg workout especially if you've done P90X Legs and Back.

Abs Core +
In my opinion this is a lot better than the original ab ripper X if you have back issues. The sequence starts off with a hanging abdominal (ab) move, standing ab move, plank/core move, and a sitting ab move. This is a 20 minute workout and I think it's a bit exhausting to do this after another workout. I think this is best suited after doing 20-30 minutes of cardio. You are hanging from a pull bar and using some light weights during some of the moves which is great, but it's also exhausting after do a previous dvd/strength training.

Also they have a trainer track which is a nice feature where Tony comments on moves in in program. I wouldn't start with the trainer track until you get used to the routine, because you lose cuing on certain moves since he talks over himself (it's like watching a movie with the commentary on).

Overall the dvds can add some variety in a shorter workout. I think if they named this P90Xpress the reviews would be better, because this is not really an advanced version of P90X+.

My 2 cents: I think they should introduce more drop sets to exercise moves, and maybe weighted pullups. I think it's probably difficult for them to build on top of the original P90X without introducing an actual gym. I mean all of the pushup variations are great, but my chest built more muscle once I started doing bench presses and flys after P90X; pushups and pullups are great and they do build a different kind of strength which is more functional.

P.S. I didn't order from this seller I ordered from the beachbody website. I never had any problems with beachbody, but it's common to hear people complain about unauthorized charges etc.