John Wayne, the duke. That really should say it all, but since that probably wont fly, I'll pontificate further. From the opening shot, a door being open and through it seeing the wide, open red desert, you know you're in for an old school western treat. I first saw this film not that long ago, probably around Christmas, 2010. It was AMC, and I decided to sit down with a pizza in the freezing cold and watch it. I was, to say the least, AMAZED. At sixteen, I'd never really seen a John Wayne film, as sad as that is, its true. My dad's always been a huge fan, but I was never able to get into the old westerns, that is, until I saw this one. Wayne's performance as the bigoted Ethan reminded me so much of the people I'd see and meet, hard shelled, soft centered. A real anti-hero, and a fabulous performance. I live in California by the way, Central Valley, Nor Cal, and what I mean by him reminding me of people I know if, is well, some of my fellow Caucasians are well-meaning morons, I've been around many that just constantly insult the Hispanic population around here, which just makes them dislike us in general even more, a vicious cycle if there ever was one. Anyway, I could relate to the young character of Martin, perhaps the moral character of the story, trying to hold back the old ways, trying to keep justice from becoming in-justice, just faced in the opposite direction. The characters all seem so real, even after fifty years, and many changes in the styles of film acting, John Wayne still holds his ground for me. And I have, yes, grown to love many a John Wayne film, from Rio Bravo to The Sons of Katie Elder, is, most definitely, in my top twenty favorite actors. The story itself revolves around Ethan and Martin trying for over ten years to find a girl who was kidnapped by a group of Comanche, who also slaughtered and raped the girls parents and siblings. The real greatness of this film is the interactions between Wayne and Jeffery Hunter(Martin), and how, at the end of the film, Wayne's character, Ethan, does change into a better, less bigoted and prejudiced man. The only thing that I could see from the film that could have been better, or perhaps just enhanced the film, would be the final act, I felt like it ended too quickly and happily, though I think it DOES work, I almost do wish that it ended more grimly, and that the film had more of the somber elements that are found through out, but, as it lies, it is a grand and wonderful film.