Wow! Was I elated when I received my copy of "Serpentine", so anxiously and with infectious enthusiasm, I embarked on a personal exploration into the many dimensions of what collectively characterizes the belly dance journey of this simply awesome program. Kudos to WDNY for bringing Rachel Brice on board!

This 2 dvd program demystifies a beautiful path towards a transformatinal adventure of full body expression into tribal style belly dance. Rachel Brice, who well wears the adjective "serpentine", begins the two part program with a welcome and explains that the program is open level adding that "consistancy" is key in attaining your goals for this dance style. This program can be used in segments that can be applied daily in great length or in short segments for those with limited time. In addition, Rachel adds a mini class at the end of the program.

Disk one
Technique
Preparation and strengthening section include a fantastic conditioning workout based on standing and seated asanas, including proper breathing. For those of us who use yoga as a prelim to dance, you will find these poses beneficial for strengthening upper and lower back.  In addition,leg strengthening drills which I find useful for adding grace, fluidity and useful in ease of transition, isolation drills with 4 basic foot work patterns such as cross steps, triplets, grapevine and step touch and simple arm frames. Shimmy drills follow with challenging ¾ shimmies topped with traveling undulations and mayas.

Disk two
All about choreography
Two beautiful dances with demos broken down simply. The practice loops very well allow an ease of transition from combo to combo to facilitate learning.
Dance one: "Kozarica Kolo,"  by "Brass Menazeri, fun, upbeat.
Dance two: "Whisper Hungarian In My Ear," by the Toids.  Slow and enchanting, this is my favorite!
Finish the class with a yoga session (cooldown)
A Lecture class follows which is a great bonus- Rachel instructs on proper technique for backbends. footwork and arms patterns, yoga and proper breath which are essential to strengthen the body and create flexibility.
Two fabulous performances in the usual sinuous signature style that Rachel Brice is famous for which are utterly and absolutely breathtaking!
There is simply too much to write about. This program is abundant in technqiue, yoga, and key ingredients for a successful journey into "Rachel style" tribal fusion.It is wonderful that WDNY continues to bring forth fantastic instructors who share their creative success, and knowledge to enrich our belly dance lives.