This updated version of Hamlet was interesting, I must admit, but I wondered during most of the film why, for a hip and modern "Y2K" Hamlet, was this film not directed by Luhrmann when it was so obviously inspired by his interpretation of Romeo + Juliet.  Granted, Luhrmann is about as subtle as a Pollock painting, and Hamlet is a far more paced and strategic work that needs to be spared being drenched in Luhrmann's invasive technicolor with a disco beat.  However, I don't know if Almereyda was the filmmaker for this particular job.  He seemed to feed off of memorable moments in R + J and regurgitate them into his own unoriginal backwash (most blatantly, the final scene that completely ripped off the opening and closing scenes of R + J's modern day news anchor narration).  If he would have concentrated on the rich and grim beauty of the original play and not the appeasement of an MTV savvy demographic, I feel that it would have been a much more complete and respectable work.  
There were parts of this Hamlet that I enjoyed, though.  The acting by Venora and Shepard was wonderful.  MacLachlan played a nice Claudius.  I had to wonder, though, why on earth Ethan Hawke got the title role instead of Robert Sean Leonard, whom which this role seemed more suited for.  RSL is by far the more talented of the two actors and more comfortably natural in a Shakespearean atmosphere.  Hawke seemed tragically in place, however, with the trendy Julia Stiles who should have never ever been given the role of Ophelia.  Poor Bill Murray was the most out of place actor in the bunch, god love him.  I'm still trying to figure out the relevance of showing Polonius' oozing brains.  
It was an interesting effort, and I wasn't disgusted or felt like I had wasted my time watching it, and I didn't mind the modern setting or the spiffy shots of NYC hot spots, but, much like Almereyda's "Nadja", I think his reliance upon grainy video collage as innovative filmmaking falls a little flat.  There was also a significant amount of lines removed.  I wonder if there was a "director's cut" of this film, and if so, would it have revealed a more true-to-the-original feel to it.  There is something innately wrong with a version of Hamlet clocking it at under 2 hours.  
I agree with one of the reviewers who said the title is misleading, because one could go into this movie assuming that it is a faithful version of the original when, in fact, it is an abridged and at times unflatteringly manipulated experiment in video collage and product placement.  Did my eyes see it correctly when Hamlet's ghost disappeared into a Pepsi machine?!  That moment, alone, was enough to poison this movie.
I also agree with another reviewer who said that, if it weren't for his/her familiarity with the play, this version would be very confusing.  It was abridged enough that it skipped through sections so quickly, I felt like I had to rewind to understand the significance of the prior scene.  And the dialogue was often mumbled by the brooding Hawke, making me feel that much more disinterested in and detached from his character and actions.  If this was the director's intention, though, he indeed succeeded.  
Nonetheless, I think this movie is worth a look to Shakespeare buffs just to see a modern interpretation of the classic.  I think the casual onlooker who is unfamiliar with the text will be utterly lost and bored within the first half of the film, but it is an interesting experiment in filmmaking that, however, should probably have been rethought about two dozen more times before making it anywhere near a theatre.  &lt;...