After reading some reviews, I feel people haven't clued in about a couple of big factors!
1). Paris and Nicole were most likely told by the FOX execs to be as outrageous as possible. Was it staged? Who knows, but it's certain that their behavior was egged on by FOX. Would 20 million people have watched it if they were behaving, going to work on time, and doing a good job? No!
2). FOX most likely covered all the damage that was done, including compensating the milk man. Somebody had to pay for the stuff they did, so aside from minor aggrevation, there was probably no harm done.
That being said I found this show entertaining and I was quite impressed with Paris and Nicole. Before the show, I thought Paris was probably the biggest spoiled brat ever. Now, my perception of her has changed. Her and Nicole seem like decent people, who are not full of themselves. Not once did Paris or Nicole ridicule their Arkansas friends, make fun of their way of life, or make them feel inferior. They seemed to appreciate the values of these people and see the beauty of a place that frankly I would have a hard time seeing. It's made me look at things differently, believe or not. They made relationships with these people and seem to genuinely care about them. All in all, they seem like really nice girls, who haven't allowed their priviledges to make them nasty people! It just goes to show how wrong our perceptions can be.
I don't think Paris and Nicole failed, because I don't think they really tried, other than to make relationships with people. If anything, they were exploited by FOX! Again, who would have watched the show if it wasn't so outrageous? And outrageous it was...it provided lots of laughs and it was pure fun.
From the Reunion Show it seems that maybe Paris and Nicole may be a permanent fixture in the lives of some of the people they met, especially the familty. At least I hope so. It would be a shame if they lost contact, and it was so obvious from the tears shed during the last episode that all parties involved grew to care about each other, and what is more beautiful than that?
- Paris Hilton: At 22 years old, 5'8'', Measurements: 34" - 25" - 35". Has 3 pomeranians named Dolce, Sebastian and Prince. Also a chichuahua named Tinkerbell.
- Nicole Richie: At 22 years old, 5'2''. Was offered and accepted the chance to star in The Simple Life with her pal Paris Hilton after Nicky Hilton turned it down. She was adopted by Lionel Richie.