I had to give this 4 stars due to the fact that if you're a true die-hard Romero fan, you just "get" what he was trying to accomplish here.  From Night of the Living Dead through Land of the Dead, we've seen the progression of zombies from brainless killing/feeding machines to dead vessels that are still killing/eating machines, however, are beginning to recall some of their faculties from their previous lives as living human beings.  A scary prospect, but a fantastic one too.  These monsters were once us, and the only thing we had over them was the fact that we could think for ourselves and problem solve.  Now those differences seem to be less black and white, filling with lots of gray areas.

Now, as the synopsis states, this movie takes place after Diary of the Dead, and follows the military guy and his lackeys who harassed the film students and their instructor and stole their food and supplies.  They make the military characters actually likable in this film; you see things from their point of view in a dog-eat-dog world.

I'm not going to give anything away about the plot, but I will touch on what most people seem to be complaining about concerning this film: the special effects.  For whatever reason, be it low budget or whatever else may have swayed Romero, computer animation was chosen to create the special effects in this film.  We are used to seeing artfully spectacular effects by masters of makeup and effects in Romero's films, mixed with subtle computer graphics that keep things morbidly realistic.  Turning to all computer graphics for this film was a complete letdown of a shock.  I felt like I was watching a movie made for the SyFy channel; a bad B-movie when it came to special effects.  It was very disappointing.  And I think that Blu-Ray worked against the film in that respect: awful effects in HD are just awful more clearly for all to see.

Don't watch this film for the effects this time, as I have often done with Romero's previous films at first viewing.  This film needs to be watched from first view for the story line and social undertones.  Watch it to see how the zombies change from film to film and how the living people progress and digress.  Don't go looking for realism in special effects this time around.