Sunrise is a great 1927 classic that was recently featured on Turner Classic Movies. The central theme is the love and devotion that exist between a rural farmer and his wife. Initially, they represent the core of the stereotypical American dream by having a strong family unit that consists of their son, a maid, and an agrarian lifestyle that is reaching financial prosperity.

As often is the case, there is that proverbial serpent in this Garden of Eden who enters the scene in the form of a temptress. She is portrayed as a city woman who visits the countryside for an extended stay that will provide her opportunities to use her feminine wiles to lure any man into potential promiscuity. Unfortunately, for the aforementioned couple, the husband is the target of this villainess, who tries to coax him into having his wife permanently exited from the stage of life.

It is through the intermittent scenes that the viewer can almost gasp at how the development of minor seductions can entice people to potentially undergo drastic measures that are antithetical to their normal character. Despite these moments of unpleasantry, there are acts of resolution and redemption that hopefully will pave the way for a marriage that will solidify as a more tightly forged union.

Scenic are the views of both country and city landscape, as well as the cultural climate that existed back then. Ideally, one might say that F.W. Murnau, in large part, masterfully fused a silent documentary of life in 1920's Western society within an all-encompassing love story. One might notice that as the physical settings change, so do the dynamics that exist between the couple.

All in all, though fictional, Sunrise is the quintessential exposition of tested love and its duration. As laid out, there are no meandering, useless, pivotal points included that might cause the film to stray from its original theme. Limited to only a few key characters, one might say that Murnau executed the principle known as Occam's razor to create this masterpiece with a riveting storyline.