Though I would consider Charles Bronson to have been one of my more favorite action actors, I had never seen this movie until a recent airing on the Western Channel.  Low budget but well done.

Just a few comments:  I enjoyed the movie and will certainly watch it again. I would also say for me the picture is on the same level as Breakheart Pass or a few other pictures from Charlie.  Which means that it is a solid 3 to 4 star movie. Yes, I know, we have a non-Indian playing an Indian, well, that is how they did it back then. Also it isn't historical either, but then I doubt very much that it was meant to be. Accept it for what it was meant to be and is, very entertaining fiction.

A couple problems with the film:  it does seem somewhat dated, the kind of low budget early 70s Hollywood movie being put out back then. And I would hesitate to use the word 'western' for this track and chase movie. A western novel of today would label it "historical fiction" not western. Good Hollywood here, but bad history. But then the movie is only fiction, isn't it. No connection to the real Chato and his famous circle raid.

I generally do not like chase and track down movies or books, but somehow with this one it never gets tiring as many do.  And what a neat trick to have a few of the trackers begin to kill each other. How the hunter again can become the hunted. They begin to aid Chato in their own destruction.

One reviewer mentioned the word 'mimbreno' but the word as applied to Apaches is normally either seen as Mimbrenos or Mimbres. I must have missed the mentioning that Chato was of the Mimbres Apache tribe, will have to pay closer attention next viewing. The Mimbres were a part of the Chihenne group located near the Mimbres River and Mimbres Mountains of New Mexico.  The locale of the shooting of the movie was not New Mexico (Almeria, Andalusia, Spain), but it does have some of the New Mexico western semblance to it. A couple of the more recognizable members of the Mimbres Apache would be Victorio and Mangas Coloradas.

All-in-all this is an enjoyable film, not a western in any sense of the word, but never-the-less a movie with a raw, stark, alkaline feel to it.

Semper Fi.