GETTING "GIGLI" WITH IT!

My big brother thinks that Jennifer Lopez is the sexiest woman in the world, hands down.  Unlike me, he's also an incurable workaholic who doesn't get out to the movies too much.  So when we both planned to see "Gigli", the new J-Lo/Ben Affleck flick, I was a bit worried when I saw the reviews the day before.  After all, I didn't want Jay to waste his rare night out on a bad movie.  And if you read the reviews, you'll know that this movie was supposed to be REALLY bad... as bad as it gets.  But like most movies that the critics vilify without mercy ("Swept Away"), the movie wasn't really AS terrible as they said.  But then again, there ain't much to recommend "Gigli" to anyone except bona-fide J-Lo voyeurs.  The casting is bad.  Baby-faced Ben Affleck is only moderately believable as a hardened bad-ass.  Even though his character is presumably from L.A., the accent is definitely "New York tough guy".  And even though Jennifer Lopez plays an avowed dyke, her character-- with her dangerously short skirts and peek-a-boo tops-- remains unflinchingly J-Lo-like. OK, OK, so this is supposed to be a lightweight romantic comedy, not Academy Award bait. But even if you could just sit and watch these two attractive leads for the whole length of the movie, you'll still notice that the story is full of holes, and the dialogue is numbingly bad.

Ben Affleck plays Larry Gigli (pronounced "Jeely"-- rhymes with "really"), an L.A. gangster who kidnaps a brain-damaged young man-- the little brother of a Federal prosecutor.  Larry holds the charming captive (played by Justin Bartha, who seems to have modeled his character after Dustin Hoffman in "Rain Man") in his apartment, hoping that the prosecutor will be squeezed into dropping his case against Larry's boss.  In no time, we meet a mob enforcer named Ricki, played by Jennifer Lopez, who shows up to make sure Mr. Gigli gets the scheme right.  Needless to say, confilicting moralities and complications ensue, the most central one in "Gigli" being that Ben's character soon falls for the curvy charms of his new his partner-in-crime.  And, uh oh, there's only one bed in Larry's apartment. Larry may be attracted to the honey-skinned, highlighted Latina that's sleeping next to him, but he soon learns that Ricki is gay. Yep, she's  a lesbiana, a "pata".  So poor Larry has to go to sleep with a hard-on.  But not for long.  If this all sounds familiar so far, it's because Ben Affleck fell for a lesbian back in 1997's "Chasing Amy", a movie that explored this theme more sensitively and much better.  J-Lo lays on the bed next to Ben in a silky kimono, opening and closing her legs playfully, and tells him,"Show me what I've been missin' my whole life.  Lay some of that sweet hetero-lingus on me!"  Needless to say, the two make love, and predictably, J-Lo gets on top.  Later on, when the duo's little adventure winds down, our heroine tells her new lover, "Just to be upfront about this, I want you to know that when this gig is over, I'm gonna be leaving."  So she says...

J-Lo will no doubt provoke some carnal desires from the men in the audience with some gorgeously filmed yoga scenes.  She goes into a long, tittilating (but not believable) monologue about why she prefers the ladies.  This is the second time J-Lo's character goes off into a nonsensical, pseudo-psychological speech in the movie.  Earlier, we're supposed to believe that she uses her gift of gab to ward off a gang of young thugs.

"Gigli" is a bit claustrophobic, with most of the scenes involving just J-Lo and Ben together in Gigli's apartment or in the car . At some points it's like watching a filmed two-character stage play.  Secondary characters come in and out really quickly: Christopher Walken appears briefly as a suspicious policeman, Lainie Kazan embarrases herself as Affleck's overbearing mother, and Missy Crider engages in some loud histrionics as J-Lo's insecure blonde lesbian lover.  And finally, Al Pacino has a "stand back, I'm doing some serious acting now" scene towards the end of "Gigli" as a mob boss.  Whether you think that Pacino's acting steals the movie, or is just another embarrassment that fades among the ruins, will depend on how much patience you've had so far with "Gigli". The movie finally loses its staginess at the very end.  This last scene, involving the mentally challenged young guy that Larry and Ricki have been watching, is-- admittedly-- pretty cute and well-done.

"Gigli" is a movie that both J-Lo and Ben may want to forget quickly.  Or maybe not.  Didn't they meet on the set of this film?  Anyway, I can't help imagine that movie buffs twenty years from now will be wondering about a long-lost film called "Gigli" where (real life lovers at the time) Jennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck were playing mobsters in a movie together, with a cameo by Al Pacino.  In other words, it might look better (or at least, become a cult classic) in 2023.  Don't say you weren't warned!