After watching "Grizzly Man" I must say I can see why such accolades were heaped upon this piece of work.  As a pediatrician taking care of children with mental illnesses including Bipolar Disorder, ADHD and Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder this documentary brings multiple thoughts and emotions.  This film was fascinating in that it was by no means a documentary about Grizzlies. By the first frame of video and verbage of Mr. Treadwell it was obviously a film about the face of severe Bipolar Disorder.  There was not a moment of this man on the screen that was NOT a depiction of classic (nearly textbook) fast cycling Bipolar.

  The true amazing nature of this film is the lack of any acknowledgement of what was happening to this man amongst family and friends. So many of the others interviewed seemed detached and blunted which makes me believe they were in need of help or were receiving innappropriate help or self-medicating. (I do believe that even the coroner who received the body parts was ill)  Mr. Treadwell exhibited obviously rapid mood cycling, rages, delusional thinking and grandiose thinking.

  This film was truly maddening to me on several levels.  First, by no means should this man ever be called a naturalist or any sort of Grizzly expert.  Mr. Treadwell was so severely mentally ill that his narcissism could not allow him to think of anyone but himself, let alone a bear in a federally protected reserve. Second, I am personally  saddened that this obviously very bright man with great human potential(as it seems all with mental illness have)never seemed to receive (or possibly accept) good mental health care.  I believe there was a mention of some meds including anti-depressants but it was in passing.(anti-depressants being the very worst thing he could have done-this man was in desperate need of good mood-stabilizers  I understand that this film needed to be couched as a film about Grizzlies by the film makers and the media in order to,in a way, shock the audience when they see what really unfolds-I suppose this does bring about great film rewards and honors...as this film should receive. Thirdly, I must say even though I fully understand that Mr. Treadwell was severely ill I do have anger towards him for getting his girlfriend in the situation he did.  Of course I have no idea of the complexity of the relationship between them(the film makers do keep this very curiously underdeveloped) but I believe Mr. Treadwell despite his issues could have and should have kept this woman safe.  I believe this man committed suicide by Grizzly and was planning it for quite a time hence my disdain for this action that led to her death by mauling.

  In conclusion, this very great film should be required viewing by all mental health care professionals especially if they have interest in identifying and helping children and adults with mood instabilities.  Environmentalists and Naturalists beware; this film will anger and possibly disgust you, as it should.

Brad