I'm a big fan of most things Star Wars.  I loved the original triology, I liked Revenge of the Sith, would give a nod to episode II and a shrug for episode I.  The Star Wars novels are hit and miss (The Thrawn Triology is the hallmark of any SW novel series), and the comic books are generally amazing.  When it comes to The Clone Wars microseries which preceeded the CG version currently running I was at a loss.  The microseries delivered action at a steady, relentless pace which eclipsed much of the story line and left little to no room for character development.  In regards to the action it is very over the top and unbvelievable even for Star Wars.  If the Jedi were truely capable of the feats shown in the microseries the war would have ended at Geonosis or Mace Windu would have killed Palpatine during their confrontation on Coruscant.  Anyway I'm sure your wondering where my review for the Clone Wars CG Animated series is... well its right here.
The Clone Wars is awesome.  When it comes to cartoons I believe the Japanese are the best and I was delighted to learn that the style in which this series is portrayed was inspired by Japanese anime.  The animation does not degrade the action and lightsaber battles are as breathtaking as ever.  The characters actually resemble the actors who portrayed them in the movies and that is a testement to the talent Lucasfilms has working for it.
When I started watching the series I expected poor dialogue and no character development but I was proven wrong.  The dialogue is good, all though "I have a bad feeling about this," needs a rest as it is used at least once or twice per episode.  I actually found myself laughing at the character's remarks and even thinking that a few lines were witty.  To get to the point no one feels out of character when their speaking.  The voice acting is good and only gets better as the series goes on.  The voice actors really capture the essence of their characters, especially Count Dokku and Chancellor Palpatine/Darth Sidious.
Right from the start you get the impression that this is a character driven story which is my favorite kind.  Obiwan is still the calm Jedi Master and Anakan now a Jedi Knight excersises his new authority as a General by disobeying orders because he can.  A great new development for Anakin's character is the addition of his new padawan, Ashoka Tano.  Put simply Ashoka embodies Anakin as a padawan, she is defient, headstrong, a Jedi with seemingly limitless potential, but above all she forms connections.  Ashoka like Anakin understands the Jedi beliefs about forming connections but finds herself unable to not care about her new Master.  In little time at all Anakan finds himself attached to Ashoka as the series progresses and the question is asked can he let her go when the time comes?  Another interesting character is the clone Captain Rex.  Rex represents the clone soldier on the field of battle.  He is loyal to the Republic and the Jedi Generals he serves but he is not a mindless automaton.  Rex has a personality that comes out through the progression of the story.  He looks out for the men under his command and believes that the mark of a good commander is experience.
So all in all The Clone Wars is a great series.  It embodies what Star Wars should be and while it might seem like a show for children it evolves to appeal for all ages.  I'm 22 and can't get enough this show.  So when you watch this series don't let it go right away if your feeling meh, give it time and you'll change your mind.  Like all things this show needs some time to warm up and when it does get ready for Star Wars as it should be.