Like some of the other reviewers I happened across this movie thinking it was the BBC version (which I love) and was instantly and immediately prejudiced against any modern retelling of Pride & Prejudice.  Jane Austen is my favorite writer, and the only reason I can forgive the Clueless treatment of Emma is because it sparked a Jane Austen revival and 3 pretty good and 2 excellent Jane Austen films.

Like Elizabeth herself when she first reads Darcy's letter, I viewed everything with strong prejudice, but slowly I overcame my dislike and ended up enjoying it immensely.  I've seen it three or four times now, and while it is not a great film in the sense that Austen's novels are great novels, it is thoroughly enjoyable.  It's one of those movies that is just plain old fun.

In addition this is a very unusual movie.  How many films have been made in the last twenty years that treat religion not as a horrible tragic delusion or even as an understandable psychological phenomenon, but rather as a simple fact of life that informs everything we do?  In that sense it's more 'true to life' than almost anything I've seen recently.  I am a Mormon, but we aren't the only religious people around.  I've traveled all around the country, and from what I've seen this view of religion as central to how we live is certainly not unique to Mormons or Utah.

Since Hollywood lives in its own microcosmic innerverse, the decision-makers there don't really know and certainly distrust anything that isn't cynical.  Watching a film that never even approaches cynicism is so refreshing I just had to do it again. And again.

For all the Jane Austen purists, consider this.  If a few dozen or even hundred teenagers suddenly become interested in Jane Austen because of this film, and read her novels, is that a net gain or loss for the world?

And finally, imagine the astonishment at seeing five girls tubing down the river in ONE-PIECE bathing suits.  Miraculous, I know, that such a movie ever got made.  Too it was almost mind-boggling to see young women dressed in modern clothing behaving almost...ladylike.  I don't care what the purists say, I would like this movie to set the Mississippi, Potomac, and even the Thames on fire.