I never ever read of or herd of Sin City, until I saw the comercial.  My friend tho', he wouldn't stop whinning about how much this movie was gonna suck because the men who directed Once upon a time in mexico, and Kill Bill were gonna screw it up, and that Frank Miller was nuts even considering to work with them.  But when the movie shut him up, he wouldn't shut up about, you gotta see this movie.  So I checked it out.

Hartigan(Bruce Willis), a man sworn to protect the law, and a little girl, Marv(Mickey Rourke), a man who want's the one responsible for his only true love, and Dwight(Clive Owen)a man who has a reason for going to Old Town, are all the 3 main focuses on Sin City.  When things go wrong for the situations that happened for these 3 guys, they a;ways have that matality to prove that they're still worth a d@mn, but will it be enough to get them out of the situations they are deeply into?

I love the movie's feel for bringing the comic book to life.  I only saw pages of the comic on the movie, but it just feels so much like a comic book.  I mean, this is nearly true comic brought to life.  The black and white CGI fast paced cartoon feel is definitly a upside to this film.  It also contains comic humor, like Jackie Boy's(Benicio Del Toro) slow yet utterly rediculas death, when Marv dragged a guy on the street by his car while driving, and Miho(Devon Aoki) throwing a shrukien that looks like something that will upset a certain group of people.  And the cool dialouge is also another factor that makes it stylish, and my personal favorite cones from Marv:"The hell I send him too must seem like heaven after I'm through with him."

Sin City is definitly a comic book brought to life.  My whining friend instantly fell in love with it.  He ownes all covers, and s trying to grab every poster made.  Me, I'm just glad I got the oppertunity to see such a fine crime-drama action comic style movie like this, and have enough money at the time to buy it.  I like this more than Spider-Man 2, The Crow, but it's hard to choose between this and Batman Begins.  But anyone interested in the Crime/Drama action or Frank Miller's Graphic Novels should definitly check this out.  Whenever Sin City 2 comes out, I'll definitly be anticipating it.

Peace