This CG-animated Walt Disney Pictures feature was sort of lost in the shuffle of a very, very crowded movie year, so I'm hoping it gets discovered on DVD. It's well worth discovering. The movie trailers really couldn't do it justice, because the story is much more than a wacky adventure. It has a lot of heart and, as you can discover from the supplemental materials, it is a very personal story from its director, Stephen Anderson.

Meet the Robinsons is based on A Day With Wilbur Robinson by William Joyce, who also was responsible for the quirky yet lovable Roly Poly Olie series for Playhouse Disney. Visually you'll spot some similarities but on a much larger scale.

In a sea of animated features that exploit "sure-fire" celebrity voices and "short-cut" pop tunes, Meet the Robinsons uses a cast of less recognizable name talent (with one major exception which is discussed on the commentary) and songs that are largely created for the film, not by flash in the pan pop tarts, but by unique performers like Rufus Wainwright, Jamie Cullum and Rob Thomas (see my CD review for more info).
It is precisely this less typical approach that makes the film achieve its singular vision, a rarity these days. Even though the plot is serpentine, it never really veers from the theme of belonging and "moving forward." Reportedly, many interfering hands tried to mess with the film before John Lassiter told Anderson to follow his own vision. Unheard of in this day and age of multi-meddling!

The DVD features a great commentary by Anderson, who really tries hard to give others credit (also a rarity). A genuinely funny side feature of the commentary is the "break-ins" by Bowler Hat Guy, who tries to do his own ridiculous commentary (and is also voiced by Anderson). There are lots of interesting tidbits revealed, including how they used two young actors to play Lewis because the first actor's voice changed.

Anderson also introduces deleted scenes and appears in a nice "making of" section. Also nice is that Walt Disney is rightly acknowledged, both in the final quote of the film, and in the "Inventions That Shaped the World" feature. Tweens can watch two music videos that popped up frequently on Disney Channel earlier this year, and kids can play two games.