I'm not to big a fan of "comedies" these days.  In fact, I've pretty much stopped seeing comedies.  Every day there is a new one that comes out, filled with sex, poop and fart jokes (American Pie, and movies such as that).  Those movies disgust me, and I can't stand them.  However, once in awhile a great comedy comes along that I truly enjoy, and most recently this movie was Hot Fuzz.

Lets start off by saying that this movie is literally my favorite comedy of all time.  There's no question.  Also up there with my favorites is Shaun of the Dead, made by the same guys.  This movie is so witty and smart that I was blown away.  It's not one of those where some guy farts and everyone laughs, not at all.  You have to actually listen to what they say and what they show, and everything that is said or shown is played upon later in the film.  It's just incredible.

The acting is top notch, and Simon Pegg as a super-serious constable is flawless.  Nick Frost as his action-movie junky partner is equally impressive.  Besides the acting, the actual movie making and technology is quite astonishing for a comedy. It's seamless.  The action scenes are top-notch, making this not only a parody, but an action movie all in it's own. During these scenes, countless references are made to other defining action movies, most noticeably Bad Boys II and Point Break.  I could not stop laughing at a point when Frost shot his gun up in the air, instead of at his father, a scene straight from Point Break.

Everything in this movie is funny, and even when they are pretending to be serious, you just have to bust out laughing. This comedy is truly a work of art, and it propels itself far out in front of any other than I've ever seen. There are even some obvious "lets act stupid" jokes for those who aren't into analyzing movies, but they are well done and don't ruin the movies intelligence at all.

Again, this movie is considered a parody, but is a fine action movie itself. If you absolutely don't feel like thinking when laughing, then this is still a solid action flick wit hardcore action.  I highly recommend this movie for everyone (not children, of course), although a fair amount of pop-culture knowledge is needed to get many of the jokes. Regardless, this movie is a classic.  See it for sure, whether that means buying or renting, just see it.  Can't wait to see whats next for this movie-making team.