My son (20 months and not hearing impaired) was first drawn to Rachel Coleman on Nick Jr. He especially loves her song, In a House. His favorite part of the song was when she points at herself and says me, me, me.  He would point to himself and say my, my, my.  After doing some research it seemed that particular DVD was not available so I ordered this one, Signing Time, Volume 1.  I debated on getting the one for babies but since he would be turning two in a few months thought this would be a better investment.  I really bought it for the songs but, oh my, he is in love with everything about this DVD.  I ordered it and the first time he saw it was when we were going on a 12-hour trip to Florida.  He was never interested in TV at all until he was about 14 months old and I want to make sure he doesn't turn into a couch potato and watch TOO much TV so I was against having a DVD system installed in our car.  However, knowing how impatient he is and all the drama that comes with that, I agreed to let me husband have one installed right before our trip.  My son first saw this DVD on this long drive and it is amazing we didn't wear this DVD out coming and going!  He begs for "Meme" all the time.  He thinks that is Rachel's name as in her song, "In a House", she says me, me, me.  Everytime she appears on the screen he beams and says Meme, Meme, Meme.  And he was learning the new words and signs amazingly fast!  I could not believe it!  I lost count of how many times I bribed him when he was having a pre-terrible two meltdown that we were getting ready to get in the car and go see Meme.  It would distract him and he would be ready to ride in the car, something he has always hated to do!  I'm hoping to add to the collection.  I did think the DVD's were kind of pricey but I have to say so far this one DVD has been a great investment.  Her website states that signing can actually help with the terrible twos and I do think it is worth a try!  He has been so proud of learning the signs.  It is so cute!  And I think Leah and Alex are just adorable!  The songs are stuck in my brain but thankfully the songs and other parts of the DVD are not annoying like some cartoons.  And I haven't minded seeing/hearing it over and over, which is surprising since once I see a movie, I am not one to normally care to watch it again.  It is very enjoyable.  Can't say enough great things about it. My only regret is that I did not know about this when he was much younger. He has always been a high-needs baby and I think this could have possibly been helpful as young as four months or so. Thankful for it now though.  My husband even likes it and has learned some signs!  Fun for the entire family. :-)