Branagh combines the best with the best.  Shakespeare's brilliant writing is combined with Branagh's brilliant directing, and cinematography; and Doyle's superb music is combined with the superb acting of Derek Jacobi, Kenneth Branagh, Brian Blessed, Paul Scofield, and Christoher Ravenscroft to make this history come alive on the screen. 
If you don't know the play, this production will introduce you to one of the most inspiring of Shakespeare's histories, Henry V.  It is a story of a warrior king, who initially appears to be manipulated by 2 clergy (Canterbury and Ely) into asserting England's claim on France.  As the story unfolds, it becomes uncertain as to who has manipulated whom.  Perhaps, Henry, the pious king, needs the blessing of the church; perhaps, Henry, the clever king needs the financial backing of the church; perhaps Henry, the politician, needs a scapegoat if things don't go well.  
He hardly seems weak, manipulated, and reluctant as he delivers the Stint Crispin's day speech.before the battle of Agincourt.  His 12,000 men are outnumbered 5 to one; they are tired, and face fresh French troops on the morrow and Shakespeare has King Hal say.
"We few, we happy few, we band of brothers For he today that sheds his blood with me Shall be my brother; be he ne'er so vile This day shall gentle his condition And gentlemen in England, now abed Shall think themselves accurs'd they were not here And hold their manhoods cheap while any speaks
That fought with us upon Saint Crispin's day."
The battle that ensues is as bloody and confusing as D-Day.  No one is sure who has won the day until the herald, Montjoy, approaches King Henry to request a truce so that the French claim their 10,000 dead.  The English have lost only 500.  
I think that Shakespeare is always about character.  This is what can make us care about a long dead king whose triumphs did not extend beyond his reign.  It can make us tune in a 20th century ear to a beautiful speech pattern that is long gone.  And, when Shakespeare is brought together with the considerable talents of the film makers involved in this Henry V, it is genius in motion.