I think that one thing many of the reviewers haven't caught is this movie was released the same year as Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid. In a strange way this movie is almost a dark sequel to that other movie - also  one of my favorites. In Butch and Sundance one has a story which is also  about changing times but it's cloaked in a romantic viewpoint. The two  characters are having a ball and the viewer is along for the ride - also  having fun. The grungier aspects of living on the other side of the law are  mostly glossed over. Butch and Sundance are just a couple good old  anti-establishment boys. In the Wild Bunch one gets a story of what might  of happened had the Wild Bunch survived well into the Twentieth Century.  Now the good times are few and far between. The "Establishment"  is huge and crushing. Life is changing rapidly and the outlaws code of  ethics are outmoded. In contrast the "possee" on the Wild Bunch's  trail are nothing but psychotic vultures, caring only about the reward and  lotting the personal effects of the men they kill. In other words they are  modern. Personally I find the restored footage to be a godsend to the  movie. Without it the men have absolutely no reson or motivation for their  actions. The movie really is a pointless exercise in violence and nobody  has any admirable characteristics. I'm sorry but Sam Peckinpah didn't do  those kind of stories. He wasn't a nihlistic filmmaker. As far as the last  battle where the four characters absorb a terrific amount of bullets and  all their opponents go down after being hit once I believe the director was  making a point. Those men have made a concious decision to end their lives,  but not before they take as many with them as they can. The general's men  have no such motivation. They are an army of predators. At the end the Wild  bunch are heros - tarnished heros certainly, but heros. All in all I find  this movie gets better as I get older. Like The Outlaw Josey Wales I have  come to appreciate it more as the years go by. On the other hand I find Van  Damme and Segal's movies to be increasingly tiresome. Those movies are  nothing but comicbooks. The Wild Bunch is totally different.