A deserted parking garage.  A young woman working late.  A sociopathic parking attendant.  Put these three elements together and you have one chilling horror flick that is just a bit too real for comfort.

Who among us has never felt that slight prickling of fear when you suddenly realize you are alone in a darkened garage - just enough trepidation to cause you to pick up your gait a bit as you hurry to the imagined safety of your car?

Working late Christmas Eve, Angela rushes to her car as she tries to salvage what is left of a holiday evening with her family.  One thing after another happens, and poor Angela is stranded in a locked building, her only companion a slightly creepy parking attendant, Tom.

But Tom is more than slightly creepy - he is a veritable lunatic, and he has set his sights on Angela.  Soon Angela's situation turns dire as she finds herself not only stranded, but in a battle for her very life as Tom gives full reign to his madness.

Although she is used to being taken advantage of in her day-to-day life, both in business and her personal life, when the chips are down Angela is no one's victim, and she does whatever it takes to stay alive.

While `P2' is fairly predictable in its plot, it doesn't lessen the effectiveness of it, not one whit.  You'll still jump in your seat at each new heinous act the villainous Tom commits.  Predictable it may be, but this is one undeniably entertaining film.

What I liked best about `P2' is that there is some logic to the plot.  I cannot abide horror films that expect a suspension of disbelief without supporting the unbelievable aspects of the story, such as a killer who seemingly can't be killed.  Such is not the case with `P2'.  Every action, every reaction is grounded in reality.  I can imagine this actually occurring.  While Tom may be two steps ahead of Angela through most of the film, he is definitely not indestructible, and Angela soon turns the tide against him.

Add to that a heroine who never once suffers from the `too-stupid-to-live' syndrome, but instead grabs hold of her destiny with both handcuffed hands and wrests her freedom from the man who would take both her liberty and her life, and you have my kind of movie.

I have to say, having watched `P2', I am very grateful I don't have to park in a parking garage very often.  I have a feeling that I will not be at ease in one for quite some time.