"Moribito" is a beautiful fantasy series with many mature overtones.  But one needs to approach this knowing what they are getting into.

FOR PARENTS AND OTHER CONCERNED FOLKS...
There really isn't much swearing...I honestly can't remember any.  So that area's pretty much safe.  Also, absolutely no fanservice (amazing, right? haha).  In fact, the few "hot springs" scenes that exist aren't troubling at all.  They are very serious and add to the plot progression/character expansion.  Also, the ladies wear some kind of full body gown.  So there's nothing to worry about concerning visual content.  The violence is not many, but what exists isn't very gratuitous...while remaining very artistic and dramatic...and very important for the plot and story telling.

MOVING ON...

PLOT (ABSOLUTELY NO SPOILERS):
When I first purchased this, I was looking for more of an action series.  It was definitely very different than what I expected.  One best enjoys when they realize that they will be watching a drama, not a pure adrenaline-action flick.  After getting past the "shock" that this wasn't what I was expecting, I found this to be a very engaging and beautiful work...no regrets.  The pacing is purposely slow, but always progressing and no time is ever really wasted.  In fact, even the fight sequences are emotional at times, and their own narratives in of themselves.  Everything is virtually counted towards the story.  I also loved how the story wasn't very one sided (meaning seen by one group or person entirely), but all the events were seen and experienced by multiple perspectives and angles.  Each was completely independent while still influencing/complimenting the decisions and situations of the others (and because of this, you really got to know many of the characters from all sides).  The characters, themselves, are very believable and realistic...and very relatable.  You can tell how much thought and refining went into the background and psyche of each character (stated and unstated).

ANIMATION/PRODUCTION STYLE:
Rarely do I find a need to comment on animation/production style.  But, the world that is drawn and depicted in "Moribito" is simply beautiful and stunning.  This isn't pop-anime style like "Full Metal Alchemist", "Naruto" or "Inuyasha".  Rather, it's a very cinematic and full animation style.  The world is vibrant and full of color, while still being very natural and real in look.  The use of light and shading is subtle, but greatly influences the mood.  Also, the characters have many subtle details about them that help maintain the realism.  Also, the characters are naturally proportioned with no real exaggerations...while still being visually attractive and amusing.  Simply put, it leans towards the more mature and serious style of animation...and it does it with class.  The crew really put some love and care into this project.

SUB VERSUS DUB:
When dealing with foreign films that have options for dubs, I often enjoy trying out both.  I've found some shows that Subs seem to fit better, and some Dubs that are simply brilliant.  In the case of "Moribito", it's dub is quite phenomenal and fitting.  The script is natural and smart.  The voices they chose not only matched the characters, but they were very expressive...and very complimentary to the visuals.  I definitely prefer the dub.

PACKAGING:
The set consists of 8 discs.  It's all contained in a single DVD case that is roughly the size of two standard single-DVD cases combined.  The discs are pretty safe and secure from my experience, however, some may still be a little concerned that all 8 discs are stacked on top of each other with nothing dividing them.  I was concerned, too.  But I've had it for quite a couple years now and haven't really gotten scratches.  This is probably because there are notches, as well as surrounding walls, that keeps the discs from moving.  So unless you have some strange penchant for spinning your discs hard against each other in a DVD case, they should be alright.

ALL IN ALL...
This is a slow but very good animated series.  Many good lessons and a complexed yet simple narrative.  Good plot development and character growth.  Beautiful fight sequences that help move the story is also a plus.  The lore is captivating and the world is simply stunning.  It's not for everyone, definitely one worth risking a chance to see if it is for you :-)