I love both Dustin Hoffman and Emma Thompson and was very happy to see them in a quirky romance together.  It was a nice little film perfect for snuggling on the couch with a big bowl of popcorn and relaxing with before bed.  It had just enough romance and heartache to interest the girls and enough laughs to keep the guys awake.

It is as someone said previously very formulaic.  I guessed what was going to happen in one scene before it did (read too many screenwriter books dear?) and completely astonished my spouse and son with my prescient announcement of the plot point that would impact the relationship of the charming couple.

Harvey is a jingle writer in New York who is so busy in the advertising business that he is anxious about leaving for London for his daughter's wedding.  Kate is a lonely manager of a group of Marketers at Heathrow airport interviewing travelers as they arrive (I did this at Graceland once for a few extra bucks it isn't fun).  The two meet incidentally as a harried Harvey arrives and Kate is rebuffed by him.

Harvey arrives and finds his ex wife has hidden him off far away for he is somewhat of a selfish boor.  He meets his daughter and we can tell he loves her but seems to put business first.  After a series of embarrassments he decides he will leave right after the wedding.

Kate lives alone and is constantly harassed by her mother who needs a lot of attention (there is a comic subplot between the mom and a neighbor) and is constantly fixed up with blind dates by her coworkers.  She is very lonely but afraid of being hurt.

The two meet in the airport bar when Harvey misses his flight back to New York and will have to spend another day in the UK.  They strike up a conversation and find a mutual respect for one another.  Harvey too is lonely and depressed and decides to spend the day with her.

The rest of the story is fairly predictable yet I believe you will enjoy how Kate helps Harvey reconcile with his family and his dreams and how Harvey helps Kate overcome her loneliness and fears.