Rosalba, acted convincingly by Licia Maglietta, gets left off the tour bus that is taking her husband and two sons home from vacation. After her first moments of dismay, she begins to enjoy her brief intermission from family cares and impulsively decides to take a 'vacation' alone in Venice. That 'vacation' quirkily evolves into a 'runaway' scenario. If there had been pictures of  'missing persons' on milk cartons in Italy in 2000, Rosalba's would have appeared among them. She's no teenager, however, just an ordinary repressed not-quite-glamorous middle-aged wife, whose husband takes her (and his mistress) for granted. Rosalba meets people in Venice, attachments development, choices will need to be made ...

This is quite a funny film, as zany as a Fellini flick but considerably less pretentious and evasive. It's not "la Dolce Vita" by any means, though that's the image the promotion sought. Actually it's a heart-warming love story shaken into a hilarious satire of Italian culture and behavior, like a squirt of vermouth into a gin martini. If anyone but an Italian had produced and directed such a sharp satire of "comportamento italiano", the Sons of Columbus would surely have picketed the theaters. Rosalba is hopelessly butter-fingered; her dropping and breaking of trivial objects is used, delicately, as an opener for significant scenes and, I suppose, as a symbol of her dilemma. The supporting characters in the film are indeed bizarre enough for Fellini but they're not treated as existential freaks. The film is kind to human foibles.

In Venice, Rosalba is befriended by a elderly waiter who gloomily provides her with a couch to sleep on for a night. The waiter is an Icelander who has lived in Venice much of his life, who somehow has acquired the name 'Girasole' - Sunflower - a ponderously depressed man at the verge of suicide, portrayed brilliantly by the German actor Bruno Ganz. Subtitles probably fail to convey the peculiarity of Girasole's accent in Italian, which is hilarious not so much for his vowels and consonants but for outlandish vocabulary and syntax, half cinema and half archaic, absorbed from reading the 16th C epic poem "Orlando Furioso" by Ludovico Ariosto. Ganz nails this role perfectly, and his performance is especially funny for me, since his Italian and mine must sound very similar. Like Girasole, I mash together the Italian I've learned from Baroque operas with th Italian I've picked up from the streets of Roma.

"Pane e Tulipani" won nine 'Donatellos' -- the Italian equivalent of Oscars -- in 2000, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actress and Best Actor. I'd say that the Donatello voters showed finer taste than the Oscar voters commonly do.