This is one of those movies that, in all honesty, I should've liked a lot more. First it confirms everyone's suspicions: Woody Harrelson is an outstanding actor. Second: it dares to be different, and has a bold and unique message. Third: It's got a stellar cast featuring Robert Downey Jr., Tommy Lee Jones, Tom Seizmore and Rodney Dangerfield to name a few.

Often times though when you give the audience everything they want they're not left wanting more, and if you give them too much, some has to be sent back. This is the case with Natural Born Killers. The movie spreads itself a little thin, and even drags in a lot of places it could've used more effectively. Perhaps they could've even added *gasp* more violence.

One thing I wish Oliver Stone and Tarantino would've done is make this a trilogy which each Act getting it's own feature length film. Compacting all they had into one film absolutely killed any and all character development. For example when RDJ calls his wife and girlfriend from prison the whole scene comes out of nowhere, and just ends up being throwaway nonsense. Robert Downey Jr. and Tommy Lee Jones present two of the films most interesting characters with zero emotional impact on the film. The Warden could've never spoken and the entire movie wouldn't have changed one iota. I also didn't care for the quick turn arounds most of these characters had. Even the two main characters, as fun as they were, were not developed to the extent they could've been.

Tommy Lee Jones could've been as memorable as Nurse Ratchet, but we never actually see him be the 'big bad Warden', he just talks about it incidentally in the hall. I personally would've loved to see a whole film about Harrelson and Lewis' time in prison. Dealing with Tommy Lee Jones, taking crap from him until finally taking over the prison.

Rodney Dangerfield has similar treatment. The whole sitcom satire at the beginning is outstanding, but it comes off like an SNL skit in the middle of a movie. Over before it starts.

The is just overcooked, so much greatness and so little time.