My star review is based on this Blu-ray, not the film.

I did NOT notice the audio syncing problems that others have commented on.  I'm thinking that might possibly be a problem with specific players (older ones?) playing the disc.  Don't know - all I know is no syncing issues jumped out at me.

What I do know is this Blu-ray has:

1) Poor picture quality. Perhaps it is because I just recently watched the Sound of Music Blu-ray which was STELLAR, but from the opening scene of this I was VERY disappointed in the picture quality.  Very heavy pixelation.  Honestly it looks like they didn't remaster at all and just tried to plop the source material into HD without any kind of help for such an old film.  I really am thinking that's pretty much what they did.  The colors were alright, and there were some scenes where you could clearly tell that this was indeed HD.  But unlike The Sound of Music, those scenes were few and far between.

2) Poor audio mix and options.  This thing comes with a 7.1 DTS-HD mix and that's the only English audio option available (minus the commentary of course).  Maybe if you have a 5.1 or 7.1 setup, it sounds great (others have seemed to imply it does).  I watched with a Stereo setup and I can tell you that this 7.1 mix does NOT downmix very well to 2 channel stereo.  Again, unlike The Sound of Music, which did do so nearly flawlessly, this one didn't.  It sounds like they moved a lot of stuff at least partially into other channels that you don't really hear very well because they didn't appropriately mix them in the main L/R channels.  The levels themselves are also really soft (I had to crank my volume WAY up) to even be able to listen.  I like Blu-rays to have lossless 5.1 or 7.1 mixes, but if they're not going to ensure it also sounds decent in stereo, then they need to include a different audio option (i.e. Dolby 2ch) that does.

3) A non-common type menu.  Doesn't use the standard type interactive menu we've all grown used to, but rather a text-only "pop up" menu.  For the life of me, I couldn't figure out how to get to the menu to access the special features - the "menu" button on my remote did nothing and the disc instantly starts playing the film when it is inserted.  After some searching online, I discovered it uses a "pop up" menu.  I did see a "title/pop up" button on my remote (far away from the menu/navigation buttons) and when I pushed it, low and behold, a menu did indeed pop up where I could access the special features.  Clearly the pop-up menu option is a way for disc manufacturers to avoid the expense of having to create those full-color, custom interactive menus, but can instead just program these text-only pop-up menus to jump to features on the disc.  Fine by me, but it would be very helpful if they would bother TELLING YOU on the packaging that it is a "pop up" menu that requires accessing it in a different way, especially since most people are not even remotely familiar with this.  I know out of the Blu-ray's I own, it is my first experience with it.  Before realizing what was up, I was frustrated - frustrated enough to look into returning the disc!  Given that's what I did (and I'm actually a "techie"), I would expect this mistake alone to lead to people unnecessarily returning these discs and costing the manufacturer serious money.  I hope they realize that.

Bottom line: I've never watched the DVD so can't comment too much on comparison between the two, but I would think it entirely possible that a person could just stick with the DVD and probably not be missing too much and possibly might even enjoy it more.