Other critics have said this is nothing compared to Goodfellas. This is the worst mafia movie from the modern era I've seen. Casting Al Pacino, who played Michael Corleone in The Godfather, in this film may have seemed like a good idea at the time, but he's so lame compared to Corleone! The Godfather is considered the best or one of the best movies of all time (according to online votes at imdb.com). It's the gold standard of mafia movies. Making Pacino the lead character for DB raises your expectations, but they aren't fulfilled, unfortunately.

Donnie Brasco is very uneven. The start is very slow and very weak. I'd rate the first half of the movie two stars and the last half three to four stars. The first half hour is slow and boring; it felt like a homemade movie. The way it was so easy for Donnie Brasco to get accepted by Pacino's character was silly. It wasn't even accurate to the history, apparently. So why did the screenwriter change the story to make it so much less credible, and far worse. Brasco spots a fake diamond and sort of beats up a guy. Let's make him part of our inner mob circle.

Through a good portion of the film, the mobsters seem more like a lame street gang than major mafia criminals. They are clowns. Later on, however, it gets really nasty and graphic with lots of blood and nasty visuals.

A glaring weakness and mistake in Donnie Brasco was how poorly it conveyed the importance of Brasco's work. At the end with the credits they tell us that Brasco was responsible for 200 indictments and 100 convictions and still has a $500,000 price on his head. Until then it seemed more like he'd taken down a few people in a little street gang of mafia wannabes.

The screenwriting was very disappointing. Paul Attanasio screwed it up. How somebody who'd written police drama for many years could f this up is unbelievable. The producers made the mistake of choosing a screenwriter whose experience was crime tv, not crime movies. This movie could have been so much better. Hopefully it will be remade one day by people who know what they are doing. A true story like Donnie Brasco deserves a five-star movie. The man is a legend with balls of steel.