It's that simple. I was completely blown away the first time I watched this dazzling film, and the second time around, it was even better. This is a modern classic, no less. Those who have seen it will never forget it. There is no other like it.

This film really screwed me up, mentally. So multi-dimensional, so profound. so sad and brilliant and full of life. So real. So. So. Real. You don't know what to feel once this movie is finished. Is it sad? Truly, it is. Is it violent? Most certainly. Is it vicious? For sure. Is it life-affirming? In subtle ways, yes. In 2 and a half hours, this movie enlightens on the human spirit unlike countless lectures that have failed to do so. When a film can enlighten you on your own existence and shake your perceptions, that is when you know for sure that true art has been conceived.

Three different plotlines are connected by a fatal car crash:

Octavio and Susanna: Octavio (Gael Garcia Bernal) is a poor young man living with his mother, his violent criminal brother Ramiro, and his brother's young wife Susanna and their baby. Octavio falls for Susanna, and in order to convince her to run away with him, enrolls Ramiro's rotweiller pooch into the bloody underworld of dogfighting. Money comes in fast, and Susanna agrees to run away with Octavio.
I will leave it at that, adding simply that Octavio's plan blows up in his face.

Valeria and Daniel: Valeria is an up and coming model who has just moved in with her boyfriend Daniel. Daniel has left his wife and daughters for Valeria, and the two have just purchased their new home. Everything seems to be a dream at first, until Valeria becomes a victim of the story's fatal car crash. Along with her deteriorating health, Valeria's beloved little dog falls into a crack in the floorboards, which  propels the relationship of Daniel and Valeria over the edge.

El Chivo: El Chivo (Emilio Echevarria) is an old bum/part-time hitman. He roams the streets with his beloved pack of dogs, his only true friends. The love he feels for them is overwhelming. It is soon revealed that El Chivo is a former guerilla who abandoned an admirable career, a wife, and a baby daughter to serve his cause. El Chivo ended up serving 20 years in prison, and he and his wife agreed that their daughter would be raised to assume that her father was dead. But memories come back to haunt El Chivo, and he strives to seek whatever small redemption he can acquire over the course of his story.

Every little thing about this movie is perfect, sublime, incredibly moving. The acting isnt acting. All the actors become the people to the extent that you feel as though these characters are your neighbors, your friends, people you know. Emilio Ecvevarria delivers a performance on par with the likes of Robert De Niro and Jack Nicholson. This actor should be a modern legend. But alas, in Hollywood, there is no place for him. Well, screw Hollywood, because I don't remember the last time that I saw Hollywood deliver a film on par, or even CLOSE to the heights of Amores Perros. The definition of a great actor is someone whose presence alone is captivating enough to take over the screen. Echevarria fits into this category by miles and miles. His performance is astounding, and his character will wrench you and haunt you for the rest of your days.

The stories and the themes, that love, in one way or another destroys, that humans and dogs share multiple parallels are all presented with vicious eloquence, if such a thing is possible, and I believe it is. The music sets the hauntingly beautiful atmosphere. Every shot serves a purpose, and the camera moves with the fierce passion of its characters.

A masterpiece. A film for the ages.