"Do what you want to do" was cavalry scout Hondo Lane's philosophy of life for dealing with people. Lane (John Wayne)held to the notion that showing was better than telling where human interactions were involved, and that lessons learned first hand tended to stay with you longer than did advice given.

Hence he'd give up telling a boy (Lee Aaker...later "Corporal Rusty" to tv's Rin Tin Tin) not to try petting a feral dog and let him "do what he wanted to do". He did, and he got bit. And learned his lesson. Lane figured if you did what you wanted, you'd either end up right or wrong. If you ended up right, good for you. If you came up wrong you took the consequences, learned the lesson (hopefully), and wouldn't make the same kind of mistake again. A bit of a spin on Nietsche's "That which does not kill you makes you strong" philosophy.

  A tough philosophy, but one that would serve one well in the

1880s desert southwest during the violent Apache wars.

  This film is one I have long adored, but haven't seen in many years until this new DVD release from Paramount. I remember when I saw it first, where I saw it first, and under what circumstances. Saw it as a first grader when it came out in '53. My dad picked me up from school on his day off and took me to an afternoon matinee at the Plaza Theatre in Greenville, SC. I ate this movie up and, despite some of the info given out by Leonard Maltin and others on this new disc to the effect that the 3D version only showed in NY and LA and maybe one or two other big cities, I know for a FACT that I SAW it in 3D here in Joanne Woodward's home town because I was chattering for

DAYS about arrows and spears flying out at you from the screen,

and about horses almost trampling you....and weird little green and red plastic glasses you had to wear to see it. Sorry Mr. Maltin, I love you as a movie critic and I know you have good sources on your film histories...but you're just WRONG about THIS one!

  Great film this, 3D OR 2d. Great performances,great cinematography, great stunt work, great story, great dialog, and...beyond just performances...great CHEMISTRY between the principles. This is one of the best Duke westerns; right up there with Red River, the Searchers, Rio Bravo, The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, and The Shootist. As a six-year-old at it's release I carried away from it two burning images: a steely-eyed Hondo walking slowly up to an apprehensive Angie Lowe (Geraldine Page)and son at the beginning of the film, and the fatal spearing of Sam the dog by Rudy Acosta's evil Chirachaua sub-chief later on in the movie.

  Was glad that Acosta "got his" at the end, but was sorry that Vittorio(Michael Pate) died. Didn't Pate play a cowboy vampire in some B-grade horror movie? I'd swear I could put his face to such a thing. Also find it interesting that the Hondo Lane character was deemed so popular in the 1950s that Warner Brothers re-worked him a little bit and put him forth (albeit a lot less hard-edged) a few years later as "Bronco Layne"...with a "y" added...in the person of actor Ty Hardin (who looked a bit like PATRICK Wayne). And then in the 60s ABC did a straight (but short-lived) series version of Hondo starring Ralph Taeger. Okay...but NOT the Duke.

  Glad to recommend "Hondo"...the DUKE'S Hondo...to any and all fans of the western genre.