This film succeeds on several levels, the most obvious of which is comedic, which it does handily and indisputably.

However, it also raises an interesting philosophical question: Can someone really change, deep down inside? Can a glass-is-half-empty (as Phil's down-to-earth flapjack buddies posit) person become a glass-is-half-full person?

On the one hand, Phil's (a TV weather announcer played by Bill Murray) transformation from cynical, selfish and arrogant twit into his persona at the end of the film could be ascribed merely to having enough trial-and-error practice until he found the "formula" to finally, cynically, get what he wanted. Ergo, he did not change deep down inside: he just recited and fine-tuned the lines he had learned through his uncountable days of practice - just as he learned to be a piano virtuoso through the course of the film. Phil merely honed his acting skills - not his personality - while serving his sentence.

It could be argued that Phil, being locked in prison as it were, had no choice but to change for the better: the consequences for him were far more pleasant if he simply went along with the change. The same theory used for reforming criminals. And that thought, unfortunately, takes away a bit of the sheen of his redemption.

On the other hand, and it's impossible to be certain without being inside the head of the screenwriter, but perhaps the intention was that the flaws in Phil's personality were genuinely healed by his experience. By being locked (via whatever unnamed higher forces) in Punxatawney, Pennsylvania until he finally got it right - deep down inside. A true transformation. One can argue, in support of this viewpoint, that his motivation for taking music lessons grew from a sincere desire for self-improvement, rather than trying to trick others.

This film is a metaphor for the reform and improvement of the soul. And it used the thematic device of a time loop, probably to condense the idea into the time allotted for a feature film. A real life transformation is no less plausible (but most wouldn't be interesting enough to develop into a screenplay).

If you agree with that premise, then you must also agree that it is possible to reform the (not too incorrigible, anyway) criminal. That the horrible venom spouted by racist Americans at the turn of the 20th century, surrounding, and subsequent decades isn't representative of today's population. That the jerk you knew 20 years ago in college, or even 2 years ago, could have become a worthwhile member of the human race. That it is possible to genuinely change inside, for the better (and, unfortunately, accepting that, on the flip side: for the worse, given the necessary stimuli). And that this scenario can be true of an individual - or a nation.

The next time viewing the film, try and keep this idea in mind, and decide: from the standpoint of the lead character, contrived or genuine transformation? I vote that the glass is half-full.