The film begins as Eddie Morra (Bradley Cooper) is about to jump off the balcony of his very expensive and tightly secured living quarters. He begins to describe what led him to this extreme situation. The audience returns to when Morra's life has reached the bottom.
Morra is a slacker trying to write a novel while drinking and being lazy. He loses his girlfriend, Lindy (Abbie Cornish), because she cannot take anymore of his behavior and laziness.
Morra was a former drug addict with an ex-wife who has a shady brother. Morra is vulnerable and willing to try anything, except self motivation, to improve his personal and professional life.
He takes a pill from his ex-brother-in-law. The drug allows one to access 100 percent of the brain. Now Morra can remember everything in his past from when he just glanced at documents to personal experiences.
He has the ability to comprehend information in a short period of time. With this new pill, life exceeds one's wildest dreams.
The pill is NZT, and it is to be taken once a day. Obviously, the drug is not FDA approved, so some very serious consequences happen from taking it.
Suddenly Morra, who does not know how to fight and is a mild mannered individual, becomes a person with exceptional mental powers. With his confidence and new found intellect, he begins to climb the ladder of success.
He completes his novel in four days. Before the pill he did not have one word written. The audience takes this trip with Morra as he runs the gauntlet of successes, and repercussions from the drug. Of course, along with taking the drug side effects begin to emerge.
Morra meets Carl Van Loon (Robert De Niro). Loon is a tough business man who is trying to negotiate a business deal with a large corporation. He sees the potential within Morra, so he begins to test his skills.
With all of the drugs people are taking today to sleep, wakeup, relieve pain, overcome depression, feel good, feel bad, and generally go through everyday activities, the pill Morra takes covers everything. However, do not get to excited, it has some very serious side effects.
Life always has its downside. Morra has problems with Russian bad guys, street gangs, and a mysterious lone assailant. Not to mention memory loss from the side effects of NZT.
The film is based on the book entitled The Dark Fields by Alan Glynn. It does have some very dark moments. One scene in particular demonstrates what a person will do in order to stay alive. Traveling in a dark field can be very dangerous. Not knowing what will happen next is an uncomfortable feeling.
However, for the audience it is entertaining and suspenseful. I recommend this film for anyone interested in watching an engaging and original story.
The audience takes the trip with Morra through some very precious moments. Lessons about drugs and how to handle success are dispersed throughout the film. With tense moments and a mystery waiting to be revealed the audience can take the journey without the side effects and consequences. Just enjoy the excursion without medication, but with a plot full of surprises and tense thrills.