Why Gene? Why?
I've never watched Ray Romano's sitcom, whatever the hell it's called, and I don't intend to start. Apparently the man told a joke thirty years ago, and so has spent the past thirty years essentially telling the same joke over and over in a weary schtick that somehow parlayed into a career. Good for him. Ultimately, it even led to a film career which begins, and I'll predict ends, with MOOSEPORT.
A fantastic cast, mainly, and a moderately quirky premise could have been translated into a good, ol' fashioned screwball comedy. Gene Hackman was in the mood for one, you could tell, and some decent, inexcusably underused bit players were too. 
However, the script is bad. Just plain bad. I'm going to guess a lot of ad-libbing was allowed too, given Romano's endless blathering about, and it detracts from whatever momentum there is. Also, the direction and scene-editing displays no support for any comic timing. If you're going to open a movie with a naked man casually jogging around, and a donkey on a helicopter, you're generating a (albeit chlic&eacute;) sense of absurdity and randomness (those crazy locals, yuck yuck). A sense which totally disappears after five minutes. You gotta keep that going, especially if can't expect your dialogue alone to carry it. Also, the music is just bland sentimental stuff, which doesn't help propel the thing forward at all.
I suspect, watching some of the deleted scenes, that there was a lot more of the script that got cut, that may have given people more to do and that was maybe funny. You could tell that part of it had to do with bad dialogue, or failed improvisation. They could have cut just about anything and nobody would get lost in a plot like this, but I think that explains why it often feels so choppy. There's a rushed feeling, while at the same time the lingering on Romano's "organ monkey"-style comedy drags the thing out.
Ray Romano is an awful actor, and knows it. He tries to compensate by getting you to like him, but you don't. He's a one-trick pony, and that doesn't cut it when you're playing off Gene Hackman for two hours. Listening to him is pure Chinese water torture; madness through mindless rhythm and repitition. On the other hand, Gene, whose gotta know what a turkey this is, actually looks like he's taking an interest in the proceedings. See him in ROYAL TENENBAUMS, or even his smaller role in HEARTBREAKERS, to know what a comic genius he is. Hell, he even takes a dud like THE REPLACEMENTS and turns it into a half-decent sports comedy. 
Romano basically tries to be endearing, and profoundly fails. During his vile drunken monologue outside his girlfriend's window, for instance, there are cuts to her almost going insane with frustration, and we share her pain. Shut. Up. Already.
The townsfolk are basically wallpapering, when you could tell they wanted to do some comedy. The people in Romano's hardware shop could have been decent characters of their own very easily, but it was too much of a stretch for this script (here's where I suspect some vicious cutting took place). The clown who plays the town councilman is awful (vicious cutting needed), and much of the yokel humor of the movie is basically one or two unfunny yet repititious gags substituting as characters. 
The supporting cast is excellent. Maura Tierney is gorgeous, and a fine actress as Sally, Ray's long and inexplicably suffering girlfriend. After "News Radio," she can act circles around someone like Romano. Rip Torn, of course, is a genius, and it's great watching him and Gene together; he's perfect for what this movie could have been. Marcia Gay Harden plays Hackman's long suffering political assistant, and is fine as well. Tierney and Hardens' drinking scene could have been something classic, but it was so badly written they had to cut it. Christine Baranski is Hackman's ex-wife, the former First Lady, and she almost steals the show in an unforgivably underwritten role. Fred Savage tags along too, but the script gives him basically one joke to repeat fifty times, and he's there to be despised anyway. 
For Gene Hackman, this movie is a quick check and water off a duck's back, but Ray Romano  has already exausted any potential. The other cast members could all do something great, given the material.