The newspaper room was alive and bustling with typewriters, we got an inside look at how reporting, editing, journalism to politics works...blah, blah...and so forth, which brings up an interesting question concerning the health of U.S. democracy under re-emergent conditions of clandestine acts of war consorting with a political machine. Maybe overlooking the theft of American elections should be looked on instead as a humanitarian gesture so that America can avoid succession by assassination like that strung from Kennedy, to Nixon to Regan.  Don't ever listen to republican whining over measly office break-ins known as `Watergate'.  It is an asinine snow job if ever there was.  There is no `conspiracy' in arriving at, opening and then leaving a crime scene unprotected so people claiming to be `reporters' can carry away the evidence on a political assassin and plant any evidence they please, Bremer:  More FBI pooh-pooh.  There is no such thing as hiring muggers to do police crowd control in Manhattan in 1970.  The republican party is an illegal Class C, totalitarian organizing.  It should be hauled in and broken up before it pulls its next stunt.  It is Clear and Present Danger to national security from totalitarianism.

Copping to the lesser charge, actually came after an elaborate effort to posture innocence, when Nixon had to bluster to Flint (the FBI `deep throat' man) while Hoover's successor was away, that the detaining of Bremer should have been more brutal (even swearing for Pete's sake, gosh!).  In another instance of primate aggression, Nixon had to thank personally the lunkheads who swung crowbars and wrenches at non-rioting student protestors.  This is not a proboscis monkey who should ever have held public office, he would have looked good in stripes, somewhere with plenty of bars.  Let me tell'ya, don't ever beat that monkey in a fair election.  Not a good idea, and if you're running mate has to be from Texas (due to the way politicians get married off), never choose a man who has Mao and Saddam sized reliefs of himself in his Presidential Library.  Why poke fun at his mug handles?  Johnson didn't have to worry about `right from wrong', knowing "what `wuz' rite" saves at least half that effort.

One of the slush funded wrecking crew perpetrators intimated their non-involvement by whining about Senate investigation asking familiars if he associated with Bremer.  Always whine/deny before being put in the position of making denials. Anthropologists are not certain when planning ahead became a neocortex in those primates, but it seems to have put history in a revisionism spell; whining to steal the banana has become multi-dexterous, `five fingered' in its backward and forward directions.  Even CBS'ers `Criminal Minds' has profiled the serial killer's habit of arriving early and often at the scene of their own crime, except that the lone assailant, nut-job model seems to be the chapter on criminal law they prefer above all others.  Nixon telephoned a rather heated and timely self exoneration without skipping a beat, amazing the `deep-throat' operative Flint with a verbal lapse of decorum. Preemptive monkeyshine is about all I can call it.  Flint's in the clear, has written a book and Bob Woodward has published in 2005, titled "The Secret Man".

If that isn't good enough culpability, the FBI will take care of the more palpable actus rhesus.  I mean actus reus, the non-tangential connection to either avoidance, nonfeasance, obstruction, or crime scene, open house tampering free-for-alls:  candlestick, lead pipe, dagger, etc.  It's important to improve the profile of the covert operative at the most open invitation to do a little trash removal and apartment restoration.  Sort of perfect the identity, oh...write down a few emphatic journal entries...get rid of all the conflicting material and information aligning the agent with the political offense itinerary--Muskie.

Did you know our doctrinal separation, supposed to provide the essential element of integrity, accountability, checks and balances has conflicted the appointing of the FBI's director?  Not to mention the freaking Supreme Court Justice too!?  I'd have to laugh if I didn't own it, along with you.

In "The Secret Man", Woodward skips the mess Flint helped bury in the FBI's litter box surrounding the collusion and assistance to loot/alter the Bremer apartment crime scene investigation zone ; but in the original co-authored "All the President's men", Bernstein and Woodward do faithfully report the FBIs bungling in broad daylight with the nest of an obvious member of the slush-funded competition wrecking crew.  Poor boy Bremer seemed to be quite the traveler on his measly $1,600 tax income claim, "stalking several candidates".  We have Wikepedia the online free encyclopedia to thank for that citation on Arthur Herman Bremer; however their article blames the apartment owner for the ease of access to the press, not the FBI; Bernstein documents the FBI's arrival and then unattendence for an hour and a half--that's when rummaging was conducted by so called `reporters'.  An expense account deficit is not a `conspiracy' (in the modern airhead vulgate), it is called evidence, and it is applied all the time in courts of law.  Sorry to spoil the big revisionism on the legal entry in Blacks Law Dictionary, 8th, "Conspiracy"--a whole page of wry variations that is not a work of fiction.

Woodward telephones Flint, at that time the number two man at the FBI, (media diversion revelation since 9-11 ).  Flint won't discuss Watergate, even though they have had prior conversation about the Wallace assassination attempt.  Flint says not to call him again, meetings are arranged with an outdoor semaphore and note left in Woodward's morning paper.

In the first meeting of the Post's editors we see the demotion of the Bremer-diary story for a story about `McGovern offering the VP spot to everybody' after `The Eagleton Affair'.  Never was George Wallace mentioned. Movies distort and attempt to revise history here, with likely planted disinformation. Monetary incentive fits Bremer's apartment doctored profile.

The `Watergate'-construct in American history has and will crumble like the cheap plaster it is, similar to the Valarie Plane deception.