I've dithered over buying this movie for a long while and am glad that, in the end, I bought a used copy. The digital transfer was fine, not excellent, but that is what I expected, so my disappoint comes from the movie itself. (And nothing of value is added with the "extras" on the Warner Home Video 2007 DVD release.) It is good to have seen, especially to see what scenes and costumes were copy/pasted into Singin' in the Rain -- and there are moments of fun. But a great movie this is not. Kelly is a superb athlete and his fencing in the initial 4 musketeers battle with Richelieu's men is marvelously acrobatic (a worth heir to Doug Fairbanks Sr. in that regard), but his acting has highs and lows -- here (like with the 1948 The Pirate), he is at his hammiest. The ham works in the Singin' in the Rain ironic Don Lockwood/Cosmo Brown "path to fame" sequence and in his dance with Jerry the Mouse in Anchors Aweigh, but it works best when balanced by less over-the-top performances -- here it just gets tiresome. Kelly works too hard trying to be a much younger man (the butt wiggling while fencing and his gleeful peeping Tom schtick are beyond silly). The casting has several inspired choices (Vincent Price as Cardinal Richelieu, Van Heflin as Athos). Angela Lansbury is okay as the Queen and Lana Turner is ehhh as Milady de Winter, but, as other critics have suggested, the actors for Porthos and Aramis would have been much better cast in each other's roles. It is hard for me to separate Frank Morgan as King Louis XIII from Mr. Marvel/The Wizard in the Wizard of Oz, but that's more my problem than the film makers. June Allyson to me was insipid -- the girl-next-door roles suited her MUCH better than this woeful attempt at a costume drama (and indeed she and Lana Turner mightily resisted doing these roles, feeling themselves unsuitable).

I teach film at a university level and am always on the lookout for solid retellings of stories in a silent version, a Golden Age of Hollywood version, and a contemporary version. I had high hopes for a triple play using this Three Musketeers, but alas it simply isn't even in the ballpark with Fairbanks' silent 1921 Three Musketeers nor with Fairbanks' even better 1929 The Iron Mask. Why spend time in class with a mediocre option notable only for Gene Kelly's presence and its links with Singin' in the Rain? So in the end, for me, it was worth a watch, but ultimately a disappointment because I had hoped for so much more.