When Reichsprotektor Reinhard Heydrich was assassinated by Czech patriots in 1942, the immediate result was the liquidation of the entire village of Lidice.  Every citizen was murdered and the town itself reduced to rubble.  The enormity of this crime was not made apparent at the time, but in HANGMEN ALSO DIE, director Fritz Lang and screenwriter Bertold Brecht created a film that dramatises the essential events in a manner that suffers from some deliberately heavy acting but in no way subtracts from its incredible power.

Brian Donlevy in surely the flattest of his career sleepwalks through his role as Dr. Svoboda, the assassin.  One would think that the ethical issues of deciding whether to give himself up for execution or allowing innocent hostages to be shot should have occupied more of Donlevy's interpretation of the assassin.  Donlevy does little more than allow others to debate the need to weigh one life against hundreds of others when there are larger issues at stake.  To director Lang's credit, he allows the film to address the tricky issue of whether there can even be larger issues than human lives. Lang comes firmly down on the side that in the larger horror of war some issues of right and justice must trump the lives of those who pay for the right of others to debate these ethical dilemmas.  Walter Brennan as Professor Novotny shows the same lack of dramatic fire that afflicts Donlevy.  In fact, it becomes clear that the only characters who show any pizzazz are the Nazis.  Some critics have suggested that this disparity was the deliberate intent of Lang, whom they saw as interested more in the underlying themes of justice versus retribution than in character glorification.  The Nazis are so over the top that this gap cannot be by accident.  Alexander Granach as Gestapo Inspector Gruner and Gene Lockhart as turncoat Czaca positively revel in their nefarious machinations. I see this discrepancy more as revelatory of Lang's wish to present the Czech hostages as internal mirrors of their pacific exteriors.  And on those rare occasions when the hostages show a more direct attitude about their lot, they are quite capable of evincing a believable straightforwardness.

When the film was released in 1943, audiences knew the Nazis were evil, but evil more in the Al Capone sense than in any genocidal one. The ending in which the duplicitous Czaca is framed for Heydrich's murder implies that as bad as the Germans were their word about releasing hostages could be trusted.  History has proven otherwise.  HANGMEN ALSO DIE is a life-affirming film that shows that even during the horrors of genocide, men and women of courage could yet find the dignity to retain their humanity even as their hammy tormentors could lose theirs.