It's rare that I give a movie 5 stars, but if there were ever a film to deserve one, it's this one.  This film was up against What's Love Got to Do With It and won.  Being a woman of color, I say it was deserved.  From the moment that Ada and her daughter stepped on the beach, I realized that this Piano wasn't just an object, but an extension of the main protagonist.  It was her voice and her way of speaking.  Her husbands' unwillingness to try to understand her need for this piano only helped to broaden the wall between them.  And on that same beach, this ruffian, Baines, was able to experience Ada in a way that her husband wouldn't allow.  THAT was his advantage over Stewart.  He was able to feel her music and understood that she was inextricably linked to the piano. How else could he coerse her into making that "bargain"?  Why else would she agree to such a thing (and please, let's think beyond the "she's a hussy" thing).  Though her husband cut her off from her "voice", it was Baines who reunited her with it...but at a price.

I love the fact that no matter what Baines did, he was never able to control Ada' response to him.  Sure, he controlled what she needed most, but she was well aware that she controlled what he needed in return and used it to her advantage (See the recital scene.  Served him right.  You GO, Ada!).  So in the end he caught on, he did the right thing and gave her back her piano...He let her go.  And when he did that, SHE then decided what she needed, not by forced submission or coercion, but of her own free will (which can't be suppressed anyway).

I disagree about some people's assertion that Harvey Keitel being "miscast" in this role.  Many don't find him attractive or classically handsome, so the fact that Ada falls for this very rough looking man instead of her handsome husband seems to speak volumes to beauty being in the eye of the beholder.  Personally, I thought Keitel was extremely masculine and sexy in this movie (and no, not because of the frontal nudity).  There was nothing soft or pretty about him.  It was all rough and tumble, rugged male sensuality and I loved it.  Again, many will dislike this film because of its moral ambiguity or "preposterous" nature.  I think that a more clean version will appeal to those of a...Puritanical moral sensibility.  I find it refreshing that this movie presented the characters as not being all good or all bad.  They are just people, and that is what I relate to.