It seems royalty never goes out of style. With the recent hulabaloo over the marriage of England's Prince William to commoner Kate Middleton, I set out to re-watch one of my favorite royal films of all time: 1953's "Roman Holiday". Directed by William Wyler and starring the formidable Gregory Peck and a then-unknown ingenue named Audrey Hepburn (who would go on to win an Oscar for this, her first major role), it combines romance, adventure, and a bit of light-hearted fun in the Eternal City.

Hepburn plays Princess Ann, the heiress to the throne of an unnamed European country. After visiting several capital cities, she lands in Rome, where, after a state dinner, she has a nervous breakdown. She simply wants to be a normal person, but duty to her country will not allow it. After being sedated, she sneaks out of the embassy (before the medication can take effect) to live a few hours on her own terms.

Needless to say, the sedative eventually DOES take effect, and Ann is found sleeping on the street by an American reporter, Joe Bradley (Peck). Not quite knowing what to do with the woman, he brings her back to his apartment and lets her crash on his couch. The following morning, after over-sleeping and seeing a picture of Her Royal Highness splashed across the front page of the paper, he realizes that the woman currently sleeping in his place is a princess - and he makes a bet with his boss that he can get an exclusive story from her.

Initially, the two have opposite ideas. Ann simply wants to play hooky from her duties, and is excited when Joe decides to join her for the day. The two, accompanied by Bradley's photographer friend Irving Radovich (played by a pre-Green Acres Eddie Albert), tour Rome's most famous locations, from the Piazza di Spagna to the Coliseum to the Mouth of Truth. Along the way, they run into adventures and mishaps involving one of the city's famous scooters.

Predictably, the two develop feelings for each other. However, Ann's holiday can only last a day, so the two must figure out what will happen when the clock strikes midnight and she turns back into a princess. It's a look at the driving forces that pull people in their lives, from love to family to duty to career.

Shot in black-and-white (though restored here) and filmed on location in Rome, "Roman Holiday" is one of those films that I never seem to tire of. There's something magical about it, though whether it has to do with royalty or the fact that it shows a great look at post-World War II Italy, I'm not sure. And while, like many have said, Cary Grant may have hammed up the lead male role more, there's something soothing about knowing that Gregory Peck will work it all out in the end.