I was severly sick with the flu the first time I saw this movie.  Having a really high fever and that ever hoovering feeling of being outside your body and the combination of this movie, wow.
From the Manson girls singing at the beginning to the splices of today's youth and their propensity toward violence this movie caught my attention and dug its dirty claws into it.
I can't say that it is easy to take in or is very light hearted but I appreciate a director that can defy ego and go with their vision instead of what is going to be a blockbuster.  The scenes in this movie are so meticulous that you start to feel the characters are the real characters.  There are some scenes that are so graphic and disturbing but this is truly the way Van Bebber intended it.  We cannot gloss over the nasty parts and pretend they didn't happen.  He wanted to present the mentality of the family.  I think he achieved all that and beyond.
We cannot turn a blind eye to those gruesome details and tuck it all in a neat little package.  To truly be a part of history good or bad there will be things people want to sweep under the carpet.
Van Bebber definitely did his research.  This is a man with total passion.  I didn't have the edition with the interview the first time around.  I purchased the 2 disc special edition.  The interview with Van Bebber makes the movie so much even more amazing for me.  This man worked in fast food and sold blood to make this thing come to life.
I have more respect for Van Bebber than any of the fat cats in hollywood yelling from a chair.  He was also in the movie so he never asked his cast to do anything more disturbing or graphic than he did himself.
This is truly one of the more unique films out there.  You can tell he sealed this movie with his own essence.
A lot of people will be squirmish with the topic of Charles Manson but I think that it is important to show that people weren't under some brain washed spell of Manson.  They came to actions of collaborative effort.  Every other movie or book focuses on the evil of Manson.  Those other people are just as responsible for their own actions.  I love the way this movie puts that into perspective.