There  something I want to point out that's very relevant today about this DVD and book. This focuses on the people and party that are running our country today. Their dishonesty, hypocrisy, low morals, and their control of the mythical "liberal media".

  The fact that David Brock, who was a major co-conspirator in the Republican media wrecking crew that initially attacked Clinton during the late 90's, confessed it all was a pack of lies in his book "Blinded by the Right" and has received little to no press, is astonishing to me. It is a confessional of the highest order from one of the top GOP hatchet men and should have started the biggest political scandal since Watergate.  This is the same press that for 3 years gave us Monica, Anita, and Whitewater, night after night, yet they will not report Brock's confessional of the corruption going all the way to the Supreme Court,(Clarence Thomas) and the Bushies?

 In comparion to the present day where we just last month had a gay male prostitute(Jeff Gannon) posing as a reporter with ties to the White House(Rove? Mclellan?) that went largely ignored! Remember this is an administration that ran for re-election on an anti-gay agenda. So where is the media that hounded Clinton?
  It still amazes me that people actually believe there really is a liberal media. That so many can actually be manipulated on a platform of hate and spend millions to fund organizations to lobby against gays and the likes of a Dan Rather or Michael Moore is astonishing to me. These are simply people that may not be perfect, but are trying to keep the government in line. That is the most important thing we can hope for as people who under rule of a government that has put us trillions in debt. Yet we've let ourselves be manipulated. It's as if they've tapped into the mindset of a KKK hate era.
  The only true "liberal media"(which in today's world means a media that holds government accountable) you will find today, is either in a book, a documentary, or in Spain and Canada.  There is no television liberal media. Where is the discussion of facts? If you do not agree with the Bush cartel, you are labeled either a conspiracy theorist or unpatriotic. That is a very unhealthy state to be in as a nation.
In contrast, if you ever come across a investigative report from 1980's television news, you'll see what I'm talking about when I say journalism has lost its way. The difference is astonishing. And yet back then they only had 4 media outlets for national television news.  Check out bushflash.com once in awhile. They occasionally have an old TV report from the 80's.

This DVD reminds us of all this. $40 million of our tax money was spent on Whitewater, $65 million spent on Monica.  Yet we can't even get a story about the highest forms of corruption in this administration full of pardoned  crooks? Enron? Halliburton? Franklin Cover Up? Rev. Moon and his GOP ties? Moon and his sending millions to North Korea? Tom Feeney, Clint Curtis and the vote machine hacking of the presidential vote in Ohio and Florida?
All these have been all but ignored or covered up by the MSM.

  Wasn't it George Bush himself who said in a speech warning Saddam and his army that they had "48 hours to surrender" and that "the old Nazi excuse 'I was just following orders' won't be good enough"? It seems all of us as Americans are in the same predicament as the Germans were in the WW2. So it's time to wake up. (If you think that is a stretch, I urge you to do some research into the rise of the 3rd Reich starting with the Reichstag Fire.)

 In this video we are grimly reminded just how duped we've been by the media.
  I highly recommend people from both parties watch this video objectively to see how far we've strayed from who we are supposed to be as Americans. Smart, compassionate, methodical, and most importantly, the core of this country. We are not supposed to be wasting our energy fighting each other, but focusing on keeping any government working for us, the people, instead of their corporate interests. We should not all be a bunch of manipulated robots that are kept in fear while this administration destroys everything so they and their corporate backers can get richer and take over other countries on our taxes. They do not care at all about us.  It truly is an Orwellian nightmare.