Sometimes whenever a long string of a certain type of movie is released, the genre seems to die out. Such is the case with zombie movies. A good many years ago America was presented with zombie classic such as titles from the '... of the Dead' series (Night of the Living Dead, Dawn of the Dead, and Day of the Dead) and the more comedic monster flicks of the Evil Dead series. Lately though the genre has seemed to of faded minus a few sub par attempts to throw zombies into the mix.

Twenty five years after its original appearance we are presented with a Dawn of the Dead remake. A zombie filled, gore fest about a plethora of people who all end up in a large shopping mall after running for their lives to escape a zombie infested city. Outside of the mall waits a city full of zombies slowly progressing further into actually breaking into these few humans base and finally taking the last of the survivors alive. Amongst these stranded survivors are a hospital worker, a policeman, a salesman, a couple (the female being pregnant), mall security guards a few others thrown into the catastrophe later on.

The movie waste absolutely no time at all before kicking things into action. Withing the first ten minutes we have had our main character introduced, attacked and already on the run. As the film progresses they really give no explanation at all as to why the zombies are there and how they came about (which, in my opinion, was a wise decision considering that most monster movies hit a snag whenever trying to concoct a reason as to why things are happening). We just know that they want human flesh.

Once the movie gets going it doesn't stop until the credits are through rolling. Not only do the characters have to deal with the reoccuring threat outside of them but also the tension between themselves which also adds for another suspense element created in the movie.

Since this is a zombie flick there are no over dramatic moments in this movie and the acting isn't top quality, but rather just enough to get by (which is okay). While the characters do spend a large amount of time escaping zombies, shooting zombies and devising plans to rid themselves of zombie, there are still a few moments thrown in where we can laugh.

I had heard mixed reviews of this movie before I rented and watched it, so needless to say I went in with low expectations. I got just what I expected. I shoot 'em up movie that grabbed me and didn't let go. Considering I didn't much enjoy it's predocessor (28 Days Later), I was surpised when I found myself enjoying this movie as much as I did. Hardly ever a dull moment and a great directing job from Zack Snyder, Dawn of the Dead is a great movie to just sit down and enjoy for what it is. If you don't expect much from this movie and enjoy guns blazing and zombies being shot then this is definitely your cup of tea. Considering I haven't seen the original I can only judge this movie on it's own merrit, which is a fun one time through experience. Though the rating probably wouldn't stand as high after multiple viewings, I give Dawn of the Dead an 8/10 (or 4.5 stars).