Hungary had been for centuries an exceptional country where the Jewish people had progressively enjoyed bigger rights and security, in relative terms compared to other European countries. (See Patai, Raphael. The Jews of Hungary). The size of the Jewish population in the country both in absolute and proportional numbers was considerably large, in rural and urban areas. The strong word "emancipation", used to describe the granting of equal rights to Jews than to anyone else in the country in the second half of the Nineteenth Century, reflects how important the process of attaining full political citizenship had turned out, for a people that over the centuries had culturally been as Hungarian as all their fellow citizens. The Jews in Hungary were true Hungarians although with a different religion. Younger generations felt growingly identified with the values, history, language, institutions and, in sum, the people, of Hungary. They felt just as one part of the people of Hungary. Assimilation seemed like a natural, modern way of enjoying full social and political freedoms, including the freedoms of belief and crede.

Yet, human existence is fragile and subject to the tides of history. The collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Empire (a dual system in which Hungary had equal government status as Austria, while having the same Head of State and sharing functions like public finance, defense and foreign affairs), after the death of Emperor Franz Joseph and the defeat in World War I, brought big changes in the country. Hungary lost two thirds of its territory to newly created countries as an outcome of the Treaty of Versailles of 1919. Its economy was severely damaged. Political confussion and disorientation was widespread in the minds of Hungarians: in the two or three years after the end of the war there were a leftist coup immediatelly followed by a right-wing one. And antisemitism increased, and accelerated over the next 30 years, and turned the future of the Hungarian Jews around, preparing the stage for subsequent major attrocities under Nazism. After the end of World War II the soviet occupation of Hungary for approximately 50 years did not make things better, just changed the sign and symbols of totalitarian government.

It is in this setting that the movie Sunshine, of director Szabo, tells the stories of four generations of a Hungarian Jewish family. It is a very well researched movie, that conveys rich information on the many political and social changes that took place over approximately a century, from the late ninteen hundreds to the fall of communism in the past nineties. The production is very good. The atmosphere and interior decoration of private and public spaces, in apartments, cafes and public offices, is very accurately presented. It is also artistic in many ways. Visually it is wonderful, the script is also very good. And the performance of all actors is superb.

Substantively, the movie addresses several issues. Most notorious is the questioning of assimilation as an effective way for the Jews to attain legal, social and political safety. Also explicit, yet more subtly and less clearly because of its intrinsic spiritual nature, is the issue of how far should one take religion, nationality and obedience to a State (whatever this looks like) in one's life: extremes of too much, or too little, impede the individual to fulfill his/her human potential. One of the feminine characters expresses one should live like a wildflower, free and naturally in its own land, without that much interference from man-created systems or institutions. And, last but not least, the movie gives plenty of food for thought on the gender visions about the State,and Judaism, as men and women react differently to the succession of striking events over the period encompassed by the film. There are also very delicate reflections on how love keeps a family together particularly in difficult times, and how love can hurt at the same time, as a thorn.

You must see the movie not once but several times to fully absorb all that is in it. It doesnt matter if it is three hours long (one hour for each generation in the family, as the great-grandfather history is reduced to a few minutes as a preamble and original reference to the spirit of Sonnenshein): it is worth every minute. It speaks of course not only to Jews, but to everyone who wishes to understand the human spirit a little bit more, especially in very challenging historical moments: Sonnenshein was both a liqueur and a spirit. And the movie opens many windows to look into the history of Hungary over the last century. Not least, Budapest shines in all its beauty, from the Danube and the building of Parliament, to the Israelite graveyard in Koztma utca.

Finally, the movie is not without some controversial themes. It provides material for dellibration on the incestuous elements of culture (all cultures? Judaism in particular?), and in the same symbolic code, the rape of one culture by another. It also hits hard both sides that failed in protecting human rights during the Holocaust: the Jews who outnumbered the guards at the death camps and yet did not revolt to save themselves (as exceptionally they did in Warsaw and other Eastern European towns), and those Hungarians who perpetrated as grave abuses as the Germans acting as informants, police, soldiers and bureacrats that permitted or facilitated the annihilation of hundreds of thousands of Jews from all over Hungary; yet, the movie also registers how other Hugarians at the same time did take good care and helped their fellow Jewish Hungarians by keeping them safe in attics or by hiding their property to avoid expropriation.

I strongly recommend the movie. I found the history of my ancestors portrayed in it in many moving ways.