This miniseries is one more case of a clever sci-fi plot idea wasted by a bad development, with a dull and melodramatic script, and a mediocre acting (particularly the performance of the two main characters is lousy). Furthermore, science fiction is supposed to be based on scientific rigor with a license for logical and credible extrapolation. The scientific adviser for the miniseries must have been sleeping during the whole shooting because the list of violations of scientific laws and basic knowledge is endless.

The following is a short list of the worst inaccuracies or impossibilities: (i) a full moon that is seen simultaneously in Earth's day side (U.S.) and in the night side (Europe); (ii) the moon looks bigger from Earth's surface than from space; (iii) electro-magnetism lifting non-metallic objects; (iv) assuming an anti-gravity effect was possible, cars and people floated but small objects did not; and (v) the lousy handling of the brown dwarf physical properties, which do not follow Newton's nor Keppler's laws.

A small brown dwarf has a mass similar to Jupiter (Jupiter mass is around 320 times that of Earth) and a big one could be 80 times that, so in good faith let's assume that it was just an splinter that hit the Moon. So if this "dwarf" splinter has a mass two times that of Earth (consequently its mass will be 12 times that of the Moon) then: (i) any decent observatory would have detect it approaching because the gravity of such big mass would have affected the orbits of all planets in the Solar System; (ii) the Moon would have been completely smashed on impact and not just cracked; (iii) the Moon's orbit would have completely altered after impact, following more or less the brown dwarf original trajectory and no longer locked to the Earth; and (iv) the Earth's orbit would have been altered too, now becoming a satellite to the Moon + Brown Dwarf system.

As for the special effects their quality is poor even by a TV series standard. SFXs look like late 70s technology: some of the astronaut scenes look like the TV episodes of the original Start Trek series and the low resolution the lunar surface is a shame, I wonder if was actually a painting.

Definitively not recommended. And for the sci-fi fans I do recommend instead the novel, <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0061051128">Moonfall</a>, which has a similar Moon impact plot but more plausible (real hard science fiction).