I confess that I love this movie all out of proportion to its stature. It won't change anyone's life or give them profound insights into the human condition but, especially for people who grew up in the Sixties, it provides a perfect little picture of a time and a place and a milieu -- the dawn of the modern rock era in a typical small American city -- and it does so with spark, humor, and excellent characterization. It's fun, but it's grounded in the real lives that some of us actually led.

This new Director's Cut restores a great deal of footage. Fortunately for newcomers to the film, the original theatrical cut is also included, and it's the version that should be seen first. There really was nothing wrong with that version at all; I always thought of it as "a perfect little film."

The longer version isn't "little" any more, but it's still pretty much perfect. What's added does slow the pace of the first half of the movie considerably (undoubtedly why it was removed), and now it takes much too long for the core narrative, tracing the short but forgettable career of The (one-hit) Wonders, to get going.

But once you know the story, you won't care, and you'll love the added sequences expanding on the relationship between Guy (Tom Everett Scott) and the shallow, ambitious Tina (Charlize Theron) who sees much more of a future with a hunky dentist (Keith Neubert) than with a drummer in a rock band. The quality of the writing and acting in these and other restored scenes is fully consistent with the rest of the movie.

It's too bad there's no commentary track, but the second disc's extras are worth watching, and one of them -- The Story of the Wonders -- almost serves the function of a commentary, as Hanks and the actors talk about the backstories and personalities of their characters. Additional extras provide the usual array of making-of and behind-the-scenes footage.

Should you replace your old DVD? If this is a movie you keep coming back to, then yes, you'll want to have the Director's Cut. And for newcomers, this is now the definitive release of a movie that deserves a great deal of respect.