Victor/Victoria is easily Blake Edwards' best film.  In fact, Victor/Victoria is probably one of the top 10 best films of the 1980s.  From the lighting, to the art direction-set decoration, to the superb acting, to the screenplay, to the cinematography, and to the late Henry Mancini's remarkable score (he died in 1994), this film is the epitome of top notch and smart entertainment.
After the release of Victor/Victoria, the movie musical died, except for some of the Disney animated features released since Victor/Victoria (i.e., the Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, the Lion King).  The recent release of "Moulin Rouge" could be the beginning of a trend to bring back the movie musical with live actors.  There also appears to be a current trend for movies (and some television shows) to incorporate musical numbers for laughs (i.e., Austin Powers, some Mel Brooks movies, Will & Grace, a recent episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer).
One of the factors that made Victor/Victoria a successful musical for its time is the manner in which Blake Edwards structured and directed all of the film's musical numbers.  The "break-out-and-sing musicals" with an imaginary orchestra in the background (i.e., My Fair Lady, Sound of Music, Hello Dolly!) were already outdated when Victor/Victoria was released in 1982 (and in my opinion, I think that the "break-out-and-sing" element is what made "Evita" and "Moulin Rouge" a bit cheesy).  Blake Edwards made the right decision to incorporate all of the musical numbers as stage performances to audiences WITHIN the movie, making the movie more realistic to audiences WATCHING the film.  
All in all, the film received 7 Oscar nominations.  It only won an Oscar for Best Original Song Score.  The acting and the chemistry of the actors were superb.  In my opinion, Leslie Ann Warren (Best Supporting Actress nominee), Julie Andrews (Best Actress nominee), and the late Robert Preston (Best Supporting Actor nominee) all should have received acting Oscars.  Even Alex Karras (a former college football player who was a leading candidate for the Heisman Trophy in 1957) delivered a fantastic and funny performance as King Marchand's (played by James Garner) closeted bodyguard named Squash.  Incredibly, Victor/Victoria was not nominated for Best Picture or Best Director.  Ghandi, E.T., Tootsie, the Verdict, and Missing were all nominated for Best Picture (all were also nominated for Best Director, except for Missing), with Ghandi being the big winner.  In my opinion, Victor/Victoria was the best picture for 1982.  
My favorite element of the film is Henry Mancini's remarkable score and original songs, with lyrics written by Leslie Bricusse.  As I mentioned above, Mancini (who died in 1994) and Bricusse received the Oscar for Best Original Song Score.  "Le Jazz Hot", the first song Andrews sings in the movie as a "drag queen", is a showstopper.  The movie version of "Le Jazz Hot" is far superior to the Broadway version of the same song.  "Crazy World" is a fantastic ballad, and many female concert performers have added this song to their repertoire.  Clearly, Mancini's Victor/Victoria score far exceeded any other film score he ever wrote during his lifetime.  
As for the DVD itself, the video transfer and the re-mastered soundtrack are superb.  What boggles my mind is why it took MGM so long to release the movie on DVD.  This is the type of movie that DVD players were made for!  With the exception of one theatrical trailer and a feature-length audio commentary with Julie Andrews and Blake Edwards, the film has no additional "extra features".  It would have been fun to see some of the film's deleted scenes, some of the film's outakes, a documentary of the making of the film, and updated cast interviews.  Because of Mancini's remarkable score and original songs, a "music-only" audio track should also have been included on the DVD.
Julie Andrews talks a lot more than Blake Edwards during the feature-length audio commentary.  Blake Edwards is relatively quiet after the first 15 minutes of the commentary.  He admitted during the commentary that he got caught up in viewing the movie (it sounds like he had not seen it for some time).  In any event, the husband and wife team provides behind the scenes information that is interesting and occassionally funny, although not as comprehensive as the viewer may have expected.  
Although Victor/Victoria is 20 years old, the movie could be released today as it was originally filmed.  This is because the story takes place in Paris in 1934 and because Blake Edwards directed Victor/Victoria with style and artistic qualities that make the movie relevant and modern enough to watch in 2002.  Victor/Victoria is more than just a musical comedy.  It is a story about sexuality, gender, and becoming comfortable living in your own skin.  Victor/Victoria teaches us to seek out our dreams and happiness, even if achieving these things requires us to make sacrifices and take risks.  Any fan of Blake Edwards, Henry Mancini, Julie Andrews, musical comedies, or just good, quality movies should buy Victor/Victoria for his or her DVD library.