Perhaps you saw Fight Club and could appreciate the visceral intensity but were put off by its muddled message.  Or maybe you saw Se7en and noticed the slick and grainy visual style, but couldn't handle the more grotesque aspects of that film.  Or maybe you (like me) love everything Fincher's ever done and cannot wait to be once again welcomed into his world of paranoia, pathos, and amazing visuals.  Well, no moatter who you are, you need to see Panic Room.
In Panic Room, David Fincher pulls out all the directing stops, every trick in his magic black bag of film wizadry and delivers on a simple, solid suspense story with none of the concept or pretense of his previous films.  This one goes straight for the gut, fiedishly manipulating every standard suspense contrivance, mercilessly playing with any jangly nerve, and keeping you on the edge of your seat from start to finish.  
There is not one sour note in the whole film (with the exception of the possibly too Hollywood ending, but it still works).  Every aspect of Fincher's technical mastery is on full display.  His camera moves gracefully across every square inch of the house which becomes a prison for Jodie Foster and her daughter, and the three men who break in one night in search of the former owners hidden riches.  In one amazing shot, Fincher moves from the fourth floor of the house where Foster and her daughter are sleeping soundly, all the way down to the first floor where we see the intruders beginning their break-in, throught the handle of a coffee pot, and then all the way BACK UP to the fourth floor where they finaly succeed in getting in without the shot breaking once and sliding the whole time with the cool, slow, impartial grace of a cat burglar.  
The premise is simple: Foster and her daughter are locked in an impenetrable room in their home, along with the loot that the 3 bad guys are looking for.  The bad guys want in, the good guys want them out of the house.  The plot is really as simple as that, but in Fincher's hands it turns into a beutifull paranoid battle of wits.  No time is wasted on anywhere and the suspense is instantly in high gear.  The performances are all perfect, with characters fully developed in their first moments of screen time.  You know who everyone is right away, with no time wasted on extraneous details, so all that's necessary is to sit and wait while the tension builds to the breaking point.  It is a terribly effective tactic as it leaves the audience totally open to watch the sparks fly without miring them in sentimentality.
Essentially, if you like suspense, see this movie.