Travis Bickle asks a girl out on a date, and takes her to a porno film. He sucks up to a political candidate, and ends up alarming him. He tries to make small talk with a Secret Service agent, but the agent is forced to back off. He wants to befriend a child prostitute, but scares her away.  Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver is the story of a man who tries to connect but cannot.
Taxi Driver was Martin Scorsese's fourth film and I believe it to be his best, though I have an equal love for almost all of his films. He does a cameo in this and it is possibly the most memorable scene in the whole film. Paul Schrader, a great director in his own right, provides the script. Schrader started in film criticism, was fired, had no money and was forced to live on the streets. Taxi Driver is what came out of that. The score was Bernard Herman's last and it's a fine farewell to a great composer. Just like the cinematography, the music puts us inside Travis's head.
The film has a real dream-like quality to it and it's no doubt that that comes from its wonderful and obscure cinematography. There are shots in this film that are just astounding but there is one in particular I will never forget. Travis calls up Betsy asking for a second date and slowly the camera dollies over to the empty hallway and stays there for a minute but it feels like a lifetime. I always felt, and I hope this is right, that this symbolizes Travis's loneliness. 
Robert De Niro gives one of the most chilling performances in film history and certainly, one of the best. Everything he does in the film is so right and I feel that it really wouldn't work if anyone else played Travis. Another Martin Scorsese regular, Harvey Keitel, turns in a surprisingly funny performance as a pimp called Sport. The scenes between these two legends are largely improvised and serve as some of the best scenes in the movie. A few of the other players are Jodie Foster, Peter Boyle and Cybil Shepard. All of these performances exceptional.
"You talking to me? Well I'm the only one here..."
One of cinema's true classics, Taxi Driver should be seen by all.