This is one of the finest opera DVDs it has ever been my pleasure to watch...now, that may be because I prefer laughing to crying, but I've given five stars to tear jerkers, too. This is Opera Buffa in all its glory...we come to have fun, not to ponder the meaning of life. Sometimes this can degenerate into slapstick, but these wonderful performers never did, even when Anna broke character to applaud Villazon's juggling act...yes, she broke character...look at her face....Villazon breaks character, too, but that was necessary to coordinate the encore of "una furtiva lagrima" with Maestro Eschwe. [And what an encore]!

Every one of the principals was perfectly cast, and in fine form. Rolando Villazon is all we have come to expect as the hapless Nemorino...we could almost believe he's the local fool. Anna Netrebko is absolutely delectable...she does everything well, and it's nice to see her live to the end of the show. Her comic by-play with all the other characters is flawless. Leo Nucci as the lustful Sgt. Belcore is an old pro...we've cried for Rigoletto, sympathized with Germont, and wanted to knife Scarpia ourselves; well, he can make us laugh, too....the old fool chasing the young girl has to be done just right, or he's not funny...Nucci is hilarious...and now.....

...a word about the REAL star; Ildebrando D'Archangelo as the quack Dr. Dulcamara carries the show. Perfect casting...flawlessly performed comedy. Nowhere is it written that the basso buffo has to be fat, and old. If Maestro D'Archangelo doesn't have quite the voice of the late, great, Salvatore Baccaloni, he still makes us believe, and makes us laugh. He has to move the plot line thru his interaction with the other characters, and he NEVER misses a beat...his dance scene with Anna is almost slapstick, but doesn't cross the line [nor does his sale of a bottle to the prompter].

This DVD is a treasure...great singing, and a rollicking good time. If you only go to the opera to be sad, forget it. But, if you like to laugh, don't miss this wonderful performance.