For those who are uninitiated your knowledge of Vampire Movies is in no way complete until you have seen the master of them all, Interview with the Vampire . It is the exception to every rule and the rule to every exception . Lush, powerful, poetically charged with emotion and overwhelming in its portrayal of what it means to have everything yet be left wanting by the sheer tedium of perpetuity & immortality - it is a movie that deservedly embodies the meaning of the word 'Epic', so often overused as a descriptive modifier yet very apt herein . There are films of its kind that achieve the status of Cruise Ship but 'Interview' is truly the only Oceanliner out there, the QM2 of its time and its kind . Heavy, calculating, intricately layed out - yet never resting for a moment in its potent ability to storytell . The first half of 'Interview' provides the interviewer (Christian Slater) with the poignant background of who Louis (Brad Pitt) is and where he came from, the arrival of Claudia (Kirsten Dunst) who plays the protagonist human epicenter of the dynamics between the living and the undead, and LeStat (Tom Cruise) who has brought Louis and Claudia, unwillingly, into his world - from which only sunlight, beheading or fire can provide final escape . In the second half of 'Interview' we arrive in Paris circa 1870, Louis & Claudia searching for LeStat's maker and in so doing hoping to find out more about themselves and the knowledge of the dark gifts LeStat has denied them . What they find instead is Armand (Antonio Banderas), at four-hundred years of age he is the World's oldest living Vampire, Claudia & Louis will be torn asunder after crossing paths with the seductive one - Louis's existence will never be the same again . A gilded era guilty pleasure, frought with love, death, grief, betrayal et al . Breathtakingly filmed with a cinematography that renders everything else in this genre to be pale and anemic by comparison - Interview with the Vampire is the heavyweight, the masterpiece of all Vampire movies, in a league and a class of its own, it attains excellence despite the presence of Tom Cruise, introduces the world to an impressive and powerful little girl named Kirsten Dunst and showcases what Neil Jordan is capable of in a timeless classic that will never go out of style . A must have for any serious Vampire film lover and for every collection to be considered complete .