This movie provides a great overview of this famous three-day battle in Pennsylvania.  It is about the battle with only minor introductory material.  Jeff Daniels is fantastic in this film.  He made a moving speech to a small group of deserters about the reason to fight.  It may sound like an obligatory speech about the abolition of slavery but with Jeff Daniels, it comes of sincere and moving.  There were similar moments from the Confederate side about why they too thought the war was justified considering all they wanted to do was to quit the Union and be left alone with their own country.  If one is willing to set aside the moral issue of slavery (no one should), one could see why the south felt this way.  The film made sure in the begining and at the end that the audience could property recognize and identify the actors in character and the actual historic figures they represent.  It is a very nice touch.  The acting is good with the obvious exception of Martin Sheen playing General Robert E. Lee.  His Lee was wooden, insignificant and not at all the majestic and larger-than-life figure that history has come to recognize Lee.  His poorly done and high pitch southern accent is quite bothersome to the degree of being silly.  It is almost enough to ruin the film's realism.  The movie avoided the bloody carnage that historical accounts have left us.  In the film, the dead and dying are relatively clean cut.  A more modern movie would seek to be more realisitc in this area.  The battle scenes are nevertheless very impressive.  The difficult defence of the left flank of The Little Round Top by Colonel Chamberlain's men and the artillery exchange of the two sides just before the start of the Pickett's charge on the last day were both very fine battlefield scenes.  The scenes depicting the consecutive firing of the large guns just before the charge are very impressive.  The film does provide and excellent overview of the battle of Gettysburg.  I highly recommend it for anyone about to visit Gettysburg or after you have done so for a visual review of what you have learned from your visit.  It is also for those who appreciate Jeff Daniels as an actor.