The original Cars in one of Pixar's more conflicted movies when it comes to a consensus. Some like it a little, some hate it. I thought it was alright, sort of. Unfortunately, Cars 2 succeeds in removing a lot about what made me like the first movie.

Cars 2 shifts the focus from racecar Lightning McQueen (Owen Wilson) to Mater (Larry the Cable Guy). The two of them head off to the World Grand Prix, only for Mater's carelessness to cause his friend to lose the first race. After being yelled at by the racecar, Mater decides that he should just go back home, only to be mistaken for a deep cover CIA agent by British spy Finn McMissile (Michael Cain). Thus Mater must help to stop a villainous plot and save the Grand Prix racers.

I like Mater, I've always liked Mater, and I got some genuine laughs from Larry the Cable Guy's performance. At first I didn't think they could possibly do anything with the "they think he's X and he accidentally makes it looks like he's X" setup, but it actually works and Mater turns out to be a resourceful guy after all. Another stand-out car his Cain's Finn McMissile. Ever wanted to see anthropomorphic cars beat each other up? I didn't think I did either, but the filmmakers found creative and fun ways to make it happen when McMissile squares off against the villains. Unfortunately, a lot of the spy stuff is out of place in a comedy that's only mildly amusing to anyone who isn't a kid. Younger viewers may be uncomfortable when some of the cars die, for instance.

Aside from those two, John Turturro's Italian Formula One car Francesco Bernoulli provides a fun, arrogant rival for McQueen. One of things I liked about the first Cars was all the characters in Radiator Springs, like Doc Hudson, Sarge, Fillmore, Luigi, and the others (except Sally, she's bland). Here, they're shoved aside and barely do anything (and Doc Hudson seems to be...dead?). This leaves us with strait man McQueen dealing with and reacting to whatever Mater does. Mater and McQueen are the only ones in the emotional spotlight, but their relationship doesn't progress, it retreads what's been done before. Racecar yells at tow truck, tow truck pouts, you know how it is. By the end of the movie, Mater and McQueen haven't moved forward, they've only solved a problem they've solved before. Mater's personal conflict about being oneself and realizing he's a nuisance beats you over the head with its message.

At least the visuals are great. Not just technically, but you also get the feeling that you're in a world of vehicles. You get to see cars in planes, cars in theaters, cars in bathrooms, lots of stuff.

If you're an adult, Cars 2 probably won't impress you like most other Pixar films have, aside from the action and a few of the better jokes. I'm not a little kid, but I'm guessing I would like this movie a whole lot more if I was. The better aspects, especially Mater, are enough to save this movie from the brink of abysmal suck, for me anyway. Overall, Cars 2 just isn't that good.