While many people see this movie as a 'Silence of the Lambs' style psychological horror movie (and being overly grotesque abd graphical for some) - the horror is just a minor aspect of the movie. In a way, it is just a metaphore for our lives today.

The movir centers on the relationship between supposedly opposite detectives - David Mills (Brad Pitt) is still young enough (and inexperienced enough in big city crime)to believe the system works, and that most criminals can be caught if the cops & detectives involved will work hard enough. Detective William Somerset (Morgan Freeman), on the other hand, had more than his share of unsolved, grotesque cases to be weary of the system. His definition of a 'closed case' is when there is nothing more to be done - whether the perpertrator has been caught, or in many of the cases - until there is no way of finding him or her. He's also experienced enough to know that hard work is often not enough, and that the wheels of justiced can work better if they're greased with some bribes somewhere along the way. Unlike Det. Mills, who fights the despair he sees around him by tryingto do his best, Det. Somerset just decide to give up - with so much crime going on around him, what can he do to stop it?

The movie assaults our sense of 'right and wrong'. Just like Det. Mills, we'd like to think everything can be resolved with logic - but are all logical decisions right decisions? The scene between Tracy & Somerset in the diner tries to tell us the opposite.

As the movie progresses, the relationship between the two detectives is getting better - not only are they becoming friends, but also manage to find a way to work well together, and to feed off each other's strength & talents. But this doesn't lead to a happy ending - even though the crime is solved. As the relationship gets better, the murders are becoming stranger, exposing us to seedier & seedier sides of life in the big city.

Looking at the way the movie is shot, NYC is always rainy, wet, neglected. This depressing atmosphere affects the lives of everyone living in it. Even the supposedly 'perfect' relationship between David & Tracy (the highschool sweethearts we'd all like to be) had somehow gone wrong - starting with the 'vibrating apartment', and going through a stage where Tracy doesn't share the secret of herpregnancy & her doubts about it with David.

The ending, on the other hand, occurs in a big, sunny field - the exact opposite of the wet city the characters had just left. But while the city was 'their turf', where they were in control, John Doe is in control of the situation in the field. Once again, our ideals of good & bad (crowded, wet city vs. the big, sunny countryside) are somehow used against us.