Back when "The Wrath of Khan" first hit the theaters, I remember thinking that Khan now ranks with the best movie bad guys of all time.  I think Ricardo Montalban may have turned out the best performance of his career by bringing complexity, passion, pathos, and humanity all at once to the role of Khan.  I'll never be able to read Moby Dick the same way ever again - "He tasks me, and I shall have him... I'll chase him 'round the moons of Nibia and 'round the Antares Maelstrom, and 'round perdition's flames before I give him up!"  Sure, I'm an avowed lifelong trek fan, but I don't think I'm exagggerating this by much.
On a more objective note, the movie works very well at multiple levels...  
The soundtrack itself is exceptional and, at the time, somewhat ground-breaking for the movie industry.  This is evidenced by the fact that subsequent soundtracks in the sci-fi genre seem to have borrowed from Horner's original score.  I think it was a shame that "Khan" was not nominated for an Oscar in the original score category.
The visual effects, which were state of the art at the time, still hold up over twenty years later.  It serves as a good example and reminder that movies used to have good special effects even in the pre-computer era.
The acting was also superior.  I already mentioned that Montalban may have given the performance of his life as "Khan", but I don't think it ends there.  William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, and DeForest Kelley also recaptured the feel of the cameraderie from the original series.  I am aware that Shatner is often criticized for being overly-dramatic, but my opinion is that this may also rank among the top two or three performance of Shatner's career as well (including the TV show).  One of the more memorable moments came following Khan's failed attempt to have Chekov and Terrell kill Kirk: [Kirk to Khan] "You've managed to kill just about everyone else, but like a poor marksman you keep missing the mark.", which was, of course, followed by Kirk's timeless "KHAAAANNNN!!!" exclamatory.  The acting was so good, IMHO, that the audience doesn't really notice that Kirk and Khan never really meet face-to-face, and the movie doesn't suffer because of it.
The Director's Edition DVD comes with a well-produced disc of supplementary material (interviews, commentaries, etc.) as well.  I particularly liked the recent interviews with the actors on their recollections from when the movie was being produced.  My favorite interview was Ricardo Montalban telling how horrified he was upon realizing how much he sounded like Mr. Roarke from Fantasy Island when he started reading his lines for the first time - "This is going to be a disaster!  The audience is going to laugh at me!"  He then tells of how he fixed the problem by requesting a copy of the original TV show "Space Seed" where the crew of the Enterprise first encountered Khan, and watching it over and over again until he began to recall his original work with the character.  Shatner also delivers a pretty good interview as he describes how he'll one day make Nimoy and Harve Bennett pay for not letting him in on the secret that by the time  the movie had been shot that they already had plans to bring Spock back.  Whether or not Shatner really knew is irrelevant - the interview is delivered w/ a deadpan that leaves the viewer in stitches.  There is also a good piece about how the visual effects were accomplished.
Overall, I rate "The Wrath of Khan" as the best movie in the entire series of Star Trek theatrical releases, and one of the better movies ever produced in the sci-fi genre as a whole.