This film is WRONG WRONG WRONG... the glorification of this man should not be allowed to continue unabated. The historical "inacuracies" are not limited to just the "compression of a few characters" or the "cutting of a few corners". It instead attempts to convince an increasingly gullible film going public that a twice convicted triple murderer was an honourable and gentle, scholarly "buddha".
This is not a mere distortion of the truth to make the story more watchable but a complete misrepresentation of the truth in every single part of the film.
The Bob Dylan song in the film (which incidentally, rather tellingly, he has not performed since carters second conviction in 1976, shortly after he beat the hell out of the woman who led the campaign for his release) is as much of a work of utter fiction, but was inspired and written in a time when the civil rights movement in America was at its most fiery.
There is however NO excuse for making a travesty of a film like this. I advise anyone who "liked" or "enjoyed" this film as entertainment or was taken in by the ludicrous portrayal of this savage brutal murderer to visit www.graphicwitness.com/carter/ to see the REAMS of evidence that runs contrary to the twee hollywood nonsense in this film.
There have been PLENTY of civil rights heroes that could and should be glorified ahead of and above Rubin Carter.
People like to believe the warm fuzzy story of a wrongly convicted man getting justice in the end, but the facts are being ignored.
1. Rubin carter had lost 7 of his last 15 fights and was in no way "number 1 contender for the middlewight crown"
2. Rubin Carter, as a young lad, did not stab a paediophile to protect his friend, he bottled a guy to get his wristwatch and $50
3. Rubin Carter was discharged from the army after 4 courts martial, involving violent conduct.
4. Rubin Carter beat a woman almost to death after his first release. She had been the leader of the campaign for his release
5. Rubin Carter refused to take a lie detector test 4 times, even though he was promised he could walk free if he passed
6. Rubin carter had in previous interviews admitted to firing guns at people for fun, and to numerous incidences of unrepented and severe public violence
There are so many more facts about him..... not including the evidence aginst him with regard to the lafayette grill murders.
This film leaves me feeling physically sick and reeks of all that is wrong with Hollywoods greedy championing of any "cause celebre" that they can make a fast buck out of. DO NOT BUY THIS FILM.