Let's start this off with two rules you can expect this review to follow. 1.) It's a Werewolf film, and a horror film. If you don't like Gore or being scared or action then you won't like this film. 2.) I love horror films, I have seen every horror film that I can get my hands on. From early Peter Jackson classics like Brain Dead and Dead Alive, to Italian Horror from Fulci and Mario Bava, to old American Black and White films good and bad such as Day of the Triffids and Manos Hands of Fate. Because I love horror films, and because I have seen so many this review is definately from a biased point of view. I will try my best to be as unbiased as possible but I warn you that I promise nothing. Now lets get to the review.
I picked this movie up on a whim while picking out some of the latest selection of low budget horror films at my local video store. I usually pick up one or two cheesy B grade films every weekend and this was no exception. Now the stuff I usually watch is low grade mindless "Look what I can do with CG effects." flavor of the week. All in all it tends to be very dissappointing, but from time to time I come home with something truly great; something like Dead Alive, or Evil Dead 2.
The truth about low budget horror films is that they have to have something to rely on since they don't have the budget to compete. Now while this usually ends up being CG effects, from time to time you find one made my a filmmaker worth his salt. In these cases the film is based on it's story, characters, or passion. Each of which in it's own right can take a film that normally would be plain and mundane and elevate it to cult status. The amazing thing about Dog Soldiers was that it had all three.
From the get go I was drawn into a story that moved smoothly from point to point, and was full of characters I found rich and interesting. At a couple points the story slowed down the pace to draw out more character development, and while for some action fans I can see this being boring, for me it deepened the interest in the characters as they interacted with one another and made me care what happened to each and every one. The story was solid and even threw a few curves that while predictable were still interesting and believable. The acting was not what you would expect from a Top Notch Hollywood Drama chock full of Academy Award winning actors and actresses but once again if that's what you want then why are you watching a Werewolf Movie? The Acting was good, better than I think anyone would expect and it drew you in, made you feel concern, compassion, or hatred for the various characters and it was never distracting or annoying as is often the case in Low grade Horror films. And the Effects were brilliant, the effects team decided to go with old school latex and mechanical construction rather than the more modern CG extravaganza which I think was perfect for this kind of film. Not only did it make the creatures feel more visceral and realistic but it added a sense of realism when the actors and actresses actually interacted with them. There is a fight scene where one of the soldiers breaks out whatever he can to defend himself, from knives, to kitchen pans, to his bare fists and that kind of scene just would not be possible with CG. 
With everything under consideration I have to say this is the best werewolf film I have ever seen, and ranks up there among the best creature features I have ever had the pleasure to watch. It surpasses even such greats in my mind as the Howling (Though this also is a classic.) and An American Werewolf in London. Silver Bullet may come close but not by much and even then it's effects just cannot compare. This is a film I will be adding to my DVD collection, If you love Werewolf films, or good horror films then I recommend you do as well.