One of my favorite Twin Cities pundits has said that the 1970s "began with Billy Jack and ended with the first Sex Pistols album." Having just viewed this movie for the first time in over thirty years, I can see why "Billy Jack" got its fifteen minutes (or less) of iconography. It has everything an early-70s cultural extravaganza could hope for: an epic struggle between good (peace-lovin,' folk-tune warblin' hippie youth) and thoroughly despicable evil (raping a skinny-dipping schoolmarm??! Shooting beautiful wild mustangs for... DOG FOOD??!!), and best of all, slow-mo martial arts (which would later be copped for the classic 70s TV show, "Kung Fu"). I loved it as a twelve year old, and still enjoyed it last night--and not *entirely* for campy, ironic reasons.
What still holds up thirty-plus years later is the Southwest scenery, some of the real Native American actors featured (although Billy Jack himself looks about as Indian as my Uncle Ole), and the organic feel of some of the scenes: I'd bet that many town council meetings of the era looked and felt about like the culture-clash depicted in the film. Although some of the more free-form scenes tended to drag, one could argue that they were accurate real-time depictions of the era.
The "70s moments" that had me alternatively chuckling and shaking my head were almost too numerous to mention, but included: the earnest, off-key folk singing (and equally earnest, but ear-bleedingly shrill, theme song); the untalented attempts at improv and street theater; Bernard's fancy new "$6,000 car"; the aforementioned schoolmarm's funky sideburns. But most of all, Billy Jack (aka Tom Laughlin) himself is a real doozy: so steadfast, so conflicted and tormented, so seriously spouting pseudo-spiritual babble while getting ready to kung-fu the crap out of someone. He is so obsessive and near-psychotic in his Great Protector role that its surprising that they let him hang around all those gentle hippies, in lieu of having him committed: it's a bit like having Travis Bickle (another 70s troubled loner) in charge of security. When Billy Jack finally takes that bullet, nearly goes down in the big shootout (there's even a character named "O.K. Corrales," for Pete's sake) and surrenders himself to the authorities in the wake of the raised fists of his young charges, one thinks: *finally*, Billy can get the help he needs.
Alas, the Tom Laughlin franchise was short-lived, with two truly wretched movies to follow before petering out altogether. Given the opportunity, he's probably champing at the bit to give us "Billy Jack Returns Yet Again" or some such thing. However, I'm happy to settle for this flawed, deeply silly yet highly entertaining timepiece and haul it out from the archives whenever I want to revisit my twelve-year old self.