This is easily one of the best DVDs the WWE has ever released.  It's a 2-disc set, with disc 1 telling the actual Chris Benoit story and having the first half of the extras (which there are a lot of), and disc 2 giving the other half of the extras.  The extra matches are:

Disc 1:

1.) The Pegasus Kid V.S. Jushin "Thunder" Liger-IWGP Junior Heavyweight Title Match This is a match that has Chris Benoit wrestling as the masked Pegasus Kid from New Japan Pro wrestling.  It was not his best match from Japan, but it was still very good. (8.5/10) (The matches from Japan also contains alternate commentary from Michael Cole & Tazz or Dean Malenko & Chris Benoit)

2.) Chris Benoit V.S. Too Cold Scorpio-WCW Superbrawl

This is a pretty long match with a lot of technical wrestling and good spots in this match.  It's basically non-stop action from action from start to finish.(9/10)

3.) Wild Pegasus Chris Benoit V.S. Black Tiger-Super J Cup Semi-Final

This is the second of three matches from New Japan, with Chris Benoit wrestling unmasked against Eddie Guerrerro, who was under the name Black Tiger.  This is a very entertaining match, although they would go on to have some true classics in the U.S. (8/10)

4.) Wild Pegasus Chris Benoit V.S. The Great Sasuke-Super J Cup

Final

This match took place on the same night as Benoit's match against Black Tiger, but both men put on a display of great aerial and technical wrestling.  Great match.(9/10)

5.) Chris Benoit V.S. Sabu-ECW November 2 Remember

This match isn't much of a match at all.  It is actually only about a minute long, but you should watch the match because this the famous match where Sabu breaks his neck and Benoit gets the name "The Crippler."  Check this one out. (5/10)

6.) Chris Benoit V.S. Al Snow-ECW Double Tables

This match is actually very entertaining.  Al snow actually carried his weight in this one. (8/10)

Disc 2:

7.) Chris Benoit V.S. Eddie Guerrerro-WCW Monday Nitro

This is a very good, fast paced match.  Watch for when Benoit whips Guerrerro into the ring post.  It's sick. (8.5/10)

8.) Street Fight: Chris Benoit V.S. Kevin Sullivan-WCW Great American Bash `96

This isn't the best wrestling match, but it is still entertaining.  Listen the commentary when Benoit and Sullivan fight in the bathroom.  It's hilarious. (7.5/10)

9.) Final Match in Best of 7 Series: Chris Benoit V.S. Booker T-WCW Great American Bash `98

I have a short attention span, but this match had me glued to my seat.  Awesome match. (9.5/10)

10.) Owen Hart Tribute Match: Chris Benoit V.S. Bret Hart-WCW Monday Nitro

This match was not about storylines or titles, it was about wrestling, and these two athletes left it all on the line in this one. (10/10)

11.) Chris Benoit V.S. Sid Vicious-WCW Souled Out

This match is important in Benoit's career, but it's also long and boring. (6.5/10)

12.) Chris Benoit V.S. William Regal-Brian Pillman Tribute Show

This is a very entertaining match.  These two seemed to mix very well. (8/10)

13.) Steel Cage Match: Chris Benoit V.S. Kurt Angle-WWE Monday Night RAW

This is an awesome match with a lot of high spots the include Benoit German suplexing Angle off the top rope and Benoit hitting the diving head butt from the top of the cage. (9.5/10)

14.) WWE Title Match: Chris Benoit V.S. Kurt Angle-WWE Royal Rumble

A truly classic match, this is what wrestling is about.  Classic match. (10/10)

15.) World Heavyweight Title/Triple Threat Match: Chris Benoit V.S. Shawn Michaels V.S. Triple H-WWE Wrestlemania XX

Many people say that this is the greatest main event in Wrestlemania history, and I can't say that I disagree.  Unbelievable match. (10/10)