The man of power throws himself in the garbage truck to be devoured. That's where all men of power and especially American men of power belong. That's seems to be the final statement of this film and what a grand statement it is!
This is a political film although it is an allegorical one. Who would dare to claim openly that all these self-made-bastards belong in the garbage, when so many Americans idolize these same men, like every single republican to say the least.
That something so abysmal as republicans, believing themselves to be some latter-day pioneers, exist in the USA is a sure sign for lunacy of that society. Oh, the counterparts of republicans exist in other countries as well, that's for sure, but they don't get that much chance to express themselves and lie and lie and lie as in the USA, depending of course on the fact that they own the media in that country.
Can I blame reviewers, who feel that this film somehow threatens their world and therefore dislike it, considering that these reviewers have been thoroughly brainwashed since birth? Yes, I can for I was not much better than them when I grew up but I started to ask myself questions about right and wrong, seriously, as every young man and woman should do and I was thrown into panic when my world collapsed (well it did not collapse just because of that) which will not have to happen to everyone if they do it early enough in life, like it is their God-given duty to do!
And to be able to see this film and it's correct depiction of what America truly stands for, is a little starter on the way towards truth that anyone should be able to bear and relish.
The land of great adventures, maybe you say? Yes, I reply, inventions made to about 90 per cent by foreign inventors that were bought with the money made from exploitation, enslavement and invasion.
Every empire must fall eventually but this American one is by far the most dangerous yet and it might possibly bring the whole of humanity down with it, if we do not act in time and throw things that belong there in the garbage-can.