The film West Side Story received ten Academy Awards in 1961 and could easily have won more. It is as powerful and as graceful today as it was when it first premi&egrave;red. A musical that combines drama, ballet, humor, poetry, irony, and some spectacularly tasteful camera effects, West Side Story boasts a score by Leonard Bernstein, lyrics by Stephen Sondheim, on-site filming on Manhattan's lower West Side, and superb choreography with the expert directorship of Robert Wise and Jerome Robbins. The film was probably Natalie Wood's best performance in the role of immigrant girl Maria, newly arrived in New York from Puerto Rico, totally unaware of the hostilities in her new surroundings.

It is at the dance at the gym where Maria, betrothed to Chino (Jose Vega), a young Puerto Rican, meets Tony (Richard Beymer) totally by accident during a dance that is, in truth, a challenge between the Sharks, a Puerto Rican gang headed by Maria's brother, Bernardo (George Chakiris), and the Jets, headed by Tony's best friend, Riff (Russ Tamblyn), who had invited Tony to attend the dance. Immediately Anita (Rita Moreno), Bernardo's girlfriend, warns Maria to stay away from Tony because he is "one of them," but Maria replies, "I only saw him," indicating that she is blind to the prejudices around her. Neither Tony nor Maria care about the bigotry and ill will between the gangs, which only causes trouble between the Jets and the Sharks, who plan to fight for controlling their neighborhood. Both sides claim they will fight fairly to one another, but secretly they plan to use any means to keep control, even if it means using knives.

Tony feels he can reduce the fight to a fist fight and avoid any real violence. Maria, however, wants to avoid any fight and asks Tony to stop the fight. When Tony shows up at the rumble and tries to stop the fight, the Sharks jeer at him and try to incite him to attack. They succeed at angering Tony to the point that he hits Bernardo. Bernardo draws a knife, and soon both sides draw knives. It isn't long before Riff is killed, and in retaliation, Tony stabs Bernardo. Tony realizes what he has done and screams, "Maria!" The police are on the way, and Tony runs for dear life.

Maria is waiting for Tony to return, believing that he has stopped the fight, when Chino enters. She sees he is wounded and asks if he has been fighting. Chino is upset, and Maria asks if Tony was hurt. Chino answers angrily, "He killed your brother!"

Maria, crying furiously, enters her room, and prays, "Please, let it not be true!" She cannot stop crying, but she cannot believe what she has heard. Tony appears, and she turns to him, beats him with her fists, and screams, "Killer! Killer!" Yet she sobs and melts into his arms. Tony explains what happened, and Maria realizes that things got out of control. "It's not us! It's everything around us!"

Tony stays with Maria until he hears Anita arriving. Tony leaves her room through the window. Anita enters, looks around, and sees Tony in the distance. She angrily says, "Don't you see he's one of them?!?!?" In the duet that follows, "A Boy Like That," Anita expresses her anger for Maria's betrayal, and Maria answers the paradox of love in "I Have a Love," one of the most rare and beautiful moments of modern musical theater. In the final lines, both women sing, "When love comes so strong, there is no right or wrong, your love is your life."

Anita tells Maria that Chino has obtained a gun and is out looking for Tony to shoot him for what he did to Bernardo.

Maria tells Anita, "If he does that, I will..."

Anita says, "You'll do what Tony did to Bernardo?"

Maria says, "I love Tony."

Anita replies, "I know. I loved Bernardo."

The police arrive, and Maria wants to send a message to Doc's store, a favorite hangout of the Jets, where she is sure Tony might come to wait for her. She tells Anita in a cryptic manner to go there to tell Doc that she would go there herself to pick up a package but that she has been detained, meaning that she would come to meet Tony but cannot. Anita leaves so that Maria can talk with the police.

When Anita arrives at Doc's store, the Jets are there, but they receive her with hostility because she is Puerto Rican. Instead of allowing her to deliver the message, they assault and abuse her. Anita then responds in anger, "Tell Tony that Maria's never going to meet him. Chino found out about them and shot her. She's dead!"

Doc sadly gives this false message to Tony, who has been waiting in the basement of his store. Tony, shattered by the news, bursts outside of his store, shouting, "Chino, come and get me, too, Chino!"

It is later as he wanders outside that Maria appears. Tony is overjoyed to see her, but just as they meet, Chino appears and shoots Tony dead. Tony dies in her arms. The final scene is particularly heart wrenching and is one that the viewer must see to appreciate fully.

It amazed me that although I had seen this film several times before, repeat viewings did not diminish its impact. This is a film that is a must for any cinema buff's collection.