Hamlet: Tragedy Seen in terms of Christianity  Samuel T. Goldberg, M.D., psychoanalyst, Columbia, Maryland  Samtgoldberg@pol.net 
  As illuminating as it may be, the  psychoanalytic is only one specific  perspective among many from  which one can examine Shakespeare's tragedy,  Hamlet, Prince of  Denmark . Equally important and valid would be to view  Hamlet's  entire struggle as between belief in spiritual life after death  vs. a materialistic scientific belief that the disintegration of the  body is the final end; or, as vacillation between the poles of  Christian  faith vs. skeptical doubt. One could interpret the  greed, ambitions,  fears, actions, and foibles of those  defending or seeking political  power as representing their  ongoing choice between the "Kingdom on  Earth" and the "Kingdom  of Heaven"; clearly, this is how Claudius is  poised when he  attempts to pray. Yet again, one could explicate  Shakespeare's  commentary on how these choices affect not only the souls  and  lives of the individuals, but also the health or illness of the  state as a whole. 
  Even before learning from his father's  ghost of Claudius's crimes,  Hamlet is undoubtedly depressed. By  his own descriptions, he wears  black, sighs, gives forth  "fruitful river of the eye", and is dejected  in mood and  behavior, showing "all forms, moods, and shapes of  grief."(1.2.77-82) All the uses of this world to him seem "weary, stale,  flat, and unprofitable." (1.2.133-134) He depicts himself as weak,  as  distant from Hercules as Claudius is from his father.  (1.2.152-153).  He's lost all his mirth, and given up his habits  of exercise.(2.2.297)  His heart breaks (1.2.159). He wishes for  suicide, if only God had not  forbidden it (1.2.132). He values  his life no more than he does a  pin(1.4.65) The encounter with  his father's spirit hardly lifts his own  spirits. Soon after,  he tells Polonius he will walk into his grave  (2.2.207), and  that Polonius can take his life, with which he would part  willingly . (2.2.217) He calls himself a rogue, a peasant slave, a  coward, an ass, and a whore. (2.2.549-585) 
  What is the  cause of Hamlet's depression? Obviously, he has lost his  father. Hamlet has not completed mourning for his father; he has not let  father go. He repeatedly is confused about how long father has  actually  been dead, a duration he always underestimates.  Moreover, his mother's  behavior has disillusioned, tormented,  and infuriated him. Gertrude had  made great show of her love  for his father while he was alive, and of  her grief for his  death. Yet, her tears in truth were "most unrighteous"  (1.2.154). She is like Niobe(149), whose behavior led to the death of  all her children; so also, Hamlet seems to predict, Gertrude's  behavior  will lead to his own death. She has permitted herself  with indecent  haste to be seduced by and to marry Claudius, her  brother in law,  incestuously. Hamlet at times seems even to  suspect her of complicity in  the murder(3.4.30).^ Flesh itself  is sullied, defiled and debased. All  frailty can be seen in  woman. 
  ( It is at times ambiguous whether or not Gertrude may  have participated  in the plot to kill Hamlet's father. In the  Glenn Close film version, at  the senior Hamlet's coffin,  Gertrude and Claudius exchange a lengthy eye  contact full of  significance, noticed by Hamlet, though perhaps  indicating only  an attraction till then suppressed. The ghost not only  fails to  include Gertrude as a murderer, but orders Hamlet to contrive  no revenge against her. Hamlet, however, seems at first to hold her  equally as guilty of the murder. Though it's not clear that these were  among the lines inserted into the Marriage of Gonzago by Hamlet,  the  player Queen says, "In second husband let me be accursed!  None wed the  second but who killed the first." (3.2.177-178) In  his mother's bedroom,  Hamlet accuses her of killing a king, but  her response indicates  astonishment (3.4.30-31), and their  making peace by the end of the scene  again seems to dispel that  accusation against her.) 
  This painful disorder and  disappointment in his family has caused Hamlet  to lose faith  more generally. Pulled into his disillusionment are not  only  the key people about him, but also the state of Denmark, majesty,  men generally, women, beauty, love, words, the value of action, his  self-worth, and the worth even of life itself. Despondent, betrayed,  and  aggrieved, Hamlet observes things rank and gross in nature  possessing  all the world. It is an unweeded garden grown to  seed (1.2.135-136), as  if he could now see what has become of  the Garden of Eden because of the  original sin, Adam's and  Eve's sensual transgression. Claudius is the  serpent who has  tempted "Eve" and stung Hamlet's father's life.  (1.5.40).  Moreover, with regard to the deaths of fathers, the new King  of  Denmark refers nonchalantly to the first murder, telling Hamlet that  "from the first corpse (ie, Abel's) till he that died today, `this  must  be so.'" (1.1.101-106) Claudius later refers to his crime  as having "the  primal eldest curse upon't," ie, the curse of  Caine. (3.3.36-37;  cf.5.1.77) His rank offense and its effects  rot in Denmark (1.4.90) and  "smell to Heaven."(3.3.36) 
  Hamlet is appalled: everywhere he sees mere seeming. All appearance is  deceptive. Only one man in ten thousand is honest, (2.2.178)  and the  world will be honest only when doomsday is near  (2.2.237-238), ie,  never, or but very briefly. One may smile,  smile, and be a villain.  Consider how Claudius first appears,  addressing the full court. About  his grief and his marriage,  his public statement is crafted for public  purpose; he allows  no candor. (1.2.1-13) Though just having achieved a  new wife  and kingdom, he shows not full joy, but must pretend it is  "defeated." Discretion, he says, makes sorrow "wise", limiting grief and  advising also to remember oneself, but it also makes joy wise, ie,  curtailed so as not to offend. "In equal scale weighing delight  and  dole," Claudius at nearly every moment can be seen to be  calculating,  measured, his self-interest never forgotten. 
  Claudius advises Hamlet no longer to continue those "mourning  duties" to  his father(1.2.89), which he sees as issuing from  mere "obligation"  (1.2.91). He does not permit himself to  recognize true or unadulterated  grief within himself, nor to  empathize with that suffered by Hamlet.  Though he has just  given the other youth, Laertes, leave to return to  Paris,  Claudius bids Hamlet to "remain here in the cheer and comfort of  our eye," and opposes his returning to Wittenberg . (1.2.115-116)  Perhaps suspecting already that Hamlet could become a threat, Claudius  wants to keep an eye on him. In reality, Claudius subjects Hamlet  to  "the oppressor's wrong... the insolence of office."  (3.1.72-74) Though  he courts the prince with expressions of  fatherly love,^ Claudius is  manifestly the bad father, who  fears, suspects, needs to watch and to  control Hamlet, and who  is ready to turn against him murderously. Hamlet  suspects his  villainy even before meeting the ghost: ("O, my prophetic  soul!"1.5.42). 
  Likewise, Polonius, the king's most trusted  adviser, also lives by  scheming. He dissembles constantly, and  even advises his son Laertes  against being direct, telling him  to keep his true self internally  hidden, in reserve: "Give thy  thoughts no tongue."(1.3.59). The outward  show is what is  important: "The apparel oft proclaims the man." (72). So  also  does he hide himself externally, in order to observe others in  secret. He is willing to contrive even to sully his own son's reputation  in order to spy on him. (2.1.22-63) In his loyal service to the  King, he  will^ sacrifice even his daughter, using her as bait.  He admits, "With  devotion's visage and pious action we do sugar  o'er the devil himself."  (3.1.47-49) 
  Like his  son, Laertes, Polonius at first mistakes Hamlet's character and