just like one of the other reviewers , i can't believe i'm giving this 5 stars.

to best review HOT TUB TIME MACHINE , i have to bring up something from the past.
A year ago i watched the "it" movie , THE HANGOVER.
i have a pretty dirty sensibility and love crude humour, but at the same time , i don't like being treated dumb , whether it's comedy , drama, thriller , sci fi , whatever.
treat the audience with respect and you won't lose them.

The Hangover in my opinion was a big long fart.
 It's got no brain , no aenima ( just think of Alan Arkin / John Cusack / Grosse Point Blank )
Never want to see it again.
Horrified to hear there's a sequel in the offing.

Hot Tub Time Machine,  on the surface  appeared to be a similar dumb crude comedy that i thought just by the title , was going to suck.
Do not let the title sway you.
This movie had me in tears, over , and over , and over. That's why i had to give it 5 stars !
When a movie makes you repeatedly wipe away tears , with its vulgarity and crudity , and then has the range to actually have some rare emotional moments that work , you know it's doing something right.
I'm not going to spoil any of it.
Just watch it with no preconceptions.

Rob Corddry deserves an award for his role...i'm not kidding.
sometimes you see a performance that is just sheer poetry

This is the movie that The Hangover wishes it could have been.
Even though i know TH  made a ton of $ , and was popular , doesn't mean it was a funny movie.
Certainly wasn't funny to me.

those little flecks of white that people have on their fingernails, that is what The Hangover is when compared to Hot Tub Time Machine.
HTTM is a full body of comedy.
and again , Rob Corrdry , bravo . Best performance of the year .

some of you may disagree.....and it probably does help to have lived through some of the 80's , but my wife was crying just like me , and she wasn't an 80's child at all. been

 if you like it really crude , but never insulting ,  you'll love this.....LOVE IT !