This is admittedly a concept with potential: A shrink (Alexandra Wentworth) who has a never ending parade of guest star celebrities spill their deepest darkest secrets to her.

While there is some structure to this show--some recurring characters (the best by far being Steve Landesberg) and some depiction of the main shrink outside her office, the payoff--when there is a payoff-comes with the guest celebrities. And these analysis sessions are really all over the map. They are supposedly for the most part unscripted, and so depend on the guest to provide the laughs--either intentionally or not.

Unfortunately, for me, many were simply "not". Only a few guests were really up to the task of being funny. The rest probably thought they were up to the task but weren't, or else thought that being weird would be funny, but it's not--it's just weird and sometimes frighteningly so.

I would also argue that the scripted humor is often just too broad, self aware, and winking. It would seem in a show like this that is attempting a meta reality that breaks down the fourth wall--the guests are on as the famous guests themselves, describing their own real lives (at least at some level)--you go subtle for the cast and script. If the cast figuratively winks at the camera, it really diminishes the humor in the premise.

With a format like this, of course, where the guest being analyzed changes every week, there is always hope that the next face that comes through the door will be more interesting/funny than the one that just left. And so, even when you hit a dog episode you are somehow drawn to watch the next one...

On the whole, I would say that this series presents more promise than payoff, at least in this, the first seasons (plus a number of earlier shorts on Disc 2). But unlike so much of the tripe on TV, this seems like a gamble that will continue to payoff, at least intermittently. Hopefully, the producers of the show will have learned from their guests on Season one and will focus more on those people who will help reach that payoff more frequently.