What's with all the negative comments? This movie is incredible! And yes, I have read the book; I watched this movie the very same day I finished the book, in fact, and relished both treasures. I stayed up till four am watching the film (in spite of the fact I had school the next day) and it was worth it!

The heroine, Mary, is truly a diverse character; in the beginning of the story, she is spoiled and snobbish, cared for by her Indian nursemaids and neglected by her socialite parents. When her parents die in a tragic accident, however, Mary is sent from the exotic heat of India to the coldness of England, where she is again almost totally ignored by her uncle and his busy servants. Left on her own to wonder the grounds as she chooses, Mary soon comes across many secrets that have long lay buried and sets about unearthing them. It is during her endeavors of discovery that she slowly awakens two lush gardens: one within the mansion's grounds, and another deep in her heart.

This story is largely about healing and awakening; the spring glory of the secret garden and the touching spiritual healing of Mary and her family are equally heart-jerking and brought tears to my eyes. Many have complained about inaccuracy to the book, but with a few minor exceptions, I must say I disagree. Any changes were small and I personally think Burnett would have been proud of this film. The scenery, casting, and music are flawless; the grounds of Mary's uncle's huge estate go from cold to vibrantly breathtaking in wonderful symbolism. The child who plays Mary is a classicaly lovely brunette who brings the perfect mixture of high-class snobbery, stubborness, and ultimate softness to her character; Maggie Smith is also wonderful in her stiff but not unlikeable role as head housekeeper, and no one could have found a better actor for the thin and isolated Colin. And the music: if I hadn't already lost the battle with tears, I would have as soon as Linda Ronstadt's haunting voice began singing when the credits rolled. The music throughout is wonderful and adds to the story's beauty.

This movie is refreshing, healing, and beautiful. I highly recommend it, whether you've read the book or not; unless you're a VERY hardcore fan who will not allow yourself to tolerate any inaccuracies whatsoever, you'll heartily enjoy it.