This is Bruno Anthony's response on seeing Guy Haines' cigarette lighter as they talk in the lounge car of the train. Then, a little later, Bruno orders lamb chops, french fries, and chocolate ice cream for lunch...hilarious juxtaposition....
  There is very much to like about this film...and some of the reviews here have pointed out the flaws.  One reviewer pointed out the most glaring unbelievability...but it is the one which throws the carousel into chaos and that non-stop
churning action scene.  Guy Haines runs onto the carousel at the end of the film to catch Bruno, and one of the policemen fires a gun at him (is Guy at that point a deadly threat?), but the bullet hits the carousel attendant holding the lever which controls the speed of the carousel...he falls over...taking the lever downward...thus throwing the carousel into over-drive.
  But there is so much visually and psychologically to like about this film.  The three best visuals for me -- for their composition and style -- are of Guy arriving outside his up-scale apartment house at night in a cab...there is a tree beside the curb... and a street light...the tree and the street and the building are wonderfully haunting in the position of the camera and the light and shadow effect.  The second visual follows shortly thereafter...Bruno is waiting in the shadows across the street...he calls to Guy from out of the dark...Guy crosses the street and finds Bruno lurking near an iron fence and gate... Guy winds up on one side of the gate with Bruno on the other...the camera looks into Guy's face between the iron bars...this is the time in the film when the actor Farley Granger's face is at its maximum of good looks...the effect of light and shadow on his attractive face is very pleasing... the third visual occurs when Guy goes into Bruno's mansion at night on the supposed errand of killing Bruno's father...the dark interior of the mansion...the pacing...the slow climb up the stairs...the silent, enigmatic great Dane dog waiting at the top of the stairs...oh, what the heck, why not also throw in the night scenes of the lights and the lake at the carnival in Metcalf...
  Since I am a strong fan of the visual beauty and style (if not the themes) of the film version of "The Talented Mr. Ripley", it is instructive to watch that film and this one in sequence...much of the similarities will come through the novelist's writing of course, since they were written by the same author...but the visual similarities and  executions in the two films are extremely interesting to study as well...
  "Strangers on a Train" is a film I can watch over and over again...only the tennis match, I think, would become possibly tedious to rewatch multiple times... Dimitri Tiomkin's musical score is haunting, but I detect some very similar themes in it which remind me of pieces from "The Thing From Another World", also released in 1951 with a Dimitri Tiomkin score...
  The things which repel me about the film are the beginning with Bruno's "loud" shoes getting out of the cab...and the music with its jazzy hint of mockery at the implied gay character...just like that mocking scene in "The Maltese Falcon" when Spade and his secretary smirk over the gardenia scent on Cairo's card...Guy's wife, of course, is as repellent in her abrasive manipulation and plotting maliciousness as Frankie is in "The
Talented Mr. Ripley" with his smirking, sarcastic mockery of Tom...
  The clarity of the images on this DVD is excellent... and the black and white imagery is liquid and  lucious...of all the actors and actresses in the film, only Ruth Roman seems somehow visually not right for the role of Guy's fiancee...all in all, this is an excellent film for repeated viewing, close scrutiny, and multiple enjoyment...