There are many things about Closure. There's minor flaws and many enjoyable things.
It starts out with the live video of the Self-Destruct Tour (1994), Further Down The Spiral Tour (1994-5) and the one with David Bowie. It starts out with the disclaimer, which I don't know if that's so important to you. It also includes footage of Trent and co. smashing and exit sign and other stuff. The only flaw I saw in it was Danny wearing a thong. It might've been for to have fun, but I guess I just didn't get impressed by it. I agree with most of the stuff on Halo_tragedy's review because the parts with Trent WERE the most interesting. Includes live performances of Hurt, in which on Closure, has the version with David Bowie along with Trent. Also has The Only Time, Piggy, Something I Can Never Have, etc. I thought more of the Broken songs could have been done for the video.
Their videos are even unique. Sin was never released to MTV, because of the piercings at some (ouch) nasty places and gay men smearing blood on each other. It also has the original videos on everything else. Like the Down In It video whenever he dies at the end and it has outtakes from a snuff film, investigated by the F.B.I. And it includes another Pretty Hate Machine video, Head Like A Hole, which includes three versions of the video, and the only non-controversial PHM music video. Then there's also the unedited version of Happiness In Slavery, which the cut part includes this guy gets into a dentist chair type thing and just gets ripped apart. At the end, Trent comes in and blows out a candle, in which you will find in the Broken movie. And the Gave Up video has Manson when he was normal, in fact he was the first artist signed to Nothing. A girl would love the unedited video of Closer because in some scenes it shows nude men. And it also contains the original March of the Pigs video. Also includes a triple-live music video part, Hurt, and the best one, The Perfect Drug.
A masterpiece. If you're just now adding your halo collection, I hope you include Closure, a collection of what NIN is all about. Even if you hated it you'll be impressed that you know what's been going on with the world.