Pretentiousness is something I absolutely can't stand in movies. For me, pretentious films, like Never Let Me Go, Sucker Punch, or Meek's Cutoff are much, much harder to sit through than bottom-of-the-barrel BS like Bucky Larson: Born To Be A Star, The Roommate, or Vampires Suck. Why? While the BS makes you feel sorry for yourself for ever having sat through it, pretentious flicks just make you mad, because their overinflated egos are right in your face.

So, where am I going with this?

Because, in the movie-going world, Faster is a revelation of sorts. It is gracefully not BS and thankfully not pretentious.

Now, that's not to say it is awards material (although I'd argue the Cinematography is), but in a cinema plagued with trash, Faster is the kind of film you're glad to see because it knows what it is, knows what it isn't, and just tries to make the most out of its B-movie story.

Yeah, this is a B-movie. You're not going to stare at the screen and 90 minutes later learn something profound about Humanity's place in the universe. This ain't that kind of movie. From the first shot of The Rock's built up pecs, you're going to see a man's kind of movie with guns, chases, and blood with a neat little throwback to Film Noir and the revenge flicks of the 1970s in between. It is all style and practically no substance.

This is the kind of movie you either like or you don't, and there isn't much more to say than that. If what you want in a movie is something the Oscars would fawn all over, this ain't really for you unless you appreciate Cinematography most in a movie. If what you want in a movie is something modest, this is one great way to spend an afternoon.

Now, regarding the Blu Ray, the manufacturers did a hell of a job here. The picture is pristine, with a fine layer of grain (the film was shot on 35mm). Colors and Shadows are dead on, with no digital noise and no weird-ass DNR. The sound is a kick to the woofers, with dialogue perfectly audible and sound effects perfectly triumphant and full of oomph!. A bang-up presentation. Regarding Special Features, the main mini-docs on the cast and crew and cars are practically promos, so they're skippable. What you want to see is the deleted scenes. While they're not merely filler or beats that are take-it-or-leave-it like most deleted scenes, these scenes are so terrible you have to see them to believe them (the alternate ending in particular).

However, I must put out something of particular note. While I can't say this is a film I love, it is one I like, and a movie I've seen more than 10 times. The Blu Ray I received is different than the DVD, almost like a different, more rougher cut of the film. A hymn plays during the opening music number where once there was none. The guards now have dialogue when they didn't before and the prisoners now are audibly clear, where once they were but intimidating and muffled growls and shouts behind glass. Some of the cuts seem more stilted, with the music cues being almost out of place. With the Private Investigator, there are different shots used. This is all within the first 20 minutes. While I didn't see the movie in theaters, this is something I couldn't help but notice in comparison to how I've typically seen the movie before on a DVD. A great presentation still, but one I couldn't help but notice the differences with.