I was skeptical of this DVD set.  There is just so much material and the scope of the event was so large, I was not sure what to expect.  I really hoped that EMI would do Live 8 justice.

I was not disappointed.

I will not comment on the actual concerts or my "favorite parts" or anything like that.  If you have not seen any of these concerts, you DEFINITELY need to get this DVD set.

One note before I continue:  even though there are 4 DVDs in this package, it DOES NOT include the complete Philadelphia and London/Hyde Park concerts.  The vast majority of both concerts ARE included, but it definitely does not include everything.  You have been warned.

This compilation takes all of the concert footage from that memorable day and rolls it into one beautiful, 10 hour concert.  The journey begins at the top of the London/Hyde Park concert with U2 and Paul McCartney.  The coverage continues in order from Hyde Park, then begins to alternate among all of the concerts.  The concert ends on Disc 3 as the Hyde Park concert ended, with Paul McCartney leading all of the London artists in "Hey Jude."

Disc 4 includes footage from the Edinburgh concert on 6 July 2005 (the "final push" concert).  It also contains some extra footage from the 2 July 2005 concerts that were not included on the first three discs.

For those of you who, like me, watched the concerts live on AOL and then enjoyed their rebroadcasts of the event all summer, the three-disc concert feels similar to their main rebroadcast in which they, too, featured footage from all of the concerts.  It very well may be the same compilation with regard to content - I am not positive on that, though.

The footage is truly gorgeous.  The live producers did a fantastic (almost super-human) job at trying to capture all of the action and emotion in real time at each venue.  The producers for this DVD edition, however, added more polish to an already well-done production.  The audio was re-mixed and corrected mistakes that were found in the live feed.  The video, too, was remastered to provide better angles throughout the concerts.  The video itself is beautiful.  Crisp, clean, and fluid.

The footage is uncensored, which was nice to see.  With that, though, know that some of the footage is not for young ears.  Watch the concert first before showing it to your youngsters.

Full concert footage for the Berlin, Paris, Rome, and Toronto concerts is available separately.  I am hoping that they also release full-concert editions of the Hyde Park and Philadelphia concerts, too.

I really am pleased with this compilation.  Get yourself a copy or two or ten.  You will not be disappointed.