Alright, so it was made in the late '80s to early '90s.  The budget was not as big as it could have been, and some of the lines are cheesy, BUT
I fell in love (head-over-heels) with this series, and I can't stand to hear anyone bad-mouthing it.  This really is my favorite Zorro ever.
It was kid-friendly, fun-loving, and clean.  Yes, clean.
The whole romance that Zorro has with Victoria is never "sexed" (something I think has become banal in today's television).  There is a deep responsibility, unshakable loyalty, and an incredible appreciation of sacrifice woven throughout the series.
The main plot is simple - 1. Tyrant takes over pueblo 2. A young man (not too hard on the eyes) just arriving home from an overseas university finds two of the three people in his life in danger, so he disguises himself and (with the aid of his close friend) rescues the people (his father and a young lady he fancies) and gives hope to everyone in the pueblo 3. The lady he rescues falls in love with the hero (but not the young man) 4. He spends the rest of the series trying very hard to protect the pueblo from injustice (while not getting caught), which keeps him at a distance from the people he's sworn to protect.
Other Positives: 1. The alcalde has an impressive (clean) vocabulary.  He uses big words, but in context, which I, as a child, really enjoyed.  2. While Zorro is always ready to protect the innocent, he values life and goals that his sword "will never draw blood."  Even in their imperfect justice system, the bad guys are turned over to the law. 3. The series was used as a part of Cable in the Classroom, and (while it makes some of the series less historically accurate) Zorro solves some of the most difficult situations using scientific principles. 4. There is a wide list of guest stars (for example: Andre the Giant, Adam West, Roddy Piper, and others). 4. Zorro's horse Toranado can make a horse-admirer (if not an all-out horse lover) out of anyone.
After the series ended, so many of us waited for what seemed like a day that would never come.  I would like to thank A & E and everyone else who made it possible for these to be on DVD.