My main quarrel with this cinematic abortion is the original comics.  Shame that so few people will know what I mean.  They were filled with wall-to-wall violence, macabre, and deliciously tounge-in-cheek insanity.  The Mask was ruthless, dark, yet still had that sardonic comical wit in the most extreme of situations.  Most of all, the stories of the wearers were involving (at least as long as Arcudi and Mahnke were on board.)  The first movie was a departure, but worked very well in its own way.

Maybe some people don't care, but that's what made this movie an insult.  So far detatched from any of the grit of the comics or the playful yet mature attitude of the Jim Carrey endeavor.  Even though New Line and Dark Horse appear on the credits for production/distribution, this thing should be considered infringement.  It has no right to be associated with either rightful Mask franchise.

Jamie Kennedy was great in the Scream movies, but his donning of The Mask is painful, complete with plastic red hair.  A baby with the Mask's powers is abhorrent on all levels.  But why stop there?  Throw in a sappy, by-the-numbers father-son acceptance subplot between Loki and Odin for good measure.  And how about a car that looks like it was designed by the Roger Rabbit animators on ketamine?  Oh, by the way, most of the movie revolves around the superpowered baby, Kennedy's character dealing with it as a stay-at-home dad, as well as its outlandish scuffles with the family dog.

The budget was listed around $100 million when it first came out, $74 million nowadays.  With that money, you think they could've instead hired more a more suitable cast, a scribe that wasn't a noname children's cartoon staff writer, and a director other than the helmer of "Cats and Dogs."  Nothing works here.  The great Alan Cumming does his best with what he has.  Unfortunately, his efforts to salvage this pile are a bust and the concept was ultimately doomed.

PROTIP: If you want to take a Mask movie in the same Tex Avery direction as the Jim Carrey flick, then either get Jim Carrey or change the direction completely.  But Jim Carrey refuses to do sequels, so there.