The film Boodock Saints can be considered a cult classic, but this title also hurts it. Many people do not look past the language or the sheer impossibility of these circumstances ever happening. This film is fun to watch, has quirky lines and situations, and even has a moral.
Brothers Connor and Murphy exemplify true Bostonian Irishmen. They drink, smoke, and go to church...all in the same day while saying numerous explitives. But their intentions and hearts are pure. They may seem like stupid immigrants, but they show their intelligence in the interrogation scene. They converse in five different languages, telling the detective that their mother wanted them to be well-rounded. It's hard to believe that these so-called scumbags could be intelligent, but the movie's purpose, after all, is to break down barriors.
There are many characters in which make the movie what it is. Detective Paul Smecker serves as most of the comic relief, listening to opera at crime scenes. The fact that he is uncharacteristically gay makes him even more funny. Rocco also brings stupidity into the mix, along with a penchent for not thinking and slutty women.
The best part about this movie is the culture it brings to life. The boys continuously use Roman Catholic prayers and even Latin. Connor and Murphy have tattoos on their hands, stating "veritas" and "aequitas," which mean truth and justice, respectively. They continually use the Latin for "In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen." usually shooting their victim on the word "Amen." The ritual that they perform of crossing their victim's arms and putting coins in their eyes represents that the killing was religious and necessary. Another interesting fact is the quote from Dante's Inferno which appears on the door to a club in which they are performing a killing. "Abandon hope, ye who enter here" is written in blood, signifying more knowledge of culture.
The moral of the movie is that these boys are taking on a God-like persona by killing the people they feel are evil. The police know this is happening, and even facilitate it because they know it is right to do. This film brings to light the idea of a stricter death penalty and other punishments, along with civilian heros. Plus, the music is good...who could hate Dropkick Muphys?