Countless times during the 25 years I've been alive, I've heard someone older than me sigh nostalgically and comment, "they just don't make 'em like they used to" with regards to contemporary cinema.  And I have to agree in terms of objective fact, but not in spirit.  No, they don't make movies like they used to, and as far as I'm concerned, that's to the good- I much prefer movies made from 1965 on, for the most part.  However, there are certain films, such as Rear Window, that you recognize could never be made in this era where special effects, short attention spans, and cheap thrills, dominate the suspense/horror genre, and you have to sigh nostalgically, even if, like me, you weren't alive during the period of cinema for which you are yearning.  Fortunately, you can pop in the excellent DVD release of this classic Hitchock film anytime you like and be taken back to a time where, indeed, they still made movies like they used to.
I don't see how you could not like this film.  As far as the acting goes, James Stewart is great as the crusty photographer with a broken leg and nothing to do but spy on his neighbors.  Meanwhile, the female lead, Grace Kelley, has the best role in the film, and she assumes it brilliantly.  Grace plays the woman of every man's dreams: heart-breakingly beautiful, kind, smart, and, as we find out in the film's climax, tough as nails.
That said, the real star of this film is Hitchock, who once again advances the art of filmmaking with his unique sense of macabre and technical expertise.  The story here is mainly existential rather than suspenseful.  The act of violence around which the film is centered is the most chilling example of the darkness of modern/postmodern existence, but each apartment into which James Stewart looks provides both James and the viewer with some very dark insight into the pain, the banality, and the frustration and isolation, that has become ingrained into life as we know it.  Now, how many suspense films can you name that are philosophically profound in addition to dramatic?
Finally, the DVD version is sweet.  I don't care much for extras, but the documentary is interesting.  Meanwhile, the sound and picture of the film itself won't give Terminator 2 a run for its money, but are both fantastic in DVD adaptation, especially given the period during which the film was made.
In sum, see Rear Window many, many times.  That goes for those you who already have seen it many times, as well as for those of you have never watched it.  Maybe they'll never make another Rear Window, but hey, you couldn't pop the film into your DVD player and lounge on your sofa cuddled with your loved one, pet, or bottle of beer, back in 1954, now, could you?