Yes, with Family Guy on the Adult Swim schedule for some time now and the ensuing firework ratings, Fox realized its stupid mistake and will be returning it soon. But, really, it shouldn't have cancelled it in the first place. Fox is already a network with dull, listless shows (uh, e.g. THAT 70'S SHOW!!) and Seth MacFarlane comes along and creates a jewel for them to only disregard because of fear and public pressure. Nice.

The 3rd season is even a more polished specimen than the first and second. Once more, we return to Quahog, Rhode Island to meet with the typical dysfunctional family on the block--reminiscent of The Simpsons but better. Peter Griffin, the man of the house and unofficial village idiot; his wife Lois, who gave up a family fortune to marry this fellow (what a woman will do for a man); festively plump Chris, who is just crying out for meds but has a gift for art; daughter Meg, the insecure teenage girl who wants nothing more than to fit into the popular clique at school; Brian, the family dog with a dry wit and admiration for culture; and of course, the Antichrist himself, baby Stewie, who entered the world with a festering hate for Lois ("Damn you, woman!") and a desire to take over the world. Stewie may be the best character on the whole show but this doesn't bring down the rest of colorful characters.

No episode is like the other; everything you ever heard of is in this show. It doesn't necessarily go for cheap laughs, though there are few exceptions. Full of witty repertoire, pop culture pot shots, political and historical satire, and just plain stupid humor, Family Guy is nothing short of brilliant and well-thought out. The main thing to remember is the aim of this show is to make you laugh, its COMEDY, its SATIRE. If you get offended, if you think its stupid or trash, you're basically an idiot and close-minded who needs to get a reality check because you must live in some shut-up world to not see that the world is full of mishaps, absurdities, blockheads, and disasters: You might as well laugh at them.