I found John Hughes&#65533; 1985 movie The Breakfast Club to be an extremely generalized, heavy handed, piece of trite filmmaking that may or may not have been relevant to teenagers fifteen years ago, but is certainly nowhere near on target now.
 Obviously it was by design that his five main characters were one-dimensional character sketches of so-called &#65533;traditional&#65533; high school stereotypes.  You have Andy the jock (Emilio Estevez), Claire the princess (Molly Ringwald, a John Hughes staple), Bender the criminal (Judd Nelson), Brian the nerd (Anthony Michael Hall), and Allison the basket case (Ally Sheedy).  In my opinion, for Hughes to insinuate that these five people come from completely different backgrounds and had absolutely no contact with each other or anyone else from their particular &#65533;type&#65533; during school is just plain silly.  For example, it is quite likely that Claire and Andy, being popular people, would know each other, or at least that princesses and jocks would interact on a regular basis.  Same thing goes for Bender and Allison as social outcasts.  Only Brian, being the brain, would logically be shunned by all other classes.
For another thing, these categories have little relevance today because in today&#65533;s modern society, and indeed this has always been true, teens simply cannot be categorized and labeled, even by their peers, in this manner.  I myself saw elements of my personality in every one of the characters, and neither I nor anyone I know would fit neatly into these stereotypes.
 The last thing I&#65533;m going to gripe about in this review is, logically enough, the ending.  For a film that tried so hard to be edgy, the denouement was awfully hackneyed and predictable.  Four out of the five characters hook up at the end?  Gosh, I never saw that coming!  Also, the treatment of Allison was laughable.  This girl has serious psychological issues that have been with her all her life, but all she needs is a little makeup, a nice dress, and a clean-cut boyfriend to set her to rights?  I don&#65533;t think so, pal.  Willful suspension of disbelief is all fine and good, but to trivialize Allison&#65533;s pain and emotional trauma in this manner is irresponsible and does a disservice to those young people who do identify with her character.  I think that&#65533;s enough bashing for this film; while it had its moments, it certainly is by no means the &#65533;classic&#65533; that it is reputed to be.