First off, there is some African American parody in the movie which reminded me of some late 70's TV shows like the kid who would say Dynomite! It is NOT racist and no, I'm not white and my wife and I are 50+ in age. They just exaggerate some things trying to keep you off balanced and entertained and I say this also as someone educated in race relations with the paper on the wall to back it up. My African American friends would not be offended, when I get a chance to show them this, they'll be laughing and will say things like....that is SO bad!!! Oh no they didn't just do THAT! LOL!

Imo, these type of movies are meant strictly to entertain with visual shock and trying to give you something you haven't quite seen before, something different and unusual so you wonder, Ok...what's next?!?!.

This movie accomplished it. The special effects were better than other Tokyo Shock types we've watched. The title is so hokey you're forewarned...but....
yes BUT
This wasn't bad. It was actually pretty good considering others we've seen like Machine Girl etc. My wife and I roared at some of the action scenes. It was worth buying and having and would be fun to watch again in mixed company with friends.

It was exactly what I expected for the genre and a bit more. It was definitely entertaining and my wife didn't complain and we enjoyed it for what it was.
You don't watch a movie like this for its plot, but you can actually appreciate the artistic quality the director is trying to achieve, especially with tossing things out at you that are unpredictable which adds entertainment value. Then you get the added benefit of the movie setting it's own rules as opposed to following the same old Frankenstein & Vampire themes and rules. I'll tell you no more so I don't spoil it.

Plus sometimes I have to wonder at the minds that think up some of this stuff trying to surprise us.  I don't know about you, but we get this stuff because we want to be entertained with something we haven't quite seen before.
If you're laughing and keeping up with the movie...you ARE entertained.

Also, I thought the dubbing was very well done. We like dubbed movies so we aren't distracted from the movie reading the dang subtitles. When the dubbing is well done, it adds to the quality of the movie.

The special effects were pretty darn good as well.

So if you like other Tokyo Shock type stuff, get this, you'll have fun!
If Tokyo Shock is so-so for you....I'll still bet you'll have fun with this movie.