Unlike most of the other reviews, I have not seen any of the other incarnations of the novel, nor have I read the actual novel. I saw the preview for this movie and it piqued my interest.  I saw the movie first in the theater and, like most people, was blown away by Will Smith's performance.  (I know that horror movies are rarely in contention for Oscar's, but I feel Will's performance was Oscar worthy.)  The movie itself was very good, although in the theatrical version, i wasn't totally clear on the reason for 'Fred' being moved, and from that point on, the theatrical version for me was not as great as it could have been.  Maybe my imagination failed me that day in the theater.
Then i purchased the two-disc version.  i was BLOWN AWAY by the 'alternative' version.  Keeping in mind I have not read the novel or seen the other versions, the 'alternative version' on this DVD package was the story I was hoping to see.  This time, with clearer understanding of the events that happen after (and around) the 'Fred' incident, the movie did not let go.  This again shows that studio execs. do NOT understand the movie going audience.  I do not see this ending as 'controversial', but rather hopeful.  The Alpha Male's actions lend hope to the society of vampires/Zombies...maybe not in the 'cheesy all's well that ends well' kind of ending hollywood is known for, but in a 'this is the way life has progressed, lets make the best of it' kind of way.  Yes, this movie does borrow from stories like  28 days later, but (like 28 days) has the desire to show that life is not a hollywood 'romanticized' ending, but a real world where life happens and humanity must learn to adapt.
As far as the CGI effects for the vampires/zombies, I feel they enhanced (both) versions of the story.  I did not feel they were a distraction or even noticeable, other then knowing now-adays, CGI is the way to produce these kinds of effects.  Think about it : would it have been better to see human/stunt men perform some of the movements, which would have made teh monsters HUMAN and thereby fallible, or CGI i them, making them capable of superhuman actions.  And that effect also shows the juxtaposition of the movie - while Robert (Smith) continues to 'live' in a real world, the zombies have 'evolved' to a new realm, creating a heigherarcy he cannot compete with.