I agree this movie didn't receive the promotion and good reviews it deserved and I think I know why.  Hollywood loves an action film and Michael Bay certainly delivered the action.  Almost mind-numbingly so.  But between the scenes of mayhem, the movie quietly addressed some profound issues about human life.  Slavery, abortion, eugenics, stem cell and other human genetic research, the Holocaust, almost any subject that deals with the questions of when is something (or someone) alive? when is it considered human? when does it deserve to continue? and, most importantly, who gets to decide?  The ending was decidedly, for lack of a better term, PRO-life.  By that I mean it came out on the side of "when in doubt, err on the side of life."  (And I enjoyed the "Lincoln freeing the slaves" metaphor of the ending.)

Hollywood may love action and mayhem but its postmodernist worldview is definitely NOT pro-life.  To sacrifice the weak and helpless so that the strong can live longer or better or without complications is something that has become accepted without thought and Hollywood bears some responsibility for this.  Movies and television are the primary medium for storytelling for our time.  It is able to shape and pass on worldviews the way storytelling has for millenia.  Perhaps even more powerfully because of the technology, music and popularity of the stars.  Because of this, I think movies that ask questions and at least attempt give both sides of an argument, which The Island did reasonably well, can help us to think long and hard about what we are doing, what we believe and why we believe it.

Hollywood usually only gives one side or so stacks the deck in favor of one side as to make it inevitable that we will accept the worldview they want to promote.  I happened to see The Island the same week I rented Million Dollar Baby. MDB stacks the deck so powerfully in favor of the one side that it manipulates the viewer emotionally into accepting one character killing another character as a good thing. Even though I recognized what the filmmakers were doing, my emotions were still effected.  Seeing the two movies within days of each other was quite a contrast.

Hollywood will still make movies from the postmodernist worldview, and I'll even enjoy many of them.  But it's refreshing to have movies that present the other side of the issues in an entertaining and respectful manner.  I hope that we will see more movies with the worldview of The Island and that those of us who share that worldview will make a point to go out and see them.