The fireworks go off and Jim Ross, Jerry Lawler and The Coach welcome us to Vengeance from Las Vegas!

Match 1 Shelton Benjamin vs Carlito Intercontinental title

This match was 'cool'. A bit too long in my personal opinion and also a little boring in parts, but solid action from the 2. The end sees Carlito cheat and roll up Benajmin again. 7/10

Match 2 Victoria vs Christy Hemme

That Christy's a feisty little lady. Not much here similar to her match against Trish at Wrestlemania and yet again Christy loses. 5/10

Match 3 Kane vs Edge w/Lita

I love Kings line in the video package Kane just got screwed by his own wife! This was a suprisingly good match with a fun ending including Snitsky getting hit in the head by that 'damn' briefcase and Edge gets the chokeslam for Kane to win the match. 8/10

Match 4 Kurt Angle vs Shawn Michaels

Now as much as I love Shawn Michaels I really do sometimes get bored of his matches. This however was not one of those matches!High paced and hard hitting action for most of this 20+ mins. The end saw Shawn hit Kurt with a bit of Sweet Chin Music. 9/10

Lilian Garcia, Viscera and Godfather segement.

Being about 15 minutes long this needed to be in my review. Firstly Lilian and Viscera come out and then Lilian sings to Vis a special song. Then Lilian proposes and suddeny THE GODFATHER appeared with lots of HOS. They danced around a bit and eventually Viscera chooses the HOS over Lilian and he and Godfather rode the HO TRAIN out of the arena. 6/10

Match 5 John Cena vs Y2J vs Christian WWE Title.

Ahh its good to have Cena on Raw. I hope he starts battle raps again, I'd love to see Jim Ross Rap!! Great match my personal favourite of the evening and Earl Hebners last PPV referreing! A greta move in the match similar to the triple threat at Unforgiven 2003 a double powerbomb superplex. John Cena gets the win when he picks Christian up for the FU and kicks Jericho in the face. 10/10

Match 6 HHH vs Batista Hell in a cell World Heavyweight belt

Another great match although I miss the old days when superstars would go outside the cell and fight on top of it! Better than there other encounters and a nice use of a barbed wire wrapped chair. The end comes as HHH is picked up for the powerbomb and HHH tries to use the sledgehammer but to no evail. 10/10

Overall well worth the buy and to keep in your collection.