It's a brilliant movie really; romantic, funny, intelligent and sad, as well as historical.  John Reed was a confused American, or perhaps just an inspired one.  His real battle was for the American working man, an underpaid, over-worked breed of Americana who helped form this nation.  Reed really just believe, if you break it down into bare essence, that men should be treated fairly.  He was labeled a communist, and probably believed himself to be one on some level, but his views were really more socialistic.  This was his basis, and that basis took him to Russia, where he became an unwitting spokesman for the communist regime, his words twisted and translated to meet the Party's needs.  His heart was just with the working man, and a misguided feeling that life should be fair.  His writing speaks for itself--read "Ten Days that Shook the World".  Ah, but there's more behind Reed's Russian connection, far more.  He, along with the people who formed his circle of friends, was a bohemian in all respects.  They were people of art, and of talent, intellectual artists in their own right, and far ahead of their time.  The movie touches upon it, and leads one to want to learn more about the man, and his time.  His relationships with Gene O'Neill and Louise Bryant goes far beyond what is portrayed, but the movie does at least give one the insight into those relationships.  In their time, Reed, Bryant, and O'Neill did much in America for American writers, and for American theatre.  They were all people of art, and of deep emotion.  In a time of growing comformity, they tossed comformity aside.  Their lifestyles were not the lifestyles of "proper people" of the time, but they gave great emotion to merely living, and to living each day as it came.  Each of them touched this world in some way, left something of themselves behind, and that's what Reds is really all about...what one leaves behind.  John Reed is the only American ever buried in the Kremlin...hardly a matter to be left a faded shade in history.  His belief was strong, and he stood by those beliefs, and that's something that most of us never achieve in the long run of things.
It's a good movie, and worth seeing, and worth remembering.