It's a great and fascinating film, but Stone should have framed it up more as a trip into one man (Jim Garrison's) mind rather than what it becomes: an authoritative litany of supposedly factual evidence.  Subtlety and understatement are _not_ this film's strong suites.  You start detecting a relentless one-sidedness that could have been alleviated by presenting both sides of the coin.. for instance, many people went on record as hearing more than 3 shots fired, some from the direction of the rail yard, but couldn't someone quip "with all the tall buildings in Dealy Plaza, there must have been lots of echoes and accoustical artifacts".  Or when Sutherland relates that the D.C. phone system went dead for an hour immediately after the shooting he could have added ".. or maybe this was just from a sudden overload of calls, I don't know".

This picture is still visually and technically remarkable although some techniques, such as the unsteady slo-mo with tracer effect have been mimicked and made passe by reality TV.  Casting was great but more true-blue southerners in some of the high profile roles (esp. Garrison) would have been good, for more authenticity in accents and chemistry of interaction.

After first seeing "JFK" in 1991 I remember feelings of outrage and that my eyes had been opened to the way "things really are".  The second time around, I did notice in the opening credits that the film is based on a couple of books, one by Garrison, and this clued me in to the fact that this film is a journey into Garrison's world, however monomaniacal and obsessionist it may be.  Stone should have taken more opportunites to make this distinction clear.

What sticks with me after viewing "JFK" this time around, is the laughable lack of security for the Dallas motorcade, then after the shots were fired the cascade of chaos, human error, and implausible coincidence.  A lot of Garrison's theorizing and Mr. X's monologue seem obsessionist and half-baked (kind of like those intense conversations from your pot-head days that seemed so profound at the time but then incoherent when you think back later).

My money is on this scenario: that the assassination was planned and done by a motley fringe group of individuals including Oswald, who had ties to rightist Cuban exiles and indirectly to low-level CIA; that the shots went crack, crack, crackBANG with the 4th shot coming from the rail yard; that the behavior at Parklawn, Bethedsa, and by LBJ and the Warren Commission was not an orchestrated coverup but independent reactions of officials who saw red flags and inconsistencies but felt, in the heat of the moment, that the whole episode had to be put behind as quickly and cleanly as possible to avoid a descent into a national state of anarchy.  From our comfortable, relatively stable vantage point in the year 2005 this seems like about the worst thing they could have done, but I guess you had to have been there.