This is a first-class FILM based on a Shakespeare play. As always, there's heavy pruning of the lines, but what we're left with is well served by the actors, the authentic medieval setting, and the medium of film itself. This MACBETH is gorgeously staged and performed. Is it violent? Sure -- but so are a lot of other films these days. Why should this be different just because it's Shakespeare?

Let's face it: Macbeth is a dark, bloody and -- at its heart -- nihilistic story. Can we really believe that Scotland will live happily ever after just because the usurper is dead? Shakespeare raises that question at the end, very subtly, and Polanski picks up on it. What I particularly liked here was the emphasis on how quickly ambition can poison the mortal mind, and how one's fate can turn in an instant. There's a thin line between good and evil, between the real and the unreal.

My Shakespeare professor back in college ridiculed certain details of the film, such as the mysterious dagger witnessed by Macbeth actually appearing on the screen for the audience to see. The idea, as he believed it, is that the dagger is a merely a product of Macbeth's fevered imagination, therefore WE shouldn't be able to see it. But I like how Polanski makes one wonder what the dagger really is. Is it a hallucination? Or the product of some darker force? Polanski's whole take on the story balances on a question -- what is the true nature of evil?

Finally, I want to address all those affronted viewers who have been shaken to their core by what seems to be the most horrific sight of all: the images of naked older women. Please. Get a grip. Those are just bodies. Maybe if Hugh Hefner had really been in charge we'd have had nubile Playboy bunnies standing in as the witches but, alas, he was just the money man, not the director.

Polanski's witches were actually another authentic detail -- even back in those days, the idea of old women going "skyclad" was a sure sign of evil. Nine hundred years later, people's perceptions haven't changed a bit.