One of my all-time favorite films!

I echo reviewer D. Knouse sentiments (excellent review, by the way) when he said, "One of the deciding factors I use to determine whether or not I will purchase a DVD is, 'How many times will I want to see this film?' Well, as far as this DVD is concerned I'm nearing the double-digits in viewings."

I completely concur!

First of all, Josh is just adorable and what the other reviewers have said is so true about the genius of the game and the interplay of the characters.  However, what I found especially appealing is the frustration of the father.  As a father of five, I found myself connecting with this character, Fred (Joe Mantegna).  Fatherhood is an "on the job" training experience.  Most people fail to understand how frustrating it is to attempt to be the perfect father. Fred is searching for the right mix; how much to push his prodigy son, when to pull back, etc.  Of course he is frustrated!

I really felt that this film portrays what anyone would say is a typical loving father in a VERY atypical situation without a roadmap to direct his way.  He is trying his best, knowing his best may not be good enough, yet he continues trying!

Personally, I thought that the mother, Bonnie (Joan Allen), simply did not fully grasp the greatness of her son and so unjustly dismissed the coach.

The coach (Ben Kingsley) who was attempting to re-create the genius Bobby Fischer, simply did not realize that an even greater genius sat before him - a genius that could master AND enjoy the game while still maintaining a BALANCED life.  Of course, this realization finally dawns on the coach as he watches Josh's final play of the match.

This film demonstrates that the true victory in life is the friendships and relationships we have one with another.  Victory can be found not in achieving continual successes, but in the value of learning from our defeats and mistakes; for we are human and if success is not always guaranteed in life, failure is inevitable.