Unless you are a die-hard PotC fan, don't waste extra money on the 2-disc Special Edition thinking it will have hours of extras, behind the scenes, and other extraneous material.  It doesn't.  With all the features combined, it doesn't even amount to an hour's worth of material.  Just buy the standard Pirates 3 DVD, and save $15.00

Unlike the Pirates 2 DVD, there is NO Making-Of Documentary, which was a major letdown.  The featurettes on the Pirates 3 DVD are short, and moderately interesting.  "The Making of Sao Feng's Map" ??  Yeaah.. greaaat.

How about some background on the many visual effects (Davy Jones, the Black Pearl flipping underwater, Callypso's transformation, the meeting of the two fleets in battle, etc).  Instead we get featurettes that are lacking, somewhat boring, and utterly short.

I don't know if it was a budget thing, or what, but most movies with the production scale of Pirates 3 put a camera crew behind the scenes for a mind-blowing making-of.

As for the film itself, it is not as good as Pirates 1&2.  They tried to do WAY too much in terms of story.  There are far too many characters, storylines, and plot twists.  Captain Jack hops through the plot like a game of hopscotch, befriending and betraying just about every character with a speaking role.  By the end of the movie, it is tiring, and ultimately detaches the viewer from the overall plot.

Elizabeth's journey in Pirates 3 is unrealistic, even for a fictional movie.  You get the feeling that the writers really had no ideas for her character within the framework set by the first movie, so came up with some radical ideas on the fly to try and keep Keira's presence in the film strong.

Will's individual journey to redeem his father and get revenge on Davy Jones is yet another plot thread which detracts from the overall story.

And just when you think the movie can't get anymore intricate, the writers decide to throw the Callypso plot thread in.  This doesn't even make sense for the overall story, aside to create the Maelstrom in which there is a 20-minute sequence in.  Why couldn't the Maelstrom be created naturally?

I am a huge pirate fan, and fan of the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise, but ultimately, I was letdown by the conclusion of this trilogy.  I did not leave the theater going, "Wow.  That was amazing."  I actually couldn't wait for the film to end.  There was too much thrown in, between the many plotlines, constantly shifting alliances between the characters, Callypso, the Brethren Court, Davy Jones, World's End, etc etc etc.  My feelings are that the Writers were flying blind (this is evident in the 2nd Pirates Movie, when Gore Verbinski was days from shooting and the Writers had NO SCRIPT.)  I can picture them panicking and throwing together this mish-mash of a plot which in some cases contradicts the framework laid out in the 1st movie.

People say that there is a chance for a Pirates 4.  In this age of sequels, I wouldn't doubt it.  I just hope they return to the basics and don't try to do insanely huge epics with so many plot turns that the audience actually begins to wish the film would just end.  Pirates 1 was the perfect film.  They should have stuck to that format.

3 stars.