My brother and I stumbled upon this movie perhaps ten years ago, and it has stuck with us ever since. We were children at that time- I was maybe ten and he seven, which goes to say that our memories weren't so hot during that time, but we remembered this movie with a chilling eeriness. It hit me so much that it actually wormed its way into my dreams at times, and I began to mix it with fantasy rather than reality, since the video disappeared completely after we viewed it, never to be seen again. But we never forgot it, which is instant proof of just how powerful it was.
My brother stuck with the hope of finding this movie again, and he did. He found it, we purchased it from Amazon, and when I watched it again, it's impossible to recount what was going through me. I swear every hair on my arms and neck stood on end when Ada- the grandmother- grabs Niles's head and turns it towards his twin brother Holland's grave. Suddenly everything made sense. Nobody ever talked to Holland except for Niles. Poor Niles was so traumatized by his twin's death that he chose to play "The Game" every day, thinking his twin was still there when he wasn't. Except it wasn't a game anymore.
"The Omen" and "The Exorcist" doesn't even begin to compare with this truly, truly disturbing and psychological film. Sure, the films have a terror all of their own, but they deal with Satan, who gets to be grossly overrated in media nowadays. This is a story of pure trauma and parapsychology, and what's so disturbing about it is that Niles couldn't help it, the horror was all too real for him to deal with. I can't exactly pin down this film, all I can say is that it will stay with you for a very, very, very long time. I still can't get why this film doesn't have a more promising effect on the general public. That the entertainment industry chooses to promote hackneyed and seriously vacuous movies (not films)such as "I Know What you did Last Summer" and "Scream" and just gloss over "The Other" is hardcore proof that the media moguls really don't know what the hell they're doing...