It is as much a mistake as it is inevitable to compare this television adaptation to the 1965 David Lean film.  I adore the Lean film. However, my affection for it doesn't diminish my appreciation of this television version directed by Giacomo Campiotte.  There are no epic vistas, the architecture is less grand the camera is closer, which may be as much a limitation of the medium as it is an artistic vision but which ever it is, it works.
There is more time in a television miniseries, time to explore nuances that have to be lost in the shorter film. We see closely the horrors of the First World War and the subsequent Revolution in Russia. These are not mere backdrops, but powerful environments that mold, in many ways, the fates of the characters, chief of which in the popular imagination is Larisa Antipova, Lara.
I do not think it should be held against Kiera Knightly, as some have done, that she is not Julie Christy. Kiera Knightly doesn't play her as a pure victim;  this Lara is a survivor. She was not seduced by Komorovsky. She decided to do what was needed. Komorovsky was a powerful man and she needed to keep him interested in the welfare of her family. That consciousness, that distancing, paradoxically, allows her to retain her innocence. It also makes her a more complex character, less radiant, perhaps, but more accessible.  It is not lust that moves her, nor is it helplessness.  Zhivago is quite right in saying he could not have loved her if she had no regrets, for even though she loathed Komorovsky, yet she did enjoy his sexual talents as long as she had to endure them.
Lara is a catalyst. Like the novel, like Mother Russia herself, Lara's character takes on the essence of how she is perceived and interpreted by the men in her life. There is a line in the Lean film where Zhivago shows Lara a poem about her. She says, "This is not me; it's you." To Komorvsky, she is a slut. To Pasha, she is a despoiled woman. To Zhivago she is an earthy saint. To herself, though, she is all of these and more. For this interpretation of her character, Kiera Knightly is perfect.
There are few, if any, sour notes among the actors.
The use of actual footage of the Russian Revolution may have been dictated by budgetary considerations, but it is also an excellent artistic choice, fully grounding the story in history and providing an authentic environment to contain the story.
Now, I wish the Russian version of this wonderful story were available with English titles.