It was nice to see the old series again. I haven't seen an episode since it's original run back in the day. It will take most fans a while to get thru this entire set of 17 Discs, with each episode over 50 minutes. The Series ran for 2 seasons and almost plays out like 2 DIFFERENT SHOWS in each season. The first season was more in the thought provoking slower paced British style of Sci Fi at the time with some great acting. Then in season 2 they felt like they needed to revamp the show, and it became more Action Packed & Faster Paced with more Creatures & Aliens than you can shake a stick at. They also added a Sexy Female alien in the 2nd year who had the ability to shape shift, making things even more interesting.
Since they are so different, even with the same old Moonbase Alpha as their home base, I can't pick One season over the other. I like them both and thought they were both relatively successful in what they were trying to accomplish. One thing I HATED was the dropping of certain main characters from Season one without even an explanation, with Barry Morse as Professor Victor Bergman being the Prime example. They also dropped Paul who appeared to be second in command and had a relationship going with Sandra, which added to the storylines occassionally.
Speaking of Sandra, she showed up for some of season 2 but just didn't seem to be as involved in things, more like a Prop.  Because of his huge popularity, they were forced to bring back Alan to the show for most of the season. The additions of Maya, and Chief Security Officer Tony, were indeed fine additions, especially adding their own romantic relationship to things. The 2nd season also went for some more (sometimes successful) Humor,such as Tony's ongoing attempt to create his own special beer recipe on Alpha with not so good results.
As for the storys, Most of them were very good or at least interesting, for Both Seasons. Hard to watch too much in marathon sittings, I found it more enjoyable watching a handful of episodes a week.
Finally, I should mention that the extras were pretty weak. There were a few VERY SHORT interviews w/actors and special f/x artists, and then a bunch of rehashed junk - Like the Season 2 Previews where they gave a ton of versions which were EXACTLY IDENTICAL except for the TV Station Call letters. And also the old fallback for when you have no extras, Pictures/Images from scenes of the episode you just finished watching....OK, there were a handful of Promo pictures thrown in as well, but the majority were from the episodes.
Bottom Line, Not as good as the Classic Star Trek Series, But Probably sits on the next tier down like Lost in Space or the Original Battlestar Galctica. I had waited a long time to see this series, since it retailed for around $150 for the 17 disc set for years, but when It finally came down to under a third of that, an excellent value, It was time to revisit Moonbase Alpha.