I have seen both the movie and the stage version of Rent.  I love both of them.  But, we're here to talk about the movie.  I love the fact that most of the original cast is back for this.  Adam Pascal and Anthony Rapp are perfect as Roger and Mark. Adam shows the tortured soul that is Roger.  Finding out he has HIV and dealing with his girlfriend's death puts him in a place he never thought he would be.  Mark, Collins, Angel, and Mimi help him realize that he isn't dead yet. Adam takes you through that journey with all the emotions that entails.  Anthony shows Mark's emotions throughout the piece. The look on his face when he sees that Roger has come out of the house, and come to the Life Support meeting shows you just how much he cares for his best friend, and how worried he was, and still is for him.  Having them in two sepereate locations for "What You Own" also helps the characters and gives the actors a new way of playing the scene.  When they come together on the roof and you see the emotion as they say "I'm not alone," that is when they both come to the realization that they aren't alone and they don't have to be.  And I have both the OBC and Movie soundtracks, and I've got to say their preformances on the movie soundtrack have improved.  How can you not love Wilson Jermaine Heredia as Angel?  He is Angel.  Jesse L. Martin blew me away as Collins.  And if you have seen him in Law and Order, you will love him in this.  Wilson and Jesse together are a terrific pair and to see them portray Angel and Collin's relationship is magic.  I do think Taye Diggs was a little underused, but with having to condense the play to a movie time frame, Benny was the one who would have to suffer.  Idina Menzel rules as Maureen, but neither she nor the actress who I just saw play the part will make me like Over the Moon.  That is not my favorite moment in either the movie or the play.  Now, to the new additions.  In my humble opinion, Rosario Dawson blew Daphne Rubin-Vega out of the water.  I thought Daphne sounded whiny as Mimi, Rosario brought life, depth, and fun to her.  Tracie Thoms as Joanne was a wonderful addition.  I did miss Fredi Walker's voice, but Tracie held her own and made the part hers.  Another reviewer seems to think that Adam Pascal and Idina Menzel are suffering from detoriating voices.  That is not the case.  Adam's preformance, as I said before, exceeded the OBC version.  If you don't like hearing his voice in Rent, then I recommend a change of pace, there is the OBC of Aida and his two solo albums, Model Prisoner and Civilian, that will give you a different prespective. Idina hasn't suffered from her preformance in Wicked, she has improved. I look forward to watching the DVD and the deleted scenes, which from what I understand will include the rest of "Goodbye Love" and "Halloween."  Unfortunatly, "Contact" wouldn't have worked in the movie.  Seeing Collins holding Angel in his arms at the hospital brought you to the same place emotionally as the end of Contact.  I hope that the people who didn't see this in the theater will give it a chance on DVD.  The story line is still relevant.  There are still people living with, and dying from, AIDS.  Jonathan Larson's vision still rings true.  "There's only us, there's only this.  Forget regret, or life is yours to miss.  No other road, no other way.  No day but today."