I just viewed this movie and thought it was very nicely done. I was really surprised (pleasantly) that Clint Eastwood was the force behind the film. As an author/journalist who is married to an intuitive (who recently stopped giving personal readings after two decades) the material was familiar and comfortable, and offered understanding and insight into what those who are in touch with the other side (as well as those who want to be) experience.

I felt the film portrayed many of the emotions and traits of the "psychic," the people in the business of representing the "other side," and the clients quite accurately. Many of the reasons Matt Damon's character gave for stepping away from the needs, dependencies, and emotional demands of people burdened with loss were valid and understandable. While people certainly need help in reaching those who have passed, for an intuitive to deal with grieving, desperate folks every day, knowing that giving them what they may need to hear (from those who have passed) may not necessarily be what they want to hear, this takes a great toll on those who authentically provide this service. The complexities of this situation were well portrayed in the film.

What I especially enjoyed about this film was the way it was set up to offer an example of synchronicity in life, with three disconnected lives that all had wounds from personal tragedies, three seemingly unrelated stories, that, in the end, came together (as they were meant to) to complete pieces of each life's destiny. While one reviewer saw the end as a typical Hollywood ending, I felt it perfectly illustrated how so many events and seemingly chance meetings provide opportunities and perhaps pre-destined openings for us to find our true paths. I felt the two adult main characters would go on to write a better book (as well as a better story for their lives) and this book could not be written without the seemingly chance intersection of all three lives. The boy asked the question, the psychic didn't truly know the answer, the woman had been there, but she needed help to fully round out the experience. All three were important and necessary for the end result to occur.

Just as portrayed in the movie, these events happen every day--every single day--if we are open to recognizing them. I was happy to see that the creators of this film recognize that and found a way to offer that vision to the world, for those ready to embrace it. While many who were looking for action and adventure and typical Hollywood fare seem to feel cheated (evidenced by several reviews on this site), perhaps a second viewing, seeing the film's potential as a story about what is happening beyond the surface of our world (and our lives) would offer a deeper understanding of how naturally synchronicity works, when we are open to it.

Good job to the folks who created and offered this film to the world at a time when it helps us to make sense of tragedy and provides a journey into what is possible if we reach out to each other. For those looking to view an example of the journeys that many are taking at this time (either knowingly or not), this is a nice movie to help with understanding the potential and possibilities for growth.

Those who still need some questions answered, ones that weren't as easily recognized by all viewers in the film, are welcome to discover them at the Answers From Above site (our communicated messages for the world), a free source of hundreds of actual messages from the "other side," many that answer questions like those posed in this movie. I only mention this because the film demonstrates how so many people are searching and are unable to find authenticity in information while on their quest. Answers are out there and few should have to weed through the inauthentic when they need help and solace, especially when people are lost in their grief, just as the young boy in the movie was, as well as the clients chasing after George.

Again, good job Mr. Eastwood and crew. I hope we will see more movies of substance like this in the near future.