This Fritz Lang film was of great interest to me because it includes two actors I would seek out movies just to see them in based on their work in other films: Fritz Rasp, who I was very impressed by his performance in "Warning Shadows" (he was also in "Metropolis"), and Gustav von Wangenheim who was also in "Warning Shadows" and is forever immortalized as Hutter in the Murnau classic "Nosferatu."  "Frau Im Mond" also seemed intriguing because it was a late silent (1929--when technology had evolved quite a bit from the early days) with a science fiction theme.  How did imaginations view space travel and the moon 40 years before the moon landing?  You'll find out here.

First off, this film is LONG.  It's over 2 1/2 hours and, as interesting the storyline and as visually appealing as it was, I couldn't watch the whole thing in one sitting.  It dragged the first time I watch it but, the second time (also in two blocks) I enjoyed it a lot more.  Here's the basic premise of the story without giving away any spoilers:  Head of Helius Flight Hangars, Wolf Helius, (played by Willy Fritsch whose serious look and demeanor reminds me of Richard Barthelmess) visits professor Manfeldt who has just thrown out a man named Turner who wanted a manuscript (the lifelong work of Manfeldt's) as a curiosity.  Played by a 45 year old Klaus Pohl, Manfeldt is made to look like a disheveled old man starving in a hovel.  Decades earlier he was laughed out of his profession when he publicly announced his treatise that there is gold on the moon.  Helius decides he wants to go to the moon to test Manfeldt's theory, so the professor entrusts the manuscript with him.

Meanwhile, as a side issue, Helius finds out his chief engineer, Hans Windegger (Wangenheim), has become engaged to a student of astronomy, Friede Velten.  Foreshadowing that this union might be less than perfect, the engagement ring was too big for even her thumb; what was he thinking? Although Friede means "Peace" in German, she is the center of some tension as Helius is also in love with her and Friede's thoughts seem often preoccupied with Helius even though she accepted the marriage proposal from the impulsive, intense Windegger.

Back to the matter at hand: Turner, who turns out to be quite the master of disguise--gets his hands on the manuscript as well as a spaceship model, plans, film and photos taken from an H32 rocket of the opposite side of the moon from Helius's safe.  Turner, it turns out, is working for a powerful group of four business men and a woman who smokes a cigar who want control of the moon gold.  Turner blackmails Helius into giving him a seat on the ship.

The setting throughout the film is very cool from the super high doors in Helius's apartment complex to the elaborate launch with the frantic crowds, announcer, and huge rocket ship and launching pad not to mention the moon scenes.  There are behind-the-scenes photos showing the making of these sets as a bonus feature on this disc and they are very impressive.  I can't imagine how much money and people it took to create them.  The launch was very creative as the ship was submerged in water because it was so light.  There is also a countdown to launch and off goes the spaceship with Helius, Windegger, Friede, Turner, Manfeldt and his pet mouse Josephine as well as a stowaway they won't find until later. The ship itself has straps throughout the interior for the astronauts to step in during zero gravity (strangely, their hair stays in place).  The effects on space travel on the astronauts' bodies (in casual clothes--I guess they could save money on space suits) are dramatic. Turner has a particularly wrenching time. Once on the moon, what will they find?  I won't give it away but finding gold may be the least of their worries.

The acting is, for the most part, excellent.  Wangenheim (who is known for being a bit overly dramatic in "Nosferatu") doesn't disappoint here.  He really lets the emotions fly.  Rasp, who had an evil streak in "Warning Shadows," is freaky evil in this film.  He dresses like a Fascist and even sports a Hitler haircut!  Hitler hadn't even become Chancellor yet!  Crazy!  (Note:  Wangenheim was a devoted Communist and very anti-Nazi and would defect to the Soviet Union when Hitler came to power).  Gerde Maurus (who played Friede) had a subtle style which worked well for her character who, emotionally, proves the strongest of them all.  All the main actors and director Lang had long careers and, save for Maurus, lived well past middle age.  Most lived to see the actual moon landing.  I highly recommend this movie.  It is worth the time to see the amazing sets, intriguing storyline, and some people's views on space travel when it was still only the subject of fiction.