...with an interesting view on Brazilian politics and drug culture.

Let me say first that Elite Squad 2 has a lot of well written moments. It's paced well, has a long view of its own history, and isn't afraid to mess with its principal and supporting characters.

That said, it sort of suffers from heavy-handedness when it gets political. This is particularly so when we listen to the ridiculous opening speech of Fraga, the seeming enemy of main character and narrator Nascimento. But the same can be said for Nascimento's own comments as we hear his narration of the last few years of his life trying to deal with crime in his own, rather brutal way.

It's funny how the systemic corruption seems harmless at first... the product of a few bad eggs and blowhards teaming together to sway the public and fix elections, but that's how it starts. A few key figures get together and scratch each others' backs... and a new mafia is born. One that has no problem killing honest cops and reporters.

I love how both Nascimento and Braga do their best to remain pure in their own ways and protect the folks around them even as they are besieged both by each other (via their competing interests/politics) and the TRUE enemies, their colleagues in the Military Police and Government.

Cinematography-wise, Elite Squad 2 is pretty sweet, actually. All solid, competent work without relying on CG... gun play that is practical instead of artistic and edits that maintain the chaotic feeling of raids without relying on shakycam or quickcuts.

It's hard not to hate everyone in this film as there are NO innocents. Even Nascimento's son is a little corrupt (for a good cause) and that, to me, is the great message of the film... that, as we codify our vices, we only open the door for the exploitation of the ENTIRE population by a lucky few... yet still, there must be an answer for protecting society from crime. It's an interesting dichotomy that is explored well in this film... concerning the balance of law and freedom when both are co-opted by greedy men.

This example of great Brazilian cinema has me thirsting for more.