Woody Allen's 2010 film You Will Meet a Tall, Dark Stranger is comic, touching, cynical and smart ... but what else is new?  Allen's been making films like this for decades, and although he has evolved as an artist, especially in these last ten or so years (most notably with the somber, sexy thriller Match Point and the rollicking, evocative romance of Vicki Christy Barcelona), this latest work is not a great film ... it's just good enough.

For me, Woody Allen has become a sort of thinking man's John Grisham ... You go into the theater with a clear idea of what to expect, and you walk away more or less satisfied.  He has a film formula that he's rarely wavered from for forty plus years: 2 plus 2, divided by divorce or what have you, equals enough box office success to add the next one to the oeuvre.  At some point though, one must wonder how many films about upper class neurosis can one man possibly make.

The tag line that opens and closes the film is a quote from Shakespeare's Macbeth, famously declaring that life is all "sound and fury; signifying nothing."  Although your typical filmgoer will take issue with the sense of irresolution that surrounds the film's denouement, I personally have no problem with the "signifying nothing," but would have liked a little more sound and fury.  The central problem with this movie (and several other 21st century Allen works) is its dispassion and distance from its characters.  We care what happens to them, just not that much.

Perhaps one of the most interesting plot twists concerns a writer, Roy (played subtly and convincingly by Josh Brolin), who has stolen the manuscript of a supposedly deceased friend, who turns out to be merely in a coma and expected to recover.  I could not help extrapolating from this fiction that perhaps Woody himself, in his obsessive compulsive proliferation of films, has begun stealing his new movies from his old ones, excavating narratives and characters from the graveyard of his former ingenuity.  Sometimes this works: as Match Point works as a re-tooled Crimes and Misdemeanors.  But this latest film is not bold enough-- lacks the necessary sound and fury-- to be anything better than another good enough Woody Allen film.