Well I saw this extended edition when it first aired on Fox years ago as a Universal Theater Special Presentation. It has also been aired on the Sci-Fi channel several times as well. The opening dialogue was not delivered by Princess Irulan, and was longer, giving you more of the history of the universe including the Butlerian Jihad against the machines. The narrator was male, and some say delivered by David Lynch himself, I cannot confirm nor deny this rumor. Another reviewer wrote that the "cut" scenes were cutting room floor junk. That is not true. They are rougher than the theatrical footage but were intended to be part of a 6 hour version with a planned intermission. After several screenings, the 6 hour version was cut to 137 minutes (2 hours 17 minutes) loosing much of Lynch's planned vision of Dune. The 6 hour version was only test screened a few times and never fully re-mastered as it would have been if, sent to the theaters. This is why that added footage appears rougher, as only the film was given the proper processing, the dialogue would have been re-processed if the 6 hour movie had been approved to hit theaters. It was not, and only the 2 hour and 17 minutes of theatrical release footage was properly processed for theater sound. If we were able to see the 6 hour version, I'm sure it would be a great ride, but since the time on this edition is 177 minutes (2 hours 57 minutes) it is likely the same version aired on Fox years ago, where they advertised it as having 50 minutes of extra footage (actually only 40). The opening dialogue is delivered with still paintings of scenes from the past where the machines took over and enslaved the human race. There are some storyboard scenes also in the opening narrative, as the narrator comments on current events. I did like this version and I hope they were able to re-master the additional footage so it better matches the theatrical footage. Some of the sound on the Fox airing was muted and mono, so I hope they were able to fix this as well. It is because of the roughness of the added footage that David Lynch pulled his name off the TV version. Alan Smithee is the Director, in Hollywood, when any director pulls their name off a project he is billed as Alan Smithee. Several other people pulled their names of the TV project also, including the writer and the editor I believe and perhaps a few others as well. They also have names in Hollywood for writers and editors who pull their names from movies, but I forget what they are. On my edition of the Theatrical Release DVD there are some places where the color has faded on the film, particularly when Paul addresses the 100 fremen he will teach the Weirding Way too. In the upper left hand part of my screen (near Paul's head) the film has faded, and was not on the first DVD I had, nor on the VHS tape edition. I hope universal was able to address this problem as I understand that the extended version will offer both the theatrical release and the extended versions. I hope they are on separate discs also as I hate those slight pauses on dual layered DVDs. There is also an alternative ending and other deleted scenes. Of the alternative ending I do hope they show where Thufir passes away as he forgot to milk his cat for the antidote, this is how the book ended. I can't wait to see the other deleted scenes, and I can only imagine what they may contain. All in all you won't be disappointed with this edition, the movie offers more insight into the Dune universe as first imagined by Frank Herbert. The only thing you'll find in the movie that is NOT in the book are the Weirding Modules. Now the Weirding Way IS in the book, and it is this method of fighting that Paul and Jessica pledge to teach the Fremen in order to gain their protection from the Harkonnen who are once again in control of Dune. The Weirding Modules that work through the Weirding Way using thought, sound and motion are an update, and I think they work well in the movie. Paul, after destroying an obsidian obelisk with the Weirding Module-- "This is part of the Weirding Way that we will teach you. Some thoughts have a certain sound, that being the equivalent to a form. Through sound and motion...you will be able to paralyze nerves, shatter bones, set fires, suffocate an enemy or burst his organs. We will kill until no Harkonnen breathes Arakeen air." It is an afterthought yes, but when I read the book, I found it hard to believe that the fremen with simple maula pistols and crysknives could overthrow the Emperor and kill 10 legions of Sardaukar Terror Troops. The Weirding Modules along with the Weirding Way give the Fremen the available power to defeat the Sardaukar and the Emperor, and I find it to be a more believable ending than the book version. Otherwise David Lynch did very well to bring the book (almost word for word) to the big screen. Even the italicized thoughts in the book are realized in the film, giving you the reader/watcher insight into what that character is thinking. Someday hopefully Dino will release the actual 6 hour cut that was the intended vision for us to see. I am sure he's holding onto it, in Hollywood now a days, you don't throw anything away, otherwise you'll have no extras for your movie's DVD release. I hope this review helped you, and please feel free to leave your own comments on top.