I'm a long time Kenshin fan so I was really worried that I would hate this OVA because I had heard that he dies at the end.  Even though he did die, it was not the horribly depressing tearjerker that I expected it to be.
It's the story of Kaoru, who is also sick, reminiscing on her life with Kenshin. The artwork is the best that I have ever seen in an anime film.  There are several flashbacks to things that took place in the series.  They also do a flashback to the incident with Enishi.  I thought that this was a great scene, beautifully drawn and good dialog. Enishi was a much better villain than Shishio because he wasn't completely bad, he had a deep hurt and sadness in his soul over the death of his sister and it helped to humanize him.  He wasn't just a blood-thirsty monster like Shishio. 
There are also some really nice scenes between Kenshin and Kaoru where you really get to see them express their feelings for each other.  Unlike the series, where you were constantly waiting to see some spark of love or romantic attraction, something beyond just friendship.  Finally you see them share some really sweet and tender moments.
This film was not only beautifully animated but also done with great respect to the story line and characters.  The great thing about the Kenshin series is that it (for the most part) was very realistic compared to the typical anime.  With the exception of parts of the last season, there were never any monsters or science fiction elements. It was about real life and in real life people eventually die.  I think that Kenshin's death was fitting for his character.  He did not die in a sword battle like a warrior, because in his heart he wasn't a warrior.  He was a gentle caring man that died peacefully in the arms of the woman he loved, the woman that loved him more than she loved her own life.  I can't think of a better way to pass from this life to the next.  I did shed a tear at the end of this film, not out of sadness but happiness that Kenshin's atonement was finally over and his soul was finally at peace.  It's truly a remarkable piece of anime that every Kenshin fan must see and even a non-fan could enjoy.
****Also, be sure to watch through the credits of part 2.  Afterwards there is a really sweet and uplifting epilogue that you don't want to miss!