Others have outlined the plot of this film, from a 2-part UK miniseries adapted from one of Terry Pratchett's best Discworld novels. So I won't. After watching the not bad but not especially good cartoon adaptations of a couple of PTerry's less important Discworld tales and being warned by friends not to spend money on the live films taken from "Hogfather" and "The Color of Magic/The Light Fantastic"--which I wouldn't have anyhow since I don't consider any of these worthy of the author's finest achievements--I was delightedly shocked that this film was SUPERB! Yes, the book was beautifully crafted, witty, science-fictionally clever and deeply ethical, and the film fulfilled every aspect. Sorry it didn't include some of the good stuff from the novel, but, heck, it's only a little more than 3 hours long, not exactly Bondarchuk's "War and Peace"!

I never saw a more well-casted film. Richard Coyle and Claire Foy were perfect, and had a curious, if chaste, chemistry. (Curious if you know the story.) Ian Bonar, with that ultra-expressive, not quite homely face, just about stole the show, and I could forgive David Suchet for teetering on the edge of overacting, considering how much his hidden monster resembled Bernie Madoff, our Earthworld incarnation of Reacher Gilt, under an affable exterior of con man Moist von Lipwig before his moral rehab. Great to see Sir Terry in the film, too, in a bit part. It must have been filmed not long before his confinement to a wheelchair. But he's proved in his latest novel, "Snuff", that he hasn't lost his touch. The clacks scenes were so authentic I began to wonder why, since the old-time Persians and Romans used semaphore stations, neither of those intellectually rich empires ever got around to inventing it.

Now to await more Discworld novels on live film, starting with, I hope, a really great adaptation of "Guards! Guards!" the first of the Ankh-Morpork Watch stories. (It's no secret that Sam Vimes is most readers' favorite persona, certainly mine.) Then move on to the Witches novels starting with the first appearance of Granny Weatherwax in "Equal Rites" (what happened to co-ed Unseen U afterward?) The better Death novels might do better as good Pixar-type cartoons, although one of my top favorites, "Reaper Man", and perhaps others would transfer well to live film. I hope to see the Sweeper stories filmed, especially "Thief of Time", plus Moist's second adventure, "Making Money" and a prequel to both, "The Truth"--with the same wonderful actress playing Sacharissa. Let the "Going Postal" directing, casting, set design, costuming & FX team make them. In the meantime, don't miss "Going Postal" because any fan of PTerry will find it irresistible!