At last, Almod&oacute;var has created his masterwork with "All About Mother", a film that combines such universal themes as familial  bonding, grief, and forgiveness while including a wicked sense of humor.  Almod&oacute;var tells the story of a mother coming to terms with the death of  her son and her quest to find his father  with an amazing sensitivity.  The  film captures beautifully the strong bond that mothers and sons form when  they are all they have.  The sequence in which Manuela deals with the news  of her son's death is harrowing and extremely touching.  The scenes in  which Manuela acts in service announcements about organ donation reminded  me a lot of the opening scene of another Almod&oacute;var film, "The Flower  of My Secret".  One particularly enjoyable scene is the one in  which La Agrado, Manuela's pre-op transexual friend, tells an entire  theater audience about her life, including how much each surgically  enhanced body part has cost her.  There's a really funny line in that  scene, which goes something like, "It costs a lot to be genuine".  To fully enjoy and appreciate "All About My Mother", one  should see it a few times, because each viewing brings a better  understanding of Almod&oacute;var's intricate script.  For example, it wasn't  until the second viewing that I recognized that the scene that Huma de Rojo  rehearses at the end of the film is from Frederico Garc&iacute;a Lorca's play,  "Bodas de Sangre".  In that particular scene from the play, there  is a monologue that relates really well to the theme of the entire movie.  The character giving the monologue is a mother who has seen her child die.  Her monologue is about the horror that any mother feels upon seeing the  blood of her child on the ground, because that blood belongs to her.  Manuela's grief in the wake of her son's tragic death is of the same kind.  For those who decide to watch "All About My Mother" and  really enjoy it, I strongly recommend seeing Almod&oacute;var's other films,  especially "Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown",  "High Heels" and "Live Flesh".