I came away with mixed feelings about the film on multiple levels, which speaks to its complexity. Previous reviewers have articulated many of the same thoughts as mine. Ed Harris was flawless playing an angry ex-Vietnam vet, one of his finest performances.  Nicole Kidman's acting was excellent, but her efforts to sound American also made her sound stilted and every word took twice as long to be articulated.  Mr. Miller who plays the young Silk and Ms. Smith who plays his mother were so compelling together, they stole the show.  The talented performances by a fine cast, strangely did not work well as an ensemble.

The political correctness theme superimposed on the Clinton/Monica Lewinsky scandal was an annoying distraction.  Yes, political correctness has been used and turned around such that its good intentions became its own destruction.  Here, the word "spook" is used to illustrate how it can be manipulated to make its usage seem ill-intentioned.  That is the argument against political correctness, that we attach moral connotations to words and judge people not by their actions or intentions, but their verbal diarrhea.  But, the deeper issue is the way society creates these moral dilemmas in the first place, which challenges detractors of political correctness.  What ultimately bothered me about this film was the over-moralization of young Silk's choice, which undermined society's role in his choice.  The young Silk was not a sympathetic character, which is reflected in the undercurrent of accusation that all his losses stemmed from his dishonesty.  The irony is that racial prejudice created this conflict for him, and in this instance society bears the bulk of the responsibility.

The interactions of young Silk and his family were so moving, it is a shame that they were given homage only in flashbacks.  The poignant dialogue will be remembered for a long time.  It could have been a great film, but too much time devoted to the older Silk brought it down a notch. The older Silk's relationship with Nicole Kidman's character was overplayed, where it should have just been an interesting sidebar.  The strength of the movie relies on the past so much, it should have stayed there.  But, well worth seeing and an excellent movie overall.