In the seventies Ray couldn't get work, so film buffs began to think that he was a rebel.  He also wore an eyepatch, and eyepatch directors are always cool, aren't they?  Lang, Ford, Walsh, de Toth.  Cool.  This Ray guy?  Nah.

This one mainly offends by its dullness.  Slow, mushy, unstructured, cursed by a pillowy and nonstop score by George Antheil, free of any menace or suspense or villainy.

Bogart is accused of some crime or other and spends the rest of the movie futzing around his apartment. The neighbor girl, Gloria Grahame, falls for him but begins to question if he's really as innocent as he seems.  That's all she does is question; she doesn't do much of anything about it.

This is one heck of a talky film.

As the cops - none of whom can boast even one personality trait among them -  lackadaisically pursue their meandering investigation, Bogart and Grahame sit around and talk about not much of anything.  The seconds tick by.  The viewer listens to the tuneless score.  The cleaning lady comes in and asks to vacuum.  A washed up silent film star makes several unsuccessful bids for audience sympathy.  (I wish he'd been the one who was murdered.)  Bogart makes the dull cop act out the murder and Ray shines a little light into his face, I guess because he'd been impressed by Detour five years earlier.  Time passes... The viewer realizes that since Bogart produced the thing himself he's not likely to be a bad guy anyway so what are we waiting around for?  More time passes...  "It's as much a part of him as the color of his eyes, or the shape of his head."  That one jolts you awake: the shape of his head?!?!  What's that supposed to mean?  We go droningly onwards...  The cop mentions the investigation has been going on for three weeks, and the snarky viewer says "So, it's filmed in real time then?"  More of the lush score; sounds like the Jackie Gleason Orchestra.  More dullness.  Silent-film-actor-dude recites Shakespeare, though there's not much call for a silent film actor to have memorized Shakespeare, now is there.  Drip... Drip...  Drip... Like sands through an hourglass... The viewer reaches for the gin bottle with trembling hand.

I dunno if  this is the worst film in Ray's unimpressive oeuvre - after all he made a lot of bad films - but I do know that except for Sirocco it's the worst film in Bogart's.  Actually, Sirocco got itself quoted in a Dylan song one time, so Lonely Place wins the Razzie by a nose.

If you want to see the cast in movies that don't stink so bad you have to open all your windows to air out the place, then see Gloria Grahame in The Big Heat, Art Smith in Brute Force, Robert Warwick in Silver Lode.  If you want a truly great and underrated example of late Bogart, check out his final picture The Harder They Fall.