I like the expanded version better than the original because we finally get to see Janis Joplin and Jefferson Airplane performing in the movie. Where the director and I disagree is Melanie's brilliant solo "Birthday of the Sun" belongs in the picture, not in "Lost Performances". As far as the rest of the flick for those  unfamiliar or need a refresher. Richie Havens opens the festival with maybe the fastest rhythm guitar work on record - "Freedom"..... Joan Baez high octave reaches the evening skies - "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot".....Crosby, Stills and Nash being scared bleep-bleep - "Suite Judy Blue Eyes"..... John Sebastian, the ultimate hippie in all tye-dye - "Younger Generation"..... Country Joe's anti-war sing-a-long fires up the crowd - "I-Feel-Like- I'm-Fixin'-To-Die-Rag"..... Joe Cocker singing while pretending to play an instrument - "With A little Help From My Friends"..... Santana bringing the "Street Sound" on "Soul Sacrifice" as a bunch of unknowns..... The Who delivering their circus-like show - "Summertime Blues"..... The dancing "Big Bear"of Canned Heat blues rocking um' on "A Change Is Gonna' Come..... Comical Sha-Na-Na who don't fit in - "At The Hop".....  Arlo Guthrie talking about alot of freaks and singing about a custom man - "Coming Into Los Angeles"..... Ten Years After updating 50's, early 60's rock in triple split screen fine form - "I'm Going Home"..... Sly And The Family Stone outrageous funk rock bringng the night audience to its feet- "I Want To Take You Higher".....  Jimi Hendrix shocking just about everybody doing the "Star Spangled Banner" with a heavy dose of feedback.....  The film performances were so good, it became the MTV of its time, creating arena rock for the majority of the players about a year later.  The other key non-music moments were remarks by the concert organizers before and during the festival.....  Wavy Gravy, hog farm leader serving breakast for over 300,000..... Periodic  funny stage announcements in hippie language..... The pro and con opinions from the nearby residents of Bethel, N.Y..... Land owner Max Yasgur addressing and thanking the crowd..... The down to earth port-o-san cleaning man talking about his own kid in the Vietnam War.....  Drenching thunderstorms, heavy use of pot, audience comments and skinny-dipping, happy crowd swimming at the nearby lake.....  Quite simply a three day phenomenon that will never happen again.  Well packaged for movie viewing.  Woodstock was the ultimate free festival in a sea of mud.