Compared to the major studios' big budget medieval period pieces such as "The Lord of the Rings" "King Arthur", or even "Timeline", this is not even in the same league of course. So don't go into it with high expectations. But as a small, independent film done by first time filmmakers on an extremely limited budget, it's not half bad. The score and photography really carry the film. It looks very impressive most of the time. Beautiful locations. And director Brock Morse shows a lot of promise and has obvious talent. I did have some problems with the story/script. It's a bit 'artsy' and strange, with characters coming and going out of nowhere and a lot left unexplained...all of which I'm sure was intentional, so it really depends on your personal taste. My biggest disappointment however was with the DVD. One of the main reasons I would even bother to buy one of these independent cheapo films is because I am interested in the filmmaking process and I love to hear the creators (writer, director) talk about their film. I love to see the behind-the-scenes footage on how their first film came to be, the trials, tribulations, triumphs they had to endure to make the movie.I want to see interviews with the actors, director, writer, cast and crew in general, etc. Well, unfortunately NONE of this is included. There are no commentary tracks whatsoever, which is a shame and somewhat surprising. There are no interviews, no making-of sequences, nothing of note really at all. There is a 3 to 5 minute promo called The Creation of Westender but it is shallow and pretty worthless, essentially a commercial for the film. Where are these filmmakers and why did they not get more involved in this DVD? Most of the time I notice novice filmmakers are eager and delighted to share their movie and are all over the DVD. Not here. It feels somewhat abandoned. And to top it off, the DVD has English sub-titles (which are for the hearing impaired I assume since the movie is in English) that cannot be turned off (!) They are permanently present, which is a bit distracting. So anyway, overall, not a bad first film by director Brock Morse. It's quite impressive considering the low budget. It looks truly beautiful at times ...but it would have been a LOT more enjoyable if the DVD had included more than just the film.