I've never been a Beyonce fan. I hear her music from time to time and bob my head or do a little dance, but I've never been one to purchase her music, let alone go see her perform. I never doubted her ability to entertain---let's face it, she was BORN to do this! But after hearing so many people exclaim how awesome this concert was, I just had to check it out.

I was pleasantly surprised. She keeps it moving throughout. The production is stellar. From her band, to her dancers, to her on stage, she keeps your eyes locked and glued anticipating what will happen next. One thing I loved about this is how she highlighted her musicians, allowing them their moments to display their talents while she dressed or  changed or took a break, whatever. She gave props to the big band behind her. Also, with the backup singers and the dancers, she allowed them their moment to shine---the focus, surprisingly, was taken 'away' from Beyonce for awhile. She incorporated songs from other artists into her works and revamped/remixed her songs.

Overall, it was an absolute solid production, much better I think (at least more energetic and LIVE! than her Dangerously in Love tour).

The only thing I missed from this piece was special features. The DVD offers you the ability to 'remix' the various songs, streaming them through your computer or television for 'listening' sake, but it didn't have any behind-the-scenes footage as did her first tour. I think fans would love more to be able to see Beyonce, not only in her element on stage, but behind the curtain. How does she prepare? What all is involved in this production that wasn't in the first?

She is truly an awesome performer and while I didn't think B'Day was all that great compared to her previous work and works with Destiny's Child, she manages to incorporate the best of her sophomore release intermixed with selections from DIL and Destiny's Child's catalog of work. I can only imagine what theme her next production will take on. Four stars for The Beyonce Experience! Next time, if they include special features, I'll give it five!