You look at the dorky glasses and hair and wonder how that voice ever came from that body.  But it did.  Roy's voice was a miracle.

To me the greatest tributes come from one's peers.  "Black and White Night" is filled with musicians who have heavy duty reputations of their own and basically showed up to be Roy's backing band and vocalists that night.  As they say in "Goodfellas", it's tribute.  k.d. lang, Ronnie Raitt, and Jennifer Warnes sha-la-la-la their hearts out in the back corner.  Jackson Browne, Elvis Costello, and T-Bone Burnett play their parts and keep their heads down, other than a quick bit where Elvis gets a piano solo and bangs his elbow on the keyboard.  James Burton will be a revelation to those who don't know him.  Like Roy, he looks nothing like a rock star, but he sure can play.  The only one who really comes up front, and has the stage presence to pull it off, is Bruce Springsteen.  They are terrific together.  Roy Orbison and Bruce Springsteen singing into the same microphone -- whoa!

An early scene shows the star-studded audience laugh and gasp in delight when Roy hits the first high note.  There is another great moment later on when Tom Waits, who didn't just fall off the turnip truck, reacts the same way to a gargling thing Roy does near the end of "Mean Woman Blues".  ("I got a woman, mean as she can be...." -- if your toes are tapping already, buy this!)

Here is what Bruce said about Roy in his speech at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame induction:  "I carry his records with me when I go on tour today, and I'll always remember what he means to me and what he meant to me when I was young and afraid to love.  In '75, when I went into the studio to make 'Born To Run', I wanted to make a record with words like Bob Dylan that sounded like Phil Spector, but most of all I wanted to sing like Roy Orbison.  Now everybody knows that nobody sings like Roy Orbison."

I have probably watched "A Black and White Night" more often than any DVD I own.  It's almost nothing but highlights.

PS to William Ritter -- "Dream You" was on Roy's last studio album, "Mystery Girl".