I realize that my review will probably be marked unhelpful as mine is not the popular opinion.  I make no apologies, except to say that what I am writing is, in my opinion, fair and not an outright slam of the film.

First, I have to profess my admiration and enormous respect for Zach Braff as an actor. He is talented and charming. I was extremely excited to see his debut as both a writer and producer. I heard Garden State compared to other creative indie productions I enjoyed such as Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind and Lost in Translation. Unfortunately, I am not of the same opinion.

I found the majority of the films quirkiness to be refreshing. Braff's personality and humor really shined through and provided much needed comic relief. It could not carry the film though.

I felt the dialogue and acting was wanting. My main problem with the film was that the quirky and creative moments were peppered with contrived moments. At times, I felt the message of the film was shoved down my throat. There were beautifully shot scenes illustrating Braff's loneliness and struggle that were undone by spelling it out ad nauseam via dialogue. Pivotal moments in the movie were lost on trite rhetoric. Braff was ineffectual in scenes that were meant to be riveting, such as the scene where he confronts his father. I didn't feel the coldness between them. There was little passion and anger. Braff's portrayal of a cold, unfeeling, Prozac-nation bi-product, was wonderful. But when his lust for life was revamped, it didn't come through. It felt like it was missing a piece, ultimately falling flat where it really needed to shine.

Overall, I had a hard time connecting with characters. Braff would grab me, but the interaction with the other cast members was often times forced or uninteresting. I felt Portman's character was overtly eccentric, making her more annoying than endearing in certain scenes.

The premise of the film was certainly interesting, but it was undercooked. Perhaps if Braff let someone else direct it would have melted together more smoothly. It takes a very special talent to both star and direct a film, especially one attempting to challenge human emotion paradigms. I don't think he has it together yet. That said, I look forward to future ventures from Braff. He does have promise. Hopefully he has learned from his rookie mistakes and will turn out a more even and compelling film the next go.