First off, this review, which is only a partial review in some respects, is for THIS November 2008 version of "The General" from Kino.  Several other reviews matched to this item are actually for one of numerous other older versions both from Kino and other companies (some inferior public domain productions), and you should carefully check the dates on each review.  Their descriptions of content for this DVD production are potentially incorrect.  For example, this one does not have any other complete Keaton films on it, although it does have some clips and some other very good extras related to film and RR history.

Second, this is my favorite film of all time, and I cannot help but give it five stars in almost any form - this is for Keaton's original magnificent vision and filmmaking prowess.  Having said that, this version has some specific issues that people should know about when making a choice of what to buy.  If I were grading on DVD production alone, I'd give it 4 stars, and my reasoning is described below.

The basic elements of this DVD production are given in the description, so I will not repeat that information. Instead, my specific thoughts are given below.  I have viewed it only with the Carl Davis orchestral score so far.  I am familar with the included Robert Israel score, which I also like, to a lesser degree than the Davis score, but this is subjective.  I am unfamiliar with the included Lee Erwin organ score.

My own impression from watching several minutes of it last night -

1 - The print is typical of what Kino produces, as good a quality as
one will usually find, and apparently digitally restored.  I say this because the print is quite clean, with few scratches, speckling or dust specks, but with some brightness/contrast variance; and also because there is a note on the Menu Screen and closing credits that strongly indicates that this is a "digital" restoration.  It appears to be an updated video of the standard print used by Kino for its Keaton "General" productions.  The video result is not as good, IMO, as the video result from the print used for the 1987 Thames videotape (that print, despite a few other flaws, had amazing contrast and sparkling clarity), nor is it as good as the highly digitally restored French (Lobster?) Region 2 version of about 3 years ago, with every speck and contrast variance corrected (the French print was, I believe, the same print Kino uses, from film restorer extraordinaire David Shepard).  It is certainly good enough, though, and better than any previous version from Kino or Image of which I am aware.

2 - The Carl Davis score is apparently the very same recording used in
the 1987 Thames video production, with speed *very* slightly altered and
tweaked to fit the current video program.  Mostly, it is slowed down
just fractionally, maybe about 2-3%.  To a person who is used to the
1989 Thames video, it is slightly noticeable at first, but one adjusts pretty quickly; to one who is not familiar with the 1989 video, it should seem perfectly natural.  This score is written to be precisely synchronized to the film, and at some points in the first reel, the synch is off by up to about one to two seconds - perhaps mostly because of a single extra opening credit normally found in Kino's version that was
not present in the Thames restoration - but this is seemingly
corrected by the second reel and apparently presents no further
problems.  During the sequence with the mortar on the RR car, the
orchestral sound effects (base drumbeats for cannon fire, etc) are
timed beautifully.

The score is provided in both 2.0 stereo and 5.1 surround.  On my televison speakers, it sounds a bit bassy and mellow compared to the 1989 videotape; but when piped through my stereo, it sounds crisp and fine.  Most modern equipment can fully adjust for these sound issues.

3 - As a devotee of the score, I was disappointed to hear that the
short harmonica solo prologue and the short orchestral epilogue with
the "big" theme reprise (1987 video closing credits) have been
removed.  The epilogue, in particular, was valuable to bring the
score to an appropriately heroic conclusion, and it is conspicuous by
its absence.  One of my lifelong dreams is to see this film in a
packed vintage restored theatre with the Davis score live, preferably
conducted by Mr. Davis himself.

In summation, while I like this production, I still gotta keep that
old 1987 videotape, which for me (despite inherent flaws of the
medium) is still the gold standard in terms of video presentation.
However, I also wish they'd do a digital update with the Thames 'Our Hospitality' program...my videotape of that one is really showing signs of age, and I really love that Davis score too.

Having said all of this, the match between film and score is just about perfect, and makes a great film-watching experience.  The French Region 2 version, while *looking* sparkling, has the very good Robert Israel score and another new score by composer Joe Hisaishi which is not (in my opinion) a good match for the film (I do like his music otherwise).  All things considered, this is a fine addition to a silents collection, and for North/South American (Region 1) collectors, it is an excellent first choice for those wanting a Keaton "General."  You are not likely to find a better overall DVD production of this film at present.

~ Bruce