Technical rating first; I'd give the DVD quality 4 stars.  The picture is great, the widescreen aspect is wonderful for someone who's been stuck watching the fullscreen VHS for the last couple decades.  The sound is an issue; be ready to pump up the volume to make out some of the quieter dialoge.  For some reason a lot of older animated films converted to DVD seem to have this problem, so it may be something they just can't avoid.  But, it makes it less than perfect so 4 stars is fair.

Now, the film itself.
This is (in my opinion) the best mature animated film ever made.

While little kids may be mildly interested in the rabbits, the majority of the film will bore them to death.  The blood and violence (which is mild compared to most of today's video games) are nothing compared to the social-political message and heavy character development/progression that little kids just won't be able to get.  Don't torture them by telling them to be quiet while watching it because it's a "cartoon".

Teens and up should absolutely see this movie.  And, then see it again two or three times to pick-up on all the different topics covered.  Then, when you have a bad day or week and need a reminder that sometimes the good guys win, pop this in, skip to the end, and cheer on Hazel and BigWig.

I have recommended and promoted this film since my high school days, and I have gotten some interesting feedback.  A fellow Christian once told me they didn't like the idea of rabbits having a sun god.  A fellow conservative once told me they thought it was a pro-hippie movie.  An atheist told me they thought it was a pro-judeism movie.  A liberal told me it was an anti-socialism movie.  And a PETA member friend told me she thought the film was an anti-rabbit movie (and that one totally boggled me).

Any film that produces this many totally contradictary view points has to be worth a watch, right?

Here's my nutshell of ideas I think Watership Down suggests or promotes:
There's a Creator, They've given us some good things, and They are worth acknowledging even if They don't fix things when we ask Them to.
Love your family and never close your mind or heart to them.
Sometimes you have to trust in something that your peers consider crazy to save your own tail.
Comfort and safety are not always the same, and the easier something seems, the more dangerous it might be.
The toughest individual in a group is not always the best leader.
The smartest individual in a group is not always the best leader.
The one who wants to be the leader is often not the best leader.

And one really odd one:
Death (personified) isn't always the bad guy.

If you are an adult and haven't seen this film, I strongly urge you to do so.  If you don't like animals, then you may have difficulty accepting talking rabbits as characters.  Just think of them as people.  But I can't think of anyone who would not benefit from watching this film because it will make you think on many levels.