Geraldine Page is one of the greatest actresses of our time. This movie, paradoxically, perhaps demonstrates this better than her more "serious" work such as "Sweet Bird of Youth," "Summer and Smoke" and "Interiors" because SHE'S THE ONLY PERSON INVOLVED WITH THIS MOVIE WHO HAS A SHRED OF TALENT (besides Mildred Dunnock, whose role is too small to help). In the other movies I mention, Page is in the company of talented actors and directors; in this movie, she's surrounded by a complete lack of talent and/or ability. Page gives a spectacularly wonderful performance and a witty characterization that is altogether astonishing in the midst of so much bad acting and directing. THE ACTING STINKS, STINKS, STINKS EXCEPT FOR PAGE. Ruth Gordon was always a ham, and she is here too. Still, she presents enough of a character for Page to work against. The music score is ridiculously overbearing, inappropriate, hysterical and maudlin, sometimes all at the same time. My copy of the DVD has the worst sound of any DVD in my collection. The voices are tinny, weak and distant, while the scritching violins are in your face, along with every telephone ring and every other unimportant sound effect. Clearly Anchor Bay or whoever is responsible for producing the DVD botched the entire sound process. The best scene in the movie is with Page and the dog. This is because Page is the only one with lines in this scene, and she shows how she can rise above the tawdriness of the production and the (lack of) direction. Still, even her purring-est, steeliest, scorching line readings barely make it past the "music." I've waited for years to own this performance, and I'm grateful that I can see Geraldine Page at the height of her powers (but, then, when wasn't she?), but I'm disgusted by the low production values of the DVD presentation (not to mention of the movie itself). The voices at times literally buzz with distortion. Unless you're an admirer of Geraldine Page, stay away. If you do appreciate her, however, it's definitely worth putting up with all the garbage around her. Fortunately, the DVD has chapter stops, so you can skip a lot of the muck. My recommendation: press the forward-scan button every second Page is not onscreen. But you might be tempted to scan backwards and watch Page again and again as she gets a chance to do her thing, which is great character work and an astonishing variety and depth of emotion. I look forward to quality DVD releases of "Sweet Bird of Youth" and "Summer and Smoke" in particular, but Geraldine Page is virtually flawless in everything she ever did.