I have watched George Steven's film numerous times- and will continue to. Considering the subject matter- that shouldn't come as a surprise.

This film flopped on initial release. Some said it was because of the waning interest in the biblical epics. Some claimed it was because of hollywood's finest stars  in momentary parts- that it became too distracting. I personally think it was because it was a quiet film for its time. Stevens' tried to get inside what Christ must have 'felt'. I don't think anyone at the time could or would grasp or understand that approach.

Max Von Sydow is brilliant as Christ. You cannot come away from his initial meeting with John the Baptist (Heston), his dealing with the demon on the mountain ( Donald Plesance), his saving of Mary Magdelaine or his raising of Lazurus, without sensing how a 'Son of God' must have felt amongst the 'barbarians'. He is magnificant in relaying how lonely Christ ultimately must have felt. It's a credit to Sydow's acting, his delivery of the word- and the atmosphere generated by Stevens.

This is a flawed but still an immensley spiritual film. It touches on the life of Christ (based on the Fulton Oursler book), and it paints a poignant portrait primarily of his adult years and his time with the Apostles.

It personally affected me in that it really spoke of how, no matter what was demonstarated, it was never enough. It painted the ultimate example that if we don't cherish what we see, feel, hear and know rings with a real truth, we're doomed to a life of continual doubt and denial.

There are many familiar faces (even for the young that may only barely know them).Heston, Portier, Ferrer, Winters, Savalas, John Wayne as a Roman Soldier- David McCallum as Judas...

This is a feeler. If you watch, you may learn. If you open your eyes... you may sense and hear.

Most of all, you will come away thinking, wondering and feeling something spiritual. And that's always a good basis for personal growth, regardless of religious leanings.