A lot of people will disagree with me when I say something like that, and they may very well be right, but for my purposes, Amadeus is the greatest movie ever made, if one has the patience to sit through.  Indeed, Amadeus is a movie that likely would not succeed today because it is as methodical as Salieri's mind, and the movie only really begins to pick up pace after the Don Giovanni sequence, after all the plot elements are in place.
There is a new director's cut coming out soon, and there is an added scene in which Constanze takes off her top for a favor for Salieri.  For me, I think the movie was better without this scene because throughout the movie it is clear that Salieri is not interested in romance or Constanze.  Yet, when she comes into Mozart's bedroom at the end of the movie their disgust for each other is more understandable.
Many will say that this is a great movie because it is a wonderful story of jealousy, but to me this seems to be too simple--there is more to it than mere jealousy.  While Salieri is obsessed with Mozart and says that there wasn't a moment in his life he didn't know his name, it is not towards Mozart that he is truly bitter, but towards God, who places within him, so he says, the passion for music but not the talent to create it.
More importantly, God does place the talent of music in a person who is not religious and does not believe.  How can this be, Salieri wonders.  The only logical explanation he comes to realize is that Mozart is truly the voice of God.  It is God who becomes Salieri's immortal enemy, not Mozart, and the only way Salieri knows to get back at him is to have God Himself write the music to a requiem mass, without knowing that is intended to be for His creation's own requiem mass.
Some people have speculated that Salieri intended to steal the ownership rights to the requiem mass after he is through with Mozart, but I don't see this from the movie.  All Salieri cares about is the music itself, and rather than killing Mozart and finally destroying God's creation, he keeps him alive to write the music.  This is the only way he knows to get back at God.
And what does God do?  He kills Mozart; rather than using him for Salieri's purposes, he lets his creation wither and die.  And as further punishment he keeps Salieri alive, to see that his once beloved music slips into mediocrity, while the music of Mozart is resurrected, so the speak.
This kind of story is the mark of a truly great movie, and above the level of a petty movie about jealousy.  For me, it is the best movie ever made, but I'm sure many people will have other things to say about that.