As a big fan of Bartlett Sher's smart, funny, delightful "Barbiere" for the Met -- when will THAT be released on DVD? -- I was looking forward to "Le Comte Ory," hoping that lightning, as they, would strike twice.  Unfortunately, this is an appalling production.  The wrongheaded, timeworn show-within-a-show concept adds nothing to our understanding of how the piece might have been presented in Rossini's time.  This is not some overblown melodrama like "Il Trovatore" or "La Giaconda" that could benefit from being presented in an historical context, one that would allow the audience to understand how styles of performance have changed in the past two centuries.  "Le Comte Ory" is comedy, and comedy done well transcends time and place.  Sher, however, seems not to trust the material or even have the slightest grasp of how it should be played.  He's inexplicably directed his performers to mug within an inch of their lives, with every note and word accompanied by a broad gesture, a facial tic, a wink to the audience that says, "Look, I'm doing something funny, get it?"  Yes, we get it, we have subtitles, we don't need you to hit us over the head with your big Warner Brothers cartoon hammer.  Of course it's opera buffo, it's all in good fun, but even the most absurd of situations can only work if we as an audience believe that the people living through it take it seriously.  Comedy is serious business.  That's why a film like Billy Wilder's "Some Like It Hot" is a work of comic genius and an episode of "Three's Company" is not.  I may be pontificating at this point, but you get my drift.  There's way too much sitcom in this "Comte," which is a crying shame given the degree of talent on stage.  Florez, DiDonato and Damrau are three of the most accomplished, intelligent and intuitive performers working in opera today.  Their voices are practically unmatched among contemporary singers, and they deserve a production that's sparkling champagne and not stale Cold Duck.  So do we, as far as I'm concerned.