I have been watching I Love Lucy since my elementary school years. I grew up watching it, even though I wasn't around when it first came out. Young and old love this show.

It is much cheaper buying the complete series than buying each individual season, which is what I did, until I saw this on Amazon, so I sold my other sets to get this one. Usually Amazon is pretty competitive with their prices, but I got this set for $137.72 at Sams Club. Now I will be waiting for complete series of TV sows to come out, rather than buy each individual season of different TV shows.

This set includes all 180 episodes plus the pilot episode to make it 181 episodes from the show I Love Lucy plus the 13 episodes from The Lucy-Desi Comedy Hour series for seasons 7, 8, and 9, making it a total of 194 episodes. All of the discs are exactly the same as the individual season boxed sets, but there is a bonus DVD included.

This disc includes:
"Lucy Goes to Scotland"-In Color
"I Love Lucy: The Movie"
Lucy and Desi's First Joint TV Appearance
"I Love Lucy" At the Sixth Annual Emmy Awards
On-Set Commercial From the Series Premiere

It was great being able to see one of the episodes in color, to see what the audience saw when they were there watching the actors in person. It was especially nice to see Lucy's red hair, but I do have to admit I much prefer the series in black and white because that's what I'm used to.

Many people in the past reviews have mentioned I Love Lucy: The Movie. Well to be honest it's only three episodes (The Benefit, Breaking the Lease, and the Ballet) all one right after the other with some extra minutes in between each episode to add a story line from one episode to transition to another, so it flows together and makes sense to create a movie length show. It's still great to watch, but it wasn't as big a deal as I thought it was going to be.

And there are many other extra bonus features on each disc, the same bonus features that are on each of the season boxed sets. The discs are also the same in appearance both on the outside just looking at it, and also once put in the DVD player, on the main menu screen. Also what I have noticed on the bonus disc before choosing to play the commercial for Philip Morris, there is a warning label: "This material is shown in its historical context. WE DO NOT RECOMMEND SMOKING, WHICH CAUSES LUNG CANCER, AND OTHER DISEASES."

On all of the discs there are Spanish Subtitles, and on every season disc (not the bonus DVD) you can choose to watch any episode with English or Spanish as the spoken language.

Also on the first season discs in this set, on the main menu screen you can choose to play all episodes on the disc or play them individually. If you choose to play them all by clicking the "play all" button on the screen, the I Love Lucy song plays with Ricky singing the lyrics. Then there is a group of people singing the song right before it ends. There are several different scenes from the show that show on the screen while the song is playing. Lucy, Ricky, Fred and Ethel are in color on the screen during the song, but everything else is in black and white. Before the song plays and right after it, a pink curtain pulls up and down that says "The Collector's Edition." You'll probably recognize the lyrics to the theme song.

These are the words to I Love Lucy:

I LOVE LUCY
AND SHE LOVES ME
WE'RE AS HAPPY AS TWO CAN BE
SOMETIMES WE QUARREL BUT THEN
HOW WE LOVE MAKING UP AGAIN
LUCY KISSES LIKE NO ONE CAN
SHE'S MY MISSUS AND I'M HER MAN
AND LIFE IS HEAVEN YOU SEE
CAUSE I LOVE LUCY
YES I LOVE LUCY
AND LUCY LOVES ME

The pilot episode on the first disc from the first season, I was surprised how clear the screen was. All of the discs have such clear picture quality, much better quality on these discs than on reruns on TV. Of course it may depend on how good a picture your TV gets. If you have a good picture on your TV, then the reruns on TV are usually pretty clear too.

In this complete series, the DVDs are not in cases, like they were for the individual seasons. Instead there are two cardboard book-like CD cases that they are in (accordion shape style). One has seasons 1-3 including the bonus disc and the other for seasons 4-9, so they are split up about equally to be the same size to fit into its case. For each slot in the CD case, it says what season and what disc the slot is. The colors on the slots match the colors on the discs. For example, the first seasons' discs are pink, so the slots for season one are pink. Everything is put in order and easier to locate and find.

There is also a pamphlet or small thin book (whatever you want to call it) that tells you what is on each disc. For each page in it, it lists each episodes' title, the air date and a small summary about the episode. And below the episode lists/guides, there are "Bonus Material Highlights" which mention which episodes from "My Favorite Husband" are on the disc and whatever special features the disc has: "Behind the Scenes" Featurette, "Behind the Scenes" Slide Show, slide shows, Audio Commentary, Meet Special People, Photo Gallery etc. On each page, there are several photos of Lucy and the gang from different episodes as well. Also, just like the DVDs and the book-like accordion CD cases are organized by color, so is the pamphlet/thin book. Season one's DVDs are pink, and so are the pages in the pamphlet/thin book for the pages that season one is on. Season three is colored blue, so the pages with season three are blue, and so are the DVDs and the slots to put them away in.

The pamphlet/thin book fits inside the box with the two CD cases. The cover for the box, with the I Love Lucy logo on it, fits nicely over it. It's a cute way to store the series, but it probably could have been put together better, but it's still great for any Lucy lover, and it's a wonderful collectors item.

It really is a great product, and better, a great show! It's great to watch over and over again.

Once a fan, always a fan!