The movie ARMY OF DARKNESS is great and I recommend it. However, if you have never seen the movie before, just get the regular version- you can get it for 5 dollars. This version I paid $18 for. It claimed that it was,  quote, "The uncut version originally turned in(...) before it was  edited." It also quotes "Now bootleggers can find something else  to sell at conventions." The first statement is a lie and the second  goes along with it. This video is NOT complete. Although it does have a few  scenes, there are scenes that are shown on television that are not on ANY  version of the video! I bought this because I thought they would include  all the missing scenes, including TV scenes. One of the more interesting  scenes was a longer battle scene when Ash is captured, where he actually  threatens Arthur with a sword. This is missing in the so called  "uncut/complete" version! I could have kept my Japanese laserdisc  bootleg and saved my money, but because I thought this would be so much  better, I spent my money on it. As for the "bootleg" comment- I  still have a copy of the version I taped off of television, so no this  doesn't stop bootlegging. And don't pay too much attention to the word  "letterbox"- there are two little tiny lines across the top and  bottom. There is so little trimmed off the sides in the "pan and  scan" version that a letterbox release is unnecessary. All in all, I  feel ripped off. Not only this, but also, there is a Limited Edition(which  I am commenting on) and a "Collector's Edition." The Collector's  Edition has a behind-the-scenes special and the trailer but not all the new  scenes. These are NOT on the Limited Edition, even though it is $5 higher  in price. In other words, Anchor Bay is saying "Ha ha loyal fans of  THE EVIL DEAD. We are releasing several versions of the movie and you must  buy them all just to get the parts you want! Ha ha ha!"
Please,  whoever edits these "uncut" versions: When you claim you have the  undedited version, make sure it is actually unedited. I wish I could return  this rip-off of a video. Take my advice- if you buy this movie, be prepared  to find scenes missing(even though it claims to be undedited). What annoys  me even more is Bruce Campbell is the one who wrote this inside the video  liner notes! Did he just not know better?