This Movie is awesome, but the rating ticks me off. R, please, lord of the rings is rated 14A and 18A, and it's live action, some things i see in this movie that deserve an R rating are seen only once or twice in this movie, yet you see similar things 4 or 5 times in Lord of the rings. anyway back to the movie.  i've read some other reviews, and i have to say i'm not very pleased with them, for instance, somepeolpe say it's terrible for how some of their favourite characters die right in the beginning, others don't really explain the movie, so heres the review that will tell you what its about.
The Movie X {like Escaflowne The movie} is basically a replay of the T.V. Series. It starts off with Kamui seeing his mothers death, which is very tragic, just after she tells him to return to Tokyo city and join the Dragons that will save man kind and he is the Chosen one to fight on Gods behalf. He returns to Tokyo
and meets up with his beloved childhood Friend Kotori{prounounced "coat tory"}  and her older brother {Also considered like an older brother to Kamui,  thow they aren't related} Fuuma {prounounced "Fu ma"}  Monou. all of a sudden two Dragons of Earth {Bad Guys}, Show up and try to get Kamui to go with them, Kamui refuses and the three start to fight, just as things start getting topugh for Kamui, The Dragons of Heaven {Good Guys} shopw up to help, the other two Dragons run away and Fuuma and Kotori are taken Prisoners. the Dragons of heaven Convince Kamui {thats prenounced "Cam Way"} to come with them to meet princess Hinoto {Hin o toe} who Kamui has seen in a dream/vision before. She reveals to him that the one who kidnapped his friends was her sister Kanui {"Can a way"} and that right now she iis convincing Fuuma to become a dragon of the earth. She then show kamui what will happen to hie beloved Kotori if he choses to be a dragon of the earth, she show him killing her. Kamui is furiuous, but because he loves Kotori and his mother who asked him to become a dragon of heaven, he chooses the side of Heaven. One by one the Dragons of the Earth and Heaven Die, soon only Kamui and two other dragons are alive, Kotori runs away from the Dragons of earth when Fuuma tries to take the sword of the Earth form her body, she somehow gets to Kamui's hideout and keeps running, Kamui runs for her but Fuuma catche her and kills her taking the sword that belongs to him, He kills Hinoto's sister and the other tweo Dragons of Heaven. Kamui and Fuuma remeet at Tokyo Tower. There the two Dragons fight, at first Kamui tries to convince Fuuma that he is Fuuma and Not Fuuma, but Fuuma clams his old self to be dead. Kamui has no other choice but to fight, he calls forth the sword of heaven and with one final slash. sorry you'll have to watch the movie to see who wins. hope this wasn't too  much of a good review, and hope this didn't spoil anything, just to let you know a few of the things i said in this review are somewhat false, and i didn't mention a couple of good things. Hope you get this movie, it's really good.