First of all, "The 39 Steps" has nothing to do with stairs!  Alfred Hitchcock wouldn't be so pedestrian to entitle one of his (I'd say, greatest) films thusly.  Our lead herein, Robert Donat (like you, no doubt now) would certainly like to know what they are too, but to tell you would give way the climax.  I will say that, like many Hitchcock films, what is being pursued is less signficant than the quest involved itself. Nevertheless, the ending of this film is great fun; wonderfully choreographed (yes, choreographed:), and as dramatically suspenseful as Hitchcock can get. It's most memorable, to boot.  So, where does that leave us, herein? If you have seen and liked "North by Northwest" you ought to enjoy this film; as it is similar in spirit and very much akin (albeit in black and white) to that rather more popular escapade of Hitchcock's that climaxes on Mount Rushmore.  If you are unfamiliar with this latter film, but have enjoyed "Vertigo", "Shadow of a Doubt", "To Catch a Thief", and/or "Strangers on a Train" then I can also confidently predict you will relish "The 39 Steps" too.  Finally, if you haven't seen any of the above may I ask what your excuse is?  You can't be a celluloid fanatic without being familiar with the likes of Hitchcock (as well as Ford, Wilder, Capra, Kurosawa, et al.).  Granted, you may not be a film fanatic, of course; in which case still have a look at "The 39 Steps" and one other of the above.  Then, on the odd chance, if neither appeals to you at least you can be familiar with this famous director's style and you can chalk it up to a cultural experience having watched them. Aside: I'm of the school that most films are best watched in the dark, especially black and white ones such as this fine film.  P.S. The audio commentary track on this Criterion DVD is rather descriptive to the point of being superficial; BUT, having persevered through it I'm glad that I did.  It did add something to my appreciation to the film, notwithstanding the feeling that I could almost have done a better job myself.  And that's not as contradictory a statement as it may seem. I hope this review has been of some help to you. Cheers!