I watched this, after seeing that it received good reviews, this weekend. I can honestly say that I've never finished a movie and been so thoroughly disgusted with it. I mean that. This was worse than battlefield earth or freedie got fingered (which, in fact, I found funny at times).

*SPOILERS BELOW*

We all know the premise behind this movie. Sounds fun, right? Yes! I have thought of this sort of idea before, and I'm enthralled with it. The problem is that this movie doesn't do it; there is no combat between the US carrier and the Japanesse fleet - save a dogfight between two tomcats and two zeros.

Read that again: There is no showdown between the US carrier and the Japanesse fleet. The movie works up to one, and then just as the US planes are launched from the carrier the "magnetic field" that brought them back in time grabs them all and moves them forward again. _I could hardly believe it._ I'm truly thinking about filing a lawsuit against the maker of this movie to get reimbursed for calories and energy expended watching this.

Do you know why there is no showdown? Budget reasons. That can be the only reason I think of. The ending, as is, is so ridiculous that there is simply no other explanation except that the budget for this movie was used up and they realized that they couldn't pull off a vast scene of jets vs a couple hundred zeros, with missiles vs 1941 Japanesse destroyers.

Stay away from this movie. It is a hideous tragedy of moviemaking.

I have to add that those interested in a theoretical discussion of time travel will not find it here. The most in depth they get is the hypothetical question of "What if I go back in time and kill my grandfather? Then I couldn't have been born, and I couldn't have gone back to kill him." This movie contains neither a "fun" schooling of the Japanesse by a 40 year-newer military, nor an analytic look into the enigma of time travel. Interestingly, this movie was produced (?) by "Blue Underground". Well, "blue" is the right word, but I'd replace underground with a five letter word. This movie is a tease, and a bad one.