I want to start off by saying that if you read the book and didn't like it, then you will not like this movie. They stuck as close as possible to the book, leaving nothing out. The book was a slow and reflective piece, simply chronicling the journey of a father and son in a world that is dying. There was hardly any action, so if you're looking for a violent post apocalyptic movie this is not it. If you do not like slow movies, do not watch it.

That being said, I loved this movie. I read the book, which I enjoyed thoroughly, and loved the movie for all the same reasons. The cinematography that accurately shows the dying trees, burning fields, and overall grayness of a dying Earth is perfect. Viggo Mortenson plays The Man with the effort he puts into all his movies and conveys the pain and conflict of a depressed and dying man who is only living so that his son can have a chance. And while the Boy is slightly annoying, it's understandable because he's a frightened ten year old in world of rapist cannibals. Viggo is constantly in fear of doing the most terrible thing that a father could do; killing his son to spare him the horrors of capture.

I was worried they would interject over the top action scenes or change the plot to beef it up into a real Hollywood movie, but they didn't and stuck to the story. This story is about morality and integrity. How do you keep your morals when the whole world around you has gone insane? The Man teaches the Boy about carrying the fire; the morality and warmth of the old world, and in turn, towards the end, the Boy also shows him what it truly means to be one of the 'good guys'. Even when everyone else around you has turned towards the darker side of humanity, you can still choose to be your own person and stay true to your morals.

If you like the book you will love this movie as it is as close to a recreation of McCarthy's story as possible. If you like slow depressing movies you will like this movie. As a lover of the book, I really do not have any criticisms. It is well made, has good acting, has a good message, and is a faithful depiction of the book.