To start, I never read reviews before I see a film because I want to approach it with unbiased eyes the first time I see it. I never got a chance to see this one last year and when I caught a clip of Wickus throwing the cat food as a "distraction" well, I just had to see this movie.

I was pleasantly surprised at how awesome this movie was. I didn't really have high hopes for it going in, because from what I had seen it looked low budg and silly, but boy was I wrong! I enjoyed this much more than AVATARD (which I found myself constantly rolling my eyes at the cheesy dialogue and cliche storyline). This is much more entertaining the TURD LOCKER which was about as exciting as watching cheese grow mold.

Why did I like this movie? Here are a few reasons:

1) Amazing special effects. Very believable CGI with few hiccups.
2) It was funny (at least in the beginning. Then it gets serious later. I think the tongue-in cheek aspect works very well for introducing you into this film, though it is hard to sustain an entire story that way. That is why I think they changed to a more serious tone later.)
3) Cool alien guns. Ok, it's pretty primal but, WOW, their were some awesome guns!
4) The most amazing mech ever seen in film. I really was so enthralled with it, and they better bring back more in the sequel.
5) Entertaining from start to finish. I literally could not take my eyes off the screen. I found myself missing things if I did. Something interesting is always going on, not to mention the story pulls you the whole way through.
6) Original. Okay, how many alien invasion/ visitor or variants there of have there been? It's a sci-fi staple. To come to the table with something fresh and watchable in this arena is commendable indeed.
7) I actually cared about the outcome. I found myself rooting for the aliens at the end. Compare this to AVATARD where I didn't give one billy-goats fart how things ended because I already knew what was going to happen. And the Na'vi were lame anyway. Some people say that AVATARD is just ripping off Dances with Wolves. That's not the problem. The problem is it doesn't do it well. District nine 1takes basically the same idea but succeeds. Why? Because the guy is being inducted into the alien culture against his will! A great take on the premise that works for me.

The only real thing wrong with the movie, IMO, is the change from goofy, tongue-in-cheek sci-fi flick to over-serious action-drama. I can understand why they did it, and for the most part it works, but it was a little confusing as to whether they were being serious or not. I think the movie started to take it self too seriously and should have stuck more with the tone in the beginning. Still an awesome movie though.