let me start out by saying if you are a boy who is 18 or under, this series is for you. its got well animated action sequences, blood all over the place, and giant bouncy boobs plus panty shots every 5 seconds. i gave this 3 stars, but you would give it 5. you guys are young, you dont want to think to hard when you watch something. so watch this, i know you will love it. also, if you wait after the credits of the last episode, they even hint at a second season...zomb-gasm!!!

for all you guys who are in your early 20's or older and are not young at heart, then this will probably just be an average piece of media to you. you've all seen hundreds of action movies in your youth and action doesnt get you pumped like it used to and blood isnt shocking anymore. since your hormones arent out of control anymore, sexual content every 5 seconds is just annoying. the story has its unique parts, but mostly you know whats going to happen. that guys going to die, this guys going to live, the groups current headquarters are going to be invaded by zombies. as adults, we just know whats going to happen.

as a man in my early 20's who doesnt even watch super hero movies anymore, i have rated this 3 stars. like i said, its not completly unoriginal. i wanted to finish this series just to figure out the small things i couldnt guess. some people i obviously knew were going to die, but some i didnt. even if i watch a movie and can guess 99% of the outcome, i still finish it to figure out that 1%. its how i work. but if your not like me, and your looking for a story filled adventure where you have no idea whats going to happen next, this isnt for you.

now listen carefully, all you who are not of man flesh, for this series is NOT for you. maybe, if your a female 18 or younger who enjoys action like the boys of your same age do, you might give this 2 stars. simply because you enjoy the action, but if you watch this, you will be HORRIFIED by how much they toy with women in this series, unless your a lesbian. they make it look like the word girls is just japanese for sex, and ive seen anime do it before, BUT NOT LIKE THIS!!! to you, the sexual content just might be more scary then the zombies.

if your a mature, pure girl who is in her early 20's or older, DONT WATCH THIS SHOW. just give it 1 slut of a star and never watch it.

p.s. this is my first review ive ever made for anything on amazon. i hope it was helpful, and i hope that no one was offended by my silly, crude, jokes. for all i know, amazon could delete this review by tommorow morning=)