Elmore Leonard's novel Get Shorty was a hit, as was its movie adaptation. I say this as an Italian-American from New York who's lived in Miami - aka Brooklyn with palm trees -- so I get where it comes from. I'm just glad that this small gem finally got the two-disc treatment. It gets better with each viewing. The extras are fun and interesting, if a bit lightweight.

It's enough to say that the intricate plot is classic Elmore Leonard, and that the script has retained much of  his pithy dialogue. I'd rather focus on the quirky characters and their players because it is they who make this film snap, crackle and pop.

IMO Get Shorty would have gotten little attention without John Travolta's stellar performance. From his razor-cut helmet hair to his expertly wielded cigarette to his swaggering walk, Travolta IS Chili Palmer: a Miami-based loan shark with orca-like charm who thinks quickly, speaks directly and acts decisively. He's also a film buff who decides to get into the movie business because it's a lot like organized crime, but with more legit money. Travolta doesn't play Chili; he inhabits him, which is high praise.

The same is true of Travolta's co-stars. The excellent Gene Hackman is perfect as dim-witted Harry Zimm, a horror film producer whose gambling habit and big mouth land him in serious doodoo. Danny DeVito captures the egocentricity of "shorty" Norman Weir, the talented actor turned Movie Star that Harry wants for his prestige film. Rene Russo competes with these big-name actors for our attention and wins. Her MILF looks and sardonically rendered lines turn jaded actress Linda Flores into a luscious prize. No wonder all these guys want her.

Every part is well cast. Dennis Farina never misses; here he plays beat-up Miami mob boss Ray "Bones" Barboni with comic malevolence. He's after dry-cleaner Leo Devoe (milquetoast-y David Paymer), a "dead" airline crash victim that Chili finds is living large on the insurance money that he owes to Bones. Delroy Lindo has a pivotal role as LA limo king and coke dealer Bo Catlett, one of Harry's investors and a deadly dude if he or his carpeting get messed with. James Gandolfini hints at his future Sopranos success as Bear, the pony-tailed movie stunt man who moonlights as Bo's bodyguard. Miguel Sandoval is Mr. Escobar, a Colombian drug lord who arrives in L.A. to lean on Bo about his overdue coke money and nephew.

The many uncredited cameos sprinkled throughout Get Shorty give it added insider hipness. Bette Midler appears more than once as Doris Saphron, the zaftig widow of Zimm's deceased script writer who sees the producer as her next meal ticket. I'm surprised that no one has mentioned spotting Alex Rocco reprising his mobster-on-the-massage-table scene from GF1, or Barry Sonnenfeld, the film's director, playing a hotel doorman getting a big tip. There are other recognizable Hollywood veterans in bit parts. to look for.

A last thought: I'm puzzled as to why no one has commented on Get Shorty's great soundtrack. It's a sassy mix of original music by John Lurie (and played by Booker T and the MGs), jazz standards and R&B classics. It's cool enough to air condition your house in August.

So look at me, Harry. Look at me. Just watch, listen and be cool. You got that?