I think video reviews are purely subjective to the viewers (this one in particular applies to my 2-year-old son and myself) so everyone will have their own opinions whether or not the movie delivers proper messaging or morale or deemed educational. In my opinion movies are made purely for entertainment purposes, and I think that's what this Thomas movie accomplished. I don't expect a movie to necessarily teach my son anything, because that is my job as the parent! But it did what I expected it to do - entertain my 2-year-old for 50 straight minutes without a bother while mom gets her work done around the house! Interestingly enough, the TV series episodes can never keep my son grounded, he was always more interested in just the music videos and the theme song. But this movie kept his attention from even the previews (which I will admit, it is a bit annoying to have to skip through manually without the option to jump right to the main menu) all the way until about the last 15 minutes of the movie. I can replay this movie over and over throughout the day and the next day and he will literally sit there quietly on the couch and watch the thing! That's pretty impressive for my rambunctious toddler at this age!!

The CG animation is beautifully done with lots of bright colors (which I think is part of the reason why it catches my son's attention), and the the main theme song is very catchy. The story line itself is pretty good even I find it entertaining. The movie does portray Bash, Dash and Ferdinand as annoying and seemingly unfriendly characters (at first) which isn't necessarily discouraging, because we all know there are tons of annoying little kids on the playground in real life. But those are simply personalities, and Thomas found a way to befriend them and visa versa especially when faced with a challenge that requires them to work together. I think the story does do a great job demonstrating teamwork and problem-solving - two critical real-life skill sets for kids to learn. I personally really didn't find anything that was offensive or any negative messaging as some other reviewers have said...but again that's just my own personal opinion.

Bottom line is this was by far the best investment I ever made on entertainment for my son, and I just purchased "Hero of the Rails" and "Day of the Diesels" on Amazon. I'm hoping those 2 other movies will perform miracles like this one...I would be in heaven if he can sit still for 3 whole hours, it's every work-at-home mother's dream come true!