This is a great film and an extremely important one as well.  Amazingly, it is brought to life through a screenplay acted out primarily by children, with relatively little dialogue.  After about the first quarter of the film, the absence of the mother brings the dialogue to a near halt.  Occasionally it is punctuated by the babblings of the smaller children however Akira and Kyoko, the two older children, exist in relative silence.  Interactions amongst store clerks and others are limited to mechanical discourse of mere formality.  Never do we hear what Akira is feeling.  Hence, the viewer is forced to watch and attempt to understand what is going on in each child's mind.  In a sense, viewing this movie is an exercise in child psychology.

With their mother absent, their living conditions degenerate.  Although the younger children seem oblivious to their squalid living conditions, the senses of Akira and his sister Kyoko seem to further dull with each passing day.  They show relatively no emotion.  At one point Akira seeks to obtain some money from his younger sister's father.  They meet behind a pachinko hall where he works.  He gives him 5000 yen and then tells young Akira that even though he is giving him money, Yuki (Akira's sister) couldn't possibly be his daughter because he never had unprotected sex with his mother.  The discussion of one's mother's sexual promiscuity would seemingly be traumatic to a young child, but the fact that this statement doesn't seem to faze him, reveals how deep his emotions are set inside.

During the whole movie there are numerous signals that one would think neighbors would see.  The landlord's wife seems to be somewhat aware of their situation but does not investigate.  Even a convenience store clerk, who is fully abreast of their dire condition, does nothing.  The fact that in a developed nation and in an urban environment, this story could be played out leads one to question the safeguards established within our own communities and cities.

Although watching Nobody Knows is painful, a careful viewing will allow you take in all that it has to offer.  Along with its excellent visual presentation, its simple music complements the acting.  Some might feel that the movie is a little on the long side, to which I would agree.  Some scenes seemed a little tangential and non-critical to an understanding of the children, but I would not categorize them as completely superfluous.  It is definitely a film worth your time, but perhaps not the $20 for the DVD if you get easily bored.  If nothing else, watch it to find out the meaning of my review title.