First, an apologies.  I don't own the DVD.  I just saw this with a friend, so I have nothing to say about it technically, special features wise, etc...  Second, my rating would be 2.5 stars, it just wasn't a selectable option.  Ok, here goes:
Ichi the Killer essentially follows two opposing, incredibly violent characters.  Jiji is pulling the puppet strings of one, but he's not nearly so important a character thematically.
The title character, Ichi, is tightly wound up in hazy memories of being bullied and likely feelings of sexual inadequacy, and can't cut through the fog.  Unable to control emotions himself, he is manipulated by Jiji to act as a (highly effective) slice'em dice'em style murderer.  The opposing character, Kakihara is overly cool, full of cynicism and torture of others and masochism are all that gets him engaged.  You get the feeling he's unsatisfied, though, and these just break the boredom.  He's looking for the next thrill... Ichi.
This could be a setup to a masterpiece, perhaps something on violence's emptiness and consuming power?  Well, it isn't anything like that, folks.  What's missing of course, is a character we can take a personal interest in.  I wrote the next two paragraphs a mental accounting of the way to change the characters to fit my "allegory on violence", but really any of the changes would have helped the movie, even if they did not go remotely so far as making this my movie.
Ichi is made too nice, and far too pathetic... the transformation into crazed killer doesn't work, it's too cartoonish.  He and the movie would be more interesting and disturbing if undercurrents of the violent temper came out at times other than when he starting killing, if at some level or some of the time, he wasn't really fooled, and you could watch him killing without laughing because of how fake and stupid it all looked.  If this movie took you from a plausible, somewhat sympathetic character to a bloody killer, it would be truly great.  Instead, it takes you from an implausibly pathetic character to a demented superhero.  At the very least, please loose the costume!
They give Kakihara more viscerally intense stuff, (a particular torture scene certainly comes to mind) but don't do enough with his character either, preferring to concentrate on how cool he is with his slit cheeks and killer wardrobe.  Exactly how and when did he get to be so messed up?  If asked, it might have given the film some depth.  It wasn't, at all.  That's a terrible shame.
Stripped of interesting, developed characters, the movie becomes largely a comedic splatter film with a few sideshows.  It's watchable with that as the expectectation, but then the genuinely disturbing violence (which IMHO isn't the slice-dice, but the torture, and beatings/rape) is out of place to me.  
They had a great chance here to make the movie I was thinking of and they didn't even come close... argh!