My apologies to Veda Kablinsky and Joyce Yang.  In a previous review, I tried to make the point that although I really loved Joyce Yang's playing (the little I saw) and respect Veda Kablinsky and Menahem Pressler immensely as jurors and teachers, I wished the DVD had focused less on the aforementioned individuals (however wonderful they were/are) and instead presented a genuine coverage of the Van Cliburn competition.  I did not wish to imply that I think the competition was fixed towards anyone by anyone. I simply wished to argue that someone might think the competition is suspect, because there's unequal coverage of all the semifinalists and finalists, and there's not enough piano playing provided to allow viewers to judge for ourselves who "we think" really deserved the prizes.  Two Chinese finalists were scarcely covered, as was one of the Italian finalists.  To make room for more piano playing, minimize greatly the coverage of host families' kitchens, shopping and swimming pool scenes, scenes of other pianists from the eyes of a fellow contestant, etc.  Instead of trying to make the coverage "artsy" make the DVD a fairer sampling of the competition itself, so there's enough piano playing going on that viewers can say, "Yes, Cobrin defintely deserved the gold...OR "Wow, I really loved Joyce Yang and thought she should have won...." or "God, that Chinese pianist from Curtis (the one we never got to hear enough of but won the third prize) really was the best...."  Sadly, viewers will never really know who should have won at the Van Cliburn, and I would expect any competent DVD to do Van Cliburn's competition justice.  Van Cliburn is truly a wonderful ambassador of piano music, as are Veda Kablinsky, Menahem Pressler, and the other jurors.  So please don't misinterpret my advice.  It's meant to be a respectful and constructive critic of the DVD -- not the competition.  I actually don't know what went on in the competition itself, because I didn't see enough of it on the DVD. That's basically my point.  Please don't shoot the messenger of bad news.  I still enjoyed the DVD and still gave it a "5" rating because I know making DVDs about such a large competition must be a hard job.  Mr. Sommer must be commended for his hard work, and much of the coverage was beautiful.  Perhaps now that he has feedback from customers about our need for more piano playing coverage, he can storm back and create the most wonderful piano DVD of the next Van Cliburn. That is an opportunity for a director who is obviously tremendously gifted.  My apologies to Mr. Sommer.  Again, I offer my criticisms with the best possible intentions, and then, it is only my opinion.  Perhaps you feel I'm wrong, and perhaps you may be right.  I hope my comments help the Van Cliburn DVDs reflect the competition in a better way.  (By the way, I will buy tickets to see Joyce Yang play in Chicago next February.  I'm sure I will be treated to wonderful playing.  At 21, she's a remarkable young pianist.  Kudos to her for her vivacious personality and wonderful silver prize.)