For those who are fans of the FARSCAPE series, the release of the DVDs is a blessing of its own, even if my one complaint about them is that their release is very, very slow.  However, the quality of the DVDs continues to be very high, and this more than makes up for the slowness of the release schedule.
"Back and Back and Back to the Future" offers an episode in which the arrival of scientist Verell and his assistant, Matala, on Moya brings with it an intriguing mystery as Crichton suffers from 'time flashes' that lead to worse and worse results every time he changes the future.  The story has an unusual, FARSCAPE twist to time travel, and the strength of the episode lies in the developing relationships between the various characters.  The extra footage found in this episode sheds some light on a few things, and goes to show what North American television commercials deem as footage not worthy of airing, yet it has some importance to the episode.  A commentary version of the episode by Ben Browder and director Rowan Woods makes for intereresting viewing, and sheds a lot of light on how episodic television is made.  
  The second episode, "Thank God It's Friday, Again", is one in which our heroes travel down to the planet Sykar to find D'Argo, who left the ship in a Luxan hyper rage some three days prior.  What they find is a planet strangely at peace, D'Argo not wanting to return to Moya but happy to be harvesting tannot root from the ground, and a culture that seems to be living in a drug-induced blissfulness.  Add to that Rygel's body fluids becoming explosive, and the story takes some interesting twists, with the neat revelation towards the end.  This is a fine episode, that shows a softer side to at least three of the characters (D'Argo, Zhaan, and Aeryn), and has some interesting aspects of morality to it.  The extra footage in this one has some good scenes but there's nothing here that makes this episode worth the wait for the DVD.  On the other hand, the commentary version with Rockne S. O'Bannon and Anthony Simcoe is a delight to watch, and sheds a good deal of light into the thinking that went into the story and into some of the aspects of how Anth chose to play D'Argo in this episode and some of the other acting aspects of the story.  Well worth the price of the DVD.
This DVD is a bit more of a mixed bag, but when one adds the profile on Zhaan and Virginia Hey (who is never seen out of makeup in the Profile section), it's a worthwhile addition to the collection of FARSCAPE DVDs to this point.