Once upon a time there was a rebellious, bright, funny, teenager named Beverly Donofrio.  She was trapped in a working class Catholic family in a suburban neighborhood in the 1960s, and the only way she could - in her befuddled and wrong-headed teenage way - figure out how to escape was to do what many other teens with underdeveloped judgment have done and will continue to do to get out - she got pregnant at 17, got married to a loser, and was divorced by 19.  She spent eight years on welfare, yet managed to raise her son, go to an elite eastern college, get a masters degree from Columbia, and become a successful writer.  She wrote a memoir that I consider a minor classic called "Riding in Cars with Boys" which signaled an important cultural shift in attitudes toward women, because it was the story of a "bad" girl who wasn't ashamed of it.  If this movie, which bears the title of that memoir, had retold the story told in that book, it could have been a great movie.  
Instead, what we get is a high concept TV movie of the week type story about "babies having babies" in which a 15 year old girl gets pregnant, marries the father who she's too dumb even to realize is a drug addict, stays married to him a number of years, develops a dysfunctional relationship with her son whom she is barely able to love, and ends up up being taken care of emotionally by her preppy, shallow ultimately emotionally confused son.  From everything I've seen in video interviews with Beverly Donofrio and her son, and from the book, and other articles I've read, this just isn't remotely her story or her character.  
I've read a lot of reviews that focus on how great Drew Barrymore was aging from15 to 35, and what a challenging role this was.  Well, I thought she did OK with the mess of a script and the character, but the script and character make no sense.  Why did she have to be 15?  In real life Beverly was pregnant at 17.  The real story is that Beverly  (who by all acccounts from life was  a loving if unconventional mother) managed, son in tow, to go to college and graduate school (not study for her GED - Beverly finished high school with her class) all the while on welfare (not working double shifts at the diner).  Why not tell that story - which is far more interesting than this silly moralistic tale - of the trials and failures of a teenage mother?  And if you remove the distracting framing device of having her confront her husband at 35, then you could have a role where the actress ages from 17 to 27, a lot less difficult to do.
There is one superb performance in this movie, and that is Steve Zahn as the junkie husband and father.  But Drew Barrymore as Beverly Donofrio just seems to lack the edge, the funny, rebellious, in your face presence that Beverly Donofrio has.  I grew up with lots of bad girls just like her in an Italian neighborhood in the suburbs of a big city in the fifties and sixties.  Those girls had some real sass.  This girl portayed by Drew Barrymore just doesn't have that.  In fact, she seems too much like a "nice" girl and doesn't fit the situation.  
If you can set aside what this movie should have been and could have been and take it on its own terms, it is well made - the production values are good, the period evocations are effective, the settings are interesting, the use of cars as a character is well-done.  It's at least watchable on that level, and I also enjoyed the contribution by Lorraine Bracco as well as that of Steve Zahn (James Woods just gives me the creeps and I can't forget it in whatever role he's in).  I'm disappointed though that it's not a movie telling the story in the book.