Any way you look at it, this DVD package is a great value for the money - the sticker on the outside says it all - "Over 5 hours of footage plus bonus content, including additional tracks, music videos, documentaries and photo gallery."  Given the wide variety of songs,  it's difficult to characterize this DVD.  I guess you could say this is a combination of the heartfelt On An Island songs, with Pink Floyd classics.  A considerable amount of work went into it - there is something here for everybody.

Director David Mallet (who also did the highly acclaimed Pink Floyd Pulse DVD) has put together a great mix of shots from the many cameras in the Royal Albert Hall, and which combines a selection of clear shots of the band with the artsy/abstract ones (I especially liked the closeups of Gilmour's fingers working the guitar).  This is not Pulse (an arena extravaganza show), but rather a rendering of the On An Island tour show which was geared for theaters (many lights all around the stage, lots of smoke, and some lasers during the later Floyd songs).  This show is more moody and personal, with more feeling, than an in-your-face arena show.  More about the people and the music - more genuine or intimate in a way (I do love arena shows too).  It was filmed at the end of the tour, so the band had the songs down to perfection (and this is the best from the 3 nights of Albert Hall shows).  They obviously enjoyed doing it.  Amazon provides a good example of the video with their excerpt from Breathe.

David's band includes Richard Wright from Pink Floyd, Phil Manzanera from Roxy Music (an excellent addition, who also co-produced and played in the OAI CD), Jon Carin, Guy Pratt, and Steve DiStanislao.  Guests include David Crosby and Graham Nash, David Bowie, and Robert Wyatt.

Disk One is all concert, and is a full 2 ½ hours long (no filler breaks between songs, like on some DVDs - Sir Paul are you listening?!).  Songs are:  Speak To Me, Breathe, Time, Breathe, Castellorizon, On An Island, The Blue, Red Sky at Night, This Heaven, Then I Close My Eyes, Smile, Take A Breath, A Pocketful of Stones, Where We Start, Shine On You Crazy Diamond, Fat Old Sun, Coming Back To Life, High Hopes, Echoes, Wish You Were Here, Find The Cost Of Freedom, Arnold Layne (w/Bowie) and Comfortably Numb (w/Bowie).  The performance of Echoes (23 minutes) is worth getting the DVD alone.  The fast moving band silhouettes during the strobe sequence of Take A Breath are brilliant.  Bowie makes Comfortably Numb his own.

Disk Two has lots of extras:  30 minutes of Albert Hall extras (Wot's Uh The Deal, Dominoes, Wearing The Inside out, Arnold Layne (w/Richard Wright) and Comfortably Numb (w/Richard Wright)); Europe tour documentary; Dark Globe performance from the tour; acoustic studio Echoes (not listed); Astronomy Domine (Abbey Road); This Heaven (AOL sessions); BBC Mermaid Theatre concert (Castellorizon, On An Island, The Blue, Take A Breath, High Hopes); Making of OAI documentary; West Coast tour documentary; music videos (On An Island & Smile), Island Jam 2007; a photo gallery.

There has been talk of Easter Eggs.  The "hidden" material I'm aware of are a 7-minute fun acoustical studio version of Echoes that runs right after Dark Globe on Disk Two, and that you can click Enter when the wire-man appears during the documentary for extra material (love to know if there's anything else - comments?).

The package is a tri-fold digipak, containing two DVDs and a 20-page booklet.  The booklet is a cool collection of photo collages, including lots of band pics, news clippings, and tour paraphernalia.  Audio options are Dolby Digital 5.1 and Dolby Digital Stereo.  Amazon also shows a Blu-ray version of the DVD coming out later this year (the concert was filmed in high definition).

Overall, this is a generous package by one of rock's greatest guitar masters - excellent music, audio and video - highly recommended!