In summation, the movie is a 90-minute long in-joke, being that if you haven't seen Smith's four previous movies, this one might not make a whole lot of sense.  Jay and Bob get booted away from their stomping grounds at the quickstop, Clerks, and are informed by their old pal Brody, Mallrats, that the rights to the comic book based on them written by Banky Edwards and Holden McNeil, Chasing Amy, has been sold and is being made into a big hollywood movie starring those miramax lynchpins Ben Affleck and Matt Damon, Dogma.  Our heroes decide that to set things right, they must travel out to L.A. and stop the movie from getting made.  How's that for a plot! 
Once again, Kevin Smith has crafted a hilarious, well written fun film.  And once again, it seems that he has caught a large amount of flack for doing so.  Critics dismissed it.  Mainstream viewers largely ignored it.  Gay and lesbian groups protested it.  Granted, the characters curse way too much, but is it too much to ask for people to sit back and just laugh and have a good time anymore?
Smith, of course is no stranger to problems of this sort.  All of his films so far have ticked off one group or another, talons bared, if for no good reason than to pick on the odd man out, a filmmaker whos virtues lie outside the " must see t.v. " crowd.
I don't think that Michael Bay has this problem.
Jay and Job is no Pearl Harbor, thank goodness, but visualy speaking, Smith has grown in spades, although I never had a problem with his visual style in the first place.  The 2:35:1 aspect ratio , other rwise known as "scope" , is used here as it was in Dogma is used to perfect effect, with the frame being filled to the full extent of what is required for any given scene.  
This movie is just a big carton.  Ever seen one of those?  After the problems with his last movie, I think Smith need to take a break in a lighter direction for this one.  If you know Smith's love of dvd, you know what to expect in terms of extras.  The commentay's not as good this time around, but there's plenty else to find..., music videos, trailers and internet spots and of course deleted scenes, two of which are worth the price of the disc alone.  If you don't like Smith and his slackers, go buy something that won an oscar.  If, however, you do like him, do yourself a favor and buy this movie.  You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll spill juice on your good pants!