Well, for once I will not cut corners around this review, this film must be watched by everyone.  It could quite possibly be the most well-done anime of all time.
Now, to start off with the basics, "Metropolis" is a state-of-the-art anime that was based off of the old Osamu Tezuka ("The God of Manga", creator of "Astro Boy," "Kimba," and "Adolf" to name a few) comic from 1949.  It's modern update was written by Katsuhiro Otomo ("Robot Carnival," and "Akira") and directed by Rintaro ("X:The Movie," and "Galaxy Express 999").  But you all know that after reading the shallow Amazon review from above.
The film's story has been brought up again and again, so I won't go into it that much.  However, I will say this, the story is executed in a form in which I would call "Noir Disney."  Don't worry, it's nothing bad, it's just saying that although the film looks like it takes a childish approach to things, it tends to be a bit more on the dark side.  Thus, the film seems like a very interesting blend of two different genres.  Besides, Otomo takes extreme cautions with the script, knowing that the material it's based on is nearly half a century old.
Characters are something to gleam over as well.  Unlike "Akira," "Ghost in the Shell," or "Arcadia of my Youth" the characters have a full understanding of their emoitions.  This can be credited not only to the superb animation, but also to the very talented JAPANESE (not English) voice cast.  It is very easy to fall in love with all of these characters.  From the robot, Pero, to the detective Shunsaku Ban, even to the enigmatic Rock of the Marduk.  A rarity even in Disney movies.
The animation is the real star of the show.  Blanding extraordinary CGI and traditional Tezuka-style characters, the artwork teems with both powerful and simple energy that radiates from ever cell of animation.  Madhouse Studios ("Ninja Scroll," "Trigun," "Cardcaptor Sakura," and several others) spent a LOT of time and effort on these breath-taking visuals.  Whats more, they even put in enough effort to make the film seem as if it were alive.  For example, in one scene, Shunsaku Ban is reading a book, he flips the page, but the page flips back (as it would in real life) and he turns the page back to where it was.  Don't see my point?  Well, considering that animation is a technique that requires A LOT OF TIME AND EFFORT, the fact that they would put something as small as that gives the film a certain clarity not seen today.
Last note, the soundtrack....wow.  Everything about the music is so...so...I don't know, vivid, alive, real...I could throw out a lot of adjectives here.  Its basically Dixie-Land Jazz played in the background and foreground throughout the entire film.  It captures just about everything in the movie.  From the city scapes, to the chase scenes, even to the little scenes like people in a bar.  What's the shining note is the climax song, Ray Charles' "I Can't Stop Loving You," I won't spoil the ending but I will just say this, "Dr. Strangelove" anyone?
In the end, "Metroplis" is a landmark in anime.  EVERYONE should  buy the DVD when it comes out, or just go to the theaters.  Believe me, it is time worth spent.  And if your an anime fan, you have more of a reason to go.  You can't be a true otaku simply by watching "Fushigi Yugi" and "Utena" all day long.  Do yourself a favor and watch this.  There, I said my piece.
-RW