If you read all the reviews here you might be wondering about purchasing!

1.  The complaints about subtitles:
These are the ORIGINAL widescreen subtitles restored!  In the past you saw the edited ones for the TV format VHS

2.  The lack of location titles:
Shot of Swiss Embassy - cut to "Welcome to Switzerland Max".....
Phlueeze!  All shots are like this - you should be able to figure out where you are!

3.  Translations:
They are not perfect - in fact if you speak German - you will hear the German part in a whole new light and the characterization rises above the "wooden" subtitles.

BUT HERE IS WHAT I HAVEN'T SEEN anybody write about the DVD:

- Crisp colour
- The widescreen lets you see the shots as intended and gives even more sweep and scale to the flying shots
- the detail is good enough to see the 1969 film grain - in otherwords it is as good as you are going to get.

This DVD is a TERRIFIC improvement over the VHS tape.  MUST HAVE.

There IS a 5:1 sound release, AND you can opt to hear the film with the abandoned Walton Sound Track and there are REAL extras available - including a 50 minute made for TV documentary about the making of the movie that was made in 1968 with Michael Caine commentating. How do you get it? Is there a catch?

- Well the catch is that it is a region 2 disk - so you need either an "all region" DVD player or a modified drive in your computer.

- The other catch is that it is not available in the US market directly. You need to order it from amazon.co.uk and provide a UK shipping address of someone who will send it on to you.

But - IT IS WORTH IT!  Want to see what real 1940's dogfighting was about - this is it. Read the history to understand the key tactical moments. The apparently disjointed plot and timeline become clearer if you understand the battle really was the messy and drawn out affair portrayed here. Big name stars portray key characters or composites of real fighter leaders - battling with their problems of leadership, aircraft maintenance and the real shortage - "the few" - the polyglot multinational pilots on the British side - experience getting eroded by constant dog-fights and the inexperienced replacements dying while trying to survive. With no digital effects - real pilots "went up" day after day through the summer of 1968 flying the real stars - the aircraft. Begged borrowed or re-built for the movie - suspend your beliefs regarding certain marks or engine variants - these are real planes recreating real dogfights behind a camera plane. Freeze frame the climactic "Battle in the Air" sequence - count them - I made it over 27 on screen at once - with the others that had just flown off and others that flew in moments later - in 1968 the film makers had the 11th largest airforce in the world! This movie was the genesis of the modern "Warbird" movement. This pixel sharp widescreen DVD release shows the film as really intended and is infinitely superior to an earlier VHS tape release.  You think Private Ryan and Band of Brothers are good? Sure they are - but after you have suspended special effects belief Battle of Britain does a great job of showing what it was like to fight with your backs to the wall - not "surprised" by what was coming next thanks to radar, but fearing your dwindling pilot resources would leave you "outgunned". A real tribute to the few, orchestrated by those who were really there and survived. Watch it for them and, more importantly, for those who fell.