This film is a lovely piece of work, made for a time before our generation thought we were so cool and above making any real effort in life--it was made before the whole "me" generation, and thank God for that--what a relief! While most viewers are rightly intrigued by the lush Max Steiner score, the shimmer and youth of Sandra Dee and Troy Donohue and the beautiful, rocky scenery of Maine coast line, the real treasure hidden in this film are the dialogue and breathtaking performances of Richard Egan and Dorothy McGuire.

Only to disquietingly narrow minds might the dialogue and issues seem dated, namely those who lean to imagining themselves to be holders of liberal views but who are, in practice, rather inept when it comes to understanding or appreciating the experience of other generations and other cultures. Such a view, however, couldn't miss the point more. "We have to make choices," says Egan. For a generation of westerners that have "everything"--no war on the homefront, good health, internet, democracy--perhaps Egan's statement is hard to appreciate. Yet McGuire, even more beautiful than in her earlier performance in The Enchanted Cottage, must strike true, when she says to Egan with haunting sadness in her eyes as they rekindle a love 20 years lost, "I'm not as pretty anymore. I'm sorry for that". Such modesty and humilty are virtually unknown to our generation. Such reserve of character and power. Those incapable of being moved by this scene are barbarians!

And whoever this "Poopy" person might be who reviewed the film, with all respect to freedom of thought, nevertheless, it is obvious that he/she rather missed the point entirely in his/her outrage that two step children might fall in love and marry. Obviously, he/she hasn't figured out that step-children (the roles of Dee and Donohue) are not biologically related to one another! To call this a soap opera is ridiculous, for this film holds many things darker and more unimaginable than any soap opera. For the Poopies of the world I respectfully recommend a strong cup of coffee, some fresh air, proper nutrition and a good university biology course.

To more sensible and sensitive prospective viewers who might have enjoyed the priviledge of a little life experience, this film is a gift for the soul. Sublte in its depiction of the sicknesses that plague human beings and their societies, the whole morality discussion in the film might switch on a light bulb for anyone who has watched the news in the last 4 years. The film is architectonic and sure-footed in its presentation of adult love, perhaps uncomfortably structural for generations of post-nouvelle-vague viewers weaned on the thin milk of dissapation and nebulosity. This film is a shimmering work with vails of meaning far beyond its sturdy dramaturgical structure. It requires the viewer to function on more than one level, with which our multi-tasking generation seems, ironically, rather to have some problems. There are indeed some uptight 50's characters in the film. There are also some uptight 50's characters walking around today in gothic dress! However, there are mostly some characters and themes of timeless beauty in the film. It stays true to the metaphor of the title in its attempt to show us how to find our own summer place.