This is the Last Unicorn which had "re-runed" on several channels, including Disney a couple years back. Nothing much has changed from that, other than the quality of the videotape.

The quality of the videotape is a grade up compared to the VHS and television versions, which have been grainy. The pictures are clear and crisp, a nice added touch yet stays true to the quality of the film itself (no deleted scenes). For some reason many of the 2004 reviews have stated that the quality is bad. This is inaccurate when comparing the DVD's picture quality to the trailer feature of the disc and the original VHS. This dvd has been played on a 2009 Xbox 360.

The only audio-availability on this dvd verison is dolby 2.0 and 5.0. The subtitles are for spanish and english, but the audio output is in english only.

As for features there is not much to offer. There is an interview of the author concerning the making of the book, the "lost chapters" of how the book truly started and a boring game of the red bull.

Some reviews have been about censorship of the movie, or in other words "edited". The movie from the television version has not been edited from its origin (as far as television re-runs go) and infact yes, there is one swear word. When the hunchback henchman is talking to Fortuna in front of the harpy cage he says " I don't care how many damn spells you got on her, get rid of that harpy!"

There are no deleted scenes or plot-breaking edits that would truly affect the entire quality of the original story-line itself. The impact of these edits aren't very important for a couple of word changes like "hell" or whatnot as there was little offensive words to began with. As an example of a "stripped" movie, try Once Upon a Time which was suppose to be the original Windaria. Now that's a censored version. As for TLU the harpy is still as ugly, naked and vicious as it was in the original.

This is a good dvd to get if you want the movie itself, however it is lacking in the "goodie" department as far as concerning special features.