Every so often a movie comes along where I think, "How the heck have I not seen this before?" Invasion of the Body Snatchers falls into that category. It is, of course, not to be confused with the original 1956 film of the same name.

This version stars Donald Sutherland, Brooke Adams, Jeff Goldblum, and Leonard "Spock" Nimoy. I originally saw it when I was flipping around the channels on a Sunday afternoon, and ran across the very beginning of the movie on Showtime. I missed the first 15 minutes, but it was pretty easy to pick up what was going on. Normally, I would have kept changing the channels, but the sight of Sutherland and Nimoy talking to each other caused me to halt temporarily. Or so I thought. Instead, I ended up watching the entire movie (and have rewatched it several times since then).

Before I get into how interesting the characters were, the acting quality, how they modified the story, or how it compares to the original movie, I have to stress one major thing: The camera and environmental work in this movie is phenomenal. People don't make movies like this anymore. This was 1978, so there was no CGI. Instead, unique camera angles were used and the visuals just oozed paranoia and bleakness. Shadows, repeated themes, hand-held camera shots, and unsaturated colors set the tone throughout the film.

Allow me to elaborate, without spoiling the movie plot: There's one scene near the end when Donald Sutherland is walking down a long sidewalk. The camera is set low, so you only see him from the waist up. A huge gray edifice is set before him, the sky is gray, a few birds are flying overhead, he's wearing a rumpled trench coat, and as he walks, he is passing by an endless row of barren trees. This shot was composed completely of naturally-occurring elements and without the aid of modern computers. And you know what? It works. The feeling you get while watching it is much more powerful than anything that could be computer generated these days.

Of course, this scene wouldn't seem genuine with anyone other than Donald Sutherland. He is a very versatile actor and I get the feeling that his character was custom-tailored for him. He speaks naturally, his mannerisms are perfect, and there are a couple of times where he really nails the emotion of a shot. Whether it's a look of fear, suspicion, or anger, he's 100% there. The other major actors in the film, Nimoy and Goldblum, are equally as good. Leonard Nimoy plays a glove-wearing psychologist (I keep expecting him to say something like, "My calculations show that there cannot possibly be life on Ceti Alpha Six."), while Jeff Goldblum is his usual wacky self. As expected, he fits quite nicely in paranoid Sci-Fi movies. The leading lady, Brooke Adams, was excellent as well. She provided a nice counter-balance to Sutherland's character, while she added her own brand of terrified confusion to the mix.

In my opinion, the 70s version of Invasion of the Body Snatchers is far better than the original 50s version. While I've always been a fan of the mood-setting that black & white films can provide, I think the color 70's version has it beat, which is extremely rare for me. I almost always prefer B&W over color when it comes to moody stuff like this. Plus, the acting is on a whole other level than the original. After all, the 70s version contains multiple powerhouse actors/actresses during the prime of their careers. How can it possibly go wrong?

Finally, I should note that this version of the movie is not so much of a remake, but a reimagining. Very few aspects of the original are reused here, other than the pod people, and the tone is much more intense. While the original film is often viewed as a commentary on the dangers of communism, this one is more geared more as a warning of rampant consumerism. I think this works better today because of this difference.

If you get a chance to see this movie on TV, or rent it, you should seize the opportunity. Especially if you're a thriller or horror genre fan. You will not be disappointed.