In my opinion, the Blu-ray format simply isn't for all movies or shows.  For instance I don't see the sense in watching say, "Breakfast Club" in Blu-ray.  That being said, this is definitely one of those movies that I was happy to see finally released on Blu-ray.  I also feel the need to say that of the two movies that were released "Coincidentally" within the same time-frame this one is without doubt the better of the two, the other being the movie titled "Wyatt Earp" starring Kevin Costner.  I suppose I just have this thing about Kevin Costner being in a movie, except I thought "Dances With Wolves" was a great movie, yet even then I find myself imagining different actors in that role, and well I'd probably cast Kurt Russell in that movie as well.

THE DVD and BLU-RAY FORMAT:

Sorry, getting back with Tombstone, from a Blu-ray standpoint I enjoyed the crisp detail and in contrast to another review felt that the Audio sounded great.  I was, however, disappointed that the release did not include the Director's Cut and wonder why Blu-ray releases continue to make this mistake with excluding other versions since I as remember when the format had first debuted that extra content such as this was one of the great features of having so much more room.

THE MOVIE and CASTING:

As far as the movie and the story, this well so well cast that I was surprised that it didn't win just a ton of awards.  Kurt Russel as Wyatt Earp and Val Kilmer as Doc Holliday was brilliant.  This along with a cameo appearance of Charlton Heston and the remaining cast of Sam Elliot, Dana Delany, and Bill Paxton just to name a few recreated a legend that will forever mark what the Western Frontier and the rewards and sacrifices that came along with it was all about;  A truly excellent film.

FINAL THOUGHTS:

A lot of people think my best friend looks exactly like Kevin Costner and I suppose I see the likeness.  I also wonder what "Dances with Wolves" would have been like with say Christian Slater, James Spader, Edward James Olmos, or even Edward Norton?

I give Tombstone the Blu-ray version a 9 out of 10 - 1 point for not having the Director's Cut included.
However Tombstone the Movie a 10 out of 10!