When hearing about the making of this movie, I had mixed feelings. You see, my father is a huge Stooge fan and owns about every episode of the three bone heads. While I usually take my mom's side of the entertainment boat, I have always found myself enjoying the Stooges. It's more than just smacks and puns. It's the characters, their history, and their ability to make you laugh.

So when this movie came out, I was worried. Hollywood has a tendency to.....how do I put this.....slaughter TV history's most lovable characters. And when the trailer was realized I was also a little worried because of the dreaded and unneeded "bikini nun" scene.

But during the time of the release my father was very stressed. You see, he is a pastor and a police officer. Both jobs don't really fall under the "fun" category. Some things popped up at the church and county work was starting to get to him. So I thought it might be good for us to wing a visit to the local theater and take in an hour and a half of the Stooges.

Grabbed my popcorn, sat down, and my fingers were crossed....Either this movie would do justice or ruin the Stooges for everyone.....and before I could even finish my first handful of popcorn I started choking on it....from laughter....

Another fact you may want to know is that my father doesn't laugh much. He's got a gift for making people laugh and he's got an amazing sense of humor. But, he doesn't laugh that much. Well, as soon as the movie started that all changed. I have never, repeat, never heard him laugh so much. This movie left you with a huge smile on your face. They did the Stooges, they weren't just doing them, they WERE the stooges. The quirks, the gags, and the "NUKS" were all there.

It took me a full day to get rid of that stupid smile I had on, but that didn't stop me from seeing it again (mom dodged it the first time, but the second my dad MADE her see it). He now calls it his "Favorite movie".

I'm a pushover for movie with good writing....and that's not really what I saw here, there were more slaps than words. But to see the Stooges after all these years come to life again, that was priceless. Would I recommend this movie? That depends. If you loved the Stooges, you need to see this film. If you didn't, then don't torture yourself. But again, for those people who know them, and enjoy them. This movie will make your day and always bring a smile to your face when you think about it.