This is the sort of action flick that has the little extra story to keep it interesting for someone who will not be satisfied with just action, in the same category as, say, "Clear And Present Danger". Terry Thorne (R. Crowe) is a London-based "K&amp;R" (Kidnap &amp; Ransom) consultant sent to a chaotic South American country of your choice to negotiate the release of kidnapped engineer Peter Bowman. Due to the acquisition of Bowman's company by another, there is suddenly noone willing to pay the K&amp;R fees for Thorne and the ransom itself, and so Thorne is whistled back to London, Mission Not Accomplished. But he feels sorry for the despairing wife (M. Ryan) and goes back on his own money soon after. He gets help from old friends (also "K&amp;R consultants"), amongst which actor David Caruso stands out with his cool, straight-talking manner and out-of-control joy when completing the mission, enabling the launch of his own firm in the business. The fact that there is some romantic tension between the wife and the "K&amp;R consultant" is entirely credible (we're talking about a period of more than 100 days of pressure on both, with noone else to run to). Unfortunately, Ryan was inappropriate for this role. Her sunshine face with those childishly blue eyes just never seems really affected by what's going on around. Suspense builds up slowly but effectively towards the last quarter of the movie, and culminates in a nicely choreographed action sequence. Photography and sound in this film are superior, most actors' performance excellent, including of course that of Crowe - although he says "mate" one time too many for my taste (the character he plays is Australian). I also liked the film for another reason. It is mercifully removed from the usual bleeding-heart anti-capitalism of Hollywood and has no sympathy for the kidnappers. And while it's certainly not flattering for the big corporation behind Bowman to leave him in the lurch, the solution does not come from some tax-payer financed intervention (the U.S. embassy is disinterested or incompetent or both.) It is the desire of Crowe's sidekick Caruso to establish himself independently through this coup (=greed!!) and Crowe's own compassion for the victim's family that kick in to the rescue.