The "2.1" release of this film is just a gimmick to get some more product on the shelves prior to the release of Spider-Man 3 -- the extras disc doesn't even include a trailer for Spider-Man *2* though there are a few repetitive looks at #3 on there.

This is a slow, contemplative film, especially for a box-office blockbuster. Most of the conflict and action is going on inside Peter's head as he tries to reconcile all of his personal worries (no money, poor grades in school, his aunt losing her home to foreclosure, lost potential relationship) with his sense of responsibility to share his gifts to help society. The action is slow-burning, but the set pieces are spectacular and all the characters (even the villain "Doctor Octopus" as played by Alfred Molina of "Frida"), are thoughtful and three-dimensional.

The real draw to this DVD, in the event that you haven't bought this movie before, is the low price and the 8 minutes of additional footage. They're mostly quiet additions, focusing on the characters: Peter Parker (Spider-Man, of course) and his elderly Aunt May, his rich friend Harry, and his would-be girlfriend, Mary Jane (Kirsten Dunst, looking sad but lovely). If you haven't seen the theatrical cut more than once, you might not even notice the additions. One is an extended take of Peter's birthday party, which introduces the characters and sets up the conflict between Peter and Harry. My favorites are the lingering shots between Peter and MJ, which were dropped because they interrupted the pace of the theatrical film. It's clear why some were cut out: The improvised elevator goofiness with Hal Sparks runs a bit long, and the scenes of newspaperman J. J. Jameson in Spider-Man costume romping around on his desk are just silly. Other additions which I didn't notices were some special effects shots from the fight scenes, which  just weren't finished in time for release.

Spider-Man 2 is heartbreaking, dazzling, uplifting, romantic ... all while avoiding cheesy cliches as much as possible. I'm cautiously optimistic that chapter 3 will be as good (same cast and production team), but this one will be hard to top.