Who would have believed it?  It really is a worthy successor to Fantasia.
Everyone's already said that it's excellent music and excellent animation - which is true.  
What's been left out is that it's an incredible overview of all the best of what Disney animation has to offer. Even the introduction uses animation techniques impossible a few short years ago. It offers a proper tribute to the original while setting the stage (literally) for a whole new series of wonders.
Beethoven's Fifth is stylized abstract animation -- just a glorious celebration of color, shapes and music, with a complexity impossible without modern computer enhancing techniques. 
Pines of Rome adds new dimensions to CGI animation.  The whales are quite realistic, and their movements are serene and joyful.
The Rhapsody in Blue segment combines a distinctive Anerican music style (Gershwin) to an equally distinctive American art style (Hirschfeld).  Its stylized story-telling is delightful (and I would never have believed that a segment of Fantasia would ever be set in New York City).  Don't recognize the name Hirschfeld?  Well, neither did I - but I recognized that style of caricature instantly. And so will you.
The Steadfast Tin Soldier is an excellent example of adapting a traditional fairy tale to modern animation.  It's classic Disney story-telling with modern techniques, and the movement and art styles of the three main characters make them visually distinctive as well as helping the characterizations. 
The Carnival of the Animals is zany cartooning at its frenetic and silly best.
Mickey in the Sorcerer's Apprentice is as good an example of Classic Disney as you could hope for.
You can almost see the storyboard developing in Pomp and Circumstance.  "The music is associated now primarily with graduation processions, so let's attach it to a traditional procession - the animals entering the Ark.  We want some humor, so let's use Donald. We'll put him in charge of the animals - that will allow a lot of slapstick.  Now, Walt always said for every laugh there must be a tear.  How do we generate tears for Donald?  He's lost Daisy, of course."  It's a symbiotic whole of silliness, pomp, traditional story-telling, animated animals, sadness, joy, and love.
The Phoenix is a natural tale of death and rebirth, using animal, plant, and volcanic movements that are precise, beautiful, incredibly realistic, and compellingly moving.
The movie as a whole is incredible for animation fans, compelling for music fans, fascinating for artists, and satisfying for those (like me) for whom the original Fantasia is one of the best movies ever made.