"City of Angels" is not really about angels nor is it a conventional love story.  Rather, it is a film of colors, archetypes, symbols and dreams.  It is a meticulously constructed filmplay on healing the soul, finding wholeness and spirituality within, accepting what you may not like about yourself, and integrating parts of yourself you may have hidden or put on hold for a while (especially while building a career).  
Much symbolism in the film comes from mythology and early Christianity (particularly Gnosticism).  Folks who have gone through analysis -- particularly Jungian -- probably see many of the symbols and archetypes immediately.  Religious studies professors may be intrigued or intellectually chagrined by the allusions to Gnosticism.  But even those of us with such backgrounds will need to see the movie several times before all the images bubble to the surface of consciousness! 
The film is heavily laden with symbolism.  It drips with it.  For me, discovering all the layers turned into a puzzle requiring Jungian-type amplification (digging into the meaning of everything). I am not, however, going to give hints to discovering the "secret knowledge" hidden in the film.  One must experience it oneself (a basic Gnostic belief, I have learned).
The good news -- after deconstructing this film beyond reason, I still love it.  I love the music (especially the chanting of "Angelus" as Seth "falls").  The archetypes, symbols and hidden meanings do not detract from the story.  The story remains is a thing in itself-- a unity.  The hidden content does not change the meanings either, but rather allows the viewer a (separate) deeper understanding of human relationships and the healing of the soul.
I recommend this film to psychology and religious studies professors, who could challenge students to find the Gnostic Christian, mythological and Jungian content. 
By the way, a deeply Christian viewer need not fear watching the film because of the Gnostic symbolism.  The screenwriter(s) clearly place their interpretation of Gnosticism within monotheism and Godliness.  There is no evil (no Satan)-- only the shadow figure which all humans carry within.  
 Maggie is not the reason Seth has "fallen." Both Seth and Maggie are incomplete human beings. They fall in love -- a very magical, profound love -- as mirror images of hidden parts of themselves.  At the end, we see that Maggie integrates Seth-ness into herself, and Seth integrates Maggie-ness into himself.  And, not to spoil your own journey of discovery, I will leave it at that.
This is a very profound film.  Unfortunately it was beyond the critics and everyone else who knights and awards great films.