The Truman Show

 The Truman Show featuring Jim Carry, is about a guy who lives in a pretend world.  He is unaware that his everyday life and job are not real.  He is also unaware ha the entire world is watching. This pretend world Jim Carry lives in is he perfect place with no crime and everyone is happy all the time.  I thought the movie was very well made and was one of he better movies done by Jim Carry.  After watching it, I thought there were many issues within the Christian world that can be compared to the movie. One is how Christians separate ourselves from the world and make our own.  Another is how Christians raise their children.  There can also be another twist to the movie.  We see that Truman's life is controlled by the producer of the show, Christoff.  He can be seen as a God-figure because has has controlled Truman's life and all the events in it. So there are a few ways the movie can be looked at that I will be addressing.

 In the movie, Truman has what some call the American dream.  He has a house, a wife, and a good job.  All seems to be well in his life.  He has no problems.  This is why, in reality, his life is a TV show.  People find it entertaining that he lives in a separate ''world''.  I think sometimes Christians, especially in our culture, have tried to create our own world.  We separate ourselves so much from the outside world, or reality, that we are blinded by what is really going on in the world.  We try to make Christianity into what so often looks like the world Truman lived in.  We need to face the fact that God has placed us in the world in order to share the Gospel with people that have not heard it.  This means going out into the world where that are many problems.

 Another issue I saw in the movie that could be related to our culture or Christianity is how Christians raise their children.  Truman was sheltered from the outside world.  He did not know what it was like to deal with real life issues.  His life was completely controlled by the producer of the show.  I can see how this relates to Christians because we try to shelter people from the world and control their lives.  I think it's important to allow kids to make their own choices and learn from their mistakes.  That said, it is also important to have a balance of allowing kids to make their own choices and knowing when to intervene and take control.  If we shelter our children from he outside world how will we expect them to be interact with non-believers?

 The last two points I made have many similarities.  The next thing I saw in the movie was different from the above points.  Truman's life was controlled by the producer.  Everything he did was already thought out and planned.  He didn't know why certain events in his life occurred.  As a follower of Christ, I believe God has everything in my life planned, he knows whats going to happen before it happens.  Knowing that God is in control and that I am forgiven for my sins, I know I can experience true freedom.

-Sam