This movie is such an anomaly in today's world.  Almost every frame of this movie is cliched and predictable.  And yet, it has an undeniable charm that makes it absolutely irresistible, even as it is very clumsy in execution.
I was very excited about this film because I am a huge fan of musical theater, particularly Sondheim (who makes a cameo in the film!).  In terms of the musical performances, I was extremely impressed--all of them are good and some of them are truly stunning.  My major disappointment is that nothing was included from Follies, which would have been absolutely fabulous.
It is the energy of the performers that makes this movie.  The acting, particularly by Letterle, is pretty commonplace.  The script is OK, but predictable.  There are some touching scenes though, particularly those involving the perpetually hung-over composer.  The other character that steals the show is that short blond boy with the spiked hair who has this infectious smile (and, of course, the line "We have a SPORTS COUNSELOR?!?") But, basically, there's very little outside the musical numbers to rave about.  
But what spectacular musical numbers they are!  Watching "The Ladies Who Lunch" (particularly Kendrick) is spectacularly entertaining.  And at its sentimental best, the movie cranks out "Here's Where I Stand", boasting yet another great performance by a young performer.  This emotion is almost achieved during "Century Plant," but Letterle's bland acting half-ruins the emotion of the song.
Clearly, the director/writer has true empathy for these misfit characters at Camp Ovation.  By the end of this film, I'm not sure what the director was trying to say, or if there was any particular message.  But I do know that, having viewed this movie, I, just like the director, love these misfit kids, who will leave Camp Ovation to return to "normal" society where it is Eminem, not Stephen Sondheim, who reigns over the music world.  It is this infectious love for these unusual teens, not the abundant cliches, that we are conscious of by the end of the movie.