I'm not going to explain the movie, alot of other people have already done that better than I ever could. I am  though going to tell you if the blu-ray version is better than the standard def release. The visual and audio quality of the blu-ray version of Near Dark is definitely a major improvement over its standard def counterpart. Their is also a few problems for example the only special features are a audio commentary, the living in darkness documentary, one deleted scene with commentary, and two theatrical trailers aswell as two English subtitles and one Spanish. All of the bonus material is in standard definition.

 The problem I have with the collection is with the special features. Since I had the Anchor Bay two disc edition from back in 2002. So I had hoped they would have added additional content, especially considering on the back of the box it says "deleted scenes" which to me implies more than one or maybe a new commentary with Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton, Jenette Goldstein and Adrian Pasdar since they all seem to have fond memories of the movie. At first when you watch the movie where the mosquito scene is at the movie looks a little like the dvd edition then after that it clears up noticeably. Skin tones are spot on  crimson reds almost pop off the screen, and all things considered this movie looks incredible for its age and the fact it had a small budget. On the audio side the film has an English 5.1 DTS-HD Master Audio which can rattle the floors and other things if you have a good audio set up, an English 2.0 PCM Audio which is ok but even if you don't have surround sound use the DTS audio it still sounds better, finally the last Audio is a commentary with just Katherine Bigelow.

 When it comes to the box art the individual who came up with the twilight cover should be smacked upside the head for creating such terrible art. I'll end this review by saying if you want the upgrade by all means buy it just don't expect alot of additional content because you will be disappointed, if you haven't seen it and have a blu-ray player this is the best version to get since this movie looks and sounds alot better than it ever has. Thanks for reading and I hope you enjoy the movie.