Amazon reviewers of this Jean-Pierre Ponnelle "Tristan" are consistently hailing it as the best on DVD.  It certainly has its merits and will likely hold the field against its competition in the Amazon catalog for a while.  Nonetheless, my personal choice for the finest "Tristan" available on DVD remains Daniel Barenboim's second Bayreuth effort: Heiner Muller's restrained, abstracted, but strangely beautiful and ultimately moving version, with an attractive, passionate pair of lovers in Siegfried Jerusalem and, especially, the beautiful Waltraud Meier, both of them assuming these roles for the first time (Meier's Isolde is definitely not "wasted" here, as one reviewer complained about her appearance in the notorious Peter Konwitschny "yellow sofa" DVD).  Unfortunately, for the time being Amazon does not offer this production, and the only DVD version currently available comes with minimal packaging, a slightly soft video image, and, sadly, no subtitles (along with an unbeatable price). If nothing else, though, a comparison of the two productions further underscores the strengths and weaknesses of the Ponnelle.

That earlier Bayreuth staging definitely appears as the more overtly "romantic," naturalistic (albeit highly stylized), and ultimately conservative (save of course for the famous ending).  Ponnelle coaxes committed though not always entirely subtle performances from his principals.  Johanna Meier is a formidable vocal artist, if a bit matronly (in purely visual terms, it is hard to escape the impression that she should be the Brangane to Hanna Schwarz's Isolde).  Rene Kollo similarly sings with distinction and looks striking all in black, though I don't find him quite as convincing a young warrior and lover as does another reviewer.  The aforementioned Hanna Schwarz has long been a favorite of mine, and I was privileged to see one of Matti Salminen's first Met performances of King Marke many years ago.  Their presence, along with the assured conducting of Barenboim (though perhaps not quite up to the stature he would later attain in this work), contribute to making this the most recommendable "Tristan" in the Amazon catalog.  It would not hurt for prospective buyers to bear in mind, though, that the Muller production is also available, and at a bargain price--if only as a contrast and complement to the Ponnelle.