Ladies, Ladies, PLEASE!!  Please stop this bickering.  My fellow reviewer, "Shadow Lady" (see below), is about ready to explode a gasket with her disdain and contempt for the lovely Miss Garson.  "Shadow" paints much too bleek a picture while her lowly peer, Little Miss Proper ("Princess Incognita") has sugar coated Greer's character into a sticky little marshmellow of misinformation.  The definitive opinion (my own, of course) is the important one, and is somewhere in between.  
First of all, this movie has a disturbing pagan slant that could be quite offensive to devout religious types like myself. Surprisingly frequent references to "witchhunting" and the Dark Ages.  Basic storyline: A steel tycoon's son (Gregory the "impeccable peckerhead" Peck) loves the family maid who just happens to be an Irish steelworker's daughter!  And WOW, the setting is even "Victorian" Pittsburgh, PA in the late 1800's!
Ranting and raving is the predominant rule of thumb as Greer's Daddy (a crusty old codger clucking away in his wheel chair) throws one hissy fit after another.  "I'm reachin' into high heaven to put the curse on this marriage" (it's a bit complicated, but he's madder than a hornet's nest that the steel workers' demand of a 5 cent per hour raise has fallen upon deaf ears)!  Peck's rich and reasonable father seems hellbent on resolving the conflict until one day (in a peculiar and nutty twist) he is gunned down in broad daylight.  All he said was, "We Scotts cannot live without belching chimney's anymore than you can."  For crying out loud. His subsequent and imminent demise was quite unexpected, I must say.
The film alternates between a hopelessly naive romance and nasty hillbilly feuding.  An occasional dose of sharp dialogue is overshadowed by the cantankerous.  Or as one hapless victim proclaimed, "For once in your life, will you just keep your mouth shut!"  Oh shucks, another predictable cliche!  Why, there's even the occasional "shuffling Negro" ("That's right, Sir!") which may be a bit perturbing to some.  Fortunately, the first half of this film has its moments of brilliance but it flickers, and then eventually fades.