...you know, I got nothing against They Might Be Giants. I like some of their records, and they seem like nice guys who have found a unique niche and have weathered some tough times in a cruel and thankless industry. Their work is rooted in deep friendship and hard work. Very admirable. However, does that make for a good film? Not at all...their story has no genuine drama, no tension, no excitement. It's not that they're a bad band -- this is just a bad subject for a film.

This doc is pretty mediocre in almost every way: construction, execution, etc. Lots of talking heads, though aside from the wonderous Syd Straw, no one really distinguishes themselves as particularly charismatic. In fact, it just seems like they are lined up to kiss TMBG's co-rump. Sarah Vowell is particularly grating, steering the audience through a sea of incredibly obvious observations with a smug sense of self satisfaction, like she was Sir Francis Drake or something. I'm a nerd, and even I felt like giving her a swirly after hearing her talk for 30 seconds. Good thing I don't listen to the radio, because I hear she's on it from time to time.

Another thing that irks me about this picture is how everyone talks about their innovative early live shows and how they used tapes and props, and then the filmmakers' cut to a very conventional, dull contemporary show. Not that the current touring lineup of TMBG is bad...it's just that it's incongruous and shortsells some of the band's most artistically productive achievements.

Also, the device where comedians (Andy Richter, Michael McKean, Harry Shearer, etc) read TMBG lyrics just comes off as smarmy. The small-town quaintness segments (the Polk history lesson, the debate team, etc) are a good idea but inserted jarringly and with the carelessness of a film school freshman.

Another thing that's odd...most of the "we're doing the rock band thing around New York City" footage happens between September 7 and September 10th, 2001. I know, because the filmmakers put dates on it. I'm no prophet of doom, but don't you think it would have been better to leave the dates off? All I could think in my mind was "Our world is about to change irreversabley in 7 hours, but here we are at a TMBG in-store in Manhattan." Scarey. Could have easily been avoided.

That said, there are nice extras on the DVD, particularly the amazing Tonight Show performance (I'd like to see Brandford, Eubanks, and Co. pull that off today!) and Adam Bernstein's great early videos.

Nice guys shouldn't finish last, and they don't always. But that doesn't make the race interesting to watch.