Given the reviews by prominent newspapers and magazines, I looked forward to viewing "Dolphin Tale" with a lot of enthusiasm, and even bought the DVD without viewing it first (I don't know why I don't learn from past experiences....).  It had a great cast, and had Winter, the actual dolphin, telling this tale of survival and hope.  However, I was sickened by the "disney-ism" of the story--the overly-sweet and incredibly unrealistic portrayals of all the characters involved.  Morgan Freeman's character was stupified into a bumbling "scientist" making inept attempts to help Winter; the actual scientist was much more knowledgeable about what he was dealing with, and it was a mis-use of a brilliant actor.  The children in this make-believe story were nice actors, but the writers missed the boat on them, giving them almost adult attitudes that were unbelievable for the ages of children.  The animal actors were given behaviors that were cartoonish and not factual whatsoever, but typical of a Disney movie.  I expected to see the actual story of Winter's rescue and follow the attempts to fit her with a prosthesis--what I got was a story that was "inspired by" her story.  That means yes, Winter was rescued and had a new tail made for her, but the rest was a cartoon--this movie would have been better made as an animated feature, which would have allowed for the mis-represented and unbelievable, human-like behaviors forced onto the animals.

I expect that the same tripe will be served up to audiences for the upcoming "Big Miracle", the story of the three young gray whales trapped by Artic ice, and 2 were rescued by volunteers cutting holes into the ice in a trail leading them to open water.  I read the book by Tom Rose ("Big Miracle") of the actual rescue, and there weren't any children mentioned, and the woman portrayed by Drew Barrymore was just one of the many people involved with the rescue.  So we will be fed a another fairy tale story of behavoirs not seen in wild animals, even from such intelligent creatures such as whales, and a riduculous fairy tale about the people involved.  It makes me sick, knowing that some people will believe this fictitious story (and that of "Dolphin Tale") as actual fact, instead of viewing it as a fairy tale.  So beware whenever you see the words "inspired by the story of...", don't believe a word they say.  And certainly never, ever purchase a DVD with that disclaimer without viewing it first!!!  You will always be disappointed.