The Frighteners harks back to those wonderfully entertaining films of the 1980's where a highly polished plot, loveable (non-stereotyped) characters, dazzling special effects and a tongue held firmly in the cheek combined to provide movies that the whole family could watch and enjoy. But then, what did you expect from Robert Zemeckis, or Michael J. Fox for that matter, for whom this film is the high point of a tragically up-down career due to Parkinson's Disease. Obviously The Frighteners is for a slightly older audience, but it retains the childlike appeal of those 80's films without being childish. It even manages to poke fun at Twin Peaks, the X Files, Ghost, Full Metal Jacket and Psycho, whilst passing comment on the fashion-sense of the 1970's and humorously exposing the eccentricities of small town life, and being an engrossingly semi-scary movie at the same time. In short, it's got a bit of everything for everyone.
The star of this film is its ability to combine elements. There's an ancient mass murder, a lunatic asylum, a haunted house, a murderous ghost, an overbearing mother, a guilty daughter, a psychic investigator who can see ghosts, a recently widowed doctor, a woman-fearing FBI Agent, and a multitude of ghosts from all eras of history, yet it never bites off more than it can chew. An even better combination is in the actors; Michael J. Fox as the untypical hero is perfect beside the gorgeous Trini Alvarado as untypical heroine (she actually has personality); the regular Hollywood actors are brilliantly offset by cult oddball Jeffrey Combs in a decidedly non-mainstream turn of acting; Jake Busey once again proves he is a more than adequate replacement for the love-to-hate figure of Gary. Amidst high-spills, otherworldly encounters, psychic flashbacks and psychotic personalities, the humour and human element weave seamlessly in and out of one another, at once horrifying and hysterical. And for the more discerning viewer, the switch from closed to open form camerawork, especially in the confrontational scene between Combs and Fox in the Sheriff's Department, is a definite filmmaking plus to look out for.
What more is there to say? The Frighteners engrosses you, scares you, makes you laugh, has you gasping and cheering in all the right places, and is filled with so many interesting minor details (such as one ghost's electrocution scars) that you can watch it time and time again. Zemeckis has been quoted as saying: "Good directing is good writing and good casting, that's all!" The Frighteners is the only evidence you need to prove that.