It's hard to come out with consistently good albums. Few bands can come out with more than 2 or 3 without releasing a few band ones along the way. This is especially true with live albums, and the amount of live material Dream Theater has released both officially and unofficially doesn't help this CD at all.

Most people reading this review already know what to expect: the instruments are pretty much dead on, the vocals are way above average and hit stellar, but not without a few nails on the chalkboard moments (hey, no overdubs, so what do you expect?).

I think casual fans will love this DVD, especially those who are just getting into Dream Theater. While it's not as flashy as other DVDs around, it definitely covers a wider range of material than most of score and showcases the various talents of the band's members.

But hardcore fans aren't going to like it so much. While the setlist is different and there are certainly gems included, we've seen the official DVDs of the last two albums, which are some of the best any band has ever put out. We've seen the official bootlegs, too. So it's pretty safe to say that this, on the whole, is nothing new for us. Being able to listen to songs like "scarred" and "surrounded 07" as well as satisfying the normal curiosity of hearing songs live for the first time is about all this album will do for the diehards.

Dream Theater set the bar too high too often, so it shouldn't be a surprise when sometimes DVD budgets or concert budgets aren't as high as last time around. I give this 4 stars because, though it deserves less by DT standards, giving it anything lower is a sin when you match it up to the bland, overdubbed albums other bands put out maybe once or twice in their careers.

Give it some time, and be thankful that Dream Theater use their budget for this kind of thing. Soon, if you're like me, you'll be glad to add this to the cycle of Dream Theater DVDs available for watching or showing friends.  Like with most things Dream Theater do now, reactions may be harsh at first but this too will eventually be considered a classic.