First, let me lay my cards on the table:  I'm a conservative Republican, am generally pro-military (i.e. U.S.), and distrust Oliver Stone nearly as much as I do Michael Moore.  Further, I don't know if I've ever agreed with a thing that the Sheen family has said.  Yet even though some of my political pals disdain this movie, I feel differently.  I half-expected a heavy dose of lefty propaganda and intentional distortion, but for the most part was pleasantly surprised.  I try to evaluate every item I encounter fairly and individually (instead of a knee jerk reaction), and these are my thoughts on Platoon, after viewing it again tonight:

On the 'positive' side, the film rightly shows the awfulness of war.  Again and again, liberals seem to think that those on the right somehow deny this.  Of course we do not!  I give the movie high marks for depicting war as a living nightmare.  Personally, I cringe when some of the older movies represent war as little more than a comic book boys' fantasy.  I also thought Platoon contained some admirable acting (Sheen, Dafoe, Berenger, David), and combat scenes.  It held me throughout.

The one major criticism I would make, and the flaw that keeps it from being an elite film in my opinion, is the way in which it reaches too far to show the dark side and corruption of the soldiers (American).  Stone has a crippling weakness for sensationalism (evidence: JFK), and it seeped through some here.  For instance, you cannot take the worst atrocities (even if they are all factual, which I question) and then portray them as representative of a typical company of soldiers and their Vietnam experience.  Yet this was the impression given.  In fact, it was basically the story.  This is irresponsible and misleading.  One of the film's few faults, but a bad one.

However, when considered as a whole, Platoon has much to commend it.  While it is unfortunate that its weaknesses diminish its merit, they do not ruin it.  I'd be very surprised if Stone ever makes another movie nearly as good.