There are 2 kinds of martial arts film: epics like "Seven Samurai," and adventures like "Yojimbo," to name two from Japanese cinema. Master of the Flying Guillotine fits under the adventure catalogue, as do most of the 70's Hong Kong breed.
To open the film we see a very old, and even eviler, blind man tossing around a kind of hat with spikes sticking out of it, the title weapon which he's throwing onto, then yanking off, the heads of chickens for practice, when he gets a message via pigeon that his 2 disciples have been killed by the "One-Armed Boxer." The Master of the Flying Guillotine sets out to murder all the one armed people he can find.
Don't worry about him, even though he's blind as a bat, he is a master of the stupidest weapon in the history of the motion picture cinema; he also is a "Kung Fu Champion of Planet Ninja." Well, maybe I made that up, but he has been known to hurl a coffin or two at his enemies, and the occasional axe that gets thrown offensivesly into his torso.
After killing some innocent one armed men, his finds that the real one armed boxer is atending, but not dueling in, a martial arts tournament (This being one of those tournaments to the death you've been hearing so much about). All hell breaks loose when the old guy crashes the party, and in the process kills a couple more people, but not the boxer. But this is all just set up for a no-holds-barred showdown inside a coffin factory.
But that's not all; along with the above mentioned fighters, there's a cast of folks with strange kung-fu abilities. A good example would have to be a Hindu swami, the kind who can stretch his arms out 10 ft. long and slap people. And there's a fighter who uses his bare feet to kick things, because he's trained them to be ultra powerful weapons, but not fire proof. There's even a crazy guy who uses a style of fighting called "Monkey Boxing;" if only HBO sports could have monkey-and-one-armed boxing...
But my personal favorite would have to be the Japanese wonder "Win-Without-a-Knife-Yakuma," who actually wins with two knives that are concealed in a pair of sword breakers. Go figure. His character is perfect as the fighter who fights only to see what fighter fights the best (He hopes its him). And did I mention he's a real jerk.
With this eccentric cast, some of the worst theme music of all time, some cheesey 70's dubbing and special effects (our heroic boxer walks up some walls, and his fellow actors often leap over buildings), and the fact that the cast obviously had some fun filming this thing, Master of the Flying Guillotine has turned out to be one of the greatest, or at least most fun to watch, martial arts film to come out of Hong Kong.