First, the good news:  Superman/Batman APOCALYPSE is an excellent movie and worth buying.  It is at least as good as PUBLIC ENEMIES and better than CRISIS ON TWO EARTHS.  Contrary to reports, Batman is prominently featured and the way that Wonder Woman is introduced early and Darkseid re-introduced late was very well done and each was a bit surprising.  The use of the same voices for Batman (Conroy), Superman (Daly), and Wonder Woman (Eisenberg) helps with continuity to JL/JLU fans, and Summer Glau was excellent as Supergirl.  Andre Braugher was a decent Darkseid, but I missed the deeper, threatening and menacing voice of Michael Ironside.  Kudos for bringing back Ed Asner as the voice of Granny Goodness.  Most importantly, the artwork - more stylistic and `pointed' than in JL or JLU - is not too much of a deviation from the earlier cartoons.

Second, the Blu-Ray edition of APOCALPYSE is excellent.  Even on my 2006 Philips 720p plasma from 2006, colors and images were stunning (I have a Sony 460 Blu-Ray Player).  The improvement from the regular DVD which I also tested was noticeable on my 50", a bit less so on the 42" and smaller HDTVs.  Audio was excellent and dialog was easily decipherable without going back and reviewing or using closed captions.  Four cartoons are included from JUSTICE LEAGUE cartoon series and they're all Darkseid-themed with two featuring Supergirl.  The short episode for GREEN ARROW was excellent and the behind-the-scenes features dealing with the DC Universe are a nice touch if you want to see all the extra work that goes into making modern, top-quality cartoon direct-to-disc efforts and explore some of the themes in this and other DC  recent releases.

There aren't a lot of shortcomings but there are a few.  The Superman cartoons included were not upconverted so the quality is mediocre.  I can live with the 4:3 OAR but there is no reason not to improve the picture quality on a Blu-Ray disc for cartoons that aired in the 1990's.  And given the data requirements, I think they could have added more cartoons from JL or JLU featuring Darkseid.  How about some Superman or JL shorts from the 1970's Legion Of Doom years or the early-1980's Legendary Super Powers Show/Galactic Guardians (first cartoon introductions of Darkseid) or some from the "Lost Episodes" year ?  Might also help DVD sales of those earlier and long-forgotten series if they piqued today's fans interest.

The movie runs 75 minutes long which is the standard for the DC Universe direct-to-disc cartoons.  If they lengthened the movie a bit they could delve more into issues like Kryptonian mythology or background information on other JL/JLU members or villains like Darkseid or Doomsday.  STARCROSSED remains the best example of great storytelling, action, and background (on Hawkgirl) in the JL/JLU universe, IMO.  GREEN LANTERN: FIRST FLIGHT remains the best of the recent DC releases and I would not have minded seeing Hal Jordan or John Stewart involved in some one-on-one action with Darkseid or any future villains in any future releases.  DC Comics, take note !

All in all, an excellent Blu-Ray disc and well worth the purchase.