It is really rare when I find a movie that I can just watch over and over again and crack up. The Birdcage is one of those movies. And to think I wouldn't have even seen it if my parents hadn't loosened up a little! I'm 13 and an only child, so my parents are real picky when it comes to what I can and can't see for movies. Since Birdcage has an R rating, my parents were taking a risk when they let me watch it. Well, all I can say is had my parents not taken that risk, I would've missed out on seeing one of the most fantastic movies ever made. I can actually watch this with my mom and not be embaressed, we fall over each other laughong every time! There are so many funny lines to repeat and no matter how many times you hear them, you hurt yourself laughing [Albert talking to Senator Keeley on how homosexuality is weakening the country: "You know, that's what I thought until I found out that Alexander the Great was a fag. Talk about gays in the military!"]. Classic!
But all kidding aside, this movie teaches something about finding yourself and accepting yourself for who you are and about getting other people to accept you. Armand[Robin Williams, a gay man who owns a drag club], Armand's son Val[Sorry, I forget that actor's name], and Agador[Armand's housekeeper, also gay and in THE BEST part of his life] go insane trying to fix up the house to look more conservative, just in time for Val's fiancee Barbara[Calista Flockhart, right before she became Ally McBeal] and Barbara's parents Senator[Gene Hackman] and Mrs. Keeley[Dianne Wiest, who is perfect for this part]to come to meet Val's family. The road they take just to please the Keeleys is so funny, and when the Keeleys come for dinner, hold on to your stomach!
The acting is top-notch. Nathan Lane is amazingly realistic as Albert the drag queen. I don't really like Robin Williams when he's acting like a total wacko, but here he's simmered down a little and he ROCKS! Gene Hackman and Dianne Wiest are perfect for their parts, and my only complaint is that Calista Flockhart's character Barabara didn't have many lines. The few times she does talk, she is also perfect for her part. Calista has the soft voice and sweet nature required for Barbara's part, although Barabara couldn't be more different than Ally McBeal! 
The fact that this movie teaches a lesson in learning to love yourself while splitting open your sides at the same time is brilliant, this movie is brilliant. Just Because I'm a kid, please do yourself a favor and rent or buy this film, I guarentee you won't be disappointed. Everyone should see this movie at some point in their lives, but wait until you're old enough to fully appreciate the message as well as the humor.