Sometimes we just need a "feel good" movie the whole family can watch and walk away with something positive and uplifting. You'll want to see Seabiscuit. This movie is based on a true story of three men and a racehorse - all four were considered misfits and underdogs and yet, became champions.

I'd like to recommend you gather up the family, your favorite snacks and beverages to watch an uplifting and inspirational movie about how belief, determination and an unstoppable spirit can make what seems impossible, possible.

If there is a part of you who loves to cheer for the underdog - this movie is for you. You'll want the underdog to win and the impossible to happen. When the impossible really does happen, you'll have to remind yourself that this movie is based on real-life events. This movie version is based on the beautifully written book by Laura Hillenbrand.

This well-written story takes place during the Depression years, when the United States was in need of hope and optimism. During this bleak time, along came a small horse and a half blind jockey who competed against all odds and came out victorious against some of the finest racehorses that money could buy. Seabiscuit gave the country a reason to believe that determination and spirit could prove to be more powerful than size and might.

What do you think, is the message as timely today as it was in the 1930's?

Seabiscuit is a beautifully filmed and wonderfully acted movie. It's the story of three men and a racehorse all needing each other and the dream of victory that binds them together.

Here are the underdogs:
* A jockey, brilliantly played by Toby Maguire, who is searching for emotional peace while dealing with physical issues that could potentially keep him from his true love of riding and racing.

* A trainer, who had given up on his fellow man but relates to and understands how to bring out the best in his beloved horses.

* The businessman, portrayed by Jeff Bridges, recovering from the loss of a child and looking for a reason to go forward - toward the future.

* And then there's Seabiscuit, the unruly undersized horse whose spirit to win had been "trained" out of him. Although trained to lose, the champion he knows he is remains in his heart.

Fate intervenes and all four of these underdogs came together giving each other hope, respect and an unstoppable reason to believe in themselves and one another.

Here are a few of my favorite quotes from the movie:
"You don't throw a whole life away because it's banged up a little."
"The little guy who doesn't know he's a little guy can do great things."
"Winners don't give up even when life beats them by a nose."

I highly recommend Seabiscuit as a motivational must see! Even if you're not an "emotional" person, it's best to have a box of tissues near by just in case.