Brian DePalma's Femme Fatale is a film noir told from the perspective of a femme fatale, named Lilly, who's played by Rebecca Romijn-Stamos. If you're familiar with the film noir genre, then you know for a fact that the femme fatale is usually the most conniving character of them all. She is a villain, whose evilness never really registers with the conflicted male hero until after (a) they've had sex (b) she has manipulated him into killing her husband and (c) she points a gun at his face. In these movies, the brain knows no war between it and the penis that the penis hasn't won. The male hero of Femme Fatale is an ex-paparazzo, named Nicolas Bardo, played by Antonio Banderas, who is paid a hefty sum to photograph Lilly, the wife of France's American Ambassador, for a tabloid magazine. Because Lilly would rather remain anonymous - she has enemies of her own, too, yah know - she goes on a mission to coerce the photographer into doing a dirty deed for her (i.e. rob her husband).
What separates Femme Fatale from most film noirs is its pretzel narrative. Like David Lynch's hypnotic Mulholland Drive, the film blurs the line between reality and dreams. There's a moment in the movie where Lilly, who is a blonde, meets her brunette look-a-like. Not once does Brian dePalma ever explain their relationship (are they sisters; does the brunette represent a possible future for the blonde...). If my memory serves me correct, Lilly isn't French, but an American, who can speak French. However, her parents are French. And the brunette, I suppose, is French, too... Or maybe I'm wrong... Or maybe, trying to understand their bond is totally irrelevant (Lilly does tell the brunette that she is "her fairy God mother," but who knows, that might have been a sarcastic remark). But by the end of the movie, we do learn that one of their actions plays an important part in determining where both of their lives will ultimately lead... yeah.
Believe it or not, the film's complicated plot isn't its flaw (after all, mystery, however complex, is always interesting). My problem with the movie is that it substitutes engaging the heart for wowing your eyes with elegant eye candy. Attentive viewers will realize that there is an awesome amount of voyeurism to be found here (i.e. Brian DePalma's camera consistently observes his characters spying on other people through their cameras). But it is this outsider's perspective that hurts Femme Fatale the most, because none of the characters are interesting, or worth caring for, as a result. I suppose that DePalma used Rebecca R. as an attractive decoy for her drooling fans. But for me, her thin physique (not to mention, her minimal acting range) has absolutely nothing on the voluptuousness of Laura Elena Herring, who played the mysterious brunette femme fatale of Lynch's Mulholland Drive.
However, because Femme Fatale (a) struts with the grace of a ballerina, (b) has a distinctive visual look and (c) dares to make a puzzle of it self, it is ten-times more interesting than the mindless straight-to-video skin-fest one might expect this film to be.