After seeing part of the first episode on the BBC while deployed in Kuwait, I had high hopes for this series, but as the British would say in typically understated fashion, those hopes were unfulfilled. I won't dwell on the presentation or the script, which were frankly appalling. For me, it was the content itself which rankled. The series simply doesn't cover British history very well. Although the series includes many fascinating tidbits, particularly regarding the intriques of the succession to the British monarchy, it is disjointed and unfocused. It even stumbles in covering the history of the monarchy, by completely ommitting the War of the Roses.

Mr. Schama misses the mark in two ways which are intertwined. My first objection is with Mr. Schama's choices of which subjects to cover and which to leave out. A couple of examples will suffice. In the coverage of the reign of Elizabeth I, one might expect some detailed coverage of the Spanish Armada and William Shakespeare, right? There is barely a mention of the Armada, and none of Shakespeare. Similarly, during the times of the American and French revolutions, and the Napoleanic wars, one might expect to hear the juicy details of the battles of Trafalgar and Waterloo. Each receives only a single sentence in the narrative with no details whatsoever of these battles which were pivital to the history of Britain (the ostensible subject of this series). Instead, Mr. Schama focuses an entire hour on English Romanticism, dedicating about a quarter of that to the tragic story of one Mary Wollstonecraft. Admittedly, I had never heard of her, and the story Mr. Schama presents of her is indeed intriguing, but I'm sure Mr. Schama himself must certainly agree that her contribution to the pageant of British history was insignificant.

Along with the failure to separate the important stories from the sidenotes, the series - to my American mind - fails to properly target the audience. The series was produced as a joint venture of the BBC and the Discovery Channel. As such, one might expect that the American audience might be considered in addition to the British. It was not. Consequently, many subjects that might be taken "as read" for those educated in British schools and living in British society will simply go over the heads of average Americans. For example, at the end of the episode covering the reign of William of Orange, a brief mention of the Battle of the Boyne is made. In his annoyingly sardonic fashion Mr. Schama tells us that points will not be awarded for telling who won, saying (rightly) that nobody did. Then as the trailing credits begin to roll, we are treated to an audio clip of the Reverend Ian Paisley spouting his usual vitriol - no doubt at one of the annual troublemaking sessions held by the loyalists at the site of this famous battle. Having lived in Britain during the height of "the troubles," and having been treated quite frequently during that time to both audio and video of Mr. Paisley's rantings, I was able to take Mr. Schama's point. Sadly though, the average American will surely be left scratching her head, wondering what the guy yelling bile into a megaphone has to do with an 18th century British ruler, and (hopefully) wondering what's missing in her education that left her unable to "get the joke."

I can't say that this series is a total loss, though. The coverage of the life and death of Thomas Becket was fascinating, as was the final episode comparing and contrasting the lives of Winston Churchill and George Orwell. The coverage of feminism during the reign of Victoria was also interesting, although Mr. Schama then failed to follow through on the lives and works of the British Sufferagettes. On these strengths, I've given the series a two-star rating, rather than the lowest.

Give this one a miss if you're looking for a well-integrated overview of British history. If you're looking for artfully entertaining vignettes that are marginally related to British history, and have $160 burning a hole in your pocket, then by all means...