<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003HARV7A">Showgirls (15th Anniversary Sinsational Edition) [Blu-ray</a>]Blu-Ray has the same content as the previously released DVD of Showgirls in the V.I.P. box set or FULLY EXPOSED edition. Same dishy drama professor queen commentary track by David Schmader of Seattle, same text in the Pop Up Trivia Track. But, the transfer is re-done in Hi Def 1080p
BluRay. The Graphics are updated for the Pop Up Trivia Track, and the disc menu is the cutest animation with important memorable lines from the timelessly awful screenplay memorialized (It's from Ver-Sayce) in the menu's animated slot machine. The transfer is state of the art, cleaned up and restored, with no trace of dirt or scratches that sometimes come with a 1994 film. From the start you can see every excruciating detail. Whether it's Nomi's earrings, details of the now gone Las Vegas hotels like the Hacienda and the Stardust. You may have to adjust your set for the over-saturated over the top color. The disc can't be faulted for great detail and clarity
in this HD transfer of the cult status film. One thing about the audio, the only full surround track is in DTS. The Dolby tracks are only in 2 channel, English, French, Spanish, or catty commentary track. So, for the full effect, make sure your surround system can decode DTS HD Master Audio. Otherwise, no discrete surround, only 2 channel mixed for Dolby Pro Logic. This is not the case in previous DVD releases which had Dolby 5.1 surround tracks.
Las Vegas has changed a lot since 1994, and you can see the lost Vegas in the exterior scenes on The Strip and outside the Stardust like you are back in the day. The transfer looks great, a must have for SHOWGIRLS fans that have a Blu-Ray and DTS Surround home theater to re-live the wonderful awfulness of this cult classic, in new found sparkling detail.

ADDENDUM - On reviewing the "Extras" I notice that they include "Pole Dancing - Finding your Inner Stripper" is
a tutorial by a former ballerina that now teaches Pole Dancing. Terry Jaworski of "S Factor", [...] her dance and exercise school.  Even though the end credits for this 12 minute featurette
have the 1995 release date for the main "Showgirls" feature, it appears that "Pole Dancing - Finding your inner Stripper" may have been produced for the 2010 release of the Blu-Ray with a 2010 date at the end. Terry spells out the specifics on all the moves in pole dancing, which in the video she calls "swing walk", "firefly", "Corkscrew", "Snake", "the Dive", "Pole Cat", "Helicopter", "Climb", "Layout", and the "Descending Angel".