I really love doing this video and actually look forward to it! The moves, since they are unique are kind of addictive and make your entire body feel worked, stretched out and graceful afterwards. I am 2 months into just using this DVD 3-4 times a week, and walking a few miles a week, eating an average healthy diet, and my body has changed dramatically. I was already petite but my legs and thighs and butt have always been on the stocky side. They are actually SHRINKING! My tightest jeans are even loose on me. I was actually EXCITED to bathing suit shop for the first time! The place I noticed change first was thighs. It feels like fat is being replaced by muscle, and looks like everything is being tightened and moved inward. The jiggles and cellulite are decreasing too! The wonders of muscle!

My arms are the same size but shapely and full of muscle rather than flab and a little muscle. They are becoming very defined, especially in the shoulder area. I also just started to do the arm sections twice every workout.
Warning about the arm section though:

I was noticing my arms- WOW! more definition, much stronger in just 3 weeks or so. But my RIGHT ARM is almost double the size of the left. TRACY DOESN'T COUNT HER REPS! It's my own fault for not counting to double check, but I assumed on an exercise DVD where reps are ALL she is doing, she would be paying attention to rep numbers. Why isn't someone off screen at least counting? What is she possibly thinking about?! It's almost as if she is just changing exercises on a whim (which is part of the fun in the dance abs section) but NOT good when trying to sculpt muscle on your arms evenly! I was wondering why for weeks I still couldn't get through the arm section where she holds one weight out straight for the entire time the other arm is doing up down rotations and it's because one arm is literally DOUBLE the first arm. There are many arm exercises where she is not just a rep or two off, but 5-6 reps, even a solid minute! No wonder! I corrected this in about 2 weeks, I went back and did the arm section twice, compensating with weights on just that one arm and arms are even now.

I am also frustrated with the non-chaptering of this DVD. She even suggests if arms get easy to go back and do it again, and since I actually do the arm sections twice it's a pain to rewind slowly through.

ABS are great. That was the first result I noticed (2 weeks in or so! and my stomach all the way down my abdomen is strong and lean.

Overall, LOVE the RESULTS! Tracy Anderson, please PLEASE PLEASE COUNT YOUR REPS for the next DVD! I love your style and the free movement you incorporate so I'd like to buy the next, but not if it's like this. :(