I'm like a lot of people in that I first discovered Nicole Kidman when I caught this gripping Australian thriller on cable.  Though I had initially low expectations for both the film and the actress, both delivered the goods and then some.  Dead Calm is that rarity amongst thrillers -- a suspenseful, scary film that actually engages the viewer and sticks in the mind after the final credits role.
The plot is admirably simple and straight forward.  Sam Niell and Nicole Kidman play a married couple mourning the death of their son (who dies in the film's first few minutes -- though you can see the development coming miles away, both the direction of Phillip Noyce and the performances of Neill and Kidman make the death into a realistic tragedy as opposed to a mere plot device).  Looking to escape their grief and save their marriage, they board their sailboat (Neill's character is a Naval officer) and take a vacation from society.  After a few days at sea, they pick up a desperate castaway (Billy Zane) who claims to be escaping from a disease-stricken pleasure cruise...
This is a film that works despite of, rather than because, of its plot.  Many of the character's actions don't make much logical sense...
In the hands of a lesser cast or director, these flaws would certainly have meant the death of any other film.  However, the talent here is all top notch.  Phillip Noyce manages to emphasize how isolated his characters are without making the film itself feel overly stagy; the viewer feels the story's claustrophobia without ever feeling cramped themselves.  The film's cast does a wonderful job of bringing their characters to life, despite the inconsitencies inherent in the plot.  All of them are familiar enough faces that the audience feels like they know them even as the fast-paced plot unfolds but none of them are such huge stars that they seem impervious to harm.  Sam Neill, of course, has made a career of playing well-meaning, upright men who have to prove themselves stronger than they might actually appear and he does an excellent job in this film.  Billy Zane has always had a rather irreverent attitude to his film work and while that has kept him from becoming a major star, it makes him perfect as the film's villian.  With his jittery nervousness, Zane manages to make the audience laugh without ever making his character seem to be less of a threat.  It is perhaps the ultimate compliment that a film psycho can be given in that the audience enjoys his time on screen and are just as happy once he's gone.  
However, the film truly belongs to Nicole Kidman.  Whether her character is being petulant and casually flirtatious or terrified and victimized or finally displaying an unexpected iron-clad will as she battles with Zane, Kidman is never less than riveting.  Her character is a difficult one and not all of her actions add up but, through Kidman's fascinating and magnetic performance, none of that matters.  After years of being overshadowed by her marriage to Tom Cruise, Nicole Kidman has only recently been acknowledged as a talented actress and radiant star in her own right.  Those of us who were lucky enough to see her in Dead Calm -- years before she became Mrs. Tom Cruise -- already knew that.