I need to address something that seems to confuse people. It seems the lack of super secret weapons, ice castles, and James Bond being more suave than gritty annoys people. Well, after 50 years of the same thing I am superiorly happy to have the reboot of the Bond series continue in this newer, grittier, more true to the books version.

I will agree that for action direction, Quantum Of Solace does fall into the one a second, jump edit, who the heck knows what's going on, school. It's annoying... very annoying. However on the smaller screen at home it's possible to follow what's happening. On the big screen at the theater... not possible. Seeing the whole frame at once just helps, a lot. After the first couple sequences (car chase and rooftop scramble), the action settles down even more and it's possible to understand what's happening.

I love this movie. The writing is so smart. A real villain, a real goal that's attainable (controlling a country by controlling it's water), and actual (God forbid) spying! Somewhere starting with Timothy Dalton I think, the concept of being a spy was only mentioned in Bond movies. In Quantum of Solace, Bond actually runs around SPYING!!! It's something that had been sorely missing for so long.

Most people have addressed the contents of the plot so I want to end discussing how brutal Bond is and the famous shot down the barrel at the end of QOS instead of at the beginning. I've read people call it "dumb" to have it at the end. Well, they are dumb. It's a brilliant move and here's why. The producers started completely over with Bond. COMPLETELY OVER. Like from the ground up. Casino Royale is an origin story. And after watching QOS, I understood that it's the conclusion of the origin story started in Casino Royale. The concept is that the Bond we all know from the past started somewhere. You're not a cold hearted s.o.b. for no reason. Kudos to the production team for taking their time. They wanted two movies to tell the origin and they took two movies. Two exciting and thrilling movies. By the time QOS ends, the Vesper story is tied off. All the people Bond cares about die around him. It's basically showing how and why he became so hardened and callous. It's a defense mechanism. And now that the origin story is complete with the end of the film, the producers stick the gun barrel shot to signify that the real fun is about to begin. It's saying "hey - you've always known Bond, the suave guy, after this point. So now that we have told you his origin, we can get on to the rest of his story, the one you're more familiar with." It's not signifying the end of QOS, it's signifying the beginning of Bond. It's a brilliant move, most likely chosen well in advance, and shows tremendous patience.

Cause really - if you're going to start over, do it right. And I think these past two movies combine to really do it right. Let's face it, be honest, Bond had totally lost his way. Die Another Day is fun, but really silly. Para-sailing in front of a glacier melted by a death ray? Come on. And if we are being really, truly honest, most Bond films do not stand the test of time and are not that great. Quantum of Solace continues the trend of substance over style. Where style is defined by quality, not gadgets and stupid one liners.

Hooray for Quantum of Solace. Flawed, yes. The action is poorly edited and the exploding hotel at the end is, well, an exploding hotel. But overall, smart concepts, smart dialog, grounded and believable acting (tell me you didn't think Greene was really creepy even if nerdy), and a story that fits within the realm of possibility.

I'll be there for the next one for sure.