It's generally agreed by people that do this sort of stuff that when you are on something illegal (that's not really derogatory, I'm for legalization, but that's aside the point) even a fish tank can offer hours of enjoyment. Why then do you need some special film made for your state of mind. When a person, like myself, who does not take acid or anything else, sees this movie it's impossible to appreciate it. It begins nowhere, does nothing, and ends nowhere. If you would like to get a taste of what it's all about close your eyes. When you you see that light show just go with it and eventually you will be seeing things that half make sense. For example, you see Dan Rathers' face on a television screen, then only his face which is now on a body, which is sitting in a boat and fishing in a green river. look back up his face is no longer on his body, in its place is a light bolb. There you go. That's basically what this movie is like. It is a disconnected stream of consciousness.

  Now, some are willing to call this movie a 'classic.' This is  generally because of one of two reasons. 1. They watched it as children when they were just learning how the world was structured, and, therefore, unable to discriminate based on reality, became attached, and have been nostalgic ever since. 2. They watched it while on drugs, liked the effect, remembered it, and judged it based on the effect. Just because it's old doesn't make it a classic. Classic actually comes from the word 'class', and, though I don't want to sound snooty, children and acid-heads can't lead us too well in this regard. Your intelligent, aren't you? Other people's sentiments aren't your method of determining quality. Therefore, go take acid, or forget this movie.

  PS. I don't advise the former. You can't piss or sweat LSD out, so it stays in you either wreaking havoc or stored in fat until it's all used up. It'll stay in you until it's finished killing brain cells. Would you rather be fat or crazy all your life.