A film that makes you go 'Hmmmm'.

I first saw Chariots of the Gods in a theater as a kid when it was re-released back in the mid Seventies.  I remember having trouble going to sleep that night!  Since then I have attained a degree in science, and still think that it has much merit.

Sadly, this is a film that few people seem to be able to see anymore, at least I haven't noticed it making the rounds on mainstream television or cable in the last twenty five years or so.

The transfer was excellent and made from a well-preserved print.  I noticed few flaws in this thirty-five or so year old film.  There is an extra of pictures, but there are only like eight pictures?  Why bother?  That part was like a carnival sideshow ripoff.  Also, the bio on von Daniken is a short text of one page and was not informative at all.  There are scene selections and true to their word a movie trailer.

The film is an interesting whirlwind of exotic location shots that if nothing else shows the viewer some very interesting sites.  The musical score is hard to describe-in a sense it is eerie, but it also has an overall upbeat, 'hopeful' or optimistic tone.  I get the impression that this film was not made originally in English?  I do like the narrator's (male) voice and keeps your attention.  There are also a few places where the narration is handled in an interesting manner.  Also, the actual filming and editing was excellent and well thought out.  It's as if there is a new surprise awaiting you around every corner.

The documentary also includes some support from a couple of other individuals, one of whom was a Soviet scientist and I found this to be rather interesting given the times.  But I feel that von Daniken's arguments supported by the visual evidence were more than compelling on their own.

I can't help but to compare this film to a Nova episode that dealt specifically with von Daniken's book and thus many of the things in this film.  A few things, at least in the book, were shown to be out and out fabrications.  I seem to remember Nova trying to provide an alternative explanation for such things as (don't quote me...been many years) the 'Baghdad Batteries'.  Since then I have seen these batteries presented as being exactly as what they appear to be by science-ancient batteries.

In fact, it seemed that the makers of the Nova film were in an Okham's Razor competition with von Daniken in trying to provide rational, simple explanations for rather exceptional ancient works of art, stories and artifacts.  I think it was mostly a tie.  'We' still don't know how or why the Pyramids, nor Stonehenge, the Nazca Lines nor many many other things were built in ancient times.  Shame on von Daniken for not giving our ancient ancestors very much credit for coming up with these technologies themselves, but the same can be said for mainstream science which seems to be more and more in the position that ancient peoples were more advanced than we thought and much earlier in time than previously thought.

However, traces of nicotine in Egyptian mummies and a bronze (brass?) computer from an ancient shipwreck does not jive with what mainstream social and natural scientists traditionally present as 'fact' (dangerous word there at any rate).  My point is that mainstream science has had to (as science is supposed to) back down and rewrite its theories as new data and explanations come to light.  So mainstream science does not have an absolute corner on the truth market and what was poo-pooed in the past as nonsense and fantasy has many times gained acceptance (the existence of ball lightning comes to mind).

It would have made a very interesting DVD package if they had included the Nova episode for a few bucks more as this episode is largely forgotten and is collecting dust somewhere.

von Daniken did not say that every single headdress or ceremonial garb were based on ancient astronaut space suits, but what he does present are artworks of things that still look like space suits and advanced controls no matter how much these things are relegated to the mystical fantasies of ancient artists by mainstream scientists.  Interestingly, it is only in the context of modern technology and science as he points out that many of von Daniken's suppositions even begin to make sense! For instance, why does an ancient Mayan observatory look like a modern observatory?  What is the purpose of that if they indeed had no telescopes?

All in all, I think von Daniken's explanations are at least as good as any offered by conservative science.  A powerful, imaginative presentation that actually enriches one's view of our ancient ancestors and does not denigrate their capabilities at all.  These hypotheses actually add a new dimension of wonder and excitement to our collective past.

I definitely plan to watch this over and over again.  It is a superior documentary in that it is not inundated with talking head PhD s or self-styled experts and allows the viewer's mind/imagination to decide the validity of what he is seeing with only suggestions on the part of the writer.

It is refreshing to see a film that still makes you go 'hmmmm' even after all these years.