"Northanger Abbey" has never been a favorite with me; Catherine is too naive to suit my tastes.  Still, I wanted to see what would happen with this one, and Andrew Davies shows again why he's a master.

Catherine here is displayed in all her glory.  Her naviete is evident, but she demonstrates some very great character qualities; her eagerness to think well of people is very sweet, and her loyalty to her brother is beautiful.  Felicity Jones shows very clearly but very properly Catherine's unhappiness and suspicion (even in Catherine Morland!) of Isabella Thorpe's flirtation with Frederick Tilney.  Her sadness and regret when she discovers how easily she's been swayed by her Gothic novel reading is palpable.  The writing is fantastic and Jones carries off the character brilliantly with all the wide-eyed innocence necessary for the role.

JJ Feild's Henry Tilney is fantastic.  He's everything that he should be: smart, gentle, upright, friendly, and patient with Catherine.  Tilney's the sort of guy people would have a drink with *and* entrust their children to, and Davies and Feild capture that.  Sorry, Peter Firth, Feild's got you beat on every single count here.

I have to mention Carey Mulligan's Isabella Thorpe.  Mulligan plays all that sweet-faced innocence while being a money-grubbing jerk underneath; she's fantastic.  When she gets her comeuppance at Frederick Tilney's hands, it's hard to be sympathetic.  Still, Davies puts in that moment when Frederick Tilney outmaneuvers Isabella and she gets her comeuppance - excellent addition - and Mulligan carries it off brilliantly.  That momentary pathos Mulligan infuses into Isabella really manages to drive home Elinor's warning to Catherine that Isabella will be hurt.

Eleanor is lovely - a wonderful, female version of her brother Henry, with all the spirit and gentleness he has.  (They're my favorite brother-sister pair in all of Austen.)  Frederick Tilney is wonderfully rakish.  The Allens are very cute.

There are flashes of Davies in the script.  He sort of does the over the top sometimes, and the visualizations of Catherine's Gothic imaginings fit that over-the-top bill.  Still, Davies is a master at catching Austen's humor, and the joke's on Catherine - which he manages to capture with brilliance.

Beating the 1986 Maggie Wadey-written "Northanger Abbey" isn't a huge feat (sorry, Ms. Wadey), but this version does more than that.  As of right now it's set a pretty high mark to beat.