Well done documentary/big production movie that exposes how far colossal corporations are willing to go to destroy competition and establish monopolies using the strong arm of the government to do their bidding under the guise of consumer protections. This movie is the perfect example of what Adam Smith (Author of: The Wealth Of Nations, 1776) warned his readers of: when companies become too big they inevitably dominate public policies for their own self interest while disregarding the cost to technological and productive progress.

The movie tells the story of determined dreamer and self made entrepreneur, Preston Tucker. After world war II Tucker conceptualized a futuristic car built for safety, class, and longevity. He envisioned a car with all-wheel disc brakes for better stopping power, fuel injection for more horse power and better fuel efficiency, as well as: seat belts, safety glass, and a roll bar for passenger protection. He wanted to revolutionize the auto industry and put the focus back squarely on the consumer while driving technology forward. He thought outside the box and tested tradition with novel ideas: engine in the rear, independent spring-less suspension, and a third headlight that follows the steering wheel. Almost all these innovations are common (if not standard) features found on vehicles today.

The film shows how Tucker basically made the Big Three look like fools by practically utilizing ordinary and present day technology, circa 1946, to build an extraordinary and superior automobile. In all actuality, all Preston did was efficiently use what was already commercially available and built a car that was as strong and as safe as any could and should be. All concepts that the Big Three either failed to notice or intentionally ignored.

Some people still question whether or not Mr.Tucker was really going to build the car. Well, if raising $17 million in capital to secure leasing the largest production facility ever created, rescuing the engine supplier from certain bankruptcy with his own finances, and hiring over 1900 employees to engineer, assemble, and deliver his product still leaves you wondering if this Preston Tucker was a crook bent on bamboozling the public for a quick buck, maybe you should re-evaluate your own motives in life. With a little research and mental capacity, anyone can figure out this guy had a dream he wanted to make a reality and his only intention was to profit off his idea while offering the consumer something of quality and benefit.

In conclusion I highly recommend this movie to any dreamer, businessman, historian, independent spirit, or free thinking individual. I can't imagine why anyone would regret watching this film. The acting, directing, production, and cinematography are top notch.