If you're a fan of Joyce Carol Oates' short story, "Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been?", on which this film was based, prepare to be utterly mystified as to how the filmmakers ended this.  I guess the studio committee decided that it needed a happy ending, even if that meant diverging 180 degrees from the author's intent. With virtually none of the menacing attributes of the story's villain, Arnold Friend,  Treat Williams just comes off as a goofy letch. The Ellie character is utterly superfluous, to the point that they forgot to include him in the anticlimactic ending altogether. Last time we see him, he's in Connie's room looking at her Led Zeppelin records.  Focusing on the melodramatic relationship between Connie (Dern) and her mother (Place) rather than the sensual attraction/repulsion Connie has with Friend, the film reduces the psychological drama of the short story to a sappy morality play.  The director chose to set this in the 80s (replete with a saccharin soundtrack that vacillates between James Taylor ditties, piano-tines noodling, and vacuous imitation hair metal and new-wave) rather than the 50s, which renders much of the text's conflict utterly moot. Yes, Connie is flirting with disaster in both versions, but in the short story she's breaking the taboos of  1950s repression; in the 80s she's just another Cyndi Lauper dress-alike who seems to get what she deserves.  But then she doesn't. What on earth is the point here?  The mall scene will just make you groan, and Levon Helm, cast as her father, appears to be auditioning for the lead in "Forrest Gump," so wooden is his delivery. The short story is a nuanced, suspenseful tale, rife with cryptic Biblical references and steeped in the tradition of rock and roll radio and its attendant "evils," two motifs that are completely ignored here. Arnold Friend, who is eventually revealed to be the Devil in the short story, is portrayed here as a cross between Dazed and Confused's Wooderson and Happy Days' The Fonz.  It ain't pretty, and it's not scary. It's really not even interesting.