As a Shakespeare fan, I was elated to read that Julie Taymor was planning a film version of THE TEMPEST. If she could turn a minor work like TITUS ANDRONICUS into a thrilling film, imagine what she could do with Shakespeare's last truly great play! The movie opened in December 2010 -- and then disappeared. No further distribution. Released on DVD late and without fanfare. Even an episode of "Law & Order: Criminal Intent" based on Taymor's troubles with the Spiderman musical, which referred to her last film as a flop. Not good signs . . .
While Taymor's version has its flaws, it is still worth watching. First and foremost, for the Prospera of Helen Mirren, who gives a performance of power, range and nuance. A close second is Ben Wishaw's creation of Ariel, enhanced by Taymor's creative use of special effects. The part of Miranda might have been written for newcomer Felicity Jones. And, in a brilliant touch, the play's epilogue is rendered hauntingly in song, played behind the end credits. Finally, as one has come to expect of Taymor's films, all of the visual elements -- costumes, settings, photography -- reflect a carefully integrated realization of the play's themes.
One of my tests of a filmed version of a play is: are there moments I passed over in reading that come alive in viewing? Two examples come to mind from this video: the old counselor Gonzalo (Tim Conti) is played for comedy -- a sententious windbag like Polonius; and the temptation scene between Antonio (Chris Cooper) and Sebastian (Alan Cumming,) which has a wonderfully sinister feel to it.
There are some mis-steps as well. Russell Brand is a marvelous performer; but he cannot, in even the remotest sense, be said to act. Miranda is a sparkling creature; but her Ferdinand (Reeve Carney) is bland both in presence and line delivery. The conclusion of the comic subplot belongs in a cartoon.
This version is, as a previous reviewer noted, better than previous attempts but ultimately unsatisfying -- I think due to problems with pacing and proportion. Propera's scenes seem rushed, while Miranda's are lingered over. Ariel and Caliban need to be seen as forces of equal strength, but the CGI emphasis on Ariel renders him a minor character.
For a fully realized production of THE TEMPEST, I recommend the CBC's DVD of the 2010 Stratford Shakespeare Festival production with Christopher Plummer. It is no slight to Ms. Mirren's considerable talents to say that this is a part Plummer was born to play.