"The Lake House" is one of those romantic movies that require such a suspension of disbelief that it might as well be catalogued in the fantasy, sci fi or superhero collections of your local video store.  This is due to the central fact that, since all romances require an apparently insurmountable obstacle for the lovers to overcome, Lake House complies by having the lovers, Keanu Reeves and a never lovelier Sandra Bullock, separated in time and space by two years.

Taking a page out of Steven King's playbook, whereby odd things are never explained ...they just ARE...a mailbox becomes the lovers' unusual conduit to one another as they send missives across time and experience the odd sensation of standing in the EXACT same spot in the three physical dimensions, but two years apart in the all-important fourth.  Their task is to somehow make their love last until they can figure out a way to get not only in the same time and place physically, but emotionally as well.  It is to the two stars' credit that they are, each in his or her own way, engaging enough that the viewer stops asking "How is this happening?" and instead gets caught up in the quest for a resolution.

The rest of the film is standard boy-meets-girl fare with no surprises.  Christopher Plummer, lately experiencing something of a career renaissance, gives an outstanding but pointless performance as Reeves' estranged father, in a subplot that adds little to the film and actually distracts from the main story, and the "crisis" at the end is unfortunately telegraphed 2/3 of the way through the film, so that when it actually transpires it comes across as a cheesy and unnecessary tug at the audience's heartstrings.

Other than that, this is a real feel-good movie.  No important themes are explored, no great issues are resolved, and no insightful messages linger with the audience as the credits roll.  Nonetheless, this is a movie worth seeing.  Yes, the film's central plot device calls for a major league suspension of disbelief...but then so does the notion of true love itself.  Personally, I prefer to believe in both.