what a cracker jack of a film TRUE ROMANCE is. its directed by tony scott but the script is clearly quentin tarantino. i understand that it is part of a trilogy that includes RESORVOIR DOGS and PULP FICTION. it was "fiction" that got the raves the other 2 films were for some reason not anywhere as popular especially this one that i think is better than the others. christian slater plays a down and out drifter who beleives he meetes the ghost of elvis presley who guides him and gives him advise. he meets him in the bathroom when hes alone. hes a fan of kung fu movies and while sitting in a movie theatre one night he meets patricia arquette . they get together and she later admits he was set up by his boss. shes really a call girl sent there as a birthday gift for him. the couple however do fall deep in love and they marry. he wants to go to see her ex pimp ( an incredible acting performance by gary oldman who thinks hes black) who treated her badly and tell him  shes not coming back. it gets nasty. he returns with what he beleives is her suitcase of clothes but when he gets back he discovers he has a full suitcase of uncut cocaine worth millions. the mob who controlled the pimp and the gang he belongs too goes after them. the couple hight tail it to L.A. thinking theyre clear. what follows is one hell of an action packed sometimes funny , sometimes bloody but never boring incredibly acted, superbly directed from one of the best scripts ever written film youll ever want to see. what film can boast DENNIS HOPPER,CHRISTIAN SLATER,GARY OLDMAN,VAL KILMER ,CHRISTOPHER WALKEN, BRAD PITT,SAMUEL JACKSON,JAMES GANDOLFINI and BRONSON PINCHOT? the scene where dennis hopper tells christopher walken ( a scicilian mafia king) that sicilians are really niggers" is unforgettable and laugh out loud funny. the scene between patricia arquette and james gandolfini ( who since had become famous for the sopranos) will have you cringing and squirming. eventually the movie rolls to a crackling climax with a sting operation where everything breaks loose. sometimes hilarious ,often bloody part allegory ( does slater really see elvis?) every inch of this wonderfull film is a joy to watch. wonder what else tom scott has done?