Long have I loved The Dark Crystal, and when I got the DVD as a gift (my first DVD!), frankly, I was apprehensive. I hadn't seen the movie in years, until this past summer, when I rented the videotape and was appalled by the quality: the murky picture, the incomprehensible composition of many scenes, and the slow pacing. Would the DVD simply present digitally-clear proof of all these complaints?

Nope! This is a feast for the eyes, a creative masterpiece.

Okay, first off, I'll say that the pacing *is* slow, and that's the biggest flaw in this film. My only other issue, brought to light by the sharp DVD picture, is that the hero puppets, the Gelflings, are relatively unexpressive -- their facial features change very little. Perhaps that was the limited state of the art for a humanlike puppet in the early 1980s. It's ironic, because every other creature in this fantasy world (excepting the beasts of burden: Landstriders, Garthim) is delightfully expressive, from the simple Pod People to the wonderful conniving Skeksis Chamberlain. But then, I've read the same about Star Wars, even: Heroes tend to be plain and undetailed because we are meant to project our own traits upon them. Still, I'd have appreciated even a basic facial expression, a simple smile or frown, but the Gelflings don't have it.

But don't get me wrong: Those are minor complaints. I love this movie. I almost gave up on it after the atrocious VHS rental experience, but the DVD restored my faith and then some. If the pacing is slow, it is a boon in disguise, because it allows you more time to absorb the visual detail. And The Dark Crystal is loaded with detail; this is a complete fantasy world, inspired by Brian Froud (of the book "Fairies") and constructed by Jim Henson's shop. The widescreen frame is necessary (it's the only aspect ratio included) -- after seeing this DVD, I can't imagine watching the movie in TV pan 'n' scan format. Every shot is a dreamlike panorama. And the color is truly vibrant.

The sound, as well, is excellent, and the isolated music soundtrack option provides for an even more mysterious and compelling experience. The bonus material is sometimes weak (e.g., overdesigned character-photo screens with terse descriptions), but the saving grace is the documentary piece. It's an extensive look at the conception and making of the movie, and it features the most footage of Jim Henson I've ever seen in one place. The Dark Crystal was in many ways the crown jewel of Henson's achievements, and it's fitting that he gets the chance to talk so much about it. Plenty of interviews with other production people, too, including Frank Oz. (At one point, Henson and Oz are seen discussing a storyboard, and if you close your eyes, it's eerie -- you could swear it's Ernie and Bert.) Truly a treat for Henson fans. For the many who waited decades for a definitive collector's release of The Dark Crystal, it's a dream come true.

Note: I wouldn't recommend this film for young children. I'd say it's best for later grade-schoolers, especially fantasy-oriented ones (I can imagine a revival among the Harry Potter crowd). But don't assume that because it's from Henson it's another Sesame Street preschooler romp: The Dark Crystal has some frightening scenes, elements of macabre horror, and even murder. I'm saving this one until my kids are older -- and then, boy, am I going to love watching it with them.