Tombstone is an excellent western that spares no expense in terms of its starring cast.
The movie begins with the three Earp brothers--Wyatt, played by Kurt Russell; Virgil, played by Sam Elliot; and Morgan, played by Bill Paxton--journeying to a small mining town called Tombstone to, in Wyatt's words, "make our fortune."  As an aside, I just want to say that Russell bears an uncanny resemblance to the real Wyatt Earp.  If you don't believe me, then do a web search and check it out for yourself.
After crossing paths with a thuggish band of criminals known as "The Cowboys," Virgil decides to become town marshall, with Morgan as his deputy--much to the consternation of Wyatt.  As a showdown with The Cowboys looms, Wyatt eventually throws in with them for the legendary Gunfight at the OK Corral.
Without a doubt, my favorite character was the doomed Doc Holliday, played flawlessly by Val Kilmer.  Kilmer may have a reputation of being difficult to work with, but he nails the Holliday character and was deserving of an Oscar nomination (which he didn't receive).  His smugness, wrapped in a Georgia accent, is truly a joy to behold.  He has so many wonderful lines and scenes that they are too numerous to list here.  As was historically accurate, Holliday also throws in with the Earps for the OK Corral shootout.
The movie goes on to detail the events after the OK Corral confrontation--including the murder of Morgan and the maiming of Virgil, and Wyatt's subsequent revenge against The Cowboys.  Minor plotlines include Wyatt's interest in a stage performer, played by Dana Delaney; and Wyatt's wife's addiction to opium.  
The all-star cast includes Michael Biehn as the sadistic Johnny Ringo--a mirror image of Doc Holliday; Powers Boothe, as Curly Bill Brocious, the self-annointed "founder of the feast" known as The Cowboys; Billy Bob Thornton, as the bullying Johnny Tyler; and Charleton Heston, in a cameo as Henry Hooker.
While the film may not be as historically accurate as some accounts, it certainly is enjoyable.