I cannot understand for the life of me, why on earth this garbage can of a film was bothered with. And they thought they could make some money SIMPLY because the name "JAWS" is in the title! The men and women who wrote this slop must have gotten drunk on bottles of 'apricot brandy' before starting on the script.

Some time before the film, the Brody family lost dad and husband Martin to a heart attack, but they still live in Amity. Now it's just son Sean and Mom, Ellen Brody; older son Michael is in the Bahamas. It's near Christmas, and Sean is now part of the Amity Police. After hanging out with his mom, he heads out for a night harbour patrol to check up on some floating debris, and as he inspects one piece of wood in the water, (oh, surprise, surprise) a meaty great white shark comes along to chow down on Sean. Within moments, he becomes the film's first victim....and to our surprise, a Brody family member actually gets the full chomp and gulp treatment. Oh well, you lived through the other three films kid. See ya.

Mrs. Brody goes into shock, and older son Mike arrives in Amity with his little family. After the funeral, she decides to go back to the Bahamas with them. Well, wouldn't you know it? The shark follows them all the way there. I thought only dogs follow people. Did the shark happen to ask a travel agent where the Brody's were going? What's really stupid is that the shark arrives in Bahama waters in, oh, I'd say record time for a rocket powered speed boat.

This film's first half hour already has a lot going against it. "Jaws The Revenge" as a title sounds more like a mafia movie. A shark seeking revenge? Why not simply "Jaws 4", or for a chuckle, "Jaws The Bahama Beast"? The acting is much like an afternoon soap opera, complete with overdramatic scenes, and awful lines. I hate to admit it, but the opening credits with the sharks point of view swimming through the water near piers and boats at night are really neat, and this movie doesn't deserve that sequence.

Mike is played by Lance Guest (The Last Starfighter), and the once well acted Lorraine Gary is Ellen Brody. Michael Caine is perhaps the biggest shock in this film (is he crazy?!) as he plays island pilot Hoagie who starts to fall in love with his movie paycheque-I MEAN MRS. BRODY!

Although Ellen Brody has bad dreams of becoming attacked by a great white, the family cheer her up with all the island fun. But as the shark makes it's appearance, it takes a victim who rides a banana boat-weenie ride that Mike's little girl is on as well (I guess it took the rubber raft for a real banana). Mike's daughter just missed the bite, but that close call gets Mike and his Mom mad.

This time around, 'Bruce' (the mechanical shark's nickname) looks so beat up and old, that you'll laugh at least a few times when you see it's rubber skin peeling off, and hear it's gears grinding. Guess he's been (a) rusting on some Universal lot for a few years, and (b) wasn't patched up from his burning in Jaws 2 (remember that?)

What happens in the end? No matter how horrible this movie is, I won't spoil the HILARIOUS ending, but I will say the climax reveals roaring sounds from the shark's mouth (the funniest moment of them all) and Michael Caine, along with Mario Van Peebles and Lance Guest, takes his plane and makes a ludicrous crash landing on the water next to Mrs. Brody's yacht, who's in hot pursuit of the big fish. You know she wants the credit of killing the shark herself. "REVENGE!"

What would have made this movie even more hilarious, is if the shark 'constantly' tried to attack the Brody's in the water, and ended up eating nearby swimming lifeguards or divers by the numbers instead. At least there would be a lot of funny close calls....and the shark would be fed quite well.

There's nothing you can do now, except pretend that the third and this fourth awful Jaws film never happened. The first was a classic, and the second wasn't bad. "Jaws The Revenge" is such trash, and yet I'm one of those people who, if by chance has absolutely nothing to do one night, and is in need of a big laugh, will watch this...and only for that reason. Since the kill ratio is really pitiful, how about one last title suggestion..."Jaws: Underfed".