I've been encouraged by Pat Metheny's music since 1980... that's a long time to follow one guy's music track, but through it all he has always grown and done more than you would expect. His trio record set the standard in the early days, with Bright Size Life (w. Jaco and Bob Moses), and his PMG work has been unusual and different and refreshing. One reviewer mentions "cheesy tunes" - in what sense? In the sense that they don't conform to a rigid set of jazz sounds that we've come to expect (swing+sax+trumpet+upright bass + x y and z=jazz)? Great jazz musicians are innovators, and what PMG has done consistently through its life and continues to do is to create it's own genre of music unto itself - completely unique. Are you going to find 14 other groups sounding like this? No way. Not even one. I know cheesy music when I hear it, and there are plenty of so-called mainstream jazz artists that are guilty of it in addition to the usual suspects. Most jazz musicians will be remembered as that guy or gal that sounded kind of like Miles or kind of like Coltrane or Brecker or whatever. The great ones are the ones others are compared TO, and Pat Metheny falls in that category.

If you are open-minded to creative music and want to enjoy great musicians at the top of their game, creating art together as a team listening well and bringing fresh new ideas to life, then buy or rent this DVD. If you want to hear what one kid from Missouri who was by age 15 determined to play with Gary Burton (and he did) was able to do with the guitar by just doggedly pursuing it year after year, creating fresh new material, taking the beauty of the guitar to new levels each and every year, then listen to this DVD and be a part of his history. Because Pat is one of the true geniuses of our age. His relationship with Lyle Mays persists to this day - what a story of loyalty working together though a lifetime.

And Pat is able to draw more talent out of his musicians than most bandleaders. A lot of jazz artists have used Richard Bona over the years as a talented fretless bass player, but Pat Metheny gave him a stage to share the whole range of his talent. He does a solo with himself and some percussion and a delay pedal that is amazing - he harmonizes with himself and creates a tapestry of sound... Cuong Vu did something similar on this DVD with his trumpet.

The drummer and bass player (Antonio Sanchez and Steve Rodby)are just on it - this is a great band. If you get a chance to hear their Austin City Limits performance, I think it is slightly better in the sense of how raw it is; this performance is more polished, and of course a lot more time was taken in the mastering of this. Both live performances are worth checking out.