Universal Studios has provided a real treat for fans of the old B horror movies.  This collection will give you hours of entertainment pleasure.  Bela Lugosi's Dracula is as captivating now as it was back in 1931, and Lugosi's iconic performance has set the standard for every personification of vampires since its release.  Phillip Glass's new score is interesting, but I found it a bit distracting.  View it both ways and see which version you like for yourself.

Gloria Holden was positively chilling as Dracula's Daughter, a delightfully wicked movie that picks up where the first Dracula film left off.

Son of Dracula with Lon Chaney Jr. moved the action to America's Deep South, among the bayous and the voodoo practitioners.  Dracula's son isn't quite as smart as his father was, and falls head-first into a plot for his own destruction; surprising, since vampires are supposed to be able to sniff out their enemy's plans...  But still an enjoyable ride.

And, of course, we have to have one fun-filled ride with ALL the monsters in one flick!  House of Dracula unites Dracula, the Wolfman, and Frankenstein under the roof of a kindly scientist-turned-madman.  Great fun!

The Spanish version of Dracula, while interesting - historically-speaking, seemed melodramatic and over-done.  But the extra footage with interviews and behind-the-scenes info was interesting.

As much as I have enjoyed these classic movies (many, many times!), I enjoy the extra features even more.  Stephen Sommers tells us how these old movies have inspired his own work, and the cast of Van Helsing joins him to share their perspectives of these timeless characters.  You'll also hear from Bela Lugosi's son, as well as his best friend.  Their memories of this great actor prove fascinating and well worth the price of the set.  In addition, you'll get interviews with several film historians that lend new insight into the characters we've shivered to for close to a century!

I've read several reviews about damaged DVDs, but I have been lucky -- both discs were perfect.  If you should happen to get a damaged set, keep trying.  This collection is well-worth the effort!