Being that I'm only 37-years old, I am in the minority that did not bear witness to the show when it originally aired in '59 up to '66, but I'm glad some 50-years later I discovered this gem of celluloid history.

As Clint Eastwood if my favorite living actor I was naturally drawn to this because, frankly, I'd never seen any of the episodes. It's bad enough modern television can't hold a candle to the old days, but to play the same insipid shows in never-ending loops as stations are wont to do is criminal. I believe the Halmark channel or ME-TV shows the occasional Rawhide but this set is a wonderful addition to the home library. I have never had more than a passing interesting westerns, be in television or big-feature films, but Rawhide is a moment in time gloriously contained on a terrific DVD set. All pains have been taken to retain the original feel while modernizing ever-slightly in the mastering process. I'm also introduced to the great Eric Fleming, Sheb Wooley, Paul Brinegar, as well as a myriad of other cast members that are fun and a part of my psyche now and forever.

I was never a "Bonanza guy" or anything close, but Rawhide just has the feel of real trials and tribulations not saturated in mediocrity or "same-old-same-old" rhetoric. Mr. Fliming as Gilbert Favor, the trail boss, was nothing short of superb and Eastwood as ramrod Rowdy Yates is just drenched with great characterization, talent and honing of skills for future endeavors (anyone not spotting the "Harry Calahan" grimace ten years beforehand in some episodes is missing something amazing). The overall surrounding/supporting cast is so natural and tight that it truly integrates you as one of the drovers; You care about the characters and the plots as if they were your own, the true mark of great television.

I cannot recommend this set any higher than my peers before me have, but thanks for allowing me to spout off, so to speak. I'm so sorry I missed the original run but I forever have it in my personal library and implore all of you to check out what the old west was like for the men who fed our families.