Quadrophenia is not so much an account of mod (or modernisim as it was originally known). It is much more of a conceptual piece centering itself around the experiences of Jimmy cooper, a multi faceted personality, with the mod aspects giving a base to his predicaments. It was a story developed by Pete Townshend in the 70's with the 60's mod movement in mind. This is further developed by the use of director Franc Roddam's use of a contempory setting.
Some people have criticised the film for not being firmly rooted in the 60's, but I think the crossover works well, allowing the mix to sit in with the overall themes of the film. By using this approach the film can also unite people form different generations. I think this is important. And now to the film.
Quadrophenia opens where it closes, above the clifftops of brighton. From here we are transported back to sheppards bush where we are introduced to Jimmy as a character. We see his surface side as he enters the goldhawk club, well dressed and self assured. A Mod. As the film continues though we see him repond differently to various situations, be it his home life, at work, with his friends or when chasing his dreamgirl Steph ( played by Leslie Ash.). He is basically dissatisfied and in search of what's elusive. It is during the second half of the film we see this becoming more obvious. Set in Brighton on a bank holiday weekend Jimmy and his friends join together with an army of mods, for a weekend of dressing, dancing, pills and punchups. It is when Jimmy gets evicted from the dance for jumping of a balcony he begins to drift away from the numbers.
For me this is where Quadrophenia begins to take on its poetic quality. Jimmy wanders the beach at night until dawn by which point the dancing has ended and the majority of mods are re-congregating at the beach front cafe for a quick egg sandwich and the days itinerary. It is here Jimmy reconnects and the day unfolds.
Heading for Brighton peer, with Jimmy in centrefield, the mods unite with their chants of glory not only atracting media glare but also the attention of their stylistic opposites, the rockers. A huge battle erupts and the beach is invaded by mods and rockers at war with each other with not even the sea being able to separate them. It is Jimmy's role in all of this that is the most significant. Having joined up with Steph, he becomes euphoric, reinacting the violence for her. " I was there". For Jimmy it in this moment that everything becomes crystalised. He is a mod, he is part of the action and now Steph is by his side.
This is further enhanced by the film's most famous scene when Jimmy and Steph enter an alleyway and have sex together.
It is when leaving the alleyway that Jimmy gets nabbed by the police and things start to go wrong. It is only when the Ace Face ( played by Sting) gets locked in the same van that things seem a little brighter. This does not last.
Upon returning home from court, Jimmy is confronted in a series of incidents that will lead to his undoing. Firstly by his mother who spots his picture in the paper, then by his pompous boss who tells him how grateful he should be for being allowed to peform menial tasks, and finnaly by Steph who has now deserted him for His so called best mate Dave (as played by Mark Wingett)All of this ending in personal destruction.
With no place to call home and no one to be with,  Jimmy Returns to Brighton where for that short period everthing was golden.
The film now becomes truly poetic, by replacing dialogue for images, of beatiful wind swept Brighton beach, upon which Jimmy treks and wonders where it all went wrong. It is in these final scenes he makes his fatal discovery that will allow him to make his ultimate decision.
Quadrophenia is a doccument of a time and place that for the most part no longer exists. The film plays an important role in allowing us to visit that place. In saying this I think the real relevance of the film lies in its exploration of youthful themes. Jimmy cooper is a complex character but he is no more comples than any person in search of a real identity or an ideal place. It is for this reason I think it Quadrophenia will be relevant to future generations, to Identify with and to enjoy. Afterall it is a wonderfully youthful cinematic composition.
  EXTRAS
UPPERS; There are quite a few interesting things contained on this special edition of Quadrophenia.
The US trailer is good ( except for the dialogue)
An interwiew with Sting is also interesting ( Pity it wasn't Phil Daniels though)
The directors commentary and archival photo's were of real interest to me. Nice one.
Also the trip form London to Brighton was great fun as was the 'Are you a mod or a rocker quiz"
Finally the Restoration which on the whole was good though a little visually dark in certain places.
DOWNERS: This is a big disappointment. Has anyone even noticed there are 4 sucessive scenes missing from the US print. Wake up.
The scenes in question take place from where Jimmy exits the cafe after talking to Kev through to the start of the party at Kitchener road. Consult your English or Australian standard edition, they are all present. I would assume this had something to do with the original US cinema print but for me this is the major upset for after all, 'I am one of the faces'. 
Reviewed by Michael Gillis.