Let me just say that DARKMAN is a B film.  It does not attempt to be an A-list film.  At the time, it had B-list actors, writers, and a director.  However, it is a terrific jumping off point for all the cast and crews careeers.
DARKMAN is a very intriguing story about a scientist whose life is ruined after his girlfriend's work accidentally gets him in trouble.  The beginning plot is set up very well, yet it seems to deteriorate as the movie progresses.  The script and story are good, however the movie sometimes seems to repeat itself, even though it is sometimes brilliant to see it unfolding in a couple of clever twists.
Saw Raimi has always been a very enigmatic director.  His shots are complex and intense, as seen in the EVIL DEAD series.  He uses them to his advantage in DARKMAN.  Every camera angle works well and everything cohedes perfectly.  Sam Raimi shows his growth from the EVIL DEAD films, and it is incredibly apparent in this movie.
The acting by the main actors is top notch.  Liam Neeson shows why he is now a big actor.  He gives depth, humor, and drama all at once.  Frances McDormand has always been good and it is a treat to see her in ths movie.  She gives the exact amount of compassion that is needed in such a high octane thriller as this.  The supporting cast of the two main bad guys is very good as well.  Larry Drake is menacing in his role, as it the actor that I cannot remember in the "big boss" roll.  He is slick and charming and oozes carisma all over the screen.  The minor actors, however, have a couple of flaws, but they are easily overlooked when surrounded by the performances of the main actors.
The pacing of hte film is incredible.  The movie rarely slows down and is full of great special effects.  Even though a bit of the early blue screen work is quite apparent, it does not detract from the look of the film.  It's still exciting action that is thrown in front of you, and that is exactly why it works.
DARKMAN is a very entertaining action thriller with great direction and performances.  It has a very smart revenge storyline and such brilliant pacing that the movies hour and forty-five minute running time flies by.  This movie should not be overlooked, as it is a terrific jumping place for the careers of many important actors and filmmakers.  I cannot recommend this movie any more than I have.