Ink is a very strange movie that is enjoyable just for that fact.  It centers around a little girl (Emma) who is stolen from her bed (whilst sleeping) and left comatose despite the best efforts of protectors - Story Tellers - who spend the nights keeping sleepers safe.

Her father (John) is at once uncomfortable with his role as a parent and attempting very hard to be there for his daughter.  It is almost painful to watch the way he interacts with his daughter, coworkers, and himself.  The way that he handles his life is perhaps so painful because it shows the darker natures of our own being.  He is not a terrible man, nor is he a good man, and his progression throughout the film is inspiring.  Even the way he copes with his pain is difficult and hard to comprehend.

Our young heroine / captive is delightfully imaginative and elegantly strange.  Unlike most little girls who spend their lives playing with dolls in the tea party variety she is a dedicated tomboy, and endearing for it.  She seems to understand with the coy intuitiveness of a child precisely how to interact with those around her.

The Story Tellers dedicated to our perfection and peace during the time of sleeping are both strangely detached and overly loving.  They exemplify the roles of protectors very well, trying to remain above situations and still maintain a compassion for those they protect.

Ink is a frightening fellow because of his entire desire to belong which is echoed by the other characters in the film.  His desperation is palpable throughout the movie.  Without revealing plot, the twist of the ending - or rather its resolution - is both heartening and touching.

The dream sequences of the movie, in fact, the entire movie is incredibly interestingly filmed.  It is both pleasant and delightfully odd.  The effects of the cameas are both heightening to the overall eery and always dreamlike qualities of the film and distracting.  The film cuts around a lot as we learn about Jacob, John, Emma, and the other characters.  While some of the images and presentations of characters can be grating they are acceptable because we are in a dream world for almost the entire movie.  It makes sense when we stop to examine the odd way our own dreams present themselves.

While it isn't perfectly filmed and is clearly a lower budget production, Ink has a very different take on a common storyline: redemption and family.  It's well worth watching, and it's one of those movies you can come back to again in the future which makes it very shelf worthy.