In the last ten years box offices have seen so many bad romantic comedies that it's hard to believe directors even try anymore. Even the ones that aren't awful aren't necessarily good, for example most of Meg Ryan and Jennifer Lopez's movies don't qualify as either. However, after I saw Angelina Jolie and Edward Burns in the horrific chick-flick `Life or Something Like It' I had to ask myself: "Has there ever been a good romantic comedy? Why do people still see these things? Isn't it obvious that the genre of romantic-comedy is a completely lost cause?" Then I saw this movie. If `Benny and Joon' is nothing else, it is solid proof that there is such a thing as a good romantic comedy. 
Aidan Quinn and Mary Stuart Masterson play dysfunctional siblings, Benny and Joon Pearl. Benny is a car mechanic whose dull life revolves around taking care of his mentally unstable sister, Joon. The climax of Benny's week takes during poker night with his friends. On one arbitrary night, Benny takes Joon with him, Joon ends up playing and looses. Benny and his friends always play for keeps, and as a result of Joon's loss is Benny has to take his friend's illiterate cousin, Sam (Johnny Depp), home with him. 
Sam is polite and curious and Benny decides to keep him around when he inadvertently cleans the whole house during his first day with the Pearls.  As time goes on, Sam's presence forces Benny and Joon to recognize long unrealized problems in their relationship, while simultaneously allowing Joon to indulge a side of herself she never knew existed. 
`Benny and Joon' strikes a perfect balance between quirky and adorable, and is rather Romeo-and-Juliet-like in its ability to make an audience care about what happens to a pair of very star-crossed lovers. The astonishingly real characters and the fact that they're played by exquisitely well cast actors is probably this movies best asset in a technical sense. Aside from that I think this movie's best point, is that it is absolutely unrivaled as the best romantic comedy I've ever seen in my life.