Neither my 11-year old son nor I liked this cartoon very much.  After being really excited about watching a Charlie Brown movie together -- he had even taken the time to search it out and DVR it -- he asked if we could stop watching halfway through. It's a long film...or maybe it just seemed long...a seemingly endless parade of sadness, anger, fighting and mistreatment.  A few chuckles were interspersed here and there, but most of all it seemed really heavy.

I found myself wondering about Charles Schultz as I watched.  Could it be that he was really a mean & miserable man?  It sure looked like it.  This truly felt like a passive-aggressive revenge piece to me...revenge at some unknown person or circumstance.  Charlie Brown in this movie is an exaggerated case study of woe, unluckiness and helplesness.  He was not even endearingly unlucky as he is in other films.  Snoopy is mistreated and unappreciated, rather than celebrated.

Peppermint Patty is the bossy, self-absorbed, female archetype. Charlie Brown's attempts to get away from her are a bit too obvious.  It was clearly a swipe at women.

Snoopy falls in the hands of a temporary owner, again a bossy girl who mistreats him, tries to over-control him, and who Snoopy makes snide faces at and does nothing but run away from.  Some of the dialog sounds more like a marital spat than a doggie tale.

Lucy is unusually mean and haggard looking in this film, especially during their boxing scene.

Linus and Snoopy have a knock-down, drag-out fight over Linus' blanket.  I found myself thinking that Schultz was portraying himself in the characters of Snoopy and Charlie Brown, who were both antagonized and mistreated by everyone else.  Both of them display an unhealthy resignation and passive anger to the people around them.

Charlie Brown's speech to Snoopy that "everything you are is because of me" really jumped out like a red hot poker.  I had the same thought as another reviewer; that either Schultz's wife had nagged him with this line, or that he was revealing a core issue of his own marriage.  Sure enough, the other reviewier researched it and discovered that Schultz had divorced the year before this film came out.

To me, it was a study in depression, separation, helpessness and meanness -- really nothing redeeming at all.  Even the drawings seemed crude and hard compared to the more soft and pleasing art of later Charlie Brown movies.  Of course, it could be that they just hadn't found their artistic style yet.  But the drawings, music and tone of the movie were much harsher than the more popular Charlie Brown movies.

The fighting seemed way too intense and graphic for a children's film, IMO.  I kept wondering what the producers must have thought of it once they saw the finished product.  I guess that once the film was done they had invested so much that they felt there was nothing to do but go ahead and release the film, despite its mean tone and inappropriateness for children.

I would recommend that parents pre-view this cartoon to see if they feel it is appropriate and even desirable for their children before watching together.