Yep . . . outside of Michael Caine's Harry Palmer ("The Ipcress File") or Richard Burton's sullen Leamas (who comes in from the cold), this is probably the best of an overworked genre; Connery is young, ruthless, savvy as all getout and often downright mean; his cold-blooded squaring of accounts with an island doctor who just pumped a pillow (thinking it was Bond in the sack) full of slugs may very well be the iciest knock-off of anybody on screen (i.e., "that's a Smith &amp; Wesson; you've had your six . . ." then "fwap-fwap" from a silenced Beretta -- ya gotta love it -- it just don't get any nastier than that); Ursula Andress, of course, is all rib cage and accent -- hard to believe she is truly innocent and hungry for protection; Connery's wardrobe ain't the resplendent stuff of "Goldfinger" or "Diamonds Are Forever" but then this is Bond on a budget -- hot, trimmed down and licensed to chill; the Bond theme -- the Jaw's theme sped up and twanged out -- is heard for the first time; it's author, Monty Norman, is rumored to be John Barry; who knows; Felix Leiter, Mr. CIA, is Jack Lord of Hawaii Five-0 -- Joe Kool -- all matter-of-factness (but do dig that hair -- hurricane proof fer shure); and Joseph Wiseman does a neat turn as Dr. No his very own self (an agent of Spectre we find out in the next Bond outing, "From Russian With Love"); Wiseman is a delight -- style without flamboyance, real presence (and, thankfully, less shrill than earlier Wiseman characterizations in "Viva Zapata" or "Detective Story"); it's a given -- Bond villains usually walk off with the film; not here; Connery and Dr. No are nicely paired; Ursula's pair helps as well; the converted on-the-water oil rig set gets by but who cares; I never bought the malevolent excess later Bond villains lived in . . . I mean, sheesh, Bond's taking them down seemed more prompted by jealousy of how they lived (and with whom) than by any King-and-Country urging to make the world safde for multinational corporate exploitation . . . .  Ooooops, sorry, but to get back to this Bond-edged gilty pleasure, get it, kick back and know you're at the onset of THE phenomenon; nd they just don't get any better than Connery on screen (forget "Darby O'Gill and the Little People"); Sean's a throwback to the larger-than-lifer of yesteryear we all wanted to grow up to be like (or marry or stalk ); and his Bond is definitive; no gadgets, no gimmicks; just grit and grabass and grace under pressure; hopefully, clean underwear too.