The reason for my title is because while this movie's central message is still relevant(especially today)this movie doesn't hold up well on certain levels. The central message or warning is simple and clear;people will answer violent oppression with violence(including terrorism)if they are given no other means to gain political and economic freedom. To me, Algeria's struggle to end France's 100-year+ Colonial Occupation is the clearest justified war in the post-WW2 world. Any attempt to paint this struggle as a Muslim VS Christian religious struggle are either ignorant or bigoted. One should study the history of France and its Colonies before watching this movie, particularly the WW2 years. Basically, after making up the majority of the "Free French" troops that did the main fighting for France in WW2, the Natives of these Colonies felt they deserved better education, voting rights,employment opportunities and the prosperity and political power that went with them. The French Colonial authorities, many of them ex-Vichy bureaucrats with extreme racist leanings, responded with lethal oppression. After portraying the fall of Dien Bien Phu(the only movie portrayal I know of), the first hint at this message is shown when the defiant POWs are marched past the rice fields the peasants planted to feed the huge besieging Viet-Minh army. One Frenchman who is a Vietnam-(or Indochina)born son of Plantation farmers rebuffs the Viet-Minh propaganda officer's claim that it was voluntary. The newly arrived(seriously, this guy jumped into the fire-base with a General the day before its overrun)Regimental historian disagrees and declares it was History that drove the peasants to take part in the struggle. From this point on this character becomes an ineffectual conscience for the unit formed by Anthony Quinn's character Colonel Raspeguy, a WW2 Resistance Veteran. Raspeguy, represents the many professional soldiers of France who were trying to carve a place for themselves in the post WW2 French society which claimed to be a freedom loving democracy but still acted like an Aristocrat dominated Empire. Raspeguy, desperate to secure a respected status, accepts command of a new Colonial Parachute Battalion in Algeria. Alain Delon's naive, educated Historian character represents the classic, intellectual French citizen who spends too much time talking and theorizing instead of acting. For example, he fails to stop an angry massacre of innocent Arabs by vengeful fellow paratroopers when he doesn't follow through on his threat to shoot the leader of the massacre. One wonders why, Raspeguy recruits this ineffectual intellectual into his tight knit ring of veteran officers and non-coms. Like in Saving Private Ryan, the idealistic viewpoint is let down by the inaction and weak character of the one championing it. The second warning in this story is that even men who have survived Occupation by brutal invaders will show brutality when pushed. While hunting for a ring of bombers during the Battle of Algiers, one character uses the same torture technique the Nazis used on his father! These messages still ring clearly especially in light of the ongoing War on Terror, with people like Sarah Palin trumpeting the use of torture!

  What doesn't hold up well in this movie is the lack of real soldiers training the actors in combat techniques and the glaring absence of much military equipment. I'm pretty sure there was only one or two Browning machine guns in this movie and not a single FM 24 LMG in sight(an integral part of a French Infantry squad of this period). I noticed an extreme lack of ammunition pouches, canteens and other essential equipment on the soldiers. There are trucks and jeeps but no armored cars or light tanks which were part of every military convoy, especially ones attacking an enemy base. When I first saw this movie as a little kid I didn't understand why my brother sneered at every scene(he had served in the Cold War era infantry). After my own time in the army, I knew  how a real soldier reloads his weapon as opposed to how an actor reloads(quickly and without looking at it) .I also knew that a sub-machine gun or a carbine can't hit a target from over 200 yards away, especially when fired from a helicopter! The only piece of artillery is a mortar that looks like it was put together from aluminum cans(and not even painted).Particularly unrealistic is how Raspeguy wins the final battle by dropping himself and six men behind the Rebels by using a Medevac helicopter. Yes, the immorality of taking advantage of the rebel leader's French trained reluctance to shoot down a Medevac chopper works but the idea of seven men winning the fight with nothing but sub-machine guns and grenades doesn't hold up. Especially as they attack in Hollywood style, standing up and shooting at targets too far away to hit!This movie looks too much like a James Bond movie of the same period and even the background music sounds like it too! This is far too moving and timely a subject to have only this movie representing it(besides Battle of Algiers, that is)so I hope somebody does a remake or another movie tackling the subject.
P.S. A Dien Bien Phu movie would be nice too!