I have just viewed this DVD of Mahler's "Resurrection" Symphony #2 in C minor conducted by Claudio Abbado from the Lucerne Summer Festival August 21, 2003.

I really do not like reviews as I always tell people that music is personal and what I like or dislike; someone else might have the opposite opinion. Having said this I must say that I was impressed with the playing of the Lucerne Festival Orchestra.

It is nice to see more Mahler making it onto DVD. I would like to see more of his works, especially Symphonies in this format. I am hanging out for a decent 8th.

The overall performance was great with some minor reservations.

This is going to seem like a mixed views revue, but that is what it is.

I was reasonably impressed with Abbado's control although for me my two favourite Mahler conductor are Klaus Tennstedt and the Late Sir Georg Solti.

For me they new what Mahler was all about and held a much firmer rein of their forces.

Their soloists (Edith Mathis; Doris Soffel: Tennstedt & Isobel Buchanan; Mira Zakai: Solti) were of a much better caliber and better balanced, although to give her her due; I was extremely impressed with Ann Larsson's rich dark mezzo voice; but felt that Eteri Gvazava whilst having a nice voice was overpowered by Larson. The tour de force in the finale was exceptional, but not as good as it could have been. I was disappointed that they did not show the off stage brass which seemed to be too far away. The choral singing of the Orfe&oacute;n Donostiarra was excellent. They seem to be a fairly well controlled choir. This is the first time that I have heard them and was impressed with their unaccompanied pianissimo, good control.

The DTS surround sound is exceptional, but I would like to have had the bells a lot louder in the finale, so as to ride over the orchestra. I think real bell would have been better than tubular bells; but that is just my opinion. Also; the booklet does not contain the text to the fourth and fifth movements. So you will have to use the subtitles to know what they are singing.

If you do not have a DVD of Mahler's 2nd Symphony, buy this one, with all that I have said; it is still a very good performance and remember this is only my opinion; you may completely disagree with it.