Smiley's People was the third novel in Le Carr&eacute;'s trilogy about the Soviet spymaster Karla (real name unknown) and his ongoing battle with his British opposite numbers. The first volume, Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy (likewise dramatized for UK TV,) dealt with the uncovering of Karla's mole planted in the Circus; The Honorable Schoolboy and Smiley's People followed the public and private damage caused by that betrayal, and, concomitantly, the obsolescence, as the Cold War waned, of the moral and political certainties with which both sides had entered the struggle (the beginning of the rot was dramatized unforgettably in Le Carr&eacute;'s best novel ever, the Spy who Came In From the Cold).

How well did the transition to the small screen go? A good deal better, I think, than the recent movie. With six generous episodes in which to move, the director had room for much more of Le Carr&eacute;'s emotional and psychological subtleties. Le Carr&eacute;'s always been better on discussion than action: for TV the director could amplify the second while still giving plenty of room to the first. Twenty years ago good British actors--and these were some of the best--could make an on-screen intellectual debate gripping. Alec Guinness (Smiley) or Bernard Hepton (Toby Esterhazy) could do more with a raised eyebrow or a flickering visual reaction than most thesps with five minutes of dialogue (and we got plenty of that, too). And the direction assumed  intelligent, sharp-minded viewers: the relief, today, of being treated as a grown-up was exhilarating.The action moves fast, avoiding Le Carr&eacute;'s penchant for reflective longueurs, but still keeping his scary emotional penetration. Perhaps the biggest triumph was pulled off by Patrick Stewart's unforgettable cameo performance as Karla: not one word of spoken dialogue, but he stole the climactic scene completely.

So, apart from anything else, a history lesson: not only in the Cold War, but in the evolution of TV drama. This is how it was at its zenith. I doubt whether we'll ever see anything as good ever again.