"Stand By Me" is a classic coming of age movie about growing up and friendship and the pain of disillusionment when the adults you depend upon let you down. Highly recommended.

In this review I'll focus mostly on the relationship between the movie and the Stephen King novella it is based on, and the DVD extra material that closes the ring.

The movie "Stand By Me" was made in 1986. It is based on a novella published in 1982 and the story takes place in 1959 (movie) or 1960 (novella). But the story is timeless - the conflicts and the difficult transition from child to adult apply to every generation.

There is a lot of trivia (pop songs, slang expressions, TV shows, etc.) from 1959/1960 in the movie and the novella, but this doesn't really anchor the story to that era. Every generation has it's own trivia that is very important to that generation.  But today's generation can smile at the trivia of 47 years ago and still see the parallels between that trivia and their (to them) much more wonderful trivia.

The movie is based on a novella by Stephen King called "The Body". This is one of Stephen King's best stories, and is well worth reading or, if you like audio books, listening to. The audio version lasts almost six hours and is read by Frank Muller. Highly recommended. If you'd prefer to read the story yourself then you should buy the book "Different Seasons", a collection of four Stephen King novellas including "The Body".

The movie and the novella are very similar. There are, of course, many small differences, for example the town of Castle Rock has been moved from Maine to Oregon, there is more coverage of the older juvenile delinquents and less coverage of Gordie's stories and of Gordie as an adult, the place where the bloodsuckers are encountered is different, etc., etc. The biggest difference is that in the novella Chris is the main protagonist, or hero if you like, while in the movie it is Gordie. Still, this movie is truer to the written source than most movies based on books are.

So why did Rob Reiner make these changes, and what on earth did Stephen King think of them?

Here's where the magic of DVD extra material comes in. The "Special Edition" (2000) and "Deluxe Edition" (2005) DVDs both include a 35-minute documentary "featurette" called "Walking the Tracks: The Summer of Stand By Me", which was made in 2000. Stephen King, Rob Reiner and all of the major actors in the movie (except River Phoenix, who died in 1993) participate.

In this documentary film Rob Reiner tells that he identified personally more with Gordie than Chris, and therefore decided to make the movie Gordie's story. And Stephen King says that he respected Rob Reiner's decision and thinks that "Stand By Me" was the first movie adaptation of his work that really fulfilled the spirit of the story.

Stephen King also says that many of the things that happen in "The Body" and in "Stand By Me" are things he experienced himself in his childhood. This makes the story somewhat autobiographical, with Gordie being in some ways the young Stephen King. In the novella "The Body" this is quite pronounced in that an adult Gordie is telling the story in the first person, and also tells how he's now become a successful writer of horror books.

So the bottom line is, if you like the movie then read or listen to the novella. And after you've read the novella and seen the movie, check out the DVD featurette that ties them together.

Rennie Petersen