OK, how do you explain this one? If you know who Peter Jackson is (you know, the Lord Of The Rings guy) this is some of the work he used to do in the early 90s. I was watching films like this back then and was surprised to hear he was doing the LOTR trilogy, never would have guessed that one...

Anyway, this movie is WAY gorier then the Evil Dead stuff (which was the goriest a decade or so earlier), but it's not really disturbing. They have some gross out gags. You know, like for 10 year olds, but I still think they're funny, so there. This isn't a mean movie in the slightest, it's actually pretty fun to watch, esp with your girlfriend/spouse or friends that have a weak constitution. Again, think of a teen trying to figure a way to gross you out, and that's the basic concept, it's not really a horror film as such but it's still one of my all-time favourite movies.

If you took all the gore out (leaving maybe 20 minutes or so of film) you have a cute little love story. Seriously. It's not really the Kiwi version of Evil Dead with way more fake blood and various body fluids. It's actually got decent actors for what it is, I mean, they were never trying to win a grammy or oscar or whatever with this one, that would come later (LOTR coughcoughcough).

This is basicly just a horror comedy, and a really good one at that. It's also very cartoonish. It's nowhere near as mean spirited as a movie like (what's popular???) Saw or Hotel is. It cracks me up that people think this is the most disturbing movie ever, really, you have no clue what's out there. I guess it's disturbing the number of times I've seen this in the last 20 years, I wore out 2 copies on VHS. BTW, if you can find Braindead it's the same movie and a little longer depending on the cut.

Besides Lionel, Father Jon McGruder kicks butt, he's the Kung-Fu/Karate Priest and one of the highlights of the movie. You'll just have to see it.

They have at least 4 versions of this floating around now (different cuts from the US R Rated 85 minute version to the full 104 minutes) and according to Peter Jackson, the 97 minute version is the best one. I can't figure the R rated version out though, since they have WAY more disturbing/sick/gory movies out these days that carry an R rating. Who knows how they do these things. The R version is a little choppy in the cuts (or was on my old VHS version anyway), but the unrated one is just fine, I havn't seen the one Peter Jackson likes so not sure what all they did to it, but I'll get it sooner or later.