This is the true story of Michael Oher, an offensive line back for the Baltimore Ravens and a very well depicted one at that. This movie also won an Oscar and 4 more awards this year, being nominated for 12 more. Adapted from Michael Lewis's The Blind Side: Evolution of a Game from 2006, Michael "Big Mike" Oher is a neglected, homeless African American teenager who struggles to find a warm place to stay every night. He meets the Tuohy's, a rich white family, who takes him in after seeing that he is homeless with no spare clothes or food. This movie follows Michael's life mainly after he meets the Tuohy's and his struggle attending Briarcrest Christian School with his 0.9 GPA and learning to play football. Throughout the story everything gradually becomes better: his living situation, his grades, his football performance and his life in general.
Newcomer Quinton Aaron, playing Michael Oher fit the role physically but also does a fantastic job portraying Oher as a quiet, vulnerable yet surprisingly emotionally strong character who could have easily been portrayed as either dull or retarded, due to Michael's lack of education. His character was the total opposite of Leigh-Anne Touhy's, played by Sandra Bullock who won an Oscar for her outstanding performance with her credible southern drawl, strength, brazen outlook, and sharp sass. Her role in this movie was very different from her usual roles in comedies such as Miss Congeniality and The Proposal, yet she fit it perfectly and I could not imagine anyone playing the role better. Tim McGraw played Sean Tuohy, Leigh-Anne's supportive husband who tolerated and never objected whatever Leigh-Anne did whether it was deciding to take Michael in or adopt him. S.J. is played by Jae Head who in reality is not the pipsqueak that the movie makes him out to be, however it worked in the movie because it plays up S.J.'s childlike innocence and genuine liking of Michael and his determination to help Oher become a better football player, only taking the best for his best friend and brother.
Director John Lee Hancock does a great job directing the movie. The movie was filmed in Atlanta although the story takes place in Memphis, Tennessee. However this does not affect the movie that much as it pretty much still captured the same southern feel. The camera usage and technology was great and was very smooth and easy to watch. The soundtrack of the movie was an interesting arrangement ranging from MC's rapping to the old school jazz of the Dave Brubeck Quartet. The music fit with the sequence of events and many of them were perfect fits to the scene and the themes of the movie. For example during the beginning credits the song Chances by Five for Fighting plays. The lyrics are very appropriate to what this movie is all about opportunities, and taking chances. "Chances are when said and done. Who'll be the lucky ones? Who make it all the way?"
A thought provoking and emotionally tearing part in the movie is when Michael Oher has to choose between his mother- who despite being a drug addict is still nevertheless his mother- and the Tuohy's who gave him the opportunity to succeed along with a loving stable family. Although The Blind Side follows a clich&eacute; movie format in that it is about an young African American who, when given the chance makes it big in the sports world yet at the same time it is different from all of the others. There is no horribly clich&eacute; reunion between Michael and his drug addicted mother, no overdone family bonding, it is very simply, very real. However there are some dramatized parts -therefore making The Blind Side a docudrama-  like Michael's smooth integration with the Tuohy's and his GPA rising from a 0.9 to a 2.54 in a short span of time albeit through effort and hard work, is very Hollywood. On the other hand Michael's flashbacks which we see occasionally show his rough childhood, the scene where the Sean Tuohy first lays eyes on Michael picking up buckets of popcorn after a basketball game, the gangs in the rough neighborhood where he comes from all contribute to The Blind Side being a much grounded movie.
The movie only subtly faces the role of race such as at the first football game when a group of rednecks make racist comments at "Big Mike" or when the Tuohy's and Michael go to an upscale restaurant and Michael bumps into his brother who happens to work as a waiter there, they are like splashes of reality throughout a almost fairytale like story. The movie over all is very inspiring and the diverse array of emotions felt by the audience feels is great. There are moments when you are angry at the injustice, saddened by the hopelessness, prideful in his victory, joyful at his happy ending. Compared to other docudramas of the past, all of the facts in this movie are correct except for how the immediate actions took by the Touhy's afterward. In reality, Sean went back to Briarcrest the day after to set up a lunch account for Michael to make sure he had something to eat after seeing him picking up buckets of popcorn after a basketball game. Also, Leigh-Anne did encounter Michael at the side of the road, however she did not offer him a place to stay directly but took him shopping. It is either the small details or the sequence of events that are different and since the message of the whole movie is not changed by those small insignificant details it is not a big deal.
 This movie can be enjoyed by everyone not only because it is so inspiring and touching, but because in the final events of the movie, you realize that this story is not really about the role of race or social classes and different cultures even within America, but that it is one human reaching out to help another human being in need. It is about kindness, love and family.