This is almost exactly what I hoped it wouldn't be. I could have tolerated a little tinkering with the standard origin, but what they came up with runs so contrary to what the Iron Man comic has been about that it's almost a slap in the face. For a hero and comic that's so concerned with the technological, to watch the storyline just kind of decompose into hokey mumbo jumbo while almost 44 years of history aren't just tossed to the side, but into the dirt, that's hard for me to swallow.

The fact is, the story wasn't just different, it was BAD. The pacing was awful, and honestly, the only parts really worth watching are the battle sequences (minus the awful non-event that is the "Mandarin" face-off). I was pleased with the Ultimate Avengers movies, I thought they portrayed Iron Man well, and while they didn't really portray either Ultimate Iron Man or classic Iron Man exactly right, as the character was more or less an amalgamation of the two, he was much closer than this take on him, which basically has him with this emo-angst, I have to prove something to daddy thing. Howard should have been left DEAD.

So to sum it up. What I thought was WRONG about Iron Man:

1) Hokey, mumbo-jumbo filled story that ignores Tony Starks genius and reduces him to merely a reactionary shell of the comic character.

2) Howard Stark...alive.

3) Rhodey...a wimp (Army medic? COME ON!!!).

4) Pepper Potts...BRITISH?!? Was that to add a touch of class?

5) Mandarin...a GHOST?!? An emperor from some obscure Chinese Dynasty? Bleh...

6) A dragon that ISN'T Fin Fang Foom...

7) Iron Man using a sword (BTW, the 'prophecy' angle is tired and lame)!

8) A final 'battle' that is a non-event. Tony's whining throughout was particularly grating...

9) Too much time in the clunky origin armor (with all those other armors supposedly already made, including the Ultimate armor, and we get the Shellhead?).

10) Ignoring Tony's character. Now everyone thinks if you do a few cheesy pickup lines and have him drink some booze, you've nailed him. Where is the intelligence? Where is the wit? Where are the one-liners and critical thinking from the past? He's a genius (except when it comes to women)...treat him as one.

I'm stopping at 10...

This movie is poor. I'll give it an extra star for the battle sequences, which are at least entertaining, but the rest is boring, almost painful in some places. Hopefully the 2008 live-action film will fare much better.