No matter how many times I see this, I laugh as if it were the first!

There is absolutely NOTHING that's a downside of this movie. The casting is inspired - Raymond Massey as the Boris Karloff lookalike, Jonathan, Peter Lorre as Dr. Einstein, and Cary Grant - just beyond perfect as Mortimer Brewster - the unseen Mr. Spinolzo, the "hot stiff in the rumbleseat."

I've always loved Cary Grant in a drama or comedy, but honestly, he is so freaking funny in this movie that no one can compare in any other vehicle.

Grant's conversation on the phone with the operator while he's trying to get the Happydale Sanitarium is priceless! (I often feel that same way when I'm on the phone with my HMO.) Meanwhile, Aunt Abby and Aunt Martha are trying to give some tainted elderberry wine to yet another unsuspecting old man they think is lonely and needs to be relieved of the burden of living.

When Grant gets off the phone, he's so frustrated he pours himself a glass of wine - elderberry wine, and Aunt Martha gives him an "uh uh UH!" and he drops the glass. But the potential border cum victim is about ready to drink his down, and Grant SCREAMS and chases him out of the house with, "Do you want to be poisoned? Do you want to be killed?" and trips over a chair.

Then there's the scene where he goes to the judge to get cousin Teddy (who thinks he's Teddy Roosevelt) committed to Happydale. The judge is an old stiff himself, and he tells Mortimer, "Tell Aunt Abby and Aunt Martha I'll be over. I've been a little lonely," to which Mortimer shouts, 'No, no! Don't ever tell them you're lonely! Tell me, Judge, are you a drinking man?"

The judge says, "Certainly not!" but adds as a relieved Mortimer is leaving, "Of course, a little wine now and then...." Mortimer screams, "Not wine! No wine! Don't drink wine!" The judge then wonders, "Maybe I committed the wrong Brewster."

Then there's the inimitable Jack Carson as the cop on the beat who is playwrite on the sly. His expressions are second only to Grant, particularly when he reacts to Teddy.

Priscilla Lane is perfect as Mortimer's fiance, Elaine (a small part, but oh, she does it perfectly.)

As you can tell, I've seen this movie so many times I've inadvertently memorized whole sections of dialogue. Since I never, ever rewatch movies until I've forgotten them, there's no higher compliment I can pay to "Arsenic and Old Lace."

I just pray no one ever tries to remake this classic. There isn't an actor alive who could hope to compare to the original cast in this masterpiece.

This movie is perfect, and if you haven't seen it, you are in for the best time of your life. I'll dig a lock to that! :)