Corey Yuen the director has churned out enjoyable Hong Kong type actioners for some time.  He's always seemed to exist in John Woo's shadow.  He churns out enjoyable sturdy films (usually with Jet Li) but somehow just short of the brilliance and originality that John Woo wowed the world with.  He continues in that vein with The Transporter.  A thoroughly enjoyable but (with the exception of the lead performance) unremarkable action film.
Jason Stratham plays a mercenary transporter who will transport anything for a fee no questions asked.  He has a set of fixed rules that he follows without deviation.  On one mission he breaks his own rule and opens the package that he is assigned to carry.  The result is his life is in danger and he has to take on the mob to live again.
Stratham is the stand out here.  Even though the script barely flushes out a character for him to play he manages to convey the essence of his character through the set of his jaw, the tenseness with which he holds himself, his clipped responses. It's a beautiful physical performanc and enhances the film even without the humor that Jackie Chan or Harrison Ford often convey in their best work.  He moves well in the action sequences and is fit without being an overmuscled Stallone, Schwarzenegger, or Diesel type.
Unfortunately, Stratham is the only actor who stands out. Qi Shu who plays the female lead seems to just squeal and seek protection.  She seems almost creepily suppliant to Stratham.  The villains seem pretty generic as does the Francois Berleand as the detective after Stratham.  Berleand's accent is so thick that I couldn't even understand him when he was talking about Proust. Fortunately, his dialogue scenes are brief.
If you're looking for action, the film delivers on all counts in numerous beautifully shot and staged car chases, explosions and martial arts style fights.  Except for one or two implausible plot points the script is efficient and sets up a nifty premise (though I still have a feeling there is a truck not accounted for by the end of the film).  The movie overdoes the hip-hop and music blasts.  The music seems so generic and just there to add market value that it takes away from the atmosphere of the film. 
Still a decent film with a great star making performance in it.  I hope Stratham does more work in the future.  He really does have a powerful range and a sense on how to convey a character well in the cartoon world of action films.  This is not as easy as it seems (witness Vin Diesel's work in XXX or Cruise's work in Minority Report)--Stratham should have a bright future!