I know it sounds scary, but it's just one of the many reasons why this is one of the greatest films ever.  Don't be misled by comparisons to Bing's earlier "Holiday Inn."  That's a great film too, but when they held a sprig of mistletoe over "Holiday Inn," and gave it a big, warm, Technicolor kiss -- they ended up with "White Christmas."

Rosemary Clooney is a star here. She's at her most gorgeous and in her best voice ever.  Hearing her rich, beautiful alto renditions of "Count Your Blessings," or the mournful, haunting "Love, You Didn't Do Right by Me," is like pulling a thick comforter up to your chin on a snowy night.  Clooney went on to a long illustrious career, of course, becoming an acclaimed jazz vocalist in her later years, but I will always love the Rosemary of this period the best.

As much a star, but with a lot more twinkle, is the real stand-out, Vera-Ellen, who deserves extra accolades for being one of the first stars to be known only by her first name.  She has the added distinction of being the sole reason for hearing someone at our house say every Christmas, "Look how TINY her WAIST is!"

She was a power-house dancer, but has never garnered the acclaim that she deserves.  Her other best-known role was "Miss Turnstiles" in Gene Kelly's "On the Town," but her dancing skills are highlighted more in "White Christmas," being the only real dancer in the quartet.  Director Michael Curtiz brings in John Brascia, an athletic and powerful dancer in his own right, just to keep up with her.  He seems to, but, honestly, you can't take your eyes off Vera-Ellen long enough to know for sure.

Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye bring all their star power to complete the quartet of principal characters.  Crosby is smooth as usual, and a little understated, with his legendary pipe and even more legendary pipes, while Kaye's comic craziness is the spike in the eggnog.  Their duet in drag (not full drag, mind you, like..say... Gene Hackman in "The Bird Cage") is a highlight of the film that still makes me smile after all these years.

Take these four superstars, dress them up in some of Edith Head's best designs, give them wonderful songs from Irving Berlin, add great supporting actors like Mary Wickes and Dean Jagger, a splash of Vista-Vision, a heapin' helpin' of Technicolor, march in a platoon of veterans, pour in a tanker-truck load of sentimentality, then tie it all up in some pretty Christmas wrapping, and you have yourself a classic.