I just saw Basic Instinct 2 again, and my opinion of the movie changed. Initially, I had a lot of issues with the movie. And then I read all of the negative press and reviews, and coupled with the awful box office, I really went in a second time with a much dimmer impression. But oddly, I very much came to love this sequel. I went back to see it looking through the lens that was created by all of the negative and vicious criticism. I went out of my way to pay attention to why people were saying this was one of the worst movies and/or sequels of all times, and I was very happy to realize that are all dead wrong. (Warning: some of this may contain slight spoilers)

First, people are attacking Sharon Stone like she dressed up like the Prophet Mohammedand defecated on the screen. Her interpretation of Catherine is no different than it was in the first movie. She is SUPPOSED to be over the top. They did add a little more sarcasm to her character though, but it's because her position in the movie is different. This story definitely told from Catherine's P.O.V. She is purposely being a sarcastic and nasty and blatant about her machinations to see just how stupid these people really are. If you notice it's mostly directed towards Glass. It's a form of antagonizing him and making him angry enough to fight her, which is what she wanted. Catherine is much more exacting and evil in this sequel. I really enjoyed how much it fully exploited her character's potential.

The screenplay is just as implausible as the first movie. It takes no more leaps in logic that the original. The same goes for the dialog. Actually the dialog is a little more restrained in the second one. Am I the only one who remembers: "She's evil! She's brilliant!"? The acting in this one is also a lot more restrained. Michael Douglas wasn't all that subtle if you remember correctly.The sequel was darker and more focuses on the mind games than the first movie, which I prefer.

A lot of criticism has been placed on the sex scenes (or rather, the chopped and butchered ones in the R rated cut). Again, I felt the same way the first time I saw the movie. But I was wrong. People are viewing the sex through the lens of the first movie. The first movie's view of sex was very titillating and very much told from a soft-core-porn-cable-male point of view. It was so choreographed and so overdone. It worked brilliantly for the first movie. The sex in the second one is completely different. It's much more realistically done. It is not as staged. Also the sex in the sequel is, like the rest of the move, dark and violent and disturbing. That doesn't mean that it's not hot; it just means that the sex in the sequel is used for a completely purpose. Every sex scene has a very specific purpose and that is control and/or manipulation.

To be sure the first movie has sequences that can't be beat: Johnny's death; interrogation scene; the club scene, but the sequel isn't trying to one-up the first movie. It stands by itself. It's a completely different feel and angle. But the sequel has its own great moments as well: the scene where she straddles the chair in his office; threesome scene was hot and a great example of her power over him; the Jacuzzi; Milena's apartment. But especially the ending! It was far much more satisfying than the original. Evil, dark, and uncompromising, the ending was awesome.

People are condemning this movie for reasons that go far beyond tastes and preferences. They really seem to be punishing this movie for its existence. They are also not comfortable with a woman being that unapologetic about her sexuality. Also, Sharon's age is being repeatedly attacked and used as a negative slant. That's just stupid and indefensible. We should celebrate age and sexuality. Condemning them just shows how ignorant and pathetic the purview of this country has become.

I do agree that the timing of the release was very poorly chosen. This just isn't the market for erotic thrillers or for a more serious frank view of sex, period. It's a really safe time for movies. No one's really taking chances. And Brokeback Mountain doesn't count! I loved it, but it was defiantly very carefully done. It wasn't really all that envelope pushing. The fact that people think the idea of two men falling in love as "radical" or "envelope pushing" or "new" should probably stick their heads back in the sand.

If this movie had been released in a less restrictive time, it would have done better. It certainly wouldn't have been as vilified as it has been. Further more; the MPAA wouldn't have felt the need to cut the thing to all hell. It is an excellent sequel. It deserves far better treatment than it is receiving. It's really a shame actually, and it's also very telling of major issues within our overly judgmental and uneducated culture.