I chose 4 stars rather than 5 because the video image quality of this set wasn't as sharp as the CBS/Paramount re-releases of this series. But those re-releases are 15 to 20 times costlier than Mill Creek Entertainment's "The Best of Bonanza"!

I've had this 4 DVD set of "all" the "public domain" episodes of Bonanza for neigh onto 10 years now and can find little or no fault with it. I'll get into the 3 biggest bitches that all of the most negative reviews have to say about this set in a moment. But first I've got to say that everyone who wrote each of these negative reviews has to be a "still wet behind the ears kid" of 30 years or less!

Biggest Bitch Number 1; The image quality:

Having had my 54'th birthday a little more than three months ago, I have very crystal clear cognoscente memories of what it was like to rent a movie or a block of TV episodes between the very early 1980's through the mid to late 1990's. During this approximate 15 to 18 year block of time (before DVDs became the "only game in town"), the only way one could rent anything was on a VHS video cassette. I can easily say that during this same time I paid at least two thousand plus dollars on movie and TV episode rentals.

And of all those VHS rentals I could also say that I had probably got a 100+ tapes whose image quality wasn't up to snuff. Either a previous renter played that movie through a deck with filthy playback heads or the tape had somehow became wrinkled. In any event the image quality of all of Mill Creek Entertainment's "The Best of Bonanza" episodes was equal to or exceeded 85 to 90 percent of any of the VHS tape rentals that I've made in the past.

The above statement is just not an "apples and oranges" comparison of VHS to DVDs. When one considers the cost, quality, and quantity ratios of this set of discs, their image quality should only be compared to the original broadcasts of this series and not their totally digitally re-mastered counterparts. Counterparts that as I said before cost 15 to 20 times more than this set of Bonanza episodes do.

But to give the devil his due, I haven't quite joined the 21'st century yet either. I watch all my video through a 12+ year old 27 inch standard TV tube analog RCA television set. If I had a large flat screen HD TV it might have made a difference.

As to the much carped about video compression rates found on each of the 4 DVDs in this set. Your getting between 8 and 9 48+ minute episodes of classic western TV shows on each of these discs. You just can't get that much video on a single DVD without "mashing" it several times. And you have to remember that this 50+ year old TV series was made back in the good/bad old days when everything was filmed, edited and broadcast via a purely "analog" technology! And although the image quality isn't as sharp as the completely digitally re-mastered episodes of a contemporary TV series, I'd bet they're as clear or clearer than when Bonanza was originally broadcast back in the late 1950's. Remember HD TV wasn't even a pipe dream in some of the most forward thinking science fiction writers of the time. 3D TV maybe, but no one that I know of wrote a single syllable as to how clear the resolution of 3D TV might've been!

Biggest Bitches Numbers 2 & 3; Poor audio quality & lousy theme music during the opening/closing credits:

It truly makes me weary to hear someone gripe and bitch about the audio quality of this set. Bonanza's last broadcast episode of the series (1973) was almost a decade away from hearing "any TV show" broadcast with a stereo audio track. Granted the audio portion of this DVD set isn't as sharp or clear as any contemporary TV series with all their Dolby or THX enhanced multiple channel stereo. But it is certainly as clear as the clearest amplitude modulated (AM) radio broadcast that you've ever listened to. And consider this. A lot of Amazon's qualified resellers out there are selling this set for well under $10.00. I bought 8 to 10 copies of this set from the $5.00 bargain DVD movie bin at my local Wal-Mart. At these deep discounted prices (it's "original" MSRP was $14.95), it begs the questions: "What in the old "Billy Hell" do want for nothing? A couple of free eggs in your suds?!"

Back when "the powers that be" let these 31 episodes of Bonanza slip through their "copyright fingers", they still managed to hold onto the original "Bonanza Theme". So anyone who wanted to republish and distribute any of these now public domain Bonanza episodes, had to come up with something other than the original "Bonanza Theme" to resell them . Over the years preceding Mill Creek Entertainment's release of "The Best of Bonanza", I've probably bought most of these Bonanza episodes 2 to 3 times. Through as many as 3 to 4 different video publishers. And each of these public domain publishers used the cheapest, tackiest, goofiest and lamest public domain music they could find to "hawk their wares".

For a perfect example of the "cheap and cheesy", just go to (email me for the URL) and give the video player a click. These boobs actually have the gall to try and sell you all of nine of the very same episodes found in "The Best of Bonanza" on 3 DVDs for $29.95!

Everyone would prefer to hear the original Bonanza theme with all their Bonanza episodes. But when it comes to all the public domain Bonanza venders out there, Mill Creek's opening and closing theme music for these Bonanza episodes is the only one fit to listen to. I'd even go as far to say that compared to all the rest of the public domain Bonanza venders, Mill Creek's acoustical base guitar strumming that opens and closes each of these episodes is more than palatable!

A note on Mill Creek Entertainment's customer service:

Of all the copies of this set that I purchased from Wal-Mart, 3 of them turned out to be defective. In each case a single DVD within the set could not be played. Since only one out of the four discs was defective I decided to contact Mill Creek themselves and ask them to replace that single bad disc rather than take them all back to Wal-Mart. Each time I contacted Mill Creek's customer service department, they politely took down my name and address and told me my replacement disc would go out in that same day's mail. I also told these fine folk that I'd gladly return the defective disc along with my Wal-Mart receipt if need be. They assured me that it wasn't necessary.

In a week or less I received a small cardboard cartoon in my post office box. In this cartoon I didn't just get my one bum Bonanza disc replaced, they sent me an entire new "Best of Bonanza" set. The depth of this cartoon was deep enough as to have required at least a quart or more of "Styrofoam Peanuts" to secure my "Best of Bonanza" set. But what did they use instead of any them there "Styrofoam Peanuts"? Two brand new 3 to 4 DVD video collections! And they did this on all three of those defective Bonanza disc replacements! With no repeats in all those bonus DVD collections! Within all those DVDs I received wonderful collections of The Lone Ranger, The Sisco Kid, The Roy Rogers Show, Zorro, Rin Tin Tin, plus a 4 disc 57 western TV episode collection from 7 or 8 different series. And a 4 disc DVD collection containing the entire first season of the British TV show Robin Hood!

But alas I'm afraid Mill Creek is no longer doing this. The last time I acquired a defective Mill Creek DVD they only replaced the single disc. But in the beginning, when this new company was establishing itself, it was a grand and glorious time to have a defective purchase "fixed"!