Sorry to write this, but Sergio Corbucci's Django is neither as great or as bad as noted by some of these reviewers. I'd have to rank it just a notch below Leone's "A Fist Full of Dollars" and nowhere close to Leone's other masterpieces (For a Few Dollars More, The Good The Bad and The Ugly, and Once Upon A Time in the West). This is mostly because it lacks the timeless qualities that the Leone classics have maintained over the decades..an atmospheric grittiness and realism that few films, western of otherwise have  been able to achieve.

Django is purhaps a slightly better than a average film. What has probably made it a cult classic is the violence in it that was shocking to film goers in the mid 1960's.

The first time I viewed Django, I was a little disappointed. But I the next time I viewed it, I made a point to look at it by transporting myself to a 1960's mindset.

Looking at the film this way made me see why this movie has been such a cult favorite. But it lacks the appeal to go beyond that.

If it did, it would most certainly be right up there with the Leone epics. but it falls far short...at least for me.

The detractors of Django are most likely looking at it with at least from a present day view point. From this view point the film may look like a jumbled unrealistic mess. You would be a lot less likely to get the same opinions from any of the Leone films.

One reviewer claimed Django mows down 100 or so bad guys with a machine gun that is neither cooled or reloaded, then he complains that they should have attacked at all directions. First Django only himself kills a few dozen or so with this weapon. And since neither guerilla not terrorist tactics were not perfected in those days, why would a few dozen men feel the need to sneak up a a lone gunman who they believe they out number.

The scene itself is realistic enough considering the exploits of Stallone's Rambo and Swarzenegger's antics.

Django is entertaining. But it doesn't quite hold up as a timeless masterpiece.