Man on Fire is an entertaining action flick starring Denzel Washington in the lead role as John Creasy- a former CIA employee who has been hired to act as the bodyguard for a young girl in Mexico City. The city has seen an increase in kidnappings and Washington's character has been hired by the parents of the little girl to keep her out of harm's way.

This movie offers some good suspense and a plot that is less predictable than other films, making it more entertaining to watch. It seems like a large number of Hollywood films as of late offer plots that can be predicted in the first ten or fifteen minutes. With Man on Fire, you find yourself predicting the outcome but not really knowing what will happen until the end.

One thing about this movie that might turn off some viewers is the level of violence. There are some gruesome, bloody scenes depicted in this movie and the director definitely pushes the limits of censorship on more than one occasion. The movie received an "R" rating, but this could have easily been changed to "NR", "NC-17" or some other rating with a little more visible violence. To keep the rating down to "R", the director wisely decided to keep the violence on screen from crossing the threshold that would have changed it. You know what is going on, but in many cases you cannot see the violence directly.

Denzel Washington is the main star of this film and his performance is excellent, like always. He is tough, mostly cool, and most certainly a seeker of justice who shows no remorse for hurting someone who he feels deserves it. His supporting cast, which includes the likes of Marc Anthony, Radha Mitchell, and others, is only mediocre and they come across as only semi- believable. Young Dakota Fanning- the girl who Denzel is hired to protect- is the only person in the supporting cast who performs above average.

Man on Fire is worth a look, and it will appeal mostly to those who like suspenseful drama. The violence can get a little carried away at times and some of it will shock the average viewer. But this movie is a good one with an unpredictable plot that keeps you guessing all the way to the end.