This is a powerful documentary for me mainly because it hits close to home.  I've known some people who got themselves into deep doo-doo with credit problems and have taken a long time to dig themselves out.

I find it interesting that the negative reviews for the film argue that it doesn't mention "personal responsibility" and places the blame for all of this at the feet of the corporations and the government.  I'll agree its fairly one-sided in that regard but when the problem has been created by the corporations and the government to begin with, then that's arguably where most of the blame *should* lay.  The evidence is at the end when the congressional committee doesn't even question the corporate wonks - just lets them make their statements and "have a nice day".  Yeah, nice.  And lets blame the borrowers...

I give this four stars because I'll agree somewhat with the one-sidedness.  But it also loses a star because I don't think it really goes into the psychological hell that people experience when they run into massive debt.  Why would credit card companies provide offers to people they consider to be high risks for bankruptcy?  Wouldn't it make sense to just ignore that group and not try to get their business?  Of course not - for two reasons.  1) (which was mentioned in the film) the companies don't want to lose any money - *ANY* money - they don't need to.  2) (and this wasn't really covered in the film) the companies (I think) know that the high risk people have problems with money.  Just like people who have problems with gambling, alcohol, drugs, or sex, I think these companies know that people who are "high risk" for bankruptcy are also some of the biggest spenders and worst managers of their own finances - and they take advantage of it.  I would have liked to have seen more development of this potential angle.

This film is an excellent wakeup call and provides some great information for people who may not be aware of the way things are in this country.  It shows just how deep the companies and the government are in this together.  For that, its worth more than the price.

I would love to see an update - since most of the stuff in here is from 2005, I want to know how the Nevada real estate agent is doing these days.  Is the median price for a home still over $268,000?  I believe it may not be.

I also want to know if some of the people interviewed in this film are still alive.

The Harvard professor mentions a two-tiered society in the America of the future.  As far as I'm concerned, we're already there.