After seeing so many previews of this movie on other DVDs, I decided to give it a try.  Touted as being "as cool as Mean Girls," the movie is about man-about-town John Tucker and what happens when three of the most influential girls in school (who also happen to each be his "secret girlfriend") decide to take John down a peg or two.  Using new girl Kate to break his heart, Kate gets caught up in the social whirlwind of her new high school as she goes from anonymous to the it girl.

The premise is fun and if you don't think about the movie too hard, there are a lot of funny moments.  Many of the girls' plots revolve around embarrassing John to make him lose credibility in front of his basketball teammates and, ultimately, the entire school.  But as their revenge plots escalate in wackiness, John's cool factor keeps going up.

However, the writers introduce a lot of loose ends that they never wrap up by the end of the movie.  They also ask the viewers to stretch their imaginations way too far.

As an example - an early revenge plot involves switching John's health supplement with estrogen powder.  After liberal doses, John starts acting like, well, a woman with PMS.  I highly doubt that the powder would have an effect that quickly and make you lash out emotionally.

But the place where the writers dropped the ball revolves around Kate's relationships with her mother and with the "other Tucker," John's brother Scott.  Kate and her mother barely talk in the movie (just one or two heart-to-hearts that are very superficial), so the changes in Kate's mother's behavior seem very abrupt.  And Scott is introduced early in the movie, and you expect something to develop... and then they just put his character on hold while Kate "pursues" John.

I think the movie would have been stronger if Kate and Scott's relationship had developed more, so when Kate comes clean, it's not completely about her and her lies, but also because she would rather have a real relationship with a better man.

At least in "Mean Girls" the Plastics all learn something and grow from the experience.  By movie's end, it doesn't seem that any of the characters from "John Tucker Must Die" have learned anything.

Recommended as a rental on a rainy day, if you can't find anything better on the shelf.