The president of the United States has the power to appoint his cabinet, along with numerous other positions, provided the Senate has had the opportunity to fill the twin roles of both "advise and consent."  This presidential prerogative is constitutionally guaranteed.

In the movie Advise and Consent, the Secretary of State has died and the President offers a controversial nominee as replacement. The nomination comes absent any consultation by the President with his own political party.  The President has an eye for the future, as his own health is failing, and sees his nominee Robert Leffingwell as an important, stable part of his legacy.  Clearly, the President has grave doubts about efficacy of his Vice President Harley Hudson in carrying out a foreign policy that will guide America through dangerous times.

It is, however, in a brilliant coup de sort that Vice President Hudson lets the Leffingwell nomination fail in the Senate. The movie closes as the Senate votes to a tie for Leffingwell.  Hudson then learns of the President's death, breaks ranks and signals his independence, and lets the nomination fail.

In between the nomination and its subsequent defeat, viewers are treated to a true to life political circus:  committee meetings, surprise witnesses, lofty rhetoric, political backstabbing and blackmailing abound.  The movie also doubles as a veritable civics lesson..

This movie has a lot of the typical elements of other political movies.  Washington novices, like Jefferson Smith of Mr. Smith Goes to Washington and Robert Leffingwell of Advise and Consent, can easily be set-up and brought to near ruin by more politically savvy players.  The likes of Jack Stanton (Primary Colors) and Senator Cooley (Advise and Consent) play to win and will leave no stone unturned in pursuit of whatever they choose to pursue.

.

As the United States Senate currently faces a dirty fight for Supreme Court nominee John Roberts this movie rings eerily relevant.  It was not that long ago that John Bolton's nomination as Ambassador to the United Nations stalled in the Senate, a victim of the very circus that nearly derailed the fictional Leffingwell.

This dirty fighting helps put Washington politics and the nomination process in 2005 into better context.  Each generation has a tendency to look back at a golden age of political discourse, dominated by congeniality, mutual respect and reverence for Cinncinatus type behavior. Frequently, we hear how divided we are and how much political foes despise each other coupled as evidence that shows how far removed we are from the "Golden Age" of real, strong, moral men and women with honest intentions as policy makers/  This movie reminds all of us that such golden ages are almost always fictional.  Politics is rough and tumble business, often dirty, and frequently ignoble irrespective of the time or place.