Usually when I think about a particular movie and try to arrive at some kind of conclusion about it, I tend to end up saying that it's either "good", or bad, in some final, ultimate sense. A movie is either worth seeing or isn't; it either has something interesting to say or hasn't. Of course, even worse than movies that ultimately have nothing to say are pretentious films that pretend to have some such thing. 
That much being said, I'd like to state first that probably no movie has ever left me so confused as to its true identity as a good or bad film experience, as "Punch-Drunk Love". 
Everyone who saw it told me it was stupid; some just said it was horrible. A friend of mine who has seen a lot of movies and whose judgment in these matters I trust said that he had tried to keep
an open mind throughout the whole movie - but that by the end he felt like the director's whole intention was just to have him sitting there scratching his head, and he left disappointed. In the first place, when I had first heard that the new P.T. Anderson movie was going to have Adam Sandler in it, I thought "Wow, that's going to be really painful." But "Magnolia" was and is one of my favorite movies, and most importantly, Emily Watson was playing alongside the protagonist. I figured that even if it was really bad, the sheer novelty of seeing an actress like Emily Watson rattling off some horrible script would be worth seeing.
Well, what can one say? It succeeds at being a good and a bad movie at the same time. I think I'm convinced that this was Anderson's mission. This movie has some great, beautiful moments. The initial party scene where Barry kicks out a glass door; he ends up confiding to his brother-in-law in the laundry room: "Sometimes I cry a lot..." Whether it's Sandler or Anderson who should get the credit for that scene, it's pure genius. The score by Jon Brion seems to follow Barry everywhere he goes, and it works to great effect. The writing is genius in so many places. Agains, towards the end of the movie, when Barry has cracked and flown to Hawaii just to see this chick he hardly knows: he doesn't become a good guy, he explodes on his sister over the phone "I'm not gonna take this !@#$ing *&amp;^% anymore you %$#@...!"
Again, a great scene, prefectly filmed.
The only problem is...this movie is bipolar or something. It can't decide whether it wants to please or not. I won't give away anything, but I feel obligated to inform people of the ungodly pretentiousness running rampant throughout this film. There are incredible scenes like the ones I mentioned, but there are also scenes where I swear to God the movie is actually making fun of itself and the director is trying to insult his audience directly. 
So, there you go, just a warning. But at least see it once.