Being the Scary Movie fan that I am, I didn't hesitate to see the sequal.  Finding myself laughing at about 5% of the jokes, I started to wonder why this movie didnt work like the first one did.  I came to a couple conclusions.  
1)  You cannot make a film in less than a year.  It is literally impossible.  The Wayans brothers had less than a year to write, produce, film and edit this movie.  The result?  A rushed, unfunny, big dissapointment.  I think if they waited at least 6 months to a year, they would have made a more successful movie.  They would have also had oppurtunities to spoof huge summer movies like Pearl Harbor, Planet of the Apes, The Mummy Returns, AI, Tomb Raider, or Cats and Dogs (which beat ot SM2 opening weekend.)  They should have taken their time.
2)  You cannot use the same jokes twice.  If you've seen the movie you will be able to determine which jokes were repeated. Not is it only unfunny, it also makes the audience dissapointed.  Why pay money to see a joke they could have watched 10 times on their DVD at home?  It just doesn't make sense. 
3)  You cannot leave parts of the story left untied.  I left the theatre without relalizing what happened to any of the characters.  There was no story, no characters and no conclusion.  It was just attempted jokes loosely connected with more attempted jokes.  I have a real hard time liking a movie when I had no idea what happened in the movie.
4)  You cannot spoof unsuccessful movies.  While they spoof such high-grossing movies like The Exorcist and Charlie's Angels, people relate and then they laugh, a mixture for success, right?  Right.  Spoofed jokes aren't as funny when your spoofing House on Haunted Hill and The Haunting (which were both far from mainstream) or even Hollow Man (which was avoided by so many)  
Overall, I was very sad that I wasted eight dollars on this movie.  It had potential and if they would have done many things differently, this movie may have been a huge success.  I wanted so bad for this movie to be good, but as we once heard from the Rolling Stones, "You Cant Always Get What You Want."  Shucks!  
1.5  outta  5