The movie is great, and indeed looks awesome on Blu-Ray...

But remember when the Collector's Edition of Pulp Fiction included a 16 page Booklet and a Menu from Jack Rabbit Slims?  <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000068DBC">Pulp Fiction (Two-Disc Collector's Edition)</a>

I really miss the days when upon opening a new DVD you were actually impressed by the amount care and effort that went into the presentation & packaging of the DVD.

The current Blu-Ray release of Pulp Ficition  does away with all that "unnecessary" stuff and just gives you the disc, nothing more of value to read or flip through. My Blu-Ray from Amazon came in an "Eco-Friendly" case that blows chunks. No printing on the reverse side of the cover that might show a scene or two from the movie, include a list of Chapters, or actor/director Bios; just plain bland white.

They did spend some extra money on three different types of anti-theft stickers. I'm sure this prevented untold numbers of thefts from the Local Amazon Stores. Before I could open the case, I had to first remove an outside sticker designed to prevent me from opening the case, simply labled "Security Device Enclosed" it performed it's task admirably. Once I got past the first layer of security, and got inside the case I was greeted with two additonal and different anti-theft sticker devices which were both very difficult to remove cleanly, I then threw them away. So much for being Eco-friendly. Can someone please remind me again why Amazon needs security stickers? Since this was a pre-order one would think Mirimax or Lionsgate or whover would know the discs were going to Amazon, who doesn't need them.

(Speaking of pre-orders, 6 days after the release date they lowered the price to 12.99 as a Thank-you to all who pre-ordered at 14.99)

To be fair, they did include a standard external cardboard sleeve with the classic shot of Uma on the cover. Of course, they slapped two other  Stickers on the front to cover her up. The first sticker tells me I can scan it with my Smartphone and watch the trailer on my 4 inch phone screen, thanks to this 1 1/2 inch "Wimo Enabled" sticker. Wow, who WHO KNEW, you could Stream a trailer from the internet and watch it on a web enabled phone? The second sticker was a plain 1 1/4 inch yellow square with the words "Director Approved" and Quentin Tarantino's scribled signature. There's also a magic number on it, "3000017221". This same number is on the same sticker that's on my Jackie Brown Blu-Ray. I must now look for this whenever I buy a Tarantino Blu-ray release because without it I won't be sure of what I'm getting.

Apparently, someone in marketing thinks spending money on stickers will entice someone to buy the Blu-Ray. Even though the average person will likely ignore them or peel them off and damage their cover in the process.

In light of a great movie, I feel the release is somewhat lackluster in it's presentation, especially compared to the Collector's Editon DVD released in 2002:  <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000068DBC">Pulp Fiction (Two-Disc Collector's Edition)</a>

It would be nice if attention were paid to these types of details so that collectors and fans of film would have something more substantial to show for their money than a Shiny disc and a translucent blu-ray case with recycle arrows carved out of it. Boring shiny discs can be rented using any number of online or local rental options. Were they to make the experience of purchasing Blu-Ray disc a little more special, more people might be inclined to purchase more movies to add to their collections.