William Wellman, director of WINGS, was himself a pilot in World War I, part of the large group of Americans who joined the French Army (Foreign Legion), before America entered World War I, becoming a member of the "Lafayette Flying Corps".  Flying in SPA87 (the Black Cat Group), not the Escadrille Lafayette, he was known as "Wild Bill" Wellman.  He would bag three confirmed kills, and five "probables", before being shot down himself, in March 1918.  Although he was not a member of the fabled group known as the Lafayette Escadrille, he was a member of the group of Americans who answered the call to arms and served with distinction in that bloody, often horrific, conflict.  Wellman knew the story of those fliers first hand, and tried to tell their story in ways never tried before on film.  When WINGS was unveiled, it ushered in a new genre.

Although he briefly tried acting, William Wellman, was never comfortable on the wrong side of the camera.  He quickly turned to work behind the camera, rising to director in short order.  Wellman helped fellow aviator Ted Parsons, an actual member of the fabled Lafayette Escadrille, get his start in Hollywood, in much the way Doug Fairbanks had fostered him.  Parsons was most likely one of the pilots floating around the perimeter of the dogfights in WINGS--he lived in Hollywood at the time, and served as technical advisor on many aeronautical pictures from 1926 to 1934.  Parsons served as the aeronautical advisor on Howard Hughes' HELL'S ANGELS for three years, playing the part of a German aviator on camera.  Ironically, Parsons would become an Admiral in WW2!

Only a small number of American pilots (two of whom were not born in America) were in the Lafayette Escadrille, 40 or fewer, depending on how one determines the count.  One member of the squadron basically served only to wreck or otherwise ruin aircraft, another was a pathological liar, and perhaps thief, while a third was "attached" to the unit, but not actually a member, serving as an inspiration and example.  Wellman , like Parsons, elected to stay in French service, rather than transferring to one of the nascent American units.  WINGS would be Wellman's labor of love, and paean to those glorious young men in their deadly flying machines.  He recognized it was an era never to return, a time when chivalry in the air was common among the practitioners of death on wings, who were daily faced with the horrible ways a man could die, either from falling from great heights or, even worse, burning to death on the way down!

Each morning, these gallant young men climbed into their fragile machines, with only the most basic controls, flying out to seek an enemy charged with the same brutal task.  These aviators flew at heights from one to two miles above their stalemated armies' trenches, in freezing temperatures, without any of the creature comforts taken for granted today in even the most basic of airplanes.  Wellman knew first-hand the terrors, challenges, heroics and accomplishments of those flyers, and wanted to use the new (to him) medium of film to preserve his own memories and experiences, as well as to honor those who fell in battle.

WINGS is part love-letter, part diary, part compendium and wholly an American view of the war.  While France, England and Germany, as well as Belgium and Austria, actually experienced war at first-hand, in visceral and unavoidable ways; the US has still never experienced any war in that way, excepting our own Revolution, War of 1812 and the bloody Civil War that certainly approximated and anticipated the bloodbath to come with the turn of the 20th Century.  Thus, for Americans of the teens and twenties, who were essentially made up Wellman's audience, WWI was something removed and distant, something that fostered incredible change in American lives, for the better, without the turmoil, loss and chaos Europeans knew it to be.

Undoubtedly, for that reason, Wellman crafted a picture that spoke to his audience, better than any of his predecessors (with the possible exception of D W Griffith) or his contemporaries.  He would be copied, blatantly, and emulated in myriads of ways, as are most trailblazers.  WINGS would set the standard for aviation films of the future, setting the bar higher than anyone had previously, creating a new genre.  In a way, it was the STAR WARS of its time, and for that reason, it was the walk-off winner of the original "Oscars" presentation, however you slice the actual presentation.

Howard Hughes worked on HELL'S ANGELS for nearly 3 years, attempting to top Wellman.  In one way he did, because the dogfight scenes in HELL'S ANGELS are breathtaking in their composition, and realistic to a fault in their execution (3 stunt pilots lost their lives filming them), but he failed, also, because he was following in Wellman's footsteps, not carving his own in a new direction.  Hughes' decision to restart filming, to take advantage of sound, was the right decision to make, because he was then able to release the FIRST talking aviation film, allowing him to at least equal Wellman in that manner.

The book for HELL'S ANGELS wasn't much better, if at all, than the screenplay for WINGS; neither set any marks for their scripts, unfortunately.  However, in defense, WINGS was conceived at a time when sound wasn't an option for films yet, although several studios had been working on it.  HELL'S ANGELS was initially conceived as a silent film also, but the advent of sound changed that almost overnight.  Unfortunately, for the film, the craft was still too new for any then-working screenwriter (and Hughes would not have even talked to anyone without credits to offer) to know how to incorporate dialog in such a visual medium.  Game, match, set for Wellman, by default.

It is also telling that Wellman would go on to be one of the most reliable, prolific and consistent Hollywood directors of his era, despite his rough, bluff, macho man persona rubbing many the wrong way.  WINGS would be his 13th directing job (after he took over on a single-reeler, "The Twins of Suffering Creek"); five years later, he would help make a star of Jimmy Cagney, in "THE PUBLIC ENEMY", Cagney's fourth outing and first lead.  By the time Wellman made the original A STAR IS BORN, he was a force majeure in Tinseltown, calling his own shots making films his way.  He was, perhaps, the first auteur, a term that has been wildly popular for at least the last four decades.

Ironically, William Wellman's last film would be the execrable LAFAYETTE ESCADRILLE, supposedly a film to honor the heroes of his youth, the real templates for his first aviation movie, WINGS; however, by the time all the thumbs were stuck into that turkey-pot-pie, it was hard to see the lean, romantic reality that had given birth to it in the first place.  The only redeeming quality one could give to it would be the introduction of Clint Eastwood , a young, very photogenic young man, recently returned from action in Korea, as Wellman himself had, 40 years earlier.  Clint had played several "uncredited" roles, and a number of TV roles, a part in a "Francis the talking mule" movie, another alongside future Marshal Dillon pal, James Arness, but this would be his 1st role in a high-budget, highly anticipated film.  It's just too bad it had to be LE.

By the time of LAFAYETTE ESCADRILLE, though, in 1958 William Wellman was 62 and had 83 films to his credit, some of the most important films of the period.  He had made every kind of film, from comedy to drama, war films on the ground and in the air.  He was enraged that Warner Brothers, by their inept and disrespectful tinkering with his film, had turned his vision into a laughingstock of film-making.  He retired and put Hollywood in his rear-view mirror.  Although the DGA honored him with a Lifetime Achievement Award in 1973, William Wellman has been ignored and overlooked, in the succeeding years, the mainstream film community ignoring his monumental accomplishments and many masterful pictures.

About actors, Wellman famously said, "I couldn't stand being an actor. I haven't liked many actors anyway, and I've directed most of them. One of my sons is an actor and it breaks my heart, but there's nothing I can do about it."  He also, presciently, offered, "When I made THE PUBLIC ENEMY, I was way ahead in thinking. No love story, but loaded with sex and violence."  No one ever said, about William Wellman that he hid his light under a bushel.  No one who would get into a canvas crate, day after day, to fly up to 7,500 feet in freezing cold air, and look for any fight he could find, would ever think he shouldn't speak his mind.

WINGS, then, was the first of his oeuvres, not perfect, but perfectly conceived, cast in Wellman's undeniable mold.  It is unmistakably one of film`s first epics.  The film's shortcomings, in both script and execution, are not merely flaws; they are parts of Wellman's experience curve, as he learned to control his craft, a double entendre because a craft is both something one flies, and something one plies.  William Wellman flew his aircraft in the skies over France, with other steely young men like himself, then came home to ply his craft in the battlefields of Hollywood.  As any veteran of both can attest, the dangers found in the skies of France pale when compared with those found in the studios scattered throughout the Hollywood hills.  William Wellman mastered those dangers, too, reigning as the "ace" of Hollywood, for three decades, before he tired of the eternal in-fighting, politics and bickering, retiring instead to his Brentwood home for the remainder of his years.