This is an interesting Paramount Home Video release.
The packaging and extras are an exceptional cross section of materials
presented for their historical value of interest to anyone
that was not there during the original release cycle of the film between 1956-1960.
The content of the DVDs is not new and is the same as issued five (5) years ago.
Short comings:
 The replica tablets are a tad smaller in length than the original.
 There is no isolated music tracks.
 A few 35mm VistaVision frames from the film should have been included.
 A copy of the original Dot monophonic music score of 1956 on CD.
 Note: Not asking for much am I. Laughing Out Loud. Next time a company
 should consult me before attempting an ultimate DVD release.
Big short coming:
 The video transfer compared to the previous releases is inferior in color and slighty darker. Do a video capture of the 2006 and 2011 main title and notice the
lack of color in the decoratation design surrounding the two Ts and C on The Ten Commandments. The earlier transfers come closest to the 35mm VistaVision Technicolor
footage I have as a reference copy. Also, the DVD trailer on Amazon shows a comparison of original and restored footage. I never saw any previous VHS, Beta, CED, Laser, VCD or DVD that had any footage like what is shown as the washed out "original" footage presented. The title card for the Entr'acte has been changed but not the music to the original two stage horn introduction before full orchestra
begins. Unfortunately, restoration credits are given at the beginning of the Exit Music.These should have been only as liner notes in the package thus keeping the close original integrity of the film intact.
Worst feature:
 The mediocre ramblings of by Katherine Orrison, author of "Written in Stone: Making Cecil B. DeMille's Epic, The Ten Commandments," as commentary, Skip this and go find a copy of "The Autobiography of Cecil B. DeMille" (Prentice Hall 1959) and "Moses and Egypt: The Documentation to the Motion Picture 'The Ten Commandments'" by Henry S. Noerdlinger (University of Southern California Press 1956).
All in all, this is an good DVD set to own for the historical extras, but not the videos.