This movie is a masterpiece! I first saw it by accident on HBO and after that I HAD TO BUY IT!!! Ive never seen a movie that could cause such an impact in me. I mean it reallly changed the way I think.

The acting was exelent! I really thought they were disabled and that they were actually going through the situations in the movie because there is such an emotion in the main character's eyes that makes you feel what theyre feeling. The script and story was so realistic and strong i don't have enough words to describe it. this movie made me laugh out loud and cry a lot! Its so funny and at the same time serious. This film was greatly directed too. I think that with a bigger budget and publicity this movie coulve won an oscar!

The story is about:
Two guys facing more challenges than most people, learn some valuable lessons about life and love in this comedy drama. Michael Connolly (Steven Robertson) is a young man in his early twenties who suffers from cerebral palsy; confined to a wheelchair, Michael's speech is unintelligible to all but a handful of people, and his situation has made him shy and withdrawn as he spends his days at a home for the disabled in Dublin. One day, a new arrival moves in at the home -- Rory O'Shea (James McAvoy), a lad about Michael's age who suffers from muscular dystrophy and can only use two fingers on one hand. This, however, hasn't stopped Rory from developing a sharp tongue, a quick wit, a taste for alcohol, and the courage to put the moves on any women who crosses his path. Rory can also understand Michael's attempts at speech, and Rory puts his outsized personality to work encouraging his new friend to become more outgoing and not to let life pass him by, despite his handicaps. In time, Rory and Michael are able to convince Eileen (Brenda Fricker), director of the home, that they should be allowed to get an apartment on their own, and the boys use their stipend to rent a flat and hire an assistant to help with the tasks they can't manage.  Rory chooses Siobhan (Romola Garai) for the job, mainly because she's blonde and pretty, and she soon becomes attracted to him; unfortunately, Michael has fallen in love with her, and this leads to a major rift between him and Rory that drives them apart.  Screened in the United Kingdom as Inside I'm Dancing and in the United States as Rory O'Shea Was Here, the film won the Audience Award at the 2004 Edinburgh Film Festival. (~ Mark Deming, All Movie Guide)

I HIGHLY RECOMEND THIS MOVIE!!! ITS AN AWESOME COMBINATION OF COMEDY AND DRAMA THAT WILL TOUCH YOUR HEART.

But Rory O'shea was here is not only an entertaining movie to watch. This film has a strong message of not giving up, you will always find rocks in your path but you need to overcome them to be succesful. Life is not fair, and it ain't easy either but just look at how Rory and Michael fight for their happiness against all odds. All my problems seem insignificant when I look at what Rory and Michael had to face.
Another important message the movie has is about the disabled people in our society and the need they have to feel equal because they are and we dont always treat them like they deserve to be treated.

I could keep writing pages and pages of this film cause I loved it and I think its an excellent work in every possible aspect. This is a MUST SEE and Im sure you will enjoy it as much as I did!