Expectations for many were very higher after they saw the first Matrix film.  I was one of these sheep that was lead to the slaughter.  Matrix 2 cannot be Matrix 1.  What was new in fresh in the first film must inevitable become overblown in the second film.  The film couldn't meet people's expectation, and many criticize the Matrix sequels.  I almost didn't even bother seeing the last film, but after Revolutions redeemed the series and I realized that I didn't give the sequels a proper chance.

The Matrix was an incredible film.  The style and flow of the first movie was amazing.  The story seems fresh in the way it was told, even though it is a science-fiction staple.  Reality and human nature were explored in pop philosophy that even found its way to academia.  Bullet time seemed so original and amazing a concept that just about everyone that saw the movie agreed that it was revolutionary.

In the Matrix Reloaded, the story had to expand from its beginnings.  Now, the viewer is taken to Zion and the real world.  Not that the Matrix itself wasn't important but now our attention is also on this post apocalyptic society.  I don't think anyone I know was impressed with the design of Zion or the people.  The movie fails on a basic level because I think most viewers don't connect at all to Zion.  We know and have strong connections to Morpheous, Neo and Trinity, but these new ideas and characters don't make as big an impact.  Just about ever scene in Zion is ill-conceived.  The council scenes, Morpheous's speech, the rave, etc. are not really all that interesting.  The bigger cast means there is even more chance to have some mediocre actors in the movie and bad dialogue.  Zion fails not only because of design but also these dismal scenes, most of which are not key to the plot but rather, suck up screen time.  In a perfect world, these movies could be re-written and shot and this movie would be much, much better.

Then, you have the person formerly known as Agent Smith, now just Smith and also Bane.  This expansion of his role worked well.  Smith is a great villain and his ability to replicate himself like a virus adds some menace to his character.  Unfortunately, this ability allows for the battle sequences with Neo vs. hundreds of Smiths.  A shorter fight sequence probably would have worked better and been more impressive but it looks like a video game and just puts a drag in the story.

The introduction of non-agent programs in the matrix as sentient beings was a good addition, even better utilized in the last film.  The expansion of the matrix works much better than the inclusion of the real world.  The other agents, particularly the ghostly twins are pretty cool.  The battle sequences that rely more on bullet time, than video game graphics are still pretty good.  The use of melee weapons is pretty good.

The most redeeming and worthwhile part of the film is of course the highway chase.  Great effects and huge suspense.  It is beautiful if chaos/ action sequences can be called such.

The scene with the Architect is slightly confusing.  After a second viewing it makes more sense though.  It does tie everything, Matrix, Zion and the rest of the world in perspective.  I did like the scene in general, but like all the films the dialogue could use some touching up.

Most action movies don't win acting awards or script awards, and you don't expect anything amazing from these sort of films.  But there is a level of what is acceptable and what is really bad, and actually all the Matrix films walk a fine line between the two.

The philosophical aspects of the series are not as profound or evident in this particular movie.  This movie out of all three seems the most pretentious and hits a kind of hollow note.  That's why this movie alone is not that amazing.  As part of the whole story it comes out looking much better.  The story set up in Matrix Reloaded is followed up very well in Revolutions, and IMO the series has a strong finish.