Director Kenji Mizoguchi once dropped his shirt and exposed his back to a colleague. There were two scars that were the result of razor slashes. He got it from a prostitute he was seeing. Mizoguchi said, "you see these? Until you get them, you are not allowed to make any movies about women."

Mizoguchi combines his lifelong focus on the theme of women's plight, with fantastic photography and top-shelf acting in this dazzling film of sheer cinematic craft.

Not a single frame is wasted. If you randomly picked any scene from the movie, the composition will be classically proportioned. Negative space is gorgeously balanced to a T and the lighting is absolutely iridescent. Sansho is a two-hour seminar on photographic composition. With each scene, I asked myself, "How long can Kazuo Miyagawa (cinematographer) keep this up? Nobody can be that good consistently!"

I stand corrected. Up until the final frame, every shot is spectacularly composed.

The story is about a family split up by vicissitudes and crooked people. Armed with only a two-sentence precept, a child must endure a life of slavery and cruelty before he attempts escape in order to re-unite his once noble family. The humane story is beautifully acted, reaching a level of conviction that one almost feels it's a real life consequence. The speech when Yoshiaki Hanayagi announces the end of slavery in the compound is so intense, you feel the madness radiating off the screen where human beings are indentured in chains. Mizoguchi's indigenous Japanese style shines under his always sympathetic narrative of women's condition in olden times.

One of the handful of movies that actually brought tears to my eyes. As the classical motif of a woman singing a plaintive chant, longing to be reunited with loved ones is an often repeated image in Japanese folk music.  Also for me, there is no message greater than the one presented here: the importance of the humane act as a moral code of conduct.

Watching this movie just made me more painfully aware of the sad fact that once there existed a society that made such carefully crafted films, and after all these decade, all these technological leaps, and all the human inflicted atrocities we have seen, that craft is all but lost in the loud bombastic CGI-manipulated special effects of Hollywood creations.