I was a gawky twelve-year old when this movie was released in 1996. I was negotiating for the first time the treacherous battlefield of middle school hallways: the gossip, the insecurity, and the foreign sensations, the blushing flush of first infatuations. It was a perfect time for me to see this movie. I remember the breathless trailers. Rat-a-tat shots of gang gunplay, adolescent romance, bright colors, and explosions, all backed by a pounding, bass-heavy soundtrack. Suddenly the old Bard of Avon seemed cool.

The theater was packed when I went. I recognized some kids from my school. The median age was probably 16. The lights dimmed. The screen flickered. The movie started. And off we went. Here was a world we recognized, a garish world of guns, trendy fashions, and solipsistic teenagers scribbling poetry in their notebooks. The audience snickered with recognition at Romeo's poolside pleading to Juliet, "Wilst thou leave me so unsatisfied?" And Juliet's retort, "What satisfaction canst thou have tonight?" Gunplay and drug use and raging hormones. Well meaning adults and over-possessive parents. It was so familiar, but heightened, transfused into grand opera.

I'm no longer the wide-eyed innocent thrilling to Radiohead b-sides and drooling over Claire Danes (okay, not quite true). So how does the movie hold up? I'll be honest: I can't quite dissociate myself from the movie's nostalgic associations. But I'll try and be objective.

What holds up surprisingly well are the performances. The supporting cast is filled out nicely with well-cast veterans and some fresh-faced newcomers. I love John Leguizamo's cocksure Tybalt, all pointy teeth and resin-lined voice. Harold Perrineau (now I can't help but see Michael from LOST!) is a surprisingly affecting as the cross-dressing, drug-dealing misfit, Mercutio. He feeds Romeo a suspicious looking pill (ecstasy? acid?) before the Capulet party, and the results are appropriately trippy.

Pete Posthlewaite as Friar Laurence possesses the kind of natural ease with the dialogue that suggests many years of hard-won training on the boards. He wraps his lips around Shakespeare's Gordian knotted language as easily as if he were reading a grocery list--and with a put-on American accent!

Since this film DiCaprio has proven himself a worldwide mega-star, headlining such moneymaking behemoths as Titanic and The Departed. Here he captures the passion, the poetry, and the primal rage that imprison Romeo at any given moment. He's a slave to his emotions. He spends his time scrawling poetry in little black books and looking fashionably disaffected. He drops Rosalind in an instant after a one-time encounter with Juliet. He kills Juliet's kin, Tybalt, to revenge his friend's death, his face twisted into a terrible mask of rage. Later, after exile, he dies by his own hand thinking Juliet dead.

Ah, Juliet. Claire Danes. Okay, here's where the objectivity becomes difficult. She seemed like the epitome of mysterious older girl sensuality to me when I first saw this movie and now I'm writing from the perspective of someone a few years her senior when she made this movie. Hindsight shows that she doesn't have quite the same grasp and fluidity with the words DiCaprio possesses. What she does have is a winning smile and angelic features and an almost painful sincerity that broke so many hearts on the popular MTV program, "My So-Called Life."

I believe the Bard himself would like this movie. It has the spirit of the play--the tempestuous first love, the overbearing parents, the head-on collision with fate. It's aggressive and passionate and full of tumbling forward-moving energy. "Vitality" is the word Harold Bloom uses to summarize Shakespeare's enduring popularity and I think the adjective applies here. Luhrmann understands that the generation-spanning attraction to Shakespeare isn't always his words, strictly speaking, but rather the intensity and the passion that the words emote. We all know what it's like to be young and in love. Shakespeare gives words to those feelings. And they happen to be better written words than any others in the history of the English language. So what's lost here is the purity of the poetry, but what's gained is a new generations of kids saying, "Maybe Shakespeare isn't so bad, after all." They'll discover the poetry in time.