Roger Moore is James Bond in Diamonds Are Forever!  Oops wrong movie, Moore actually debuts in the next one.  But think about this for a second.  Doesn't this movie come off like a Roger Moore Bond.  Here we have Sean Connery, who skipped OHMSS and did this one instead.  Why?  I bet you that if Connery had made OHMSS his last film, he would have been great.  Alas he never did, and his swan song from the EON produced Bond films is this ghastly entry.
That's not to say that this film doesn't have it's perks.  It just doesn't have enough.  So before I go over the negatives, let's review the postives.  Blofeld in Drag.  Now that's comedy.  The fact that the villian has to diguise himself in drag to escape the authorities in ingenious.  Second, the gay hitman duo.  Homosexuality issues aside, they did make an interesting pair of killers and brought some much needed change in the overall hetero world of James Bond.  Today and perhaps then as well it might be seen as demeaning, but I bet you it was a lot harder to sell that idea then, then now.  And Jimmy Dean, the sausage King, playing Howard Hughes.  Can't say anything more about that except, whoa!
Okay the bad stuff.  Sean Connery, who appears to have a slight weight problem, plays Bond like a fop.  A sort of aging Playboy who appears just a tad clueless.  Kind of the way that Roger Moore would play him later.  Jill St. John being first runner-up for woman-most-likely-seen-as-an-embarrasment-for-women-all-over-the-world.  (The actual honor of that award goes to Britt Ekland in Man with the Golden Gun)  Man she wasn't bad to look at but she was a stupid character.  The special effects are the most awful I have ever seen.  The rumor is, is that Sean Connery costs so much for the producers to get to make this one film that they had to skimp on the FX.  Well it shows.  The last thing that this Bond does awfully bad is try to mimic Goldfinger.  Now Diamonds is actually a sequel to Goldfinger in the books, with the enemy being Goldfinger's twin brother.  But they decide to change the whole story around and at the sametime redo Goldfinger and they just don't do it.  It's more an awful mess.
I liked Sean Connery.  He played Bond, in the 60's anyway, as the quintesential English gentlemen, with a little rough edge to him.  But when he took a break and came back, he looked like an old man trying to relive his glory daze.  He should not have come back.  But what are you gonna do.