For those of you sci-fi(or old Dr. Who) fans who tried watching but didn't like the show, or lost interest in the show after the 2005 premeire, this is nearly a completely different production.  The production quality, writing, casting and directing is far and away at a higher calibre, and with this past series, is not only maintaining its momentum, but is getting better.  Not to say that the show in the past was poor, it was definately watchable.  But inarguable is that the quality has changed for the better in all aspects.  Many long time fans of the show, however, are not into the darker look and tone it has taken on.  As a show marketed toward children, it is a bit scary, and touches on adult issues like morality, mortality, and sexuality in such a way as to make them more weighty than in the past.

Not that this is necessarily a bad thing, but most children I know who watched the first two parter of this series, "The Impossible Astronoaut" and "The Day of the Moon" said it was a bit too scary, but were terribly interested to know what happens in the end!  I would say for the very young, or sensitive child you watch it first just to make sure, I am to the point where I have to take my neice to a film shoot so she can see that the monsters are really people wearing suits--while with the classic Who that fact was terribly obvious!

But, perhaps the fact that in the US this would NEVER be talked of as a show for children at all is indicative of our culture's problems with respecting children, and understanding that serious things do interest them, just like us adults.  That they also will appreciate quality, well written and well produced television just as any adult does.

As a note, for those that have caught this show only on BBC America broadcasts, the overall quality of the episodes is far better on the DVDs. For the discriminating veiwer, when the episodes are cut for the shorter US airtime and commercial breaks, the pacing and editing are different enough to notice.  Not to mention the commercial interruptions that are not present in its intended veiwing experience.