"Groundhog Day" is a movie that's aged really well in the past nine years, and I think will be looked back on as a classic comedy in a few decades.  Using a relatively simple plot device (Bill Murray's arrogant, pesudocosmpolitan character living the same day over and over in a small Midwestern town), Harold Ramis created a silly, sweet, touching romantic comedy that is endlessly rewatchable.
That said, though, I would've expected a great deal more from a 'Special Edition' of such a well-loved movie.  The main differences between this release and the original DVD release of a few years ago are the addition of a commentary track by Harold Ramis and a half-hour or so behind-the-scenes documentary.  The menus are also now animated and there are a few filmographies and trailers for other movies added, but these hardly help with the "Special Edition" status the disc is given.  The commentary track gives some interesting info on the movie, but Ramis spends a lot of time talking about the background actors and eventually wears a bit thin on the anecdotes.  If they could have gotten Bill Murray or Chris Elliott (or even Stephen Tobolowsky) to do the commentary track with him, it would've covered over a lot of the silences and helped with the narrative style, which Ramis keeps very light.  Nonetheless, Ramis's fondness for the movie comes out quite cleary, and he's still fun to listen to.  The documentary falls a bit flat in that in covers much of the same ground as the commentary track.  Save the few behind-the-scenes photos and outtakes, there's little there that Ramis doesn't discuss in his commentary.  Even more disappointing is that both refer to scenes that were shot and not used that do not appear in a 'Deleted Scenes' section.
If you liked the movie, but haven't picked the DVD up yet, I recommend getting this version over the original release.  If you already own the original DVD, though, there's little reason to pick this one up unless you're a huge fan of the movie.  I, for one, hope they eventually release a true 'Special Edition' with deleted scenes, press materials, the script (both Danny Rubin's original and with Ramis's revisions) and everything else we've come to expect from truly first-rate 'Special Editions' - which this one sadly isn't.