Mask of the Phantasm is an on-film example of what not only the movie franchise, which was terribly ruined by Joel Shumacher, could have done with the character, but of how much better the 1990's Animated Series, good as it was anyways, could have been if it was scheduled in prime time instead of during the Kid's Hour. Don't get me wrong; the show went further then then any other long-running animated series yet has (with the possible exception of The Transformers back in the 80's) in terms of skimming close to adult level sophistication and dialogue. Still, this film shows how much better still the Animated Series could have captured the essence of the comic book Dark Knight if American adult audiences were more accepting of animated shows that were not purely idiotic sitcom fare (i.e., The Simpsons, Family Guy, Futurama, etc., ad nauseum). Unfortunately, for any super-hero series to get done, it has to be made 'kid-friendly' and put on Saturday or Sunday mornings, or weekday afternoons, in order to get a chance at the small screen (with the only few exceptions being MTV's Aeon Flux and HBO's Spawn, though these weren't really marketed for a mass audience, which may have contributed to their short life spans despite their success). This is quite unfortunate. What is also unfortunate is that no more Batman animated movies are likely to get onto the big screen after the very undeserved failure of this one, simply because audiences couldn't be bothered with going to see a 'serious' animated movie, unless it was a 'family-friendly' Disney epic. Thus, successive entries in the direct-to-video slot like Sub-Zero were made in the same mold as the series was, and was not given the PG rating that Mask of the Phantasm was awarded. WB has not yet attempted to snare the adult audience whose attention it caught with its super-hero shows of the 90's, and the failure of this one attempt to do so makes the odds of successive efforts in the future dim. I am hoping that a good deal of direct to video support of this film will get us more PG rated animated Batman movies from WB now that the TV series has apparantly run its course for good thanks to, of all things, the success of Batman Beyond, more's the pity. This big screen treatment of the Dark Knight was even closer to the great comic book version in tone, sophistication, action sequences and dark film noir then the animated TV series. The origin of Batman was told in a manner that could not have been conveyed on the more 'kid-friendly' TV version. The Joker was here in all of his insane glory, and we were now able to see him at his peak of homicidal brutality, which was especially welcome since we were not allowed to see the Clown Prince of Crime kill anyone on the TV series, which took away his most distinctive, if chilling, attribute. Finally, we got to see his twisted schemes cause people to buy the farm, including the use of his trademark 'smile venom', even if the filmmakers made sure that only other gangsters were his victims here. No longer did viewers have the comfort of knowing that all people onscreen would be inevitably saved from death by the Dark Knight that we were guaranteed in the TV series thanks to network restrictions for kid shows. The Phantasm was a way cool new anti-hero who seems to have been inspired by the brutal vigilante known as the Reaper from the Batman: Year Two comic book storyline, but with even more spectral aspects added (although the Reaper didn't turn out to be...well, I won't spoil things for those who haven't seen this great animated film yet). The dialogue, storyline and onscreen pathos were great. Also, a surprising amount of blood was seen in this film, even for a PG-rated movie, which was in stark contrast to the only occasional blood allowed for the TV series. This virtually unrestrained ability to show blood and death may turn off some parents, but was much more attuned to the type of serious crime drama and psychological thriller that the Batman character most logically embodies. However, no expletives at all were used in the film, not even minor ones; this silliness was in tune with a criticism I once heard of the original 1931 version of Scarface, in which the original filmmakers were allowed to show tons of brutal gangland murders, but no character in the movie was allowed to say anything as "horrible" as "damn" or "hell" (even though the Al Pacino remake more then made up for the loss of strong language in the original). This is no biggie, however; a lack of unrealistic language didn't destroy tons of good storytelling and realistic action. The scenes of Bruce Wayne attempting to fight crime before taking on the Batman moniker, when he was totally wet behind the ears as a vigilante, was also a welcome change that cemented into our heads the fact that Batman is a very human being under the suit that didn't become the master crimefighter that he is overnight.  I highly recommend this film to all diehard Batman fans, even those who may not have religiously followed the Animated Series for whatever reason (lot's of American adults just seem to have a bias against any film or show that is animated since we are so socially conditioned to think that anything animated is automatic kiddie fare despite a decade of The Simpsons and its numerous prime time offspring, both good and bad). Any action or martial arts fan will also like this movie, as well as fans of Japanese anime, especially of the Street Fighter animated episodes from Japan. In short, if you like Batman, action flicks or anime, you will love Mask of the Phantasm. As stated above, this film is also heartily recommended if you are simply curious to see what the series could have been like if aired in prime time for a more adult audience.  Kudos to WB for making this bold attempt, even if this particular one didn't work out as well as they hoped. I am hoping they will learn from the previous, if short-term, successes, of Aeon Flux and Spawn that there may indeed be a market for more adult super-hero/action fare if only they will someday take another chance with this largely untapped genre in America.