This is an outstanding collection.  If your a science fiction fan then you must get this collection, PERIOD!!  Any DVD collection would not be complete without it.  Of course some of the films are stronger than others.  But as a whole, please show any sequel movies as strong as these.  For that matter show me and four movies based on the same story and theme which have held up as stong as these four.  
Not only are these films classics, but there arguably the best Science Fiction films ever made. The only other Sci-Fi films which reach this calibur are 'Empire Strikes Back', 'Close Encounters of the Third Kind', '2001', 'and maybe Dark Star'.
Well may dark star can be excluded from this list, but there is no arguing it's the best cult Sci-Fi film ever made.  John Carpenter and all of the other people involved with 'Dark Star' went on to contribute to these great epic science fiction films which I've listed above.  If you get a chance, I would highly recomend watching 'Dark Star' just for the sake of the ideas and what it might have been with a better budget and a little cleaned up.  I would think this would be the ultimate remake if done properly with a better script, changed and add some elements to the plot, and with a grand budget.  There are some awesome ideas put into this Lo-Sci-Fi thriller.  Plus you'll get a few kicks out of it.  This was John Carpenter's first film and of course we know where he went from here.
I must add that Alien 3 is one of the most underated films ever made.  I think this holds up just as well, or even stronger in  certains ways than the first two.  I love the way David Fincher Directs.  From here he went on to make Fight Club, Seven, ECT... From this stand point you should watch it now with a sense of how David Fincher makes his films.  Dark, Doomed, and untimatelly down right depressing.  I think its a great film which was done wonderfully.  If anything else respect it for its artistic quality.  You might not like the plot, you might not like the characters, but there is no denying its a film which holds up as strongs as the first two.  The only thing this film doesnt have is the massess backing it because it wasnt what they expected, or not what they wanted in the next film.