I was with my wife's family on a weekend away, when her sister said, "OK! Everyone in the T-V room to watch a movie I loved!" That was it for me. I begged off saying I was engrossed in my book. Any recommendations from my sister-in-law have universally been in the "You must be kidding!" range. An hour later, I ambled into the room and watched the last hour of A good Year. Then I borrowed it and watched it again at least ten times!

I could tell you the entire story and the film would not be spoiled. But I'll be good and only tell you a little here and there and let you savor it as it develops. Russell Crowe plays Maximillian as an adult and Freddy Highmore plays him as a lad in Provence when he spends summers with his uncle, Albert Finney. As a grown up, Max is a London Bond trader and he makes money. As a boy, you watch him develop into the man. There are women to tempt the uncle; girls to tempt the boy; Wine to enamor them both and France for them to truly love.

So this is a love story. It tells of Max's boyhood in which he is too young to know love; his manhood when he is too wrapped in money to understand love; and his survival when love is revealed to him in all its manifestations.

Is it funny? Yes. Is it a bit over the top? Not for me! Were all the actors and actresses great? Without question. Did everyone love this film? Not by a long shot. Why not? They viewed it at a moment in their lives when the idea of love could not take them by the hair and shake them and say, "Look you fool! This is what it's all about!"

It is what it's all about and getting to that realization makes for a wonderful film.

Almost the last paragraph, I promise~! Maximillian the boy is playing chess with his uncle on the verandah of the chateau in Provence. The uncle goes into the house to get a bottle of wine and two glasses (Young Maximillian is perhaps 12 at this juncture. As the uncle fiddles just inside the house with the wine, Max gets the cigar his uncle has been smoking and sticks it in his mouth. He checks his uncle out in the house and readjusts the board when he sees that the uncle is busy. But the uncle has seen this bit of chicanery! He comes out with the wine and says to Max, "Tell me, Max. Have I ever told you why I love wine? It is because when you put it in your mouth it always tells you the truth. It cannot lie." And he goes on to elaborate on this theme. When he is through he asks: "Now Max. Now that I've told you why I love wine, is there anything you have to say to me?" Young Max looks at his uncle, smiles, moves a piece on the chess board and says, "Yes, uncle. Check mate!" And the uncle looks at him and the board and says, "You little sh_t!"

There's more. Much more!