I had not bothered to check the reviews here at Amazon before I invested two hours in watching this thing. Wish I had. Could have read a book instead. Or cleaned the garage. But I bought into all the Academy Award hype over it and was blindsided. What a waste of time.

After a very slooooooow, tedious start and about 15 minutes into it, I eventually figured out that the storyline was going to be a series of flashbacks as almost random filler to an invented story devoting most of its duration to showing Margaret Thatcher as a senile old woman, engaging in numerous conversations with her deceased husband. Those flashbacks occurred so randomly, I was not even clear as to whether those conversations were with the living or with the deceased Mr. Thatcher.  The timeline seemed haphazard and, even for someone like me who was living and aware during the Thatcher years, it was certainly confusing. This movie should never be used as remotely presenting historical fact.

A movie about a public figure should be about that persons public life and importance to their country and the world, possibly extended with private struggles that took place during the period of service if there is some justifiable significance. However, that person's private retirement is irrelevant. Further, a movie about the tragedy of dementia should have some sort of social significance and learning value. This one fails on both counts.

The film is not totally without its merits. Yes, in her lucid scenes Lady Thatcher is shown as a woman of principle, determination, courage and will of iron as the title suggests. But those are limited and serve just as interrupters to all the crazy scenes. Yes, Merrill Streep's acting is superb. She captures the Lady's character and presence amazingly well. Those strengths, however, cannot sufficiently offset a bizarre plot, a dismal made-up script, excessive flip-flopping, incorporation of stale file footage from the 80's and overall dull movie. A sadly missed opportunity. One star from me. Read a book instead.