Well I guess I should start off this review by clarifying for the record that I wasn't even a gleam in anyone's eyes when this classic TV series was even on the air. However, I do recall my parents talking about it from time-to-time when I was little. I had never seen an episode of this show before I got this boxed set and was anxious to check it out, and I wasn't disappointed.

Okay let's get started here with my first and only complaint with this boxed set, and that is with the way the DVD's are packaged in the box. They are basically stored in the box by sliding them into a slit in the cardboard holders, which by its very nature means that the DVD's are going to be more prone to scratches than if they were stored in the traditional way with a center hub to hold them securely with no "sliding" whatsoever. When I first opened the box, two of the five discs fell out when I unfolded the folder and another one wasn't even in its slot and I barely caught it before it hit the floor. Not a very good start, but fortunately they didn't break and didn't have any visible scratches on them. And now on with the great...

I found the Memories Book to be really fun and showed a wide array of pictures celebrating different moments in the show. It would have been an added bonus if they would have had a little bit of detailed text describing some of the photographs, but it doesn't deter at all from the fun this added bonus is.

The shows themselves are classics and showcase the most loved shows from the entire 2,543 shows that comprised the entire Howdy Doody show. I found myself totally enthralled with the devotion and love shown to this rather odd looking puppet and the sheer magnetism that he had over young and old alike.

I can only imagine what it must have been like to be a small child and sitting and watching this show, let alone being one of the lucky ones to be in the "Peanut Gallery." But I can say that I think I found a small part of me that has an inkling of what it was like and I decided I would create my own "Peanut Gallery" with me and my cat every time that I put a DVD in and wisk myself away to a simpler and perhaps better time.

The bonus disc really has some great material on it as well and really adds to an already terrific boxed set.

Shawn Kovacich
HUGE Movie and Classic TV Fan