After the first two stunning Bourne instalments everyone wanted to know if the conclusion would be just as good.  Well it has surpassed my expectations and once again pushed the bar much higher in this genre.  Right from the start the pace is fast, as though you are carrying on watching the second film.

The one criticism I have of the early part is the meeting at Langley between Pamela Landy and CIA Director Ezra Kramer discussing Jason Bourne.  Considering what happens later on in this film I felt that this should have been much more edgier.  I would have expected Kramer to put Landy on the back foot over Bourne and making it clear that she hadn't covered herself with glory over the affair. That would have made  Landy later in the film being shipped off to CIA Deputy Director Noah Vosen's shady operations much more understandable.  Similarly the DVD deleted scenes includes one where Kramer appears before a Senate Select Committee and this really should have been in the film to set out Kramer's character more fully.

The confrontations Jason Bourne becomes involved with in this film are powerful though.  You get to understand just how good he is and why the CIA absolutely fear this man.  The Treadstone operation put every effort into the development of this asset and their constant nightmare was Bourne on the loose.  Men and women in the CIA who would normally take the tightest situations in their stride suffer uncharacteristic failures when Bourne's rampaging around the world.

My favourite parts of this movie are the fight between Jason Bourne and Desh Bouksani, absolutely stunning.  The speed of these two is breathtaking and by the end you too will be breathless.  Also Jason Bournes distraction machinations against Vosen in New York is wonderful and inspired.  I know some feel that Paul Greengrass' in your face action scenes are overdone, but you really do feel that you're right there in the middle of the action and he has perfected this feeling for the viewer in Ultimatum.  Whereas the car chase in Moscow during Supremacy was too long and overdone, things are kept shorter and much better in Ultimatum.

Is there room for more Bourne?  Absolutely! Don't take any notice of those who say that this ties things up nicely and the franchise should be left alone.  Bourne is hot property and he will be back.  The situation surrounding Nicky Parsons is still very much unresolved.  What is it that Jason Bourne doesn't remember?  Has everything rotten in the CIA been resolved now?  I very much doubt that.  I feel that the whole Treadstone/Blackbriar programme runs even deeper and the conspiracy could go much higher.  Has Pamela Landy now crossed those in very high places?  Will there be repercussions for all concerned? We shall see...

I am really pleased with the DVD.  For once most of the deleted scenes, many of which seem to very out of place to the actual cut, don't leave you feeling that they should have been included.  There's a whole long list of features and if you are getting this for the holiday then you will be able to sit back and allow yourself to become completely immersed in the bonus features.

Overall The Bourne Ultimatum is an outstanding film and this is a very pleasing DVD.  Following the release of The Bourne Supremacy other film makers in the action genre realised that they had to raise their game in the post Bourne movie world.  Now with the release of The Bourne Ultimatum those same movie makers must be scratching their heads and wondering if they can really compete in this Bourne again genre!