My 3 biggest problems with this movie:

1.  Unlike "Trekkies", it shatters any sense of objective journalism that would actually make it interesting.  The filmmakers are obviously "Ringers" themselves and made a cheap film to heap praise on the choices they've made in their lives.

The guy doing the street interviews never pressed his subjects about questions normal people might want to know, such as:  "How did you have 6 weeks free of any obligation to stand in line for Star Wars?"  "Why are you dressed like a pirate / Klingon at a Lord of the Rings event?"  "What in your personal life compells you to write sexual fantasy for fictional characters?"

Instead, he just smiles and nods along with their often absurd responses to his softball questions.  That's not to say they shouldn't have these hobbies, but there was no "every man" Han Solo character in this absurd movie.  Unlike "Trekkies", his questions never pressed these people to consider or reveal their life choices, which is what makes these people so compelling in the first place.  It didn't follow any individuals through any sort of a character arc or revelation, getting only snippets of potentially interesting characters who would disappear from the movie the minute they exited the little video confessional booth.  I wanted to know more!!!

2.  The production value was just all over the map.  The silly time-capsule dorm room transition scenes would have made Tolkien throw up, and were lingered on for far too long.  The Mexican-style song about the product tie-ins was just flat-out weird, annoying, and out of context.  The Monty Python-style animation reaked of low budget rather than quirky characterization.

3.  The filmmakers had nowhere near the access necessary to accomplish what they tried to from a historical perspective.  This is evidenced by the lack of access to anyone in the family (I'm assuming the "Chris Tolkien" over-the-shoulder hand shots weren't actually Chris' hands), reuse of the same cut-out photo of J.R.R., dated stock interview footage from LOTR movie publicity events, and the inability to show even one clip or original song from the Rankin and Bass movies.

What they revealed historically was something any casual fan would have picked up years ago, or gotten from a far better PBS historical documentary on Tolkien already made.  What they revealed about the fans was frustratingly limited and gushing with admiration only fellow insiders who "get it" could offer.

On top of all that, the title "Ringers: Lord of the Fans" doesn't even make grammatical sense, seeing as "Lord" is singular and "Ringers" are a collective group.

ALLLLLLLL that said, the subject matter was interesting enough to keep the attention of a more casual LOTR fan such as myself.