It's been some time since I've watched this movie.  I saw it when it originally came out, pretty much went on with life, and recently watched it again 12 years later. Twelve years ago, I don't think it impressed me as much as it did recently.  That's probably because my life has changed, my views on love, and especially my experience in writing fiction. In spite of the recent controversy stirred by the movie Anonymous, one cannot help but honor the true writer of the wonderful works of Shakespeare.

The brilliance behind this movie is that it's about the author who writes the tragedy, while he lives out his own tragedy with the woman he loves. Their love affair ensues and so does the inspiration for William's penning of Romeo and Juliet.  As the story evolves, so does the tragic truth that they will never be together.  He is bound by a previous marriage and lives a life of a lowly playwright and poet, while the woman he loves is bound by the Queen's command and her father to wed another. The stage is set for a love affair that ends in loss and separation. He writes the sad ending to Romeo and Juliet that a man cannot live without the woman he loves, mirroring the pain of his own soul.

When William's play of Romeo and Juliet finally meets the stage, by strange circumstances their lives play out before the audience. Will as Romeo and Viola as Juliet. Their hearts are torn playing their parts, as they both know their lives will be torn asunder as soon as the play ends. Each are forced to follow another path -- two star-crossed lovers never able to have one another just like the tragedy of who they portray on stage.

As far as the rest, I wasn't enthralled with seeing Colin Firth act like a sod. Judy Dench was fine, as usual.  Gwyneth Paltrow and Geoffrey Rush were their usual on film. It seems as if their personalities are always the same no matter what the role. Joseph Fiennes as William Shakespeare was far more believable, I thought. The perfect picture of the tortured writer, searching for his muse, passionate about life and storytelling, and always living life from one extreme of comedy to tragedy. That's the beauty of it all.