The book is a classic and this 1930 film adaptation is as good as the book but maybe even better, because any film is easier and faster to consume than any book.  I read the book first.  THe book is great but if you are short on time or reading skill then by all means just watch the movie and you will get 98% of the story in 10% of the time.

Now about the story:

All Quiet on the Western Front (1930), Original black and white film adaptation, of the book by the German writer Erich Remarque.  This is a fictional story about World War One, told from an ordinary German soldier's perspective -- "a worm's eye view of the battlefield."  Notably, in 1930s Nazi Germany, theater goers who watched this film frequently were sacked afterward by Hitler's Brownshirts who were spying on the theater audiences.  All Quiet was later officially banned from viewing by the German Nazi government, and Nazis also targeted this book for their infamous book burnings.  When an infamous historical figure is known to have hated some literature or film, then it is automatically an excellent thing to go read or watch directly and enjoy, it seems to me.

The story telling technique has some similarities to M. Night Shyamalan's style of plot development such as seen in The Sixth Sense, and I'll call it "everything comes together."  All Quiet seems to wander aimlessly at first.  The final scene makes the plot clear if you haven't figured it out.

Part of what makes certain literature a classic is that there is an abundance of ties to grim reality in the fiction, or in the production of the work, or after its production.  This film for example, demonstrates some of the propaganda techniques that were used by Nazis and the jingoist school faculty on the students at their schools, to motivate them to join the military.

This is an American-produced film, and is actually Hollywood's first full-length non-silent film.  Other films had talking by this time also, but not for the full length of the film.  Remarque was attacked by Hitler's German government for writing this story.  Remarque successfully avoided capture and escaped to America, but unfortunately Remarque's sister was caught and murdered by the German government in retaliation for writing this great war novel.