The Movie:
Following the commercial success of Toy Story, Pixar's first outing into cinema, comes "A Bug's Life." This film, though not as charming as Toy Story, is still wonderfully crafted by the geniuses behind the scenes. The story follows the adventure of Flik, an ant inventor, who seems to find himself in trouble more often than not. After a series of events, all of the food that the ants collect as an offering to a band of grasshoppers that harrass their colony is gone, dropped into the water surrounding the island that the colony is on. Poor Flik is to blame. Quickly after a meeting between the Ant Queen, Princess Ada, and the advisors of the colony, Flik is sent out to find some warrior bugs to fight off the grasshoppers. What ensues is a hilarous misunderstanding, that leads to your typical confrontation of good vs evil. The pace of the movie is great, and the visuals (per 1999) are amazing. John Lasseter knows how to treat his audience, and we get what we want to see, the perspective of the world from a bug's view. Taking story elements from "Seven Samurai," the film is about standing up for what is right, even if confronted with insanely big obstacles. The voice actors, specially Kevin Spacey as Hopper, seem to have a blast, giving an extra amount of charisma to the film. The main reason why this movie is a success is because, like all Pixar films, it has a heart, and it always will.
5 out of 5.

The Blu-Ray:
Video:
WOW! I have to give Kudos to Disney. They have yet failed to impress me with any of their Blu-Ray releases. There is not a blemish or artifact to be found. Straight from the digital transfer, the colors are perfectly balanced and varied, while blacks are as deep as they can be. This is a pristine transfer, with no imperfections what-so-ever.
5 out of 5.

Audio:
I was very impressed by the video, but I was blown away by the DTS-HD MA mix on this Blu-Ray. MY GOODNESS! I never thought I would say this, but this is the perfect mix. It even tops Wall-E (IMO) in every aspect. Surround use is constant and directionality is like no other. The perfect demo scene would be when the rains begins. The bass of the drops, the clarity of the screams, it all weaves together to form an audio experience like no other. Just perfect!
5 out of 5.

Overall, this is a wonderful Blu-Ray. Great, fun movie, with a wonderful transfer, and an audio mix that is demo-worthy. My hat goes off to Disney.