While I love Zombie movies, I am by no means an expert on the genre.  However, I don't like the hokey zombies in Return of the Living Dead, who run around screaming, "Brains, brains!"  Zombie movies should terrorize us, not make us roll our eyes and laugh at clowns.

I enjoy this remake of Dawn of the Dead, but there's an inconsistency.  These zombies are more like those fast running, rabid ones in 28 Days Later, but the director still tries to hold on to the trance-like state of the slow moving creatures in George Romero's films.

The little girl in the beginning is slow, reaching out her arms, and biting the guy on the neck, lunging like a snapping turtle.  OK, great scene. But then she jumps up like a sumo wrestler and runs back down the hall at the woman in the bedroom.  Contradiction in her demeanor.

The husband becomes a zombie and runs after his wife in the car. The naked woman acts more like she's in a trance.......dead.

There's the bloody guy pressing up against the glass door at the mall looking and acting more like a George Romero zombie, but the one-armed jogger running high speed after the people who are trying to break into the mall seems to have the full cognizant abilities of the living.

I just prefer the slower, trance-like zombies of George Romero because they're supposed to be the living dead. Emphasis on DEAD.  The terror is them getting ahold of you and having to fight them off, underestimating them, or two or more(groups) of them getting after you. Their simple, animated, methodical relentlessness.

When they act like those in this remake they don't seem to be what I consider a zombie anymore, but just wild, crazy living people.

The other thing I don't like in this remake is how people become zombies. A virus is blamed and a person has to be bitten.  In this era of the politically correct CDC and NIH blaming everything on viruses(i.e., HIV/AIDS paradigm) I'm not surprised that this line was taken.

I like it better when anyone who dies, for whatever reason, becomes a zombie.  All the dead just get up and must be put down with a shot to the head.  Now this would cause a faster worldwide phenomenon with no epicenter of origin. People die everyday in hospitals, at home, on the roadway, out in streets, at work, wherever.  Zombies would spring up everywhere.  While people would be advised to stay in their homes, they wouldn't even be safe there.

I bought this and will watch it, but I'm waiting for the day when someone makes a really terrifying zombie movie.