I'm an unusual James Bond fan.  The first Bond movie I ever saw was "Never Say Never Again" at the ripe old age of 12.  The violence, the sex, the decadence all made quite an impression on me.  Needless to say, my parents didn't let me watch any more Bond when I was a kid.
A few years later, I came across a pile of Bond novels in paperback form at a library discard sale.  So I bought them - all of the original Fleming novels.  Since my parents still controlled the TV, and Bond was still forbidden in their house (though I was in high school, my younger siblings were not), I got to know James Bond through the novels.  As a retult, Timothy Dalton (who reread the Fleming novels when he got the role) is my favorite Bond.  But he's not in my favorite Bond film.
The people who watch Bond for big explosions and stupid gadget tricks won't like OHMSS.  The people who see James Bond as Superman without the cape won't be impressed.  If you're looking for James Bond, the camp hero of 1977's "Moonraker", look elsewhere.  The people who read the books, however, will recognize and appreciate the amount of work that went into this film, and might understand why OHMSS is my favorite Bond flick.
First of all, the film is visually stunning - the sets, the costumes, the location shots are above and beyond anything done anywhere else in Bond.  Piz Gloria looks like it was plucked right out of the novel.  (The director insisted that ceilings be built on all of the interior sets to make them look more like "real" places.)
Second, Diana Rigg might not have looked like the daughter of a Corsican crime baron, but few other actresses had the self-confidence - to say nothing of the reputation, having portrayed Emma Peel (a role shared with "Goldfinger" star Honor Blackman) - to play the take-no-backtalk Tracy.
Third, the lack of gadgets and toys forces James Bond to think or fight his way through this film.  Certainly, his great athleticism helps him escape from Piz Gloria, but there's nothing superhuman about what he does, and nothing "over the top" about the tools he uses.
The "special edition" DVD adds some nice touches.  A "making-of" featurette and commentary from the Director give you a much better sense of the work that they put into this film.
Truly the climax of the Bond films; it was all downhill from here.