The film opens with a written narrative that it is based upon the life of Frances Farmer.  After doing some research on Farmer and her turbulent life, I found that the film takes many liberties with the troubled actress's life.  Most blatantly is the claim towards the film's end that Farmer, who suffered from mental illness most of her adult life, was given a lobotomy.  Witness's accounts, family input and medical records have disproved this theory.  There are other problems with the script's credibility.  Farmer was not an only child and the character of Harry York, who serves as the film's narrator, never existed.

Nevertheless, the film is extremely powerful, well written and directed.  At the core of the film is the magnificent performance of Jessica Lange.  Probably with a touch of film magic, Lange's facial resemblance to Farmer is almost spooky.  Here's a performance of historical proportions.  Like Brando in "On the Waterfront", or more recently the late Heath Ledger in "Brokeback Mountain", for me this is one of those quintessential film performances that unfortunately happen infrequently.  Lange would have probably won the Oscar for best actress had Meryl Streep made "Sophie's Choice" earlier or later.  Also, Lange could have cancelled herself out by the historical nomination of not only best actress for "Frances" but also best supporting actress in "Tootsie".  As delightful as she was as the soap opera actress in "Tootsie" for which she won the award that year, as far as I'm concerned, both Streep and Lange could have tied for the best actress prize.  Lange is brilliant throughout.  Convincing as the teenage Farmer, the adult Farmer and finally the emotionally scared middle aged woman.

In her last film role, Kim Stanley as Frances's possessive mother also gives an amazing performance.  Stanley has always been a favorite of mine.  I've marveled at her natural technique, that brilliant ability to appear as not acting.  She was one of the greatest actresses of her generation.

Sam Sheppard is wonderful as the mythical Harry York who narrates the film.  His style is natural and he's almost unbelievably handsome in a very natural way.  It's a quiet performance that makes an indelible impression.

John Barry's lush and beautiful score, as well as a piano sonata, underscore the film beautifully.  One of the best film scores ever written.

Despite the inaccuracies of the film, which was more or less based upon the just as inaccurate book on Farmer's life "Shadowland", the film is rich with the atmosphere of  the 1930's Hollywood and Broadway atmosphere.  The art direction of the film stunning.

The difficult subject matter of how mental illness was treated in the middle of the 20th century probably kept popular audiences away from the film.  But it became a hit as a video release and just as strong in its laser disk and DVD versions.

Although the film is not an accurate account of it's subject's life, the career and emotional problems Farmer experienced are true and again, Lange's performance is a remarkable achievement.