Like most reviewers here, I saw this movie as a free On Demand flick under the FEARnet category. I had seen previews for it on a horror DVD I own, and it looked decent, so I decided to check it out. I had read no reviews before watching it, so I was pretty open to whatever the movie had to offer.

I have to say, this movie was one he11 of a fun time. Bradley Cooper plays a struggling photographer named Leon, living with his girlfriend played by Brooke Shields. Upon having his work criticized by a prestigious art snob (they explain her qualifications better in the movie, I just don't recall what they are), he decides to follow suspicious, dangerous people in the night with his camera in order to truly capture the "heart of the city". He becomes obsessed with a creepy butcher played by Vinnie Jones, who also happens to be a mass murderer.

First, let's discuss the pros. If you are a gore hound like me, you will not be disappointed by THE MIDNIGHT MEAT TRAIN. There's a lot of gruesome stuff here, and the camera never shies away from the killings. There are also a lot of really cool camera angles and POV shots that really add to the movie stylistically. The movie is shot in a way that makes the whole city look muted, dismal, and bleak, adding to the film's dark atmosphere. At times, the movie is truly beautiful to watch. Vinnie Jones is awesome as the killer, totally believable and frightening. Cooper and Shields are pretty good in their roles, and their characters are likable enough.

Now the cons. I'm a fairly pragmatic person, so it was hard for me to suspend my disbelief enough to swallow some ludicrous aspects of the plot. For instance, Leon becomes psychotically obsessed with the butcher awfully fast. And gosh, he's pretty good at hand-to-hand combat for a frigging photographer. And I like gratuitous, excessive violence, but the fight scene at the end is just dumb. For instance, Leon blocks a knife coming at his face using HIS OWN ARM as a shield. I mean really? Seriously? You're totally surrounded by dismembered body parts, and you couldn't use one of them?

Despite all my complaints, I really had a good time watching this. I'm on the fence about buying it, but if I were to see it at a store really cheap, I'd definitely get it. It's a bloody, messy thrill ride, and you'll like it if you can get past the stupidity of some parts.