Election, staring Reese Witherspoon and Matthew Broderick, is not your typical teen high school drama, but rather an interesting twist on a high school student government election.  The predominant theme is mocking government and the election process by a high school election, which mirrors exaggerations of American political reality with a definite focus on many prevalent elements of the 1992 election.  The movie also encompasses intergenerational political views, as well as, parallels to reality.  Tracey Flick (Reese Witherspoon), who is running for Student Government President, exemplifies the typical high school overachiever so obsessed with perfection that she does not care what she does in her climb to the top.  She has sexual relations with her teacher; he loses his job but she escapes unscathed.  This illustration of the increase in acceptance of sexual freedom among younger generations is found is a reoccurring theme: lesbian relations and premarital sexual relations are portrayed as being acceptable among youth while sex leads to the downfall of each adult character who gets caught up in it.  Tracey slanders classmates in her election speech (a typical political scheme to dig up "dirt"). While all this is taking place, there is a strong intergenerational conflict between Tracey and Mr. M. (Matthew Broderick).  Mr. M. does not understand Tracey's overwhelming drive, inability to be satisfied, and disregard for hurting anyone in her way to the top.  Conversely, Tracey does not understand how Mr. M. can be happy in a job where he knows that the people he is teaching will end up moving on to bigger and better things then himself.  Mr. M. resents Tracy for the sexual affair that she had with the other teacher who was a friend of his.  Because he does not trust her, he successfully encourages Paul Metzler (Chris Klein), the most popular student in the school, to run against her.  Paul's character is the opposite extreme of Tracy's.  He is the stereotypical, fun loving, considerate, somewhat dumb, jock that gets everything handed to him.  He is such a nice guy that he even votes for Tracy because he feels weird about voting for himself (after all what's one vote matter).  He is the pinnacle of both the ideal high school social elite and the merit system in America. Focusing primarily on political themes in the movie, we see there is a great deal to explore.  Tammy Metzler (Jessica Campbell), the third party candidate, is not only the satirical character of Ross Perot, but is used to embody the political views of the younger generation who do not trust politics and who do not take them seriously.  Tammy even goes so far as to promise the disbanding of the student government upon her election in order to prevent the students from having to sit through anymore dull election speeches.  This gets an incredibly favorable response from the student body.  It should be noted that Perot spoke out against the government and election process just as Tammy did.  Ultimately, Tammy is disqualified for the candidacy symbolizing Ross Perot's virtual disqualification because of his status as a third party candidate.  With Tammy disqualified, the election comes down to two candidates: Tracey and Paul.  Come Election Day, (a Tuesday, of course) when the votes are counted, it is found that Tracey won by a single vote.  A large majority of the votes were thrown out because they were votes for Tammy, who represented the opinion of the masses (government is bad).  Mr. M. has to recount the ballots before the winner can be officially declared.  As he finishes the second count, he sees Tracy hopping around outside the classroom (she had been tipped off after the first count) and becomes so angry that he throws out two votes for Tracey leaving Paul the winner.  The final count is done by the principle, who gets the same count that Mr. M. does.  This is a display of how easily those with too much power can corrupt the system.  The student in charge of the count claims that two votes for Tracy are missing but is quickly dismissed as being wrong (an obvious display of how adults assume adolescents are irresponsible, not trustworthy, and do not know what they are talking about in regard to politics).  In the end, Mr. M's immoral decision to throw away votes is exposed by the janitor and Tracey wins by a single vote.  Had Paul voted for himself he would have won.  Thus we see that one vote does make a difference and that you have to look out for yourself because altruism gets you nowhere in politics. Overnight, everyone finds out about the dishonest thing that Mr. M did and, as in reality, all his successful accomplishments are forgotten so he moves to New York City to start a new life.  In the last scene we see Mr. M is on a vacation in Washington D.C. and notices Tracey getting into a limo with a man in a business suit.  At this point he claims he feels sorry for her and does not hold a grudge.  Upon realizing that the man must be a congressman or some other person of distinction, rage and disgust at her ruthlessness overwhelm him.  He flings his cup of soda at the limo as it drives away.  When it stops, he runs off into a park.  The movie closes with the same theme that it began with:  the intergenerational conflict regarding both politics and society.