For many of you who saw Lost Highway, the meaning and interpretation of  the film has eluded you.  If you are anything like me, you spent hours  reviewing the movie, thumb on the pause button, notebook in lap!  The  beauty of the film truly lies in it's mystery.  It is a work of art, and as  with any artistic expression, the piece is left open for interpretation by  all.  Each persons opinion or conclusion neither being right or wrong.  My  original ideas included comparing Renee Madison/Alice Wakefield (Patricia  Arquette) to a modern day Eve, working with the devil/mystery man (Robert  Blake) as she lured the men in the movie into sin.  My other major theory  was that the main characters in the movie at one point sold their souls to  the devil, and he held total control over their fate, drawing them into his  den and forcing them to do his dirty work, i.e. porn, murder, etc.
Well,  my interpretations were all well and good, but I was interested in what was  going through the mind of David Lynch and Barry Gifford when they wrote the  movie.  I did a little research, and this is what I found...
Night  People
The idea for this movie came to David Lynch while reading a book  by Barry Gifford called Night People.  In the book, Barry uses the term  "lost highway" and those words sparked an idea in David's head.  From this  early point, David knew he wanted to make a movie about the unknown.  He  contacted Barry, and they set out to write the movie.
Murder
If any of  you are wondering if Fred actually killed Renee, the answer is yes.  Fred  lived in constant fear of loosing Renee, constant fear that she was  cheating on him, and most importantly, constant fear of her past.  He loved  Renee, but at the same time hated her.  Whenever he saw her, he saw her  past.  Sex with Renee was a torturous reminder of her experience in porn,  making it impossible for him to even finish.  Eventually, he just snapped.  If you watch the movie again, pause it at the point where he  watches the  final video tape, and jog slowly over the portion where we see Renee's  body.  You will see what kind of anger and rage exploded inside Fred when  he killed her.  Her torso is ripped apart, her upper and lower body are  completely separated and her hand is cut off and lying on the bed.  Continue to jog slowly and you will see Fred stare directly into the camera  with a piercing, maniacal gaze.
Psychogenic Fugue
Psychogenic fugue is  an existing mental condition in which the subject, wanting to escape  reality, creates a new reality inside their head.  The person will create  new friends, a new job, a new home, everything.  Pretty much the entire  movie takes place within Fred's head.  When the movie opens, Fred has  already killed Renee and he starts creating an alternate reality.  He  infuses his own reality with tiny portions of the truth, so some of what we  see is actually based on fact, but the majority is what Fred is creating  inside his own head.  A very important line in the movie is when Fred and  Renee are explaining to the police why they don't own a video camera.  Fred  says he doesn't like them, that he "would rather remember things his way,  not necessarily the way they happened"  
When Fred is imprisoned, his  mental illness kicks into high gear.  He is on death row, and any hope of  escaping his nightmare (his real life) is lost.  He is stuck in this cell  until his death.  His only way out is to completely escape to a new  reality.  This is when he essentially snaps and in his own mind, he takes  on a new identity, Pete.  The rest of the movie is him trying to live a  life he finds more attractive.  He is a young, good-looking guy, who has no  trouble getting any woman he wants.  Then he meets Alice (a now blonde  Patricia Arquette), his alternate version of Renee.  
But, Fred is so  sick, that even in the reality that he is creating, Alice becomes a product  of his paranoia, eventually turning on him, declaring "you will never have  me" while they are having sex and then getting up and walking away.  This  is the point in the movie, in the desert, when Fred decides to abandon this  alternate reality and he reappears and Pete disappears. 
The last scene  of the movie is Fred being chased by the police down the highway as he  begins to transform again, just like in the prison cell.  This reality  didn't quite work out the way he wanted it to, and now he is out there  somewhere, living a new life again.  Let's hope this one worked out for  him! &amp;#61514;
Robert Blake
The mystery man is truly the most  fascinating aspect of this movie.  In my opinion, he is Fred's idea of the  devil.  He has supernatural powers and he feeds off the sins of mortals.  The scene at the party is one of the creepiest movie scenes I've seen, yet  at the same time it is hilarious.  The way the music and party noise fade  when the mystery man and Fred walk up to each other created a bizarre and  surreal exchange.  Another great scene of the movie is when Mr. Eddy and  the mystery man call Pete together.  "Yeah Pete, I just wanted to jump back  on and let you know I'm glad your ok!"  Click.  That was great.  And of  course, I can't talk about the great scenes in the movie without mentioning  the "tailgating" scene.  Robert Loggia (Mr. Eddy) is a  master.
Conclusion
Keeping in mind David's use of psychogenic fugue as  the main characters mental illness, the movie is actually very simple.  Watching the movie again, keeping this all in mind, is an entirely new  experience.  The first several times I watched it I was intrigued by the  puzzle.  Now, watching the movie, I can relax, stop trying to figure out  how everything relates to everything else, and watch what is actually  happening.  I suggest, if you are a fan of the movie and haven't seen it in  a while, or if you learned some new things here, then go back and watch it  again.  You will realize more than ever that David Lynch is brilliant, a  master of the avant-garde.