The Origins of 007`s arch-nemeis Ernst Stavro Blofeld, and his organization SPECTRE (the Special Executive for Conterintelligence Terrorism Revenge and Extortion) were in a committee (that included James Bond creator Ian Fleming, Jack Whittingham and a man named Kevin McClory) working on a srcipt starring James Bond way back in 1958 I believe it was. Anyway, Fleming found the committee to be relatively useless,left, and then wrote the novel Thunderball, which introduced Blofeld and SPECTRE in to the novels. Shortly afterwards, producers Albert R. Broccoli and his pal Harry Saltzman wanted to start a series of Bond films. Kevin McClory felt he had originated Blofeld and SPECTRE and some of Thunderball`s story line and that Fleming had
stolen the ideas from him. And Kevin wasn`t about to let Thunderball go to the screen without him. The legal battles that went one are to complicated, but what came out of this was: Fleming would retain the literary rights to one Enrst Stavro Blofeld and SPECTRE, while McClory would retain the screen rights. Albert and Harry were free to film a filmed version of Thunderball as long as McClory was the producer. In addition, McClory was allowed to produce his own remake of the story, just as long as he didn`t start production until after 1975. The legal battles are also the reason why Blofeld doesn`t appear in any of the films after Diamonds are Forever was released in 1971 (except as an unnamed character in the pre-credits seqeunce of For Your Eyes Only, Broccoli`s good riddance to whole damn mess). Never Say Never Again is McClory`s remake of Thunderball.
And unfortunately, he did`nt have the rights to any of the series
trademarks, though, so unfortunately, you will not hear the immortal James Bond theme or see the famous gunbarrel opening. McClory obtained Sean Connery for the role of agent 007, who vowed that after Diamonds Are Forever he would NEVER play Bond AGAIN (hence the title of this movie). The cast for the film is absolutely wonderful, except Kim Basinger is not good as Domino, (Claude Auger played a much better Domino in Thunderball). I tell you, this film is awesome, it`s a hell of a lot better then the different but good Octopussy which was released in the same year. And that flawed ending, is okay.