I was wondering if they would ever release this, and when I finally saw the news it had been scheduled for an official release I pre-ordered. I got my copy over the weekend, and while this is a short & sweet package, its a wonderful taste of yesteryear. It is only 9 episodes, which is probably going to make some people hesitate at buying this, but the pricepoint being below $20 should certainly help.

Picture & Sound: I cannot say enough as to how well this has been restored. The picture is flawless and looks better than I ever remembered it. Considering the source material is 35 years old, I find it odd some people are saying it wasnt remastered, as Ive watched these shows since I was a kid (I saw them all the first time around) and theyve never looked this good. The 4:3 aspect ratio has been preserved, so you'll be watching this with black columns on most modern HDTVs, but Im glad they did this as it respects the original view of how the show was supposed to look. One of my biggest complaints about Season One when it ran in syndication was how dark it always looked, but here every scene of every episode has been toned-up and brightened to modern-day standards. It truly is like watching it for the first time again. And even the laugh track has been preserved, which I know a lot of fans dislike. But to me, that was a part of the original show and Im glad they kept it. Both picture & sound get a 10/10 from me.

Eight Is Enough premiered as a mid-season replacement in the Spring of 1977, and thats why this first season is so short. But please dont let that stop you from investing a few dollars. They simply dont make shows like this anymore, and I dont think it could be done if someone tried. The 1970s was a much simpler time, and the Bradfords' "crisis of the week" would seem just plain hokey by today's standards. But its exactly that atmosphere of the show that makes it so wonderful to watch again, as it takes you back to when life was simple and family was always the most important thing in your life. Like other shows of the time, such as Little House & Family, Eight Is Enough was wholesome without being preachy or too overly sappy. And, obviously, Warner Brothers is testing the market with this release, saving future seasons based on how well this one sells. (IE, if you want to see Seasons 2-5, make sure you buy this one so they release them!!!).

The only real extra on this collection is a rebroadcast of a 2011 Today show segment in which the majority of the cast was brought back together for an interview. Two cast members are very notably missing from this, as Adam Rich (Nicholas, the youngest) and Susan Richardson (Susan, the tomboy) are nowhere to be found. Rich did email a statement regretting his inability to be there, but Richardson was simply ignored altogether. And without the entire cast, I find it a little flimsy calling it a "reunion". Still this is the only thing I can find fault with on this DVD, and believe me most viewers wont miss it. The episodes of the show are the real stars here, and FINALLY they have been given a chance to shine.

Overall, this is definitely a great buy. And for those of you still on the fence because of how short this set is, here's something to keep in mind: Season Two is when this show really found its' footing and the writing began to excel, and there are 24 episodes in that one. So, consider this your sampler...if it sells well, the really good part of this show will come in future releases very soon.

My mark for the season's episodes themselves: B
Its a great start, but the best is yet to come in future seasons.

My mark for this DVD set: A
The lack of any real extras is a bit of a bummer, but the impeccable restoration of the video & sound makes you feel like this was shot in HD and really feels like youre watching it all for the first time again. Here's to Season Two coming soon!!!