Eleven Great Stories: Roberto Benigni, Steven Wright, Iggy Pop, Tom Waits, The White Stripes (Meg White and Jack White), Alfred Molina, Steve Coogan, Cate Blanchett, Steve Buscemi, Bill Murray, The Wu Tang Clan (RZA/GZA) and many more...

First of all, How can you write several stories about coffee and cigarettes FOR A FILM? I think it's COMPLEX, but more than the Topic its the way Mr. Jarmusch made this film.

I think this is a great film to review in all Film Colleges, just get focus in the image treatment (Of course after you watch the movie for the very first time) and you will say: "Wow, I want to make movies, I have to think in simple things, and give them a body, a good one..."

So simple, but as a film maker I have to say it's not that easy, it's not about "technique" it's about "CINEMA CULTURE", we have to develop a Common Sense, "a CINEMATOGRAPHIC ONE"... I'm not wise of course, but I'm doing my best to make "PERSONAL FILMS", we are disgusted by the Hollywood Cinema, we must to work our brains, I'm begging you, we can start a new wave, we are the future, don't swallow that pill for stupid people.

Back again to the Jarmusch's film, I think the best plot is the Molina/Coogan's one, so hilarious, the act is perfect, the camera shot so neat, Don't miss the chance to buy this movie, and don't compare this movie with the early Jarmusch's works.

This movie is great because it's so simple, you don't have to watch this Hollywood "Experimental" Cinema (I'm being sarcastic, one example: "Butterfly Effect") this is the kind of Lame story, "Oh yeah, we want a complex story and then we want to get lost in the plot" well it's because this kind of movies don't make any sense, and it doesn't mean that movies are great.

And please, don't make any judge about this movie without a solid theory, it's not fair for the director. You don't have to make a fantastic story with the best technology, you just need an anecdote (and talent to make this anecdote an interesting story) and cinema sense.

 And don't waste your time writing negative reviews, what's for? Go and write about your favourite movies, maybe your cinema culture is the "POP" one, or go and change film history...