1. Timothy Dalton as James Bond: One of my biggest problems with this film and "The Living Daylights" is this man playing Bond. He just doesn't cut it: Connery, Moore, and even LAZENBY before him were witty and funny as well as being determined secret agents. Now Timothy Dalton is stiff, cold-blooded, sadistic, and almost evil in this movie and humorless. This man is the worst James Bond to date, he's cold, humorless and doesn't even try to be funny. This is one of my biggest problems with the movie.

2. The Villains (Sanchez, Milton Krest, Killifer, Dario, Heller, Prof. Joe, Truman-Lodge) In this wide-array of henchman, you'd think there would be a plus side. There isn't, these are all the worst villains of all time. Franz Sanchez, measly South American druglord. This is the stereotypical 1980s-cocaine smuggling "let's kill the druglord" movie than Bond. They're the worst-written and aren't unique in any way shape or form (like Auric Goldfinger, Max Zorin, Hugo Drax, Alec Trevelyan, Ernst Stavro Blofeld...) larger than life, psychotic, completely unique villains with unique henchman as well! (Oddjob, May Day, Jaws, Xenia Onatopp, Helga Brandt, Irma Bunt) but these villains are average and could be found anywhere (Heller, Truman-Lodge, Dario, and Killifer could be found anywhere, Professor Joe and Krest are a little more interesting but screen time is cut short to the most gruesome death in the Bond series and Joe's screen time is limited as well). Sanchez is my other beef with the film, he's menacing but is merely a small time crook and is not worth going after. I hate him.

3. The plot - Bond's adventures are usually a bit over-the-top and always involve saving the world. Not here. Here we have Bond taking down small time crook Sanchez because he tried to kill Felix Leiter. So, he never had a need to go after Sanchez before but because of Leiter, Dalton gets meaner than he already is and QUITS THE SECRET SERVICE. That's right, quits. In a pointless act of defiance, Bond quits to avenge Leiter and leaves us all not rooting for him or for anybody for the rest of this trainwreck (sorry, I mean film). I'll have to give it to the film, the precredits is mildly exciting but for the rest of the film it's dull-dull-dull. This is meant to be tackled by the US Narcotics Board, not MI6, or the Chinese Narcotics Board (why on earth are the Chinese there in the FIRST PLACE?)

4. The girls - These I actually don't mind (and no, this is not a chauvinistic post on how these women are just lookers). Pam Bouvier is underappreciated (and not the most attractive) because she is probably the most equal to Bond of any woman (because no one saw this film people talk of Wai Lin and putrid Jinx). The woman definitely out-Bond's Bond most of the time, shoots Dario, carries a shotgun, and kicks serious [...] Lupe is okay but I won't waste my time there.

5. The Budget - Probably one of my biggest problems with the film is that I could make it. The money was obviously spent on the precredits sequence.

Dr. No: $1 Million Dollars

A View to a Kill: $30 Million Dollars

Licence to Kill: $12 Dollars

Getting a new Bond to replace putrid Dalton: Priceless

Exactly. This film is so cheap, it's not funny. TLD showed the money onscreen and I could make this movie in my backyard (and I'd get a better cast too). Get this everyone we get a fight scene of course but not just any fight scene... a fight scene in a SLEAZY BAR! Oh, I'm crying by now and I'm sure everyone else is too because we don't get any flashy sports cars in these films, instead we get Tanker Trucks for the finale chase scene/fight scene which seems to go on forever. They really cheaped out with having it being set in South America, getting Bond away from MI6 and using sets from a cancelled FOX TV show. How cheap can you get? Thankfully, next time we'll get a big budget Bond film, the best in the series, GoldenEye.

6. The violence factor - I'm all for action, sometimes bloody deaths, but these are unnecessary. This is the only Bond film to get a 15 over in Europe and it's NOT BOND. Bond has never been the cold-blooded killer type or rugged, ruthless action man. Here are some of the deaths that were UNNECESSARY.

1. The death of Milton Krest: Though unique, this death is probably what earned the film its rating. Sanchez, outraged that Krest is allegedly ripping him off, throws him into a random decompression chamber, cranks up the pressure and cuts the hose so his head can explode. Bloody and unnecessary, plus Sanchez thought that out pretty quickly.

2. The death of Heller: Despite being a crappy villain, Heller is likeable in my eyes and though annoying Bond is right in that Heller is ripping Sanchez off, he pays for it by being impaled on a forklift. Okay, Heller can get impaled on a forklift but what was the use of it randomly driving into the room Pam and Bond were in? It makes no sense.

3. The death of Dario: "You're dead!" "You took the words right outta my mouth!" Good dialogue there, Pam shoots Dario a few times, causing him to lose his balance and falls into the cocaine shredder, getting his legs chopped to bits in the process and having his mangled flesh and blood fly at the camera. Ewww, gross and unnecessary.

This violence is not needed, plus it isn't very Bond-ish. Bond is not about gruesome deaths, he kills when necessary and I don't believe he enjoys it when Dalton seems to almost enjoy the deaths and here's Heller's little witticism.

Pam: Oh my God! It's Heller!

Bond: (stiff as a plank of wood) Yeah, he came to a dead end. Because "He got the point" was already used in Thunderball and it was delivered better by Sean Connery, it worked there so they had to come up with a second-rate "He got the point".

So there you have it, a long list of why LTK is one of the worst Bond films ever. With all these negatives, the only thing positive is Q gets a little more screen time and Pam is a good Bond girl.