I know three of these MST3K eps well: Wurrrrwilf and its Uzbekistani cast, as well as Laserblast (starring the immortal Eddie Deezen) and Future War (starring Jean-Claude Gosh Darn). First Spaceship on Venus I saw on MST3K a long, long time ago, but the riffing is dim in my memory.

However, First Spaceship on Venus was actually a groundbreaking Eastern Bloc (Polish, to be exact) film from 1959 that actually depicted a multi-ethnic spaceship crew - unheard of in the USA at the time - that stressed brotherhood. Of course, it was "comrades", but at least, for instance, the African-American character was completely stereotype free - save for the constant gesturing by the writing saying, "Look! We have a black character and he's not oppressed! Hooray for the worker!" Oy. The plot was cheesy, but not the cheese you'd find in other MST3K episodes.

The other three? There's less cheese in all of Wisconsin, Vermont, France and the Netherlands. Wurrrrrrwilf is the most recent movie MST3K ever did (1996), and featured an all thickly-accented Italian cast, with the director making a cameo as a Sicilian rent-a-cop who decides to drive like a Kennedy. Laserblast features Eddie Deezen, some good stop-motion animated turtle aliens who are completely out of place in the film, and a kid who wishes he were at a nudist colony to show off his 1970's scrawny torso. The sign off of the Comedy Central era show wasn't half as good as the Sci-Fi Network finale, though. Transforming into balls of light wasn't nearly as poignant as the trio sitting down into a baseman studio apartment and watching The Crawling Eye. And finally, Future War, a movie that is so cheaply made, you can tell it was a demo reel for Daniel Bernhardt so he could audition for the Bloodsport sequels and the live action Mortal Kombat series - he literally was the guy you called when Jean-Claude Van Damme wasn't available. MST3K favorite Robert Z'Dar appears in it as well.

The interviews look great - can't wait to see them. The Crow tchotchke is nice, and the lobby cards don't seem to be anything special. I do love the new artwork on each DVD, though.