Maybe I cheated by watching the special feature about the making of the movie before watching the movie, but it helped to reinforce that I shouldn't expect the old Sherlock Holmes, and maybe that helped me to relax and enjoy the movie for the delight that it was.  My following comments might seem rather critical, but keep in mind that I still gave it four (4) stars, and I'm trying to not spoil the climax for any of you who still plan to see it.

Two scenes in particular seemed particularly disjointed, as the action took place and then Holmes recounted in slower motion and more detail what actually happened.  One near the beginning of the movie was when he quickly donned a disquise to follow the lady, and the other was in the denumont as he explained how he was duped, allowing a villian to get away with a key item which might lead to the sequel.  (One can hope that it does.)

In another, boxing fight scene, Holmes previews what he is going to do in slow motion with explanation, and then returns to real time and does it.  Although the scene is referenced again in a later scene, I'm still wondering what the actual sequence added to the movie, other than showing two men fighting with their shirts off, and reinforcing the cold, calculating, practical, logic of Holmes.

The explosion scene outside the factory seemed about two steps over the top, as the secondary and tertiary explosions seemed to go on forever, followed with the shock that Watson survived at all, (though you know in the back of your mind that they can't kill off the lead's main supporting character,) and Holmes was able to walk away.  I did think it good, though, that they at least portrayed the "shell shock" that he was under for a few seconds, even though it was terribly unrealistically compressed.  Ah-h, the magic of movies.

Speaking of which, I did enjoy the way Holmes interspersed some of his explanations of the "elementary" tricks, and the grand explanation at the end.  Throughout the movie, I was hoping that the secret of the villian surviving the hanging would be different than I expected, but alas, it is exactly what any fan of the genre knows it to be the moment that they see that the hung man appears to have returned from the dead.

Nevertheless, I thought that the entire story was very true to the Sir Arthur Conan Doyle style, and the story line engaging -- although the ending was almost obviously inevitable from the beginning, there were some surprises in how they got from one act to the next.  It was obvious and appreciable that they went to great efforts to stay true to the period with the story, sets, costumes, and special effects.  If you watch it from a critical perspective, there are lots of little things to question and challenge.  Keeping in mind that it's just a story, it's well depicted, and very enjoyable viewing.

(I was lucky to pick up a former rental copy for less than the cost of a rental.  I'm still not sure if I would buy it if I had to pay more, and if I were not the Sherlock Holmes fan that I have been since childhood.)