This film tells the story of two Wyoming ranch-hands getting a job together and eventually finding themselves in love with each other. The impact of this impossible love on their further lives is laid bare in agonizing detail, resulting in a heartbreakingly poignant conclusion that leaves not a single winner. Those who prefer happy endings are well advised to stay away, though they will be the poorer for it.

The brilliant opening scene has you riveted right away. The main protagonists appear in the shot, yet all there is is silence. It takes ages for anyone to say anything, and when the first full sentence is spoken it is by neither of the boys, but by the man they are seeking a job from. It is typical of the film: enormous suspense and terrific emotional charges build up through silence and lack of action. The smallest gestures and the tiniest, mumbled phrases gain huge significance: Ennis squatting naked in the background, washing himself, and Jack in the foreground, very actively NOT looking. If you don't have an eye for such detail, this movie will mean nothing to you. If you do, the characters will speak to you in an unprecedented way, and you'll even find an occasional tongue in cheek joke adding some comic relief to this tragic story (e.g., Jack driving a tractor of the 'Versatile' brand). In this context, the few emotional and aggressive outbursts of course pack a tremendous punch.

And then there is the sheer beauty of the images. The sweeping landscapes of Wyoming (actually Alberta, Canada) lend a Walt-Whitmanesque power to the relationship of the two men, and heighten the contrast with the hideous little towns where they conduct their obligatory marriages - which after a promising start recede into joyless dreariness, until, as Jack puts it, they can be conducted over the phone. Prieto's cinematography is simply breathtaking, and a random collection of frames from this film would make a great photobook.

The lead actors carry the movie, and take the skill of acting to new heights. From Gyllenhaal this is no surprise, as he had already proven himself to be an actor of extraordinary calibre and versatility. His Jack Twist, notwithstanding his obvious imperfections, is instantly loveable, and his descent into increasing anger and bitterness painful to watch. It is, however, Ledger's performance that is the big surprise and the crowning glory of this film. Author Annie Proulx observed that he understood Ennis's character better than she herself did, and if ever an actor got under the skin of his character, it is here. His Ennis is like a coiled-up spring, the tremendous tension inside palpable throughout. Ledger certainly has come a long way, and more than makes up for silly excursions like 'The Brothers Grimm'. Interestingly, in a way he comes full circle with the start of his acting career, when he appeared in an Australian teen soap as a cyclist on a sports academy, struggling to come to terms with his homosexuality. Michelle Williams and Anne Hathaway also give sterling performances as the tormented wives. Alma's Thanksgiving outburst and even more Lureen's telephone conversation with Ennis are acting feats of rare power - it is impossible to think of Hathaway returning to "Princess Diaries" after this, though apparently she will. Roberta Maxwell appears only briefly as Jack's mother, yet projects so much intensity into her few lines and all her facial expressions that you feel you could write a novel about the woman.

Hollywood has come a long way in finally admitting a film like this to the mainstream. All the fuss surrounding it remains shocking, though; rightwing zealots and "christian" bishops would have you believe you're in for some gay hardcore flick, but BBM actually contains no more than the barest minimum of necessary man-on-man lovescenes. In comparison to straight-themed movies (or even to the straight lovescenes in BBM itself), there is still a long way to go.

It is even more shocking that the will and the courage were still lacking to award BBM the ultimate prize it so very clearly deserved - some Academy members, like good old Tony Curtis (didn't we see him in a dress once?) refusing to even view it, thus further devaluating the meaning of the Oscar system. Good as Crash is, it has nothing of the tautness, tension and sheer personality of BBM, and even less of its raw beauty and sad, haunting atmosphere.

In all, this is one of the most consistently beautiful, meaningful, and emotionally draining films I've seen in a long time - and this comes from somebody who generally cares very little for Wild West movies, the Sixties, or C&W music. This intimate, universal tale of loss and regret puts every Hollywood megabudget production of the last three decades to shame. If it leaves you unmoved, you might want to visit your GP to check whether your heart is still in place.