Before seeing this movie, I was not much of a Renny Harlin fan. And  afterwards, maybe I'm still not that much of a Renny Harlin fan; I mean Die  Hard 2 was good, but it was far from its predecessor. But this movie--OH  DEAR GOD!!--it made my day, and the next week. Okay, so you have to be in  the right mindset. Summer-action-effects-extravaganza. Nothing more,  nothing less. But Harlin knows how to push your buttons; not the emotional  ones like Spielberg, but the gut-wrenching, visceral ones that make you  want to eat red meat and take no prisoners. (Sorry, I'm getting a little  carried away.)
Yeah, the plot is pretty simple. Scientists find a cure  for Alzheimer's in sharks' brains, must make sharks' brains bigger causing  them to get smart and do really bad things, stuff blows up, some people  die, some people make it. Most scenes can easily be deconstructed--this is  where the hero-stud tells Mr. Man how it really is, etc.--but so what, like  you're watching this movie (and it is a movie, not a film) for the nuanced  characters and subtle plot developments.
Maybe I'm selling the characters  short. Some are really bad, like the blond "Let me explain the layout  of Aquatica" chick and some are just awesome like Thomas "Boogie  Nights" Jane, as the hero-stud. This guy redefines the term. He's  saving lives, throwing out subtle one-liners, and just kicking tail and  taking names on practically a scene-by-scene basis. I could go on (and on)  but there are other things I must tell you.
For example, LL Cool J has  the best (ie chessiest) one liner: "It's feedin' time" (turn it  up and play it over and over again, baby!). Michael Rappaport is the  world's greatest underused comic actor. And Samuel L. Jackson? Where do I  begin? Just watch this movie and you'll know where I end.
This is not the  greatest movie I've ever seen. It definitely takes a particular mindset (I  know I'm repeating myself), but if you expect little, you will be awarded  with more than you could have possibly desired. Recommended (lesser) double  feature companion: Lake Placid (for Oliver Platt &amp; the sheriff, if  nothing else).