(This is the fifth time I've had to type this, so please excuse any errors)
I grew up with Pokemon.  My friends and I were obsessed with the show when we were younger.  (And some still are)  I watch it occasionally.  Now, don't get me wrong, I love the show, but I'd like to point out a few things:

A: Why do the mojority of young children become obsessed with the show?  Is Japan trying to brainwash our couch potatoe generation?

B: Why won't Broc (I hope I spelled his name right) ever open his eyes?  I've been waiting to find out what color eyes he has for the full 10 years that Pokemon has aired!  Even his family doesn't open their eyes, except his mother which I saw once.

Just think about these things for a moment and reflect on your life with Pokemon.  All the years of happiness and hours of watching tv and collection cards of your favorite pokemon.  Remember your first episode, your first favorite pokemon.  And now I ask why do we really need a box set?  Most of the time with this show, once I see one episode, I want to see the next, not the same once ten hundred times.  (I'll probably end up buying this eventually, but when I'm older and feel like catching up with my old friend Ash.

This DVD contains:
Disc 1:
1. Pok&eacute;mon - I Choose You!
2. Pok&eacute;mon Emergency
3. Ash Catches A Pok&eacute;mon
4. Challenge Of The Samurai
5. Showdown In Pewter City
6. Clefairy And The Moon Stone
7. The Water Flowers Of Cerulean City
8. The Path To The Pok&eacute;mon League
9. The School Of Hard Knocks

Disc 2:
10. Bulbasaur And The Hidden Village
11. Charmander-The Stray Pok&eacute;mon
12. Here Comes The Squirtle Squad
13. Mystery At The Lighthouse
14. Electric Shock Showdown
15. Battle Aboard The St. Anne
16. Pok&eacute;mon Shipwreck
17. Island Of The Giant Pok&eacute;mon
18. Tentacool & Tentacruel

Disc 3:
19. The Ghost Of Maiden's Peak
20. Bye Bye Butterfree
21. Abba And The Psychic Showdown
22. The Tower Of Terror
23. Haunter Verus Kadabra
24. Primeape Goes Bananas
25. Pok&eacute;mon Scent-Station!
26. Hypno's Naptime

Don't buy this DVD if you want the Japanese track!
Amazon lied to us about that.

I hope this helps you now.

Hey, I'd like to hear about your own favorite pokemon!  Write a comment about it and we'll get the discussion started!!!!!!!