This movie is awesome for so many reasons...  I had the game for my commodore as a kid...  Still nothing can compare to this movie...  The corporations today just about run the entire world just like in the movie...  So its really freaky when you watch to realize just how close it is to reality...  The sport in the movie is there to control the masses...  Give them something to watch and not realize whats going on...  Also to feed the Bloodlust that lurks in the souls of almost every human...  Nobody was ever sposed to be good or popular in it...  A player emerges that captures the hearts and minds of the people...  He is a threat to the corporate power that runs the entire world with iron fist...  Hides and lies about information and even kills and moves people around like cattle...  Those who are high up in the corporations have almost all the power...  The hero loses the woman he loves to someone high in some corporation... His heart is broken and he only has the game left...  They try to get him to retire from the game...  Join the corporation, so that his power will not get any Stronger...  He rejects this, they can't understand the love and dedication he has to the game and his team...  For they have no humanity nor campassion in their heartless souls...  So they make the game change to where nobody will survive...  They change rules right during the season and it gets really brutal...  What was a game where people would get killed and die...  Becomes nothing more than a gladiator combat to the death with teams...  STill he does not buckle and he stays in the game...  You must see this movie and listen and watch very closely at the end...  Hear the words they chant, see what happens and try to understand...
I would not waste your time with the cheap remake of this movie...  Nothing could compare to how well done this movie was...  Get this movie and watch it and think about how things are for a while...  We might not have a sport like Rollerball but its not far from it...