Beneath it's sequined veneer, Robert Altman's Nashville recalls the director's acknowledged hero Jean Renoir and his 1939 masterwork The Rules of the Game. Like Rules, Nashville observes a society engulfed in its own pretensions and tells a cautionary tale that would later prove tragically prophetic (Rules was released on the eve of the German invasion; Nashville would predate John Lennon's assassination by 5-years). But it's the characters themselves that are most informed by the forbearance. There are more than a few strains of similarity between Henry Gibson's Haven Hamilton, for example, and Marcel Dalio's Robert de la Chesnay. Notice how Haven delivers the cloying ballad "For the Sake of the Children" to the Grand Ole Opry audience and compare to Chesnay's proud and self-conscious display of his latest calliope. Barbara Jean closely recalls Christine; a tortured starlet who grows exasperated amongst a throng of admirers. Likewise, Scott Glenn's marine approximates Andr&eacute; Jurieu and his pathetic single-minded devotion. Most notably, the running social commentary blaring from the omni-present presidential campaign van is a uniquely 70s Americana update to Octave, Renoir's own character who provides the "moral voice" in The Rules of the Game.

However, if the characters and plot points strike a similarity, the stylistic footprint left by each director could not be more different. Renoir's work is insular, meticulous and choreographed, whereas Altman's is expansive and consciously undisciplined. This allows for some moments of unsanitized satirical magic; witness the pom-pom rifle brigade at the airport or the giggling audience members at the Opry, but it also exposes Nashville's few major flaws. The beautifully understated satire sometimes boils over into screwball territory, as when Geraldine Chaplin interviews a phalanx of cars at a junkyard or a bit player pontificates about the Kennedy assassination. Likewise, the unannounced cameos by Hollywood actors; especially those from previous Altman pictures, smacks of self-parody and threatens to expose the transparency of the filmmaking process itself. Where this works beautifully in The Player, it stands out awkwardly in the country music universe of Nashville. Given the documentarian zeal of Altman's vision, however, one is more than willing to forgive him the occasional in-joke.