This is not a romance movie. Those who watch it as a romance movie will be disappointed. Apparently the people working for movie times websites didn't know what genre to put Vanilla Sky under. Even though there is a 'love story' inside the movie, I wouldn't go into the movie expecting a romance.
With that said, there is another way to watch this movie. Forget all your ideas of what this movie is supposed to be. Because not all movies are made to depict reality. Vanilla Sky is pure art expression. The scenes, coupled with a great soundtrack, depict something straight from the director/writer's mind. Lots of movies are applauded for technical expertise, which isn't bad. (Like the attention to detail Stanley Kubrick had for his movies. Or Steven Spielberg and his story expertise.) But, 'Sky' doesn't need to be technical. You have to watch it from a different mind set. To love this movie, you must understand what it feels like to be trapped in a dream. You must understand why the main character would make the choices that he did. This is the first movie that has, in my opinion, properly depicted a nightmare. I would almost go as far as putting this movie under science fiction. But, these ideas of lucid dreams seem so real. Another movie that I saw that comes close to the same idea of Vanilla Sky is Jacob's Ladder. I recommend both movies.
One of the only reasons this movie falls short of it's potential is that the script tends to assume that nobody will understand it. The movie, at the end, is constantly trying to explain itself. In that way, the movie tends to stray from it's intent.
Very early in the movie, Cameren Crowe starts to give you the impression that something isn't quite right with the main character. It's not necessarily concrete evidence. It's just this huge exhilarating feeling. I wondered if the movie was really going to turn into the movie I wanted it to be when I was about one-third of the way into it. Then it all unfolded beautifully, as if I was in someone else's mind. I believe Cameren Crowe wanted to express what was in his head. Not that the plot/story was a new idea - it was just that, I believe Cameron understood the story on a higher level than most. I love Crowe for making this movie just as much as I love the movie itself.