Warning: spoilers! Don't read if you don't want to know key plot points.
Wonderful and funny Jungian story. Background: Jung would argue that we repress those qualities we don't like in ourself onto our "Shadow" self, and that our conscious is in constant conflict with our shadow in order to preserve the illusion of the "mask" or false self that we believe we are and that we present to the world.  Thus, the qualities that we've repressed onto the Shadow, we associate with the enemy and we project them onto the world.  So those qualities that we loath most in others are precisely those qualities that we secretly loath in ourselves - and in order to attain psychological wholeness we must recognize, embrace, and re-integrate the Shadow (unconscious).
The screenwriter here, Charlie, abhors shallowness and superficiality in his craft and strives to write movies of substance without having to resort to formulas &amp; gimmicks.  He resents having to pander to the shallowness of the audience and feels that he has risen above this, but really he has just repressed it onto his shadow (represented by his twin, Donald) who is his exact opposite: shallow and unbothered by artistic considerations.
Charlie, is racked by insecurity and self-loathing (the result of his inner battle), while Donald is confident and oblivious to self-judgment.  So, in order to become whole, Charlie first has to realize his state of conflict (represented by his writer's block), recognize the value in his shadow self (he seeks Donald's opinion and help), and work to reintegrate the unconscious (they work together on the screenplay) so that he can achieve psychological wholeness - which is represented in the movie by the brother dying (the unconscious ceases to exist because it has been reintegrated).  At the end of the movie Charlie having become whole is no longer judgmental or insecure but rather is hopeful and healthy.
Note: Adaptation as a title is an interesting play on words, also, because the movie deals with the evolutionary process of Adaptation in orchids, the process of writing a screen adaptation of a novel, and most importatly the process of several characters (Charlie especially) negotiating (some successfully, others not) the process of personal adaptation when faced with life's challenges.
Another note:  the movie is its own "Shadow".  It preaches against cheesey literary techniques while employing them liberally at the same time (such as voice overs, the use of twins to display two sides of one's personality, and ultimately resorting to gratuitous sex, violence and action to compensate for lack of substance).  Hilarious!