The VHS 2001 version of The Great Gatsby encompassed a wide range of good aspects, along with some that are not so good. From characterization to the plot line, I believe that a lot of this movie could be held in either good or bad light, depending on what you place higher value on.
First of all, I believed that the writers did an impecible job of converting this really long book into a movie.  There basically wasn't ANYTHING different from the book to the movie, which is incredably hard to do.  This also contributed to the movie skipping around a little bit, and there wasn't as much time for character development.  Although this was a little of a downfall because the characters are so complex, I believe that it was imparitive for them to make that sacrifice because of the important events in the plotline.
Although I feel that it was important for some sacrifices to be made on part of the storyline, there were some character sacrifices that just went.. well... too far. First of all, I believe that the woman who played Jordan was not at all right for the part. I imagined her as a more athletic, blonde woman, instead of a small black haired woman.  Also, I feel that her significance was too much slimmed down in the movie.  Allright, I know that she doesn't even appear that much in the book, but her minute performance in this movie wasn't even relevant to the plot, and her presence wasn't really explained other than the fact that she was in the book, and therefore needed to be put into the movie.  Oh well.
Another character that I thought needed help was Gatsby.  I believe that the man who played him was perfect for the part in terms of looks, but that his portrayal of Gatsby was somewhat off. First of all, he seemed way too arrogant.  The Gatsby that Fitzgerald wrote about was supposed to be more unsure of himself, and constantly making sure everything is perfect.  That is one of the main things that was over-looked in this movie; Gatsby's obsession with the past, and making everything perfect for when Daisy finally comes to see him.  I don't think that enough impact was placed on the fact that Gatsby had been obsessing over the moment when he would meet Daisy again for his whole life, and that it was the moment everything he had worked for would build up to.  Therefore, when they first met, I felt that the moment wasn't shown as being big enough in Gatsby's eyes.  However, although there were some problems with characterization, there were some people who did a perfect job of portraying their character.
The people who played Daisy and Nick, in my eyes, were absolutley perfect.  They completely captured the essences of both characters, which was especially hard to do in Daisy's case, because she was such a complex person.  It is apparent how much time the two of them must have spent working on these parts, and also that they had both read the book, for these characters are impossible to thoroughly understand without knowledge of Fitzgerald's writing style, and the more complex aspects of the plot.
In general, I feel that this movie did an excellent job of summing up the plot in The Great Gatsby, but that some of the characters were off. However, this is a risk that all directors are willing to take while casting a movie, and that you can never be sure of.  I believe that this movie is good in terms of keeping close to how the book was written, but I actually didn't enjoy The Great Gatsby as a book that much, so it was hard for me to completely enjoy the movie. Thank you for your time reading my review!