I'm not a fan of Tom Cruise but for political thrillers it's his best movie since "a few good men" in 1993. The movie "Valkyrie" was better than anticipated. Stories about the German resistance are overdue but there is an institutionalised agenda to limit or stop public awareness about them. The most crucial part of the movie is the bomb plot on 20 July 1944 and the political coup. A German officer whom wasn't portrayed in the movie made a grave error and failed to ensure the operation Valkyrie codes had "highest priority" status when recieved by the German army. Consequently, the German army continued to recieve instructions from Adolf Hitlers headquarters and this is where the coup detat came unstuck. In the event the Valkyrie codes had "highest priority" status the German army would have ignored any further communications from Adolf Hitlers headquarters.

The coup of 20 July 1944 is proof there were sophisticated and significant efforts to obtain peace by the Germans. It was a peace the allies didn't want. The German resistance got no help at all from the allies who helped the French resistance and the Dutch resistance just next door. The most successful allied spy ring in Europe the "Lucy Spy Ring" under Rudolf Rossler in Switzerland continued to recieve intelligence reports from the German Resistance inside the German High Command (OKW) resulting with the demise at Stalingrad in 1942 and operation Citadel (Kursk) in 1943. In 1944 the German jet industry were producing thousands of Jet fighters and jet bombers by Arado, Messerschmitt and Heinkel. By 1943, the allies were intercepting ALL German radio traffic and allied knowledge of the advanced German military technology sharply became a mind set of allied greed to own the German jet fighters; jet bombers; high speed submarines; radio guided missiles and ballistic missiles.

The allies abandoned the German resistance (and peace) to achieve world technological supremacy instead and the German Resistance were "written out of history." There was no peace effort by the allies. The allied agenda imposed ultimatums of "unconditional surrender" terms that were a pretext to steal German property, scientists and the worlds most advanced military technology by military force through DDAY and the destruction of western Europe where tens of millions of people were killed. The allies broke the German Enigma code in 1942 and shark Enigma in 1943 and were intercepting all German radio traffic. The allied 24 hour bombing of Germany continued, impeding German supply lines, while ground forces slowly advanced into Germany to steal the worlds most advanced military technology and scientists by military force.

Ask yourself this question. Why would the allies need to impose ultimatums of "unconditional surrender" AT ALL on the Germans and launch "operation overlord" or DDAY which destroyed western Europe and killed many millions of people when there was already a very sophisticated network of conspirators "the German resistance" within the German High Command (OKW) trying to overthrow Adolf Hitler, close the concentration camps and obtain peace in 1943. The allied priority to conduct repeated bombing raids with Lancaster bomber squadrons dropping "tall boy" bombs on the Tirpitz battleship in Norwegian fjords in 1944(a second Bismark battleship make)INSTEAD of dropping them on Adolf Hitler in the wolf's lair in East Prussia shows the true allied intentions. The selfish and self interested allies turned their backs on the German resistance whom were "written out of history" along with the "Lucy Spy Ring" to conceal the big LIE. When the allies obtained the German "unconditional surrender" in 1945 the allies turned their backs on their Russian "allies" resulting in fifty years of "The Cold War" with weapons based on German industrial achievements, technology, and scientists taken from the Germans at the end of world war two.

Science, history, and current affairs are loaded with deceptions and untruths. Satan fooled the whole world he doesn't exist. "The thief comes in the back door to steal, kill, and destroy."

Four stars for a movie devoid of capturing the grand architecture from wartime Germany.