Some will say this flick is not all that original but that is not the case.  It has a bit of "Saw" in it where "normal" folks are put in a group situation of dire straits and then they have to decide individually whether or not they will turn on their friends.  And but for a few minor flaws, the movie does what it does well and that's to shock, scare, and keep the viewer on the edge of their seats.

The flick starts with a man in a sanitarium who is about to be released.  He's basically had a nervous breakdown because during a cliff climbing adventure, his rope was about to snap, so to save himself he cuts the rope below him which dooms three of his friends who fall to their death.  We do discover however he is not completely innocent because he was charged with 2nd degree murder as a result and he got a plea bargain to stay out of prison.

Flashforward:  we have a group of 7 friends go to the weathly ones parent's lake house to celebrate their future graduation.  Hooking up with the stepsister who was vacationing there already, we have a group of eight who are by nightfall told that only one of them can survive or they all die by morning.  As a result, they are all must either trust or distrust their friends, girl/boyfriends, and stepsibling in a life or death game between some psycho but even more so, each other.

Besides a few out of place exposition moments, the film really moves well.  The acting is really good and the emotional struggles the folks go through are as real as you'd think.  The bad quality of some of the people comes right out while others have hearts of gold.  Others in the group of 8 have qualities who are in the middle where they are very good folks but they also do not want to die and become conflicted and seem to bounce around before settling to mostly supportive and helpful roles within the group of friends.

As a whole, this film is really good.  The people, though mostly good people, show the realism of a gray between the black and white of life but unlike most horror films with silly conversions to evil or over the top psychopaths, this film gives a new spin of people who fall closer to good without being silly caricatures of good and evil.  And some of their backstories make the weaker ones seem confused and more real.

For the exploitation film buff from the blood and boobs crowd, there is definately a lot of blood and gore and the women are very, very attractive and dressed mostly in provocative clothing, not surprising for a summer time vacation at a lakehouse.  So any fan of horror, slasher, thriller, or exploitation films will enjoy.  Highly recommended.