The Movie Itself tells the story of how one smooth talking, habitual liar of an attorney "Fletcher Reede" (played by Jim Carey) is forced by his son's birthday wish to have to tell the truth for the next 24 hours. From the second his son "Max" (played by Justin Cooper) blows out his birthday candles until that exact time the next day "Fletcher" (a shady lawyer) is in for 24 hours of telling "the whole truth and nothing but the truth."

This movie for it's time was a huge hit and allowed star Jim Carey to portray a character that looked normal (meaning not have to wear a wig, make-up, etc.) but still allowed him to be able to do his crazy spontaneous comedy type of acting at the same time. This film is not only hilarious and one that is sure to make you laugh but it's also kind of touching the story between the father, son. Obviously not as much so as just downright how funny Jim Carey is in this film. Even with all the other ratings considered this is still a film worth checking out if you have never seen it.

Video Quality on this release is 1080p VC-1 on a 15 gigabyte HD DVD disc. To be a film from 1997 and only on a HD-15 (15gb HD DVD) the video quality here looks really good I think over the original DVD. I for one owned the original `97 DVD release which was actually a 4:3 Fullscreen version, so for me this is almost like night and day but still it's nothing worthy of a 5 star rating. Honestly at times I have to say this is almost just as good as the video transfer for "Bruce Almighty", the other Jim Carey film released the same day on HD DVD. There is some obvious film grain in a few scenes that just hasn't been cleaned up. This translates into some very noticeable film noise in the video presentation from time to time. This is I guess to be expected from a 1997 release like this but I'd have to say the video transfer is an improvement overall and very watchable.

Audio Quality on this release is in Dolby Digital Plus 5.1 @ 1.5Mbps which is an improvement over the original DVD releases' Dolby Digital tracks but still nothing that amazing. It gets 3 stars for being an improvement over the original DVD and really that is why it gets this audio quality rating. The film is primarily dialog driven anyway so it really doesn't matter too much about an improvement in audio quality here. This film is mostly about Jim Carey's character and his hilarious dialog he dishes out once his son has makes the birthday wish. You're most likely going to be laughing so hard at some points I doubt you'll hear too much of the movie's sound over yourself.

Bonus Materials appear to be nothing more than the latest DVD release's ("Collector's Edition") bonus materials ported over and presented in 4:3 standard definition. Really disappointing as you'd expect but let's begin with what all you'll find here. First off there's audio Commentary by Director Tom Shadyac. "Bridging the Comedy Chasm" (16 minutes) starts off to appear to be nothing more than Jim Carey goofing off but soon we get interviews not only from him but also the producer, Director Tom Shadyac and other cast members like the young Justin Cooper. This proves to really showcase Jim obviously more than anybody but it still is worth watching and has some laughs. "Deleted Scene" (4 minutes) is just what you'd expect. Only one deleted scene here obviously but it's a good one if I say so myself. It shows "Fletcher Reede" in a court case (which would have been shown probably near or at the beginning of the film if it had not been deleted) defending this big neanderthal of a criminal against this little old man in a neck brace. It's "Fletcher" at his finest when he could lie. This scene honestly shouldn't have been deleted if you ask me. It's worth 4 minutes of pure laughter, I think anyway. Last we get a very horrible quality (for both video and sound) version of the original Theatrical Trailer to the film. These bonus materials are nothing short of really disappointing as I started this off saying. The only reason this got as high of a rating as it did for bonus materials is the fact Universal not only includes bookmarks now but the ability to make In and Out's to your favorite scenes. If it were not for that, this would have been rated probably 1 or 1 1/2 stars.

-- Review written by Justin Sluss