I may have liked this movie for different reasons than some of the other reviewers. I didn't necessarily find it inspiring or particularly beautiful, but I did think it was very intelligent, thought provoking, consistent, and well directed/acted. It's basically a film about independence and freedom, and how those can be terrible, isolating things when taken to the extreme. For those who thought the minor characters were too distracting, try to think about them in that context.

It's almost like the minor characters are there to warn the main character that even though living your own life is great, a lack of human interaction makes that freedom painful. These are lessons he fails to realize at every turn, whomever he meets, (instead he feels like he is there to enlighten them) and this selfish interpretation of independence is his tragedy.

Think about why he dies: not only has he tried to do everything himself, which is a mistake on this kind of trip, (again, there were warning signs, like he should have figured this out when the moose killing thing went bad) but he's either so devoted to his dream or so frightened to go back and face the family he's running away from that there is nowhere to run to anymore. I guess living by independence means dying by it.

There's a key scene in the middle, where he goes to the homeless shelter in LA, then sees himself getting sucked into the upper middle class hypocrisy he hates. Even though this is irrational -- if he can strike out on his own with a backpack, he can also do so in a more socially integrated way  -- he turns away from going back to his old name. He does realize eventually that it was a mistake, but like all tragic figures, it is only after it is too late to change anything.

I think most people knew a guy like this in college, the upper middle class "rebel" who could have done anything and then took to the road after graduation, but eventually came back to sell out and work on wall street. maybe that's why this book was so popular -- because this guy took it to the extreme and he died, thus reinforcing others' decisions to rebel a little, but then run back home to mommy and daddy. Put in that way, the people who like the book and film for these reasons don't come across so well.

Truly a provocative and interesting film -- those are just my thoughts, but I think you should see it and decide for yourself.