First, let me point out that the transgender issue does *not* take the forefront in this film.  Despite the title, which most attribute to the main character's journey from a man to a woman, it means much more than that.  The prefix "trans" implies a crossing or a journey, in this case both literally (across the country, from New York to Los Angeles) and figuratively (as Bree gains the understanding of what is truly important in her life).

Without a doubt, Felicity Huffman is brilliant and truly remarkable in her role as Bree Osbourne, a transgendered individual whose life is anything but simple.  Even in the opening minutes of the film, it becomes crystal clear that her primary focus is on completing her transformation by undergoing her scheduled gender reassignment surgery.  She is deceived when she thinks this will be a simple process, as she soon sets out on a trip to bail a young man out of jail.  There's one catch:  the young man is her son and only knows that he hasn't seen his father (Huffman) in years.

A journey of discovery soon follows, as Bree travels with young Toby cross-country.  As they begin to understand one another, Bree struggles with the notion of telling Toby the truth.  It is only then that she begins to understand that there might be other important things in her life that she never before considered.

Felicity Huffman should be commended for her portrayal of the proper yet outspoken Bree.  Her performance is, at times, heartwrenching yet astute, and in every scene she is right on the mark.  Kevin Zegers also does a strong job of playing the misguided Toby, a teenager with countless problems who seems to secretly long for a loving parent to hold onto.

Don't be fooled, however -- in spite of the many wry, witty moments, TRANSAMERICA runs in a vein much deeper than a conventional comedy:  it is, at the same time, a powerful story of love and the struggle of self-discovery.  Rent or buy it with an open mind, and you're sure not to be disappointed.  Very highly recommended.