before I review this movie. let me tell you my favorites. it is very hard to judge a review from someone, if you're really not sure you even like the same style..  my top 3 Favorites..... now elena undone, loving annabelle, imagine me & you. I also love,  I can't think straight, claire of the moon, gray matters.  Hope this helps.

this isn't just an absolute must see.  this is an absolute must own.  from start to finish I was enthrawled, inspired, and lost myself in this movie.  I can't seem to watch anything else.

although I am a fan of claire of the moon. this movie truly shows nicole conn at the absolute top of her game. the cinematography, and the script cannot be touched.

the characters not only beautiful, captivate you immediately.  you find yourself embarking on a journey that saddens you when it has to come to a close.  2 women who find friendship, admiration, equality, love and the truth behind the meaning of.....soulmates.

yes, again as in many movies 1 of them of course is married, to top it off her husband is a preacher.  and although it sounds of the typical. lesbian meets straight married woman and converts her,,, bla bla.  it is truly nothing of the sort

Elena has a love for photography.  but of course manages a family so her love for taking pictures takes a backseat.

peyton is a writer, of course the lesbian in the movie.  and finds a real admiration for elena's work.  as does elena for peyton.

how'd they meet is classic.  how this friendship begins is divine.  Elena finds herself attracted to the spirit of peyton and soon doesn't know how to be away from her friend.  Peyton on the other hand, finds herself in a place she never thought she'd be.

this movie also has the longest homosexual or heterosexual on screen kiss in history.

the love scenes , yes I said scenes, plural.  are erotic, passionate, tantalating and show the true depth of love between 2 women.  2 women who fall in love with each other, not the gender that is so common in a lot of lesbian movies.

you'll grow as a person, as u r touched by the kindred spirits of these characters.  you will lose yourself in their world. you will regain faith through their journey. and you will open your heart to believe that you can fall in love all over AGAIN....

this movie is intoxicating and u will want to watch it over and over again. definitely the best money I have ever spent.  there is no way and I repeat no way you could possibly be disappointed in this movie.  finally a movie that totally takes u in.  I laughed,  I cried and I found a reason to believe that my soul mate may still be out there.

trust enough to buy this video.  and let this be one regret you WON'T  have in your life.