I loved this movie from the opening credits. It was great to watch, and Brad Pitt's depiction of Achilles could not have been better. I was raised on "The Iliad" by Homer. There are some innacuracies to the movie, however, it was those innacuracies that I was interested in the most. First, Achilles in the Trojan Horse; Achilles in the Epic Cycle (Pre-Iliad and Post Epic poems in which most no longer exist) is killed at the hand of Paris upon entering a gate of Troy by a poinsoned arrow directed by Apollo. However, here he is in the Trojan Horse. He ends up attempting to find his 'prize; Bresis, whom was given back to her uncle, King Priam of Troy. Now, Patroclus in the Iliad is not described as Acilles' cousin. However, if one investigates further (unlike the review written by someone who knows little: Garag84) Achilles is Patroclus' cousin. Hesiod, a contemporary of Homer, wrote some of the Homeric Hymns, and his translated works can be found through the Loeb Classical Library "Hesiod: Homeric Hymns, Epic Cycle, and Homerica." He is the best resource we have other than the Iliad for the life of Achilles. Under a chapter called "Catalogues of Women and Eoiae" on fragment 61, it says:

  for Hesiod says that Menoetius the father of Patroclus, was a brother of Peleus [Achilles father] so that in that case they were first cousins.

Now, not many know of Hesiod, therefore I do not blame Garak84 for his depiction of Achilles if "The Iliad" was all that he read. I mainly wrote this review to set the record straight, and say that there are resources available that do in fact, refer to Patroclus as Achilles cousin. All in all, this was not meant to be a review of the movie, but rather a review of the character of Achilles portrayed by Brad Pitt.

Also I might add, the Trojan Horse is not mentioned in "The Iliad" either, nor is the death of Achilles. In fact, we only know of Achilles' death through the Epic Cycle, or Medievil mythology of Achilles, where he was stabbed by Paris, being betrayed believing he was joining the Tojan side if he could marry a Trojan woman.

All in all, if one watches Troy and enjoys it, I highly recomend they read "The Iliad" which takes place during the 10th year of the war, and is the final days of Achilles and Hector. If one has already read this, then I push them to read fragment of the Epic Cycle, which give another view of Achilles. He battles the Amazon Warriors, kills a Queen, and falls in love with the dead body. He kills Memnon, who bring the Ethiopians to help Troy (found in framents of Aethiopis) and then meets his doom at the gates of Troy. It also discusses the Funeral Games of Achilles, and the suicide of Ajax. I believe that in order to know Brad Pitt's character, one must first learn of the great Achilles.