This is by far the most disturbing, horrific, disgusting movie I have ever seen.  I think everyone involved in creating this movie: especially the writers, directors, and producers should be criminally prosecuted for making this movie.  This is not an art form - it is a heinous way to showcase the perverse capability of the human mind and the sick enjoyment of severely disturbed individuals who enjoy creating movies about human mutilation and torture.  Unlike many other horror movies where the victims die a quick death, this is sick and twisted torture which will make any person who does not belong in a mental institution literally vomit.  The disturbed individuals who created this movie need to be medicated and sentenced to life in a mental institution.  I am not exaggerating.  I seriously believe that it is frightening to know that something this sick could be thought of in a human mind and then that something this disturbing would compel someone to actually create this into a movie.  I think if people even have these thoughts and then especially if they share these thoughts, there is no self-control and that it is a sign of severe mental and pyschological problems.  These twisted people are a danger to our world and they need to be criminally prosecuted and punished.  This gives sick and perverse freaks who actually do harm others ideas and the fact that they are making this movie for those twisted monsters is what is the most upsetting.  The only people who gave this good reviews are people who have some major mental disorders and need help themselves.  Nobody with compassion and a heart with feeling for others can sit through this film and not cry and become nauseated.  It is truly horrible and I will have nightmares about this for the rest of my life.  I can only hope that someday films like this will be banned and that their creators will be charged criminally and forced to receive psychological help.  Do not watch this movie.  I hope that I can spare another kind-hearted person from the type of emotional pain and trauma that this movie will cause you.