When I read these reviews, I was amazed to see that hardly anyone mentioned the incredible performance of Benicio Del Toro. As Fenster, Del Toro's abilities as one of the finest charcter actors of our time shine.  His unusual delivery,  impeccable timing, physical acting and expressive  features allow him to give his character amazing depth. He creates layers  for his characters and systematically peels them back. His mumbling,  hiariously accented delivery of his lines and his jerky movements provide  the film with the comic releif it needs. You may not know what to make of  Fenster (or even what he's saying), but you're garanteed to laugh. Del Toro  has amazing charisma and steals all of his scenes. My only complaint with  the film is that he doesn't get enough screen time. With several films  coming out soon, he will hopefully get the recognition he deserves. I can't  praise him enough- he is fantastic.  In addition to Del Toro's magnetic  performance, Kevin Spacey's portrayl of Verbal Kint is womderful. Both men  are tremendous physical actors, defining their characters through their way  of moving and speaking. Spacey's acting is so different from that of a  typical Hollywood star that I'm not at all surprised by some of the  negatice reactions to it.  However, Spacey plays a man who himself must act  during his testimony, which justifies his somewhat self-conscious and  akward performance. The rest of the cast is also terrific, with the  possible exception of Gabriel Byrne, whose performance seems strained at  times. Stephen Baldwin is a real surprise- he creates a volatile and  violent character. Kevin Pollack's charcacter provides a sarcastic and  down-to-earth center for the more flamboyant cast members. Both Palminteri  and Postlethwaite give strong performances. As for the plot twist at the  end- it may not be entirely surprising, but it doesn't negate the entire  film. Most of the major events have to have happened for proof of them  exists. The point is that Soze wanted to destroy the men who were in his  way without giving away his identity or that of his colleagues. I also  think he wanted to have a little fun with the arrogant cops. Regardless of  the ending, the movie is worth seeing if only for the acting. It is also  stylishly directed and filmed with a smart and darkly humorous script.