This Collector's Edition is worth getting for the extras alone. They have a useful discussion about the increasing challenge of TV to Classical Hollywood in the early 50s a reference to Elia Kazan,"On the Waterfront"  (1954) a  HUAC "friendly witness" and Edward Dmytryk, the only one of the Hollywood Ten to turn around and name names. ~ Australians here may remember the (destroyer) Voyager Incident of 1964 ~ was she cut in half by the carrier Melbourne. Inquest witnesses frequently referred to quote: "a Caine Mutiny situation" aboard Voyager.

Anyway, The Caine Mutiny was made at the tail end of the "movie star era", so there's a danger of being dazzled by the "Boggie aura" and not being objective about the actions of the troubled Capt.Queeg, or even noticing the good job Bogart does in the role.

Fred McMurray too, has a powerful screen presence and he plays the devious Lt. Tom Keefer with a darkness not seen since his Walter Neff in "Double Indenity;" a complete contrast to his fatherly, "My Three Sons" personae. Yet McMurray's "star appeal" can also obscure his "thinking preformance" - he clearly lets you read every "shifty" thought on Keefer's face. Keefer only verbalises his true colors (no pun) when he "'fesses up" to a "yellow streak 10 miles wide," after Maryk corners him into seeing Admiral Halsey about Queeg.

There is an interesting association with cowardice and the color yellow here; we have Queeg, throwing the yellow dye marker in panic and running from duty and Keefer's calculating, "too smart to be brave" yellow as he runs from responsibility - who then, is the true coward and why?

Van Johnson is on "safe" ground; Lt. Steve Maryk, is an extension of his own affable, fair minded self, a qualilty that prevents him from understanding that Keefer's duplicity and deflected hatred of the Navy will make him legally culpable of mutiny.

Jos&eacute; Ferrer is a commanding screen presence at any time, and he makes Lt. Barney Greenwald seem to have been there for the entire picture. Ferrer plays his final scene with intimidating indignation - he has been drinking he says, to assuage "his guilty conscience" and we learn for the first time of his dilemma in defending Maryk.

Still you can put meditations on the complexities of human nature aside if you want and take "The Caine Mutiny" as pure wartime action, but you'd miss the little payoffs. It took me a long time, for example, to notice one small give-away detail; the dismissal of Comdr. DeVriess (Tom Tully) as a "slack" commanding officer by the rather affectless Robert Francis as Ens. Willis Seward Keith. The J.G.'s assessment seemed valid enough - until I noticed DeVriess timing Maryk's, perfomance on the paravanes with a stop-watch!

DeVriess had the maturity and experience to know how and when to get the best out of his command, but he will not push his "tired crew" and "beaten up tub that ought to be melted down for razor blades," beyond their frayed limits. A "slack" commander, Willie? Sometimes you just have to trust the captain to steer the right course, even if you don't!

The moral complexity of the mutiny on the Caine is further complicated by Queeg's honesty and humility in seeking "constructive loyalty" from his officers after the "yellow stain" incident. His officers' rejection of his plea raises questions about subordination to lawful authority.

Greenwald carefully avoids these explosive issues in the court-martial, but not so with Keefer at the "joyful celebration." He elicits support from Maryk, "You're an honest man, Steve. Tell me, do you think it would have necessary for you to have taken command if you'd given Queeg the loyalty and support he deserved?" ~ (powerful stuff.)

The Caine Mutiny is great war film: good to see it out on DVD. Also the commentary track and the extra features have a lot on interesting information on the problems in Hollywood with falling ticket sales and the reasons why war films were popular at the time.
THe two extras on the blacklist and especially about Edward Dmytryk, the only one of the Hollywood 10 who eventually  "named names," were interesting as well as references to Elia Kazan and his use of Terry Malloy in "On the Waterfront" to justify his own testemony before HUAC.