This is going to sound strange, but "Ravenous" is a very intelligent movie about cannibals, vampirism (of an unusual sort) and the history of the west. At it's heart is a metaphor about power, exploitation, and ravenous greed. It is much more than simply a thriller, horror, slasher picture.
It is set during the time of westward expansion in the youthful United States, which is significant for discovering what the movie is all about. This movie wouldn't make sense in 20th century Manhattan, or in 1930s Chicago. It is set during a time when european settlers still had a long way to go towards 'conquering' most of North America. 
Without giving too much away of the bizarre and twisted plot, the movie explores not only cannibalism, but cannibalism as a means of regaining life, energy, or power. You eat another, you take the life energy of that person. This notion of cannabalism (which is more along the lines of mythology than of a slasher movie) allows the movie to be completely unpredictable, disturbing and poignant all at once. At the end of the movie, one realizes that it would've been almost impossible to have guessed what was going to happen at each plot turn. If you enjoy bizarre, almost surreal surprises, this movie is packed with them.
The crucial moment in the film is towards the end when Robert Carlyle's character is rhapsodizing about "manifest destiny." Here it is revealed that what's behind the ravenous hunger depicted in the film is a statement about how the west was won, and perhaps still being won. There's a lot in this film to chew on (it's impossible to avoid stupid puns when writing about movies in which people are eaten, sorry), and "Ravenous" does not belong in the same category as B-slashers or gore or shock flicks.
In fact, it's almost impossible to determine what category to put "Ravenous" in. People who avoid gore movies will probably also want to avoid this one (it can be pretty disgusting), and people who enjoy gore and slash will probably feel disappointed because there's simply more going on than random and senseless killing. It's no surprise that this movie bombed, and it will probably gain cult status and continue to confuse most viewers, but for that reason it will probably be around for a while.
The performances are great all around, but Robert Carlyle really, really shines. The story is so original it nearly defies categorization, and the opening sequence is one of the best I've ever seen. The music is meant to be off-kilter and dissonant, which adds to the film's offbeat tempo.
Overall a great movie, but one that may confuse viewers. It's not a comedy (though it is funny), it's not a slasher/thriller (though it is gorey and thrilling), and it's not a western (though it is set in the right era). The best thing to do is see it and find out. You may hate it, or you may never be able to stop thinking about it. There are not many movies like this out there.