It's amazing that Hollywood has made comparatively few movies about the American Revolution, despite the great drama and conflict as a newly-united group of colonists decided they had suffered too much at the hands of their home country.  Taxation was certainly a major factor in the decision of the Americans to break away from Great Britain.  The overwhelming factor, of course, a desire for greater freedom, especially since King George III seemed to be indifferent to their fate and situation.  Once the decision was made to revolt, and the King was sent the Declaration of Independence, the course was established.

This film, as well as Mel Gibson's powerful "The Patriot," makes it clear what Americans suffered and endured in their desire to be free.  They learned they could only succeed through guerilla warfare, when they faced a highly trained, disciplined British Army, which was used to wearing brightly-colored uniforms, marching in straight lines, and being accompanied by a military band!  The Americans followed the Native American's example by hiding behind trees, bushes, and rocks and firing at the British soldiers as they marched in formation.

Both films also make it quite clear that, despite the American ingenuity and imagination (and the help of some German and French officers), they had a long, hard fight in defeating the British.  This film focuses on a somewhat different battle, or series of battles, in which a small group of British officers utilized members of the Mohawk tribe to defeat the Americans.  Of course, the Mohawks were undoubtedly upset anyway because the American settlers had invaded their lands.

In this film, John Ford narrowed his focus on just a small part of the Revolutionary War and, in particular, showed its impact on a group of settlers/farmers in the Mohawk Valley.  Most of the story deals with newlyweds, portrayed by Henry Fonda and Claudette Colbert, who are having enough trouble simply adjusting to married life and the challenges of trying to survive in what was then the western wilderness.  That probably would have been a story in itself, but this one shows the added dangers and threats of a war.  They lose everything in the first attack and must then live with a wealthy widow, who later loses much of her property and then her life.  It is a constant struggle for all of the settlers to survive in the midst of such overwhelming dangers.

Fonda joins a militia and quickly becomes friends with another settler, delightfully portrayed by Ward Bond, John Wayne's longtime friend.  They are roused by the preaching of a rather unconventional but patriotic parson portrayed by another of John Ford's favorite actors, Arthur Shields.  The battle sequences are quite spectacular for their time and we get a good idea of the horrors of war, especially in the aftermath of one battle where the surviving, wounded soldiers are tended at the widow's house.  (The widow, by the way, is a feisty lady portrayed by Edna Mae Oliver.)

The use of three-strip Technicolor in this film was an additional factor.  This was actually John Ford's first film in full color.  Technicolor was still relatively new in 1939 and it had only been three years since the bulky, very heavy Technicolor cameras had been used outdoors.  The Technicolor company has first thought it would be impossible to guarantee accurate colors unless the cameras were used in the studio with controlled lighting.  The first time Technicolor finally agreed to allow its cameras outside was in 1936 in "The Trail of the Lonesome Pine."  Even then, Technicolor always mandated that a consultant be present during filming.

Three, synchronized strips of film were run through the cameras and they were later combined in the laboratory to produce a full, vivid range of color.  The color separations in the three negatives were preserved under controlled conditions, making it possible for most of these early color films to be fully restored many years later.  That is why so many of the three-strip Technicolor films have been restored for release on video and they still have excellent color.  There was, of course, a tendency to be rather garish at times, but this adds to the vividness of such wonderful films as this.

Yes, 1939 was probably the greatest year in the history of the movies.  The Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences had a long list of nominated films for Best Picture and it was probably difficult for voters to finally agree that "Gone With The Wind" was the greatest of all that year's memorable films.  Certainly "Drums Along The Mohawk" ranks high among the films of 1939 and it is also among the best of John Ford's numerous outstanding films.  Little wonder that the legendary genius Orson Welles also said that John Ford was the greatest of all directors, a true master, despite his notorious reputation as a tyrant or martinet, who would criticize and even humilitate ANY actor who he felt wasn't doing his best.

Adding to this a very enjoyable, very exciting, and very touching film is a musical score by Twentieth Century Fox's longtime musical director, Alfred Newman, who also composed the famous fanfare that has introduced most of Fox's films since 1935.  Newman later composed the music for Fox's very first CinemaScope release, "The Robe," in 1953.  He was known for rather majestic, inspiring music; he was also capable of writing very sensitive tunes.  One hears a good sampling of Newman's musical abilities in this film.