Like several other reviewers, I am something of a Close Encounters connoisseur, having viewed every different cut of this movie since the original 1977 release.  My least favorite, by far, was the so-called "Special Edition" that was released in 1980 and for years was the only version available for home viewing.  I always felt that the deletion of certain scenes from that version made the story difficult to follow and the flow of the movie somewhat choppy.  The shot of Dreyfuss inside the Mother Ship killed much of the mystery and wonder that surrounded the ending in the original cut.  When the movie was aired on network TV back in the early 80's, a complete version was shown, including all of the original '77 footage and the additional "Special Edition" scenes edited together.  With the exception of the scene inside the spacecraft, this version would have to be my favorite.  As a fan, I feel like I'm getting the complete Close Encounters experience when I watch this cut of the film.  In every other version, somehow I feel cheated when a scene, or even a quick camera shot, is missing.  In 1990, Criterion released a laser disc version of this film that included all the footage.  My hope was that the "Collector's Edition," as this DVD edition is called, would also include the "complete" film.  While the Collector's Edition is a vast improvement over the Special Edition, I still find myself wishing that a few extra scenes could have been included in the main feature.  I always felt that the scene showing Neary at the power plant was necessary to explain to the viewer why he's out in the middle of nowhere looking for downed power lines.  This is on Disc 2 as a deleted scene, but without this short scene included in the main feature it requires the viewer to make an a cognitive jump in regard to the story-line, and is actually quite confusing to the first-time viewer.  Another deletion (that's not included on Disc 2) is where Neary "sees" the mysterious shape in a pillow at home.  Later in the film he refers to this previous vision, but since the scene referred to has been deleted in this version, it doesn't have the full impact on the viewer that it could.  There's a few other minor exclusions that die-hard fans will wish were on there.  Fortunately, Spielberg deceided NOT to include the interior shot of the spacecraft in the main feature, so the mystery remains (not to mention the end of the film flows a lot better without this additional scene, in my opinion).  I still feel the Criterion release on laser disc is superior, at least from a content perspective.  You had the option of watching the original '77 cut that was released in theaters, the 1980 "Special Edition," or a complete cut of the movie with all scenes, all depending on how you programmed your laser disc player.  Perhaps Criterion will see fit to re-release this movie on DVD using the same format as their previous laser disc set.  
In conclusion, I feel this cut (the "Collector's Edition") is excellent, the transfer seems good, and the documantary and extras on Disc 2 are a real treat.  Nevertheless, truly die-hard fans will find themselves wanting a slightly more complete cut of the film.