An unsuspecting quiet town, a mayor with a deadly secret, a lake full of Nazi zombies. Everything is fine in undisclosed French village until an entire woman's basketball team goes for a skinny dip. Triggered by revenge and nudity, the Nazi zombies have declared war, will the town surrender, again?

To the reviewers that said the nudity in the opening credits was unneeded, you missed the point of the movie. The nudity was essential to the plot and kept me glued to the screen. I don't want to live in a world without nudity in the credits. These zombies are a brave re-imagining of the classic zombie. For one, they do not infect you and you do not become one of them when attacked. Secondly, they have no desire for brains, they bite you on the neck and leave no marks.

It's been said the green zombie makeup comes off after leaving the lake. You think this was by mistake? Keep those reviews on IMDB, this is a place for serious reviews. It was a metaphor for the fading influence of capitalism in the East.

The battle scenes were great and accurately showed the phasers used during WWII. Many movies incorrectly use modern day gunfire when a German rifle is shot, this movie correctly used the sound of a Starwars laser cannon. It's pew pew not bang bang, Speilberg. I still do not understand how the KKK got involved with this WWII film set in France, but they did and they also had the correct phaser cannons.

Some of the dialog is unnatural, which is why I only gave 4 stars. Each time someone finished talking, I thought to myself, "What an unusual thing to say." Also, this is nothing more than a softcore porn with green men and a lake.

[According to the RIAA I have no right to rate the contents of this disc, as they own that and its likeness, but I may review the physical disc itself. It is smooth, round, shiny on one side, has a hole in the middle. The hole in the middle was not mentioned in the product description but did not affect it's ability to play. More about the hole, a dime can pass through it but a quarter cannot, it's dead center on the disc.]