Topsy-Turvy (to the extent that it's "about" anything) is about Gilbert and Sullivan and the making of The Mikado (definitely one of their best works.) I love Gilbert and Sullivan's work, and I knew that the story of their relationship was very interesting. The previews also looked very interesting, so I was quite anxious to see this film. The actual film was hugely disappointing to me, however.
I am a firm believer in the importance of plot in filmmaking.  If you do not believe plot is important, or do not demand a fast pace in the absence of plot, you may quite enjoy the meandering nature of this visually appealing slice of Victorian life.  For me, though, the film never quite clicked on any level.
I could definitely see the things that others liked about the film: The casting was good, the acting was excellent, the cinematography was beautiful, and the film definitely reproduced the feel of its era effectively. It featured excellent renditions of several bits of The Mikado (though these performances were overly static in order to preserve the Victorian feel.)
What the film didn't do, though, was entertain, tell a really interesting story, or even educate effectively. It had all the elements of a great Victorian drama without much actual drama, and the elements of a refined Victorian comedy with very little actual humor.
There were far too many little subplots (drug-addicted singers, and the like) whose sole purpose seemed to be either to give bit players the opportunity to show they could act or to impart minor bits of historical information. The problem was, there was no follow-up on any of these scenes. Something seemingly momentous would happenm but there would be no effect on anything else anywhere in the movie. I realize that the filmmakers were trying for historical accuracy, but this is supposed to be a movie, not a documentary. (If it were a documentary, of course, they could just tell you what happened in such cases).
The film covers a relatively short period in the lives of Gilbert and Sullivan, and as a result we never get to see the real blow-ups between them (the arguments we see seem on the order of minor spats). We don't get to follow the development of their careers, the course of their relationship, or anything of the sort. We simply see how The Mikado got them out of a temporary creative rut, interspersed with random bits about the people in their lives. A number of scenes clearly had the feel of improvisations constructed on the spot to illustrate one fact or another, regardless of whether the fact really deserved the five minutes of screen time such an improvisation would take.
Also notably missing from the film was humor, which is particularly annoying since the film focused primarily on one of the foremost humorists in a time when people went to great effort to speak wittily. There were mildly humorous bits interspersed throughout, but not with sufficient frequency that this film could in any way be considered a comedy.
Perhaps tighter editing would at least have prevented the film from wandering quite so aimlessly. Perhaps a higher proportion of performance clips would have made the whole more lively. Perhaps the filmmakers could have chucked historical verisimilitude and just gone for an entertaining take on the whole story of Gilbert and Sullivan. As it is, though, I just felt that this film was mostly a waste of my time.