I loved this movie a lot, but I wonder what pro-lifers and radical right-wingers thought about it. 
Tobey McGuire is excellent as the shy, quiet, yet adorable hero named Homer Wells in this movie. He is not as gung-ho on being an abortionist as Dr. Larch (Michael Caine)seems to be in an orphanage/birth/abortion clinic. 
With very little forethought or explanation Homer decides to leave the only home he has ever known and tag along with a young couple. Candy (Charlize Theron) is about to return to her normal life after having an abortion. Wally is about to leave his normal life for the War. Homer, a pediatrician in every sense but the formal training and credentials, finds paradise in the incredibly simple life of an apple-picker. As such he rubs elbows with and shares a bunkhouse with African-American, illiterate, migrant workers. He falls in a kind of naive, complacent, passive, romantic/sexual love with Candy and gives little mind to how to keep her from getting pregnant again. 
The issue of incest pops up later but the details would reveal too much to the reader who hasn't yet seen the movie. The ending is not entirely predictable and very pleasant - in a tragi-comedy sort of way. 
McGuire is absolutely excellent and you really can find nothing to hate about him or his character. Caine is fair in a role that I think others would have excelled at. Theron is amazingly dull and her character would only attract McGuire's character given the latter's relative inexperience with girls/women (except, ironically, in gynecological skill). Kieron Culkin's Buster character pulls at your heart strings and you really get to know Arthur Rose (Delroy Lindo) and Rose Rose (Eryka Badu) even though most of the drama between the two occurs elsewhere.
  The movie has its problems. Candy is really not as sexy and loveable as she ought to be. Homer seems to be intellectually gifted yet picks apples for more than a full season without getting bored. He also fails to be assertive as the love of his life drifts away. The screenplay is quite shallow in many ways. For example, Homer is the only character developed in the orphanage scenes, despite the fact of having Jane Alexander, Kathy Baker, and several, endearing, child actors as a great supporting cast. At other times the screenplay is brilliant such as all the commentary slid in about abortion as a necessary evil which is at conflict with Homer's respect for life. Yet the bias towards pro-choice and the decriminalization of abortion is obviously too slanted. Likewise the incest issue is treated almost as being a tolerable evil when Homer and everyone else should be outraged by the taboo. I am not sure I can sympathize with a man who cuts another man for throwing a cigarrette butt in the cider yet tells Homer to mind his own business as to the biological father of Rose's unborn child.
  Still despite these problems I have enjoyed wathcing the movie every time (about 5) I have watched it. But then I wonder how more conservative people view it.