Two things caused me to give this film a rental: the comparisons to "Suspiria" and Bruce Campbell. Combining these two elements, this movie should have been a no-brainer. Most modern horror movies lack the sense of tension of the movies of the 80's and before. For example, "Halloween" is pretty tame in the gore department but the atmosphere, camera work and music combine to give the viewer the feeling of "What's going to happen next?" throughout. I can't think of one modern horror movie; aside from "High Tension", that creates that same sense of dread.

Well, you can toss "The Woods" into the "Nice Try" pile with the likes of other modern pseudo-horror like "Hostel". The premise is moderately similar to "Suspiria" in that both movies include witches and a school surrounded by woods but there is where the similarities end abruptly. The set pieces themselves are moderately good to a point but the way this film is lit, it is hardly intimidating at all. It reminds me of Hogwarts. Sadly, the girls in this school are able to scare the viewer in the same way Harry Potter might, which is to say that if you are 6 years old and Harry Potter movies cause you to leap from your seat, "The Woods" might be up your alley if you are seeking a good scare.

With that said, the plot or story really unimportant. Basically, the school is run by witches and the woods surrounding the school are haunted by three witches from the 1800's. This might be somewhat effective if the witches in the school were a little creepier than the ones we are given but again, the intimidation factor is on par here with that of some cheesy Halloween made-for-TV movie on ABC Family Channel. The death knell for me (aside from the snail's pace  at which this movie plods along) was the main antagonist -- the woods themselves. The trees come to life and claim victims inside the school, specifically the one that sleeps in the bed at the end near the window. Game over.

Nope, not even Bruce Campbell could save this movie from being an overhyped letdown. In addition, Lucky McKee's entry in the Masters Of Horror series "Sick Girl" was also only moderately interesting in premise only. The actual episode was hampered by poor acting by the lead actress and a complete lack of horror sensibility. So, if you truly must see "The Woods", give it a rental first and then decide if a purchase is absolutely necessary. For my money, I'll just watch "Suspiria" instead, as it blows this movie out of the water.