I would rather think of this movie not as dark comedy, though I am sure that would be the correct genre, but as enlightening comedy. "Life is a state of mind." So what kind of mind have you? We as the audience are invited in to see "Chance" as he is and then observe how everyone interprets him from their own perspective. On a practical level, knowing estimates of the mentally ill in my state range around 25%, it suggests how we may wrongly interpret those around us by universalizing our sense of everything and presupposing it is the sense of others too - without ever really finding out what they understand and how they intend what they say. It is clear to me from observing mentally ill people in conversation with those that do not understand the mental illness of the person they are speaking to just how accurately the movie depicts the results. In this sense, the movie is a training film for those who would work with the mentally ill and that should cover everyone! On another level the movie points out that as we see the world so it is. Life is a state of mind. But you can change your state of mind. When you change your state of mind you change your world. As invited guests into the mind of "Chance" we are offered the opportunity to elevate our mind to another level of perception. This level enables us to perceive the perspective of others and remove us from the box that was our own previous limit. This is a great teaching device for those who are attempting to show this to someone who is not aware of the technique - having never done it before. The movie shows them they can do it and should.
Further, the movie is commentary and suggestion. I fail to see that the interpretation is forced. Interpret the last scene as you will - it still drives home the thesis just blatantly depicted on the Rand Memorial "Life is a state of mind" also repeated for emphasis by the presidential remarks. The movie leaves it up to the viewer to interpret the depth of this thesis.
This is a great movie and very useful.