In a sense, I need to break this review into 2 parts: the story and the blu-ray features. Firstly, the story. As an Aussie who has gone to some gay clubs in Sydney, like Stonewall, I was vaguely aware of some of the issues gay, lesbian, bi-sexual, trans-gender people had to go through to get to where things are today: still not perfect, still some prejudice, but no where near as bad as it was pre-1980. Some 18 year olds today have no idea that actually going to a gay bar in 1973 could wind you up in gaol, arrested and branded a freak, unGodly, a sinner and perverted. On that level, Milk was an exceptional film which explores just how unjust these opinions were, so NOT long ago, and that sometimes all it takes is one man, with the help of other brave souls, to fight injustice and strive for change. And so, as a civil rights film this is great: the subject matter is less significant in a way. I would have loved seeing a film about black rights, women's rights, etc. But the gay thing was fascinating, because even today, people/church/governments are so obsessed with gayness that this film's messages still resonate today. I don't understand it, because, as I've said to many gay and straight friends, 'the lifestyle people choose is their own choice. I don't care which orientation people gravitate to. It really is instinctual, it can't be helped. I don't think the family is in any danger yet! Most people still live the straight lifestyle and have families.' And what can I say about Sean Penn...WOW! What a performance. As the actors state in the commentary, he just becomes 'Harvey Milk'. That's how committed he is to the role. An excellent performance from someone who I thought/heard was a little aggressively homophobic himself. I don't really know if he is, but here, he shows us just he is capable of. A truly inspired performance. I'd love to act with him. I'd learn so much.

As a blu-ray experience, what do you get. Thankfully, with Milk, you get to see this story played out in crystal clear picture and sound. Blu-ray...well, it just enhances the experience totally. I never owned the DVD, so I'm not sure what features were on them, but with the blu-ray, you get some really intriguing background features on the reality behind the screenplay...how they tried to remain faithful to what actually happened with the demand for gay rights in the 1970's...the era of protest marches against governments still stuck in the 1950's ideologically speaking. The features are great: 'Remembering Harvey'; 'Hollywood Comes to San Francisco' and 'Marching for Equality' all enhance the visuals/story presented in the film. As this is a biographical piece, it's good to see the real-life people interviewed about the experiences of knowing Harvey Milk. The 1080P hi-def, DTS HD 5.1 audio is great. As I said, it just adds to the experience! Director, Gus Van Sant, worked (chose, in part) his cast well. I don't want to ramble much, but Emile Hirsch, James Franco, James Brolin and Diego Luna all worked so hard to faithfully portray their 'real-life' characters. The the blu-ray aspects, get this film. This technology really enhances the story marvelously! Buy it for the story. I knew little about what it was like for homosexuals in the 1970's. I now feel, in part, literate about the struggle they endured - a struggle which still continues to this day. I bought this blu-ray on a whim, because I heard it was good, but hadn't seen it. Now I'm glad I did.