Stylistically I loved this movie.  It was beautifully shot and generally well acted.  The early scenes of Johnny Depp on the train out west raised my expectations very high for the rest of the film but I was sorely disappointed.  It seems as if director couldn't make up his mind whether he wanted to portray the mythic West of the old movies or the often dirty reality that historians are quick to point out.  I wouldn't have minded inconsistencies if he'd been going for a heady combination of the two, but at moments the film seemed almost documentary-like, making the historical blurbs seem sloppy rather than inserted on purpose.  For example,

1) The movie was obviously set sometime during the second half of the 1800s, my guess is not long before the American Civil War (trains going out west, Indian Wars, etc).  There certainly were major migrations of Aboriginal American back and forth across the 49th Parallel, but these were nearly always to escape the wars of expansion the United States was waging further south.  The British held territory was comparatively safe - not having been widely settled yet, and in fact the creation of the North-West Mounted Police (later the RCMP) was partially to prevent the tribes from being preyed upon in the various ways that were fashionable at the time.  This being said, the British were well over their "taking Aboriginal children to Europe as curiousities" phase.  That had happened centuries earlier.  So my point is that "Nobody" NEVER would have been taken to England like he had.  Don't forget that one of the biggest reasons why the American colonies rebelled against Britain was the prohibition of westward expansion into "Indian territory"!

2)  Given the fact that most Aboriginals were moving north, not south during this era, the distinctive Hudson's Bay Company blankets and coats that pop up in places like the American southwest is lazy work on the costume designer's part.

3)  Were there any fat Aboriginals who lived off the land during this era?  Nope.  Obesity has been just one of the curses Europeans brought to North America.  This being said, "Nobody" was miscast and uncredible.

I could go on and on, but I'll just restate my summary instead:

Camera-work and acting aside - this film is a piece of crap.