This documentary exposes how greed, arrogance, power and corruption converged to create the biggest corporate dismantling in America's history.  The film begins by getting viewers familiar with the background of key players at Enron and morphs into an analysis of how a thirst for continuous profits created a culture of ethical recklessness and all out greed.  During the film, we are introduced to the mechanics behind Enron's overly exaggerated financial reporting.  Mark to market accounting was the method used to overstate revenues and earnings but it was the greed of Enron's management that ultimately caused the company to fail.  While the film was an interesting review of the company's demise, the one thing that resonated most with me is how other corporations, Arthur Andersen, Enron's banks, attorneys, etc. allowed Enron to run amuck.  Had any of these company's looked beyond their own financial gains; they might have been able to minimize the damage that Enron caused.  Instead, thousands of individuals lost their jobs, retirement packages and savings.  The company's that survived their encounter with Enron took a hit in terms of their reputation in the market. How do we avoid this from happening again?  Unfortunately I don't think we can.  As this film points out, money is not necessarily at the root of all evil, people are.  It was the people that destroyed Enron.  The same people who came up with highly innovative ideas also came up with unethical scams to implement them.  The recorded phone conversations between traders towards the end of the film were incredibly revealing and indicative of how individuals bought into the culture of greed.  I hope that corporations around the world will encourage their management and staff to see this film.  A copy should be purchased for every corporate library and become part of the new hire orientation process.  Perhaps with this level of exposure, the film can actually prevent another Enron.  Highly Recommended and well worth the time. .  . the sound track is quite nice as well!