The movie, A LITTLE ROMANCE, has always been a favorite of mine and, probably many others still living, smile at the very thought of the film. Yet, I cannot believe how many people have not seen this film!!! Go find it - buy it - never give it away.

This story of first love brings laughter, tears and sweet memories of young love and works for everyone, young and old alike. We have all been there.  Romance in France and Venice always enhances any film!  Two bright teens, an American girl and a French boy simply fall in love, run off, before the girl's parents take her home to America, to kiss under the Bridge of Sighs in Venice. It all works!

Featuring Diane Lane in her screen debut at age 13, Lord Laurence Olivier and a brilliant Thelonious Bernard, as well as a perfectly chosen cast, makes for a perfect film!  Every scene is believable!  This is just a great movie. A GREAT MOVIE!  We have all been young and in love. I am a 78 year old widow but I still love this film, still remember my first love at 13 - and I smile.

I have purchased the movie in VCR and then DVD but always seem to give it away. Someone picks it up at our home, says he or she has not seen it - I say they need to 'own' it. "Goodbye, A Little Romance!"  Out the door it goes.  Although I am constantly replacing the DVD, Amazon comes through with another.

Have had dreams of a sequel and keep telling people that the stars are mostly still alive - except Laurence Olivier - but they could take Diane Lane back to Venice, have her meet the boy, Thelonious Bernard, who is now a dentist in Nantes. Have them never to have married (?) or not, but have them single and going back to the Bridge of Sighs - one more time. It is just such a great possibility. Someone do it! Flash backs? Wonderful movie.

But, for now? I am looking to buy an old second hand CD of the music and have just found one on Amazon. Surely others feel the same way. I am grateful anyone will sell his old copy. I heard the Vivaldi music yesterday on a Catholic station as background music for a program. Made me lonely for A Little Romance, for sure . . . even at 78, widows are never too old for A Little Romance!