Carrie is a stylish, well-cast, immensely powerful movie. Sissy Spacek is amazing as Carrie, a tortured teenager who discovers her considerable telekinetic abilities and attempts to take control of her life. Just when she seems to be truly happy for the first time in her short, miserable existence, a cruel classmate hauls out a grotesque practical joke that amuses everyone and leaves Carrie enraged beyond the point of endurance. What follows is one of the most terrifying and satisfying sequences in movie history. 
When Carrie finally got even at the prom, I was on her side all the way, because--and I don't care who criticizes me for this--THEY DESERVED IT. Carrie wanted to avoid such an incident, but they made it impossible. This movie and its fans have taken a lot of heat lately because of certain events in the news, when common sense will tell you that if you torment someone enough, their self-control will give out and they will strike back. The best way to prevent violence is to leave people the hell alone, but no one seems to understand that. 
I feel as I can realate to Carrie. I have been mad fun of in school and I have actually been known to want to do some of the things Carrie does. Sometimes I wish I had the powers she had so I could do the things she does. All I Have is ESP... oh well back to the movie... Carrie is a movie I could see 1 MILLION times and NEVER get tired of it. 
"Everybody will laugh at you!" 
It's funny how 5 words can mean so much to a person. I will never forget the image of this pale girl, with a look on her face of horror, embarassment, shame and raw emotion, covered in blood and through her eyes, the whole gymnasium, stands and laughs heartlessly at her humiliation. 
Carrie was a landmark for me, as I'm sure it was for a certain Mr King. It displayed for the whole world to see that school,(high school, secondary school) could actually be hell. In my mind Sissy Spacek was born to play Carrie White. She encapsulated all the emotions and feelings so well, your heart couldn't help but go out to her. In my mind this is a horror, but not in the sense of Carrie White's telekinesis, but of life, and of the people in it. Those who just wanna push things that little bit too far, for some nondescript reason. The girls squealing for Carrie to "plug it up" when she gets her first period and has no idea what it is, and when they start throwing tampons at her, is alot more frightening than most of the episodes of Carrie's telekinesis,(with the exception of the 2 final incidents). Piper Laurie's excellent portrayal of the religiously fanatical Magaret White, her determination that Carrie is first dirty and polluted which eventually gives way to her belief that Carrie is evil, is disturbing viewing especially considering that at the crux of this all, Carrie is her child. A WORD OF WARNING: De Palma's version differs from Stephen Kings novel, however that does not make it bad, since the initial essence is there. Carrie is an unfortunate victim of circumstance, trapped in a world that she does not control, one thread that is evident in both the film and the novel is that Carrie's ultimate empowerment and her decision (arguably based on instinct and reaction)to initiate it, leads to destruction of the town and finally of herself, but throughout the whole thing she remains, unsure and often even unaware. 
Carrie is a victim you care about and you understand the revenge she exacts upon her classmates and the redeemed Sue Snell(Amy Irving), however, you get the feeling that Snell's attempts to bring Carrie happiness is slightly a case of trying to forgive herself for descending into madness in the girls locker room. 
The final scene (one of the best classic endings of a film ever:discuss!?) is a final triumph for Carrie, her final revenge, her gift to Sue Snell, her legacy. But throughout the whole film, never was this more a case of just an innocent victim of circumstance. A triumph for King and De Palma, (plus a chance for De Palma to home his skills down, in particular his trademark split screen filming). If any parent ever said life was easy for kids, sit them down and make them watch Carrie. 
This movie is a must for those who can understand its themes. The low budget is utilized to great effect. The art direction is wonderful, illustrating the pain and horror lurking in everyday life--the White bungalow, for example, seems like any other house on the outside, but is a jumble of shadows and twisted religious images inside. Director Brian De Palma is at his flamboyant best, especially during the nightmarish split-screen climax. Piper Laurie excels as Margaret, Carrie's fanatical mother from hell, and provides some very frightening moments. And of course, the image of Sissy Spacek covered in blood, except for her bulging blue eyes, is one that will remain with me forever... 
The Ending is the best part besides the prom... (....)