Hell House is put on by many churches by now.  Supposedly, most of the attendees are bussed in from other churches, so they have an idea what to expect.  But these churches also attempt to attract the "unsaved;" unsuspecting persons who believe they are going to see the best haunted house ever, as one of their Halloween activities.  (A friend of mine was one of these people, and he told me his story.)

Aside from the usual hypocrisy and general bs of preachy churches like this, the real SICK here is the blaming of rape and incest victims for those crimes against them, the bleeding-to-death-and-on-her-way-to-hell abortion victim being screamed at by a demon for "killing her baby," and the homosexual dying from AIDS, because in their minds, only homosexuals get AIDS, and they deserve to die.

After the attendees (mostly kids, tweens and teens) go through this sickness, they sit down with "counselors" who get them to complete forms wherein they recommit to the faith.

They also have acting awards for the "actors" in the production.  It's like Oscars/Prom - they get dressed up, they receive golden awards for best performance, they accept their awards and give acceptance speeches.

Truly insidious and gross is how this one teen girl (a cheerleader) is totally playing the whole system to her advantage. She's the best actress of all, spouting out "the preach" like a pro, but one can feel and see her performance - she KNOWS that it's bs, but she is like "the prettiest whackjob of all."  She's gaining popularity and power within the system and she's going with it.  This is the kind of atmosphere that raises psycho-power-nuts who end up in politics and as evil ceo's of companies like Halliburton.  These are the women that look the other way while their daughters are being raped by their fathers.

More pathetic might be the father of several young children (and the cheerleader mentioned above) who tossed out the wife for having had an internet affair. OK, she cheated.  But they malign this woman as though she were Satan! The father, who had a very inappropriate moment with his daughter in which he begged for a special cheer for daddy, won custody of all several children.  I can only imagaine what a nightmare the custody battle was for this poor mother.  In most modern societies, a mother has to commit severe crimes against her children to lose custody.  All this woman did was cheat on her husband, and she was metaphorically burned at the stake!  She is nowhere to be found, hence cannot defend herself in this documentary.  She was probably run out of town.

We should have heard more from the director, he's oddly silent throughout.  One of the extras is Ratliff's This American Life appearance, and it is worth a listen if you have not already heard it.