"I want the people to know that they still have two of three branches of the government working for them"
Check your mind at the door on this one folks. It's a fun B-Grade Sci-Fi movie reminiscent of the B-Grade Sci-Fi from the '50's and '60's but the plot is thinner than rice paper. What do you expect from a movie that is based on the subject matter from a series of  Topps trading cards made in the late '50's early '60's with a brief comeback and reprints in the late '80's. What? You want a review? OK, then why didn't you say so.
The basic plot, which is almost all of the plot, is the Martians attempt to conquer Earth, but ultimately fail of course. Jack Nicholson has dual roles as a Vegas Hotel/Casino Owner and the President of the United States in an attempt to make the movie more than just an old worn out B-Movie. That brings up a thought... If movie studios had the multi-million dollar budgets in the 1950's & '60's that they now have today, there wouldn't have been as many B-Grade Sci-fi movies produced, but I digress.
Despite the fact that this is a "low budget" movie with a big budget and stars like Jack Nicholson, Glenn Close, Michael J. Fox, Sarah Jessica Parker and Pierce Bronson, and a super thin plot, it is very enjoyable. It  has some rather humorous moments, I won't spoil them, but if you decide to watch this DVD see how the Martians destroy Easter Island.
I enjoyed this film more than I expected and I knew that I would at least kinda like it, so my expectations were surpassed. As I said at the beginning this is a film where if you turn off your mind you enjoy it ten times more than if you think through it. A prime example of this is the way Earth is saved from the Martians. If your thinking through the movie, you'll wonder how did a kid in the Arizona dessert get the word about his Ultimate weapon spread across the world so quickly, with out telling anybody about it? Did everybody in the entire world come up with the very same idea at the same idea? I think not, that is one of the reasons I turned my mind off on this one.
Technically, from a consumer's point of view, I didn't like the way the menu is controlled, I'm not exactly sure why but I just didn't. I thought the saucer theme was cute but kind of boring, I think they could have spent some more time on the menu and had the Martians do things; for example, when you choose something to view a Martian would shoot that particular flying saucer, making it explode and then the screen would fade into what you wanted. I also hate the cardboard/plastic "Clamshell" box, I've never been a fan of those.
Now onto the Technical Gobble-de-gunk of this review.
The extra stuff is:
Interactive Menus
Production notes
Scene Access
English, French and Spanish Languages and Subtitles
Two Trailers
Anamorphic transfer on one side, pan and scan on the other
Alternate Music Only audio
I would recommend this movie to Sci-Fi fans, People who had "Mars Attacks!" cards as kids, and folks who enjoy mindless entertainment and don't need to analyze every little detail of what they are watching. I guess that means Trekkies wouldn't like this movie much.
The Picture was very good, very little disappointment there, and the sound was OK nothing unusual, although on my system it sounded weird at points, but that is just my particular set up. So... I Give Mars Attacks a 4 for Picture and a 3 for Sound.