VHS version of TWO LANE BLACKTOP - purchased online through Amazon.com  Amazon.com has never let us down.  A Buyer can trust in the fact that Amazon.com only allows top quality Sellers, and for that we thank them!
The copy we received was, apparently, a collector's item.  Even better.  We appreciated the fact that there were NO FLAWS in this recording, and that must be why--because it was NOT a video store copy.
FILM REVIEW:  Excellent film!  If you are from that era and were a teenager in the late 1960s, or, therefore, a young adult in the early 1970s, you will feel that this film is SO right-on.  If you are not from the era but are interested in the culture of that time period, then you should watch this film.  Either way, it is, indeed, a Cult Film.  The ending was a little mystifying, but I believe it seemed that way, only because there was probably meant to be a Part 2.  Production was excellent; characters were excellent.  One who is not from that era might find it all a bit strange, especially the non-communicative attitude of James Taylor's role.  But, that is so much how guys were then.  And, even the girl who decided to hit the road.  She was beautifully played.  That is exactly how it happened for many a young person then.  Whatever happened to that actress?  Even Warren Oates' character, as an older person, sort of washed up and lost, was right-on of the time period.  He was a little older, and had some savy that the others did not, and he had some money, or the capability of getting some more money (that's how he ended up with the girl).  It was all done very well.  Also, if one is not interested in the culture of the time period with respect to individuals and their emotions and the games they played, and how hard it was to find a place in the world, it happens to be an excellent portrayal of all the small townsfolk along the way, and just how ready they were to drag-race with anybody "driving through their territory in a hot car."  It was an unwritten challenge; everyone felt THEIR ride was the best!