Although this film depicted events that occurred in the 1930s in Germany as the Nazis have come into power, it is in many ways a cautionary warning of how easily things can change in any society, including our own, once people, no matter how "good" they may be, choose to travel step by step down one path over another.

For example, one scene depicted a college literature professor being informed that certain works in his class curriculum were no longer considered acceptable.  At the same time his students were rushing to the classroom window to watch as piles of books were being burned outside.  This scene brought to my mind the recent publicity surrounding the threatened burning of Korans in Gainesville, Florida.  While many probably chalked this up as merely the actions of one misguided individual, there will certainly be others who will now take up his cause.  Recent news stories have also mentioned certain school boards trying to sculpt history books to conform with their own ideas of how American history should be portrayed, rather than how it actually was.  How many of us again took little notice of the story and merely ascribed those actions to a few misguided individuals who, fortunately, live somewhere else?  How many Germans do you think felt the same whenever they read initial news stories of books being burned?

One of the main characters in this film, a Jewish psychoanalyst, is at first spared some of the harshest anti-Semitic Nazi measures due to having served in the German army in World War I.  Tragically, any protection that his status as a war veteran provided him was short-lived.  Many news stories during the recent New York Islamic Center controversy have reminded us that many Muslims have served honorably in our military over the past few years.  How many of today's Beckian conspiracy-minded fanatics will ignore the service provided by these individuals and see them merely as having been engaged as mole agents in some sort of anti-American plot?

I am certain that many of those drawn to the Nazis in the 1930s felt that they were "good" and patriotic citizens.  I am sure that many of the "good" Americans waving their Tea Party flags at their rallies feel the same way.  Nevertheless, the same sort of anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant rhetoric being spewed and ingested daily by many of these "good" Americans is very similar to the anti-Semitic propaganda that brought the Nazis to power and kept them in power.  Don't think that it can't happen here, in many ways it already is.