The French Lieutenant's Woman tells two stories, the story of two lovers in the Victorian age (the biologist Charles played by Jeremy Irons and the outcast Sarah played by Meryl Streep) whose story are being filmed. The two married actors playing the roles of Charles and Sarah, Mike (Irons) and Anna (Streep) are also having an affair during the shooting of the film, thereby giving subtle commentary/enlightenment on the story of the Victorian lovers.

It is emotionally very powerful, as you are strongly pulled into Charles' fascination with Sarah and her behaviour. As a biologist, he is very interested and subscribes to the theories of Charles Darwin, which is of course a laughing matter for the Victorian society, who scoffs at what they believe to be a theory of their descendance from apes. He is a loner, preferring to spend his time alone in the veld, searching for fossils. His saving grace in the eyes of society is that he is rich and therefore he is acceptable, even when he asks the daughter of Mr Freeman, the wealthiest merchant in England, for her hand.

Sarah is an outcast because she had an affair with a wounded French Lieutenant, whom she nursed back to health and fell in love with. When he finally leaves for France, she follows him to the hotel he stays in before his departure. The lieutenant was married and not in love with her, causing her shame. She is forced to become an old woman's companion, but is shunned by society. Her favourite pastime is to walk alone on the quay overlooking the sea, or in the woods. It is here where Charles sees her and becomes obsessed with her. They start meeting. Sarah is dismissed by her mistress on account of her behaviour and has to leave town and Charles follows her. After declaring their love for each other, Charles goes back to break his engagement with his fiancee. This is of course totally unacceptable in the moral ethics of the time and his name is dragged through the mud. When he returns to the hotel, Sarah has left (inexplicably) and he starts a long search to find her.

In the actors affair, Mike also wants more from the married Anna and relentlessly pursues her, even when she goes back to London to be with her husband. It becomes clear that the novel on which the film is based gave two possible endings, a happy and an unhappy ending. The film attempts to capture both, but in the different time zones.

Streep is powerful in both the Sarah and Anna roles and dominates the film - just to see her at the height of her extraordinary power is already a good enough reason to see this film. Unfortunately the psychological motivation for her strange behaviour, especially as Sarah, is not convincingly explained, which is why the movie loses one star in my view. Irons is good as Mike, the actor, but seems a little unsure in his portrayal of the troubled Charles, sometimes overly aggressive (especially as the master in the household when he purports to have some understanding for his footman's indulgence in romance but on the other hand treats him with total disrespect) and other times overly passive (especially in some of the initial interaction with Sarah).

Like many good films, it leaves you with a feeling of "What exactly happened?" at the end, making it necessary to think through the events, the characters and what it meant. Significant is that Mike is calling out for Sarah (not Anna) at the end, therefore implying his search for his own vanishing and elusive dream, attempting to turn fiction (the story of the film) into the reality of the present. See it, it is worth it.