It has become perhaps the most familiar and well-versed line which has emanated forth from the mouths of celebrities and pedestrians alike--  "been there, done that."  And it is this line which has  epitomized the film "Anywhere But Here," a heartwarming account  of childhood innocence and a desire for independence.
It has been a  passing phase of life which every individual has undergone--  the  emotionally and physically trying years of puberty and adolescence, the  burning desire to break free from the bonds of parental control-- to become  and mold the individual which each person holds upon a pedestal in his/her  mind. In an attempt to illustrate this tumultous period, Director Wayne  Wang has stepped into the limelight with a story about a young teenage girl  Ann August (Natalie Portman) and her often eccentric mother Adele (Susan  Sarandon).  In a heartwarming and discrete manner, Wang depicts the  love-hate relationship between the two women as both attempt to tackle the  struggles associated with everyday life together, sharing their joys,  sorrows, troubles and happiness in a way that only two individuals as close  as them can do.  Undoubtedly, as a majority of individuals know, heated  arguments arose between the the mother and daughter, which were almost  always resolved in cascades of tears and remorse.
But it was not the  resolution of conflicts which made the biggest impact on me-- instead, it  was the daughter's struggle to develop a seal, a bond, a closure to her  confused past and confused life.  Having been a child of divorced parents  and now stuck in the abyss of adolescence, Ann struggled not only to come  to terms with her past, but lived in the dilemma of seeking independence  from the only person who understood her the most-- her mother. It was  heartwrenching to see the split emotions which Ann held-- should she remain  with her mother or establish her own life? This has and always will be a  difficult question to answer, even for the most bravehearted adolescent.  The adolescent years are tantamount to a bird, beating its wings against  the bars of a cage, attempting to seek sweet freedom but never seeming to  be able to do so.