In The Ultimate Gift, Jason loses his estranged wealthy grandfather, Red. In Reds will he set up a plan that Jason has to go through a series of tasks that lead up to the ultimate gift that he will receive. Red set this up through a series of videos giving instructions of how to complete the tasks and then when Jason completes them he learns that each task helps him receive an intangible gift. Along the way Jason learns what it is like to truly live and love. Even though its a secular movie The Ultimate gift, shows two major examples of biblical principals: the first is shown by Red that they need to love their neighbors as themselves, and Jason finds that losing his life is to find it, but there are also some negative aspects of the movie.
 "And the second is like it: 'Love your neighbor as yourself.'" Matthew 22:39. Red must have known this or understood this. He was a generous man, so much so that his family mocked him for it. When his family went to look for the bulk of his estate, the first place they looked was charities. Red knew that if it weren't for the help that he got then he wouldn't be where he was therefore he wanted to help others.
  "Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it." Matthew 10:39. The second "gift" that Jason "receives" is the gift of friendship.What Jason doesn't know is that he then must lose everything to find out who his true friends are. Everything  including his penthouse and all of his money. While Jason didn't lose his life for Christ, he still lost his life. Of course, in losing everything he found the one person who didn't care that he was broke. He fell in love with a single mother, who's daughter had cancer. The daughter became the inspiration for what he wanted to do with the rest of his life.
 In this movie disrespect is a common sight. The children of the late Red, mock him when he about the good deeds he had done. They also were complaining about the multi-million inheritance that they received. The girl that had cancer, Emily, was disrespectful to everyone but the director tried to make it look cute. There was a few cuss words but nothing bad. Also Reds family held themselves to a high standard and thought that money was everything.
 Despite some of the negative elements The Ultimate Gift shows two important biblical principals very well. The first by Red, that you need to love your neighbors as yourself. Then by Jason that to lose your life is to find it. Overall a very good movie that I think everyone should watch at least once in their life.