This is a great set of movies. You get four for the price of just the "Silencers" if you buy it seperately. And with each movie Dean Martin gets drunker...You can't beat that!

Each movie has a super hip popculture theme. The "Silencer's" is Burlesque and starts out with a classic Strip Tease scene. The movie is full of cheese and puns and Matt Helm a.k.a. Dean Martin getting some... My favorite rewindable scene is the oversized round bed that rises up and dumps him into his lavish pool/bath, to be scrubbed up by his sexy secretary...

Hilarious!

Also, this movie has a great "Secret Spy" gun that fires backwards, and a girl who uses that to her advantage, much to the surprise of her pursuing foes.

The second movie "Murderers Row" has a Go-Go Mod theme, with an opening segment of dancing, sexy, brightly colored, and psychedelic silhouttes. This movie holds another bed rising up moment, and even more great puns. Matt spends a lot of time drinking and driving in his fancy suped up station wagon, complete with a fully stocked bar. And there are plenty of great Go-Go dancing scenes.

The third movie "The Ambushers" has a tropical feel, with Matt being sent to Acapulco. Great Monkee's-like pop music, (the song was actually written by the Monkee's song-writers), on the opening scene. There are some pretty intese scenes, especially at the end when the Flying Saucer is sent speeding down a train track at top speed, and Matt has to save the girl who is in it!!

The fourth movie "The Wrecking Crew" has a cool pop art opening, and cheesy 60's pop music. Matt's unhelpful and clumsy side kick adds a great element of hilarity and frustration. There's a great "karate?" scene in this one with two cute vixens. Oh, and by this point, Dean Martin has many moments of unitelligble dialogue, due to his being totally plastered during the filming of these movies. Or so it seems he was.....

If you like great Spy Satire movies like "In Like Flint", Dr. Goldfoot and the Bikini Machine", and "Fathom", you'll love this set.

Be sure to have your favorite cocktail makings on hand though... You can't watch these movies without one!