Beyond the Darkness is a genuine Italian horror flick by Joe D'Amato, the director of the Grim Reaper and several porn flicks.  Unlike several Italian horror films, this one has a very simple plot.  
The story centers around a rich spoiled brat named Frank, who on the side is a taxidermist and has a girlfriend named Anna.  But unfortunately, Anna has an illness (the illness is not described in the film).  One day, the housekeeper named Iris and an old lady practice voodoo, without Frank's knowledge, using pictures of Anna.  Suddenly, Anna gets weaker and weaker in her hospital bed, until she dies in Frank's arms during a hospital visit. 
Since he is so factuated with his girlfriend, Frank steals Anna's body from the grave.  In order to preserve her, he removes all her insides in a graphic scene which may not be appropiate for all viewers.  (For safe keeping, if you have a weak stomach, do NOT eat a hearty meal before viewing this scene.)  Along the way, Frank kills two females (a pot-smoking hitchhiker and an aspiring athlete) and disposes their bodies along with his housekeeper Iris, who turns out has a strange fondness for Frank way beyond a mother-son relationship.  Later on, Iris advises Frank to get rid of Anna's body and marry her to fufill the emptiness he has, but he refuses, leaving to a bloody climax that has to be seen.
Beyond the Darkness strangely enough is a good movie to deal with the theme of necrophilia (hope that is spelled right).  It is surpising well-acted; however, the main problem is the DVD.  The images of the movie are very good, but the real problem is the sound.  Throughout, you could probably hear hissing.  The score by the band Goblin is so brilliant, but unfortunately the Dolby Digital Mono sound brings it down to non-existence.  Media Blasters has done a good job brining back forgotten movies from the Italian horror genre (read my reviews for Zombie Holocaust and Burial Ground), but have yet to release a Shriek Show DVD with Dolby Digital 5.1 sound.  Hopefully in the future, they will release feature films with improved audio.
Other than the DVD's faults, this is a good movie.  Other features include a 10-minute interview with Cinzia Monreale, who plays Anna and is also well know as Emily, the blind zombie from The Beyond; a 30-minute audio interview with the art director of the film; several trailers;  and posters and stills of Beyond the Darkness.  Also, there is an easter egg (go to scene selections and go to the second set of chapter selections where you can find a symbol of a girl).  The extra contains video posters of porno films that Joe D'Amato directed.  
Don't forget, check out the movie.