Oh, this movie pierced me to the very depths of my soul, like Vermeer in the movie pierces Griet's ear to wear the pearl earring for his painting !  This movie is a story about Love, not understood romantically, but in spiritual and emotional inter-subjectivity : being able to look into another person and understand (and feel) them fully and connect perfectly through that understanding (and "sympathy") : the very purpose and achievement of great art, like that which Vermeer makes of Griet.  Griet, a housemaid, the daughter of an injured (blinded and maimed) amateur painter, is at once for Jan Vermeer both the perfect model and the perfect critic (each role producing the perfection of the other)-- and this allows him to produce the masterwork of a painting, "Girl with a Pearl Earring".  What more is there to say ?  This movie is to be felt with your eyes and understood with a vision that will happen in your soul.  WATCH IT, EVERYONE, AND YOU'LL UNDERSTAND THIS !  It is eminently a movie for men and women alike, for all sensitive people who are "warriors of feeling" and thereby "true connoisseurs of art".  And it will make you better understand those perfect artistic moments in life (where everything becomes transparent to us, and we see into the uttermost depths of something/someone else and ourselves), and it will utterly transform the way you look at art whether in galleries (you'll probably visit them more as a result) or on your own walls !  Again, I ask, what more is there to say (what more could be said ?) for a movie, a work of art ?!  Only this : there is no gratuitousness in this movie.  The concluding sex scene is absolutely necessary and absolutely perfect, and it touched (and radically transformed) my understanding and appreciation of sex, from a woman's perspective.  Griet is a tragic figure, a woman of very low social standing, caught in a man's world, who has failed her parents in being evicted as a servant from Vermeer's household.  She knows not how to live her life now (how to support her parents : which new household will take her in as a servant when she will become so instantaneously recognizable for having posed for such a masterwork of a painting ?).  She knows too, as the attempted rape by Vermeer's patron, van Ruijven, makes plain, that her beauty will cause her to be "bumped on" by other "men".  Only two people in her life, Vermeer and her boyfriend/wannabe husband, Pieter, respect and love and see into her.  Her virginity will be robbed from her by all other "men".  To Pieter (whom she can never marry, she must wander the world to find herself) she can give a final, tender parting gift : in this way, her "first time" is HERS, and remains a gift freely given away, in Love.  And so, the sex scene.  I love great sex scenes and this is such a one.  You will not forget it.  YOU WILL NOT FORGET THIS MOVIE.  SEE IT AND BE TRANSFORMED IN YOUR HEART AND SOUL !!!