If you like zombie movies, you'll want to watch "The Horde" this weekend. I watched it instantly on Netflix, so I can't speak to the disk's special features.  This is a French movie.  The thing I've found about the French movies that come my way is they're either very good or very bad. "The Horde" is very, very good.

Some Spoilers - Not Many

The plot in a nutshell:  A cop is killed by gangsters in France.  His partners and friends get together to hunt down and kill the gang in their lair in a nearly abandoned high rise apartment building on the seedy edge of Paris.

The night they show up at the apartment building to get revenge on the gang, it goes wrong almost from the get-go.  The cops are captured by the gang, and things look grim.  Things get a lot grimmer when a dead body gets up and goes on a rampage. Worse, the dead are rampaging not only in the gang's hideout, but all over Paris ... and the world.  So, the cops and the gangsters must join forces to survive.  They must work together to reach ground level, wending their way through a rotting, zombie-infested building, if they hope to survive.

The character who is nominally the hero is Ouessem.  Before the cops go on their revenge hunt, the dead policeman's widow makes him promise to keep the others safe.  Fat chance of that, eh? Another important character is the female policewoman, Aurore.  Aurore has a secret  -- oh, does she have a secret.  The other police officers know her secret, but they have no idea of how it is going to drive her survival instincts.

There are two gangsters in "The Horde" - brothers from Nigeria - who have their own secret. It's something about what they suffered in Nigeria, and it's never fully explained, but it causes one of the brothers to act impulsively.  Another character is the bigoted French veteran of Vietnam.  He's psychologically twisted as well. You won't think so when the group first meets him, but just you wait.  On the other hand, the Vet knows his way around a machine gun, and that comes in handy when the group finds an improbable stash of weapons in the building.

The machine gun is important because the zombies in "The Horde" are fast zombies.

Why I Like Slow Zombies

Zombie fans generally fall into two groups - those who like fast zombies, and those who prefer the"classic" slow zombies.

 Fast Zombies were popularized in Zack Snyder's 2004 remake of "Dawn of the Dead."[...]  That's not their first appearance - that would be in 1985's hilarious "Return of the Living Dead." [...]  But "Return of the Living Dead" was a spoof.  Snyder's "Dawn of the Dead" was kick-ass horrifyingly serious.

I'm a fan of slow zombies.  To me, that's the beautiful thing about zombies.  See, if zombies are slow, you can potentially survive a zombie uprising.  You just have to keep your head, keep moving, and don't let the zombies corner you.  If it comes to a choice of apocalypses, and slow zombies are one of the options, I know which box I'm checking.  Sign me up!

Fast zombies now - they really only worked for me in the movies "28 Days Later" [...], "Zombie Land" [...] and the drop-dead funny "Doghouse"[...].  And that's because the zombies in those movies weren't actually dead but living plague victims.  For me, fast zombies imply a fast metabolism, and that only works if the "zombies" are alive.

 A FAST zombie that is DEAD is more of a demon. In which case, your chances of survival drop to zero.  That kind of ruins it for me ... EXCEPT "The Horde" is the exception.

Maybe the fast zombies work in "The Horde" because it's French.  The French have serious style when it comes to fantasy/sci-fi movies. Another French movie I can recommend is the steam-punk detective thriller, "Dark Portals: The Chronicles of Vidocq."[...]  It's excellent.

So maybe it's the French style that makes the fast zombies of "The Horde" work for me.  Maybe it's the multi-layered characters, so rare for a horror movie.  Maybe it's because of the unflinching bleakness of the plot and the wry humor peeking around the edges.

Make no mistake - "the Horde" is horrifying. I dreamed about zombies after I watched "The Horde." And they were fast, and in my dream, I was doomed.  Just like in "The Horde." So watch it.

You won't be sorry. Unless .. that is ... the zombies catch you.