This is a remarkable film. Some say it is dated. Maybe so, but there is nothing wrong with being dated if you are making a valid point in a fresh, eye-opening style, about the time and place in history, as this film director and screenwriter do with The Stepford Wives by Ira Levin.

The early 1970s were the height of the Women's Movement. Like other movements before it, there was a strong current of ideological militance on the part of some at the time, (and incidentally began to include men as well as women) enough so that a film of this artistic power and validity appearing in the movement's aftermath would by definition be incredibly frightening.

 Unusually enough, Ira Levin's brilliance includes his uncanny ability to write from the point-of-view of his heroines. Director Bryan Forbes and the screenwriter who adapted the work, rose to this task as well when they created this excellent movie.

Additionally, the casting of Katharine Ross as the heroine was an excellent choice--Ross was the epitomy of the 70s female with the combination of her strength of character, down-to-earth feminity and  warmth, as well as her subtle, natural beauty. It is genuinely horrifying because women of the 70s identified so much with Ross and her character Joanna, as well as her feisty, wise-cracking friend Bobbi. What happens to these women happens to us all as we watch the film.

 Those who did not live through the heydey of feminist consciousness-raising will also identify with this film, because of Joanna's human qualities that are universal, and because malevolence and abuse of power can be based anywhere, at any point in history where there are human beings who no longer feel connected to humanity, as happened when the men of Stepford betrayed their own wives and children in this finely crafted and horrifying movie.

Anyone who wants to see a fascinating and horrific tale that is short on blood-and-guts but long on genuine, horrifying intrigue that includes entertaining the impossible, would absolutely love this film.