Betty Blue does not offer a viewing that will challenge your mind, but that will stir up your emotional intelligence. It is the story of a beautiful girl, Betty, who moves in with a "wandering spirit", Zorg. Together they struggle to find themselves good jobs to make a worthy living, but not all is at easy as it seems. Betty has a very passive-aggressive temperament that sometimes leaves Zorg scratching his head. She is also obsessed with getting Zorg's attempt at writing published, which also bothers him a bit. Throughout their various colorful adventures, a Betty nobody knew begins to unfold before our eyes, and conditions thus become less and less favorable for the couple. In sum, we are invited to witness her descent into the deepest unbalance.

Beatrice Dalle is adorable and compelling as Betty, and one is capable of liking the character not for her physical attractive but for her bubbly personality, her contagious little girl laughter, and her innocence... even despite her "tantrums", which initially seem exaggerated until the pills become of our knowing.

Betty Blue may also come off as a movie with no depth, or a shiny product that is purely plastic (I believed it to be so upon first view), but with time the story becomes warm, exciting, and beautiful, despite its length. There is beauty in watching all of Zorg's and Betty's adventures, and the intimacy they share with their friends-- drinking, dancing, just having good ol' fun-- transcends the screen. On the other hand you have Betty's unstable temper, product of an unrevealed schizophrenia that reaches its peak by the end of the film and puts an end to the captivating, chere love story between Betty and Zorg.

The film has some visually stunning moments, and the color palette overall is rich, primary and "inviting", if such adjective can be applied in this case. The dialogue is casual, don't expect anything intellectual or very thought-provoking.

All in all, it is a movie purely aimed at the heart, which might explain why it may appear simple and superficial at first. In reality it's liberated, silly, over-the-top at times, moving, depressing and compelling. Do not focus only on the nudity and the sex, there's much more to this film, regardless of what was truly Beineix's intention.