I love vampire movies and this is certainly one hell of a vampire movie.  This movie is just so well done it leaves me speechless, the acting is just pure fun and awesome to watch.  George Cloony makes this movie folks.  What he did on ER was great, but as a bad ... in this movie it purely blows away everything else that he's done. At least in my mind, no offense to ER, great tv show. Love it.
You also have Harvy Kietel and Juliette Lewis in the film, whom play a believable father daughter combo. 
Anyway on to the film the first half of the movie deals with the Gecko bothers and how they are trying to get into mexico to avoid the authorities.  So they hook up..er..kidnap Kietel and Lewis and head for the border.  All in all its a great opening and the character interaction is pure magic.  You can pretty much see that Cloony's character is a mucho bad ... supreme, and he demands respect or disrespect or something, whatever he is demanding he asking for a heap of it.  
Of course the whole crew of misfits gets into mexico and goes to what I call "the actual bar you would find in hell."  Once there some more great interaction occurs, and one hot dance later all hell breaks loose.  The movie from there is a pure joyride of action and carnage.  
I won't spoil anything for you, but this movie has slick and clever dialouge that will have you on the floor laughing.  It also has a great plot and pretty neat special effects.  The acting is top notch and the vampires look pretty damn ugly.  Lots of gore people, not for the faint of heart.
Overall the DVD is great with tons of stuff to go through, this collectors edition has the film Full Tilt Bogey included with it which is basically a hour and a half long making of documentary.  With all this you think this film could not get any better, eh wrong answer it gets better.  Robert Rodriguez director of the Faculty, and Desparado is behind the camera for this film.  
I think thats a lot of good reasons to get this slick action/horror flick, but hey why believe me find out for yourself and go out and experience From Dusk Til Dawn.