This movie went wrong from the opening line, but it's not entirely the fault of the movie makers-- well, it is, but the problem is they just took on a project way too big. Battlefield Earth, the book, was 1050 pages long. It just isn't physically possible to condense the sum 400,000 words into a two hour movie. That's of course setting aside the fact that, in my opinion, the movie would take a substantially larger budget with over a year to film everything on loctation in rual Colorado where it takes place. It would also help to have an actor playing Jonnie that could carry off the hero role successfully. At least John Travolta stuck to his charater. I don't know what the reviewers are talking about when they say he did an awful job-- he's the only one who actually palyed his character properly! Though I think that this movie took more abuse than it rightly deserved, it still didn't live up to the potential material availible in the book. The one thing that could easily have been avoided was how the majority of the main book charaters were cut out. Sure Jonnie, Terl, Chrissie and Ker were there, but I didn't even realize there was a Robert the Fox until I read a cast list. And who in the world was "Carlo"? It seems like the writer got overwhelmed and roled Dunneldeen, Glencannon, Stormalong and numerous other Scottsmen into the neat little package of Carlo. That's setting aside the Chinise and Africans in the last third of the book. The movie only covered approximately one-third of the book before jumping to three-quarters where you find out the Psychlo home planet has turned into a sun. Overall, it would have been better to leave L. Ron Hubbard's masterpiece alone rather than disgrace its name by giving people the impression that it was just like the movie. If you plan on reading the book, which I highly recomend, pay no attention to the movie. The only resemblance they share is in title and the four main charatcters mentioned above, though Ker is completely different in the book. I'm truly sorry that the addaption didn't go more smoothly after all the material that was supplied for its making and the anticipation leading up to its release. This is just one of those situations where the only way to make a good book to movie adaption is to take the dialogue and action word for word in the movie. It would also help to make it into episodes (like Star Wars) or a miniseries (like what was done for Dune by the Sci-Fi Channel recently) so it could be longer which would allow time to cover everything mentioned in the novel. Any other way just doesn't work as unfortunately can be seen in this movie bearing the now misrepresented name of Battlefield Earth.