Shopgirl is a touching little story based upon the novella by Steve Martin...a guy full of surprising and diverse talents.  Claire Danes plays the title role with Steve as Ray and Jason Schwartzman as Jeremy, two guys she meets and becomes involved with in L.A.

Besides excellent and convincing performances on the part of Danes and Martin, Shopgirl is a cinematic wonder.  I especially appreciated the shot of Seattle at night. And the sunsets were, in a popular word,--awesome!

This movie is about relationships and how hard it is to commit.  Just about anyone can identify with some part of it.  A young woman taking anti-depressants and trying to follow her artistic bliss nights works days behind a gloves counter in Saks Department Store.  She gets involved with two extremely different men who play a significant role in her maturation process for both better and worse.  But it is more than a romantic story and shows the audience about more than just Maribelle (Claire) or Jeremy (Jason) or Ray (Steve)...it is a paradoy on life. And it teaches us something about what love really is and how fragile people's feelings can be.

I laughed  when Maribelle and Jeremy are trying to make love and the cat jumps up on the bed to interrupt.  This is the grand entrance of the feline in the movie heretofore unseen but referred to and called.  That was funny. Cats get good parts these days and we never tire of it.  Besides most people living alone have either a cat or a dog...so this was just another realistic touch.

 The movie has moments of tenderness which really spoke out to me: like when Ray finally realizes that he does love Maribelle;  and I enjoyed watching Jeremy's transition from loser to budding success along with his efforts at self improvement by watching DVD's and reading "how to" books. Pretty dumb...really...but also pretty nice.

As the movie concludes and Steve Martin says as narrator and writer...it is life!

Both of my thumbs are up...and I am expecting at least an Oscar nomination for Claire Danes.  Not since Audrey Hepburn in "Breakfast at Tiffany's" have I been so moved by such tenderness, pathos, and resiliance shown by Danes in the role of the Shopgirl. What you don't hear you can see in her eyes.