During the last two weeks, I went to see Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy and Elite Squad: The Enemy Within. Both received excellent reviews, but not from me. Tinker, Tailor because it was so slow and Elite Squad because it was so fast. I walked out of Elite Squad and wished I had walked out of Tinker, Tailor but I fell into a coma. What both films have in common is their inability to tell a story, which has to be the essence of film making. The directors of these films, Tomas Alfredson and Jose Padilha, would do well to view the DVD of The Professionals and learn from a pro, Richard Brooks. 1966 was a busy year for me so I missed The Professionals in its theatrical release. Too bad. Last week, a friend gave it to me and what a treat! This is a great, GREAT western from a masterful director, Richard Brooks, who could direct in just about any genre (Elmer Gantry, Blackboard Jungle, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof). In The Professionals, Brooks gives us a well-constructed, exciting, and often humorous screenplay (by Brooks himself), superb cinematography, beautiful locations, and a cast that any director would die for: Burt Lancaster, Lee Marvin, Robert Ryan, Woody Strode, Claudia Cardinale, Ralph Bellamy, and Jack Palance. The set-up for the story takes five minutes, and then off it goes. It never bored me, not for a second. The dramatic tension is sustained throughout. The actors are terrific, even Marvin, who apparently was drunk during most of the shooting. Lancaster's role is unusual in that he plays the off-beat character instead of the usual lead. He is in top form, especially showing us that he was a gifted comedian in addition to his intensity, charisma, and physical agility. Palance is great as a Pancho Villa-type Mexican revolutionary/bandit and Claudia Cardinale offers surprisingly good acting in addition to some of the sexiest movie shots I've ever seen. Each of the characters has his/her own fascinating qualities, which are offered up by Brooks in tantalizing tidbits. The story itself has some unusual twists so that it is more than simply a shoot-em-up. I loved it.