I thoroughly enjoy Jean-Claude Van Damme movies. As of this moment I am the owner of about 6 Van Damme movies on blu-ray. I realize that most of his movies are a little lacking and are far from being oscar-worthy material, but there's something about the awkwardness of the Muscles from Brussels that makes him very compelling. He is not the greatest actor ever, but you can't help but root for him. It's like he's the ultimate under-dog. The guy who can't catch a break, but always beats the odds anyways. I love the original Universal Soldier, and I have never seen the oft-maligned sequel. I purchased the original Universal Soldier a few years ago on a whim, when I first discovered Van Damme and his peculiar way of emoting. I was smitten. I love action movies. Particularly ones that are bombastic and entertaining. I had heard that US: The Return was a major failure, so I decided to be content with the first movie. Flash forward a few months, and I stumbled upon the trailer for this movie. At first I was very wary. I mean, let's face it, Van Damme is not a major name anymore and most direct-to-home video releases are horrible. I read a few reviews, and I saw a few clips, and I decided to take a chance.
It was the best decision I've made in a while. This movie is spectacular. The script is good, the acting is excellent, and the fight scenes are something to behold. I like to consider myself a sort of action movie connoisseur, and I like to consider this movie as a type of hidden gem. One of those movies that kind of slipped through the cracks because some studio big shot didn't think it was good enough for a theatrical release. In my opinion, Van Damme's acting abilities have improved exponentially in his old age. He has somehow managed to make his wooden and awkward way of acting into something resembling the persona of a troubled and afflicted warrior. The way he talks and the way his eyes look empty are very fitting to his character.
The movie clips along at a good pace, and there is hardly any filler. From beginning to end we are treated with a competent (if a bit fantastical) and well-handled plot. The high point of the movie is definitely the Van Damme vs Lundgren face off. That fight scene is particularly brutal. It's also a nice tip-of-the-hat for fans of the first film. Lundgren, by the way, is extra creepy in this movie. His portrayal of Andrew is damn good. It's actually a little unnerving.
Something that is worth mentioning is the soundtrack for this movie. It's synthesized, and it's phenomenal. It's really reminiscent of classic 80's action movies. This movie has actually given me hope in Van Damme. I sincerely hope that he can get back to being a big name action star. He may not be the best action hero, but in my opinion, he has the potential to be more entertaining than Stallone or Schwarzenegger.
Obviously, I cannot recommend this movie enough.