Okay- so I never read the book, but I love the Arthurian legends and this was much better than any other movie about the time period, namely "First Knight" and "Camelot".
The scenery and costuming was gorgeous and I was amazed at how accurately period living was portrayed. There are no 13th century knights in armor at Arthur's court and the swords aren't the huge 5ft long broadswords that came about 500 years after Arthur's time. Everything is so rich in accurate detail that it's hard to stop watching.
Aside from that, the acting is superb, especially for a made for TV movie. It's definately as good as "Gettysburg" and "Nuremburg" to name a few other landmark TV movies. The balance between action and drama is great and the movie doesn't seem overloaded with too much of either. The computer animated effects of Camelot and Avalon look very real and the musical score is haunting, though a little too modern for my tastes.
I think the only bad thing about the DVD is that there aren't many special features like interviews and behind the scene production work. But with a 3 hour movie on one DVD, it's understandable. Also, some of the plot is a little questionable as far as historical accuracy is concerned, but I suppose that's better explained in the book.
A great movie for fans of the time period or for a rainy Saturday.
Update as of August 28, 2002-  I just finished reading the book and now I like the movie even more than ever.  True, a lot is missing, but it's like that with most movies that are ported to the screen.  The book itself is longer than all three of Tolkein's Ring series combined and I for one am glad that they didn't try to follow the The Mists of Avalon too closely.  It would have been overdrawn and boring like "The Fellowship of the Ring."
It is kind of disappointing that over 20 years of plot time is cut out of the movie, but it's more tragic when people die young and it keeps the plot moving along swiftly.  Also, TNT probably can't afford to make a 12 hour epic that follows the plot inch by inch.
I don't know how Bradley would react if she were alive today, but I think the movie is MUCH more accessible to a wide variety of audiences than the book is.  And I think that being able to convey Bradley's message (that all religions are one and the same and that love is blind) is far more important than literary accuracy.
With that idea in mind, the film is much like Christianity is in the book.  It's a simpler explanation of things for simpler people.