This beautiful, quirky movie is the story of an unlikely man who falls in love with an unlikely place.  
Here's what the movie isn't:  it contains almost no sex, no violence, no comedy highjinks, no car chases, little suspense, no cops, no boy-meets-girl plotline.  The plot of the movie, such as it is, could be laid out in a paragraph.  It's about the characters, to a point, though we really only get a glimpse at who these characters are, or seem to be.  The film's neither happy nor sad, but a bit of both.  The movie must be seen to be understood.  
Mack, a slick Houston oil-company executive (Peter Riegert), arrives in remotest coastal Scotland to discreetly negotiate the purchase of a village, so his company can build a huge oil facility there.  Though Mack believes his mission is secret, the canny villagers all know why he's there, and prove to be shrewd negotiators themselves.  Unbeknownst to Mack, the locals can "smell the money," and are overjoyed at the prospect of selling out and getting away.  
Riegert's character is at first annoyed by his circumstance and his surroundings--having to waste time dickering with the village locals (he resentfully observes that he could have sewn up the deal in an afternoon over the telephone).  The place seems backwards and remote, has only one pay phone, and is far removed from the glossy, fast-paced life of money and convenience to which he is accustomed.  
But the place is beautiful, and haunting, and Mack--impatient to wrap up his business and leave--begins to realize that he should be happy for the chance to linger there.  In one scene, Mack telephones his Houston office from the village's one pay phone, and finds that he has little to say to the person on the other end of the line, and that he isn't missed much.
The place changes the all-business Mack, who symbolically loses the use of his briefcase, then loses his wristwatch, then his necktie, and finally seems to lose some interest in completing the business he was sent to conduct.  As the negotiations appear to near an end, he is visibly somewhat saddened: in a moment of drunken clarity, he realizes that he wants to stay---and that his moneyed life back in Houston is rather lonely and empty, and doesn't want to go back to it.  And he half-realizes, perhaps more than the locals the company wants to displace, that the people of the village might be better off without the oil company's money. 
There is a gently wistful quality to the film, and countless examples of quiet irony as well:  Mack, at first bent on impressing others (with pictures of his Porsche, for examle), finds he envies those he's trying to impress.  Mack is struck by the cheerful friendliness of the locals, not quite realizing that some of the locals are only so friendly because of the money he can offer them.  And only too late does Mack understand that an apparently homeless, eccentric old beachcomber is the sanest, wealthiest, wisest soul in the film.
The movie is funny, subtle, understated, intelligent, and as light or as deep as you want it to be. It bears repeated viewings, and only gets better the second and third time.  
I recommend it without reservation.  Truly a fine film.