I had been curious to see the movie Maniac for years.  Being a huge horror fan since I was a child I was surprised that I hadn't seen it somewhere along the line before.  However I have never been able to find it any video stores even after the dvd release.  I ended up getting it on Netflix and let me just say....it would have been fully worth the cost of purchasing it blindly!

This is truly an underrated slasher/horror film and, in my opinion, one of the absolute best slasher flicks of the 80's, but not in the way one might think and certainly not in the way I expected.  I expected a run-of-the-mill cheesy, T&A, horror flick, which would have been absolutely fine with me, but instead I got a very gnarly, incredibly acted (Joe Spinell was amazing), horrific and suspenseful, even sad horror story.  I have rarely been so surprised in a good way at any film.

I will try not to give anything away, but be warned I probably will give away some of the surprises, at least they were in my opinion.

One thing that I loved so much was how well we get to know the killer.  He is not a one-dimensional or shallow character, he is complex and tortured and....just another guy!  I have never seen a killer portrayed in quite this way.  For the first half of the film, maybe even more, we see him in his home and we see him stalk and kill people, and we see him being a maniac.  Then suddenly at the halfway point, maybe a little further our Maniac becomes interested in a woman who takes his picture in a park.  He goes to her home under a premise that is basically non-existant, which is really the only weak point in the plot might I add--exactly how he got his foot in the door with her, so to speak.  I can forgive it because maybe more happened that they just didn't show.  Anyway, the point is that this man who we have seen as little more than a tortured soul, a murderer, a lunatic, comes into this beautiful woman's home and is completely normal.  He is charming, whitty, jokes with her, he is intelligent, thoughtful, talks with her about art and her photography, they go on a date and she seems to genuinely like this big guy.  And I felt bewildered!  I already felt bad for the guy--I have hardly ever felt such sympathy for the "bad guy" like this but boy i did in this case and his interactions with this lady make it all the more sad, seeing that he can in fact be okay, at least for a time.

Anyhow, withour revealing much more than that which I was so excited about, this movie avoids a lot of typical horror cliches right up to the end which is nice.  I wish it had not ended so abruptly, but hey, I can't ask for much more with this one!

The effects are VERY well done.  This is Savini at his best--some of the work in here is even better than his work in the Dead movies, which to me, is saying a lot.

If you are a fan of 80s horror, or ANY slasher/horror you would do well to check this movie out.  It is dramatic, creepy, chilling (especially the Savini cameo scene--yikes!), and sad.  Has more layers in my opinion than most movies of its kind.  :)