This is either a movie that you love and laugh your a** off during, or you think it is one of the worse films ever made--not worth seeing once, let alone repeated viewings. Well, I've seen it many times and just love it, as it never fails to make me laugh. I also see all kinds of rather profound and deep stuff hidden in this quirky story. There are lots of interesting details that probably go over the head of the majority of viewers. Oh well. 'BRAIN CLOUD'! It's like the movie exists in it's own particular space of understanding, and you have to be within that same sphere to 'get it'. Apparently, not many people are, as it appears this movie was a big flop at the box office and was universally panned by the critics. In my opinion, that alone makes it worth going out of your way to see!

One of my favorite scenes is in the openning scenes with Mr. Waturi. "I know he can get the job, but can he DO the job?" Haven't we all had a moronic boss like that, repeating himself ad nauseum, talking incessantly on the phone to make himself feel important? He's absolutely perfect in that role. "I'm not arguing that with you!!!", he screams repeatedly. He's actually an archetype of a very real phenomena in the everyday workplace. There really are people just like him out there! In fact, most all the characters in this movie are unabashed character exagerrations. The humor in it is such that it is the kind you either 'get' or you don't 'get'. One time, at a family gathering I brought a video of the movie over, excited to share it with all of them after dinner. Well, before it got 30 minutes into the film, one by one they all excused themselves from the room! Nobody else laughed! Not even once! (Except for me of course, who was rolling on the floor). Go figure!

The film has has a great cast: Meg Ryan plays (very convincingly) the parts of the three main female roles wonderfully. Tom Hanks plays his usual lovable self as 'Joe Banks' who has a pragmatic death wish. Lloyd Bridges plays the billionaire Greyamore, with his duck headed walking stick as he smashes it into walls. Just beautiful! Mr. Waturi is an absolute piece of work, and that demented luggage salesman, whoever he is, is a classic among all movie characters!  The look in this guy's beady, slightly cross-eyed face as he say's, "Ah, a real.... Journey!" (hands rubbing in anticipation of the outrageous commission) is worth the price of admission alone.

Quirky details: 'Jump' orange soda! Gotta love it! "I've forgotten how 'BIG'!" Throughout the movie, there are repeated symbols popping up. Like the logo of the disgusting 'Acme' company Joe works for. ("50 years of petrolium jelly"). The movie opens with Joe and his coworkers trudging along this crooked walkway (to the tune of Tennessee Ernie Ford's 'I owe my soul to the company store') shaped in the symbol of a lightening bolt which we later notice is the company logo. Of course, this ill-conceived pathway makes the workers walk about 5 times more distance than would otherwise be necessary if it were an efficient design, but that's the corporate world for you! Interestingly, we see this same symbol repeated in other scenes and contexts throughout the film, like the march up the volcano with tourches at night. Clever! Not only is movie funny, but there are lots of layers to it.  It's revealing of human nature, of the dichotomy of the 'artificial' and the 'real' and also has moments that are quite serious and touching in the depth of the underlying message. One such moment is at one point when Joe is close to death after the shipwreck on the ocean, in his weakness he is awakened to a spiritual realization of the preciousness and enormity of life. There is alot of very profound meaning that underscores the quirky comedy in this film. Therein lies it's real brilliance.

This really is an 'odd duck' of a movie, as it doesn't really know if it's a satire, a comedy, an offbeat drama, or what. But that's precisely why I think it's great and why it works. Highly recommended for repeat viewings.