This 1972 movie, maybe the last vampire film Hammer Studios did, is stunning on many levels. A Thank You card should be sent to Synapse Films for releasing it to North America. The transfer is very good. The special features are really SPECIAL and informative.

I had read a little about Vampire Circus in horror fan magazines before finally viewing an edited version on US television. Even in it's trimmed state Vampire Circus was a visual, emotional and visceral experience. Along with the obvious new freedom of showing more sex and violence, films of the early 70s questioned authority and left moral quandaries in the viewers head. Hammer followed this trend with Twins of Evil and Vampire Circus. In both movies the persecuted towns people are no longer innocent victims. Twins of Evil showed Peter Cushings Brotherhood witch burners/vampire killers just as evil as the vampiric Count Karnstein. The difference is they were misguided but Karnstein knew exactly what he was doing.

The villagers in Vampire Circus are basically self centered cowards who would almost sacrifice their children than confront a powerful nobleman. That the undead bloodsuckers in Vampire Circus seem to prefer killing children over adults is jaw dropping. Even in 1931s pre-Code Frankenstein Boris Karloff's monster only threw the little girl in the lake because he thought she would float like a flower. These undead are truly perverse and frightening. In 2011, this pedophilic plot does accomplish what most Hammer films fail at, it makes you queazy and really care about the victims. That this is exploitive is unquestionable. However, the artistry of this well made film in showing the hypocricy of normal people, makes one take the film seriously as a legitimate examination of our societies values.

The movie as a whole is very exciting. The first 12 minutes have so much intrigue and action the main body of the film almost seems like a sequel, but a GOOD sequel. Both Robert Tayman as lead vampire Count Mitterhaus and Anthony Corlin as his cousin Emil, who fulfils the Counts curse on the villagers, are handsome, sensual and menicing at the same time. Classic Hammer director Terrance Fisher stated in making Horror of Dracula with Christpher Lee in 1958 that he wanted to show the attractiveness of Evil. Vampire Circus director Robert Young definitely learned from the master.

A humerious side note, Cousin Emil seems downright stoned in parts. Hey, it was the 70s, and the deadpan expressions and crazed eye rollings could just as easily fit an undead monster who enjoys his work, as a young, long haired actor experiementing and enjoying the hedonistic decade. Everyone in the movie is perfectly cast. See this one.