The original kung-fu classic Five Fingers of Death is not only the first of its kind but still is the best directed and choreographed kung-fu film to date. 
Most kung-fu movies today are all about special effects (Yes...even WITH the kung-fu). Yeah, I've seen it all: Martial Artists flying in the air thinking they can defy gravity. Others punching their foes so hard that they literally fly fifteen feet forward into a brick wall (again defying gravity). But what did Five Fingers of Death have? Trampolines! And that was only for jumping in the air! If it wasn't for that trampoline idea, future kung-fu movies would've never have thought of using other crazy special effects that would make their characters almost look like gods. But to be honest with you, special effects have gone too far in today's kung-fu movies. I say the more realistic it is, the better. Anyway...when it came to the choreographed fight sequences in Five Fingers of Death, you can tell that these martial artists were for real. Not only do you see Chinese fists fly, but Japanese samurai slicing foes! The fight sequences with the sword-wielding samurai were again, very realistic. I may be crazy but I'm pretty sure that the swords(if not all the weapons)in the movie were real. Why? Well if you study carefully at the movie, you notice three things:
1)When our protagonist Chao Hao had to fight the two samurai, they seemed to have swung their swords very sluggishly, as if it were heavy.
2)You would hear very authentic sounds from the steel of the swords whenever they clashed with other bladed weapons.
3)The blades would shine whenever the sun was around.
Well, that pretty much convinced me. Even if the director didn't have real weapons in the movie, then you have to give the guy some credit for making it seem real. 
I'm a huge film critic and I must admit, the directing in this film was masterful! You don't believe me? Well, watch the movie again and you'll notice this director has done many camera techniques(even for a low budget film)that only a master director can think of. Here's one example: 
*SPOILERS AHEAD!*
When Chao Hao's old and new master dies, you notice that both turn green! Now why does the director do this? Well to be honest I'm not so sure myself, but I think it has something to do with the fact that they were both very close to Hao, and both were very wise. The director somehow wanted them to stand out, ya know, to make you realize that someone innoncent and important to Hao was dying. It could mean that, or it could be that they were just very pale after being tortured to death by that crazy villain. Either way, I thought it was a very interesting idea.
*SPOILERS END!* 
I could mention many other cool camera techniques the director has done, but by the time I tell you all this I would ruin your fun with the movie and the review would never end! So I'm going to say one more thing and then I'll be done:
If you're a big fan of kung-fu, then this classic is a must have. Don't overly expect too much from the film, but watch it with an open mind. Remember, it's the first of its kind. The action is excellent, the acting is great, the directing is masterful, and the film is original.