Fortunately for us in Australia, not just the USA, Walt Disney was forging ahead in leaps and bounds in both cinematic releases and television right up to his death in 1966.

With television only being introduced in Australia in time for the 1956 Melbourne Olympics, we were already starved for entertainment.  The Disney Studios successfully exported the "Disneyland" and "Mickey Mouse Club" TV shows to Australia, where despite only having been made for 3 years, the "Mickey Mouse Club" shows were broadcast for 14 years!!!  I even remember seeing the Mouseketeers when they toured here in 1959 and 1960, despite the fact that I was only 4 and 5 at the time... Yes I've been a Disney fan for almost 50 years!  For those who need to catch up, see <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0679757473">Walt Disney: The Triumph of the American Imagination (Vintage)</a>

Walt Disney was a true visionary and was responsible for the public acceptance of many major innovations including respectable theme parks and even space travel and exploration.  Walt's attitude of "keep moving forward" never allowed numerous instances of impending financial ruin to daunt his efforts to produce astounding improvements within the entertainment industry - from his innovations in animation techniques to the planning of Disneyworld and EPCOT in Florida.  Fortunately since his death in 1966, the Disney Corporation has continued this approach of constant improvement, despite ruining Walt's true plans for EPCOT.

ENCHANTED IS THE EPITOME OF ALL THINGS DISNEY.  It pays homage to Walt's great early animated triumphs, "Snow White" and "Sleeping Beauty" and infuses Walt's love for the combination of live action and animated characters right through to the extraordinary CG-animation perfected by the recently acquired Pixar Studios.  Some critics have failed to grasp the relevance to so many great Disney offerings handled so well under the clever writing by Bill Kelly and precise direction of Kevin Lima.  In true Disney form, characters fall in love almost instantly and are not daunted by their apparent non-conformtiy in modern day New York, for example, James Marsden's excellent portrayal of the affected Prince Edward.

To the uninitiated, the ending may appear to go a little off track, but again refers to the early Disney classics, including the poison apple and the transformation of the evil queen into an equally evil dragon.  Followed by the clever use of the pop-up book technique which takes Disney animation a step further.  These are made totally transparent and obvious in the Disney Blu-Ray DVD release.

Amy Adams portrays a true Disney Princess, like no other before her, and is offset well by the very corporatised Patrick (McDreamy) Dempsey.  Susan Sarandon also appears to have been born to play a Disney Evil Queen and Timothy Spall (Peter Pettigrew from the Harry Potter series) is a real life version of so many animated Disney sidekicks.  Congratulations also to (Aussie) John O'Connell for his all-inclusive, interpretative choreography so befitting a true Disney classic!

To sum up, I believe that Walt Disney would be EXTREMELY PROUD of this great offering which has been produced truly in his style 40 years after his demise.  For those with a Blu-Ray DVD player buy that version to truly appreciate the references to Walt's genius!