I just finished watching this amazing DVD and was anxious to get on here and was expecting to read some rave reviews on this new installment to the Disney Treasures Series.  To my surprise this volume so far has the lowest feedback rating....and it shocked me!  As I read thru the reviews I was truely disheartened as to how this volume has been criticized by some.  Since many others have done a great job filling you in on all the material that is on this DVD I will just cut to the chase and address some of the negative points that are mentioned in some of the other reviews as well as share my own feelings on the DVD set in general.

  First of all ths Disneyland Secrets Stories and Magic documentary is well done.  I honestly enjoyed it and it was a real treat to watch and listen to the first hand accounts from some of the very people who helped to make Disneyland a reality!  With all the rare footage it really brought the Disneyland story to life!  This documentary is certainly not "crap" as one reviewer stated.  I think this person along with some of the others who rated this feature negatively has to remember that all of us arent as knowlegable on Disny/ Disneyland and its history as many die hard Disney buffs and scholars may be.  This documentary was produced for what was supposed to be a DVD release intended for the general PUBLIC (not necessarily die hard Disney buffs) there for when you look at it in its proper perspective, this feature accomplishes all it was meant to.  Im sorry if some of you didnt gain any new information from this feature and you were left disappointed, but you should at least be able to find great value in the time capsule it is.

  People and Places Disneyland is a great addition to this DVD set!  Most reviewers were very favorable in their reviews of this installment so I wont spend much time defending it.  It is truely one of the highlights of this volume and is an awsome film to see and experience with the commontaries!

  Disc 2 in contrast to some reviews is GREAT!  The first feature OPERATION DISNEYLAND is very interesting for its historic value.  It was never intended to be entertaining but it is neat to see this alternate perspective of the opening day of disneyland.

  The Golden Horseshoe Revue is awsome! The original cast of the show is joined by some great guest stars.....the best and most entertaining being Ed Wynn and the lovely, beautiful and talented Annette Funicello.  Betty Taylor is a real treat to see here and her voice blew me away.  Walts introductions to the episode are as charming as always.  This is one not to miss.

  Disneyland Goes to the Worlds Fair and Disneyland Around the Seasons are both awsome Disneyland episodes to see come to DVD! They both contain some great footage of the now classic attractions that are enjoyed at Disneyland/ Disney World or both parks.  These two episodes along with The Golden Horseshoe are all 5 star shows and cant be missed!

Building Walts Dream is in the bonus feature section of this disc.  As other reviewers have noted this is REALLY intersting!  I cant believe they build that park in a year and how much they had to do yet when it was just months away from opening its gates!!!!  Dont miss this

  I honestly have no complaints about this DVD set!  Its a well put together DVD set that is deserving of being added to your DVD libraries.  One further note to this volumes "haters" out there......Have you ever heard the saying "Dont bite the hand that feeds you."???  WELL here is where I will come in defending Leonard Maltin.  Leonard Maltin steps in the very shoes of Walt Disney as host of the DVDs in this series.  He  does a fantastic job and I personally find his insight and introductions very appropriate and interesting!  He carries on the tradition of Walt himself and as a fan himself, he knows what questions we want answered in the interviews he does for these volumes.  Im quite sure if it wasnt for Leonard we wouldnt even have these DVDs to enjoy and many of these film elements would still be sitting in the vaults for eternity!  SO think about that before you go turning your nose up at these DVD sets.  When the series is canceled (which I hope is a long ways away) im sure you will be the first to complain and never realize that your being so hard to please was the result of their extinction.  Think about it and in the mean time ENJOY THESE DVDS....THEY ARE A TREASURE AFTER ALL!!