In the beginning of "Nightmare on Elm Street", we see shots of a girl being chased thru a abandoned factory. The girl (named Tina) is being chased by a man who seems to be wearing peculiar gloves that have knives coming out where the fingers should be. We don't see the man's facial features, but we see his sweater (which is ugly), and we see him stratch his claws against the cement wall and several pipes. Tina is, strangely enough, wearing a nightgown. Why? Because she is having a dream. A nightmare, to be precise. Suddenly, the killer jumps up behind her and cuts her. Tina wakes up screaming, and her nightgown is cut.
The opening Scene of "Nightmare On Elm Street" is a very intriguing one, one of the better opening shots I have seen in the horror movie. After watching these opening shots, you know this is not a normal slasher flick. We see Tina running from something awful and unhuman. We hear the scraping of knives on the wall.
I felt this film had far to many flaws to be a "masterful" as many people hailed it. For one thing, this is shockingly over-violent and gory, and Freddy Krueger, the killer in this film, is perhaps one of the most disgusting creations I have ever seen. The film's outer shell may seem more trashy than masterful, but it surprisingly manages to balance both quite well.
The story of "Nightmare" concerns a group of friends who all slowly come to the realization that they are all being stalked by the same character in their dreams. Their nightmares become fatal, for as soon as they fall asleep, the killer will come into their dreams and butcher them. Give or take a few minor plot details, but that's about it.  
Though we are led to believe the main protagonist is Tina, it is not to be. In the first thirty minutes of the film,  Freddy kills her.
Boy, does she ever! As she sleeps calmly in her bed, in her dream she walks outside alone. Low and behold, Freddy is waiting for her. He calls to her and using his knives, carves her up, literally. Nothing is left to the imagination.
Wes Craven has never had much subtly in his movies, and this one makes that obvious. Another death I remember is Johnny Depp's (I never saw it coming). There are tons of ghastly stuff in this movie, like a pile of snakes in mud and a girl attacked while she is talking a bath, and people being eaten by beds.
Why is this movie trashy? Because of its overtones of violence toward women, and Freddy's horrible nature, among other things. When the men are attacked they are fully clothed. When the women are attacked they are half naked. Tina's death was photographed in a suggestive way, and it looked as if she was being raped by Freddy.
Freddy himself is a child molestor (he has killed twenty children). His skin is burnt and looks creamy, and he laughs at the plucky heroines fear. He mocks her, torturing her with continuing visions of her butchered friends.
The movie is not a classic, but it is so well crafted I always felt threatened whenever the characters grew tired and nodded off. You've got to love the heroine, Nancy, who carries the film and learns quickly. The film is painfully disturbing, however, and is packed with tons of plot inconsistencies.
This is not the kind of movie one "enjoys". I enjoyed Wes Cravens most recent batch of films, the "Scream" series, due to their surprising intelligence and tension. While watching "Nightmare", you  question why you are watching. "Nightmare" pulls no punches.
Sonetimes repulsive, sometimes innovative, "Nightmare" is a terrific film and should be viewed by those who think they can withstand it all. This is the kind of movie where the monster come from under and above you, instead of from the side. Wicked, gruesome, and the best B movie I have ever seen.