A number of years back, when the Ghostbusters movies were finally released on DVD, I missed out on them. With this release, I've finally got two of my favorite movies in my collection. The movies, as always, are wonderful, and a apooky laugh a minute.  However, this two-pack has something the previous one didn't have; a small scrapbook on the making of the movies, and two episodes of the animated Ghostbusters series, which I loved as a kid.

The two episodes are: "Citizen Ghost", a first-season episode which details the events following the first movie, and "Partners in Slime", an episode from the short-lived "Slimer! and the Real Ghostbusters" spinoff series, in which Louis Tully and Janine are kidnapped by Poso, the Ghostfather, who wants the GB operation turned over to his control, forcing the guys to enlist the reluctant cooperation of one of Poso's ghouls from inside the containment unit and a bucket of the psychoreactive slime from "Ghostbusters II" dumped over Venkman to give him some supernatural powers, to save their friends.

Personally, I thought "Citizen Ghost" was a great choice for the DVD set, as it picked up right where the first movie ended, though I would've gone with something else for the second choice. Exactly which episode, I'm not sure, but it's because of "Partners in Slime" that I've rated this at four stars.

What I want to know is when are they going to release ALL of "The Real Ghostbusters" on DVD?  I'll be first in line to buy it, as it was one of my top faves when I was young.

And while we're talking "Ghostbusters", it would be foolish of anyone to not see the fanfilm "Freddy vs Ghostbusters", made by a group of people in Denver, in which Freddy Krueger has been terrorizing a new city, including the dreams of a new guy who becomes a Ghostbuster with Egon's nephew Ed Spengler, and Ed's friend Eugene.  The FX in this fanfilm are virtually identical to the 'real' movies, and though short, (and Freddy admittedly could've been better) this fanfilm embraces the spirit, pardon the pun, of the Ghostbusters movies, with the same type of dry humoer amid supernatural terror. They are now working on a sequel.

(...)
You might want to sit back and enjoy the Ghostbusters 'trilogy'!