I had really liked this movie for the first 30 minutes or so. However, I quickly became aware that this film was a narcissistic autobiography that was also serving as anti-Chinese, anti-communist propaganda. I am not Chinese and I am not pro-communist, let me get that out of the way now! However, when a movie highlights all of the flaws of one side, and only highlights all of the positives of the other side, that is a big giveaway that a book or movie is propaganda! Li Cunxin literally thinks the grass is greener on the other side. You can see how he preferred Western women over Chinese women and preferred American architecture, lifestyle and culture. He did come off as selfish in the movie. Let's be honest, he would still be a peasant in rural China if the Chinese government didn't train him as a ballet dancer. He wasn't grateful to them for helping him in his formative years. He abandoned his own country and his family after spending 3 months in America. I don't know, maybe he was brainwashed? Texas is a very Republican state. Perhaps he knew he was special and resented Communist China for not properly compensating him? I did further research while watching the movie and realized that Li eventually became a stockbroker. I know I might be generalizing, but that profession speaks volumes about what kind of personality and political views a person has. I know of another movie by a stockbroker who also portrayed himself as some wonder figure, the guy who wrote the book "The Pursuit of Happyness." I started to realize that the movie was all about what a great guy Li Cunxin was, and how he's better than everyone else and why China is such a bad place to live.

I really wasn't expecting to be hit with the propaganda sledgehammer when I rented this movie. The message is also anachronistic, because China is very modern and capitalist now. There was also a lot of hypocrisy. He appears to criticize the Chinese government for making ballet dancers dance with guns and perform propaganda shows, but doesn't also realize that America is also obsessed with guns and war movies? Does he not realize that he also created propaganda himself with his book and movie?

If you want a sappy, feel-good, biased pro-America movie that ignores the facts and reality, this movie might be for you. If you are educated enough to spot blatant propaganda and hate being emotionally manipulated, skip Mao's Last Dancer!