Stanley Kubrick is my 2nd favorite director (1st is Alfred Hitchcock), and his direction in "A Clockwork Orange" is one of the reasons why I consider him the greatest American director of all time. This film is filled with mind-bending and twisted images, and when the movie ends, you'll be thinking about it afterwards, and maybe even for days, because it's just so unforgettable, with the direction, the acting, the music. "A Clockwork Orange" is truly a one-of-a-kind movie that I don't feel really fits in a single genre.
  "A Clockwork Orange" takes place in a futuristic (and hyper-sexualized) London, where Alex DeLarge (played by Malcolm McDowell is a definitive role), and his 3 "droogs", Pete, Georgie, and Dim, go around beating and raping people; something they call "the old ultra-violence". Later on, his droogs betray him and leave him bleeding after one of them smashes a milk bottle in his face, and he gets taken by the police and incarcerated for 14 years. Later he becomes a volunteer for the Ludovico technique, a 2 week treatment where he is forced to be subjected to ultra-violent movies, which make him physically ill from anything violent or sexual after the 2 weeks, when he is cured. He is later beaten up by multiple people whom he beat up after he is released.
  The first 15-30 minutes are filled with disturbing and sexual images, but they're all important to the rest of the film. It's filled with quick editing, a great use of color, long shots, sped-up/slowed-down scenes, and the result is a film that can hold up for decades and decades from now, because everything is unique. The direction from Stanley Kubrick, the acting, especially from Malcolm McDowell, the electronic and classical music composed by Wendy Carlos, and, of course, Beethoven, the thought-provoking messages, and just about everything else. While "A Clockwork Orange" isn't my favorite Kubrick movie, it's definitely one of my favorites.
  This DVD for "A Clockwork Orange" isn't bad either, but other than production notes and the original theatrical trailer, there's nothing else on it, even though it's still very good.