In Blade II, the Daywalker joins forces with those he hunts to stop a new evil that threatens both.  With a few added details, that's it, really.
I didn't really enjoy Blade II as much as I did its predecessor.  Partly this is because I have a hard time believing the cosmology of the Blade altiverse, which takes a lot of what is commonly accepted about the nature of vampires and throws it out the window.  Now, this wouldn't bother me if what replaced the common knowledge made sense, but it often doesn't, and what you're left with is a lot of internal discontinuity and illogic where it seems the filmmakers ignored their own rules or made up new ones to suit themselves whenever the old ones got in the way.
Another reason I didn't enjoy this flick as much was the style of the film-making itself. There was something odd about the lighting, particularly in the early parts of the movie, that made the film just plain hard to see.  It was dark and monochromatic in a way that my eyes and brain just couldn't deal with.  It actually reminded me very much of a low resolution video game, and was just as annoying.  
The action and fight sequences were also treated poorly, with the camera leaping around so much that you just couldn't see enough of the martial arts to appreciate them, or even tell what was going on at times.  I prefer it when martial arts sequences are filmed from a still camera;  when the hero's doing an amazing crab kick I want to see it, not suddenly be looking down the villain's ear.  Here, too, the lighting did the action a disservice.  One early fight sequence that could have been quite interesting was filmed in front of a bank of floodlights so bright that the action was totally lost;  others were swallowed in shadow or overpowered by weird reflections.
On the other hand, there were several good things about this movie.  I always like Wesley Snipes, Ron Perlman was chilling as Blade's antagonist, and Kris Kristofferson was worth bringing back from the dead.  The costumes and makeup were pretty good (although the latter did have overtones of "Buffy") and the effects were well done.  The script, although a little predictable, was for the most part pretty good, presenting a story that made sense and held together well.  All these things went a long way to redeeming a movie that could have been a total dud, but still didn't make it as good as the original.
Worth Renting on your next movie might.