Platoon is the first film on the subject of war that was directed by a war veteran, Oliver Stone.  The son of a wealthy family, Stone dropped out of Yale during the Vietnam War, volunteered as a private for the infantry, and was twice wounded and decorated.  In 1975, as Saigon was falling, he decided to relive his experiences of the war by writing a loosely autobiographical screenplay about them.  Stone decided to do it then because he feared that his familiarity with the war would soon be forgotten.  His screenplay of Platoon took 11 years to become a film, and became what is not only one of the best movies about war, but also a great achievement that compares powerfully with the most impressive movies in cinematic history.
 Charlie Sheen plays the role of Chris Taylor (a character who Stone based on himself), a callow yet well-meaning youth who volunteered for the war because he thought it was his patriotic duty and because he doesn't want to become a "fake human being."  He immediately realizes the horrible atrocities and brutality of war, as he provides a unique narrative through letters he writes to his grandmother.  The viewers, along with Chris, discover that the Vietnam War is a land with an ever-present atmosphere of danger, where every sound and movement brings an ominous threat of death.  As Chris loses his innocence, he witnesses the killing and torturing of Vietnamese villagers by American soldiers (who depend on drugs and alcohol to assuage their difficulties), betrayal, and a strong animosity within the platoon he's a member of.  The most notable of his experiences, however, is a moral battle that is fought over him by the saintly and pure Sergeant Elias (Willem Dafoe) and the wicked, malevolent Sergeant Barnes (Tom Berenger).
 Released seven long years after Francis Ford Coppola's Apocalypse Now, Platoon was the next major film to seriously illustrate the Vietnam War.  What makes Platoon much different from Apocalypse Now is that Platoon does not strive too much to be artistic and also depicts the war more authentically.  In fact, the gritty realism of Platoon might make moviegoers incorrectly guess that it preceded Apocalypse Now.
 Platoon, like all of Stone's films, is nearly flawless in its making.  The cinematography, by the great Robert Richardson, is frankly remarkable.  Richardson's work with Platoon is brilliant and captures the violence and threatening feel of war.  Furthermore, the editing by Claire Simpson is equally praiseworthy.  In addition, one of the most special aspects of the film is the tremendously haunting and emotionally powerful use of Samuel Barber's "Adagio for Strings," which was arranged and conducted by Georges Delerue (who also provides the original music for the film).  Most importantly, however, is Stone's directing, which is displayed passionately in Platoon, and which makes this film even more of a masterpiece than the movie would have been with a different director.
 There is not one slacker in the cast of Platoon.  Every performance is delivered with strength and inspiring drama.  Sheen, as the disillusioned Chris, is simply amazing and does not render his character as being too solemn or innocent.  The true standouts, however, are Dafoe and Berenger.  Dafoe, as the Christ-like Sergeant Elias (who Stone considered having a Native American Indian portray), is convincing and charismatic.  His character never loses his moral compass and he depicts this fervently.  Tom Berenger performs frighteningly as Sergeant Barnes, the embodiment of evil and the symbol of the harsh realities of life (Barnes declares at one pivotal moment of the movie that "I am reality").  Berenger's performance is overshadowing and haunting as the exact opposite of Sergeant Elias, and makes the character of Barnes one of the most memorable villains in cinema.
 Platoon should be admired by all.  The film never tries to be too sentimental, yet is nonetheless quite emotional and hugely dramatic with its messages that war is a horrific and unpleasant event and that the enemy is often within ourselves.  It is an important movie that depicts the horrible nature of war with ardor, and will be remembered and as a classic and an accomplishment that surpasses other movies in its field.