There is a long list a stars in the movie. Which by precedent already would give any movie a nod in the wrong direction which spiral this to be a loose plot, simplified action and text book romance sequences. - But not this time.

"True Romance" may very well be in the top ten of greatest action films of all time ranging in the same category as such classics as "Leon: The Professional, John Woo's The Killer, The Matrix" and so on.

Christian Slater plays his role of a down and out comic book salesman and kung fu movie lover fantastically as he celebrates his birthday alone by getting a beer and going to the movies.

In walks Patricia Arquette who instantly ignites passion and clicks through to Christian's true character. They experience their first night together and are immediately in love - hense True Romance.

Before the mobster storyline takes place, you really appreciate these two people who in the whole mess of life and experiences, find true romance between each other and make anyone who watches this wish they could have such a love in their life.

From beginning to end you are entranced in first the wonderful dialogue that Christian and Patricia exchange and follow up with hitting the road, then as you are beginning to settle in the love story, in crashes Christopher Walken as a head mobster and rolls out with co-star Dennis Hopper once the most brutal but spectacular scenes in film history (you will know when you see it).

The performances are splendid by all, and the extreme violence make this Bonnie and Clyde type of movie all the more enjoyable.

This two-disc edition of True Romance is a must have for anyone. Even if you haven't seen this, I suggest you just purchase it right away so you won't have to waste time renting it. Beleive me, you'll want to give this a few viewings!

The only thing I did not like about this director's cut, but can still be seen elsewhere in the disc set, are the deleted scenes. This is the rare movie in which all the scenes that were deleted, should have actually remained in the movie. I would enjoyed "True Romance" just that much more if Tony Scott and Quentin Tarantino spliced the deleted scenes back in.

Other than that, this remains a classic on the all levels. Superb.