I'm struck by the polarization of reviews of this film, and cannot help but wonder why. I buy a lot of movies based on a lot of reviews, but I rarely see a distribution of reviews like this. Frankly, this is the best I've seen from either lead actor, and their performances help to make this a GREAT movie for a first or second date.

Also, by virtue of both story line and writing, this film is one of the best I've seen in the romance genre for some time. With regard to the writing, I was repeatedly struck by how fresh, direct, and honest all of the dialogue was. More was "laid on the table," so to speak, than I am used to seeing in a film of this genre. The character of Mr. Gere's character was painfully exposed in a number of scenes, and he was allowed to grapple with it in a real and compelling way.

------ A "Politically Incorrect" Discussion of Male Emotionally Arrested Development -------

At a deeper level, I was struck by the moral dimension as it was portrayed through the lens of gender. From a male point of view, Mr. Gere's character is totally believable and totally natural. One would hope that he would have grown out of the "womanizing" portion of it by 48 years of age, but men succumbing serially to the charms of women is what we men do (with considerable support from women).

At some point (for some, much later than others), most men grow out of "womanizing," (or give up the endeavor when it becomes too much effort). But in this, and other, films "womanizing," as it is unsympathetically called, is not cast as a developmental issue. Instead it is portrayed by the lead female character as a moral one.

Mr. Gere's character had the assets to string "womanizing" out well into middle age (again, with considerable help from women). However, it might more productively be discussed in terms of arrested development (the "Peter Pan" or "Hugh Hefner" syndrome, perhaps) than in moral terms (i.e. when sexually involved with one woman, it is morally wrong to have sex with another).

Yes, lying is often involved and it is disagreeable. But, calling it "morally wrong" is to selectively and conveniently ignore context. If you doubt this, consider how often women (and I imagine, to a lesser degree, men) feel compelled to lie by withholding information about one member of their family from one or more others in it. The rationale in very often to avoid causing pain "unnecessarily" to those kept in the dark.

Had I to guess, I imagine that Mr. Gere's character was far less concerned about his own discomfort with his behavior than in sparing Miss Ryder's character's feelings. Recall, that this man made a point of being very clear from the beginning that there was no future other than the present. Also recall that this is a man (character) who had probably understood all his adult life that he could have sex four nights out of every seven with different women. Finally, bear in mind that he did not lie to Miss. Ryder's character. When she asked, he evaded her questions so badly that it was really a form of admission. SHE was the one who pounced by defining a "womanizer" as "a man who has sex with lots of women and is very good at lying about it."

I grant that Gere's character was not acting out of altruism. He wished to spare his own feelings as well. Men are not stupid, and it doesn't take much experience with women to know that they are going to be REALLY upset to discover that the man with whom they want an exclusive relationship is just not ready/willing/able to reciprocate.

Women, if you want the truth from men, consider doing two things that are more difficult than immediately wrapping yourselves in the flag of morality: First, understand that every man learns to lie to women by feeling compelled to lie to his mother. The point is that men do not feel emotionally COMFORTABLE lying anymore than women do. They feel emotionally COMPELLED to do so.

So, if you want honesty ABOVE ALL ELSE, then lay the ground work for it from the beginning, and teach the guy that you can forgive ANYTHING more easily than you can forgive a LIE. If you are consistent in this, YOU are far likelier to win in the end. Gosh! What a concept. This lets the man know that honesty is the most important thing you want and need from him (if that is true, otherwise, at least assert that honesty is so important that, breaching it will be a "deal breaker" for the relationship).

Second, SLOW DOWN. YOU may be ready to have sex because YOU are ready to be monogamous, but YOU are not the only one in the relationship, and YOUR needs are not the only ones that are important (if in fact it is a lasting relationship that you want).

Men are ready to have sex LONG BEFORE they are ready to settle into a monogamous relationship. This IS NOT rocket science. IF you make yourself available for sex BEFORE HE is where YOU are, then YOU risk YOUR heart.

IF you want the relationship to last long enough to see if it is what you BOTH want, then don't sabotage the process that neither of you created... BE PATIENT (and abstinent) until you BOTH know enough about the other to know YOUR HEARTS.

Doing this does not guarantee true love forever, but it changes the odds GREATLY in its favor. This is why the so called "Sexual Revolution" of the 1960s to present has worked against the REAL NEEDS of women.

When it comes to sex, men are VERY TRAINABLE. However, once trained, they (we) are VERY DIFFFICULT to re-train, entrain, etc. This is not their (our) fault. It is, with RARE exception, their (our) Nature and you transgress/cross/ignore that Nature at your own peril.

Once you (and your sisters) train men to enjoy sex outside of committed relationships, the inconvenient truth is that when you decide you are ready for commitment, your chosen guy is just as likely as not to move on to another woman who is only too ready to take your place. Ultimately, this works against the best interest of males as well as females)by encouraging their adolescence indefinitely (as Mr. Gere's character demonstrates only too well).