Rio Bravo is definitely a great western and a great all-round film of any genre. I can't really say anything that others haven't already stated, so I'll concentrate on the actual DVD releases.

At this point I have seen all 3 different DVD releases of Rio Bravo - the standard DVD from around the time that DVDs first came on the scene, the deluxe 2-Disc Special Edition from a few years ago, and the Blu Ray edition. FYI: I project films using a Panasonic PT-AX200U 3 LCD video projector onto a standard white 8ft 8in pull-down screen. I have to say that, without a doubt, the original single disc DVD looks the best, even when projected large.

Turns out that for the deluxe 2-Disc special edition, they used the exact same print of the film as for the original DVD and only increased the color saturation. Of course, the color is much more vibrant in the 2-Disc, but it's a fake vibrancy, done merely by adjusting the transfer of the same slightly flawed source used in the first release. The increased saturation causes noticeable loss in detail and naturalness. Dean Martin's skin is almost orange, he looks like he used a spray tan throughout. They added a few extras, one of which is a "Making Of" featurette. In this "Making of," color-wise, the scenes from Rio Bravo that they use are nearly identical in appearance to the original DVD release, proving that the original DVD is actually closer to the look of the original film.

The Blu Ray, unfortunately, is the over-saturated transfer from the Two-Disc edition copied onto a Blu Ray disc, and as often happens, this actually causes some transfer issues, so the worst release of all is the blu ray edition. I'm just glad I got the blu ray out of the library and didn't pay for it, because I would have been mad. Don't buy the Blu Ray, buy the 2-disc only if you want the featurettes, and if you really want the best DVD currently available, look for a copy of the first, no-doubt much cheaper, release.

All this confirms that it's way past time for an honest-to-goodness restoration & remastering of Rio Bravo.