A Bug's Life has been one of my favorite movies since it came out. My kids and I watched it over and over for years, and oddly the story never got old, and the lines were always funny. The animation is incredibly good, and the character modeling is great considering that the characters are supposed to be creatures who essentially are all identical.

There are many reviews that compare A Bug's Life to Antz. What amazes me is that some people think Antz is the better movie. I don't know how that is possible, except that maybe they are swayed by the bigger names of the voice actors in Antz. (though Phyllis Diller, Roddy McDowell, Kevin Spacey, and Julia Louis-Dreyfuss are not exactly nobody) But even if we give Antz the edge in the voice actors, that's the end of it. A Bug's Life has beautiful animation with incredible attention to detail. In Antz I felt like i was watching something half-baked and unfinished. A Bug's Life is perfectly crafted in every scene. The inventiveness in A Bug's Life is of the first rank. It's hard to imagine how Pixar came up with so many delightful scenes and unusual story twists. I'd mention some, but if there is anyone considering buying this movie for the first time, it's just better if you see them yourself without prior knowledge of what's going to happen. In short, Antz could have been done in puppet theater without losing anything, but A Bug's Life feels like cutting-edge story telling that advances the medium of animation, while showing that computer animation can be beautiful, absorbing, and a memorable virtual experience, yet it never overshadows the brilliant writing; it supports it.

After 11 Pixar animated feature-length movies and even more animated shorts, A Bug's Life still holds its own in the collection of the most innovative animated movies of all time. Pixar shows us again and again why Disney so coveted its output that Disney had to buy Pixar. What's amazing is that even now, with the tremendous advances in Pixar's technological breakthroughs, this movie never feels like it was done with old technology. Its beauty and story are as fresh today as they were 10 years ago. A Bug's Life is an important step along the Pixar trail; not to be missed!