Evan Almighty, the big blockbuster movie, is the sequel to Bruce Almighty. In Bruce Almighty, Jim Carrey gets to play god, however on the sequel, Evan played by Steve Carrell doesn't get to play god instead he gets to plays Noah. Returning to the movie is Morgan Freeman who gets to play god again, only this time he isn't going to lend his power to Evan, instead he has some work for him. Freeman orders Evan to build an ark for the upcoming flood.
As mentioned before, Evan Almighty is considered a sequel to Bruce Almighty since Morgan Freeman plays the god part again, only this time he has bigger plans for Evan and isn't going to lend him powers like the last movie. However, the movie starts with Evan moving to Washington D.C. with his wife Lauren Graham (Gilmore Girls) and three kids that really look like Carrell because he won a seat in congress. His campaign slogan "Change the World" is basically his main objective, he strives to make a difference and make the world better as a congressman. His job starts with the famous ignore the kid's policy and look like a work-a-holic until he comes to a bill about cutting forest trees that he must support, the bill is being lead by actor John Goodman who plays a typical fat congressman.
During one of the many funny scenes, Morgan Freeman or God invades Evan's private life trying to get him to do some work for him. God wants Evan to build an ark, since an imminent flood is approaching. As he is building the famous ark, Evan begins to grow a beard which he can't lose, no matter how many times he shaves. Later on, as the ark building progresses, his long beard turns white, and he begins wearing a vintage tunic (similar to the one Jesus wore), as mentioned in the movie by Wanda Sykes, he looks like a member of the Bee Gees. Also, during the ark building, every single member of the animal kingdom appeared, of course in pairs.
After the flood scene, the movie's conclusion part starts with Evan being in a hiking trip (an action he had promised his family members in doing at the very beginning of the movie) where he finds god, Freeman tells Baxter that if he really does want to change the world, the only way is through acts of random kindness (which coincidently spells ark). I felt completely satisfied from seeing the movie, the story telling, the acts of random kindness, and the funny scenes made the perfect combination of a comedy. When seeing the cover my expectations weren't that high, but I was really outburst by the movie since it really is a comedy of biblical proportions.
Although you might find the ending a little cheesy, the movie itself is worth viewing due to its wonderful cast and well intended Christian theme. As many critics enjoyed its predecessor over the sequel, this movie is much more appealing to entire families instead of teenagers as was Bruce Almighty.