"My Neighbor Totoro" is certainly one of Hayao Miyazaki's most magical, and it is nice to see the Special Edition version released. But one would expect the Most Special Thing of such a release should be the best quality picture possible for a DVD.

The Disney-fied English dub -- that is, their propensity to re-record audio using actors whose names the public will better recognize in order to sell these more broadly -- is pretty good. (It's an understandable compromise considering Miyazaki's films deserve wider recognition.) And not too surprising the audio mastering effort given to English was not duplicated for the Japanese language track. (Although it's a bummer!) But it's the same English audio that was released in the widescreen version from 2006. Nothing new here.

The MOST IMPORTANT of a release is the quality of the movie picture itself -- And Disney sold out and short-changed us. They did not have the film restored nor remastered. Yes, it is better than the Full Screen DVD edition that was released in the early 2000s. But it is not improved on the widescreen DVD version released in 2006. Still, to my eye, it looks too grainy and soft, and with a lot of artifact flicker. It's really a shame, given the advantages of releasing together with "Ponyo" that they wouldn't take the opportunity to have Lowry Digital restore this film's image quality like they've had them do for so many Disney animated classics. And for that matter, had Lowry done the work on this we could have seen a Blu-ray edition as well.

The other Miyazaki films released in this latest Special Edition wave -- "Kiki's Delivery Service" and "Castle In The Sky" -- have video quality that is not improved over earlier DVD releases, either. These releases are a scar on the legacy of John Lasseter's creative Disney leadership to supposedly champion more 2D animation, and especially because of his affection for Hayao Miyazaki's work. My low rating is a reflection on what Disney has done here, and not on the filmmaking itself.