The Old West - that age when a man could offer to marry a woman the same way he offered her a chair.  An age when a raging horde of twenty Injun savages might attack - and you'd kill thirty of `em - and still be chased by the same twenty.  A time when wooing women required offering them some water, the aforementioned chair, and the following lines:

Wayne: "You got no folks.  Neither do I.  I watched you with that baby...I got a ranch.  It's real nice.  A man could live there.  And a woman.  Wanna go?"
Dallas: "You don't know me."
Wayne: "I know all I want to know."

Stagecoach rekindled cliches of strong, silent men of the West and the anonymous villains they kill.  But it also drew complexity, weaving three redemption stories into a significant critique of social mores.

First, Wayne (come on - you can't honestly call him "Ringo"), a convicted murderer out to avenge his father and brother (turns out, it was justified homicide).  Second, his love interest, a woman of ill-repute (the recipient of Wayne's terse wooing) who proves her merit in the face of social prejudice.  Third, the good doctor, who rises from his liquor as the (highly literate) town drunk to deliver a baby, shoot some Injuns, and stand down a thug.

The rest of the cast includes an embezzling banker (ironically condemning government thieves who waste a "billion dollars a year" and calls for a businessman to serve as president - even as he absconds with the bank's money), a Confederate gambler, a cowardly whiskey drummer, and an austere, pregnant lady who refuses to sit by the prostitute but ultimately recognizes her kindness.

The highpoint of the battle with those Injun savages involves Yakima Canutt (Wayne's stunt double) pulling a marquee stunt by leaping from horse to horse on the racing coach to recapture the reins from the lead horse.  No wonder them Injuns was so hard to kill!

Stomaching the killin' of a bunch a Injuns is a tolerable price to enjoy the majestic vistas of Monument Valley, Utah, and a story that drips with irony like a thick Texas steak.