The first time I saw Springsteen, I was no fan.  I was invited to a concert by a lady friend whose judgment I respected and who had the connections to nab two good tickets at the LA Coliseum.  We arrived late, and as we walked toward the stadium, I was disappointed by the sound I heard in the open night air, and not knowing his shows were entirely solo, told her "I hope that's the warm up band."  She just smiled sweetly and said, "we'll see."  When we got inside and seated we were close enough to see clearly the body language of each of the performers but far enough away to rely upon the screens for close ups.  As we were locating our seats, this subtle transformation began to occur.  As if by magic, I found myself being drawn into the magnetism of the performance. Here, there was no sense of someone acting on stage, just someone expressing in sound who he was and his perceptions of the world about him from the bottom of his gut and revealing his heart like an open book in searing lyrics.  This he managed to convey without an ounce of idiosyncratic sentimentality but instead through finding in the particulars of his lyrics, a universal dimension of the human experience conveyed at once in word and through the timbre in his voice.  When this man who I would learn in the course of this evening to call The Boss, played his music, it was abundantly clear that he and the band felt this music in their bones, and that feeling penetrated each expression of the Boss' face and his entire body language, and the depth of this feeling simply became contagious, catching the entire coliseum on fire.  By something over the halfway mark, we could no longer confine our enjoyment to our seats.  We got up and skipped to the edge of the crowd where we found enough open space to dance our way through the rest of the concert.  To appreciate a Springsteen concert, requires then as now, all five senses in play. And you'll benefit if you bring your sixth sense to bear as well.  This DVD is the closest thing to being there that is commercially available today.  It's imperfect just like the rest of life.  But at least until they release a DVD concert composite of Springsteen, 1975-2000, you'll never witness a better rock concert on DVD and this one on DVD beats out most you'll ever see live.  This DVD is not recommended for the optional list.  This is a no-brainer slam dunk.  This one won't sit gathering dust on your library shelf.  Anyone with a heart and soul will be drawn magically, to pull this one out and play it again and again and again...