Pretty much everything that needs to be said about Paladin's story has been said here - except his origin episode, available but not on this DVD. You need to see this. Not to give anything away, but he is a lot more than you think he is..

Second, though Paladin might quote Browning or Pliny to some local yokels who look at each other wondering who this consarned dude in black is talking about, the thing I like about his lifestyle is the way he consorts (and I use that word correctly) with some of the ladies of Old San Francisco at his suite in the Hotel Carlton. In one episode, he is escorting a lady down the stairs who is obviously still adjusting her clothing and whom he does NOT walk to the door: pretty daring stuff for 1957 TV! In the same episode, Paladin whispers something into the ear of a particularly attractive woman who appears to either be a (term again used advisedly..)mulatto or asian. Believe me, no other 1950's western "hero" EVER talked to a woman who wasn't white, and especially not whispering something which made her giggle. Then again, she's coming down the same staircase...perhaps a menage?

At the very same time, Paladin is a complete gentleman: he always doffs his hat in the presence of a lady, even if he is the only one to do so. And he never talks down to Hey Boy either, who is in a way his assistant (and associate).

Boone was likely the best actor in the complete era of the Cowboy TV Show. There were up-and-comers (Steve McQueen, Gene Barry, Hugh O'Brien, Wayde Preston) and guys who had already been there (Guy Madison, Roy Rogers, Jock Mahoney, Scott Brady). But on acting talent, Boone had 'em all covered every time.

The Paladin character is a one-of-a-kind: there has never been another like him, and praise be there hasn't been some hackneyed "remake" of Paladin starring some young Hollypunk either. Buy this upon my guarantee that you will like it. But be warned: Paladin sells no wolf tickets - when he threatens, he follows through. He likes talking lovingly about his weapons...and never denies he is a hired gun. Thus, he may be the only "bad guy" to ever star in a successful cowboy TV series. And every episode begins with a spoken threat from him. Unique, no?