The biggest surprise for me when first experiencing this set of the Ring was the effect of considerable movement - much of it fast and urgent. This is a concept far from the old style of `stand and deliver' and it achieves a considerable accumulative effect when followed through the whole set of four operas. For the purposes of this review I will restrict myself to considering the broad issues relating to this set. More specific comments can be found under the individual issues which can be bought separately.

Quick movement is important to this production as mentioned above. Considerable use is made of the vast stage at Bayreuth so that the settings can be built on an appropriately huge scale and so that characters can move rapidly around unfettered by limitations of space. This enables this entire production to differ fundamentally from many other conceptions that are more constrained by spatial considerations and which frequently have far less urgent movement and which have to rely upon other means to achieve their purpose.

Quite apart from the purely musical considerations, this set makes extensive use of laser technology. This is often in the form of shafts of light than can vary in thickness from narrow shafts to sheets of colour.

The time period is established as modern to futuristic but of an indeterminate moment. This is achieved via costumes and stage sets which are a mixture of function and abstraction. Key dramatic staging moments are effective - such as Valhalla, the Nibelung realm, toad catching, Mime's furnace, the dragon fight, Brunnhilde's rock etc. The sense of the epic is totally established throughout this set along with the awareness of Wotan's essential instability of character which makes him vulnerable to the errors of judgement which inevitably lead to his and the gods ultimate downfall. This is drama writ large and Barenboim, the producer, the cast and the orchestra fully deliver on all counts.

None of this would be worthwhile of course if the musical values were inadequate. In this case the whole cast delivers consistently high standards with not a weak moment anywhere. Wotan, as an unpredictable and dominant God is superb throughout and in magnificent voice. Loge fulfils his distantly scheming role well. Alberecht is powerful and delivers his curse effectively, Mime is a much stronger and more believable character than usual and Jerusalem, as Siegfried, avoids appearing to be a spoiled brat. He is at the peak of his form and, to my mind, is far more effective here than in the Levine/Met performance. Hunding and Hagen are both satisfyingly menacing and Seigmunde and Seiglinde make a convincing pair. Brunnhilde sings outstandingly throughout and is a totally believable pivotal characterisation. The recorded sound fully supports Barenboim's driving energy. In a word -marvellous.

The recording dates from 1992 but has already been digitally enhanced and would presumably be a strong candidate for a future Blu-ray presentation. What cannot be solved is the considerable amount of trailing light as the film technology of the time could not keep up with the faster actions in the predominantly dark lighting. However I personally find the trailing image effects surrounding the various characters as they move swiftly about rather effective as it emphasises their essentially unpredictable and often unbalanced mental and physical speed. Strange, as normally I would find this a distracting visual problem but it is almost a total positive here. The sound is thrillingly 'real' and is presented in DTS 5.1 and stereo.

I unhesitatingly find that this is my benchmark preferred version despite having owned two other highly respected video productions on DVD and Blu-ray and therefore equally unhesitatingly give it the full 5 stars even bearing in mind the 1992 recording issues as described above. This is further enhanced by currently being at an astonishingly low bargain price. Unmissable!