The TV series Angel tells the story of brooding vampire P.I. Angel (played by David Boreanaz) and his employees; at the beginning of this season, they include former Watcher Wesley (Alexis Denisof), former vampire hunter Gunn (J. August Richards) and former prom queen Cordelia (Charisma Carpenter) - the brains, muscle, and snark of the group, respectively. And in the course of the season, the Host (Andy Hallett) - a psychic demon who also happens to own a karaoke bar - and Fred (Amy Acker) - a batty young physicist - join the Fang Gang as well.
In this second season, Angel comes into its own, no longer in the shadow of its parent series. Angel's investigation agency is doing well, when things are derailed by the appearance of his dead sire, Darla (Julie Benz), brought to you by the demonic lawyers at Wolfram and Hart. Over the course of the season, Angel allows Darla and Wolfram and Hart trigger his spiral into darkness, culminating in his willingness to let Darla and the insane Drusilla (Juliet Landau) kill a roomful of W&H lawyers and in the firing of his employees. Only after he's had an epiphany and returned to make an uneasy peace with his former friends does the season conclude, in a rousing several-part finale that involves travelling to the otherdimensional Pylea in an effort to save Cordelia from her own delusions of grandeur.
Also, as one might expect from a spin-off TV series, there are cameos galore. Faith (Eliza Dushku), Spike (James Marsters), Harmony (Mercedes McNab), Willow (Alyson Hannigan)...all make appearances of some sort or another during the season. Of special note is Harmony's hysterically funny appearance during her visit with best friend Cordelia in the episode "Disharmony."
While it's not necessary to have seen either Buffy or the first season of Angel to understand this DVD set, it is helpful. And with the end of Buffy, fans of that show may want to move on to this one, which at times in recent seasons has eclipsed its parent series. And while this season is not the best, and is unusually dark even for Angel, it's still some of the best TV out there. Highly recommended.