I have a terrible habit of mostly reviewing things I love. Alien is a masterpiece, and will be forever remembered as a landmark film. It ties with "The Haunting" for my all time favorite movie. The two movies only have one or two things in common: the capability to make an audience afraid, a black and peculiar beauty, and the complete lack of sentimentality.

That last characteristic I listed is one of the widely-overlooked features of an awesome horror movie. YOU, the viewer feels pity for the characters, because no one else will. (The only exception to this is another classic-to my point view: The Sixth Sense, which depends heavily on the humanity of the characters.) Despite the fact that I only liked Ripley and Cain, (and that idiot cat) I SOOO DID NOT want any of the characters to run into the alien.

The alien is one very original monster. I love it because it is so original. I sound like I'm an old woman when I say this, however it must be said: the look and feel of this movie had never been done before. Species, V, X-files, and countless horror and scifi movies and stories took on the look of Alien after this movie came around, but this is the real deal. A deadly animal that looks like an animal. A spaceship that looks worn, used: a workplace for a group of blue-collar workers who love each other the only way a co-worker can (which is to say, yeah, they don't get along very well, or have much faith in each other).

Where did it come from? Where did Ridley Scott get this movie and its awesome monster from? How did he put all of these individual fragments of interesting things together to make a whole so seamless, it seemed as complete as the origin of Dracula (like it was based on a myth or something else)? A sweet and beleaguered screenwriter had an idea about an alien that killed you by having sex with you, and laying it's progeny in your body. (Ew. Wow. But on it's own, what would it have been? To be fair to O'Bannon, I like other things he's made, but the movie as it was would have been another briefly shocking horror movie, this time on a space ship.) O'Bannon liked a few scifi artists, and they were good. (But choose one, and not the other, the ship would have been a pretty prop, heavy with the look of the style of the artist. It would not have been a space ship that people would live and work in.) Geiger's art is impressive, and resonates an Alienesque vibe, (before there was an Alien) however his work is static, and does not translate into the medium of film on its own. Lastly, there's Sigourney Weaver, a brand-new, but wonderful actress in this movie. She and Jonsey the cat serve the same purpose: all of the characters kind of belong in the horror but them. They're there for contrast. Somehow, the director makes all of these odd and shiny objects come together as the masterpiece this is.

That gets me to the larger reason why this classic will endure. Why does Ripley constrast so much with the other characters, with the situation at hand, and even with the ship itself? The movie strikes me as an allegory for Hell. The entire movie (as O'Bannon put it) is alien, a place where nothing could escape or live. It's a lot like Virgil making his way through each ring of the Inferno: here in the first ring is Cain, then Dallas, Lambert and Parker...

Really really scary.

It's also a great fantasy. (Just think about it.) Who hasn't daydreamed about all of their co-workers getting eaten by space aliens? Or...maybe that's just me.