I have seen several videos of Madame Butterfly and I am delighted to own this one. Filmed on location in Tunisia, this wonderful production gives reality to this tragic story. It is sensitively portrayed with good singers who are also great actors. Pinkerton was perfect for the role - amazingly believable, with great acting ability as well as a good voice. Butterfly was also perfect in the role - a delicate, fragile flower with an excellent voice to match. The two together made magic. Goro, the marriage broker, was appropriately sinister, and the Consulate appropriately confused about how to handle this situation.

The down-side, however, was the director's creative license, which detracted quite a bit from this wonderful production. Two scenes in particular come to mind which I feel Puccini would have rolled over in his grave if he had seen them. The first one was the three flying ghosts at the wedding, who admonish Butterfly for converting to Christianity. In my opinion this was a real stupid interpretation, since the original libretto called for a real-live angry uncle crashing the wedding. The second, which I feel was an even worse offense, was when Butterfly and Suzuki wait for Pinkerton throughout the night. That musical scene in the opera, referred to as the "Humming Chorus," is haunting and is usually depicted with lighting effects as the evening slowly transcends into dawn. The director took liberties at this point to insert black-and-white vintage footage of 19th century Japan. Not only did this detract from the beauty of the scene and pull you completely out of the opera, but the clips were paced much faster than the music. He could have used his creativity instead to display a Japanese sunset, beautiful visual scenes of Japan, or just use effective lighting instead of changing the mood altogether. There were also several musical pauses during scene changes that broke the cadence of the music and brought you into reality with a thud. These were totally unnecessary and amateurishly done. The film should never take precedence over the music.

Generally speaking, even with these shortcomings, the entire production was a magnificent achievement and I would recommend it to anyone, especially to beginners who have never seen an opera. In my local opera group there wasn't a dry eye in the house.