At the opening of Orson Welles' 1941 film CITIZEN KANE, a dying old man drops a snowglobe as he whispers his last word "Rosebud". Some two hours later we learn that this puzzling utterance was the name of his beloved childhood sleigh. If this mystery was all there was to the film, I would be angry at the number of cartoons that have spoiled it. Luckily, however, "Rosebud" merely sets up the skeleton of the film. When a reporter goes to interview those who knew the deceased, the real drama of the story turns out to be the rise and fall of newspaper magnate Charles Foster Kane (played by Orson Welles himself).

Based on William Randolph Hearst, Kane is an inheritor to a great fortune, yet he chooses to work at a minor newspaper, turning it into the leading daily of New York City through abhorrent yellow press methods. Being able to create the news itself in determining what goes on the front page only feeds the fires of his megalomania. Driven to believe in his own greatness--while he simultaneously craves the love of those around him to validate himself--Kane goes from a popular man of the people to an eccentric recluse with two failed marriages and no friends left. As he sits in his vast estate, surrounded by an art collection he never even unwrapped, Welles convincingly relays the moral that possessions don't buy happiness.

I initially found the film difficult to appreciate in some aspects of production. The transitions between scenes are primitive, and the make-up used when Welles and a couple of others play old men is not convincing. However, the quality of the screenplay is more than sufficient to make up for the limitations of early 1940's film-making. The acting is superb as well. Though I find Welles more gripping as the younger and sociable Kane than the old recluse, many of the other actors play their roles with perfect naturalness. Surprisingly, many of these actors had never appeared on film before, which makes their achievement all the more impressive.

Evidentally no pristine transfer of the film exists. That's a real shame, but nonetheless the film is enjoyable even in its shoddy video quality. Writing reviews like this is somewhat unnecessary--CITIZEN KANE is such a legendary film that if you enjoy cinema you'll seek it out regardless of what I say.