Whether or not you're a fan of Tom Clancy novels, the plots can sure make for some great entertainment. While some of the Jack Ryan stories have had very mixed results as movies (I really did not like Alex Baldwin or Ben Affleck as the protagonist), Harrison Ford has been uniformly awesome in the role. It's just someone he was born to play if you ask me. In fact, I wish he was in every film in the series (that would have been fantastic). At any rate, Harrison Ford is fantastic in this movie, and he's surrounded by a great cast, in what has got to be my absolutely favorite modern political film (wouldn't quite call it a thriller).

The story (as I have been told, because I've never read a Clancy novel) was greatly truncated from the book, yet still manages to tell a great story. And the story is simple. The President of the United States faces a possible scandal involving someone he knew turning up dead after crossing some dirty business partners, and as this person was a friend of his, decides to carry out his own little secret war against the drug cartel in Columbia since they've become such a thorn in his side. Harrison Ford as Ryan is a honest and straight-shooting yet lovable guy who finds himself advising the President and investigating the cartels.

The whole story is really shown from four different perspectives. The hero protagonist is of course Ryan, and we follow him as he carries out his investigation. There is also the other government agents who are involved in the secret war and advise the president and conspire against Ryan.Then we have one of the drug lords who finds himself being attacked by the US government, and largely just gets angry and tries to figure out why everyone seems to be getting more and more ticked at him. Lastly we have the mysterious invisible man who manipulates everyone behind the scenes and spies on everyone, the REAL villain of the story in many ways.

The drama is fantastic as several stories unfold at once, Ryan's boss (played by James Earl Jones) slowly dies of cancer, a mercenary (Willem Dafoe) commands the secret operations team including one particularly sharp shooter, and Ryan gets closer and closer to finding out the truth about everything.

If action is your thing this movie has enough of that, with one sequence in particular being a standout. The invisible man sends assassins to take out Ryan and the people with him, and it's a supremely thrilling few minutes while rocket launchers take one one vehicle after another and Ryan tries to escape with his life and protect his friend. If you have a good sound system that sequence is a showcase. A very nice sound mix throughout this film, and the musical score by James Horner is also beautiful. The visuals are quite good also and the entire movie is very well shot, much like The Fugitive (none of that shaky hand-held garbage here!)

The dialog in this movie is great, and the end of the film has a very satisfying climax as Ryan finds out the truth, faces down the beaurocrats who lied to him, and leads a mission to save the troops who have been abandoned by the leaders of the country.

This film can be taken different ways, but to me it is a bold statement about integrity and nobility. In the entire movie Ryan never uses a gun even once, and he's the hero. His crusade is all about doing the right thing and believing in that, even when he discovers that he's the own one left who clings to such ideals. I'm not sure many actors could pull off such a performance and have such conviction, but Ford does a wonderful job portraying Ryan as the last good man in a country gone corrupt. It's really great stuff, and when you combine it with all the political intrigue and detective work of figuring out who is who and what is what in the investigation Ryan conducts, and the action between the troops and the Cartels, this is one great piece of entertainment with a strong message about doing what you know is right and honoring those who make sacrifices to do the same. Very highly recommended.