The movie Liar Liar, directed by Tom Shadyac, was a great movie.  Jim Carrey (Fletcher Reede) acted incredibly well, along with co-stars Maura Tierney (Audrey Reede), Justin Cooper (Max Reede), and Cary Elwes (Jerry).  Carrey was especially good in the scene where he was fighting against himself.  Fletcher could not tell a lie, due to the fact that his son's wish (that dad could not lie for 24 hours) came true, so he decided that he would write a lie, since he couldn't speak one.  He picks up a blue pen and attempts to write, "the pen is red."  Fletcher fights against himself: half of him trying to write that the pen is red, the other half of him forcing him to write that the pen is blue.

 The length of the movie was just right. It was just under an hour and a half (one hour and twenty seven minutes, to be exact).  Any movie that is under 1 hour and  15 minutes  hours is too short and usually in those movies, there is not enough rising action.  In movies that are longer than 1½ hours, the plot usually drags on and the audience gets bored.  This movie was the right length. It had enough rising action, and it was just short enough that it did not get boring near the end for the audience.

 The special effects in this movie were fantastic.  They were especially good in the scene where Fletcher was chasing a taxiing airplane about to take off.  He hijacks a set of mobile stairs.
and uses it to attempt to stop the plane from taking off.

 Liar Liar is appropriately rated, PG-13, because of inappropriate language.  The abundance of cursing was the only problem with the movie.  Every other aspect of the movie was spectacular, such as the actors, the plot, and the humor.  There are some hilarious lines in the movie, such as when Fletcher yells, "it was me!" after he farted in an elevator full of people.  The movie also includes several messages that can apply to people of all ages.  The two most important messages were a) don't lie and b) family comes before work.  When Fletcher lies to his son, it damages their relationship.  He lies to him when he promises to be at Max's birthday but he never shows up.  This also shows that family comes before work.  Since Fletcher put his work before his son, his relationship with his son suffered.  Overall, Liar Liar is a great movie and I strongly suggest it to anyone who is 13 or older and is looking for a movie that will make them laugh.