Note: This review is for the Night Of The Zombies DVD released by Cydonia Pictures.

For those who know the history, Night Of The Zombies is one of the many names for Hell Of The Living Dead.  The transfer for this DVD appears to be the same master tape used by Vestron Home Video in 1985 and Creature Features in 1996.  Both versions has tape creases in the same spots during the opening credits.  And, for those who have seen the 10,000th generation copy version of Vestron's release (I have not personally seen Creature Feature's version on tape.) it is so dark you really cannot see what is going on during a scene!  This transfer is, for sure, Creature Feature's release because the end copyrights state: "Copyright 1996 Creature Features."  As stated, get the Hell Of The Living Dead DVD from Anchor Bay.  That one has the exact same cut, with the different titles, plus an untruncated closing credits sequence, BUT most importantly, an original vault film print was used.  It was cleaned up and letterboxed.  FAR superior to this one... which, somehow, is even DARKER!  The color even fades in and out almost as if Macrovision was detected during the transfer!

I got this DVD because I'm a Night Of The Zombies completist.  And, even at that, I can't recommend this DVD over Hell, because for the same price or less, you can get the better DVD.  This DVD does have a few extras not on the Hell DVD, but, they are not worth the price of admission: a TV trailer, which consists of the exact same text used in Dawn Of The Dead advertising, 3 "newspaper ads," even though they're the same ad just edited down and truncated, and a stills gallery which has some pictures not in Hell's gallery, including unused scenes or shots entirely for publicity modeled after existing scenes.  There are also two trailers for The Gates Of Hell, interestingly also released by Creature Features in 1996 with Night Of The Zombies, but, one of them is just a shorter version of the other.

All in all, not even this Night Of The Zombies completist can recommend this DVD transfer.  It's worse than the Vestron VHS; I could make a better one with my VCR and a DVR!  The extras just aren't worth enough to own it and Hell Of The Living Dead.

Lastly, just to address the other question I had had over this DVD.  Yes, this is the Night Of The Zombies directed by Bruno Mattei (As Vincent Dawn.) and not the one starring Jamie Gillis.  So, for anyone else wondering, the front cover art is correct, despite some sites that have listed this exact same DVD as the Jamie Gilis release.  (BTW, interestingly enough, the text on the back cover of this DVD release is exactly the same text used on the Vestron VHS home video release!)