(This review covers both the First and the Second Generation.)

When this series was first broadcast by BBC Television over 26 Sunday nights in 1967, before the days of videotapes, people would turn down dinner invitations on the nights it was shown, and clergymen would alter the times of their services.  I wondered how this enthralling series would stand up some 40 years later.  I need not have worried:  I was as hooked now as I was then.  It is true that some of the minor characters are caricatures, but all the major ones are absolutely brilliant and fully rounded, and one becomes very much involved with them.  Some splendid characters die relatively early in the series:  Old Jolyon (Jospeh O'Conor) and Young Jolyon (Kenneth More);  but others are with us throughout the 16 instalments, notably Soames Forsyte, the crusty, old fashioned and materialist character, so much the son of his father James (John Welsh). We see him ageing convincingly over the span of 47 years; we dislike him for his crass behaviour and are appalled by his marital rape of Irene (Nyree Dawn Porter) in the early episodes, but we also pity him for his aridity (at that time nobody loves him except his sister Winifred, played by Margaret Tyzack), and later we warm to him for his integrity and for the inarticulate love he shows to his daughter Fleur (Susan Hampshire).  Hers, too, is a brilliant performance.  She steals evey scene in which she appears (somewhat masking the flagging pace of some of the later episodes), and she has us veering from being charmed by her quicksilvery nature to being appalled by her selfishness and irresponsibility.  We can understand why Jon (Martin Jarvis) and her decent husband Michael Mont (Nicholas Pennell) are so captivated by her, and we suffer with them because of her wayward nature.

All this is played out against the changing social background as we move from 1879, the age of Gladstone and Disraeli, to the period of the General Strike of 1926.  Perhaps the weakest part in the series are the actual portrayals of the working class; while one of its strong aspects is the meticulous attention given to the Victorian and Edwardian interiors. Galsworthy was interested in the challenge that modern architecture and modern painting represented to that world;  and the series, in black and white, is also a visual treat.

The Forsytes are a very large and complicated family.  The books on which the series is based have a family tree with which one can remind oneself of the relationships between the members of the younger generation. They are sometimes hard to remember; but that it doesn't really matter very much is another tribute to this quite outstanding series.