Utterly brilliant, insightful, poignant and astounding! Although it hasn't been the full season yet, the first 13 episodes and the outpouring of support on I-Tunes with the show's songs have proven that "Glee" is a force to be reckoned with. Created by Ryan Murphy (Nip/Tuck), the show follows the William McKinney HS club led by Will Schuester (Matthew Morrison)who finds something special and wonderful in each of the Glee members. Sue Sylvester (Jane Lynch) is head of the school's cheerleading team and part co-sponsor who hilariously never ceases to scheme to take out the Glee club. Emma Pillsbury (Jayma Mays), the "doe-eyed neat freak", is the school's counselor who finds herself becoming closer to the club than expected. Jessalyn Gilsig (who portrays Will's wife, Terri), is supportive of her husband's decision to take over Glee but becomes selfish in her hopes to start a family. Rachel Berry (Lea Michele) displays her abilities as a diva and proves that she is confident in her talents and goals. Finn Hudson (Cory Monteith) reluctantly joins the club and ends up having to make a decision between Glee and football. Mercedes Jones (Amber Riley) is proud of having an independent spirit and her vocals are out of this world. Kurt Hummel (Chris Colfer) struggles to admit his sexual orientation but his passion for the music is inspiring after he joins the football team and teaches them a thing or two about dancing. Noah Puckerman (Mark Salling) is Finn's best friend who at first, dislikes the club for it's flamboyancy, but has a change of heart for a very different reason. Quinn Fabray (Dianna Agron) is the all-American cheerleader who is head of the celibacy club and joins Glee to assist Sue in taking the club down. Tina Cohen-Chang (Jenna Ushkowitz) is another fellow Glee-ster who wears Gothic clothes regularly and has a speech impediment who becomes a worthy adversary for Rachel. Artie Abrams (Kevin McHale) is a handicapped student who reaches out to the club in proving that his disability hasn't limited him in being an outstanding guitar player and singer. There were so many moments that were so touching, funny and all-around joyous that it's hard to completely mention. From laugh-out-loud musical numbers of Salt-N-Pepa's "Push It" to the momentous hit of Journey's "Don't Stop Believin'", the tie-in soundtrack is a MUST for any die-hard fan of the show! The ultimate breakout smash of the '09-'10 TV season, "Glee" is THE show you don't want to miss.