I watched this movie when it first came out and remembered thinking it was good.  I saw part of it on TV last weekend and then decided to rent it.  I found it to be very powerful and thought both Gere and Lane really nailed their parts.  But, I came away vaguely unsatisfied by the result.  After thinking about it, I realized the problem was that Lynn made two movies.  The first half is a very good movie about an affair and its impact on the women who is involved and her husband.  The second half is a mostly bad movie about a murder and its aftermath.  Unfortunately, Lynn stopped the first movie in the middle to make the second movie. If he'd continued, we would have been able to follow the aftermath of the affair to its conclusion.  Connie would have been forced to try to tearfully beat back Paul's attempts to reignite the affair.  She would have been depressed for some period about the end of the liason.  Lynn could have found some plot device to permit Edward to get into Paul's apartment without revealing his identity so he could see the outline of Connie's body on the sheets, retrive the knicknak Connie gave as a gift and heard Connie's tearful goodbye phone message which confirmed just how deeply she had fallen in love.  As Connie came out of her fog, she would have tried to reconnect with Edward and found him curiously reticent.  She would eventually have come across the knicknak and photos, realized that he was aware of the affair and discovered that he was incredibly hurt and angry.  To save her marriage, she would have had to find some way to salve his wounds.  Otherwise, she would end up with a divorce she never intended.  At some point, we would have been able to hear Edward's angry tirade without the confession of murder.  We would also have heard Connie's apology/explanation/acknowlegement of the pain she caused Edward with some sort of retrospective from her on what she thought about it all.  This would have been a good movie.  Given how well Lane and Gere were handling their roles, it might have been a really good movie.
 Instead, what we got was Gere killing Paul.  He hardly seems culpable since he is portrayed as being in a vodka and grief induced fog and clearly never intended murder.  He then spends the rest of the movie apologizing to his wife, either implicitly or explicitly, for killing her lover.  This is frankly what is so unsatifying.  The first half of the movie clearly portrays Connie having created the mess.  If somebody was going to suffer consequences, I, and I suspect I was not alone, wanted it to be her.  I wanted her to tell us what she thought about the affair once all of its consequences became apparent.  I never got to hear that.  In the end, she is forgiving Edward.  I wanted the question at the end to be whether Edward would forgive her, since if there forgiving to be done, it seemed to me that was the proper direction.  I was simply not able to engage in the final dilemma.  The whole tone of the movie was that Paul's death was not really Edward's fault. I had no interest in seeing him arrested.  In short, Lynn seemed to allow what should have been a really good extramarital affair morality tale get hijacked by his fealty to the plot of the French original.  Its too bad.  He could have made an excellent movie.