When I first went to see this movie in theatres, I went with shades of The Usual Suspects in my mind, but knowing that there was no way any film could totally live up to that master piece of a film. Well Christopher McQuarrie's The Way of the Gun gave it a shot, and yes, while not living up to Suspects, it still was a damn good film. In a nutshell, it tells the tale of Parker and Longbaugh (Ryan Phillippe and Benicio Del Toro) and a kidnapping caper gone wrong. Along the way they meet a colorful cast of characters including the kidnapped woman's (Juliette Lewis) pair of bodyguards (Nicky Katt and Taye Diggs), an aging Mafia bagman (James Cann), and quite a few more. Now while the story gets a bit confusing and even lacks a little at time, the real center piece of this movie are the clever, gritty, exceptional, etc. performances delivered by Del Toro and Cann (Phillippe is good to) and the wild action sequences, which in my opinion do not try to mimic the style of John Woo, and have a cool style all their own.  And remember the characters in this film were purposely made to be SOB's that the watcher doesn't like. Their all scumbags and that makes it all the better. All in all good film. And thankfully, the DVD does the theatrical release justice on the small screen. Picture wise, the film has been given a quality transfer to the DVD format and is presented in anamorphic widescreen which is always a plus.  However, on the edges of the left and right side of the screen is a thin, dark bar that slightly decolorizes the image at the very edge of the screen. Now this film was shot with a filter over the lens and I believe that the lines may be intentional, but who knows, maybe it's just my TV. Other then that the picture is great and the Dolby 5.1 sound presentation is awesome. Watching the shoot out near the end of the movie is amazing; hearing shots coming from every single direction with the loudness of an actual gunshot and not the muffled down gun shot sound effects you hear in some movies is great and the screams of whatever character happens to be screaming or yelling just makes you wince, no matter how loud or soft it may be (be sure to watch out for what i like to call the "crotch shot" delieverd by Phillippe's shotgun to a bagman). This DVD isn't exactly packed with special features, but it does give you the theatrical trailer and a few TV spots, all of which are pretty entertaining. Also, you're treated to the usual behind the scenes featurette and some short cast and crew interviews, and the typical cast and crew filmographies. Lastly, there is a script and story board of a deleted sequence, and while a bit awkward to navigate through, is very entertaining because reading McQuarrie's script for this really lets you know how much he likes to make fun of today's film industry, and all in all the scene is pretty entertaining and wild. To think, Christopher Walken could have been in this movie!  So in the end, The Way of the Gun is a great, black comedy, action packed, twist and turn filled directorial debut from Suspects penner McQuarrie, and is brought home on a nicely packaged and presented DVD. A taste of things to come...hopefully.