Well recently I had the opportunity of watching BBC's David Copperfield miniseries in its ENTIRETY, for FREE! Thank you Masterpiece Online - that way I didn't have to pay for it. Produced in 1999, this is one of the more famous versions. They had a big budget, which allowed for detail in costume and sets, and a roomy time slot, meaning more scenes. It generally meets with ecstatic reviews about the cast and accuracy to the book. Overall, however, it didn't quite meet my expectations in that I, on the contrary, found it dull and slightly "off".

  Though the production is quite accurate, it's adherence to the book plot means a one-dimensional,  literal interpretation of the storyline, lacking in much of the nuances of Dickens' original story.  When the producers did use artistic license with the scenes the changes often seemed out of character, and created different dynamics between certain characters. Take David's proposal to Dora. He would not yank Jip away from Dora! Agnes would never even hint at marrying Uriah (whose ending changes so he is sent to Australia, along with the Micawbers, who went there to escape him...weird choice). Also, the incorporation of famous English actors into minor roles meant the sacrifice of more important characters, like Tommy Traddles. Traddles is necessary as foil to both Steerforth and Uriah Heep. They had Janet and Mrs. Crupp, why not skip them and keep Traddles?

  Acting ability was mixed, I found.  Peggotty was brilliant and perfect, I'm glad the producers realized she is supposed to be young.  Maggie Smith gave a winning performance as Aunt Betsey, and both Murdstones as well as Mrs. Steerforth and Rosa Dartle were chilling villains to contend with.  But Bob Hoskins played a rather serious, uninspired Micawber (though his interactions with Imelda Staunton were actually quite funny); Mr. Wickfield seemed reduced to a spluttering, Shakespearean caricature; and Nicholas Lyndhurst failed to  capture the essence of the book's villain - with Uriah Heep, there's supposed to be a big contrast, he's really fawning and obliging through the first part, then at the climax he snaps and becomes vicious and insulting.  Lyndhurst's villainy extends to shooting the evil-eye at everyone present.  Cieran McMenamin was a horrible choice for the adult David Copperfield; David is supposed to bright and optimistic, if a little "blind" sometimes. McMenamin did not pull this off. He had ONE flat cadence he used to express excitement, love, hate, or sadness. He had two expressions, confused or impatient, which often made him seem very selfish, especially in his behavior toward Dora.  His chemistry with Agnes was nonexistent.  I once heard Amanda Ryan's Agnes described as soppy, which is an accurate term - she is far to matronly for the part.

  There were some lovely scenes (the storm was maintained and very moving), some funny instances, and some great acting.  But there was also a sacrifice of the important themes from the novel for the sake of "accuracy".  And even the accuracy was not that great as there are other, longer productions from 1974 and 1986 that better represent the book.  If you are simply dying to see what everyone's talking about perhaps you should rent this film.  But I have a feeling you will leave with little appreciation of Dickens' original tale.