I think Ebert said it best in his review..."Is this a great movie? Not at all. Is it more or less consistently entertaining? Yes."

What makes this an interesting film is not its predeliction for sticking to formulaic devices.  That is the reason many critics panned the film.  They failed to look past the originality factor and just sit back and enjoy a well crafted and acted movie.  This film was designed with style and fun, that you are sucked into Johnny's pool playing.

Let me start by saying Mars Callahan reminded me a lot of John Cusack in this film.  And that's not a bad thing.  He mixes confidence with style and ends up at times to be pulling a Vince Vaughn (ala the scene where he pulls the waiter aside, "Excuse me, handsome, you got anything else in this joint besides champagne?").  He has four lackeys who idolize him who often add humorous conversations to the movie.

When Johnny is having fun, the viewer is having fun.  A notable difference from Rounders is the girl isnt nearly as annoying.  Where I felt I needed to shoot her in Rounders, here she is more tolerant of the main character.

Walken brings a nice touch to the film, but he could have been used a bit more.  His relationship with Johnny is barely touched upon, but more or less implied by what he ends up doing for him.  A little more development in that respect would have been nice.  We get a more defined relationship between Joe and Johnny earlier in the film, therefore by the time the end of the film rolls around, one would have liked to see how Johnny went from one mentor to another, so to speak.  Walken doesn't need to tell Johnny how to play or where to play, but he just shows up more for convenience than anything.

Even Johnny's brother, Danny, goes from rational to irrational, just from a game of pool.  It takes a couple of scenes to show how much the game can alter someone's future.

Despite sticking to formula, and injecting some trickery with rhetoric, the film was highly enjoyable.  Some will label it Swingers meets Rounders meets Gone in 60 Seconds, but whatever the comparisons, Poolhall Junkies is a film worthy of its own merit.  I mean, how many times have you seen a movie take recycled material and actually make it worth watching?  Poolhall Junkies does in a big way.