I can't for the life of me, figure out why people hated this event as much as they did. Now don't get me wrong, this event wasn't exactly a stellar one either, but it was FAR better then people give it credit for.

Dawn Marie v. Torrie Wilson- absolutely terrible. Except Dawn Marie's full moon. 1/10

Tag Team championship

Haas/Rico v. Gunn/Holly- um, entertaining.. wrestling lacked a bit in this one but it was entertaining so I can't completely knock it. 4/10

Mordecai v. Scotty 2 Hotty- Mordecai is SO green. That and the kid has stage fright like you wouldn't believe. nothing to get excited about. 3/10

RVD and Rey Mysterio v. The Dudley Boyz- Expected a little better from these guys, but overall it wasn't too too bad. Crowd just seemed really out of it for some reason in this match. 5/10

WWE CRUSERWEIGHT CHAMPIONSHIP

Jaqueline (c) v. Chavo Guererro (arm tied behind his back)- Every now and then WWE creative has a brain fart and does something for now aparent reason. Jaqueline winning the cruserweight crown was one of them. Chavo was a great champ and had it completely soiled by this and then his father winning weeks later. The Division was really hurt by this.. Chavo wins thank god, but the division lost. 4/10

United States Championship

John Cena (c) v. Renee Dupree- By far the match of the night up to this point. BUT, these two just don't have great chemistry. Dupree is loaded with talent, but he's still 21 years old and VERY VERY green. He just seems stiff. A good match by both although these two could probobly be capable of better. 6.5/10

Booker T v. The Undertaker- good match. Lasted a little longer then it needed to, but a good match nonetheless. They really didn't develop this feud enough to make it interesting. I thought this match was solid from start to finish really. 7/10

WWE Championship

Eddie Guererro (c) v. John Bradshaw Layfield- BY FAR the match of the night. Now i'm not big on Bradshaw, but being a month into his title reign at the time i'm writing this review, he really knows how to work within himself and make his matches entertaining. The match is just an all out brawl from start to finish and the blood coming from eddie is incredible. He's cut so bad! They really told a great story and set up the rest of their feud quite well here. The crowd was really into it too. If someone tells you this match sucked, they didn't watch it, it was good no matter how much i can't stand bradshaw... 8.5/10

Overall this ppv is a sure fire rental, but I'd hesitate to buy it. The WWE Championship match was by far the match of the night, althought there are some decent shows earlier in the production... Like I said, this is a decent rental.