This was movie was hilarious. I saw it during Comic Con of 2009 during the Ninja Turtles Shell-ebration for their 25 year anniversary. I managed to get tickets to the Turtles Forever movie and it was worth running 7 blocks and 4 flights of stairs to get there on time. It was funny, it was witty, it both teased itself as well as gave us fans exactly what we love about the turtles. Homage was paid to the old 80's toon turtles, the more recent 2k3 toon turtles, even the live action movies as well as the original comics were paid respect in this movie.

At the time, 4Kids Entertainment still held the rights and so they wanted to end everything with a bang, and they succeeded. They did everything right in this movie. I will admit, that at first, when it first began, my head tilted to the side because I didn't know what to think; but as realization hit and then the brilliance unfolded, I laughed and quickly fell in love with the entire movie. The group of friends I had gone with to the Con stayed up with me till well past 3 in the morning and we were still talking about it.

Humor, clever plot, and just honest in your face turtle moments that span the last 25 years, it was brilliant. Absolutely brilliantly done with enough wit to entertain adults, humor for the children, and turtle fans of all ages and eras will embrace and treasure.

Spoilers:
The Movie is spoof, an Alternate Universe of sorts where the 2k3 toon turtles run into their counterparts from the 80's toon. While they try and figure out how to send them back to their world, they discover that the 2k3 Shredder has returned from his exile and has accidently fallen through the time warp into the 80's toon and quickly takes control - even while the 80's toon Shredder and Krang try valiantly (and fail spectacularly) to become part of his evil plans. 2k3 Shredder realizes to rid himself of the turtles, he has to kill the ORIGINAL turtles in their original universe - and in a fight for survival, the turtles from both universes unite to save both themselves and other worlds.

But seriously folks, as dumb as that might sound, it was so brilliantly executed, its well worth it! :D

~Melissa the Damgel