I don't remember much about this movie.  I just remember back in 1997 I saw it on opening night.  By the time the ending credits rolled, I walked out of the theater feeling horribly, horribly used.  I felt cheap.  I had allowed myself to be used as a pawn in a cynical, cash-making Hollywood scheme.  I was ashamed of myself.
First of all, Governor Schwarzenegger (aka:  "Der Gropenfuhrer") did not deserve top-billing for this piece of garbage.  The frickin' movie is entitled "BATMAN &amp; ROBIN"!  Arnold doesn't play EITHER of those characters!  What the (*@#&amp;$(*@#*$!^????
Secondly, George Clooney needed the cash.  Period.  He was an up-and-coming star at the time.  He was still "Mr. ER" from TV.  After chastising the media for its alleged role in Princess Diana's death (and conveniently stealing that week's headlines), Georgie-Porgie-Pudding-and-Pie needed some cash and some publicity and he got it.  Wa-hoo, George.  Fortunately, he later hooked up with Steven Soderbergh and turned away from poo-poo platter like this movie.
Third:  Chris O'Donnell.  UGH!  I am ashamed that I share a common Irish heritage with this pud!  BLEH!
Fourth:  Alicia Silverstone was in this movie?  Wow!  Remember when she was going to be the next Julia Roberts?  Whatever happened to her?  Was she on "The E! True Hollywood Story" recently?
Fifth:  Uma Thurman.  I like Uma.  The green eyelashes don't do her justice.  Let's just forget she was ever in this movie.  It never happened.
And, last--but not least:  BANE.  Truly the most horrifying screen villain since Gary Coleman.  Why is he called "Bane"?  Well, you see...he's the...BANE....of society.  Get it?  Bane?  Of society?  I can see you're shaking in your boots.  Please stop now.
Anyway, the bad guys try to take over Gotham City and the good guys (Batman &amp; Robin) are out to stop them.  Throw in the usual "Will Bruce Wayne reveal his true identity?" plotline and blah blah blah blah blah.  You can see why they never made another "Batman" movie.  This one effectively killed the franchise.  Praise the Lord!