Fascinating presentation of the wine industry.
One way, new technique, as oxygenation, give a ready to drink product, enhance by taste of vanilla graciously provided by new oak barrel, represented by Michel Rolland.
Another way, traditionally respectful of the terroir and grape, represented by De Montille doter and father, which accept the nature and her variations which need much longer "elevage"  (aging) in cave to reach excellence.

After all this debate, it is interesting to note than Guigal, the great Rhone winery, did not produce Côtes-du-Rhônes 2008 as the year was not permitted to achieve his quality expectation.
I also reed in Decanter report than 2007 was a mediocre year in Bordeaux. Did the Chateau should not produce any Appellation to respect their client and sale their mediocre wine under generic Bordeaux label?

Under all this debate of respect of tradition opposed to respond to the demand of consumer.
Which consumer are able to accept than a Medoc should not be drink before 10 or 15 years of cellaring?
Producers know that. Media's will not tell you as ... their come the money, big money.

Today media report on reader - advertiser team. Reader wants to read a dream story.
It's not any more question of taste, only question of investment.
Big families are opposed to poor farmer which could never expect produce wine in another planet.
Some people protecting their land from developer to create or protect Environmental Park opposed to powerful money conglomerate which want to create more opportunities for their dreamer client.

This fine tune movie exposes us to various aspect and choice.
Did we want to pay the price and respect the nature?
Did we prefer buy ready to drink? "Why pay more"

Consumer like vanilla, industry will produce vanilla.
Vanilla is too rare and too expensive.
Who care? Industry will produce new way to make product taste vanilla without paying for vanilla or better, without vanilla. Media's will describe as "another layer of complexity with buttery..."

Medoc's, Californian Cabernet, Meursault... needs 10 or 15 years to be at their best.
Industry will find new way to make it ready in 2 years.
A smart move as these 2 years will give time to various Media to make many report, to sale plenty of advertising, industry will make a lot of pre-release tasting... and  increase the value of the product.

Thanks to all the participants and to Jonathan Nossiter for having exposed our choice.