Having lived in Uganda, on-and-off, for over 5 years, I was under the (false) impression that Idi Amin was simply another ruthless African military dictator.  Open and shut.  Did Amin govern Uganda with an iron fist?  Without a doubt.  Were over 300,000 Ugandans murdered during his presidency?  It's a historical fact.  Was Amin an uneducated, eccentric baffoon?  By western standards, yes.  However, as you'll be able to observe from this documentary, Amin was very popular throughout black Africa, especially in Uganda.  I have spoken with Ugandans whose parents were slaughtered by Amin that still think he was a "great leader of Uganda."  When Amin died in 2003, there was a massive popular outcry for him to be given a state funeral in Kampala.  How is this possible?

When Amin came to power in 1971, he was the darling of the British government, who described him as a "splendid type."  Shortly thereafter, Amin provided a state funeral for the popular and exiled Bugandan king Mutesa.  Also, he freed numerous political prisoners who had been wrongfully detained by Milton Obote's regime.  He was famous for throwing lavish parties, and personally entertaining guests from all parts of the world.  In the begining, Amin was committed to democratic government and free elections.  At various points during his administration, he had the financial and military backing of the UK, USA, Israel and Saudi Arabia.  Admittedly, Amin was a soilder and not a politician.

While Amin was a murderous African dictator, was he any worse than his contemporaries or his successors in black Africa?  Certainly, Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire and Daniel arap Moi of Kenya have comparable "amounts" of blood on their hands.  As cold blooded as this may sound, in the geo-political context of sub-Saharan Africa, Amin's biggest fault was his inability to cover his tracks.

At issue, this documentary is a must see for any serious student of Ugandan history and current affairs.  Moreover, it provides a visual medium to observe the many layers of a megalomaniac.