There have been many great prison movies over the years that have been made. "Shawshank Redemption" and "Cool Hand Luke" are two that come to mind right off the top of my head. But without a doubt I feel the best of all the prison movies ever made is "Papillon". Based on the autobiography of Henri Charriere, aka Papillon (french for butterfly) for the butterfly tatoo he had on his chest, it stars Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman. McQueen had a brillient career with many fine movies to his credits but "Papillon" is I think the best of the best he ever made. This movie also rates among the best films that Dustin Hoffman ever made as well. In a nutshell the movie is about Charriere, a Frenchman, who is a safe cracker who is falsely arrested and convicted of murder. He is sent to serve his sentence at the penal colony in French Guiana. On the boat taking the prisoners to the penal colony Papillon meets Dega played by Hoffman who was convicted of counterfeiting French bonds. Dega is a marked man. The prisoners know he is carrying on him a large amount of cash and they would kill Dega at the first chance they had to get at the money. Papillon works out a deal with Dega to protect him til they get to French Guiana. Once there Dega will under write any attempt Papillon makes to break out of prison. In real life Henri Cherriere attempted 7 or 8 times to escape from the prison. His last attempt at escape was from Devil's Island. He was the first, and I believe the only person, to successfully escape from the island and would go on the live the rest of his life as a free man. The movie due to time constrants only show three of those escape attempts, including the final escape from Devil's Island. What makes this movie the best amoung prison movies is the real life grittiness of prison life. There are points where faint of heart may not be able to watch certain scenes of the movie. But it is the realisticness of prison life there at French Guiana that makes this such a great movie. The harsh starkness of punishment and living conditions the men have to endur leaves you wondering how anyone could survive. Prison life in "Shawshank Redemption" looks delightful in comparison. If I had to come up with a top 5 list of my favorite movies this would be in that list. I highly recommend it.