My Mom wanted this for her birthday.  I had never heard of it before but Mom said it was a great show and she was right!  There is just something funny about it when you take a suburban housewife and pair her with one of the Agency's top agents.  I think the funniest part about this show is how Amanda (the housewife) continually manages to not only get Lee (the agent) into trouble but out of it as well.  Of course, he really doesn't need any help getting into trouble but you can be sure something will go wrong the moment you add Amanda into the equation.  I have yet to go through and count all the times she saves his life but I'm sure the number would be high.  Billy (Lee, and eventually Amanda's, supervisor) provides a nice support to the two stars with his sense of humor and enjoyment at pairing Amanda and Lee together for case after case.  Lee used to be a loner after his partner took a bullet in the head for him, but not after Billy met Amanda who is probably the only one who could put up with Lee.  Lee doesn't like the fact he is paired with a civilian, at least in the beginning.  However, just as Amanda manages to grow on the audience, she also manages to grow on Lee and the others with whom she has contact at the Agency.  Lee of course doesn't admit, at least to Amanda, how much he cares for her which adds an interesting twist to the story as he tries to hide his jealousy and affection.  And of course, no one can know that Amanda works for the Agency.  Add in the fact that Amanda has two little boys, is divorced, and her mother lives with her and it makes for a quite an adventure.  As Amanda gets called away on cases, the stories to explain her coming and going get to be more and more hilarious.  Her mother's suspicions of what she is up to also seem to hit the ceiling, the most prominent being that Amanda is having an affair.  All in all, a delightful show perfect for families.  We have already bought season 2 and will probably get seasons 3 and 4 as soon as they come out.