Not that I'm a believer in the realm of the dead.  But I do enjoy watching the "realistic" possibilities of a paranormal event.  There is nothing that screams "GHOSTS" more than the old haunted house with spirits of the dead ingredient.  Unfortunately, too many new horror films jump into the realm of monsters rather than stick with the basic ingredient containing the spirits of dead people.  The latter gives me a more realistic feel.  I know monsters won't come through my walls, but spirits of dead people?  Well, not that I believe, but it's still way creepier since you can walk around your own house wondering about its history and who has died in it.  This movie is finally a new movie, which sticks to the "real" haunted house feel.  Sounds of footsteps, rocking chairs, dolls that seems to come to life, spooky spirits of once living people, graves, and a very old large empty house... all good ingredients.  They left Godzilla and Freddy Krueger out, which is a good thing.  Not since the Exorcist played with people's "realistic" religious images of the devil did I find a movie sticking to a person's true expectation of what is scary not only on the screen, but also off screen.  The fear jumps off the screen into your room because it sticks with the same things you would expect to see and hear should you believe your own house was haunted.  I loved it.  But it does come down to what you personally find scary: (1) A film that sticks with what you would expect if you "realistically" thought your house was haunted or (2) a film with gore, blood, and more monstrous creations.  Those expecting the latter would be disappointed, while the former would probably enjoy this.

By the way, in that reference to the Exorcist, just to clarify things, I am not comparing the two.  Nothing will probably ever compare to the original Exorcist.  I only bring it up to indicate that at least this movie is a step in the right direction to keep "haunting" movies in the realm of the spirits and paranormal (like the Exoricist) rather than always jumping into the commission of "unrealistic" monsters.