Yes, this movie is a total chick flick and I wouldn't say this movie should win an academy award, but that doesn't mean it isn't any good as others who reviewed this movie have suggested. "Prime" is a wonderfully refreshing romance with a different ending then one might think!

Uma Thurman plays the role of the 37 year old recently divorced woman whom begins dating Meryl Streep's 23 year old son in "Prime". Streep's character just so happens to also be the psychotherapist to Thurman's character. Thurman's character falls hard for Streep's son in the movie but has a difficult accepting the 14 year age difference. The movie focuses on the relationship between Thruman's character and that of her new love.

The movie also deals with the issue of both Streep's and Thurman's characters not know that Thurman is actually dating Streep's son in the movie for quite some time. So, here Thurman's character unknowingly divulges intimate details about her new  relationship with the mother of her new boyfriend who happens to be her psychotherapist! Steep's character finds out that Thurman is dating her son 5 weeks before Thurman's character does, but decides to keep this information to herself until she can no longer handle hearing the intimate details and severs Thurman's character as her client.

I also thought the acting was great!! Both Uma Thurman & Meryl Streep gave great performances in "Prime" and am not sure why others have dogged Ms. Streep's acting abilities in this film. Meryl Streep does a wonderful job playing the psychotherapist, who has problems of her own. Streep's character has a difficult time with accepting her 23 year old son dating a 37 year old divorcee who is not Jewish and just so happens to be one of her clients. Meryl Streep's character seems more accepting of her patients behavior than that of her own son's. She doesn't want her son to choose being an artist as a career option. In the movie Streep's character finally comes to terms with the relationship and her son's choice to be come an artist! So, "Prime" is a feel good movie in that regard. I won't divulge the ending.