I caught this one at the local art-house theater, and really loved it. The mixed reviews here don't surprise me that much, because it is a film that is hard to get a handle on.

A couple of warnings:
The greater portion of the film is a touching, if prosaic, indie film about grieving and loss. However, all prosaicness is blown to hell with the introduction of the character Hesher, who is as about as crude and chaotic as they come. So a suburban tragedy-and-renewal storyline is punctuated by vicious stabs of stoner comedy. The odd thing is that the director and actors make it work.  It is a fair trick, if you can wrap your head around it. Just be prepared to swing between extremes in a movie that defies any easy categorization.

The second warning is that the character Hesher is crude, foul-mouthed, and blatantly offensive. If you're readily offended by gratuitous swearing, dirty talk, or dirty jokes, this character will readily offend you.

What I liked about it:
I grew up with heshers. In Southern California it's the name of a certain kind of suburban heavy metal fan, typically a stoner who listened to the harder, more violent end of the metal spectrum like Metallica, Megadeth, and Motorhead. For me, naming the character "Hesher" was like naming the captain of the football team "Jock." On the other hand, I know exactly the kind of person Hesher was modeled upon, and Gordon-Levitt nailed it. The speech, the body-language, the sense of humor, all perfectly rendered. It is a slice of life I never expected to be so lovingly and accurately depicted on film. Usually heshers are portrayed as buffoons, like the main characters of Wayne's World. Here, all the darkness and menace, as well as the humor and bonhomie, are included.

The film never looses its heart, despite callous and chaotic assaults of Hesher on the main storyline. Likewise, Hesher never looses his edge, despite the underlying sweetness of the film as a whole. From reading the other reviews, it seems that this might be too much of an internal contradiction for some. I found it a very compelling success.

The script is impressively tight and well written, and the acting is wonderfully natural. The setting is Sothern California stripped of all its glamor and pretense. It is aging tract homes and strip malls, congested boulevards and construction sites. It addresses a level of dingy suburban reality that rarely seems to make it onto film. Because this was the texture of my childhood, I loved it.

Just expect a different kind of cinema with this one, a true indie, art-house experience, and I think you'll get what this gem of a film has to offer.