Was it the poet John Keats who said something like in"truth there is beauty". Well, "An American Werewolf inLondon" shows what truly is scary, and in many ways that truth is so realistic, horrifying and downright macabre that there is a sense of complex beauty portrayed.  Director John Landis is extremely underrated, and this film is perhaps the most overlooked bit of genius I've ever watched. The one seen which will probably scare the hell out of you is when there is a dream sequence of running through the woods and you see a hospital bed. I won't tell you what happens but the fear that is evoked in that seen overwhelms anything ever shown. Remember in "Jaws" when Richard Dreyfuss goes underwater to search the wrecked hull of a ship and the dead body of a man suddenly appears out of nowhere? For me, that scene pales in comparison to "Werewolf's" frights.  As I said, I think Landis really thought hard about what would frighten someone and he put it into this film. For instance the flashback to David Naughton's family in America is interrupted with a hellish sound of incessant, nonstop banging coming from the front door. When the father answers it, lo and behold, but a group of Werewolves dressed up as Nazis begins stabbing everything in sight. Another, revolutionary scare tactic is the sound interruptions used when the werewolf prowls the streets (after his awesome "beautifully realistic" tranformation). Right when you think the wolf is going to jump out and rip someone to pieces, Landis cuts to a "horrifying" scene and sound of a train passing by, or a lion roaring in the zoo Naughton awakes in. Another important idea is the humorous "twists" added to the story. The detective who is completely inept at many things, knocks over a set of bedpans arranged like a china doll (one inside the other), as he tries to put these pans in the right order (with the doctor's watching) you think to yourself-this is so weird, why is this happening, this is funny, but is something horrible goin to happen. And thats what is terribly frightening about this movie, we never know when something greatly moving, funny or horrifying will occur. I think part of this could be paralleled to the fact that Naughton is an outsider to England. From the first scenes of those horrifying moors we hear the wonderfully eerie tune of "Blue Moon". Naughton and Dunne truly are like Samuel Clemens' "Conneticut Yankees in King Arthur's Court"-outsiders to a strange world...This is a great film. I recommend it very highly (if you haven't noticed).