I see some people are giving this movie decent reviews because they like Gillian Anderson. She is probably it's only redeeming quality. Everything about it is truly bad. The story revolves around an older woman and a younger man whose relationship is even more shallow than their character development (which is non-existent). Brutalized, traumatized, seeking revenge, that's about it. There isn't much more to say about it. I guess if you want to see Gillian Anderson take her clothes off, you might like it. But it certainly isn't worth the price of admission, although she did prove her talent regarding various forms of moaning, grunting, and screaming. She's a much better actress with her clothes on.

And what's with this "brutalized by a group of hunters" nonsense? What makes them hunters? Just because they were driving a Land Rover? How many people living in the countryside there drive Land Rovers? Every time we see the three bad guys, it's the same thing: one guy is wearing casual clothes, another one is wearing everyday street clothes and hobbling around with a cane, and the third one is wearing slacks and a jacket. None of them are ever dressed for hunting. And not only are they never shown in the act of hunting, but they are never even seen discussing it, nor are they ever seen carrying a rifle or shotgun. But for some unexplained reason, these three dweebs who always look like they just got home from another day at work are supposed to be hunters? Uh... okay, whatever. When I figure that one out, I'll get back to you.

The story jumps from scene to scene in a very choppy manner, and it ends abruptly while leaving you with the feeling that the last ten or fifteen minutes that wrapped up the story were for some reason left on the cutting room floor. Obviously, the film was made that way (with one of the central characters walking up and staring into the camera? Please, how cheesy can you get?), but the whole thing was just poorly executed and leaves the viewer hanging. It seems to be nothing more than an exercise in trauma and horror for the sake of... trauma and horror. I really can't think of any other point behind this movie.

I can't believe Gillian Anderson is actually in a movie this bad. She must be getting desperate for work since the X-Files ended.

This movie falls far short of delivering the closure it's title suggests.