I love Cinderella and I think we can all agree it is a classic and the film is really grand in it's use of animation and of course the wonderful ideas presented by Mary Blair were a huge contribution to the film. I want to deal a little bit more on the Special Features side and stir up the suits at Disney a bit.

Collecting Disney animated films is a great hobby and I have been doing this even before DVD and I own many LaserDisc box sets that Disney has released over the years and we are talking 125.99 sets! (DVDs are far cheaper I don't want to hear from readers talking about how expensive some sets are on DVD. When you pay 125.99 for a DVD set of a SINGLE film then we will talk. These sets are not even have the cost. One of the best laserdisc sets that was released in 1995 was Cinderella,  housed in a elegant looking box. Most tasteful presentation! It really was a Special Edition with bonus features that were easy to dive into. Suddenly with DVD the executives at Disney I think have went through lengths thinking they are doing the great things by doing page to page artwork gallerys that I'm sorry to say is so badly executed. What happned to the SIMPLER WAY! Do a menu breakdown of what art work we will see backgrounds concept art etc and let us go through these images to our hearts content I don't care if there are 300 in that listing so be it. It is SO much easier than taking the time to look at say 10 of them then making the buyer have to go to the next "gallery" to see the next set. let us just forward to the next piece of art and let it flow. If you are older lovers of Disney you know what I am talking about. Every special edition uses this form of artwork presentation and it really is not fun and makes many just say forget it. Especially if they own the LaserDisc sets I would rather hang on to these sets to look at all the artwork it is 300 times easier.

Adding bonus features like Princess Pajama Jam parties or whatever is I have to say really REALLY cute but lets be really honest Who came up with that? Let us stick to the film and present it with special features that don't dumb it down. Take a Criterion type of approach better yet license them to Criterion and let them release a more adult Special Edition minus idiotic song rendetions of classic songs by Disney Channel artists. Include commentary tracks by worthy people like Canemaker and let them talk to us with all technical terms and not dumb things down. Let's hear about animation techniques and history. We don't even get any great secondary audio recordings hardly ever anymore of older Disney laser sets we were even given isolated score and sound effects tracks. Those days are gone.

It is all nice and fun to be very dramatic in the making of by saying it was the studios biggest gamble but come on I've been through it so much. It is fine to include that information but lets not push it you'd think the place was gonna explode back in 1949! Mention it but move on use some class.

Plus when you release a "Gift Set" it seems to want to cater to the more older Disney fan so why are you still including big but while I admit the artwork is wonderful lets add some great text not storybooks for children. Step up with some intellgence. When one pays SO MUCH MORE for a nice Box Set make it just that. They is no way the cost warrants the bargin bin goodies we recieve. The actual cover art on these sets like Cinderella - Lion King - and Aladdin are wonderful very nice job I'm sure Little Mermaid will be nice also. It seems these box sets feature a more refined cover art look like those great laserdisc box sets of before. Let's stick to that but give the buyer some goods! The film transfers are really great i would suggest not to rip out the original RKO Distribution title cards it sort of cuts the films and takes away form the presentation. Please include the Walt Disney Pictures log but then go into the films with the RKO intros. it is the correct presentation of the laserdisc release of 1995. I rate this film 5 statrs but I have to say the Special Gift Set Edition should only rate a 3 at most cause of lack of adult oriented bonus features and while they are included they seem to be more of a bother to access.

I hope people from Disney read this and take into consideration changes that would make their bonus features more worth while and not a waste of energy and time. and please stop degrading the original classics by releasing direct to video sequels that are only made to make a buck and cheapen the original films.