I watched this movie, not knowing what to expect, i know mr.lewis always does well in any movie that he makes. he is the man of 1,000 faces, not needing any makeup, just his expressions and a man of many accents and voices. he does the american accent so well , that you forget hes british.
he has down the manners of william keane, a stricken father, whos strung out on drugs, alcohol,one night stands and paraniod moods swings, exhausted, looking for his daughter, that he feels its his fault that shes gone.
he spends his time, chasing people with newspaper clippings, asking if they seen his daughter,once, while riding a bus, he sees a purple coat , lying under a bus in a parking lot and demands to be let off, he jumps the fence and to pick up the coat and then punches the bus, then he goes into traffic and yells at passing cars, his daughters name.
at one point , in his mind, acabbie took her, he followed the man and attacked him, punching him and kicking him.
he sings alot too, especially when hes drunk or angry or scared.
he sits in hisroom, alone, reciting the names of his parents and half sibling and that he was married and divorced, had one child, agirl, nothing more is said.
at one point, it seems that he is calling his ex wife, who seems to have remarried and moved on and is avioding him perhaps, you know that he is a painter who is on disability but you dont know why and if he was ever on medication and if so, why he got off of it.
you never get to see any past life on him and you never get a good look at the newpaper article, i kept hoping for a flash back scene but there wasnt one.
at times he goes by he goes from normal,looking for work,  helping to care for a little girl whose mother he befriended when they were going to be thrown out of thier room,taking her to mcdonalds, helping her with her homework, telling her that kids who call her names arent her friends and that shes smart, not stupid, who has become his object of fixation,to the edge of sanity,  so much so that he breaks into thier room and lies in bed and holds the girls sweater,you have hope that whiles hes with her that he will be okay, but hes has an episode of paranoia that he tries to control, but cant ,the little girl is brave as roles are switched and she takes care of him.
her mother seemly abandons her daughter, keane is angry at this but, is determined to look after the girl.
when the mother returns, keane is cross but hopeful that she has broken up with the father, so that now he will have a chance to be a family man again, but instead, keane is told that she andthe father have found a house and that they are leaving, suddenly keanes world is falling apart around him, he asks to see the girl once more,but instead goes to the school and picks her up,takes her to the bus station, as hes already packed his things as well, including a dress he bought for his daughter,
he takes her to the same station and has her buy candy at the same counter, then cries that hes sorry to his daughter(?)then he goes and tellsthe little girl that hes goingto take her back to her mom at the restarant and hes crying, so she says dont cry, i love you, and he says i love you too and continues to cry. the movie ends.