I just saw this movie for the first time this afternoon, and I was hooked. Sometimes, I can get distracted and will play around on my ipod touch, or find other things to do while watching television shows or movies, but I couldn't take my eyes off of the screen with this one. From the second the movie started, to the very end, I was totally sucked in.

Billy Bob Thornton as Karl was brilliant as a mentally disabled man. I don't think he was retarded; in fact, some of his behavior reminded me of Aspergers. As he gets out of a mental hospital, after being imprisoned for nearly three decades after killing his mother and her young bed partner, he doesn't exactly want to leave. He doesn't know where to go or what to do. He meets a young, fatherless boy named Frank, played by Lucas Black, and helps him carry home laundry from the laundromat. He and this boy get attached very quickly, and after being introduced to his mother, he is invited to stay with them.

Unfortunately, a horrible man terrorizes Frank and his mother: her boyfriend Doyle, played by Dwight Yoakum. He is abusive, and threatens death if Frank's mother, Linda, leaves him. He is a drunk, who brings his untalented band of yahoos (hilariously played by talented musicians Mickey Jones, Col. Bruce Hampton, Ian Moore and Vic Chestnutt) around in the middle of the night and plays loudly, annoying the neighbors. He breaks things in Linda's house, sleeps with other women, treats Karl, Frank, and Linda's friend Vaughan like they are lower than dirt, and treats Linda even worse. (She has a battered woman complex, for sure.) So, after causing all of this turmoil and pain, when he comes around and apologizes, she just lets him right back into their lives.

After hearing Frank's thoughts that he would like to take Doyle out of the picture, Karl comes to believe that the only way to ensure Frank and his mother's safety and happiness is to kill Doyle himself. He gives all of his books to Frank, and makes him promise that he will take his mother and go to Vaughan's house that evening. He gives all of the money he made at his job to Vaughan, telling him to give it to Frank and Linda to help out, and makes him promise that he will watch over the two and be a good father to Frank. He then sharpens a lawn mower blade, goes to Linda's house, and kills Doyle with it.

It was a wonderful story that you will not stop thinking about for hours after watching it. Heck, I have been all over Amazon and IMDB reading all of the summaries and opinions about it all evening! I could not judge Karl for what he did to Doyle. While that would not have been my course of action, you could see how this is the best he could come up with. Things were black and white, and this was all he knew. He loved Frank so much that he wanted him to be happy and safe, and this is the only way he thought he could do this. Doyle was friends with the police, which put him in a position where the law was on his side. And, as anyone who has dealt with someone even half as bad as Doyle, things like restraining orders just do not work. Karl also seemed very overwhelmed with the outside world, and he really wanted to go back to the hospital where he spent most of his life. The movie ends with Karl back in the asylum, where he will likely spend the rest of his life. But at least now, his life is richer for having found Frank, and being able to give him a better shot at happiness and safety gave Karl a sense of purpose to at least somebody.