First of all I have to address absolute haters of HD DVD that spew constant nonsense as good little trained doggies for Sony corporation and other BDA partners.

This HD DVD / DVD combo is absolute marvel. The price is the same as any other HD DVD and the added benefit of having a SD DVD version to watch in your SUV, your portable player or bedrooms is a HUGE plus. I don't want to buy 5 version of the movie to watch it everywhere. Combos are good for consumer. Even Warner releases that come in combo flavor (SD DVD and HD DVD) cost the same as their inferior Blu-Ray versions. As a consumer, it is very important to say that because the PR campaigns from an inferior format will make unsuspecting customers think that there's somethign wrong with having more for the same money.

And also, this movie works perfectly on my 2 DVDs and 2 HD DVD players.. no problems whatsoever. I never actually had problems with combos too and very little people had any problems that were present were due to authoring problems or replication, but these are pretty rare anyways.

Okay, now when cleared that, I will say that The Kingdom is truly incredible. It touches up on today's situation with middle east, connections with Saudi Arabia and the slow fallout of the tight partnership since a lot of terrorist attacks originated or are linked to Saudi Arabia.

The Kingdom is about a team of FBI agents on a special mission to investigate an attack on US camp, but are faced with a whole lot of problems during their investigation. The movie extremely intense, action-packed and the performances of the actors are on par with their reputation, they do a very good job. When you are watching this movie you do feel like you are kind of watching a documentary and it will definitely make you yell "Holy Sh**" a couple of times during the movie's action sequences.

The picture quality and audio are impeccible. You really start appreciating HD DVD when you see Jamie Foxx's face up close and see every pore, every little drop of sweat on his face or when you are surrounded by flying bullets and jaw-dropping sound of explosions.

interactive features are very nice. There's an interactive timeline of American/Saudi alliance about oil, the introduction of Osama Bin laden, information about everything really connected to terrorist attacks too ranging from early 50s as far as I remember to 2003. It's great addition to the movie not to mention web enabled content as a plus to everything and engaging tour and commentaries along with deleted scenes and regular dvd stuff.

I have not seen this movie in the theater and I picked it up as a blind buy, but boy I am glad.. this is a definitely movie for your brand new HD  library.