If you ever get a chance, you should see The Producer's Cut. It is better. According to wikiedia, it's gonna get a release. But a release date has yet to be set. Halloween III is gonna be out on October of this year so I am guessing maybe around that time, it'll be out if not sometime later than that.

The only highlights for me from this film are in the title of this review. The Man In Black is revealed to be Dr. Wynn. And it's revealed he has been manipulating Michael the entire time. Tommy, who Laurie babysat in the first film, is now grown up  & has been obsessed with Myers. Wynn kidnaps Jamie and a cult impregnates her. She & her baby are pursued by Michael. She hides the baby, but is eventually killed. However, Tommy hears Jamie's plea for help on the radio, finds her baby and takes him to his home. He takes care of him and names him Steven. Tommy finds Loomis and gets him to help him out with the Michael situation. He lives in a boarding house is run by Mrs. Blankenship, a mysterious old woman. But the family living next door in Myers; house are relatives of the Strode family. Later in the film, Blankenship reveals to Kara that she babysat Michael the night he killed his sister & that Danny hears the "voice" telling him to kill just like Michael heard when she was babysitting him the night he killed Judith. This confirms that Danny is to be the next child to be influenced by The Curse Of Thorn, which he revealed to be the motive behind Michael's killings.

Tommy finds out that Michael has been cursed by The Cult Of Thorn, who impregnated Jamie and The Cult Wynn has been involved with. He is the leader of The Cult. He tells Kara that Michael was selected by a cult of people *The Cult Of Thorn) to be under the influence of an ancient rune symbol called Thorn. It was claimed by druid astronomers to be originated from a constellation of stars that appear from time to time on Halloween night. It is an ancient Druid curse that represented a demon that spread sickness and caused destruction. To prevent this, a child from each tribe was chosen to inherit the curse and would offer a blood sacrifice on Halloween night. The curse explains why Michael possesses his superhuman abilities and his immunity from death. The Curse of Thorn required the cursed one (Michael) to sacrifice his entire family to spare their community from events such as plague, drought, sickness and destruction. Michael has The Mark Of Thorn on his wrist, which can be seen a the end Halloween 4 when Jamie touches him before he's shot multiple times by the cops.

At the end, Michael's murderous ways are stopped. And Loomis screams. In the Producer's Cut, it's revealed that he scream because the curse is passed to him by a dying Wynn.

For the reveals of certain things detailed above (which is why I gave it 5 stars), it's a great film as it explores the the reason behind Michael's motive for killing. Aside from that, it's not the best entry in the franchise although The Producer's Cut is better and longer. I say watch The Producer's Cut if you can and if not, then the original to know why Michael kills. I have said why. But it's best to actually see it for yourself.