Michael Crichton's novel gets the Spielberg treatment, doing for dinosaurs what Jaws did for sharks.  Sam Neil, in his good guy persona (a la Dead Calm, not Event Horizon!), and Bruce's daughter Laura Dern (Nic Cage's wife  in David Lynch's Wild at Heart) play the husband and wife paleontologist  team invited to view a monumental advancement in amusement park technology  by billionaire oddball Richard Attenborough (Ghandi director who failed in  his Great Escape years earlier).  Jeff Goldblum (The Fly and that Pilsten  Hols /Apple advertiser) makes another canny mega-movie appearance (remember  Independence Day?) as a chaos mathematician also along for the tour.  Samuel L. Jackson is seriously wasted as a lowly computer technician - his  `action' career took off over the next three years with the triple whammy  of Pulp Fiction, Die Hard: With a Vengeance, and The Long Kiss Goodnight.  Throw in Dickie's grandkids, Bob Peck (Slipstream) as a big game hunter,  and a nerdy insurance/accountant type and you've got plenty of fodder for  the real stars of the movie - the animatronic and Silicon Graphics  generated dinosaurs!  Most full body shots are computer generated, most  body part shots are animatronic - who cares when the effects are so  gobsmacking and seamlessly integrated.
There are plenty of holes to pick  in the plot if you want to get scientific, but that's not what this film is  about.  It's a terrific rollercoaster ride of a film that all the family  (except the smallest maybe) can hold hands together to watch.  One point  that many argue is the velociraptors were only six-foot long and half the  height of humans - Spielberg obviously wanted more dramatic impetus.  Strangely enough, during filming scientists uncovered evidence of a  10-foot-tall variety, now named Utahraptors - so how's that for a bit of  Spielberg magic?
The soon to be released DVD edition is a Universal  Collector's Series (like Dragonheart, End of Days, Fast Times at Ridgemount  High, Conan the Barbarian, and many a Hitchcock classic) and Universal  rarely puts a foot wrong with these specials.  Expect a first class  transfer -especially since it's taken Spielberg long enough to approve the  release, and maybe throw in some trailers in the Universal showcase or  recommendations sections, and this should be one memorable monster movie  release!