I didn't know much about Astro Boy when I added this title to my Netflix queue. I'm a big Mega Man fan, and I knew that Astro Boy was one of the inspirations for the video game character. Another MM fan recommended this movie, so I decided to give it a try.

After reading some other reviews and some background on the character, I will say that if you go into this expecting it to slavishly adhere to the background of the character from the TV shows or manga, you're going to be disappointed.

Dr. Tenma is the head of the Ministry of Science on a futuristic floating city-state in the clouds. He has a smart boy named Toby who he doesn't spend enough time with. Tenma and his partner Dr. Elefun are testing two opposing sources of energy housed in separate cores. The blue core is constructive energy, while the red core is destructive. Toby comes to the presentation with the President against his father's wishes, and ends up getting killed by a robot powered by the red core. Tenma blames himself for Toby's death and builds Astro as a replacement. He installs the blue core in Astro as a power source.

At first Tenma thinks he can have another chance at being a good father, but he soon finds that even though he's programmed the robot boy with all of the real boy's personality and memories, Astro is a different individual and not the same as Toby. At this point, Astro thinks he is Toby, and is hurt and confused as to why he can't seem to please his father. In his guilt and grief, Tenma pushes Astro away and tells him he doesn't want him anymore. Astro leaves feeling crushed and abandoned. In the meantime, the President has discovered the blue core wasn't destroyed as the doctors told him and sends the military to capture Astro. During the ensuing fight, Astro falls over the edge and down to the surface, where he meets some of the surface dwellers the President is trying to start a war with.

The rest of the story is Astro coming to terms with the fact that he's a robot in a world where robots are seen as mindless machines to be used and thrown away, and Tenma coming to terms with the fact that even though his son is dead, he now has another son who also needs him. Eventually the military manages to capture Astro, and Tenma has to decide whether to remove the core, essentially killing Astro.

The film has some real emotional moments. I rarely cry at animated movies, but the scene where Tenma turns his back on Astro is a real tear jerker. There are some humorous moments as well. The part where one of the secondary characters produces a feather had me laughing.

The story is well paced, and I can only think of one or two scenes that I thought dragged on too long. The action scenes are exciting, and the animation and art style is well suited to the film's setting.

There are a few things I thought could have been done better.

We only have a few minutes of scene time with Toby before he gets vaporized. And I do mean vaporized. All that is left of him is his hat. It's not gruesome since there is no blood or body, but there's no getting around the fact that he dies and he stays dead. That's kind of heavy stuff for a kid's film. The fact that he dies isn't my problem. My problem is there's not really enough time to get attached to him, which makes his death a bit less meaningful to the audience, if not to Dr. Tenma.

The film ends on a cliffhanger, which was introduced in the last minute or two of screen time will probably never get resolved due to its poor performance at the box office. I really would have preferred they had left it out.

Overall, I enjoyed Astro Boy immensely, and I'll be buying a copy for myself.