I'm not going to give you a plot summary in this review; for one thing, it's been done already, and for another, it's a pointless excercise.  Just telling you the plot will not let you in on even a tenth of the movie's strength.

This movie has been compared to 2001: A Space Odyssey (a movie that I, and everybody I know, hated), but the comparison is tasteless.  This movie is as different from 2001 as it can possibly be. Where 2001 featured uninspired stationary-camera camerawork and scenes that served absolutely no purpose but to showcase special effects (I'm talking about the waitress scene, among others), Solaris features the most beautiful and delibirate filming that I've ever seen (apart from the camerawork in Tarkovsky's other movies).  Where 2001 is cold and heartless, Solaris is brimming with humanity.
Perhaps the people who don't see it are the ones who do not realize that there is a deeper level to humanity than hollywood-produced love stories; this is the level that this movie portrays - the level that comes out when everything seems lost, and you realize how petty all of your wants really are in the grand scheme of things.

This movie shows us that, and more. Tarkovsky is not simply "pretending to be clever" as some sci-fi afficiando exclaimed in a review before mine.  If you think that that's the case, then you obviously do not understand him, no matter what you may say and no matter how much of a sci-fi buff you are; this is NOT a science fiction movie at heart, but an intense and accurate look at humanity.

So accurate, really, that it makes me feel like a new person  after every time I see it; it's hard to describe, but it's as if for a brief period of time, I see everything in the world clearly and know exactly where my role is.

Everything in this movie actually DOES make sense. I've watched it three times thus far, and each time I've gained a bigger appreciation for it because I understood more and more of it; some scenes that happen earlier can only be understood after you've seen the whole movie. It's like peeling the layers of an onion.

In closing, I'd like to say this:
In the USSR, the intellectual community carried Tarkovsky on their shoulders while many from the general populace walked out on his films because they could not understand them. Solaris is one of his more accessible films, along with My Name is Ivan, but  there are doubtless still many who will not understand it.

If prefer action, hollywood-style shallowness, and teen-angst movies like Donnie Darko (which is another movie that I hated, and which in its philosophy is the complete opposite of this), chances are that you won't like Solaris.

I, however, will remain one of the folks who metaphorically carries Tarkovsky on their shoulders, because I do not know of ONE other filmmaker who even approaches his talent.