Surrogates - Touchstone

Bruce Willis has been lucky to have continuous career in Hollywood, with as many ups and downs as you can imagine, and it is in the action movies that he has been able to prevail. Whether or not that's good for him, you need to ask the star. The very exciting "Surrogates" should be another triumph for Willis. It is smart and engrossing entertainment, two of the reasons of why I go to the movies for.

The story takes place in the city of San Diego, California, somewhere in the present or the near future. Science has evolved to a point in which robots are now a reality, and are part of society. They are referred to as surrogates, and they are the ones doing all the work, which keeps the country going. The owners, meanwhile, stay home, connected to machines that monitor and record their surrogates every move. Of course, there are people against this way of life. They live in areas known as Human Coalition Reservations, in which surrogates are not accepted.

Bruce Willis is FBI agent Tom Greer, who partners with beautiful Peters (Rhada Mitchell). Both of them stay home, while their surrogates do the actual police work. One day, the surrogate of the son of Canter (James Cromwell), the man who created the surrogate system, is assassinated. However, by killing the surrogate, its actual owner (Canter's son) also dies. This is unusual, and Greer and Peters - their surrogates, that is - are sent to investigate. Unfortunately, while trying to rescue the weapon that is capable of killing both owners and surrogates from the criminals, Greer's surrogate is destroyed. This forces the real Tom Greer to get out of his apartment to solve the crime, an endeavor that may change the course of mankind.

Director Jonathan Mostow did a superb job in recreating the surrogate society, aided by the fantastic futurist cinematography of Oliver Wood. Willis is remarkable in acting both as a human and as a surrogate, although at the beginning, when you see Willis for first time, you can't help but ask yourself, "Why the hell is Willis using that silly hairstyle?" It turns out that we are looking at the surrogate, which makes perfect sense. The surrogates are much better looking that their actual owners, who, most of the times, look unhealthy and unhappy.  This is another fascinating look at what can be our future, which kept me glued to the screen to the very end. It also kept me thinking afterwards. The DVD also includes audio commentary by the director and a music video by Breaking Benjamin. (USA, 2009, color, 89 min plus additional materials)

Reviewed exclusively by Eric Gonzalez for [...] on January 24, 2010.