The assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963 was one of the most shocking historical events in American history, much as Pearl Harbor and the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were. Director Oliver Stone does an incredible job of re-creating the events and somber mood of that dark day and its aftermath by using real film footage shot by witnesses in Dealey Plaza, along with his own staged reenactments.

Whether you believe in an alleged vast (in my opinion, Stone's and Garrison's a bit too vast) conspiracy or Lee Harvey Oswald as the "lone nut" shooter, "JFK" should be seen for its historical content more than for its portrayal of real-life New Orleans district attorney Jim Garrison's conspiracy-fueled investigation and resulting 1968-69 trial of Clay Shaw.

If nothing else, the film raises some interesting questions about who and what dark forces may have been behind the assassination, all the while keeping your attention with entertaining, fast-paced editing. While telling Jim Garrison's theory of the assassination, the film immerses the viewer into the socio-political mood of the late 1950's and early 60's-era dark and covert Mafia/CIA/FBI liaisons, presenting at times a documentary-style view of Cold War events, the U.S.'s escalating involvement in Vietnam, and its war on Castro's Cuba.

John William's soundtrack is beautiful and moving, and is successful in enhancing the mystery and intrigue of the film's content. The all-star cast with Kevin Costner in the lead role as Jim Garrison helps the characters appear familiar and likable, although I felt as if Stone tried too hard in getting all these familiar faces to appear in the movie because he figured no one would be interested in watching the 3-hour epic if he hadn't. Gary Oldman does an admirable job of emulating the stuttering and nervous Oswald, and Donald Sutherland utterly rivets you the screen with his soft-spoken stories of government black operations. Also noteworthy is Joe Pesci, who puts forth a psychopathic -- almost comedic -- portrayal of David Ferrie, one of the alleged conspirators. Sissy Spacek plays the troubled and frightened, but ultimately supportive wife of Garrison, and Tommy Lee Jones is in the role of the man on trial, Clay Shaw. Last but not least are the cameo-like appearances of huge stars Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, John Candy, and Kevin Bacon.

Watch the movie, maybe a few times. If nothing else you'll walk away more historically enlightened, maybe even asking some interesting questions about the assassination yourself. And, a Hollywood film that stirred a public outcry over alleged government secrecy surrounding the event, ultimately forcing it to release assassination records and form the 1992 Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) is in itself historically significant. This should make anyone want to see it.