This is the 4th Rathbone/Bruce series film, and the 2nd to be set in contemporary times, after THE VOICE OF TERROR.  While I prefer overall a period-set Holmes, and I do think the first two installments in this cycle - THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES and THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES - are probably the best, the series remained fun all the way through, with a few of the entries rising to almost the heights of the first two, and this is probably the very best of them.

The beginning is just brilliant, as we peek in on Nazi agents scheming to get their hands on a new bomb sight and its inventor in a small Swiss village, only to be foiled by a disguised Holmes who spirits the scientist back to London.  It's all done on sets of course, and in this film the Hollywood look really works to the advantage of the story, helping to keep us feel like we're in something of a fantasy-world throughout.  Once back in England, Holmes does everything he can to keep the scientist from falling into the hands of the man behind it all -- not Hitler, but worse: Holmes' arch-enemy Moriarty. Of course the scientist disappears, leaving a tantalizing coded note, and Holmes goes in pursuit, once again in disguise. A climax in Moriarty's dockside lair is suitably exciting, and we can all guess that all ends well, can't we? Slightly over-the-top patriotic message as the credits roll.

The fine sense of pacing, under Roy William Neill who was to become the series' regular director, is what stands out the most; all of the Holmes films are fairly short, but this one at just 68 minutes feels as fleshed-out and full as most 90-minute thrillers from the period.  Rathbone gets to put his own abilities with disguise to use here as Holmes spends a good bit of time in the seedy docks as an old seaman; Bruce's Watson is a bit more competent and less used to comic effect than usual, which is all to the good, and Lionel Atwill is a suitably brilliant yet mad Moriarty.

The MPI editions of this series are the ones to get if you're in North America; yes, they're more pricey than the various public domain issues but the difference in quality is extraordinary.  There's a big box set in the UK that is also reputed to be quite good.  The choice is...elementary, dear reader.