I was in college when the first Die Hard movie was released.  I watched it in a packed theater in Los Angeles with a raucous crowd shortly after its opening.  The crowd had a great time, laughing in all of the obligatory spots where laugh lines are intentionally placed.  However, walking out of the theater, I could not help but feel that I had watched something other than a run-of-the-mill action movie.  What struck me most was the intriguing bad guy, Hans Gruber, played brilliantly by then-unknown actor Alan Rickman.

Hans presented a refreshingly complex and out-of-the-ordinary villain for the audience to savor, what with his off-the-cuff masquerading as an escaped hostage when surprised by protagonist John McClane (Bruce Willis) and his fake-out of the LAPD and FBI into believing that he and his gang were international terrorists making various "release our imprisoned colleagues" demands when they were actually just bent on robbing the Nakatomi Corporation--culminating in one of my absolute favorite lines in movie history when in response to Holly Genero/McClane's (Bonnie Bedelia) declaration that despite all of the grandiose talk and build-up, Hans is actually nothing but a common thief, he responds with gusto, "I am an EXCEPTIONAL thief!  And, considering that I'm moving up to kidnapping, I'd be a little more polite if I were you, Mrs. McClane!"

The sparring between Hans and McClane is amusing and drama-building--while the physical stuff is reserved for McClane's encounters with one of Hans's muscular henchmen, played by Alexander Gudenov.  The touching account of why the donut-eating LAPD officer "Al" (played with heart by Reginald Veljohnson) adds a very human side to the film, as well as a subtle reminder of just how tough it is to be a cop.  All of this along with very offbeat touches (such as the advice that McClane receives aboard his flight to L.A. to remove his shoes and sink his feet into the carpet to unwind from a long trip--leaving him barefoot throughout his battles with Hans and his gang) make this a far-from-ordinary action movie.

Viewers will also be amused by the script's jabs at the FBI and the news media.  While it is common practice in movies and on TV to take swipes at the FBI's overzealousness in pulling rank on local police forces, as well as the news media's lack of scruples in trying to get the scoop on a hot story, both are played for tension-releasing laughs in a very fresh-feeling manner that flows well with the rest of the story.

I was surprised during a recent lunchtime discussion to learn that some of my younger co-workers (in their 20s and into their early 30s) have never watched the original Die Hard.  I tried explaining to them that none of the overly stunt- and special effects-dependent sequels compare to the original, whose strength was built on character development, quirky twists to the tale, and a slow but steady pattern of dramatic and psychological build-up, with a few occasional small releases of tension along the way, culminating in the final resolution.  Director John McTiernan's pacing and sprinkling of humor throughout the movie are what make Die Hard a memorable film.