Where the films of H.G. Lewis are interesting today as camp curiosities, industrial filmmaker Herk Harvey's CARNIVAL OF SOULS remains a chilling existential drive-in ghost story. Candace Hilligoss plays Mary Henry, a young girl who survives a waterbound car accident. She promptly leaves her hometown, travelling to Utah, where she has been hired as a church organist. Mary is haunted by visions of a ghostly man (Harvey), and is strangely drawn to an abandoned pavilion where other apparitions seem to congregate. She periodically has strange "spells" in which she can't hear anything but her own voice, and no one around her seems to know she's there. She can't connect with anyone emotionally, including her overly amorous neighbor at the boarding house, the minister of the church where she plays, her landlady, or the doctor who tries to help her. If you've seen any horror films in your life, you've probably figured out the mystery; the plot is very simple, but that's not important. Atmosphere is the name of the game here, and Harvey (directing from a script he co-wrote with friend and fellow filmmaker John Clifford) lays it on thick: the film is eerily photographed; the amateurish performances of most cast members only enhance the dreamlike atmosphere; the all-pipe organ score drones dirge-like non-melodies endlessly throughout, sending chills up one's spine. There are many images in the film that were later copied in other great horror films: Mary emerging from the lake after the accident, covered in mud, looks alot like Carrie covered in pig's blood on prom night; the white face of the mystery man peering up into Mary's window resembles a simliar shot in HALLOWEEN, when Jamie Lee Curtis thinks she sees someone standing in her back yard; and of course the ghouls bring to mind Romero's zombies; I sometimes even wonder if David Lynch might have seen this film. But unlike those films, here we see nary a drop of blood in sight. This film proves that to make an effective chiller, a director need not resort to wall-to-wall gore tactics; in fact, there need not be any onscreen violence in order to generate suspense and atmosphere. Sometimes, violence, even gore, is necessary in a film. But in this case, gore would have destroyed the atmosphere. This is not only one of my favorite horror films, it is one of the best utilizations of a low budget I've ever seen. The incredibly eerie B&W photography, the jittery music, the stilted quality of the dialogue and performances (to some extent unintentional, no doubt)... the mood of this film is its most important asset, and as such, I think every filmmaker interested in working in the genre should take a look and learn. Sure, maybe there a few unintentional laughs here and there, and it isn't exactly horrifying, but overall it leaves you shaken. This will probably not appeal to slasher fans or splatterpunks.