Most people in western culture only know about this topic to a marginal level filled with the same stereotypes placed on foreign countries. I liked how the story went accross several locations and characters to depict that this happens everywhere, even to a middle-class family from USA.

This movie being PG is good and bad. Good like others mentioned because it allows the movie to be watched as a family to raise these important issues to the common naiveties youth have. Bad becuase an R rated movie, without the director exploiting the subject, would allow so much more depth into the true horror of the situation, to really cause the viewer to feel affected by the pain endured by these individuals. Essentially allowing the subject to stay with you and haunt you, to make the viewer mad enough to want to be part of the solution.

The movie itself does a good job of bringing light to the subject in many forms. Because of the subject matter and length of the DVD, viewers erge to have the 'hollywood ending' of everything going to be alright at the end. If only it could always be that way. A true movie on the subject would unfortunately spare this type of ending, and create awareness at the end, opposed to just statistics.  As the other 2 star reviews mentioned, there are several pits in the story. The dad travelling to save his daughter is complete hollywood. Especially becuase when he gets there he just has to watch it happen and can't do anything about it, until the true to life rarity of the police saving the day.

This movie is a complete straight to DVD release though in terms of its camera work, acting, subdued in the background music,  and the overall story stucture. Mira Sorvino is really stiff in this performance. Most of the time she is very monotoned with only the odd exception. There was some overacting, and some underacting (most notibly from the american parents who just didn't show enough real life panic and devestation. And the stupidity of the mother screaming at the offender on the phone when that could easily get her daughter killed).

Would I recommend seeing the movie - absolutely. Its one of the few with this subject matter, and it really opens your eyes to the subject. I however feel there is so much more to be had on one of the touchiest subjects most of the world has isolated their attention from. Its insane how people in modern time can literally lose their identity, freedom, and most of all - their humanity. I really hope in the future this subject will be treated to academy award winning performances from screenplay writers and directors with years of research on the subject; instead of just exploiting it like in the movie 'Taken'. (and in addition, a well thought out documentary would be nice too) In the meantime, there are a number of good books 'not for sale' and 'a crime so montrous.' Unlike anything i've ever seen before, this subject really encourages me to see what I can do to help, and I hope more likeminded people can help stop today's greatest tragedy.