Above all else, "The Monkees" is aware of itself as a television program.

This might sound odd to most--but it's one of the most culturally provocative and intellectually rewarding aspects of the show. It was leagues ahead of its time in playful satire, cultural punning, and broad-view distillation of social and political issues (all wrapped up in what seemed to be endless zaniness). Most viewers are able to sit back and enjoy the sheer, unbridled fun and music, but there's enough meat here to fuel someone's thesis. The humorous, self-referential way in which the show (season 2, especially) acknowledges its own existence as a tv production, a moving picture, and a reference to the "real" within the "created" is done through fluid delivery of both the obvious and subtle. Characters frequently comment on filming techniques, episode length, and the television aspect itself, breaking it down into an amusing satire of all television and move styles and tropes that it existed with and after.

Placing the Monkees within their historical context--they are a completely, joyfully post-modern experience. They break down all expectation of television--challenging TV stereotypes, running through common themes (while poking fun at these same cliche expectations with over-the-top humor). Certain episodes have ground-breaking fluidity, exhibiting what was then new approaches to cut-scenes, layering, and blending of both the imagined story and the real filming. Episodes can be read as straightforward, innocent romps or as self-aware ideas, rollicking in its own awareness of its silly (yet biting) review of media themes.

For a scholar of art history, "The Monkees" offers a raw, underrated, fabulous approach to the deconstruction of cultural expectation while paradoxically existing as a marketable package.

If you've seen it before, and enjoyed it on the surface for its storylines, watch it again and pay attention to its unique sense of identity. No episode is to be taken seriously, and yet within that silliness, there is real, genuine social commentary. The writers were brilliant, the episodes well crafted, and the charm of the Monkees themselves endears to this day.

Season 2 shows it's possible to be filled with the serious, the silly, the satirical and the strong--and thoroughly enjoyable decades later.