This is a very likeable, root-for-the-underdog, feel-good movie that everyone can like.  One could mistakenly think that was a description of "The Karate Kid," but it applies equally well to "The Hammer."

In fact, there are many parallels between "Karate Kid" and "The Hammer."  They both have underdog fighters as their protagonists, they both have boy-meets-girl love stories, they both have wisecracking older fighters mentoring a younger fighter, and they both culminate in fight tournament, feel-good climaxes.  And while neither movie is high art, they are both lighthearted, humor-filled romps that stand up to repeated viewings.

The protagonist, Jerry Ferro, is played by Adam Carolla, and is loosely based upon his own experiences as a carpenter/boxing instructor before he broke into the entertainment industry on "Loveline" and "The Man Show."  Imagine Karate Kid's Daniel-san becoming a 40-year old, sharing all his Miyagi-taught wisdom with a younger fighter, while simultaneously training for a comeback fight tournament, and you have a basic template for Ferro.

Thanks to his real life boxing background, Carolla brings a great sense of realism to the boxing, and especially the rope skipping scenes.  His dramatic skills aren't as impressive, though one could argue that Ferro is intentionally written to emulate Carolla's real life, semi-stiff affect.  If that was the intent, then I'd have to concede that Carolla's performance is spot-on perfect (since it wouldn't be an act at all).  In any case, half of Ferro's lines are Carolla-isms delivered in his real life comedian style, so this slightly weak link is generally not noticeable.

In "The Karate Kid," the weakest link is probably the boy-girl love story.  "The Hammer," on the other hand, has a pretty compelling love story thanks to great writing, and a strong performance by the love interest played by Heather Juergensen.  And it's really hard to not admire "the candle scene" (I won't make this a spoiler by saying any more than that).

That being said, the movie's greatest strength is its humor.  You rarely have to go more than a minute or two between laughs.  A movie that sends you on your way with a belly full of laughs, and a warm fuzzy feeling about underdogs catching a break is a can't-miss combo.  Like I said earlier, this is not high art, so I'm giving it 4-stars instead of 5.  But don't let that deter you from seeing this -- Karate Kid is also only 4-stars, and you sure wouldn't want to have missed that one, right?