To start with, I am very happy that someone finally put out Car 54, Where Are You? on dvd.  It seems to be the forgotten show.

The show itself is a 5 star show in my opinion.  The quality of the mastering is very good.  Easily 4 star for the video but the sound is definately dated but still pretty good would give it a 3 star rating.  It sounds a bit tinny.  I have to admit that I was impressed with the overall quality of each show and yes, the original opening and ending music is complete.  Every show is shown in it's original, luxurious and beautiful Black and White presentation.  I am thankful they did not attempt to colorize this show.

The way that the show is presented on each disc is 2 stars.  I give it 2 stars as they are on the discs but as so many others are saying, they are not shown in the order in which they were broadcast. My question is, why?  A company spends millions of dollars to obtain the rights, they spend more on mastering and put in many hours to master each show, but then sloppily and uncaringly throw it together.  What's up with that?  Not a deal breaker for me, but it may be for others.  Especially since you are paying a premium for this set.  There is only a short extra in this set and no real background or paperwork included, but again, not a deal breaker.

Now, the case that everyone is talking about.  I opened it and thought that it did not look that bad and the discs were secure, so what is the fuss?  OK, then I tried to take one out!  Now I know!  You have to read the directions on the disc, not on the case as to how to remove the discs. My wife liked the case when she saw it and liked the idea of how they did it, until she tried to take one out too.  Of course, now that the disc is out, the next trick is to put it back in.  Again, not a real easy task. I give the case 2 stars as there are so many styles of cases out there in the mass market that the company could of picked one of these instead of trying to be different or fancy on this case.  Be fancy on disc content presentation like putting the shows in correct order.

All I can say is that if you like the show as I do, buy it.  You will learn how to take out the discs and put them back into the case as time goes on or do as some people have done and use your own case or sleeve although it sort of messes up the concept since it all should be together and kept together as a package. Hopefully Shanachie will read the reviews and do it right on Season 2.

UPDATE 5/24/11: I have owned this set for a little while now and have to say I have finally learned how to get the discs in and out of the package easily.  If you do not own this set, don't laugh.  It is a challenge to learn how to remove and replace discs and it's definately an art.  I can easily remove and replace the discs whithout and friction to cause possible scratches or marks and is easy once you have it fugured out.  Now even though I have finally mastered it, it is not bad design but would rather have the standard slim cases in a box.