My 10-Question Film Criteria Applied to Happy Endings:

1. Does the plot feel fresh, or is it clich&eacute;d? The main plot is certainly creative. We have a family planning counselor (Lisa Kudrow) who receives a visit from a young aspiring filmmaker (Jesse Bradford) claiming to know her lost son she gave up for adoption. The catch? He wants to blackmail her into making the reunification a documentary. Just in time, Kudrow's "happy endings" masseuse (Bobby Cannavale) suggests spinning the documentary into his own risqu&eacute; line of work. The sub-plots basically have general ideas that are given creative elements. Unfortunately, these storylines all get massively hairy--too much so, it seems, for a single film. It might have worked better if each plot were given a single yet powerful layer, then each story wouldn't need such excessive flushing out.

2. Does the overall style (structure/cinematography/special effects/other features) work? The film, instead of using the conventional voiceover strategy, opts for side bar narrations designed to produce the same effect. This method can get tricky: it can't be overdone, carrying the weight of the plot and substituting for emotional scenes. Although harder on the eyes than a voiceover, I thought this element was done well. Another feature of Happy Endings is its plot structure of several interweaving storylines (think Magnolia, Happiness, or Love Actually). But because it lacks the absurd dark comedy of Happiness and the emotions found in Magnolia and Love Actually, it ends up being a weak approach stylistically.

3. How is the acting? This is one of the most well-casted films I've seen--everyone is convincing. Lisa Kudrow's performance excels the most, but Bradford and Gyllenhaal fall close behind.

4. Are the characters engaging? Not really. This is a film that is designed to be about the characters, but ends up being more about the concepts. Kudrow's character Mamie is the only one I really come close to developing an emotional bond to. Everyone else just served their roles.

5. Is there a resounding theme? Honesty and deception are themes prevalent in all the storylines. I love how near the beginning Gyllenhaal sings, "honesty is all I ask of you..." and then everyone, including our main protagonist, deceives.

6. How is the dialogue? Witty yet natural--this is often a hard combination to come by, and it's well-done in this film. A+ dialogue.

7. How is the music score/soundtrack?  Excellent. The instrumentals add to the scenes, as do the montage songs. Gillenhall, in the film's band, also throws in a couple classic tunes with some originals.

8. How (if applicable) does this compare to the director's other works? I have yet to see Don Roos's  other works, but I hear this is of a lesser quality than the comparable The Opposite of Sex.

9. Who is the target audience? Ideal viewers are both open-minded (it deals with homosexual and abortion issues) and patient (it's over two hours). It appeals mostly to an age group of 18-35.

10. Would I watch it again? Probably not.