This movie has all the trademarks of a Tim Burton creation.

1. Incredible special effects.(The ape costumes are uncanny in accuracy and realism.)

2. No story.

3.No characters worth caring about.

4.No depth whatsoever.

What is most discouraging are the people (adults I'm assuming) who actually liked this piece of nothing. Many proclaim it a "Planet of the Apes" for the new millenium; As if  the  basic  qualities of  dramatic writing, character development, depth and "INTELLIGENCE" are somehow "Out dated commodities" and are no longer relevent to modern society.  It's one thing for a grossly overrated director and a money grubbing studio to turn out garbage just to make a profit in the the first few weeks of release. It happens all the time. It's another thing when professional critics and viewers hail such movies as  good, if not works of genius. People like Burton and his adherents are de- valuing the collective critical mind of the public and our concept of what "genius"really means. Granted, he has an off beat visual style that is unique and valid. He'd make a great visual artist. However, he  has no more business making movies than my Aunt Frieda. (Name changed to protect the innocent.)Here's a thought: Rather than think of Science Fiction as a special genre unto itself, where one can disregard the basics of good, effective drama/adventure, Consider it the same as any dramatic work; Subject to the same rules. All the special effects in the world will not make up for a weak story or one dimensional characters. Another thought: Usually when a movie is "Remade"  it's because the first version was very successful and well done . If that's true, then the original movie probably said all there was to say about it's subject matter and said it effectively. Therefore, NO Remake needs to be made. But tell that to the shallow , unoriginal , money grubbing "Suits" at any major studio.They'll pillage any existing property with the excuse of "updating" it for a new generation. All they need is a zany flashy "Wunderkind" like Tim Burton to throw together, flashy, empty movies that dazzle the eye long enough to turn a profit.  The only sign of hope is that there are 202 used copies for sale at under a dollar. The people who sold those have brains. Maybe I'll buy one. I've got a table with an uneven leg that needs propping up. To those of you who like this movie; I mean you no offense, but you are terribly wrong in your judgement. Catch the original; It's an extraordinary film, but be ready to do a little thinking. It won't hurt you.