I thought the movie was highly enjoyable and overall entertaining. But, there were a lot of themes, and they were all mashed into one, so it wasn&#65533;t quite clear what the movie was trying to get across. There was Le Ly against her own human nature, her religion, and her needs. And throughout the movie it would focus on one of those ideas, but it would never really be resolved and therefore it was left just floating around. For example, Le Ly against her religion. She couldn&#65533;t leave her husband Steve to just be self destructive, and suicidal but if she helped him, she&#65533;d be going against her Buddhist ideals because she volunteered to give up her religion for him. But, if she didn&#65533;t her karma would be off balance and she would never reach any type of peace within herself. The movie never really resolved that conflict, even with Steve&#65533;s suicide. Was she really ready to give up her faith for him? After he died that theme was sort of just left out to dry.
Another thing I was confused about was why Tommy Lee Jones was made out to be the main character of the movie, and the entire thing was supposed to be him or something. In fact, the back of the movie box said he, &#65533;lead the cast,&#65533; but, there was no leading of the cast by Jones. He was good in the role he was supposed to play; he was creepy and dangerous yet somehow he had a redeeming quality to him that made you feel sorry for him. But he was in the movie for a total of maybe thirty minutes and then he died. Yes, he was a big character and was important to the story, but his acting didn&#65533;t &#65533;burn through the screen like white phosphorus.&#65533;
I thought the movie was very realistic. It was based on a true story, so it was very factual and accurate in its representations of events.  I think that it tried to take the viewer from one part of history to the present, and to portray what life is like in Vietnam for the people living there. There was no holding back in the scenes, and there was no sugar coating of events. Le Ly was brutally raped by a fellow villager, her entire village was burned down, people she loved were tortured, even she was tortured, and her husband even held a loaded gun to head, ready to pull the trigger.
The visions of Vietnam that Stone presented the viewer were absolutely amazing. It is a more beautiful country than I ever thought, and the cinematography was excellent. One scene that stuck out to me was when Le Ly and her mother were working as servants and Le Ly fell in love with the house head. This scene stuck out to me especially because of the colors. The house itself was very white and beautiful, and the way that the cameras caught the angles of the sunlight was really dazzling.
The movie definitely held my interest. It never dragged and it was really interesting the way Stone took us, the viewers, into all the aspects of the life of Le Ly. I hate to use this clich&eacute;, but it really was a &#65533;roller coaster&#65533; of emotions. I cried in some parts, laughed in other parts, was touched, was inspired, and was hurt right along with Le Ly. I really enjoyed watching the movie, beginning to end.