An Explanation of the "Everyman" reference by way of introduction:

The morality play Everyman (c.1495-1518), is a Medieval telling of a simple tale casted by actors representing various human attributes, and failings.  The cast includes such characters as "Everyman" as well as various human characteristics with whom this representative human must interact. They include, for examples.  "Death," "Knowledge," "Lusty Wenches," and "Goods."  It is NOT a comedy!  The characters are not carefully drawn individual humans, as we have come to expect in `good' films and plays, but rather they are human personifications - representing in each character, a singular aspect of the human condition.  Almost like casting a show with the various pieces of a single person to watch them interact - an idea which has probably already been accomplished - likely, off Broadway.  If not, someone ought to give it a thought.

On To The Review and Commentary:

In any event, "Miracle on 34th Street" is such a story.  Yes, there are characters played by real actors.  Some of them, quite good, including the well known and accomplished character actor who won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for this piece of performance work in 1947, Edmund Gwenn as "Kris Kringle", the old fellow who really believes himself to be `the one-and-only Santa Claus"; John Payne as the attorney who proves that to be true in a New York City/State court; Natalie Wood as the little girl who has learned cold, hard skepticism and concreteness from her wounded and frightened mother - portrayed nicely by Maureen O'Hara.  But while there are many other characters in the film, they are, in this context, less important than the human qualities and flaws and potentials that they represent.  Seen in this way, "Miracle on 34th Street" is a Morality Tale for All Times - especially for our own.

For those of you who may remain, nearly 60 years after its production and release, unfamiliar with the basic story, I shall briefly summarize it for you:  The famous Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade - the official opening (in 1946-47) of the Christmas season of selling and celebration in New York, is the responsibility of Susan's (Natalie Wood) mother Doris (Maureen O'Hara.) Susan is a single parent having suffered a failed romance and marriage with who she had thought was "Prince Charming" but who turned out to be someone far less desirable. She is concrete, skeptical, businesslike and appropriate, yet curt and painfully devoid of any fantasies or dreams.  These deficiencies are deliberately taught to her daughter, who shares her complete lack of faith, hope and trust - also, they are equally devoid of imagination.

On this one special Thanksgiving morning, the parade's Santa shows up intoxicated and needs to be replaced. PRESTO!  Kris Kringle appears, dons the costume and performs miraculously well! Everyone is happy.  The problems begin to develop when "Big Greed #1" (in the character of store owner Wm. H. Macy) hires him to be the store Santa - thinking it likely that his jovial and lovable presence will increase the Toy Department's sales. Before too long, everyone realizes that old Kris really believes himself to be Santa Claus, and all heck breaks loose.  Of course, as a `romantic comedy' made in 1947, everything resolves beautifully - the good get regarded and the bad get their just deserts. In between, however, an important metaphoric staging of the human condition and many of its (our) basic dilemmas are played out by actors representing, as in Everyman, basic human characteristics.

For example: Kris Kringle (Santa):  Goodness, unqualified love, hope and trust. Susan (The little girl): The reality of youth's struggle with reality vs. imagination and faith. Doris (Susan's Mom):  Hurt and disappointment. Mr. Gayly (The attorney): The converted hero who proves faith to be warranted. Mr. Sawyer (The store psychologist): Envy, pettiness and cruelty. Arnold (Assistant Janitor): Youth's better inclinations, vulnerable though they are. Mr. Macy:  Big Greed #1. Mr. Gimble: Big Greed #2. Mr. Shelhammer (Toy department Manager): Little Greed #1. There are many other characters portraying many other aspects of who and what we are - have been - or might yet become.

I could go on and on - but I think the essence of my point is clear.

In the interaction of these people/characters/aspects of humanity - a wonderful story is played out for us. A story filled with inspiration and thought-provoking light moments.

The plot is slight, the sentiments unarguable sappy and the black and white photography is lovely.  I urge you to 1) Rent or buy this film and watch it (without the televisions nuisance commercial interruptions) sometime between Thanksgiving and Christmas together with your entire family.  It is a far better, less violently and anguishing film to watch than the much touted "It's A Wonderful Life; and 2) Avoid wasting you time on any of the several remakes (two on film and one for TV) of this film.  They got it right the first time - also it is worth avoiding the `colorized' version as the addition of a color pallet actually detracts from the magnificent simplicity of the tale itself.

I actually watch this movie every year - it helps to get me into the `spirit' of the holidays as they might have once been and, given the good efforts of good people, might once again become. It's 97 minutes you won't regret spending in front of your TV.

This particular special "50th Anniversary Edition" has been Digitally Remastered yielding a MUCH better resolution that even the original 35mm film, and it also includes some wonderful extras including a string of original `Trailers' shown in theatres prior to its release in 1947.  Some of the unexpected cameos in these trailers - as well as the theme of them - are best left unrevealed by me.  The surprises in them actually add to the wonder of the film itself.

Don't miss this one! It gets better with each and every viewing.