Stanley Kubrick: The Essential Collection might just be best value on Amazon.  I purchased it as part of a Gold Box Deal of the Day for nearly half off but I easily would have paid full price as well.  It's worth it.  This set collects 9 of Kubrick's most beloved films across 9 discs, plus another DVD of further special features.

I hardly think I need to review the films them selves as each is a classic in their own right.  This set includes Lolita, Sparticus, Dr. Strangelove: Or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb, 2001: A Space Odyssey, A Clockwork Orange,  The Shining, Full Metal Jacket, and Eyes Wide Shut

(For those wondering I have not yet seen whether or not this set includes the American or International cut of Eyes Wide Shut.  In the American Theatrical version of the film, the studio digitally imposed several figures to block some of the more graphic imagery)

 Many of the Individual movies have special features as well, including commentaries from the star's of the films and film historians.  The transfer of the films to disc are some of the best I've seen on DVD and they look and sound terrific.

I have seen some voice concerns about the way 10 discs are packaged bus rest assured the design of the DVD case it quite elegant.  The discs are held in by the usual manner, with the clip going through the hole.  Two of the discs are attached to the insides of the case its self, one on each side. The other discs are clipped on to hinged plastic pieces, similar to many 2 disc DVD sets.  They are clipped 1 on each side of these turn-able plastic pages.  The way the discs are set and the plastic hinged ensures that the discs never hang each other up.  To remove each disc simply use you finger tips around the edge of the disc to lift.  This the way Discs are supposed to be picked up anyways and I have to question the basic motor functions of those who were infuriated and perplexed by this packaging.

Each disc is skinned with a solid color making for a sleek and easily discernible collection of movies.

Lastly, this set comes with a short but interesting booklet providing some context and history for each of the films as well as explaining the progression of the themes in Kubrick's work over the course of his career.

This is a great set to own if you simply enjoy Kubrick's films or if you want to pour over them for days.