While I'm willing to be swayed by a film, I will admit I oft go into a viewing with preconceptions (thus requiring the need for a second viewing so I can be more objective). This time around: 1- I'm not a fan of Ms Johansson; 2- Mr Wilkinson, I feel, has been in altogether far too many films of late and I'm bored with him; 3- Recent adaptations of Wilde's works have suffered greatly by their directors' attempts to 'open up' the claustrophobic parlour parlance with scenic inserts in an attempt to be nominated for a Cinematography Oscar at the cost of crippling the cadence inherent in Mr W's plays; 4- learning that some of the cast were Americans, feared that they'd do a gawdawful job with their English accents; and 5- Lady Windermere's Fan is not among my favourite Wilde plays.

This film did not require a second viewing. At least not for me to thoroughly enjoy it. It may require a second viewing, however, for me to search for all of its pitfalls. And that can be fairly enjoyable in itself, mind.

None of the main actors, including Ms Johansson, appear to be 'acting', if you will. They are their characters, they inhabit them. It feels right and not forced. Mr Wilkinson does a better job here than with the Rev from EARNEST: light with hidden gravitasse as opposed to cartoonish ecumincalism.

The pacing is great AND the director gets to 'open up' the world of his movie. Though with a different setting (Italy) and time (1930s), his transitions and inserts keep up with the tempo of Wilde's words (even if it's a pity many of them are still excised in this abbreviated adaptation) while injecting fresh energy into how and where scenes are played out. And I did like how this tale - or expose - of social scandal played out within the circle of British and American upper-class while surrounded by one of the more passionate and explosive tribes, the Italians.

This was a good, solid movie, even without orcs, explosions and cgi talking cars (though these can be good, too). Gives me lots of hope for further Wilde adaptations... which I know will probably end up being less Wilde and more bewildering in their inane executions. But hey...