I couldn't wait for the remake of Last House on the Left to go to video.  Last night I finally got to watch it.  I didn't really expect anything as edgy as the original but all things considered I did expect something more believable.  The only good thing I can say about this movie is that production value was much better.  That means the sound and video quality were better then the original.  It was also good to get rid of that awful music and what I think was supposed to be comic relief in the form of depicting the cops as idiots from the original movie.

I didn't expect the original script to be tightly followed.  It would have been nice to at least follow the basics.  There were parts that Wes obviously didn't want from the original.  If he didn't want the terrorizing of the girls then fine.  He should have gotten rid of the rape scene entirely.  Most people would take her clothes off if he were going to do that.  As it was, there was nothing in that part of the remake that made sense.  They tried very hard to make this politically correct and sanitize it to death.  The original was much more realistic.  After three stab wounds most people would be bleeding profusely but not here.  Any blood is left for the struggle at the end except for the blood spilled in the river from the gun shot.

The acting was atrocious with the exception of the girl who survived a gunshot in the water and managed to swim up river until she could make it home.  The bad guys girlfriend was pretty good in her fight scene also.  The bad guy looked like he walked off a soap opera set where he played a pretty boy.  There was nothing pretty about David Hess.  David was very convincing as a psychopath.  All of the original characters were convincing.  Hess was exceptional.

If you absolutely have to see this movie, because the original was so good that this one can't really be that bad, then I suggest waiting 2 months.  Then you will be able to find it in the $4.99 discounted DVD's in Walmart.  They have spent more money advertising this pile of excrement than they used to make the entire original movie.

Personally I'm just glad I got two brand new kittens to entertain me or the entire two hours would have been wasted.