Concept: Great layout of a workout. Because she alternates true cardio (not just a little moving back and forth) with an excellent layout of strength training you get a well-rounded workout.

Cueing: She is excellent at cueing, however in the beginning some of her movements are so fast that even with the good cueing I got a little lost. However, this was very minimal and I do, admittedly, have two left feet so the fact that it wasn't bothersome for me should make it well followed for most!

range of moves: excellent. Not a boring spot in the mix and she takes you through leg, arm, glutes, and ab moves in a mix that keeps your interest.

caloric burn: Unfortunately, this is the biggest drawback to an otherwise great dvd. I wear a bodybugg that measures total caloric expenditure (and I only say this so you know where I'm getting this info from rather than just guessing) and this had about half the caloric burn of many other strength plus cardio dvds such as the Biggest Loser dvds. But you also don't feel wiped out after it...so if you are looking for a lighter workout on some days that still provides good muscle building and some cardio and ab work, it's still a good addition to your workout.

setting: ads interest. Cool gym with lots of others working out around her and a separate "beginner" to help those just starting out follow along. These aren't "normal everyday" people...very fit and in shape. For me, that's inspiring, but some prefer a mix so I'm just pointing it out to allow you to make your own choice. Good camera work...no close ups where they should show the full range, and varied angles added interest and allowed you to see others working out.

instruction: very good safety instruction. In fact, she helped me with some moves a bit more than other dvds did...so whether you are a beginner or a constant fitness buff, she's clear, concise, and you may learn something about form.

Conclusion: This is worth adding to your collection if you like to vary your workouts. However, if you are looking to it as your only fitness regime, bear in mind you'll have lower caloric burn than many other dvds on the market so you may want to add a little cardio in before or after if fat loss is your goal. And, although I enjoyed the moves a few at the beginning left me a little lost. However, the majority were easy to follow. I enjoy it as part of my workout rotation and the instructor provides good energy as do those following her.