Some of the other reviewers are disgusted by this film. I think their disgust is unwarranted. I watched the movie thinking their comments were overly dramatic. I still do, but I am not impressed by this movie.

The topic of adult incest is very explosive -- even though one could persuasively argue that consensual and nonexploitative sex between two adults is their own business. All of the biological opposition to adult incest vanishes in the gay context - there is no risk that the partners will transmit genetic defects to their offspring. So, this is basically a moral question. And general notions of morality have done a lot of harm in society - especially to gays and lesbians.

Rather than exploring this topic with a sufficient amount of depth, the film falls very flat. We don't really get much in terms of character development. Everyone is loving and close -- the brothers, parents, maid, swim coach, and even strangers met in a nightclub. We know that the kids were very intimate as they grew up, but there is no discussion of why they became sexual as adults. It literally - just happens. There isn't much discussion of their relationship before or after they consummate their desire.

The sex scenes are very tender, and much more "progressive" than what you see in American films. So, I applaud the director for this. But that's about the best stuff in the movie. Really good, tender and romantic sex: this is the stuff of a Harlequin romance. More discussion about the subject of sexual morality, however, would have resulted in a better product.

Also, it seems that the men were addicted to one another. This doesn't look like the healthiest of relationships. I don't want to say too much about this, but once they start having sex, everyone and everything (other than the brothers) become irrelevant. Finally, the ending was predictable and simplistic. It is also proof of love addiction, not healthy love.

If you want to see gorgeous men love each other tenderly on screen, this movie will satisfy this craving. If you want a smart exploration of the morality surrounding adult incest -- this movie will not impress you.