Winnie-the-Pooh is an old childhood favorite of mine. From seeing cartoons on TV to keeping only two of my old childhood toys (a Pooh bear that had lost it's shirt and a tiger that reminded one of Tigger) to "The House At Pooh Corner" being the first full-length book I read, the bear with very little brain was a large influence on my early life.

Disney's adaptation of Pooh was my introduction, and I have Walt Disney to thank for that. I wanted to own all of the adaptations (just as I quickly collected all four of Milne's books) on video. There were "Winnie-the-Pooh and the Honey Tree," "Winnie-the-Pooh and the Blustery Day," and "Winnie-the-Pooh and Tigger, Too." There was also another cartoon called "Winnie-the-Pooh and a Day for Eeyore."

My first Pooh video was "Winnie-the-Pooh and the Blustery Day," which is, to this day, stuck in a defective VCR which we later disposed of. Later, shortly after my 17th birthday, I bought the VHS of the 25th anniversary edition of "The Many Adventures of Winnie-the-Pooh," the feature film compilation of the features. After about 3 viewings, the tape refused to play.

Shortly afterward, I switched to DVD, but goodness! There were so many titles that I wanted to get that Pooh fell far behind.

Today, however, I now own this new DVD edition. It has everything I loved about the old VHS tapes, and more. Included from the "Many Adventures" tape is "The Story Behind the Masterpiece" featurette, originally made for the film's first VHS release, "Winnie-the-Pooh and a Day for Eeyore," and Carly Simon's music video for "Winnie-the-Pooh." There are more features, including all the still relevant features from the 25th Anniversary DVD, and a couple new ones, including the first episode of "My Friends Tigger & Pooh."

Today, it makes me sad that Disney has relegated Pooh to preschool entertainment and cheesy family films. Probably the best thing they did since the cartoons' releases was the animated TV series "The New Adventures of Winnie-the-Pooh," which they should release a complete collection to DVD...

I feel that the DVD could have used 2 discs. There could be three ways to watch the film, all possible with branching techniques. How about being able to watch the original shorts seperately, or together in the film, and being able to see the film's TV version with "A Day For Eeyore" included? (See, I have ideas!) The first disc could have the film, the viewing options (with extra bits of footage), and "A Day For Eeyore," and the pop-up trivia track (which should be replaced with an audio commentary... too bad Christopher Robin Milne has passed away). The second disc would have all the features.

When Disney releases the title again in 2012, maybe they should take my advice. (Of course, by that time, they'll probably be phasing out regular DVDs for Blu-Ray or something else...)

Anyways, even though the DVD doesn't quite meet my fondest wishes, it is still delightful and I am glad to have it in my DVD collection at last.