I have loved this inside-the-industry flick for years, but just got the DVD and loved it all over again. As a movie about the movies, it is right up there with Sunset Blvd., The Player,  Swimming with Sharks, Harlow, and The Oscar. Anyway, the story line is covered elsewhere, but I had a few comments on other aspects of the film, particularly on character. First--I agree that this film contains some of Douglas' and Turner's best work. I think the pivotal scene in the film, and its emotional core, is the scene following Gloria's premiere, when she comes to Shields' mansion, only to find he has dumped her for the slutty sexpot. (This actress, and not Grahme, should have gotten the Oscar). In dismissing Gloria Lorrison, Shields reveals his vulnerability, and that his love for Gloria has, in fact, been able to reach a deep level--and for that very reason, she must be jettisoned, and he must hurt her terribly to make her leave for good. He cannot allow anyone to be that close--I only wish we knew why! But he is not named "Shields" accidentally: he has armored his heart, and that is why he can be so ruthless. Anyway, Douglas is brilliant in this scene, his intensity is unmatched, and one can see and feel the emotional depths he reached on a personal level. Turner follows hard-upon with her own, super-intense loss of control while careening down a rain-drenched road. Some may see these scenes as soap opera histrionics, but to me, I felt that the actors were able to portray people just breaking apart from the inside, and in a very genuine way. I found Shields to be still sympathetic until the scene where Dick Powell finds out Shields sent his distracting wife on a fatal excursion with Gaucho (NOT to have an affair, in my opinion, just to get her out of the way). He tells Powell he is better off without his wife, he should be thankful she is dead so he can do his work without her to interrupt. In this scene, Shields proves disgustingly, irredeemably heartless, as he presumes everyone else should see love as a liability, just as he does. In the end, none of the characters has ANY reason or motivation to be the slightest bit interested in Shields' proposition, and I think the last shot where they huddle around the phone is just emotionally false. I think they ought to have just kept walking, and maybe we needed a shot of Shields' face registering the weight of his irredeemable actions. And why, pray tell, was Walter Pidgeon in the role of pimp for Shields?  I think it would have been interesting to have Shields himself in this role, pitching the project, and saying, "You all owe it to me despite what I did to you". I think the LACK of Shields in this personal role hurts the film somewhat. No matter. This is still a great film, with a great script, and great performances. I wonder what fims/actors got the Oscars instead? Non Sans Droit!