What can be said about this classic that HASN'T been said? This send-up of Universal's horror superstars revived interest in the genre, which had been waning throughout the mid-forties, as endless low-budget sequels made the rounds. Horror purists were appalled that these classic characters became 'straight men' to Lou Costello, but this was actually an inspired mating! The rotund comedian had always represented the 'everyman', and seeing his reactions to these 'boogie men' was the perfect tonic to a post-war America, who needed a good laugh! What many people don't realize is that this film 'saved' A &amp; C's careers, as well; they had gone into a slump with the end of WWII, and were contemplating breaking up; the release of '...Meet Frankenstein' rejuvenated their popularity, and added 10 years to the team!
The film marked Lugosi's last 'official' appearance as Dracula, and he played the Count with the same jaded European elegance that no other actor ever matched! By the way, Dracula never sucked any blood in this movie, a concession to the younger A&amp;C audiences. He controled via his hypnotic stare, and telepathy! 
Lon Chaney's Wolfman has always been a favorite of mine, as he was the most humane of monsters; more a victim than a villain, he struggles to protect others from his full-moon transformation. Chaney was one of Hollywood's least-appreciated actors, a performer of considerable skill who would always have to live under his famous father's shadow, much as Larry Talbot lived under the shadow of the wolf. A piece of trivia: Glenn Strange, who portrayed the Frankenstein monster, broke his foot during the chase finale; to finish the shoot, Chaney donned the make-up, and can be seen as the monster in a few long shots. So Lon Chaney could say he was the only actor who ever portrayed the Wolfman, Dracula, AND the Frankenstein monster!
Watch for Vincent Price's famous unbilled cameo, at the end of the film! He was a frequent visitor to the set during filming, saw how much fun everyone was having, and nearly begged for a chance to make an 'appearance'! 
I hope these comments are helpful in making 'Abbott and Costello Meets Frankenstein' even MORE enjoyable! It has been a personal favorite for nearly forty years (I first saw it, at eight, at a Halloween party!), and it's a classic I think you'll treasure, too!