Okay, first lets get through the hard part...I am a 37 year old man and I love Scooby Doo. There, I said it.

Being a Scooby Dooby, I enjoyed this movie, as I have all of the direct to DVD/Video movies that have come out. I also enjoyed the live action movies, including the direct to DVD one released last Fall.
I also thoroughly enjoyed the "What's New, Scooby Doo?" Series. I thought it was better than the classic 1969 "Scooby Doo Where Are You?" series (there's something about the 1960-esque songs of "sunlight and flowers" in the 1969 series that rub me the wrong way)

 I have a crush on Daphne Blake. Sad. Yet, true. Man, what does that woman do to keep her youthful appearance? Find out what she uses and market it!

  This latest Scooby adventure is a magical (literally and figuratively) tale, where the gang gets to see, for the first time in a long time, Velma's Sister, Madelyn. Man that girl is high on Shaggy, isnt she?

  Anyhoo, the gang confronts the legendary, feared throughout the ages, Gryphon (also spelled "Griffin" depending on who is spelling it) a spine tingling monster that is half man-eating bird, and half lion.

  It is classic Scooby Doo. And what is great about Scooby Doo shows and movies is their familiarity....they never really change....drastically. And that is part of their appeal...you know what you're getting when you watch a Scooby Doo cartoon/movie: Fun, Scooby snacks,laughs, "Zoinks", "Jinkies", "Run Raggy...Rits a Ronster", etc, spooky monsters, and the ever-hungry Scooby Doo and Shaggy, always looking to go on a "Burger Binge", as long as they do it TOGETHER. I think it is touching to see these two best pals always sticking together through thick and thin. They love each other...a guy and his four legged best pal. That is awesome and sets a great example for kids to treat their four-legged friends as their best pals, and to stick together through thick and thin.

  Many have commented on the "shadowy" difference in this movie, and the "non whites" of the eyes. Personally, I prefer it without the shadows, because it's kind of distracting to look at the shadows. And I prefer to see the whites of the eyes...it gives the characters a soul. But as mentioned earlier, Scooby Doo never really changes....drastically, and that is what is great. These shows are like a familiar friend, or a familiar street, or a familiar favorite store, and that familiarity is comforting in this ever changing world.

 I hated the eyes in "Scooby Doo and Shaggy Get a Clue". It took away the Scooby and Shaggy we all know and love.
 But except for that rare instance, these characters stay the same: Scooby and Shaggy are still best pals. Daphne is still hot. Fred is still...well...Fred. Velma still masters rocket science, and they are all still one happy family.....a bunch of kids and a dog who are the wrenches in the machinery of the criminals. They are the good guys who save the day and have spooky fun doing it.

  The shows are a nice escape from religion, politics, and the store owner who just got held up.

  I hope that there will be many more of these direct to DVD movies.....keep 'em coming, and we scooby doobies will keep on coming back to the friends that we all feel like we know: Mystery Inc.

  Those meddling kids, and that dog.

P.S. Rumor has it, Cartoon Network is working on a new Scooby Doo cartoon series and a sequel to the live action film, released last Fall.

  Hopefully more direct to DVD movies are in store too.

  Scoooooby Doooooooooby Doooooooooo!