(sigh) OK, I have to admit that I paid the $7.50 to see it at the theatre. It's not the worst movie I've ever paid to see (Battlefield Earth takes that prize), but it comes really, really close.

It's sad when Christians feel they have to support such a bad movie because the "message" jives with what they believe. Don't get me wrong. I'm not bashing the message. I don't agree with it, but that doesn't mean I don't think it deserves to be seen and heard. Goodness knows there's room for more positive portrayals of Christianity and moral values in movies.

However, supporting bad films with good messages is only going to encourage more bad films. Support what you like in a movie--the positive story, the lack of gore, the lack of language--that's fine. But don't lower your standards just because you're desperate for good movies. Bad writing is bad writing--whether it's porn, a head-bashing action flick, an off-color comedy, or a Christian-friendly film. Bad acting (and Casper Van Dien may be bad acting's poster child) can mess up the best of movies--to say nothing about a film with weak plotting and writing to begin with. Please, please, PLEASE stop supporting trash just because it happens to fit your worldview. If you want your views better represented, demand more--demand better. Don't settle.

[And, I'm off my soapbox now]

A movie with (I'm guessing here) about a five-million dollar budget should NOT try for big explosions. The special effects look like an episode of something off the Sci-Fi Channel, and that only takes away from any story the movie might be trying to tell.

As for the story itself. It's sloppy, it's pretentious, and it doesn't make sense. I've read the Bible and enough Christian books (including end-times literature), to understand what's going on. I can't even imagine having to sit through the movie without that background. As it is, this is a weird mix of Christian pre-millienialism and pseudo-kabbalistic jibberish. There are better movies out there. Don't waste your time with this one.