Okay, this is important, really important:

1. If you possess a romantic bone in your body and you haven't seen Cinema Paradiso, you absolutely need to.  It is, for many of us, one of the most beautifully romantic films ever made.  A love story - and also a love letter to the magic of movies - it possesses a romantic grandeur which encompasses in its great sweep of a tale love, joy, pathos, the exhilaration of youth, and a good deal of melancholic nostalgia.  You'll laugh, you'll cry... and you'll absolutely fall in love with the last scene, which is one of the most wonderful endings to a film ever.

BUT

2. If you *haven't* seen the film before, PLEASE watch the original version first.  Trust me on this... first impressions are really important, and if you watch the "new" 3-hour version first you'll never be able to enjoy the original as you would have if you'd been new to the story.

Why do I say this?  Two reasons.  First, the new version adds 51 minutes, mostly towards the end, and in doing so takes what was a pretty much perfect film and transmutes it into something that is diluted and at times more mundane.  Second and more significantly, the additional footage "explains" what actually happened between Salvatore (the central character) and the love of his life, a girl named Elena who in the original version disappears after her parents (who disapprove of the romance) leave the area.  Why is this bad?  Well, some will argue that it's not... but for me, the "true" story (the one you didn't get in the original version), by dispelling the mystery, significantly weakens the romance.  A girl who disappears and leaves her lover forever wondering and cherishing her memory is poignant but crushingly romantic in its perpetual mystery; a film that reunites the two characters in middle age and reveals a sad twist to their story is - again, for me at least - a lot less magical.

The additional parts in the new version come across rather like a sequel to the original that demystifies and drags down the brilliance of the original story.

As i said, others may disagree, and if you're one of those people who loves this new version and what it reveals, more power to you.  But if you've never seen Cinema Paradiso, see the original first, and immerse yourself in this gloriously romantic film, which also features one of the most beautiful of soundtracks (by Ennio Morricone).  Then, if you want, see the longer version and decide for yourself.  You'll certainly have some lingering questions answered, but you may well find yourself wishing that you hadn't.