"...And justice for all" is a sometimes accurate, sometimes goofy portrayal of the American justice system.  Sometimes movies that portray the law concentrate on one lawyer and the one case that he must win.  With this movie, Pacino's character (Arthur Kirkland) is swamped with case after case, which is closer to the reality of how a small practice operates.  Pacino's character in this movie is described as idealistic, but like many real-life lawyers his idealism is tempered by a healthy dose of skepticism.  The Arthur Kirkland that chides his friend that "We are dealing with real people HERE" is the same lawyer that will not refuse to turn down an accused judge's case because if he does the ethics board will go after him.  An interesting supporting cast complements Pacino here, with Lee Strasberg as Pacino's aging grandfather and Dominic Chianese as one of Pacino's more interesting clients.  In this way, "And justice for all" acts as sort of a "Godfather: Part II" reunion with both Strasberg and Chianese playing key supporting roles.  Viewing this movie in the early 21st century may be difficult, because the music seems so dated.  The background music is more suited to a early 80's sitcom then a serious movie that wants to examine the legal system.  Pacino's law partner is played by Jeffrey Tambor, who loses his sanity after finding out that a defendant that he got off for murder has killed again.  In a hilarious scene, Tambor begins throwing plates in the halls of the courtroom.  Pacino defends his friend saying that he just needs to be given some time to calm down.  Whether Pacino believes that or not is another question, but it turns out to be true, as the very end of the movie shows.  During the course of the movie, Pacino is thrown in prison for contempt, has to deal with a suicidal judge and defend a guilty judge and contend with the various problems of running a small firm.  All these aspects bear down on him as he delivers one of the most memorable, if ineffective, opening statements in legal film history.  One of the major complaints of this movie is that it does not seem to have a flow or logic to it, but it actually consists of more a collection of snapshots about how the legal system has run amok.  The closing scene changes all this and ties it together with Pacino's character delivering an impassioned jeremiad against the legal process.  Pacino is always his best when delivering long impassioned speeches.  In fact, it won him an Oscar in "Scent of a Woman" and here he does the same.  Overall, this movie is a good representation of our legal system, but do not be disappointed with the more goofier aspects of the movie.  This proves that the movie doesn't take itself that serious, but the question that the movie poses is: does the legal system take itself seriously enough?