There's a tendency of the customer reviews of any item to be mostly adoring fan accolades, or else a few bitter pans by the disappointed.  Everyone else never even ends up at the DVD's page at all.
This film is a very close remake of the great classic "The Seven Samurai" by Akira Kurosawa (also available on DVD from Amazon).
I noticed that most of the long, elaborate reviews don't even mention this, and most of the story elements that they praise are actually also found in the original.
For the most part, this remake adds very little to the original.  The acting here is mostly wooden, although that seems to be the norm for Westerns.  Most of the more complex material, such as the relationship between the village girl and the samurai (gunslinger), has been removed for the Hollywood remake, leaving just a smattering of philosophical mutterings about the difference between being a gunslinger and a farmer.
For the first two-thirds of the film, it follows very closely the story line of the original.  But then, when it begins to diverge - in order to shorten the story and simplify it for a wider audience - the carefully constructed plausibility of the original is lost, and we end up with a completely implausible ending, both in terms of motivation, and in terms of tactics and strategy.
The original "Seven Samurai" goes to great lengths to create a plausible scenario of how seven men could have a chance at defending a village against 40 bandits.  In typical Hollywood fashion, this is thrown out in favor of the typical nonsense whereby protagonists can shoot and kill all bad guys without aiming, whereas bad guys can never hit anything, no matter how many hundreds of times they shoot.
The lengths gone to accomodate Western stereotypes hit a peak, when in a very poor village with open-air rooms and few walls, when our heroes are attacked, they find themselves in a house with glass windows - since it is obviously required that gunslingers must knock out a window in order to shoot back!  Of course, to ship these windows thousand of miles would have cost more than the worth of the whole village....
I suppose plausibility has never been a feature of most Westerners, but I have to be dismayed with how the careful construction of the original film has been dispensed with in this remake.
Nevertheless, I give this film 3 stars because it is well made, and those who love Westerns will certainly want to see it.
But those who are more wide ranging film fans are advised to instead rent or buy the original "The Seven Samurai" by Akira Kurosawa.
PS  Other films inspired by The Seven Samurai, include "Battle Beyond The Stars" where this story is mixed with the Star Wars story (and Robert Vaughn reprises his Magnificent Seven role);  "A Bug's Life" where ant villagers are attacked by grasshopper bandits, and the classic Hindi film "Sholay" (starring the world's most famous actor Amitabh) where only two gunslingers defend the villagers from the bandits.