I first saw this film when it came out in Britain, having only left a British public school three years before. At the time it seemed almost like a blend of documentary and wish-fulfillment fantasy. As a more of less contemporaneous movie to The Graduate and Last Summer, it is amazing how all serious British movies at the time had a melancholy and cynicism which was lacking in US ones. At that time, Britain had not yet fully recovered from either World War (even today in Britain, mention of WWI or WWII conjures up images in people's minds far stronger than for Americans). This movie was, I believe shot at Cheltenham Boys College, a school I considered going to in the town where I was born, and which my school played at Rugby and Cricket. There were two Britains at the time - the Upper-Middle class one of single-sex boarding schools, with twice a day church services, Rugby, and cold showers. We called Rugby "football," and the other kind was "Soccer."  Inhabitants were securely confident that they would rule the world (Frederic Raphael's "The Glittering Prizes" offers another look at the privileged at Cambridge University in 1956). The other world was a blue collar world where the education system even had different exams, attending soccer games and going down to the pub was typical.

If is a metaphor of sorts, but only because the real environment of the British public school was so applicable to real life. Abu Graib becomes explainable when you see what happens when you give older boys so much power over slightly younger ones. Discipline of this kind was maintained by older boys, much as NCOs in an army maintain it.

I believe that the boarding school of today has changed a lot. I am glad, as how can anyone feel nostalgic over something which was hated so much. However, the film is quite amazing. I do think you will get more out of it if you know something about the environment. Reading "Tom Brown's Schooldays," set in a public school in the 1830s is good preparation.