I have watched GT season 1 and it is okay to good. It's a pity that Gohan has to be a bit boring and wearing a suit (thanks to his mother's influence when he was a child) & Chi Chi has changed alot from keeping her sons away from danger to supporting them to go into outer space.
After learning of the Tuffles and the Saiyans from King Kai from DBZ Season 1, I thought they both lived on the same planet and renamed it Planet Vegeta when the Tuffles were wiped out.
I certainly like the Baby saga especially when Baby Gohan fights Vegeta and grinds Vegeta's face into the road. There are a few good family moments like when Vegeta drives Bulla shopping and when Vegeta wants others to notice he shaved his moustache off.
It is good to see Vegeta has dropped the tough,arrogant attitude and become alot calmer and not often he flies into a rage. Piccolo doesn't get much of a part and it is sad to see Majin Buu go. I think it is a good way to have Buu merge with Uub instead of getting rid of Buu completely. Majin Buu's high pitched voice and innocent child like personality will be missed.
Trunks & Goten's character designs look different to the ones seen in the DBZ episode "Granddaughter Pan". They look & act a bit goofy sometimes. Vegeta is another character who looks different, in a bad way.

In the booklet, why isn't Goten,Gohan & Vegeta in the Hero section. They should of been there!

But the Black Star dragon ball saga is probably the dullest saga of all but the story of Planet Luud does fit in with the Planet M2 and Baby episodes. Maybe the trio could have gone to one of Freiza's old home planets that he took over before he was killed and fought the army that was still there to recover the dragonball. I did like the fight between Goku and General Rilldo. Also I liked General Rilldo as a character. Also there is a new type of Ginyu Force on Planet M2. They are sadly robots and not aliens but they call themselves the Sigma Force.
I think having SS4 Goku on the front cover shot is a good idea even though this transformation appears in the last few seconds of the last episode of Season 1. Other characters who would have been good to have on the front are Pan or Majuub.

It is a great idea that they fitted the 34 episodes onto 5 discs. They should have made that rule for some of the DBZ seasons which were under 30 episodes.
The thing with GT is that they only made 64 episodes and most storylines are resolved in a few episodes. Whereas in DBZ most storylines are dragged out for 15 to 20 episodes.
When you watch GT, you can't help thinking that something is missing.