The movie plays out like a twisted nightmare, and about halfway through, it becomes all too real.  Although I thought the movie was VERY good, what brought to the point where I am writing an online review for it was how the  country has been pointing its fingure at this movie for every murder aired  live on CNN.  I am even more pissed off with the fact that most of those  doing the pointing haven't even seen the movie.  The film is 100% original.  It, for the first time, criticises our present culture and our obsession  with violence.  Sure the film is overblown and surreal, but that is the  very nature of satire.  Violence scares and entertains us at the same time,  and that fact, shown so brilliantly in this film, is more disturbing than  any of the violent images it depicts.  This film is very important to see  with a group or friend because it MUST be discussed and thought upon.  Everyone should be talking about what this film says and stands for.  What  is the line drawn between entertainment and journalism, embellishment and  truth, life and death?  Pretty heady stuff for a comedy, but it is one of  the greatest satires ever made.  What kept our eyes glued to CNN during the  Columbine crisis?  Why did we have to watch that?  Why did those kids do  that in the first place?  Was it because of the movie? No. My guess is that  it was for attention, to go out with a bang, to release their anger to and  in front of the world,to say in the loudest way possible: "Here I  am!" This wouldn't be possible if there weren't millions glued to  their TVs as it happened live.  They succeeded in every way. The same  station that will show a clip of Natural Born Killers and say "there's  the culprit!" will turn around and show that clip of the wounded young  man escaping through a window (the clip with the most suspence and blood)  at the top of every hour.  Natural Born Killers shoves this in our face and  says "Just look at yourself.  See how awefull this is?  But you're  laughing at it!  See how easy it is for me, Oliver Stone, to make you laugh  at it?  But how much gore does it take to disturb fnally disgust you?  To  shake you into not being entertained any more?"  Our culture is  tragicly comical, and so is the movie.  The final scene is brilliant and  places everything together.  What's the point that we'll finally reach with  our fascination and obsession with violence?  The film shows us a very  likely scenario, and it is scary and ironic.  The film tells us how little  we think about what we see, and ironically, that's what caused this movie  so many problems.  The movie was terrifying and hilarious, and honestly, I  don't really want to watch it over and over again.  I would never buy it.  But, by all means, see it.  Oh, and one other thing, the direction and  filming of this movie is beautiful and brilliant.