Fans of the original 1999 <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00005UF7O">Bangkok Dangerous</a> will probably dislike this film. If you've never seen the original, superior film, you really should; it's a great movie. Better on so many levels that there is really no comparison between the two except the basics of the plot, the setting, and the character names. Admittedly this review is influenced by my like of the original, but remember that all reviews are opinion, and if you disagree with me, don't take it personally.

The story of a tired hit man who needs just 'one more job' to retire permanently from the business of permanently retiring people has been done many times before. In this version of that storyline, BANGKOK DANGEROUS, the hit-man Joe is played by Nicholas Cage. Joe travels to Thailand where he has four 'jobs,' to complete. Although bedraggled and looking like he needs a hug, Joe proves ruthlessly efficient. After learning that the last 'job,' is a lot more than what he bargained for, Joe is forced to make tough choices about how he will respond, and what the consequences will be for himself, his protege, and the entire nation of Thailand.

Cage is suitable for the part and grinds his way through this one with a sullenness that fits his character, even if the battered, world-wise assassin has become a cliche. The real issue here is that unlike the original, he is not deaf nor mute. Those attributes have instead been given to his love interest in what I can only assume was the director's desire to 'get their money's worth' out of Cage.

What made the original BANGKOK DANGEROUS so good was the that the protagonist was a remarkably interesting character, free from typical hit-man cliches, as well as the fantastic visuals of a seedy, very un-western Bangkok. Both of those elements have been glamorized and reduced to stereotypes in this adaptation. Bangkok from the original to this one seems a different city entirely, more glitzy than gritty, an Americanized version that has lost its exotic appeal.

As harmful as these changes are, there are still some great moments in this version. There are several top-notch action sequences including some awesome hand-to-hand combat scenes that have learned a thing or two from the Bourne movies. The relationship between Cage's character and the streetwise Thai man Kong (Shahkrit Yamnarm) he hires as his local help is at times very well done and surprisingly believable. The films best moments are centered around this relationship and the psychological shifts that Joe's character must make in response to his growing relationship with Kong.

2.5/5 stars. I suggest renting this alongside the original and watching them both. Chances are you will agree with me that the original is a much better movie.