Dancer in the Dark is a sad, but beautiful comparison of the basic difference between strong and weak people, and the resulting tragedy when circumstances throw them together.  Selma, the single-mindedly devoted mother, is as desperate for money as Bill, the police officer who is her landlord and friend.  But their motivations are vastly different.  Selma works long and hard, racing against her eventual blindness to earn enough money to allow her son to have a preventative operation that will save his sight.  She must deny herself and her son many material things in the process, but to spare her son from the stress she faces, she resists explaining why she cannot even buy him birthday presents.  Bill, on the other hand, has allowed his spoiled wife, Linda, to overspend to the point that he has exhausted his inheritance and fallen deeply into debt.  Yet he lacks the strength to deny his wife in any way, or even to admit that he can no longer support her every whim.
The greatest triumph in the depiction of these characters is a skillful step away from all-good/all-evil typecasting.  In the beginning, Bill and Linda do some genuinely good things for Selma and her son.  Bill's incomprehensible decisions are made out of a weak attempt at self-protection, not outright ill-will.  And even Selma makes questionable choices (and, yes, mistakes).  However, even in the worst circumstances, she is never distracted from what is important, following it through regardless of the cost.  While Bill victimizes others to protect his own image, Selma protects even those who do not deserve protection by remaining true to herself and to her promises.  The result is tragic, but it is the only result that could possibly be reached by these characters.  The effect is beautifully accented by Bjork's natural charm and excellent musicianship, as well as a strong international cast (including Catherine Deneuve, Udo Kier, David Morse, and Joel Grey). 
By yanking the formula of musicals out of the entertainment realm and injecting it into a story with real conflict and pain, the result is a musical with incredible power.