I figure over that last 6 years I must have spent over $100 in rental and late fees on this jem, so why not own it? Just picked up a fresh copy and it's worth every cent. Cant wait for the DVD. Might need an extra DVD  player dedicated to VOTD!  My favorite movie of all time! Some interesting  trivia....
The final straw in Judy Garland's firing came after her  inability to get HELEN LAWSON MEAN in the opening scene with Annie. I guess  that she couldn't pull off the WHO THE HELL ARE YOU? line with much  authority. They needed about 20 takes and it still didn't work. I heard  Patty Duke on E! recently and she said that poor Judy probably could have  pulled it off, but I really think that Hayward was better for the role.  
The I'LL BUILD MY OWN TREE number is one of the great moments in film.  The song sounds like it was written for Judy, so to distract the viewers  from the horrible lip sync by Susan Hayward (it was Margaret Whiting's  voice), the set designer fabricated that mammoth mobile from recycled stop  lights. Urban myth? No.
The film premered on a chartered cruise ship off  Florida. After horrible word of mouth by the onboard press, Jackie S. took  to her cabin and downed a few extra dolls. They just didn't get  it! 
Watch the trailer and notice the difference in the famous ladies'  lounge scene. In the trailer, Susan Lawson says, Get out of my way, I got a  GUY waiting for me!, but in the movie she says MAN.
Tony Scotti and his  brother were the agents for teen idol Lief Garrett. Or was it Leif? I guess  poor Tony couldn't sustain his own record career with COME LIVE WITH  ME.
Film critic Roger Ebert co-wrote the screenplay for BEYOND THE VALLEY  OF THE DOLLS, and was forced to add a disclaimer at the beginning stating  that there was no connection between the two films. As for Beyond, see it  once for Eddie Williams and the party scene with the Strawberry Alarm  Clock. Sorry, Roger. It's a shame that it took until '93 for VALLEY to hit  video, we all need to write our congressmen to get it out on DVD! We  finally got local channels on DIRECTV, now let's march on Washington to get  this treasure on DVD! Jack Valenti, where are you?