We're told right up front the premise - like other countries and cultures, the United States too has  a magical wish granting creature.  We're a newer country so less people have met our guy - the aptly names O.W. Grant.  Oh and he does seem to primarily hang out on an Interstate that doesn't exist.

Neal happens upon our not so mythological wish granter on his birthday just after blowing out the candles.  Mr. Grant informs him that you ARE supposed to tell people what you've wished for - the other thing that we've all heard, that's just an old wives tale.  Well he figures why not and spills the beans to his family and O.W. (a waiter at the restaurant).  Neal has wished for an answer.

Next thing he knows he's landed a mystery job, needs to find that mysterious highway, is looking for the girl of his dreams (also a mystery to him), is meeting characters he could have only dreamed of in situations no one would ever believe if he dared to recount them.  Will he find the girl?  Complete the job?  Live through the adventure?  Find the answer?  Is always having the answers even a good thing?

It's definitely a low-budget indie movie.  I actually like those types of movies so I didn't mind that.  But even as I was watching I wasn't thinking indie movie.  Instead it felt like a early pilot for a cable network tv show.  I don't mean that as an insult, believe it or not.  It just feels like this whole thing really was better suited as an ongoing tv show and this was meant to be the early first episodes, the ones you would have thought were really cool at first - until later in the series when you looked back and thought "wow after they got the hang of what they were doing here they really improved".  It's the realization that 'oh yeah, it's just a movie' that somehow makes it a 4 star instead of 5.  That it just ends here and they won't keep going and improve it any.

Despite some of the cheesiness here and there.  Some of the acting that was less than stellar (forgivable somehow).  It works in the end.  And the end really was the cheesiest part of it.  It just feels as I said, like it's not supposed to be a movie, but a show.  Still, hey, they got Michael J. Fox and Christopher Lloyd both to appear.  Gary Oldman plays O.W. Grant brilliantly.

And as with any wish themed show - be careful what you wish for.  Oh also be on the lookout for a man with Pee-Wee Herman's stylist who smokes from a monkey pipe.  He's sneaky.