I cannot say much more than what anybody else has said already. I avoided the movie in the theatre because it didn't seem like it would be much: A superficial movie with a gimmick. - Upon renting and watching it, I was pleasantly surprised. I liked this movie all the way through. I was very moved. Mesmerized. I found one reviewer that thought this movie was terrible. I disagree - but it only goes to show that everyone sees things differently. I was able to suspend disbelief and go into the movie. 
Wonderful story; I rarely give any movie five stars. Although technology is not there yet, perhaps it will be some day, that didn't matter to me. To explain this movie is difficult. Yes, I can tell you the plot - but there is something special about it that is very difficult to explain. The one person who didn't like it - and I am sure there are others - seemed to have missed that specialness altogether. 
I didn't see it as being a comedy - although discussed by others in that vein. Al Pacino was great. I didn't find anyone, including him, flat. The way something artificial becomes a star accepted by everyone as a real person, the way even the movie director Viktor Taransky (Al Pacino) finds himself relating to her (as if he is relating to a part of himself, as if he is having a relationship with his creation), is interesting. It is a kind of a love story: Everyone in love with a fantasy.
Although not real, she has taken on a life of her own. I have heard of writers saying that about characters they have created. - And here, that is what happens to Taransky. This is about what happens to Taransky, and to everyone who grows to love a character that no matter what he tries to do - when it comes to a point that she is gaining recognition and not he - they still love her. 
I am not going to tell you where this all goes and how it ends: That's part of the enjoyment of this film. Will you like this film? If you can allow yourself to become immersed, yes. If you need to look at it and say the dialogue falls short, the acting is this, the storyline is not plausible, no - you probably won't enjoy it as much as I. 
When it comes to buying movies, I am very particular, and I don't know if I would buy it because I am more likely to buy very old films or special effects movies like Spider-man, Lord of the Rings, etc. So, it really depends on what kind of movies you like. Check it out, though.