I just watched THE WAGES OF FEAR on BLU-RAY and must admit though it was very good, I still don't see how people can say it was better than William Friedkin's 1977 SORCERER. Friedkin added all of the elements of WAGES into his film and more, such as: The dubius backgrounds of the four men who are trapped in the God-forsaken South American country, how they ended up there, and how they must now find a way out by any means possible, even if it's driving two broken-down trucks filled with unstable nitroglycerine across 218 miles of rugged terrain, not knowing who they can trust.

Their desperation leads us to understand why they would volunteer and accept this suicide mission; If they want their lives and loved ones back, THEY HAVE NO CHOICE BUT TO GO, a plot point that is lacking from THE WAGES OF FEAR.

Both films boast a great international cast, great location shooting, and tough, no-nonsense, tight, gritty direction from two great film directors who are themselves the stars of their films.

With THE WAGES OF FEAR you get:
A great intense original story, filmed in glorious black and white and presented in it's original  aspect ratio of 1.37:1, the standard at the time(1953), and presented by Criterion in pristine condition with plenty of extra's. You get real explosions (no special effects here), a white knuckle ride, Spectacular cleavage shots of the lovely Vera Clouzot, a shock ending, and you get to see Yves Montand go from French singing star, to leading man status all in one film due to Henri-Georges Clouzet's guidence and masterfull direction.

With SORCERER you get:
A great re-telling of a great story, told coldly, harshly, with real explosions (no special effects here), more intensity, more scope, more violence, color, Roy Scheider, Tangerine Dream, Mafia, Bandido's, a haunting ending, all by the man who brought you THE EXORCIST, THE FRENCH CONNECTION, and TO LIVE AND DIE IN L.A.. What's not to like?

Roger Ebert named SORCERER one of the ten best movies of 1977.

A BUDGET OF 22 MILLION, IT EARNED AN ESTIMATED 12 MILLION
This film had the unfortunate luck of being released less than one month after the first STAR WARS movie was released, while the country was still buzzing over ROCKY, which may have led to SORCERER's  box office disappointment.  Another reason was that many critics unfairly panned SORCERER probably because of Friedkin's audacity to recreate a classic (apparently a no-no at the time), which is funny in this day and age of remakes and re-imaginings. At any rate, this film is now much more accepted and appreciated among critics, garnering an 80 percent approval rating at ROTTENTOMATOES.COM.

WIDESCREEN/ FULLSCREEN
My problem is that SORCERER was filmed (according to the Internet Movie Database) in the aspect ratio of 1.85:1 and NOT the 1.33:1 pan & scan DVD version available today. As of this date (June of 2010) HIGH-DEF DIGEST has listed SORCERER on their docket of films to be released on Blu-Ray, however, they give no date, or even year, so, I will continue to wait patiently for the Blu-ray.

FYI; 2012 marks the 35 anniversary of SORCERER.

But if you want my opinion on which to buy; collect both. They're both great films. The Criterion edition of THE WAGES OF FEAR on Blu-Ray is excellent, but definatly wait for SORCERER to be released on Blu-Ray.

Finaly I just want to suggest, as of rule of thumb to ALL filmmakers who are seeing their films re-released in Blu-Ray, Do what you will to update your film, whether it be cropping, changing the aspect ratio, adding or deleting scenes, etc..., but alway's alway's ALWAY'S give us the original theatrical release as well. Yes it's that important, and I don't mind paying extra for a classic.
Thanks
COASO