I think if I had to choose a favorite Errol Flynn film, The Charge Of The Light Brigade might well be it. Flynn's great swashbucklers, Captain Blood, The Sea Hawk and The Adventures Of Robin Hood are all marvelous entertainments to be sure, yet The Charge Of The Light Brigade is darker in tone and more complex than these others, providing more of an emotional impact. As other reviewers have stated, the movie is not factual. But this is not a fault. On the contrary, the storyline by Michel Jacobs is one of its strengths. And though the film is not faithful to the actual historical events, it winds up being true to the spirit of Tennyson's poem.  The movie clearly states in the beginning that what we are about to see is fictional. So, it should be judged as a work of fiction and on its own merits. Those history buffs looking for historical accuracy might rather slog through the 1968 Tony Richardson version, but I'll stick with this one which Michael Curtiz made for Warner Brothers in 1936.

Each time I watch this film I see new things in it. In my last viewing it struck me how this film may be regarded as the story of a man who brought about a great tragedy by doing what seems to be the right thing: he saved another man's life. During a leopard hunt hosted by the Indian chieftain, Surat Khan (C. Henry Gordon), Flynn's character, Major Geoffrey Vickers, manages to shoot a leopard as it is about to pounce on Surat Khan, thus saving his life. Had Vickers not been so good a shot and the cat had killed its prey, the horrible massacre which Khan later perpetrates would not have happened, nor, for that matter, would occur the fateful suicidal charge into  the valley of Balaclava in the Crimea.

Vickers is a brave and resourceful soldier who is also politically savvy.  His assessment of each predicament that the British encounter  is shown to be sound, whereas that of his superiors are usually faulty. He knows his opponent,  Surat Khan, cannot be trusted. Yet as a soldier he must follow orders, and the British pay a heavy price for their leaders' misreading of their enemy. In a horrifying turn of events Surat Khan ends up mercilessly slaughtering an entire garrison, including women and children. A crime which is never forgotten by Vickers and the men in his regiment.

For all his prowess in military and political affairs, Vickers  misreads affairs of the heart. His fiance, Elsa (Olivia de Havilland), has fallen in love with his brother. At first, he believes it is only a one-sided infatuation on the part of his brother, Perry (Patric Knowles), but as the film continues, Elsa finally confesses her love for Perry.  All these events, compounded with the knowledge that Surat Khan, who has escaped India, is now with his Russian allies in the Crimea, leads Vickers' to finally disobey orders, and lead the Light Brigade on their climactic charge of retribution.

And what a charge it is. One of the greatest action sequences committed to celluloid. Beautifully shot and edited, with a marvelous score by Max Steiner, it is a rousing and satisfying climax to an already engrossing story. Errol Flynn is at his best in this movie, bringing to it all his dashing heroics, charm, and athleticism that you would expect. But as  Geoffrey Vickers, who has lost the woman he loves, who is haunted by  a war atrocity which could've been avoided, and who yearns for vengeance, Flynn proves just how capable an actor he truly was. He is flanked by a splendid supporting cast; in addition to those already mentioned: Donald Crisp, Henry Stephenson, Nigel Bruce, Spring Byington, and David Niven. The high quality of the acting and direction, the compelling story, lavish production values, action scenes, and musical score all make this a magnificent cinematic achievement from Hollywood's golden age.