The Vikings is an epic. Nearly every shot (by Jack Cardiff) could be painted and framed as artwork.The score by Mario Nascimbene is perfect in keeping with the drama, and tech and make up effects (Douglas' eye) are top notch. There are so many memorable scenes (I will go through a fair amount of them later in this text) the animated beginning (Richard's father created Fleischer studios and Betty Boop) with Welles' rich narration, Douglas climbing up the draw bridge are two that really stand out. Like the best epics, the film is crowd pleasing as well as idiosyncratic. Truly, it is in my top 25 of all time films. The Vikings, shot in Oslo, was described by Fleischer as extremely accurate in capturing the viking way of life. The film was researched with help from the head of the viking department at UCLA. Blueprints from sunken viking ships were used to create new ships. The small horses (also true to period) were borrowed from an Oslo zoo. Odin was the viking god of choice.
Details seen as incidental by some critics (because they did not move the plot), the tug of war rope fire, the running of the oars, the test for infidelity and the viking funeral imo go a long way toward capturing the accurate viking way of life and each scene stands out among the best scenes in the picture, particularly the funeral (fire, light, ritual and a sense of tragedy).

The plot heavy scenes are worthy as well: royalty, swords, double crosses, slaves, destiny and myth. It is worth noting that myth here, a nice change of pace from most epics, favors Odin (who can move see and fog with his will) and vikings over christain ideals (the Father is knocked down in sactuary). It all plays out like a rousing, colossal Prince Valiant work, a heroes journey but better than anything Joseph Cambell inspired (and there are parallels, the hero loses an arm, gets involved with a princess and is taken into hiding after being born of a queen and an evil man). Now, onto the acting. Princess Morgana (played by Janet Leigh) is duty bound to an old king and fated to be with a viking slave who happens to be a prince (will she have to convert to pagan?). For Einar (who views spitting as foreplay) she is an object of sexual conquest (even if Ragnar finds her too skinny). There is an odd but wonderful scene where Bridget (Morgana's maid) tells her not to think to harshly of Einar, "He can't help the way he acts....if it wasn't for those scars on his face, he's be rather nice looking." If Bridget preparing her for a rape? Whatever the case, Leigh has never been sexier than in the bodice scene. She does more than radiate sexuality though, giving each scene a quite intelligence and wonder, scared to be unprotected in the world yet smart enough to know when to give in and when to resist. Curtis (as Eric) is a quiet, serious hero (far removed from his Cary Grant mode), his best work until Fleischer's The Boston Strangler, played with enough lightness to sell the romance scenes and enough menace (consider the scene where he makes his intentions known to the king or he says to his falcon simply, "Kill.") to convincingly come out victorious. Douglas (far from his usual hero role) plays Einar as a force of nature with a justified ego, capable of great evil and darkness as well as mercy (saving a woman he is cheating with from an infidelity test and pausing so not to kill his brother). It is a hell of a showy role and Douglas plays it to the hilt. Top acting honors go to Ernest Borgnine, almost unrecognizable as Ragnar, king of the vikings. 5 years after playing Marty, Borgnine radiates enough wisdom, toughness and joy (for instance teasing his son, "They'll bite you all the more now that you are Einar one-eye.") to make you root for a whole group of pillagers. The scene where he jumps into the wolf pit, sword in hand ready to meet Odin, is one of my all-time favorites