Although this picture has had numerous home video releases over the years  from tape to laserdisc, this new DVD version is easily the best to date,  offering a crisp, clear, pristine wide screen transfer that looks like it  was filmed only hours ago, along with an excellent surround sound mix that  is far superior to any previous release, 70mm six track theatrical prints  included. The supplemental disc offers documentaries and enough extras to  satisfy any Sound of Music junkie. 
The feature disc offers an audio  commentary by director Robert Wise that is quite interesting and  informative, but repeats much of the same information included in the  documentary. Parts of it seem a bit rushed, perhaps because he doesn't  speak over any of the musical sequences, which are presented without vocals  to highlight the orchestral arrangements and allow one the opportunity to  sing along. Wise points out where songs that were deleted or moved would  have gone as compared to the original stage show, and one can see how such  changes made the film adaptation superior. He also explains the technical  aspects of shooting on location and how location shots were seamlessly  matched with footage shot back in L.A. on stages. There were also a couple  of scenes that were shot but later cut--it makes you wish they had included  these outtakes on the supplemental disc of extras. There are some gaps in  the commentary where only the movie plays--leaving you a bit hungry for  more interesting anecdotes from Mr. Wise, but after over 35 years I guess  his memory is as good as can be expected. 
The French audio track is  fun--How strange to hear the familiar songs in French--not an easy task to  translate a song like Do Re Mi which seems it wouldn't make sense in any  language other than English. They did an excellent dubbing job--the voices  are quite similar to the original actors' voices, and the woman dubbing for  Julie Andrews holds her own. 
The 35 minute audio spot by screenwriter  Ernest Lehman is extremely interesting, giving you a taste of what went on  behind the scenes in the development of the production, from William  Wyler's indifference to the film he agreed to direct despite hating the  Broadway show, and prospective director Gene Kelly kicking Mr. Lehman out  of his house and telling him to "shove" his screenplay. 
Actor  Dan Truhitte also provides an "audio telegram" detailing his  experience winning the part of Rolf and some personal anecdotes. But all we  hear is his voice--a still picture of his present-day self would have been  a nice touch. 
We also get some sound bytes of old radio interviews that  are typical PR fluff but still an interesting time capsule. The video of  theatrical trailers and TV spots is interesting but repetitive. They are  almost all the same, with only subtle changes. For those interested in the  location there is even a brief but detailed written history of Salzburg.  
All in all, this has to rate as one of the best and most complete DVDs  ever released (despite those missing outtakes!) Fox did a terrific job, and  should be commended for NOT offering the inferior pan and scan version of  the picture usually shown on TV. This is one of those wide screen  masterpieces that lose a lot when the original aspect ratio is altered. A  must for all film collectors and Sound of Music fanatics alike.