I guess I can tell everyone ahead of time that this will be a very bias review, seeing how I've been a Rush fanatic since 1979....That being said-this DVD is spectacular. A lot of time went into the production, and the results speak for themselves.
The sights and sounds of this Blu-ray disc are incredible! Every little detail of the concert stands out, and begs to be viewed..The cameras were placed in just the right areas to capture every detail of a live Rush show....not only do you get a bird's-eye view of the professionalism of the band, but you also get to see the humorous side of the band as well, mainly through Alex. His antics and facial expressions towards the end of the concert prove again that although Rush is a true professional band, with incredible musicians, they also learned to not take everything seriously as well.
The setlist is great, with Entre Nous making the setlist for the first time ever.  Circumstances was played live as well for the first time in many years, and sounds wonderful.  Of course you get the old radio favorites like "Tom Sawyer", "Freewill", and "The Spirit of Radio", but you get fan favorites as well including "Natural Science" (my favorite), "YYZ", "Passage to Bangkok", "Mission", "Between the Wheels", and many more.  These guys know how to put on a live show, and it really shows in magnificent detail in this DVD.  The only thing that I would change is the crowd...they went to Rotterdam to film this, when I believe they should have recorded the entire DVD in the United States(you do get four "bootlegged" songs from Atlana). The Rotterdam crowd seemed to be very subdued, and I think if it was done with an American crowd, you would have gotten a better view of what the typical Rush crowd was like at a show.  That being said...this DVD gets a "big thumbs up" from me, and should be a staple in any Rush fans video library. You ask "what do I have to compare it against"??? I saw this tour live 4 times, so it feels just like I was there again. And that is the best compliment a band can receive about a live recording that they've put out.....5 out of 5 stars!