Zakk Wylde is God on guitar and proves that he can do live just what he does on the Black Label Society albums.  I don't believe that there are any guitarists out there (or dare I say, ever) that can match the talent of Zakk Wylde.  Sure, there are guitar greats of the likes of Jimmy Hendrix, Eddie Van Halen, and most importantly, Randy Rhoads, but no axe slinger can shred quite like Zakk Wylde.  The music him, his guitar brother Nick Catanese, and the Black Label Society put together is nothing short of what rock and roll should be.  No flashy set, no flashy clothes, just music ... pure, adrenaline driven rock and roll.  If you have been longing for real rock, and loosing faith in the current state of rock and roll, then look no further.  Black Label Society delivers like NO other.
The DVD is amazing.  The energy of Zakk Wylde and the Black Label Society is unbelievable.  The songs are played spot-on and leave you wanting more.  On one track, Zakk takes the stage alone and gives out one of the greatest solos I have ever heard.  He is relentless in his performance; all you can do is watch with your jaw on the floor.  Also, for those patriotic rockers out there, Zakk performs the GREATEST Star Spangled Banner ever.  If you thought Jimmy Hendrix's version at Woodstock was amazing, and it was, don't get me wrong, but Zakk weaves in the Black Label style making it unmatched.
Amazingly, I haven't finished all the extras, but what I have seen are much enjoyed.  For the softies out there, there is home video footage of him playing his guitar and singing with his little daughter ... one of the cutest things ever.  There is also footage of Zakk and Nick Catanese rocking out on acoustic 6- and 12-string guitars ... it's great.  For true rockers, this is THE DVD to have.  You can't afford to be without this disk.  You will want to watch it over and over again.  Zakk Wylde and the Black Label Society have QUICKLY become my favorite band, and after you witness BLS through this DVD, you will see why.