I will always tell people that the Twilight books are MUCH better than the movies, but the movies are getting better and better.  I won't go through the movie ad nauseum, but rather tell you about the features that make the Blu-Ray/DVD combo great:

1)  I can watch the movie anywhere in the house.  We have a Blu-Ray player downstairs but not upstairs.  I'm stuck watching Twilight and New Moon on the cold leather sofa in the living room, but I can watch Eclipse upstairs in a warm comfy bed.  Bonus.

2)  I'm a dork for behind-the-scenes documentaries.  I love seeing how a movie is made, and the extra interviews you see with the cast and crew.  For the teenage girls who are Team Jacob, they even have special featurettes called "Taylor Time" where he's basically looking hot and doing adorable stuff, like catching grapes in his mouth and throwing a football over set trailers.  Good times.

3)  The extra and extended scenes are great, and honestly I don't understand or agree with the rationalization given for why they were cut.  Stephanie Meyer and Wyck Godfrey also discuss some of these cut scenes in their audio commentary.

4)  The audio commentary features are always enlightening, although they can be distracting if you're trying to pay attention to the movie.  I enjoyed the Stephanie Meyer/Wyck Godfrey commentary alot.  The Kristen Stewart/Rob Pattinson audio commentary, not so much.  Surprise!  If you are a younger fan, you may enjoy it alot more, but to me it felt like being the awkward third wheel on a date with them.  They are openly joking and flirting and I could only stand it for 5 minutes and had to turn it off.  I will definitely try it again soon, but I will have a bottle of wine nearby.

5)  Finally I LOVED that I didn't have to sit or fast forward through 3-4 movie trailers before getting to the DVD menu.

The two music videos are great (Metric's "I'm All Yours" and Muse's "Neutron Star Collision").  The photo slideshow is sorta silly, and I didn't use the feature where you can skip to your favorite scenes, so can't comment on that.  All in all, this was the best DVD set up so far of all the Twilight movies.