I didn't have high hopes for this movie when I first heard of it, thinking it would be just another over-done theme with too much action, tasteless "romance," and a worthlessly laughable villain.

I was very wrong.

This movie not only made me want to watch the original, but I bought the DVD after renting it once. The actors in it were sublime (as if having actors from TRON wasn't good enough, there's a Cillian cameo that I LOVED, being a huge fan of his work), and the set-up for it was surprisingly well done. The plot was easy to follow, but not completely predictable, and the ending was satisfying enough to not make me nervous but cut just right that I wouldn't shun the idea of a third movie in this series. The soundtrack was amazing, and kept me engaged. There was enough action to appease my dad, but not so much as to put me off. There was a hint of romance in it, but it was subtle and innocent. The progression of the movie is believable, and I love Sam because he looks/acts like one of the my book characters! Comedy was well-placed, and the dialogue for Kevin Flynn was especially amusing.

The protagonist was believable, and the antagonist surprisingly understandable while still being exceptionally evil. As a writer, this was an extreme plus for me -- also, I have been royally disappointed by most protagonists and antagonists that Disney has given us in recent years. It felt very deep to me, not having the one-dimensional feel that most movies have. It felt like things were happening that we couldn't see, like the Grid was a complete world and not just a setting for a guaranteed victory -- or a victory at all, necessarily.

The effects of this movie were amazing. The light cycles and suits in it make me very jealous of the people working on this film! All of it hints to a hidden depth that makes me want to watch it until I understand more. ;)

Watched this with a bunch of kids between the ages of 8-13 -- as well as a few adults -- just the other night and every one of them absolutely loved it. As I've said before, my father also enjoyed it, and he tends to only be interested in war films such as Kingdom of Heaven or epic fantasies like Lord of the Rings. We'll definitely be recommending this movie to others. :D