This a great film that is well-edited, Brilliantly scored and masterfully acted. And now, a basic overview of the film:

The music-AMAZING. Perfectly matching the film's fast-paced caper nature, the best 2 songs in the film are "F***ing in the Bushes" by Oasis, played in the final fight scene of the film and "Diamond" by Klint. This song is played in the menu screen and in the character introduction sequence in the film.

The Editing- Crafty and sleek, smooth and mixed. The two best scenes in which Guy Ritchie's imagination is set free are in the character introduction sequence, where each character is shown doing something which blends into the next. For example, when a character named Mickey (played very well by Brad Pitt) picks up a jewelry bag, he is shown throwing it and in a quick change of scenery, another character, Vinny, is shown catching it. The other scene in which the editing is brilliant is in the final bare-knuckle boxing match at the end of the film. The impact of each punch is shown and the sequence switches from fast-motion to slow motion to regular, somehow keeping it from becoming confusing.

The characters- One of the main things I love about this film is the many different unique characters, all of which are introduced in the beginning of the film. The main characters are...

Brick Top- A ruthless gangster whos favorite means of dispatch involves feeding the dead to pigs, (not that gross in the film). As the main enemy in the film, he is the perpetrator of many of the problems that the characters face in the film.

Bullet-Tooth Tony- A bounty-hunter/killer/convincing intimidator for hire who is not all as bad as he sounds. A hilarious character played brilliantly by Vinnie Jones. In a comic twist, this character was shot 6 times in one sitting and had the bullets molded into gold and put in as fillings in his teeth. A very intimidating and funny character who adds to the film greatly.

Vinny & Sol- Two very funny jewelry store owners who are hired by Boris the Blade(mentioned later) to rob Brick Top's illegal bookies. The robbery goes terribly and hilariously wrong. These two sarcastic and teasing characters are a pair of idiots who somehow become mixed up into the story.

Tyrone- Vinny & Sol's hired getaway driver who isn't much of a driver at all. The sequence in which it takes him forever to get out of the car makes me laugh hysterically every time.

Boris the Blade- Otherwise known as Boris the Bullet-dodger. An impossible to kill, sneeky and devious weapon-selling russian who hires Vinny & Sol to rob Brick Top's bookies and steal the diamond which started all the mayhem from Franky Four-Fingers(mentioned later).

Franky Four-Fingers- The gambling-obsessed thief who steals the diamond that starts the mayhem.

Turkish and Tommy- Turkish is a boxing promoter who works for Brick Top, against his will, and Tommy is his trouble-prone partner.

Mickey- My personal favorite character, Mickey is a gypsy bare-knuckle boxing champion who is barely understandable throughout the movie but is still very important to the plot.

The plot- Although very confusing to explain, the plot is simply a loy of mayhem coming from one stolen diamond. Believe me, it's better than it sounds.

A well-made and brilliant film that is a must-see for film-lovers everywhere.
Post your opinion please.