This is the kind of film that DVD was made for.  Beautiful, breathtaking and brilliant, "Apocalypse Now" shattered any doubts we had about the  insanity of Vietnam and continues to do so until this very day.  Quite  simply, one of the greatest war films of all time, comparable to "Platoon"  and "Saving Private Ryan".
This modern day take of Joseph Conrad's  brilliant book "Heart of Darkness" shows us Francis Ford Coppola's vision  of hell.  A time and place in the world where insanity seems unable to be  measured and where scenes of violence and mayhem play like pieces of  classical music they seem so beautiful.  Where one man, who attacks a  particular town for great surfing, is considered sane, while another, who  kills a few people, is deemed insane.  And by who? The army.  Why?  Because  one's insanity helps the army, while the others doesn't.  The film is  terrifying, exciting, satiric and thought provoking all at once.  It takes  all sorts of elements of war (insanity, violence), plus absolutely  beautiful imagery and throws it all into a pot until it seems so overloaded  it will explode.  Only one part of the film fails to deliver and that is  the slow, murky part where Willard listens to Kurtz in his compound but the  rest of the film more than makes up for it.
The story is about a Captain  Willard (Sheen) who is sent up a river in Vietnam to kill a Kernel Kurtz  who has gone insane and is controlling his own, unauthorized city in  Cambodia.  The film centers on Willard and his thoughts and views on the  whole mission.  He is in a boat with four other men, although most of them  are just kids.  Along their journey they go through many situations  including a helicopter assault on a town, a battle which seems to be in the  middle of no where ("Get the Roach!") and various assaults on their boat.  When they finally reach Kurtz's compound Willard is forced to decide  whether or not to kill the man he has grown to respect along the  journey.
The acting in this movie is among the best ever, with Robert  Duvall as Killgore being the best in the movie.  His character perfectly  sums up the whole war.  He is obviously insane but the insanity is useful  to the army.  In the greatest scene in the movie he attacks a Vietnamese  village with helicopters and the main reason: the beach there has six-foot  high peaks that go both ways; perfect for surfing.  He blares Wagner from  the choppers as they attack and makes men surf in the midst of a battle  with explosions all around them.  And in the most famous line in the film  (and perhaps ever) he sums u the whole war in one line of insanity: "I love  the smell of napalm in the mourning." And proceeds to say that "Someday  this war is gonna end," with almost a glint of remorse in his eye.  This  performance along with Sheen's as Willard, are quite simply some of the  greatest ever.
The directing is stunning.  The scenes as they go up the  river are so creepily beautiful that you find yourself gasping in amazement  and waiting in anticipation for what the river is going to reveal next.  Battles are shown as some sort of apocalyptic work of art, full of beauty  and violence.  One of Francis's best, along with "The Godfather" 1 and 2  and "The Conversation".
The film has never looked so good as on DVD.  All  of the images are vibrant with colour and clarity.  This is how the film  was meant to be seen.
Thanxs...