"laws yes" this movie kept going and going and going. The Stand takes a theme, viral fallout, which is absolutely bursting with the potential for an engrossing storyline and a phenominal set and never manages to reach any of it.  The Stand is filled with so much fluff that doesn't advance the storyline that it becomes difficult to remain interested. Some of the special effects are also very cheesy, such as the "hand of god" and the ghost of mother abigail which appears in the maternity ward (more of a bust. why would a ghost be cut off directly below the shoulders in a straight line?). Stephen King himself manages to drag this movie down even further by giving himself an acting role in which he displays the poorest acting I've seen since Steven Seagal arrived in Hollywood. Apparently Stephen is either completely oblivious to the fact that his acting is horrendous or he's so obsessed with appearing in movies he doesn't care. There are also numerous contradictions and inconsistancies. After the fallout, for example, when the people in FreeZone have congregated, they continue to eat reasonably well. Steaks, vegetables, etc. I'm assuming that a month after the fallout, the food in the grocery stores would have spoiled as well as food in people's homes. And so if all food has spoiled and 99% of America is dead, where is this food coming from? Farmers are dead, distributors are dead, yet this merry crew is eating like it's a Thanksgiving jamboree. Also, the virus is supposed to come on gradually mimicking a bad flu. Yet they keep finding bodies in the most inconceivable places. Who goes to a diner when you have a flu?  As for the set, it's breathtakingly beautiful in its rural splendor. Unfortunately, natural, scenic splendor does little to add to the macabre mood that should befit a viral fallout that's killed 99% of the population. When I rented this movie, all 4 tapes (2 tapes for Part 1, 2 for Part 2), it was actually in the horror section with a horror sticker on it. There was nothing remotely frightening about this film other than the general topic it was addressing. I also felt it was unnecessarily riddled with Christian connotations. It wasn't so much about good vs evil as King purports but about God vs Satan, with constant references to the Bible and religious this and religious that. It seemed like a Billy Graham sponsored film. The ending was perhaps the biggest copout of all. As a previous reviewer said, the men from the FreeZone pointlessly travelled to Vegas only to have a mysterious hand of God end the whole ordeal. Someone as acclaimed as Stephen King using the most amateurish of devices, deux ex machina, to end a story.