As with most other reviewers, I'm a bit torn as to how high I should review this current release of Fantasia/Fantasia 2000.

First of all, there is the obvious issue with editing Sunflower out of the pastoral scene.  Yes, this is classified as censorship, but the cut was made for the greater good (of the film, of society, you name it) and has been omitted in the film for the past 45+ years.  While this type of African American portrayal (or any other minority for that matter) was typical of the time, there are a few other instances in Disney movies where songs/scenes are uncomfortable and eye-raising (such as when the carnies put up the circus tents and sing their {now a slap in the face} song in Dumbo).  Different era, different mentality.  Sure, other studios have addressed this time in animation/film history, but only Disney remains relevant.  I mean, would any other animated film from the 40s have this much selling power if it DIDN'T have the Disney name on it?  The Censored Eleven (for those of you going off about "censorship" but have no actual clue what you're talking about, look it up on wiki) should be locked up and really only used for the purpose of education, NOT entertainment as they were originally meant for.  Of course one could make an argument that such imagery was intended as empowerment through comedy and propaganda, but that's a completely different discussion and will NOT be part of my review of Fantasia/2000...

Second, I am not a fan of Dali.  I have degrees in art, I've studied Dali in Madrid, I *know* Dali, however I do not personally *enjoy* the Surrealist movement.  That being said, I think Destino is absolutely amazing.  Dali was in his element and Walt Disney was experimenting with film, animation, and music.  What we consider classic animation now was WAY ahead of its time and above and beyond what other studios were doing when Fantasia had its public release.  Destino is definitely a gem and should be treated as such.

And third, I do NOT understand the DVD release being shut-out of most of the special features.  I can understand keeping the hours and hours of extra commentary as a blu-ray exclusive, BUT keeping Destino off of the DVD?  Making the DVD discs plain without any Disney graphics?  What's with that?!?!  Unfair!!

Despite its many flaws, this latest edition of Fantasia/Fantasia 2000 is a fantastic addition to any blu-ray, animation, or Disney collection.  Seriously, just for the animation that pushes the envelope, the amazing colors and techniques, and the music... both the ground breaking original and it's less popular 'sequel' are keepers.