Justice League: New Frontier, the latest direct to DVD comic book film from Warner Home Video, is an adaptation of the recent limited miniseries of the same name written and drawn by Darwyn Cooke. Taking place during the cold war/McCarthy era of the 1950's, it tells the story of how some of Earth's greatest heros come together to stop a threat that could destroy all life on the planet. While all of the classic DC superheros are involved, the story revolves in large part around Hal Jordan, a courageous test pilot who will soon be given a ring with extraordinary powers and inherit the mantle of the Green Lantern.

The DVD does a very good job of condensing a story that spanned four rather large comic books into just 75 minutes. While many of the subplots from the books have been reduced to quick montages like newspaper stories or television reports, the overall story and tone of the books comes thru nicely. All of the heros have their moments to shine and everyone behaves as you would expect them to. In particular Hal Jordan/Green Lantern, a very popular character who has often been given short shrift in DC's animated shows, comes across really nicely here.

By setting the story during the 1950's, we're given some pretty unique visualizations of our heros. Superman, Batman and Wonder Woman all wear costumes very reminiscent of the Golden Age period (late 1930's and early 1940's). The animation follows the recent Bruce Timm/Paul Dini Batman, Superman and JLA cartoons with a slant towards Darwyn Cooke's style.

The voice acting is uniformly superb in this one; with Jeremy Sisto (Batman) and Kyle MacLachlan (Superman) really standing out. All the actors really emote their lines well and there is an earnestness to the delivery that is often missing in these kinds of productions.

The film is rated PG-13 and while there are some fairly violent moments, it's really not too far removed what is shown on television today.

The BluRay edition makes for an absolutely stunning picture - very sharp and crisp with nicely defined lines and vivid colors. It you have a BluRay player or PS3, it's definitely worth the extra money to see this show in high definition. There are also a lot of extras on the disc including multiple audio commentaries, a documentary on the history and genesis of the Justice League, and even several episodes of the Justice League Unlimited TV show.

Overall I was really impressed with this production; the writing and voicework were top notch and the animation was very well done. It stays very true to the source material and was entertaining from start to finish. A far better effort than some of WB's live action comic book offerings and definitely worth checking out.