If you've never heard of Preston Sturges, you've never heard of Hollywood's first great writer/director.  Certainly, Charlie Chaplin preceded Sturges in that role, but Chaplin was a phenomenally popular screen presence who used his box office clout to take control of his own films.

Preston Sturges started his career as a writer, having some Broadway success as a playwright before transitioning to Hollywood.  In 1940, he convinced the powers-that-be to give him a shot directing his script for the political satire, THE GREAT McGINTY.  That began a surge of brilliant, fast-talking screen comedies that was substantially over by the time World War II ended (though he did go on to make a few lesser-regarded films before his death in 1959).  But during his amazing run, Sturges paved a path for the likes of Billy Wilder, who, unlike his auteur predecessor, always wrote with a partner.

So, if you've never heard of Preston Sturges, you've probably never heard of CHRISTMAS IN JULY, THE LADY EVE, THE PALM BEACH STORY, THE MIRACLE OF MORGAN'S CREEK or HAIL THE CONQUERING HERO.  All of them are terrific and well worth checking out.  But if one Sturges film rises above the others, it's his 1941 masterpiece, SULLIVAN'S TRAVELS.

While his other movies are pretty much out-and-out comedies, SULLIVAN'S TRAVELS mixes Sturges' brilliant, whipsaw-quick, sharp-witted dialogue with much darker elements.  In many ways, some of the most affecting sections of the picture are strictly visual passages, featuring the movie's privileged hero among society's poor and downtrodden.  In these scenes, Sturges evokes THE GRAPES OF WRATH more than HIS GIRL FRIDAY.

One thing that raises SULLIVAN'S TRAVELS to the level of classic is its seemingly autobiographical element.  The main character is John Sullivan (Joel McCrea in an endearingly self-effacing performance), a successful Hollywood director of mindless comedies like So Long Sarong, Hey Hey in the Hayloft and Ants in Your Pants of 1939.  But Sullivan is itching to make his serious picture, where he can expose the human condition.  His dream project:  O Brother, Where Art Thou... in case you were wondering where the Coen Brothers got the title for what was essentially their Sturges homage.

Against the wishes and advice of his bosses, handlers and servants (made up of a coterie of character actors, most of them part of Sturges' "stock company"), Sullivan sets out on the road, outfitted as a hobo with just a dime in his pocket.  While his first forays into America's underbelly don't go so well, he does meet A Girl (Veronica Lake), a down-on-her-luck, would-be actress, giving up her Hollywood dream and heading home.  ("There's always a girl.")

Without going into the uncompromising twists and turns Preston Sturges packs into his 91 minutes, Sullivan winds up a nameless, convicted murderer on a southern chain gang.  Like every great hero's journey, John Sullivan has to completely, hopelessly bottom out before he is redeemed.  In this case, it's an epiphany about the value of simply making people laugh, offering an escape from daily struggles, sublimely and heartbreakingly realized by this masterful filmmaker.

To Preston Sturges' undying credit, the filmmaker succeeds in a way his fictional counterpart doesn't.  In the end, Sturges does make his O Brother Where Art Thou and his Ants in Your Pants... all in one movie - SULLIVAN'S TRAVELS.

THE DISC

Part of Universal's 100th Anniversary Collection (though the movie was originally released by Paramount), it doesn't appear that a whole lot of restoration was done since the landmark Criterion release over ten years ago.  Still, the black and white classic looks and sounds just fine, presented in its original 1.33:1 aspect ratio with a mono soundtrack.

EXTRAS

If you're looking for substantial supplements, the 2001 Criterion release is still in print.  However, it will set you back over twice as much as this bare-bones Universal version.  If you are just looking to check out one of AFI's 100 Greatest Films and aren't concerned about extras, in addition to the classic movie, this release offers:

A pair of 8-minute promo videos about the history of Universal Pictures, covering, respectively, "The Carl Laemmle Era" and "The Lew Wasserman Era."

The theatrical trailer for SULLIVAN'S TRAVELS.

MY SAY

A screwball masterpiece about Hollywood by Hollywood's first great writer/director.  This movie is a must for any serious collector... or anyone who loves movies.