This is one of the best movies I have seen in a long time. This is one of those rare movies which seems to me to reach near perfection and succeeds in every imaginable way. There is simply so much to praise in this little movie I am not sure where to begin. I should offer my SPOILER ALERT at this point as well since I do give away some of what happens in the movie.

The story is really a coming of age story set mostly in Iran. The movie provides a very basic history lesson in regard to Iran's recent history which is interesting in its own right. The protagonist of the story, Marjane Satrapi, lives through the overthrow of the Shah, the rise of Islamic fundamentalism, as well as the Iran-Iraq war. As a coming of age story the themes of the movie are universal but it is set against a very unique background and has a political message as well. Marjane's parents send her to school in Vienna and we see her struggling to find her place and her identity as an Iranian. She falls in with a group of dissident, counter-culture types but never really fits in. None of them have backgrounds even remotely resembling her own. She has a failed romance before returning to Iran. Marjane is clearly someone who is, like all of us, struggling to find her place.

The movie is apparently based on the autobiographical graphic novel of the same name by Marjane Satrapi. The movie is animated but it is animated in a very unique way. The style of animation seems to have been chosen in order to recreate the feel of a graphic novel or comic book on film. At first I was not sure whether I was going to like the style of animation in this movie, it seemed so different from what I was used to, but it really worked exceptionally well for this film. In a comic book a continuous story is constructed through discontinuous frames. This forces a kind of minimalism on the story. Everything has to be distilled down to its essence. You get maybe six frames a page and a few lines so those lines have to be well chosen. There is no room for extraneous details. Something similar happens in this film. The whole movie is told in this very minimalist way and yet the producers of this movie succeed brilliantly in capturing the essence of everything that happens to Marjane. The story of Marjane's first love, for example, is told in a very compact number of frames and yet this film succeeds in presenting a much fuller and truer picture of first love than any movie I have ever seen and with more insight (the transformation of her first love's image after she discovers him cheating on her for example).

Another example is the scene between Marjane and her husband where she is looking for her car keys while he is watching the Terminator. She asks him where the car keys are in an angry way and he turns up the volume on the t.v. and then she finds them in her pocket. All of their marital problems are condensed into that one scene. Somehow in that one scene of Marjane looking for her car keys we get a sense of the entire marriage and its deterioration. A typical hollywood movie would have portrayed the deterioration of the marriage quite differently. First, it probably would turned the husband (or Marjane) into a villain perhaps through infidelity. It then would have brought the deteriorating relationship to a head with a dramatic fight scene. Hollywood trades drama for realism and truth. This movie captures the essence of a deteriorating marriage without turning anyone into a villain and without over-dramatizing.

This minimalist style is like having to express everything you have to say in a single sentence. Most movies can ramble on and on and never have anything truly interesting or profound or even true to say. The opposite is the case with this film. This film cuts right to the essential truths of its subject matter without rambling on and on. It is really quite amazing.

And the film is entirely devoid of sentimentality or cliche. There is not a false note in this movie. So much on screen emotion feels so utterly false. People are portrayed as they think they are supposed to feel rather than how they actually would feel. This movie is a breath of fresh air. Every emotion in the film is real.

Besides being a universal coming of age story the movie also has some interesting and important political themes. It is clear after watching this movie that the values that we tend to think of as Western values, such as individual liberty, freedom of expression, women's rights, democracy, etc. are not, in reality, uniquely Western. Oppression is oppression wherever and whenever it exists and the human spirit rebels against oppression wherever it is found. Marjane Satrapi is more courageous than most in expressing her opposition to oppression but she finds sympathy from nearly everyone around her. The majority of the Iranian people are not happy with their oppressive system (as evidenced by the recent protests there) and this movie documents the Iranian's struggles quite beautifully.

The characters are all fully drawn especially Marjane, her parents, and her grandmother with whom Marjane has a special bond. There is a great deal of humor in the movie despite the fact that it is often dealing with heavy themes. This really is a nearly perfect movie. It combines laughter with sadness, comedy with tragedy, personal growth set amidst political turmoil. It deals with its themes (love, coming of age, life in a foreign country, political oppression and resistance to oppression, etc.) in a profound way. The animation is beautiful. The characters are extremely memorable. The movie is extremely unique without being artsy for artsiness sake. And you get a free, short, history lesson on Iran to boot!

When I read the description of this movie I was really only mildly interested in watching it. But I was visiting my family and they wanted to watch it so I acquiesced and it turned out to be the best movie I have seen in a long time. If you are at all on the fence about this movie I highly recommend giving it a try. Perhaps you will not like it as much as I did but I think there is a very good chance that you will.