Like the impossible situations in many Borges' short stories, Lost Highway presents an astonishing and uncanny tale in which David Lynch mixes his own obsessions with Hitchcock's Vertigo, Freud's Uncanny, and Bioy Casares' plays with time and space. Close to Borges, Bioy Casares short stories and novels deal with impossible plots where time and space are more related to the character's mind than reality. What is unbereable for Bill Pullman's personage, generates a mad trip to no place. Like in Bioy Casares' El Atajo (the Short cut), the character has to invent a complex net in order to accept his wife is not faithfull to him. Later, he has to accept more difficult things, so the plot responds to that. What makes this film extraordinaty (besides the usual Lightning and Sound excellencies)is the "mirror" structure, derived from the mirror images of Bill Pullman. At the beginning, he is in front of a mirror; later, before a transformation in someone else, he is at the mirror again; but this time, he takes the dark path by the side of the mirror. As a paranoid husband, he wants to be the husband and the lover at the same time. And the plot will pleased him in a strange way. As a mirror of this, Patricia Arquette's character will be doubled, being the wife and the lover of a mobster (Robert Loggia). The question the film tries to answer is: What do you have to do when you can't stand your wife betrayal? In which way you can control the woman you love? Is it really possible to set free the person you obsessively love? At last, like in Vertigo, there is no double (Madelaine and Judy are only one person). In Lost Highway, Lynch doubles the risk and he doubles both characters, the man and the woman. And this sort of Double Vertigo occurs in the placid yet sordid suburban paradise that Lynch has shown in Blue Velvet.
Regarding Sight and Sound, the DVD version is surely able to catch the atmosphere that VHS is not capable of. With some scenes almost completely dark, and with lots of whispers and strange sounds, DVD will show the intensity of this underrated film for those who did not see it at the theaters.