Okay, I went all Seussical on you, but I figured that this film was worth it.  
Now, I have read several of the reviews which were written for this movie, and I'v heard the complaints, but here's what I have to say:
This movie is unique.  This movie is the kind of movie(s) which is dying out now.  
First off, it is a musical.  This genre, whose sole supporter for the last few years (Disney) has almost completely left, is one which I in particular treasure.  Sure, it's goofy to imagine that someone could suddenly burst into song in the middle of their heartache (or their triumph, or when describing what it's like to be a trapper :), but musicals speak to something within us, making the world just unreal enough to love.  It's unique in the movie business in that it's surreal ways can increase the closeness someone has with a movie by being engrossed by the songs.
Secondly, it's an Indie...a GOOD indie.  A COMEDY/SLAPSTICK indie.  And while there are no lack of sophmoric comedies availble, no one does it with such gusto, imagination, or daring as Trey Parker.  The last indie with such imagination and zest that I'd seen was from Sam Raimi and Kevin Smith...and look at them.
This film is unique.  It's subtle in alot of ways, with alot of points to make which can been seen in more then one viewing only.  True, sometimes there are periods without specific jokes, but if you watch the movie, you realize that the whole damned thing is one big joke.  
Plus, the music is simply amazing in it's fun and catchiness.
In short, movies like this and Orgazmo (another of my favorites which has it's own brand of humor and much of the same cast) are gems to be treasured.  They shouldn't be thrown out because they were made by two young college guys without any experience...
Or two young guys with a well known TV show that many people have preconceptions about...
To be honest, if Mel Brooks or another veteran had decided to undertake on this project, they probably wouldv've been applauded.  So I applaud Trey Parker (this was truly his baby is you read the credits) for his genius, ingenuity, bravery, and wonderful singing voice.
Shpadoinkel!