This is such a fantastic movie, and everything a Science Fiction movie should be!

The plot is very interesting. It brings back the Borg, the baddies of the universe.  Through a series of events, the Borg time travel ( Yes I know, in Star Trek, they travel through time like we change socks) to the past and plan to make the population of Earth all Borg. Well, Captain Picard and crew just can't let that happen. They travel back the same way the Borg did and stop them.  It seems that the Borg want to stop "First Contact" (that's when we met aliens for the first time) and we'll never make friends in the universe and it's easy pickings for the Brog to turn all of us into them.  That's pretty much all I want to say on what happens, I don't want to give to much of it away.  Just trust me, it's fantastic!

This movie has it all.  It's chuck full of suspense, jaw dropping stunts, and some really interesting plot twists and some old fashion action.

I really liked the story line of Picard's obsession. It was linked to Moby Dick and Captain Ahab.  This just adds to much to the story line. If you didn't know there were two epys of Star Trek: The Next Generation where Picard was taken by the Borg, and was made into one of them.

Now for the blu ray aspect.  Its' phonominial!!!  It has fantastic sounds.  The sound is so crisp and clear, again, it adds a lot to the movie. The visuals are out of this world. Everything is crystal clear and the images are incredibly sharp. The view can't help but to be drawn in.  I just have one small issues with it. The menu screen could have been so much better. It was just the Star Trek symbol, and then it looked liked you are in warp drive in space, going around the symbol.  I think that they really dropped the ball on this one. They could have done so much for the menu screen. They could have had the new Enterprise, the Borg, Data, the Queen Borg, the Borg Ship, anything. Anything would be better than nothing, and I feel that's what they have for the menu.

Overall if you have a blu ray and you like shape images, and sharp impressive sound, then you need to get Star Trek: First Contact!