The Way Of The Gun: rated R, 1 hour and 59 minutes
To fully appreciate The Way Of The Gun requires a keen intellect, a propensity for the unusual film noire thriller, and an admiration for the paradoxical Mexican standoff. There is a lot more to this trashy action flick than meets the eye, a whole lot of underlying plot and symbolism grace the movie. Meet Parker and Longbaugh: two desperate, gun-toting desperados searching for the perfect plan to snag a load of cash. Enter Robin: the pregnant carrier of a multi-millionaire gangster's baby. The petty bandits seize the opportunity to kidnap the very pregnant Robin and hold her and the unborn baby ransom. Our pitiable protagonist thugs run into a slew of complications and life-threatening situations including appearances by two relentless, very creepy bodyguards, a faux doctor, and a resilient old hit-man who has yet to retire. The movie is undoubtedly far-fetched, and at times you will find that you just have to bear with it. It is fast paced, but often over-indulgent. Ryan Phillipe and Benicio Del Toro make the uncool Parker and Longbaugh cool as ice. Gazing at Del Toro's amusingly non-versatile, unchanging face (&agrave; la Clint Eastwood in his younger days) gives the illusion of the character being a sharp, chic, champion. Unfortunately, in this game, no one is a champion.
There is a certain twisted humor to all of the futility and implausibility of The Way Of The Gun. It is intentionally the farthest reaches from being endearing. The characters are cold and brutal and you are not supposed to like them. This gives the movie a unique edginess. One of the most notable successes of the movie is its elaborate and witty plot. The writing by Christopher McQuarrie is impeccable. It is not since The Usual Suspects (not coincidentally his last screenplay) that we receive such a brilliant and enthralling storyline. The difference is that this movie is both written and directed by the first-time director, McQuarrie. In this there is a great distinction that adds to the overall effect of the movie. Every timely shooting, and every confrontational shootout between multiple opponents that in itself becomes an artistic contradiction, we feel the passion of the characters, as well as of the filmmaker.
The Way Of The Gun is an odd film for its genre and many will dismiss it for its complexity and abstractness, but make no mistake, The Way Of The Gun is a misunderstood masterpiece.