Throughout my consumer-driven life, I have, on occasion, felt prompted to write a negative review of something I purchased.  I have not, however, EVER gone through with it, until now.  This wretched rendition of such a wonderful film deserves all the cursing I can muster.  The cretins at FOX deserve a form of punishment from Dante's "INFERNO" for mutating Micheal Mann's picture for this DVD.  For a moment let me put aside all pretense of eloquence and say..ahem...
...Now that I have stated my opinion, allow me to tell you why.  
First of all, there are no special features.  And I mean NO special features.  Zip, zero, nada, nothing, zilch.  I don't mean to belittle the marvel of "Digital quality picture and sound", but for those of us, like myself, that have a POS television and sound system, special features are the primary attraction of DVDs.  The best "extra" on this disc is the ability to put the sub-titles in spanish (it doesn't even come with a "dubbing" option); interviews, cut scenes, commentaries, biographies do not exist on this DVD.
Secondly, this "Anamorphic Widescreen" is a complete rip off.  The natural subtitles that come with the feature (ie - when someone is speaking french or an Indian language) often get cut off at the sides of the screen.  Scenes that warrant "Widescreen" are wide enough to tease you, but not wide enough to really get the scope of this breath-taking picture.
Also, the "Director's Expanded Edition" is not exactly as it was on VHS.  I confess that I never saw the original theatrical release (I was 11 in 1992 and my parents were not in the habit of taking me to "R" rated pictures) and that my only exposure to "The Last of the Mohicans" is the "Director's Cut" VHS edition.  While I noticed no significant changes in scene or sequence, a few of my favorite lines were unceremoniously cut.  And I cannot fathom why.  They could not have contributed more than 3 minutes to the length of the movie, but they contributed so VERY much to the character development.  I was utterly disappointed.
Finally, just let me say that this DVD is a waste of your money.  There is NO reason to purchase this film on DVD (when this is the DVD to purchase).  Buy the widescreen VHS version, trust me, you'll respect yourself in the morning. ...
...Just My Opinion,
K. KELLEY