Wes Craven's A Nightmare on Elm Street is a masterpiece in cinema not just a minor masterpiece. It revolutionized the horror genre and cinema itself forever. By now we probably all know what the film is about, but let me explain to you once again. It involves a long dead child murderer named Fred Kreuger, who was burned by the teenagers of Springwood many years ago, because they wanted to take the law into there own hands,after Fred Krueger was found not guility because of a technicality. Unfortunately he comes back years later to take revenge against the people who killed him in the most sinister and evil way possible, by killing their teenage sons and daughters in their dreams. The film focuses on a group of teens who are all having the same dreams about this man, a man with a beat up hat, red sweater, and horrific looking knifes for fingers. One by One the teens die in bizarre and hideous ways. The only teenage survivor Nancy Thompson is left to fend for herself, and decides to bring the dream demon out of his foul domain, and into the real world, so hopefully she can stop him for good.

 The level of suspense and terror is this film, is beyond anything I ever seen in any film. This film proves that Wes Craven know to create horror suspense better than one else. This film is a masterpiece, in every way. This film defined the modern horror genre, and literally revolutionized cinema. People should give as much thanks as possible to Wes Craven, because without him, a lot of the copycat films that people recognize with today, would probably not exist. Nightmare on Elm Street contained more gore than any before it, and scared the living hell out of audiences who saw it for the first time, it was unlike anything ever made before, it was pure genius.

 Freddy Krueger is truly terrifying in this film, this film shows the dark evil horrific Krueger, unlike the Freddy Krueger the comedian in the later films. He hides in the shadows, stalks and torments teens to the bitter end before killing them in a violent and sadistic manner, unlike anything thing ever seen before in a film. When Freddy kills Tina in NOES, is not only one of the most memorable deaths in series, but in cinema history itself. A Nightmare on Elm Street came from the deepest, darkest realm in Wes Craven's unhealthy imagination, and it made 25 million dollars despite it's low budget. The idea of an evil man turned horror demon killing teens in their sleep, had never touched by any producer, director, or writer in cinema. This timeless masterpiece looks great on DVD, although it is quite grainy and dated, and has just a few compression artifacts, overall the picture quality is quite excellent and so it the sound. Pick this film up today, it's a masterpiece, and it's the birth of the greatest modern horror legend of all time, Freddy Krueger.

Freddy Krueger's first cinematic massacre in New Line Cinema's never-ending "Nightmare on Elm Street" horror series remains the character's best and scariest appearance to date. Twenty years, a TV series and seven inferior sequels (including "Freddy Vs. Jason") haven't dampened the impact, influence and sick fun that Wes Craven's 1984 low-budget flick brought to a horror genre saturated with too many humorless "Friday the 13th" clones. New Line comes through for its beloved franchise with solid technical specs and a handful of bonus features (excellent commentary track) that make this THE affordable DVD version of "NOES" to own. The DVD Box Set version is a better overall bargain, but if you only want this particular Freddy movie the stand-alone version isn't a bad deal. This is a spectacular film and a timeless masterpiece, pick it up today.