Despite reports to the contrary, the DVD is wonderful.
First, as to the technical quibbles - it's all about the music and the performance - be glad it was captured! The picture and sound on my copy is GREAT. Watched on my 40" LG plasma and on my 23" PC monitor. The video in 4:3 480P is excellent for capturing a live performance in a low-key theater lighting situation.  The audio is clean, sharp and full range. The DVD experience is much more than the "just music" CD version some technophile has recommended. I find nothing negative about the technical quality. Enjoy the show.

Musically and performance-wize, this is one of the all-time great shows to see. Cohen's troupe of amazingly multi-talented and versatile musicians is a joy to witness.

Leonard is in his 75th year and is the master of his game. He touches all your emotions in a deep and complex way. This is a good DVD to watch with your sweetie along with some wine in a private location. Loaf of bread optional.

For vocals Leonard is supported by long-time collaborator and songwriter Sharon Robinson, and the wonderfully pure harmonies of the Webb sisters Charley and Hattie. Band members  Roscoe Beck (the musical director and Bassist) and Dino Soldo (winds & keyboard) also add to the harmonies. In the final hymn, everyone sings.

The musicians seem eclectic at first glance yet blend wonderfully. Cohen's music might suggest the very late night smoky atmosphere of a jazz club. The wide variety of musical traditions represented by the troupe, rather than conflicting with that atmosphere, bring it to a high level. The are all clearly deeply talented. One can sense that individually they could dazzle you with expertise in widely varying traditions but in this ensemble they have chosen to blend beautifully and masterfully in an understated way. At every point they are unforced, comfortable, deep, and delicious. If you are a musician of any of any caliber you will be in appreciative awe.

I'd go on and on praising each member, but better than that, just buy the damn DVD, grab your personal thou, and settle in for a great treat. Later, send Leonard a thank-you note.