Considered by many to be the finest animated film made outside of the Disney banner, Don Bluth's The Secret Of NIMH (1982) was a welcome return to the classical style of animation when American cinema needed it most.  There was a near two-decade-long "dry spell" following Walt Disney's death in 1966 when the studio placed a greater priority on developing live-action films, and made extensive budgetary cutbacks to its animation departments.  Don Bluth and a dozen other animators grew so disenchanted that they left Disney in the late 70's to embark on their own projects.  NIMH was Bluth's first and most satisfying film.  Though at a domestic gross of $13 million, its initial theatrical release -- though not a failure as some have claimed -- was a significant commercial disappointment.  Dwarfed by the now legendary movie marketplace of the summer of '82 (with E.T., Star Trek II, Blade Runner, Conan The Barbarian, and Tootsie among them), NIMH also had the misfortune of a poor marketing campaign thanks to studio politics. Still suffering insurmountable losses from its Heaven's Gate debacle, United Artists had fathered NIMH before MGM bought out the company -- they, in turn, acquired control of the film.  Having little interest in an animated film of its own, and wanting to place greater emphasis on its "tentpole" release (Poltergiest), MGM dropped the ball, giving NIMH release little, if any, fanfare.

Yet The Secret of NIMH has endured over the years, thanks largely to television screenings and home video sales.  Ask anyone who was a child during the eighties, and they've likely seen and loved the film.  Based on Robert C. O'Brien's Newberry Award-winning novel, "Mrs. Frisby And The Rats Of NIMH," the movie combines a dark yet awe-inspiring view of nature while adding fantasy elements. It's a rather liberal view of the book, true, but faithful in its spirit -- evoking the same feelings as Richard Adams' "Watership Down."  The images deliberately used the old fashioned style of animation, utilizing extremely detailed paintings with deep, vivid, dreamlike colors and rich blacks.  Expertly voiced by a fine cast (including the late Elizabeth Hartman as the widowed mother field mouse trying to save her family), NIMH still holds up against today's CGI-aided features. It still feels fresh, as it avoids many of Disney's usual traits -- NIMH's NOT a musical, and presents some rather intense scenes for a G-rated film.  Like The Wizard Of Oz or The Black Stallion, it is one of the few family films that adults may enjoy every bit as much if not more than younger audiences.  Jerry Goldsmith's score (his first for an animated film) remains one of his best.