How important was it to Shakespeare, and to us, to have a deep knowledge of Roman History? Much of the criticism of this play contains a fundamental misreading of politics and the so-called Republic/Dictator or Tyranny antinomy. The history of the decline of the Roman Republic has to include the period at least going back to 100 B.C.E, up through the late 80's, the so-called Social Wars, and the contest between Marius and Sulla. Others (including myself) would stretch the breakdown of Roman law and order and plebeian/patrician accomodation back to the period between the destruction of Carthage in 146 B.C.E. and the Gracchi, culminating in their deaths by 133. I believe the Elizabethan public, at least the gentry, were well acquainted with this history. In our times, when we are so inundated by political rhetoric, which tends to obscure rather than illuminate central issues of fairness and justice, and where we have no concept of the importance of ancient sources, especially Plutarch, to the educational milieu, we cannot hope to fathom the meaning of this play. Therefore, it is critical to understanding, I believe, the deeper meaning of Julius Caesar, that one grasps the background, and just how out of sync-how "anachronistic" the views, words and sadly actions, are of the conspirators. The worst, not the best is actually Brutus, who to me has some deep personality disorder, allowing him to overintellectualize out of all proportion the possibility of Caesar not acting in the Roman people's best interest. Is it conceivable that Brutus is clinically depressed-and therefore that fact, rather than his political antagonism to Caesar, results in his "loss of mirth". Cicero's line to the conspirators "men may construe things after their fashion, clean from the purpose of the things themselves" says it all. While said to Casca in a different context, it would not be unusual for Shakespeare to hide in this throwaway line the key to the play. It is we, the conspirators and all the actors, save Antony (perhaps) but not Octavius, who will construe things incorrectly. Shakespeare, throughout all his works, is an amalgam of the thought process of his time, less so temporal events, although these have a bearing on the plays, and the stories he selected. They should be viewed through the lens of both Machiavelli and Montaigne: i.e. realpolitik and skepticism. The best example of this is the funeral oration: of course Antony (if not Brando) is more eloquent than Brutus-what the real difference is however is that he brings the people back to the truth: Caesar did act in their behalf-the will is just a reminder of that. Whether he did so because he truly believed in the people, something that Sulla thought, or just because of political expediency as a Populare, is to beg the question. Since political philosophers and historians have argued over that point since 44 B.C.E. Shakespeare isn't seemingly coming down on one side or the other. He is simply letting the historical facts speak for themselves. The republic is or rather was dead a long time ago. This was the first act of it's burial.