Entourage was a show that caught me completely by surprise. It was far better than I had expected.  Through the first 6 seasons I kept thinking how another writer/director/network would have taken this show down a different path and either made it too campy, or filled it with soap opera drama.  They always seemed to know the boundaries and pulled back before it ever went too far.  They knew how to keep it entertaining.  Unfortunately, they went off the rails in season 7.  It suddenly became a soap opera type drama, where everybody seemed to be imploding at once. The first 6 seasons were fun, season 7 is not. Lloyd is pretty much non-existant.  Vince is falling apart, and binging on drug and alcohol, and is just pathetic to watch.  Ari's rants, that have made the show extremely entertaining, are now ruining his life. Johnny Drama is in severe depressions about his career, and not in the funny way he usually is.  And Turtle, once again, tries to get a business going, and the harder he tries the worse it gets.  Unlike previous seasons, Eric doesn't do much to intervene.  He makes a few half-hearted attempts, but nothing like in previous seasons. These problems aren't for an episode or two, either.  It starts at the beginning of the season, and just keeps piling on throughout the season, to a very depressing finale. Season 7 is lacking all the fun and feel-good moments that made the series what it was.  They turned it into a soap opera.

I could have understood if they had wanted to, let's say, have this dramatic turn in Vince's life, but they should have had the rest of the cast remain more true to the show.  They went way overboard with the drama, and took the show in a different direction, and it simply was not fun.

It has a few moments, but most of the fun and humor are gone from the show. After 6 seasons, you are pretty attached to the show, and the characters, so you still go along for the ride. Because of that, it is watchable. However, if the show had been like this in season one, I would never have gone on to season 2.