When a single mother (Dianne Wiest) and her two kids (Jason Patric, Corey Haim) pack up and move from Phoenix to southern California, more specifically, Santa Carla, "the murder capital of the world," they have more than a little bit of adjusting to do.  The two teens and their mother move in with their quirky but loveable grandfather (Barnard Hughes), who has an inkling that there is more to this town than meets the eye.  At first, things seem different but manageable, until Sam meets the "Frog brothers" at the local comic book shop.  They hand him a horror comic about vampires and tell him to think of it as a survival manual.  Are these two merely kids with an over-active imagination, or is there some supernatural cause for this odd little coastal town's nickname?
When the older brother, Michael, goes into town for a live concert, he runs into a rather attractive woman named Star (Jami Gertz).  Star introduces Michael to her friends, who just happen to be vampires, and they decide to invite Michael to be one of them.  Unbeknownst to Michael, he drinks the blood of David (Kiefer Sutherland), the leader of a band of motorcycle riding teenage vampires, thus giving Michael this supernatural dark gift.  However, he must make his first kill before becoming a true creature of the night.  Only one thing can save Michael from an eternity of bloodsucking.  The head vampire must be killed.  But who is the head vampire, and can he be found before Michael gives in to temptation?  Will Sam and his newfound friends be willing and able to help Michael before it's too late?
This film is a classic, light-hearted 80's foray into the horror genre, complete with horrible wardrobe, glam rock, goofy humor, and a stellar cast performing a great screenplay with a cohesive plot.  There are indeed some great lines in this film that are quite memorable.  The Frog brothers, in particular, serve as some cute comic relief.  The effects and make-up are outstanding, and this is really noticeable in the final, knock-down, drag-out fight in the end of the movie.  The cinematography is also really well done (for example, the aerial shots when the vampires are flying towards the house).  
This movie is not meant to be taken very seriously, and it is certainly not Anne Rice or Bram Stoker by any means, but it is some great old-fashioned weekend entertainment.  Overall this is a great movie that everyone who grew up in the 80's should definitely own.  Moreover, it's a great addition to anyone's vampire or horror collection.  If you can enjoy a light-hearted romp through vampire mythology, then definitely pick this film up! 
A small downside to this DVD is that there are few extras.  If you merely want a great movie at a low price, then pick up this DVD.  Otherwise, there is a two-disc set coming out soon that should be worth checking out!