I am really happy after watching the Blu-ray version of Advent Children complete, it was totally worth what I paid, regardless of already owning the original version.
Now it is a full movie on its own, doesn't feel like a featurette for eye candy anymore.It vastly benefits from the other elements of compilation of final fantasy vii released after it, in particular Crisis Core, which if you have played it you will know has a storyline full of emotion that really adds up  when giving context to many of the extra scenes featuring zack.
But even if the almost half an hour of extra scenes is not enough for you, you will get also a full animated feature of the first volume of on a way to a smile. (the small booklet that came with the second release as a small novel) telling the story of Denzel, a pretty sad story. The animated feature does a great job of capturing the feelings written in the small tale, and gives a lot of context for the main film.
Finally, the review of compilation of final fantasy vii, is mindblowing, really!. It contains short clips of all the compilation, even before crisis that was never released in the US. Even better they do a great job at combining them in cronological order giving you very strong scenes such as the arrival of zack, cloud and sephiroth to nibelheim from the ff7, crisis core and before crisis perspective, it is just awesome.
The video quality is really really good, and I am watching this on a high def plasma with pretty good contrast and black levels. The new scenes in particular are significantly more detailed than the ones rendered for the original movie, which even though it makes the movie feel slightly uneven looks quite good.
You will also get to hear new arranged music of ff7 themes during the movie, of particular attention are the highwind and aeris themes, and even for a few moments anxious heart.
It is true that square enix has released this film many many times, in many different editions, but even if you don't want to buy it, at the very least you really have to see it if you played ff7, it is totally worth it.