This is my son's review.

Poor Jim Henson. Not knowing how sick he actually was, he died of pneumonia in the ER. Still, we had his son Brian and the Creature Shop to continue his legacy.
Now for a little history:
In the middle of the Eighties, Jim came up with an animatronic movie idea. Called "The Natural History Project", it would have consisted of a gruzzled old Parasaulolophus telling stories to an inexperienced young Corythysaurus, whilst being stalked by a pack of Raptors. However, the movie's release was pushed back when Don Bluth's "The Land Before Time" debuted, ironically written and designed by many former Henson staff. During this time, Jim was developing a TV sitcom about a family of dinosaurs with a toxic life style. Jim died before the project was completed, and "The Natural History Project", which was set to premier in theaters, was abandoned. Brian Henson shopped "Dinosaurs" around to ABC, and was given an episode order. It debuted on the fabled "TGIF" block, and the rest is history.
Surprisingly, for what ABC and most viewers thought was a "children's" show, it was not skewed to them. Most episodes were scathing, left-wing attacks on hot-topic issues. Some of these in the first season are treatment of the elderly, alternate lifestyles, endangered species, puberty, war, sexual harassment, feminism, the commercialization of Christmas, teenage gangs, materialism for popularity's sake, and many more. It was able to get away with this because network brass considered it nothing more than a puppet show. This probably led to its downfall.
Despite its technical ingenuity, "Dinosaurs" never attracted big ratings like "The Muppet Show" or "Fraggle Rock". The series fell in the ratings rapidly and staggered on for four seasons until its swift cancellation in 1994, with the infamous final episode where the dinosaurs go extinct in a parable of the dangers of progress. It had only started in 1991.
Despite its failure, "Dinosaurs" is a triumph of the use of the televised medium to its fullest extent. No way could this series have existed today. So I propose a toast: To Earl, Fran, Robbie, Charlene, and Baby Sinclair! I'm the baby, gotta love me!