My wife and I saw "Broadway: The Golden Age" for the second time last night. It was at Robert DeNiro's Tribeca Theatre Festival and we applaud him for celebrating this film and Rick McKay! Wy wife is a musical theatre performer and I am an actor. We moved to NYC a year ago and have beeen out there auditioning. Our families think we are crazy and we now know what to get everyone in our family for Christmas to help them understand how great theatre can be - and how great a movie can be!

The movie theater was sold out and people were going crazy for the film. We didn't realize that the director Rick McKay was introducing the film, which was a great bonus. He also showed about 20 minutes of the footage from the sequel, "Broadway: The Next Generation," which was right up our alley. I actually cried hearing Cady Huffman talk about Bob Fosse in that preivew. I gather that we are the first audience to ever see this footage and that there is even more on the DVD. Wow!

Another great surprise was that Ben Gazzara was there and he and Rick McKay did a talk back with the audience after. Rick McKay rules as an interviewer. Ben Gazzara totally opened up with him and McKay got great stories out of him. Then they signed books and stuff in the bar after. Amazing night.

But, this film is even better the second time. I can't wait to own it. It is just full of details and treats and fascinating rare footage. Ben Gazzara almost cried talking after about the footage in the film McKay found of Laurette Taylor. And seeing Gwen Verdon's last interview with this lost footage restored of her and Bob Fosse working together is so moving. The audience cheered at the high note John Raitt sang (Bonnie Raitt's dad!) and the rare footage of NYC and the stories of the passion of all these stars to just work on the stage. I enjoyed the PBS TV show last week, but they are so different. I think that tv show would be a good thing for my little brother back home to see in school. it is very useful. But, no one could understand the passion that makes great art seeing that one. This movie is just stunning. My wife and I talked aobut it all last night. And again today as we came on line to buy DVD's of it for Christmas. It is a true gift in more ways than one. Thank you for making it and keep them coming!