This is indeed a very colorful production and the acting is all pretty good, especially Kate Blanchette.
However it has two main problems
-- First there is the mis-blending of plots and episodes in the movie: Elizabeth's affairs at court with Sir Walter Raleigh shares about the same screen time as does the war with the spanish. But neither get dealt with properly or fully - they get dabbled in ... pity.
I am not sure how accurate the movie is. I honestly don't know but as a general history lesson it brings up interesting stuff about the religious background to spain etc. If it is correct in it's depictions then as a believer in secularism I am glad the spanish armada did not succeed againt England. The church has a lot to answer for in history no doubt. I say that tough I now live in Spain myself and love it to bits.
-- The second problem is the presence of Hollywood - the over-iconiation of Elizabeth is a pain amidst all the continuous background synthesized wall-to-wall dribble music. When will these producers ever learn? With all the classical music available not to mention endless abstract pieces that could have been used, I cannot understand the dullness of mind which the director is guilty of here. This is why this movie will always be a "B" flick. What a pity! A bit of simple taste and it might have been a classic. Certainly the stunning visual settings and costumes were all up to it.
I wish Hollywood would learn. Maybe take a page from A Man for all Seasons - pace things on the screen a little bit more rather than bombarding the viewer with this overproduction. Modern technology is great but we need to know when not to apply it.
Especially having spend all the time and money.
Let me give one small example of what I mean: There is a scene at a late stage of the file where the camera rotates a few times round a beautifully crafted doll/statuette of the queen(Kate Blanchette). Really marvelous idea but not at this stage of the story and for so long with all the meaningless background music raging. The film at this stage was boring and the scene served only to irritate this viewer - I just wanted it to end. Why not have this maybe in the opening scene and without the sound assault?!
The mark of a great film is wanting to watch it again at every excuse. Not this one
Que lastima!