This movie had me laughing throughout most of the film. Before I continue I'm going to touch on some bases. I think it's crazy to give this movie a bad review. The sexual references and the language is to be expected since it's rated PG13 and warns of  sexaul references/language the back cover of the movie. So of course it isn't appropriate for a young child. The studios never tried to disguise anything that's why the movie has a PG13 rating. Now in regards to the santa clause spoilers. The movie has its rating for a reason. If parents want to make sure its appropriate, check the ratings and or view the movie without the kids first. Then make your decision if you want them to watch it or not. Again don't blame the movie for being bad because of them saying Santa dosen't exist. In regard to them mocking christians. I'm a christian and I didn't feel insulted about the Mary/Joseph scence with Baby Jesus. They never said anything bad about Jesus or Mary/Joseph. They just made light of the situation to tell the Mary/Joseph story to the congregation. The movie wasn't terrible, you just have to understand the plot and humor in the storyline. Yes they show the somewhat bad sides of families, but that's how Vince and Kate's families are in this movie. Hence, they have avoided going to their families for christmas for a few years until they finally had no choice due to the facts they were caught on the news at the airport and there were flight delays. While it has some crude humor and shows the bad aspects of families; it only makes sense that it's this way in the movie. Because it would be boring and not funny if their families were sweet functional wonderful faimilies. In addition, it wouldn't match the premise behind the plot. They have avoided their families for the reasons you see in the movie. Overall, they avoid their families every year and lie to their them telling them they're helping kids in a third world country. When in fact they're treating themselves to tropical vactions in order to escape from their dreaded dysfunctional families. Nevertheless, I recommend this movie to anyone who wants to have a good healthy laugh. Because frankly it truly gives you a good perspective on dysfunctional families.