Although critics and some other people have taken great pleasure in ripping this movie, I actually enjoyed it very much. It was a fun adventure flick with some of my favorite literary characters. It was just dark enough to add dimension to them without losing the fun of the genre. How could I not enjoy it? No, I haven't read the comics...sorry, "graphic novels," so I didn't "have it ruined for me." But, please, people. Like they are actually going to put that kind of darkness and violence in a movie kids are going to want to see? Up against "Pirates?"

Also, I guess I am one of the last generation of Americans that has read any classic literature. I and my sibs got every one of the literary references and laughed each time. Sure, I had a few raised eyebrows (Skinner naked in the snow? Surprised he didn't get frostbite!) and eyerolls (Sawyer! Oh, please! An obvious character addition for young girls). Still, this is a "what if" story, so what is the big deal? Sean Connery was a great Quatermain...very much a man of his time. And what can I say about Naseeruddin Shah except he was a fabulous Nemo. Yes, I remember seeing that Disney movie "20,000 Leagues Under the Sea." That movie is what started a young girl's fascination (okay, crush) on Captain Nemo, and Shah's portrayal brought it all back in spades! (You should really check out some of his other movies) He portrayed Nemo just as I had imagined him (and hello to all the dorks out there that didn't know Nemo is Indian!!!) I like that he was an excellent warrior, as well as a genius, and yet still was gentlemanly and cultured...just don't get him mad! He was, after all, a freedom fighter, and no, that wasn't supposed to be kung fu, but more likely the Sikh martial art of Gatka. People just don't bother to learn that other cultures have developed their own version of martial arts, I guess.

Anyway, to stop nitpicking other peoples comments, some of the other characters I enjoyed were Skinner (Curran, very cheeky) and Jekyll/Hyde (Flemyng, wonderful self-torture, there). Mina (Wilson) didn't unveil her "gifts" until they were needed, as it should be, and I have to give credit to the unappealing Dorian (Townsend) because I immediately didn't like him. Ick. The only weak link was Sawyer (West), but I believe it was because his character was squeezed in for...whatever reason.

I am no expert on CGI, but I felt the production values were wonderful. Wow...the Nautilus was stupendous (and loved the interior decor).

There is rumor out there that a sequel is being considered, and talk of "re-casting" many of the roles. That, to me, would be a HUGE mistake! If you don't want Sir Sean as Quatermain...don't re-cast. Just leave him out. Horrible mistake if you re-cast Nemo. Naseeruddin DEFINED Nemo. Skinner and Jekyll...oh, heck. Just bring them all back...except Sawyer. He really wasn't a necessary character (nothing extraordinary there). Again, no reflection on West.

Just MHO