This movie is a wonderful comedy!  Unfortunately, this doesn't seem to have been intentional.  I'm sure the general public is supposed to overlook all the laughable discrepancies with how the Border Patrol is actually run, but as one familiar with the organization they are blaringly obvious.  Perhaps it wouldn't be such a sore point with me if other Border Patrol movies were guilty of comparable inaccuracies.

Instead, "The Shepherd" is written and directed without the courtesy of any field research.  It is simply a fantasy world created by writers Cade Courtley and Joe Gayton.  But let's overlook that costume designers only put Border Patrol patches on about half the uniforms, or that the Border Patrol doesn't have Captains in their ranks, even though the hard-nosed Demi Moore look-alike, Natalie J. Robb, identifies herself as the Patrol's apparent first.  It's doubtful anyone on the set has ever seen an actual Border Patrol vehicle, as all units got a Hollywood makeover.  I wonder if the Department of Homeland Security forbade the producers to use their likeness, the movie is so dissimilar from reality.  The DHS seal plastered on every vehicle isn't even the same color or design.

Director Isaac Florentine is just as much to blame for this amateurish peek into the violence along the border.  He doesn't do much to work with what little talent he has available to him, either, as the plot remains as predictable and the acting as stale as any other Van Damme film.

I wonder if the other reviewers posted on this site were watching the same film as me.  One doesn't even know what state it is supposed to be set in (New Mexico, not Texas), and the rest rave about the mature acting role Van Damme has adopted in his elder years.

Van Damme looks like he got mauled by the old age truck.  Baggy eyes, knots on his forehead...the only thing he does different in this movie than any of his others is that he talks less (much appreciated, since I have to activate the subtitles feature to understand anything he says, anyway) and he shoots more bad guys rather than spin-kicking them (no doubt because he's too old and sore to do as many stunts like in his "Bloodsport" days).

I will be watching this movie a few more times, but only to laugh at with my Border Patrol friends.  If you wish to watch a more accurate film depicting border justice, I suggest "Zorro."