I had first heard of the Baader-Meinhof Gruppe  / Rote Armee Fraktion (RAF) from my high school German instructor when I was a teenager in the 1970's--When the events this film is based upon were actually happening.  But I never gave the subject any thought after that time.  I thought the RAF (Rote Armee Fraktion) was similar to the Symbionese Liberation Army in the USA.  After seeing this picture--I know differently.  This is a fast-paced, adrenalin-inducing type of film about a terrorist group that grew out of the international era of unrest in the late 1960s--Inspired by the desire of the German youth to distance themselves from their elders who stood idly by as the Fascist Nazis took over their country.  The "Stadtguerilla" RAF started out euphorically in the late 1960's but by the mid-1970s the anarchistic management of the organization has descended into chaos. This picture ends up providing a historical overview of the RAF, and is entertaining in the process.  "The Baader-Meinhof Complex"also inspired me to read up on the RAF in both the English and German language versions of Wikipedia.  The performances are generally excellent, especially the female characters--Johanna Wokalek (as Gudrun Ensslin) is on fire !!!  I could see Ms. Wokalek playing "Medea" on the stage.  Other standouts include Nadja Uhl (as the coolly intense Brigitte Mohnhaupt); and Hannah Herzsprung (as Susanne Albrecht) in a small but memorable role.  Moritz Bleibtreu is also very good as the unpredictable and volatile bad-boy group leader Andreas Baader.  Having seen Martin Gedeck (Ulrike Meinhof) in other German films (Mostly Martha, The Lives of Others)--I was not as impressed with her performance.  She always seems to play herself rather than delving into a character.  But then--She is generally a leading lady.

In closing--There is an incredible amount of bonus material included in this 2 DVD set of "The Baader-Meinhof Complex".  Too much in fact (be careful if you suffer from OCD because you'll have to watch all of it).  Not only is there a documentary about the making of the film on DVD 1--There are 3 interviews each with the director, the screenwriter, and the writer of the book upon which this film was based--all on DVD 2.  Not to mention interviews with the lead actors as well as those in supporting roles (also on DVD 2).  They all wax philosophically over their various modes of participation in this project--Ad nauseum.  It goes on endlessly and tends to be redundant.  Certain clips are repeated among the various bonus segments.  It makes me think that the creators of this picture are somehow megalomaniacal.  However--If you are a student of the German language (as I am)--Here's a great opportunity to listen to and to learn more German--No matter what one thinks of the content of the bonus material.

Stephen C. Bird, author of "Hideous Exuberance: A Satire"