Friend,Neighbor,Killer...... John Wayne Gacy was all 3. Although not a true serial killer movie, the movie was pretty good. If you are a slasher movie fan, this movie is not for you for there is no gore and no bloody killing scenes. The movie starts off showing Gacy as a young boy on a hunting trip in the woods with his father. We see that his father would taunt him with insults and put downs. We then see Gacy as an adult who is married living what seemed to be a normal life. Gacy's mother lived with them also. To everyone who knew him, Gacy seemed the model citizen. He would throw parties and volunteered as a clown at the hospital. What everyone didn't know is that Gacy was a cold blooded murderer killing many young men. Neighbors start complaining about the awful odor coming from Gacy's basement. Gacy always passed this off as having had a sewer pipe broken. In actuality, the stench was coming from numerous bodies Gacy had buried in the crawlspace underneath his home. When the complaints got so bad, Gacy started using lime to cover up the smell. Gacy would sometimes pose as a police officer in order to lure young boys into his vehicle. He had his own construction type company and employed young men. When Gacy's wife finds sex toys he had hidden, she confronts him and he denies all but she is not convinced and leaves him. The killings go on as Gacy rides around and finds more victims. All of whom end up buried in the crawlspace of his home. Gacy kills so many young men, that he actually runs out of burial room. After an employee reports him to the police, they stake out his home which Gacy actually seemed to enjoy. Gacy would taunt the police and enjoyed playing a cat and mouse game with them. Eventually, he is caught and when local authorities visit the crawlspace to his home, they find Gacy's own gruesome "cemetery" crawling with maggots and roaches. It is then discovered that almost 30 bodies are buried there. Chicago was shocked to find out that they had such a serial killer living there like an ordinary citizen. This movie is interesting because it does give us a glimpse into the sick mind of Gacy. However it does so without horror and gore. I'd recommend renting this movie. I purchased it and don't regret it.