From the previews, this looked like it would be a hysterical movie. It was a good concept but unfortunately like most concepts, it never came to fruition. I usually enjoy this genre of movie spoofs (Scary Movie) but this one was just too contrived and poorly executed. The biggest flaw in this movie was it was very disjointed and the plot didn't flow smoothly. It was kind of like watching Saturday Night Live without any commercial breaks. Skit after skit of parodies from cult classics (you name it, they did it) but put together like a patchwork quilt. The other big flaw was that a lot of the scenes were just not funny. I've got a healthy sense of humor but this movie tested it. After a while, I was trying to find stuff to laugh at. It was agonizing to watch them act through a well-known scene and not bring anything new to the table, and worse, have their reenactment turn out to be unfunny. The majority of the funny scenes turned up in the preview and it left you wanting for more.
The whole cheerleader skit got lame quick, (crippled from jump), especially when they reenacted a scene from "Bring It On". The virgins trying to be deflowered also got weak, quick fast and in a hurry. A lot of the scenes would have been funny if they had not dragged them out and ended them quick, but they took somewhat funny scenes and dragged them to death. I rolled my eyes at so many scenes that I had a headache. It's as if they didn't know when to quit. I enjoyed a few scenes but the movie was very forgettable, I only remember one or two scenes that were worth laughing at.
Maybe my expectations were too high, although I didn't expect much and I got even less. Just one scene after another of borrowed material. I don't recall there being very much original stuff. It probably would have been better if they had come up with a movie and then added in spoofs, as opposed to trying to build a whole movie around nothing but spoofs.
In short, it really could have been something funny but they ruined it by being completely unoriginal. If you feel the need to waste money, go ahead and buy it, otherwise, rent it and make up your own mind. Again, I strongly advise against purchasing this movie.