There's a gruesome bit of stuff where this white faced nutter beheads a few people erroneously making you think that you're in for a tasty bit of Carpenter grand guignol. But oddly, it doesn't happen. It's as if Carpenter gathered his cast round and told them that they didn't have the time or money to employ stunt doubles for all of them so they should just go out there and fight but try not to hurt each other, defeating the whole point of a picture like this. The result is one of the most bizarre chase scenes ever filmed, with actors fighting in almost slow motion. In the middle of the whole sorry melange, the white faced dude keeps stopping and screaming at the camera, presumably in anguish over his thoughtless beheading of the planet's only registered dentist. Does anyone remember 'The Andy Williams Show' from the sixties? It used to have two cavemen that would leap in the air and freeze in mid flight before dropping to the ground. This chase sequence made me feel quite nostalgic for old Andy. You'd get a feeble explosion and up would pop a caveman from behind a rock. I half expected the bear from 'The Andy Williams Show' to swoop down on a jet pack asking for cookies. My God, he would have been welcome company, not to mention probably the only one who could actually land a punch on someone.
Another bright move was to have two of the women have that same silver hair as the kids in 'Village Of The Damned' (a homage to himself?) At one point I thought it was Natasha Henstridge who had her head chopped off but it was a case of mistaken identity.
Carpenter himself seems cheerfully unconcerned at the prospect of his career going down ... and appears to be having a whale of a time in the commentary (what I heard of it.) How bad can it get waking up every morning as a film director and knowing you're about to spend the day with Natasha Henstridge? In one hilarious moment he asks Mrs Henstridge how she approaches her craft. "I...er...it comes er...from within" she dissembles wildly. He needles her about her past as a model and tries to get her to gossip about that scene but she nervously declines, mentioning only some "nice dinner parties". He goes for cynical chuckles over the cheapo train model. Careful about underestimating your fans, John (or fan, after this debacle.) It's not only the set that could find itself in the red.