Reluctantly taking on board certain styles of humour, procrastination leaves me with the only option when I am faced by a film, which casts the arguably proclaimed legend of Slapstick comedy - Jim Carrey.  I am surely not alone.  Carrey has a distinct connection with `Marmite', a product generating a split in society through a Love Vs Hate barrier.  Ace Ventura; Mask; Cable Guy; Dumb and Dumber; Liar Liar; all left a lot to be desired in my opinion and yet I find myself encountered in debate with friends who obviously dislike Marmite (I personally love it!).  Through the despite lack of enthusiasm I hold for Mr Carrey, I have noticed his style harvesting and maturing into something fascinating.  We now see him taking on scripts, which I can't help think is something he truly feels connected with when the cameras are halted.  Carrey wants to be internally taken seriously, but is often pushed aside because of his blinding appearance which perceivers view as a juvenile type character with ephemeral antics that are almost out of steam.  "Truman Show" relates to my theory; Carrey taking on the more serious role and I agree, very good film plot, but Carrey was missing something and I can't put my finger on it, but he was far from spectacular. Until now of course...
Jim Carrey was born to play the character of "Brue Almighty", how often can you say that about an actor?  Frustrated with what life brings him, a job, which could open the door to the pinnacle of success, but yet Bruce feels trapped.  Feeling the unluckiest man alive, it is not surprising that Bruce finds comprehension a little hard to comprehend when confronted with God (Morgan Freeman). Luckily God has a sense of humour and will cast aside the many blasphemous comments Bruce has made to offer him a chance to play God.  With every opportunity of changing all his bad luck to good, Bruce faces the undeniable truth that he is his own worst enemy and that is the very reason he has had bad luck for so long.
The elements that will surely make this film a success will not solely depend on Mr Carrey either. Tom Shadyac (director) will now certainly be taking seriously in the film industry after pulling off some cleverly placed camera shots.  Another surprising performance was from Jennifer Aniston, clearly stamping down her mark on the film industry and has in my opinion been the most impressive out of the `Friends' cast.  Aniston has the calibre to play someone other than the character `Rachel', unlike Matt Le Blanc and Lisa Kudrow respectively.  Morgan Freeman is as outstanding as ever, applying his usual captivation of on-screen appearance and utterly distinguishing voice.
Bruce Almighty will undoubtedly cause a storm.
You'll Laugh. You'll Cry. A Classic.