Arriving under the dwarfing shadow of the big-budget epics like Matrix: Revolutions, Lord of the Rings: Return of the King, and Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World, sometimes there comes a film that is so refreshingly short, sweet, and simple that it has the power to, well, move you.

And yes, I use the word "dwarf" deliberately.  He's not a midget.

I'll confess, when I saw that the main character in this independent film was of hobbit-like proportions, I feared for the soul of the movie-making world.  I expected Wizard of Oz comical, or Lord of the Rings fantasy.  Or, and I prayed fervently this wouldn't happen, a sermon.  But instead what I got was a miniature enlightenment and some very fine low-budget entertainment.

Sweeping the big three at the Sundance Film Festival (Best Film, Best Director, Best Performance) The Station Agent is set in a rural New Jersey town and involves the lives of three desperately different people finding out what it means to interact with each other.  It's touching, painful, hilarious, and most of all, it's real.  The film is soaked from start to finish with the kind of rich characterization you might expect from a P.T. Anderson picture.  Finbar McBride (Peter Dinklage) is a dwarf who, moving to a new community after inheriting property from a deceased friend, deals with the aloneness and self-pity that comes with being a small man in a big world.  Joe Oramas (Bobby Cannavale) is his hot-dog selling, fast-talking, inhibition-free neighbor whose personality is so overbearingly friendly he can't make friends.  And Olivia Harris (Patricia Clarkson) is a divorced painter struggling with depression rooted in her child's death.

Writer-Director Thomas McCarthy explores themes of loneliness, friendship, and all the humor and tragedy that come between with such honesty that you frequently find yourself laughing and crying in the very same instant.  It doesn't sugarcoat the pain of relationships, it doesn't make the every-day moments melodramatic, and it doesn't preach... too much.

This isn't the film for the part of you that wants an ending with an overwhelmingly passionate romance, a sweeping death scene, or a sense of resolution.  The characters are much the same as when the film started, and though their problems are not fully solved, they are in the process of discovering people outside of themselves.