I'm not ashamed to admit I love this film and always have--even though at times I have been teased, ridiculed and even insulted for it. It came out when I was a highschool freshman, and I instantly fell in love with Liz. That's one place to start in considering this movie: at the time it was made, Liz (as Elizabeth Taylor was known in all the media) was at the absolute peak of her luscious physical perfection. It is entirely possible that there has never been a more gorgeous creature on two legs on the face of the earth. The fact that she looks stunning in such extreme makeup and headdresses says a lot. Then there's the impeccable credentials of the writer/director, Joseph L. Mankeiwicz, who had won Oscars for writing and directing two years in a row (A Letter to Three Wives, 1949; and All About Eve, 1950). While there is no denying the eye-popping visuals of this film--the costumes, the sets, the action sequences, and (of course) Liz Taylor in her prime--it has a literary and witty screenplay that seldom is given the credit it deserves. One example: When Cleopatra compliments Marc Antony on his Greek-style garb aboard her barge, he explains, "I have a fondness for almost all Greek things," to which she retorts, "Being an almost all-Greek thing, I am flattered," a reference to the historical Cleopatra's lineage. The film was nominated for nine Academy Awards, including Best Picture, and won four. Contrary to popular belief, it did NOT lose money, even though it was the most expensive film made up to that time (and, if you adjust for inflation, of all time). When it opened in the original reserved-seat roadshow run, it was sold out for four solid months. The New York Times gave it a glowing review.

So why is it thought of by many as a flop? The major problem was with the advance hype the movie generated, a phenomenon that has never been matched. When Fox advertised it with the slogan, "The motion picture the world has been waiting for," that was no idle hype. The movie was literally years in the making, for most of which time you couldn't pass a magazine rack without seeing at least a half-dozen publications with Liz and Burton on the cover. Their adulterous affair (both were married, he to Sybil, she to Eddie Fisher) during the filmmaking process made headlines and marked the true birth of the paparazzi in Italy, where it was filmed. It even earned a condemning editorial in the Vatican newspaper (although not, as sometimes reported, by the Pope himself). The film was parodied on prime-time television even before it opened. As a result, many people were just waiting for a chance to pounce on it, eager to denounce it as a flop, regardless of how it turned out.

Cleopatra also suffered because of its great length. It is reported that Mankeiwicz wanted to edit it as two three-hour films, but that Fox studio head Darryl F. Zanuck would not permit it, resulting in a film that ran slightly over four hours--for a few weeks, at least. It debuted in New York at four hours and six minutes; by the time it opened elsewhere, it had been trimmed by 22 minutes. And as its first run continued for the following months, it got progressively shorter as exhibitors whittled it down to allow for more showings per day. I went to see it four times during its first run, and each time after the first would realize that more scenes were missing.

This DVD release, like the original VHS release (and first telecast), restores the film to its original premiere running time of  246 minutes, including scenes that moviegoers outside of New York never got to see in the theater. The original three-disc DVD version (apparently available now only through used DVD outlets) included an outstanding AMC-produced documentary on the incredible history of this film, which is well worth seeking out. But the film really speaks for itself. Divorced from the hype and scandal and rumors, it stands up very well on its own. I have shown it to numerous younger viewers who have never seen it, and they are without exception delighted by it. The performances are uniformly strong (especially Rex Harrison and Roddy McDowall), the production values unexcelled, and the technical transfer is stunning in both video and audio (Alex North's exquisite score is among the films greatest assets). Forget the urban myths; this is a great flick.