Was Bob Crane a sick, twisted individual with a disturbing fetish for exhibitionism and random sex? Or was he just a normal guy with an unusual hobby? That's the question that writer Michael Gerbosi and director Paul Schrader pose in "Auto Focus," a film inspired by the real-life story of "Hogan's Heroes" star Bob Crane, who was killed in 1978 under circumstances that are still a mystery.
For those who hear of the subject matter and buy or rent this film looking for a cheap thrill, I would tell them not to bother. Regardless of the fact that he didn't write it, this is very much a Paul Schrader movie, with all of the attendant baggage that the screenwriter of "Taxi Driver" and "Raging Bull" brings to a project like this. Bob Crane may not seem on the surface like Travis Bickle or Jake LaMotta, but Schrader clearly sees his signature themes of guilt, sin and redemption in this character.
"I'm normal," Crane says to his agent when he's told that to get his foundering career back on track he has to put his hobby of videotaping his compulsive womanizing behind him. But is he? Is Crane simply a degenerate, a sick man who needs help, or is he what any good-looking, famous man would become if he had strange women approaching him worshipfully for autographs?
This film is as much about the price of fame as it is about sex. When we first see him, Bob Crane is a simple, semi-well-known L.A. disc jockey with a wife and a couple of kids, who aspires to be the next Jack Lemmon. He's a conservative, a "one-woman man" and proud of his status as a suburban breadwinner. But when he takes the part of Hogan on the 1960s sitcom set in a German prisoner-of-war camp that changes his life, his life opens up in ways that he never could have expected.
Helped along by his own personal Mephistopheles, home video pioneer John Carpenter (not to be confused with the director of "Halloween" and played to creepy perfection by Willem Dafoe), this likable prude with a love of photography becomes a compulsive womanizer whose fame can help him score with just about any woman who owns a television set.
The performances are excellent.  Greg Kinnear clearly knows what this guy is going through, and while his grasp of Crane's mannerisms struck me at times as a little bit like an impersonation rather than a performance, overall he does a splendid job.  Rita Wilson does as much as is possible (which, frankly, isn't much) with the role of Crane's sexually neglected first wife, and Maria Bello has fun, at least at first, with the part of the free-spirited actress whom Crane makes his second wife (and, in a patently Freudian way, turns into a carbon copy of his first). Ron Leibman is a voice of sanity as Crane's agent, who in vintage Hollywood style tells his client that it doesn't matter what you do as long as you're discreet about it.
And that's the problem -- Crane does pretty much what any normal guy would do who is suddenly rocketed to international stardom. It's just that he refuses to be a hypocrite about it. Crane's attutude is at odds with Schrader's Calvinist moralizing, which sends the second half of the film a little off the rails (almost literally -- Schrader illustrates the extent to which Crane's life is going out of control with such shaky camera work that you might need a barf bag for some scenes). It has moments that just don't work -- a fantasy scene where Crane's mind wanders during the filming of a scene for "Hogan's Heroes," turning into a fantasized orgy involving his actress-mistress, Colonel Klink and Schultz (I'm not kidding) would have been far better left on the cutting room floor. And the descent into grubby desperation towards the end rings just the tiniest bit false, as if the director were working out his own personal and sexual demons and grafting them onto a convenient fictional receptacle.
So while this film isn't perfect (and yet when was the last time you saw a mainstream Hollywood film that even came close to perfection?), it's a fascinating character study of how fame can toss gasoline onto the fire of a man's inner demons, causing them to rage out of control. It's interesting to ponder what Bob Crane would be doing today if he hadn't been bludgeoned to death in Scottsdale, Arizona in 1978. Would he have become the first mainstream actor to segue into hard-core pornography? Or would he have gone into counseling, rediscovered Jesus as his Lord and Savior, and gotten himself another hit sitcom? Was he just a pervert?  Or, given the fact that half the couples in America  who own camcorders have used them at least once to videotape themselves having sex, was he simply ahead of his time?  I have no idea, but it's a tribute to this film that it made me ask the questions.
It's not for everybody, but if the subject matter doesn't turn you off completely, "Auto Focus" is well worth taking a peek at.