I watched this movie, on TV, expecting it to be all right but not great- aimed at young teen girls. It is that but it actually does the story pretty well anyway.

The plot is about an irresponsible, somewhat lazy, fictional Danish Crown Prince who decides to go to Wisconsin after seeing a commercial for a video of Wisconsin college girls going topless for some stupid video. At the university he meets a very serious minded girl who has no time for someone like him (he's using an assumed name and she doesn't know who he really is).

Things go badly for a while but gradually thaw as she needs help with her Shakespeare class (he's an expert at it)and it seems he needs her help in a lot of things. He ends up being invited to her home for Thanksgiving break and gets along really well with everyone, the romance really gets started then.

Back at school things go well until the paparazzi get some incriminating photos of the two of them. Paige is furious when she finds out that "Eddie" is actually Crown Prince Edvard of Denmark and ends the relationship. At semester's end he goes back home to his royal duties and Paige finds that she can't bear to be without him.

From here on the movie does get kind of rushed and somewhat weak as she instantly decides to rush off to Denmark (with one small piece of luggage)with the aid of her own and her friends combined credit cards paying for a ticket. Once in Denmark her cab is stopped by what turns out to be a Royal parade. Paige gets out and tries to get Eddie's attention but can't. The crowd recognizes her from all the tabloid pictures and starts chanting her name, Eddie hears and rides his horse over to pick her up. Things really blur along  but Paige seems to get along with most everyone except the Queen and even they are all right once the Queen sees what a positive influence Paige has been on Edvard. At almost the end of the movie Paige suddenly gets cold feet and breaks off the engagement, leaving Denmark as the now King Edvard III  makes a speech to his subjects. Some months later Paige has graduated and can now go on to medical school as she's always wanted. She turns at hearing some Shakespeare, Edvard is there, he tells her he'll wait for her, she accepts his proposal.

The Denmark on part of the movie was less than half of the story and far too rushed along but the happy ending was nice.

One thing I found interesting was when the queen took Paige into the royal vault to try on some jewelry for some event. I remember thinking that the "Harry Winston" necklace she tried on was probably worth the price of her father's farm, turns out in the credits that Harry Winston did supply the jewelry shown.