Practically every book that Stephen King has written has been turned into a movie (see "Carrie", "The Shining", "Salems Lot" and "Christine" for just some of them). So they had a whole Stephen King season of films on Channel 4, and I managed to catch "Christine" and this one, "Pet Sematary".

As the title and the opening credits came onto the screen, I could actually feel my skin crawling, and had an ominous feeling hanging around my head.

The story is that of a nice family, a mum, dad and two kids, who move to a house next to an extremely busy road. Across the road lives a neighbour Jed, who is intent on showing them the pet sematary that is just down the lane. Pets are always getting run down by the trucks that go past every day, and sooner or later, the young daughter's cat Church dies on that same road. Jed takes the father to bury it, not in the sematary, but a little further on, in an ancient burial ground that brings the dead back to life. The girl has no idea that her cat is dead, though the cat begins acting aggressive after it comes to life.

No sooner has this happened, than the family's own son Gage dies on the road. Will the father try and resurrect Gage? Or will he leave him to the familiar human cemetery?

I wouldn't say that this film is particularly scary - obviously, it has it's moments, but nothing truly terrifying - although it is suitably creepy. So creepy in fact, and disturbing, that I am only giving it 3 stars. The storyline was good (obviously as it was concocted by Stephen King), though the movie itself seemed to drag just a little. I felt myself growing bored in parts. But also, the idea of it disturbed me a lot. What with the flashback scenes of Zelda and the final scene, I was feeling suitably disgusted, and the movie left me feeling a little strange.

I suppose it did what it was supposed to do, but it didn't leave me wanting to buy it or watch it again AT ALL. It moved me, but in entirely the wrong way.

If you like really sick storylines and disturbing visuals, I would suggest you watch this film. But not for me, thanks.