I was disappointed with this filming of the Hemingway story at a number of levels. The performances of Bogart and Bacall were the only signs of life in this otherwise dull and unimaginative film. The direction of Howard Hawks is largely to blame. While his early work has a certain excitement appropriate to its subject matter, by the late 30s he was already exhibiting signs of his worst excesses in films like "Bringing Up Baby" and "Only Angels Have Wings".

"To Have and Have Not" isn't so much a bad film as just an excruciatingly dull one. Hawks made a film on the bet that he could make a film out of Hemingway's worst novel. Unfortunately, this gimmicky approach is evident in the film's story. Hawks' unerring "professionalism" is a real liability for the characters. Bogart is not allowed the moments of introspection and weakness that made his Rick Blaine in "Casablanca" such an enduring, iconic character in the cinema. Hawks plays everything at a medium pitch, unwilling to really let his characters or his camera breathe. There is, to be fair, a justifiably praised on-screen chemistry between Bogart and Bacall, though their best scenes together seem to belong in a different film. Hawks allows himself a witless comic relief character in the form of Walter Brennan, whose presence marred many otherwise good films of the period (Brennan was actually a very gifted character actor, but was dreadfully overused throughout much of his career).

Finally, one has to wonder just what it is about the film that has earned it such praise over the years. It has much to do with the auteurist cult of Howard Hawks, undoubtedly. It's not a great film, though, and not even a good one. Curtiz achieved a far wider breadth of character and emotional intensity in "Casablanca", a film that Hawks' picture tries hard to be. Bogart and Bacall were probably better-served in Hawks' "The Big Sleep" two years later, in which they had better characters to sink their teeth into.

As Hawks' work goes, it's a largely unimportant work, significantly less important than "Scarface" or even relatively minor efforts such as "The Crowd Roars" and "Barbary Coast", which at least are more successful for what they are.