Before I say anything, I'm Roman Catholic, so anyone who wants to accuse me of missing the point because of my obvious bias against Christianity, will have to go elsewhere. Where to begin?

The adults, by and large, were nuanced actors, but not the kids. Both the main character and his girlfriend Amy are laughably melodramatic, the main character when he's trying to be angry and the girlfriend when she's (constantly) crying. Roger was the only young actor that I really was impressed by, and I wish he had more screen time or at least a more in-depth exploration of who he was. He captured in a direct way what it feels and looks like to suffer in silence.

Roger, aside from being well-acted, was a likable character. He was a good, patient, giving kid facing a very real and dire plight. Jake Taylor was ultimately not a likable character. He started out that way. He gave someone a ride home, spent time with him, and tried to be his friend without shaming him. By the end, Jake turns into someone with all the answers who has to save everyone else. Isn't that convenient? Naturally, we all need help and it is our duty to reach out to others, but the near-complete lack of strong characters other than Jake and the pastor make them look like overwritten savior figures at whose feet everyone just grovels.

Amy was even worse. She had zero respect for Jake's spiritual leanings and shamelessly minimized the importance of Roger's life. Additionally, the only thing that stood out about Amy was her pregnancy. Amy ends up being a poorly developed and rather unsympathetic character. Granted, the idea is that Christ changes us, so I could have lived with that if she had changed for the better over the course of the story. I didn't see that happening though. I literally see her getting harassed by Jake about her pregnancy and deciding magically that maybe she won't terminate after all. This establishes very well her need for approval and her ability to follow directions, but spiritually, it's lacking.

Andrea is cute, sweet, but similarly flat. I don't know anything about why she made the choices she did or anything substantial about what Christianity means to her. "I was a cutter...until I met God." So if I am a cutter or some other type of addict and I say that I believe, I'll be healed? Immediately? Did Andrea know something the Christian founders of Alcoholics Anonymous didn't know?

I'm not interested in lecturing you about the morality of abortion, but I will be more than glad to criticize the manner in which it was treated here. There are three types of unintentionally pregnant women in Hollywood: the heartless, thoughtless slut, the overwrought woman who desperately wants to carry to term but who is forced or coerced into abortion and who forever regrets it, and the proud pregnant woman who would NEVER have an abortion, would never even think of it, and how dare you even suggest it! Yet real women of faith, when faced with those decisions, regardless of what they choose, find that they are overwhelmed by all kinds of emotions and that their beliefs and duties conflict with each other. For example, some Christians feel the duty not to kill their unborn child, but they also find that it conflicts with their duty to provide that child with a secure future, obligations to family, friends, self, God, and society. I'd had quite enough with the sermonizing on abortion in Christian film. Whether you are for or against abortion, the subject deserved infinitely more educated, sensitive, and serious treatment that it did.

Furthermore, the most meaningful transformations rarely, if ever, happen at youth groups and the changes are much more substantial than the decision to not drink at a party. They happen unexpectedly in our darkest hour. They involve thoughts, feelings, desires, and fears so intimate that they can only be understood by yourself and God. The latter point is moot because we know so little about the innermost lives of any of the characters. However, it's worth noting that the transformation that happens when Jake is in his darkest hour is the one of least consequence. He witnesses the horrifying suicide of his best friend and feels responsible for causing it, and this ends up being the least important part of the film. It takes a backseat to teen after-school special dramatics.

My world-view is that of a Catholic, so I was expecting some discussion of the morality and stigma of suicide, of sin and confession, and more theology in general. I can't fault the movie, ultimately, for not being what I wanted it to be, but again, I was under the impression that I would find something of this nature and, again, I got something that talked very little about what was advertised.

Which brings me to my last criticism. There is very little serious discussion of religion in this movie aside from Jesus saves and help others. Fair enough, but as Todd Hertz so brilliantly wrote in his review in Christianity Today, the message isn't much different from that of secular films like Mean Girls. Christian movies should have Christian theology, and I don't mean IN YOUR FACE OW! Jesus references, Bible quotes, and instant salvation messages. I mean symbolism, discussion, prayer, and so on. Subtlety. It works.:)

Overall, it's not a hit with me, but you might like it more if you are evangelical.