In "The Sentinel" Michael Douglas stars as a veteran Secret Service agent who comes under suspicion when a plot to assassinate the president is uncovered. Keifer Sutherland plays David Breckinridge, the internal investigator who's assigned to rooting out the mole. Depending on your point of view, Sutherland plays the part to perfection (or to annoyance) as he rushes about with the same intensity (and expressions and gestures and gusto) as his "24" character.

Eva Langoria is the rookie agent who assists Sutherland in his search for the traitor and Kim Basinger plays the weary model wife of the president who has a secret life that might cause her husband political death if it ever comes to light.

This movie, despite it's thrilling trailer and talented cast, hit the box office with a thud. Here are three reasons why:

1. The editing is choppy. Scenes begin and end randomly. Characters move about in inexplicable ways. As you watch the movie you get the impression that about fifteen scenes that would have helped the story make sense were deleted at the last minute.

2. The pacing is uneven. The movie starts out with flashy "kill the president" logos / memos / charts reminiscent of "Seven" but then, it's as if another director picked up the movie in mid-stream and decided not to keep that part of the story going. Often the story lurches forward and then slows to a snail's pace. Weird.

3. The plot is sketchy. We never really learn the motivation for the assassination attempt, the whole subplot with the informant is ridiculous, and rather than frighten us, the bad guys are almost laughable as they stomp around shooting at people.

All of the actors bring an earnestness to the screen and some of the scenes while Douglas is eluding capture are clever, but in the end they're not clever enough to make up for the plot pitfalls.

If you're really looking for a movie about an older Secret Service agent who's trying to protect the president against an elaborate assassination attempt, skip the mediocre "Sentinel" and watch the much better 1993 flick "In the Line of Fire."