This is IMO, the best series of Holmes available of all time. I find the acting is fine, and the classic Holmes content is a beauty.  A strong thread of humor is refreshing, yet not buffoonish. The acting crew is small, but generally excellent. Finding all 39 episodes on a single set at a BARGAIN (under $5 and free shipping) price is simply wonderful! It is of course B&W as expected .. no colorization here :)

edit note: I see the new version is on DVD while my set was on multiple CD's.. the new set seems to be rather more expensive.. I'm not sure I'd recommend it at higher prices.

I've not played through this entire set, but of those seen, they are precisely what is played over our local PBS station as "fillers" to which I've always looked forward. They have the same "film strip" bluriness and fuzzy sound in the credits and the same "breaks" (commercial places?), but the main elements are decent with clear images consistent with the time period.

I also find them to be great for "younger" (7-12 year olds) because of their short (approx 30 min) length, straightforward content, and "classic, decent" portrayals. The logic is concise and clear for young minds (and old too.. hehe) and the humor is actually funny without being demeaning.

Someone had mentioned that it may not be appropriate for children. Perhaps I am too liberally minded, but I can't imagine ANY child who watches tv being "warped" by any of these episodes. The occasional "adult" moments will go right over a child's head (just as it did mine when I was a child) as it is subtly played, unlike most in-your-face tv today. And the "violence" is very low-key and to my memory always off-camera. Aside from an occasional brief bout of fisticuffs, there is no on-screen violence that I recall.

The intro's and a spot here and there are "blemished" by what I would call "hiccups" rather than real issues, but this is after all from very old filmstrips.

Another viewer critiqued the lack of character development and short lengths. This is a valid criticism. They aren't movies, but I still find these shorts to hit the mark for me.

I would give it a 3 stars for quality, but a 5 star for content and value.. I rather arbitrarily put 4 stars overall.. but for me at this price it's a MUST HAVE even if you're not much of a Holmes fan.