I'd like to give this period tv series higher marks; I love Michael Kitchen's wonderfully sympathetic portrayal of Detective Chief Superintendent Christopher Foyle, and Honeysuckle Weeks as Women's Auxiliary driver "Sam" Stewart is delightful.  Their interplay really makes the show.  It just isn't enough (for me) to compensate for many major shortcomings.

As other reviewers have pointed out, the show weaves contemporary (early WWII) social issues into its plots.  Not a bad idea - but handled in such a preachy way here as to be EXTREMELY off-putting.  Why is it wrong for non-essential civilian personnel to live outside the bombing area?  Apparently it's wrong when they rent rooms but ok when they sleep in their cars?!?  Worst of all is Foyle's out-of-character sermonizing, which sometimes takes weird turns, as in the episode where he tells a justice-evading murderer that he'll be on his case when the war's over.  Not only does this make no sense in view of Foyle's previous instructions, but I interpret the capitalist villain's bemused expression to mean "Thanks for the tip, copper, I'll be getting off THIS flight in extradition-free Ireland!!!"  D'oh!  Well, carry on, inspector!

The show's designers are also a bit careless with PHYSICAL period details.  Usually this is pretty minor stuff, but at least once produces a howler.  In the FIFTY_SHIPS episode, after a lengthy sermon on the CRUCIAL importance of not queering a deal to get the first shipment of U.S. military equipment ('even though it's just moldy American rubbish'), we spend the next five minutes of the show looking at a U.S.-made C-47 (cutting edge in 1940) in RAF colours!!!

As other reviewers have also pointed out, the stories are relentlessly pc.  I have no problem with the courage of closeted gays in the services; I'm sure that's true of all armies.  But after seeing the umpteenth evil businessman, prejudiced patriot, and cowardly bourgeois I switched to Sherlock!

The unforgivable sin, however, is the cheesy plotting.  It's not just that it's formulaic and predictable, but logic often gets twisted in pretzels to allow Foyle to 'detect.'  Do you mean to tell me that the police searched the garage but no one thought to look in that big tank until Foyle pulled a Columbo with the tea bag?  Is there a Gosford Park near this police station?

In conclusion, there're FAR superior Brit and, yes, U.S. detective shows out there.  If you like it pc try Morse; if you're into period try Poirot, Wimsey, or the Hickson Marple.  Leave Foyle unless you're desperate!