It seems New Line got too exited after the classic NOES in 1984, and decided to nake a sequel the following year in '85.  All I can say they easily fell in to the the sophmore Jinx trap badly.  They did decide to go to a diffent route in this one, where Freddy posseses a young man's body named Jesse, and needs him  to kill for him.  Although it is not explained why Freddy has to do this in order to scare the springwood children.  The begining of the movie is certainly not bad where Freddy stalks a buch of kids in a school bus, but the movie goes down hill from there.  Jesse, the lead character who's acting was just way too bad soon starts to get all panicky because Freddy keeps stalking him telling him to kill.  We eventually see Freddy come out of Jesse's body and in the realworld in order to kill his friend, and then seems to dissapaer into thin air. This is something impossible if you compare to the rest of the NOES movies.  Freddy has to get pulled out of a dream in order to come into the realworld.  Something else that made no sense was the killing of the gym teacher.  While we are not shown the gym teacher is dreaming and it appears he has no idea who Freddy is, Jesse somehow meets his hated gym teacher in a leather bar,later we see those two at the school gym, with the teacher telling Jesse to do push-ups, and then to hit the showers, while this is happening the Gym teacher is stripped nude, and towels are smacking him in his bare [...], it seemd Freddy was just trying to be funny but they were playing scary music in the backround, how weird.  Later Jesse is found nude in the streets, and is taken home by two cops, what the?  Also, a few things that happened on the side make no sense as well,such as a parakeet combusting in thin air, in Jesse's house, amd the home temp suddenly becoming way over a 100 degrees.  Freddy is obviously up to this but has not reached the real world yet.  Finally the ending is where things really get messy.  Freddy decides to invade a pool party that Jesse is invited to, again nobody is dreaming and pulls him out of the dream, but Freddy somehow appears into and out of the realworld, which makes no sense.  The overall acting in this movie is just horrible.  Another thing is that they make Freddy look a little to demonic in this.  This movie lacks the brilliant directing, acting and suspense from the NOES.  The fact that the creator and director of the first NOES Wes Crven did not wan't to be involved in this movie and eventually decided to get involved in the third, is a slap to the face on this movie.  Going back to what I said, the second NOES flick has sophmore Jinx written all over it.