This movie is a terrifying specimin of early 21st century establishment sponsored racial mind control and social engineering. Something akin to the mental climate it engineers must have occured in 1930s Gerany. It smacks of soviet agitprop. The nominal subject of the movie is conflict between a narcisistic drug addled daughter just out of rehab and her yuppie family on the day of her sister's marriage. But the dominant subtext, pounded home ad nauseam and with ever accelerating blatency,is the dynamics of the pending black/white inter racial marriage, and the miraculous new age harmony between bride, groom, and both families, presumably newly met. The bride Rachel's family are wealthy Conneticut super wasps, "California perfect" people, NPR clones, full of family conflict but politically correct down to their toes. The black groom's family is a collection of positive p.c. cliches not to be believed. There's the clean cut brother soldier home from the war, the hip smart sister, the long suffering all wise matriarch, several obviously well placed employed males...on and on they go. There are smart witty gays at the wedding, there are smart witty asians. everyone is wittier than thou. There are no jews that i could identify, but one jewish family is there, the Rosenblatts. We dont get to meet them, but the father of the bride does mention them as he plans to seat them at the back of the room near the kitchen. He snidely states that they are not actually friends of the family, just neighbors that they've had to suffer for 20 years. Thus one ray of authenic Connecticut waspness penetrates this pc fantacy. Oddly, it's in harmony with the BBC/ NPR's increasing hostility to Isreal as it tries to defend itself from 2 million hostile and frequently murderous Muslims. What a seamless world is the American power elete. If anyone has'nt noticed that black American males now have open access to white females, the groom corrects that by kissing and fondling his intended bride with a frequency rarely seen outside bonobo troupes. Johnathan Demme directs this clap trap; that fact makes the whole thing that much scarrier as a phenominum of public mind control.

Before the pc possee saddles up to come after me, I'd just like to state that I'm a card carrying environmentalist from 1950 on, hate Bush, love Carter, fought for equal civil rights under law before there was black power, etc etc.  But i give this gobbler an F.