This is one of the most satisfying films I have seen in a long time as one of my close friends says worthy to take its place next to "Lonesome Dove, The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, The Shootist, Quigley Down Under, The Fastest Gun Alive, Outlaw Jose Wales, and other Superb Western films." It is a morality drama of the highest order and certainly one of the top ten westerns of all time. The acting was just stupendous and I agree with you about Robert Duvall. Kevin Costner and Annette Benning were wonderful. Perhaps with age I grown to appreciate the beauty of older women and I was happy to find in Annette Benning a woman I could relate to instead of the standard cutsy barbie doll types. Certainly the movie is beyond realism with the two heroes single handedly wiping out what must have been anywhere between 12 to 20 bad guys in the end. However, the key here is that we were set up to want to believe it and it was `oh, so satisfying' to see justice meted out. 
The cinematography was fabulous at it usually is with Kevin Costner films. I sort of doubt that it will happen but i think this movie is academy award stuff that gets my vote over the other wonderful movie, Seabiscuit. Both movies are the stuff of high heroic drama, with the message of 'triumph over adversity' or 'triumph over evil.' 
Open Range makes you go away with such a deeply satisfying feeling. It delivers on every score, its well paced, action packed, great to look at, some of the greatest acting ever. The message may seem commonplace but somehow one didn't mind because it was so well executed so that one literally could lose themselves in the characters of Robert Duvall, Kevin Costner, Annette Benning and Michael Jeeter. It resonated with high human ideals and virtues that too often seem out of place in our more cynical world. 
I heard that one or two say how it was slow and boring at first and that important aspects of the plot were not set up enough.  In general I wonder if this movie would appeal to guys more than women or to the younger set not accustomed to old fashioned westerns? Like a good Greek tragedy, certain assumptions were made, one being that we know from the very beginning the difference between the good guys and the bad. 
This movie is high entertainment and definitely academy award material.