Wow. Simply wow. Remake? please. It's a remake in that the film makers take a Hitchcock film, add in a bunch of rubbish chick flick scenes, high-tension instrumental music with the ever so clich&eacute; timed crescendos, and advertise it as a thriller. Give it a mysterious, exotic sounding name like Disturbia and you guarantee a box office hit for fools. Seriously, Hollywood, the people-popping-out-of-nowhere kind of scares is stupid and lame. Stop doing it. That's not a thriller. That's like a twelve year old kid hiding behind a door and yelling boo right when you walk in and getting a boner off how much of a scaredy cat you are. DJ Caruso ought to be ashamed. This should've won the raspberry for the worst editing job in the history of cinematography. The first twenty minutes of Disturbia were an absolute waste of time. The whole part with Shia getting father and son time, then showing all the traumatic experience of his father getting killed - seriously just cut it down to five minutes and get on with the suspense, speaking of which is virtually nonexistent. The relationship between Ashley and Kale, however, was something the director decided to develop upon quite thoroughly. . . IN A THRILLER?! Are you kidding me, if this is a thriller then so is Scary Movie.

I watched the "Bart of Darkness" Simpsons episode so I know basically what's about to happen. Main character is somehow stuck inside his house, he suspects his neighbor of murder, goes to investigate and bad guy goes down. The only thing different here is a hot girl is added into the mix. Do thrillers these days work on craft anymore? Or do they rely on the marketing team to advertise a potentially good plot to cover for bad direction and a hopeless script? I can't say it was the acting. The script was so terrible I'm not sure if high profile actors like Shia LaBoeuf were needed.

In both Transformers and Disturbia, they decided to add unbelievably hot women to act as Shia's strangely empowered bimbo. Basically they serve no other role than the fodder for the pubescent boys part of the audience who have nothing but to masturbate to sensually clad models and side boob shots or other such implicit nudity. Cheesy "The Notebook" inspired lines like "when I look at into the world I'm only looking at you" - then they go upstairs to makeout - make it hard to believe otherwise. And seriously all those shots of the hot girl taking her top off, doing yoga, changing into her bikini like she's a penthouse model - lame. What a cheap move to attract the testosterone induced mass. The most injurious slight about this is it's PG-13. Yea like Alexander Pope said, "Drink deep or taste not the Pierian Spring."

I'm sorry to give it one star. I'd love to give a film whose plot had so much promise two stars, but the only thing motivating to finish this movie after the first thirty minutes was so I have the right to criticize it. Characters were so pathetic, I didn't give a damn if the bad guy actually killed them off. And thanks for making these films so realistic. I wish a hot girl like that would move in next door to me so I can deliver some cheesy one liners and therefore fool her into thinking I'm a sensitive nice guy who wants more than to have sex with her.