I too was curious about this release.  What was different in this release vs. the 2-sided DVD released by MGM in 2002 and now out of print?  I have both and they are different.  The 2002 release was a 2-sided DVD, one side was standard, the other side was widescreen with some extras on both side.  The 2002 version has about a 15 minute version of outtakes and dailies with no sound.  In here we see lots of outtakes from the horrible murder of Phyllis.  Lots of fake looking footage of Sadie caressing Phyllis' innards, something only glimpsed for a second or two in the movie.  Nasty stuff for sure.  Also on the 2002 release is a featurette "Forbidden Footage".  Its about 10 minutes long and consists mostly of Wes and Sean discussing how prints of the movie came back all chopped up from irate theater owners and religious folk who were horrified by some of the footage.

This new 1-sided 2009 release has a much better documentary titled "Celluloid Crime of the Century" that was produced in 2002 in the UK and runs about 40 minutes.  Jeramie Rain (Sadie) looks fabulous in her fifties and it contains interviews with Wes, Sean, David Hess, Fred Lincoln and Marc Sheffler (you'd never recognize him) but the poor girls are not included.  The outtakes and dailies from the 2002 version are not on this DVD and neither is "Forbidden Footage".  But there is new footage never seen before that also has no sound.  There is a lot of nudity in this footage from the scenes where Mari and Phyllis are forced to make it with each other in the woods and it also contains (soft-core) scenes of Sadie performing oral sex on Mari. (Are they selling this at Wal Mart??)  There is also an extra scene of the parents finding Mari alive by the lake, kind of like what they did in the remake.  There are a couple of other extras too:  some short film made by Wes which I haven't yet watched and another chat with Wes that must have been made recently because he discusses the new remake and how he came to produce it.  He really liked the new remake, more than I could say.  IMHO, the new one isn't nearly as sick and disgusting as the original.

So the difference is in the extras.  The movie appears to be the exact same version on both.