Arnold finally returns as the Terminator on a mission to save a "squemish" John Connor (Nick Stahl), and a few others including Claire Daines (far more impressive performance than Stahl's). Cameron didn't return to direct or co-write this inferior "sequel" to T2: Judgement Day and it showed. Kristanna Loken as the TX was a great idea but her performance (nothing wrong with her at all--just didn't think any woman could really portray this role like Robert Patrick flawlessly did) was flawed by allowing her to be so easily damaged and relied too heavily on CGI effects. Robert Patrick's performance in T2: Judgement Day was far more impressive: he lacked all emotion, acted human only when needed to, and was brutally ruthless. Loken was brutally ruthless but didn't evoke the fear Robert Patrick's Terminator did. Also, for $170 million dollars, couldn't they come up with some better action? T2 was far superior in this regard, and James Cameron only spent $90 million on it. The cool stunts just weren't there and nether was the great character development (Linda Hamilton wasn't invited to the party and killed off strangely). Claire Danes gave the best performance and Loken attempted greatly to pull off the Terminatrix role (some better writing for her character probably would have done it). Action missing: T2's Patrick flying out of an exploding building to take over a chopper, the ensuing chase scene involving the chopper, and the great scene of the Truck exploding through the concrete rail, and Arnold launching his motorcylce off the (well, you get the idea). Also missing was the cool transformations he did into others and how they reacted. Why not show Loken doing that more (or even once for that matter)? Also, a better plot would have made it better. Compared to the first two, T3 failed to rise in character development (Stahl was a geeky Connor with none of the brew of Edward Furlong in T2), action and stunts, and, of course, blowing the opportunity to make the TX a really cool compliment to a superior Robert Patrick's evil charcterization. Again, not Loken's fault, it was the screenwriter's fault. It is worth a watch but fans of the original two will notice all the missing elements that made the first two great (on much, much smaller budgets). -Felecia Constance Rowe