Format: Movie
Director: Alfred Hitchcock
Distributor: Sono Art-World Wide Pictures
Release Date: June 30, 1929

This movie is about a woman named Alice White who ends up going to an artist's house. The artist, Mr. Crewe, attempts to rape her but she defends herself with a knife which ends up killing the man. So her and her boyfriend (a detective by the name of Frank Webber) attempt to cover up the murder of Mr. Crewe. That is until another man named Tracy has evidence that Alice did it so he tries to blackmail them. The question is how Alice and Frank will deal with this blackmailer. So I find this film as having a very entertaining and interesting plot with lots of twists and turns. It kept me entertained throughout the entire film.

The acting in the film is a weird case because all of the actors do a great job except for Anny Ondra who happens to be in the lead role as Alice. She had a strong Czech accent so she ended up lip synching to another actress who was speaking next to the camera which really makes Anny's performance seem a little awkward. And other than just that she really doesn't display her emotions very well. Thankfully the other actors seem to pick up most of the slack. John Longden plays Frank Webber and he gets the emotions of being concerned and nervous across very well. And finally there is Donald Calthrop plays Tracy and really seems like a creepy guy and a criminal which means that he did a great job in his role.

When it comes to sound this is Alfred Hitchcock's entry into sound cinema Blackmail ends up being a little bit of a hybrid. It was originally going to be a silent film until it was later changed into a sound one, at which point the small amount of already finished footage was dubbed and the remaining footage was filmed with sound. This makes the original silent parts seem a little awkward with only a few things having sound in these scenes while everything else is silent. During the parts where there is dialogue and things like that it works out well but music rarely overlaps with dialogue which is a shame that they couldn't have figured that out yet with these early talkies. The music seems to work very well though which is good. And the special effects are great for 1929 as it makes a lot of the scenes look pretty real for the time.

So in conclusion this film is really an experiment with sound and a lot of the technical aspects of the film certainly show it. However, the story is good enough where it shines through the problems of early sound plus the acting is top notch (with the exception of Anny Ondra). Sound may not blend seamlessly into the movie but it definitely enhances one of the better Hitchcock films.
Score: 8/10