Billy Wilders "WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION" (1957)

The great movie "Witness for the Prosecution" (1957), directed by Billy Wilder, with Charles Laughton, Marlene Dietrich and Tyrone Powers, has finally found a Korean producer. Wether this producer has manufactured all kinds of different DVDs or whether he was just careless with the product description on the back of the DVD cover I cannot determine. But - there are no English subtitles, in spite of what sellers and the DVD Cover itself promises. At least not on the DVD I bought.

Since the reviews on specified DVD are sometimes mixed into the reviews of other DVDs featuring the same movie, let's establish clearly, what DVD we're talking about. It is this one:

Actors: Charles Laughton, Tyrone Power, Marlene Dietrich
Format: NTSC, Black & White, Import
Language: English, French
Subtitles: English, Korean
Region: All Regions
ASIN: B00420S36M

If you enlarge the product picture you can see two small Asian signs, probaby Korean, directly under the word "PROSECUTION". Under the "PR" of "PROSECUTION, to be exact. As age guideline we have the mark "15" in the lower right corner of the front DVD cover.

The technical quality of the film is alright. The same goes for the sound, although the actors, especially Laughton, tend to mumble and crumble their words in their mouths. So - subtitles would have been helpful. That's precisely why I bought this version, having already another one by a German manufacturer in my possession which did not bear any help for the Heard of Hearing, aka SDH, aka 'Subs'.

If you buy a DVD for the Subs, the English subtitles, on it, it is pretty annoying, if you find out lateron, there are none. In this case, there are French subtitles - French! - to the English movie. I guess, that's okay if you're French.
So although this is surely a very good movie, fun to watch, with a surprise ending, an entertaining piece of cinematic handicraft bringing Agatha Christies dramatic tale convincingly to the screen, and so on and so forth, I'd advise you not to buy it, if you need English subtitles.
There are no extras on the DVD. Just the movie, with the original soundtrack and with French and Korean subtitles.
Mm.