Jackass wasn't very revolutionary, it was just popular. The invention of Viva La Bam was genius, being everything Jackass was not. The funniest part of any Jackass episode was the CKY/Bam stunts, so naturally an MTV show of his own was in order.

Viva started out pretty great. The first season easily being the best. But it seems once Bam got ahold of his new mansion and let fame get to his head, the show went downhill. Each episode since has been gradually worse than the last.

In seasons 4 and 5, we are reduced to watching a posed "reality TV" sequence of stunts, that were obviously planned by the producers. Take the first episode, Viva La Europe for instance. We are made to believe theat Bam didn't know his parents were headed to Europe, this whole scene was obviously staged. He goes to Europe and some reality ensues, only to follow with more staged acting and creative editing by the crew. My favorite instance is the Billy Idol episode on season 5. Wow. Bam does a convincing acting job pretending to just "come up" with the idea of sawing off the roof of the lamboghini. Idol, however, isn't as convincing and hopefully never appears in a feature movie role (aside from Wedding Singer). Glomb magically shows up with a saw to cut off the roof. Ooooo! How Crazy!! Lame as hell.

The 2 seasons drone on, and we are forced to watch how "crazy" the CKY crew has become. What happened to the random stunts these talented guys used to pull? Who wants to watch 30 mins of planned out events and bad acting? If I had a million dollars and time to plan, I could wreck a house with a crane, too. But I wouldn't pretend that I was in a "war" with Mike Vallely (horrible actor as well) and tape it, pawning it off as original and spontanious.

The only believeable characters in this show are Phil and (most of the time) Ape. Unless the rest of the crew can go back to what they were doing 10 years ago, they have lost any credibility in my mind. Complete phonies. Might as well do a sitcom. It'd be the same thing.