The reviews I've read here for Makavejev's films all sadden me, but then, so do the films themselves, now. This is too bad, because Sweet Movie and WR both made me terribly happy and optimistic when I first saw them in art-house sixteen millimeter, and both have made the digital transition without significant loss. I note that a couple of the other reviewers remember scenes that have disappeared or been shortened. I also have vague feelings of loss, but am not so sure what's missing is in the film itself, or in the context.

Most of my own sadness comes from knowing how many of the participants in both projects are dead now. I can't help that, any more than other reviewers can help not knowing and not much caring. Partly that's because the two films (that blend into one over time) were so largely documentary, full of people playing themselves. All old art is a graveyard, but these films are like the home movies of a moment in left art culture, and have become Vanitas objects, in which the escapes from death that art and sex allow are drawn to their instructive conclusion.

What also saddens me is reading how many think these films were "experimental," and/or even continue to be "experimental" today. That was not and is not the case. They are much more theatrical than just about any "experimental" films of that time or of ours. It's easier to talk about them in Theater language than in Film language: they are mostly exercises in Brechtian epic theater, which has room within it for both documentary and real-life (real people just being themselves) inclusions. To people who had read Brecht, Boal (not in books yet then, but in articles), Grotowski or Peter Brook (lots of namedropping here but you're in Amazon so you can just look the books up now) none of the supposedly jarring shifts or shocking images were terribly jarring or shocking. To anyone brought up with the Germ Theory of Medicine as a kind of family religion, [...] play will always be an aesthetic frontier, no matter how many times you see it. But shock? Really?

The presence of documentary footage (exhumations at Katyn) and acted-out daily life (of the Muehl Commune) distances all the theatrical gore; it spreads the narrative space so there's lots of room for shifts back and forth, as text, countertext and gloss change places, lucky-pierre style. But again, that distancing is part of the normal equipment of sixties theater; something of which we'd all seen a lot (We had, hadn't we? Am I just making this up?) when these films first began touring the art houses and campus cinemas.

Maybe the best way to recuperate the past that's largely dead within these films (that doesn't make it bad; just dead) would be to translate them back into live theater. The Katyn footage could be projected onstage as an instructive cinema window into the past, as could the Reich footage that so irritates the Reichians by its presence in WR. Where to place the late Muehl Commune in representational space between art and life remains a puzzle, but the rest of both films sits comfortably within epic theater in its seventies version: the Berkeley Mime Troupe. A musical!  A Broadway musical! Why not? LIke Hair, but with hair. One change I'd make, with which few would agree would be to replace the soulfully beautiful Ms. Laure (who has publicly regretted her work in this project, particularly the chocolate scene) with Karen Finley, thus bringing the performance forward in time, at least as far as the 1990's.