This film comes off a slick marketing stunt and skin-deep alibi for why the NY Times - called "the Grey Lady" in its heyday - fell on its own double-edged corporate media sword. It denies the stunt with a bit of skill over the usual reasons for failure (paradigm shift of online news, web classifieds competition, etc.)

A good deal of the story is told through the NY Times and life of former drug addict turned rehabbed and righteous reporter - David Carr. Choosing this kind of character to build sympathy for a corporate product is a very old PR tactic. The pick of what seems an everyday hardworking ex-loser as spokesman to buff-clean the toxic NYT "news" record could hardly be accidental.

Now to the core reasons for the fall...

NYT's utterly phony "reporting" on the need for an Iraq War by a "she-acted-alone" scapegoat operation starring Judith Miller goes well beyond the inexcusable. This is as close to a criminal act for any news source in memory (a million plus dead in Iraq along with thousands of Americans over a trillion dollars in blood money to a swollen Big Oil military-security complex). Withholding the story of illegal spying on American citizens by Bush/Cheney to insure Bush victory for 2004 is another obvious example for why the paper has vaporized most of its credibility.

To suggest as others have that "everyone else in the media was doing it" and nobody else knew better is an arrant crock for a transparently cooked "war on terror" (backed by 935 official lies passed on by the U.S. corporate media as of 2008 according to the Center for Public Integrity). Bloggers all over the web were posting real reporting as opposed to NY Times fraud and deception on Iraq. This, without the vast budget and resources of the NY Painted Hooker. (The facts were available from people like UNSCOM inspector Scott Ritter)

A sample of the NYT being busted for soiling itself in action...

The NYT "Covers" the Susan Lindauer Hearing
[...]
Yeah, the NY Times occasionally turns in a good story but when the bought message becomes the medium, it's not worth the paper it's no longer printed on. No, the NY Times is not uniquely crooked. But it has become the Tokyo Rose of the corporate media snake pit.

Cute moments aside, this film is whitewashed propaganda.