The original Death Race (2008) was directed by Paul W.S. Anderson, and made with a modest $45 million budget. It pulled in only $36 million in the US, and about $80 million worldwide, which would be just enough to cover the cost (remember, movie theaters get half of your ticket price). It was marketed as a remake of the original film, Death Race 2000 (1975), though Anderson has referred to it as more of a prequel. Apparently DVD sales were strong enough to warrant a sequel, but its straight-to-DVD nature really limits its scope. Several aspects of the plot are never made clear, the writing is really bad in spots, and it takes way to long to even get to the racing, especially when your movie has the word "race" in the title. Plus, most people are not going to be aware that this is actually made to be a PREQUEL to both original movies. But, it still is a somewhat enjoyable ride.

Luke Goss does a good job as the main character. He's a very likable character, and even though he's in prison for a good reason, there's enough development for him where you still root for him and don't want to see him hurt. Some of the action screens are fairly decent, but i really think that they're much better designed in the last Death Race (2008) movie. But what really hurts this movie is the pacing and writing. In fact, it takes just under 50 minutes for the movie to FINALLY mention the idea of even having a Death Race! That's half the runtime. Then 5 minutes later all of our characters are in there first race! There's absolutely no buildup to the racing: we never see the teams working on the cars, we never see them deciding the best weapons to use, they never explain the rules of the race, and the first time the get to their cars each one has an inmate from the woman's prison ward inside -- but the movie never gives a reason for this. We only see two races the during the last half of the movie, then we get a plot twist that may or may not sit well with the audience, an once things finally start to really get going -- bam, end credits.

I liked the main characters enough, but over half the movie doesn't even MENTION the idea of the Death Race concept, and by the time we get to see it, it hits you with an abrupt ending that lets you realize its actually a prequel. Even the writing is going to have you scratching your head a few times. I really recommend picking up the Death Race (2008) movie, and even the original, Death Race 2000 (1975). For both, the entire movie centers around the racing, the characters or more memorable, there are some decent action sequences, and they both leave you wanting more. And after that, then go ahead and get Death Race 2. I know, I just got done picking on it, but it really is still fun. The action isn't too bad, the main characters all have a reason for there motivations (minus one or two), and if all else fails -- it will make you want the watch the other two Death Race movies again.