This first X-rated film to get the Best Picture nod begins at the base of the pyramid, and climbs topward. Psychologist Herbert Maslow constructed an "Hierarchy of Needs" in the mid 20th c. At the base of Maslow's symbolic pyramid were things such as oxygen, food, shelter, love.....etc. Things all men need to survive...Joe Buck hated the desert. In Texas, he was just another dishwasher; but in his mind, "I'm a stud!". Joe had been sexually abused by his grandmother when he was ten. She called him "stud". Joe Buck hated the desert...The scratchy 102.7; "Hi. Larry? I moved to New York after my divorce hoping to find a real man. A man with strong legs, and a hard back. Larry? Why is New York all faggots?" 102.7 was Joe Buck's favorite station. He sure felt sorry for those New York divorcees and pledged to himself that he would help these older women. Help them with his strong legs, and his hard back. Joe Buck packed his stuff and got on the Greyhound. On the way, he listened to the scratchy 102.7..."I'm a God-damned stud I am. A God-damned stud! And a hustler too!"..The children of New York stole more from him than his money. One little boy stole something from Joe that Joe could never get back. Even his ever-worshipping "starving" old ladies took his body and soul; even his money. Then they hung him out to dry. In desperate need of shelter, Joe turns to petty thief Ratso Rizzo for help. Ratso Rizzo was a member of the New York Symphony of poverty and hopelessness. Ratso was good at both. Joe needed him. Joe was more than broke. The children of New York stole more from him than his money...Professor Maslow had postulated that man will do anything to survive. Oxygen, food, shelter, love....these are the basics. Joe was still at the food and shelter level...Together, Joe and Ratso tested pity, learned of want and greed, taught each other the fine art of failure, and formed a most unlikely friendship. Day and night rarely live together in the same abandoned slum. But for oxygen, food, shelter..... Both wanted more. Pride. Recognition. Plea. Overwhelmed by the banquet of nothingness they bought to the table, finally they learn of each others true dreams. Thier bus tickets bore the time-honored stamp of Mickey Mouse. They were going to Florida to catch that dream before it vanished...Psychologist Herbert Maslow considered love to be a basic need, yet he also believed love was a necessary component of the self, the actualization of all a man can be. Without love, Maslow felt, man would never be motivated to learn what fueled thier motives. Thus, they would evaporate in denial and self-loathe; without ever testing the truth...Very near thier destination, the truth explodes like a hidden mine. Constellations re-write. Nothing smells the same. Things get different..."Everybody's talkin' at me, I don't hear a word they're sayin', just the echos....."