The film's director's Father was a Greek communist who was booted out of Greece with his red brothers when the Greeks settled that issue once and for all. This movie is blatantly sympathetic to the communist movement that was so ruthlessly put down by Pinochet in Chile. So to appeal to an American audience, the director tries his best to make the us feel sorry for this naïve American Harvard grad because he was arrested and executed by Pinochet's government for overtly aiding the Chilean communists through his little red attic newspaper. And what's worse, the film makes the ridiculous assertation that the US government gave the green light for our little red friend's exectution.
The problem is, the kid's death was nobody's fault but his own. He was a typical spoiled, rich, 60s-70s, lefty radical from the U.S. who became enamored with the romantic ideals of communism and gave his life, quite literally, trying to support it. He thought he could spit in the face of the man with the gun while chanting "Nana Nana Na Na, you can't touch me." Well that may work here in the U.S., but when you do that in a rightwing military dictatorship where they don't have Habeas Corpus, a Bill of Rights, etc., you are asking to get killed, and that's exactly what he got. And who do they maker's of this movie blame, the kid? No! The U.S. government! Unwittingly, the director refuted his own nonsensical theme when he put the only intelligent line in the whole movie in the mouth of the "evil" state department official when he explained that someone who went to New York to challenge the Mafia would be stupid to expect the government to prevent him from getting killed. Exactly.
And incidentally, when in power, the communists that the makers of this film sympathize with, who were backed by the Soviet Empire, are every bit as brutal and thuggish as the right wing dictatorships we backed. Any left wing sympathizer would do well to realize, that by backing the rightwing dictatorships, we kept the Soviets out of Central and South America, and if you don't think the countries are better off for it, take a look at the newly released records of the Stasie, and the Gulag.