I only vaguely remember having played the original Max Payne video game--that the movie brings back any of those memories is to its credit; that it doesn't really live up to those memories is only an expected letdown.  I wanted to see a little more of the game's comic-book feel up on my new HDTV, and I imagine people who even half-remember the game were hoping the movie had taken a few more pointers from the film adaptation of Frank Miller's Sin City.  The film does open with a little of that influence, but quickly gives up trying to integrate it into its cookie-cutter shoot-'em-up script.

But even if the film wasn't as noir as its source material, it still nailed some impressive visuals (I consider it both a plus and a minus that if you've only seen the trailers, you've already seen most of them.)  The demonic hallucinations of the drug Valkyr remind me of one of my B-movie favorites--The Prophecy with Christopher Walken--and are neatly incorporated into the action.  The snow flying off the slide of a fired handgun is a bit of poetry appropriate to the game's Hong Kong action influences.  And while The Matrix's "bullet time" effect has become something of a clich&eacute; since Max Payne was the first video game to introduce it to that medium, it's used in the movie subtly and sparingly enough that it's not terribly obtrusive.

Beyond the visuals, any other commentary about this movie is really just a footnote.  The story holds pretty closely to the game's, but loses the pulp dialogue and occult elements that added a lot of texture and tension to the original work.  Together, the story, dialogue and acting don't really rise above what you expect out of a Hollywood shoot-'em-up (Mila Kunis is just a touch over her head as a mob hit-person who doesn't even get a name until about 45 minutes into the film; Mark Wahlberg doesn't really go above-and-beyond in the film's title role, and that's coming from a fan of his stuff), but I'll bet you probably knew that already.  If that's something you can live with, you should enjoy Max Payne at least as a rental.  If you expect your blockbuster action movies to adhere to laws of physics or common sense, a viewing of Live Free or Die Hard should break you of that unfortunate habit.

As a Blu-Ray, this movie looks great.  Visible film grain was only a little noticeable to me in one or two flashback scenes where the colors were a little brighter than in the rest of the film.  Being a flashback, that grain might have been intentional (I doubt it), and it's barely worth mentioning either way.  Starting up the disc on my PS3, I literally only had long enough to remember that people had an issue with Blu-Ray loading times before the disc was up and running.

It's no great surprise that a video game led to a generally unremarkable movie tie-in; what surprised me was that this movie held enough visual treats to make it worth watching all the way through.  If that's all you're after, or if you're willing to settle for a small part of what made the video game stand out, I'd say Max Payne is worth your while.