I had missed this movie when it played in theaters, so when it was available at a local Redbox rental machine for $1, I was eager to see it. After watching this movie and being utterly unimpressed by it, I was curious to know what other viewers had to say about it.  So I started reading the one-star reviews here.  I didn't have to read too far to see that these people had essentially the same reaction to "Quantum of Solace" as I did.  It was a huge disappointment.  I will not repeat much of what other reviewers have already said in both an eloquent and humorous manner.  See, for instance, Francisco J. Calderon's review entitled "Sputum of Nonsense" dated April 2, 2009.  He boils the movie down to a "bottom ten" list that is both accurate and engaging, and I think he is right on target with his appraisal of the movie.

Other one-star reviewers have (correctly) pointed out that the action sequences are too fast and tend to give the viewer vertigo.  Here is where I wish to add my own two cents' worth about the movie, since Bond movies have historically been known--at least in part--for their keenly-executed action sequences.  Now I do realize that when you see a movie you may have to suspend belief to a degree, but this movie pushes the envelope entirely beyond the limits of plausibility.  I found the action sequences to be so incredibly unrealistic that they actively detracted from the movie.  (Please note:  In describing various scenes below, I cannot avoid including material that constitutes a degree of movie spoiler.  Read on at your own discretion.) For instance:

(1) About 10 or 12 minutes into the movie, Bond runs after an assassin/double agent.  The chase takes them through underground tunnels, public crowds, housing complexes, and finally a building with interior scaffolding.  The amount of "acrobatics" that each man performs--the villain to elude capture and Bond trying to catch him--would be nearly impossible even for Superman to accomplish.  The two men ultimately fall down from a height through plate glass windows at the top of this building onto the scaffolding, and they end up swinging around on the scaffolding, dodging falling metal and broken glass, in an attempt to dispatch each other.  Each man would have been dead several times over from virtually any of the injuries/impacts sustained during the chase, but somehow Bond not only manages to kill his assailant, he even walks away from it.

(2) Believing he is preventing her death, Bond snatches a woman from a boat and takes her into his own boat and tries to escape.  Of course there are plenty of bad guys with lots of automatic weapons and far superior boats that chase after them, but Bond manages to conveniently outmaneuver them and dodge all the bullets.  Even though his boat crashes into the other boats several times and the steering wheel center on his boat is riddled with bullets and torn up (of course not rendering his boat useless), once again Bond manages to safely escape.

(3) Bond charters a beat-up cargo plane that he himself flies.  Naturally the bad guys are again in hot pursuit.  This time, the villains have a smaller and far more maneuverable plane that attempts to shoot them down, eventually with the help of an attack helicopter.  It goes without saying that Bond is able to overcome insuperable odds and survive, but what makes this sequence particularly ridiculous is that Bond and Camille are eventually forced to jump out of the plane--with only one parachute that Bond had moments ago given to Camille, only to discover that there is not a second one for him.  The two tumble through the air trying to regain composure and stability, and once Bond grasps on to Camille, the parachute magically opens...about 10 feet from the ground.  The viewer is expected to believe that not only will one parachute adequately support the weight of two people, it will still sufficiently slow their descent even when deployed about one second from impact on the ground.  Give me a break.  (No pun intended.)

(4) Bond meets CIA agent Felix in a rather run-down bar (some kind of hotel lobby?), only to discover that he has been set up and there are lots of Special Ops kinds of dudes rapidly bearing down on him (he literally has only seconds to spare), all wielding the latest in weapon technology.  Surprisingly (sarcasm intended), Bond manages to simply run away from them.

(5) In a fight scene involving Bond and Dominic Greene, Greene picks up a piece of metal railing (essentially, a two-foot long piece of pipe) and nails Bond with direct blows four or five times.  In a scene reminiscent of the old Channel 47-style wrestling, where one guy is beaten to a pulp by the other and then magically gets up to inflict the same injury to his opponent, Bond is almost entirely unharmed by the pipe, and he gets up and...well, you can figure out the scene's resolution.

One other aspect of the movie I found distracting and detrimental was that Bond was beaten-up, bloodied, disheveled, wounded, and raggedy for a significant portion of the movie.  What ever happened to the "old-style" Bond who after doing away with his adversary simply straightened out his tuxedo and was entirely presentable again, ready to drink his shaken martini and woo the beautiful lady?

Daniel Craig definitely brings a different kind of Bond character to the screen, but I was so busy being annoyed at how poorly this film was done that I didn't really take much notice of his performance.  Maybe that, too, says something.  The bottom line is that you definitely don't want to buy this movie. If you *must* see it, try borrowing from your library or finding a cheap rental before spending money on it.  You may be thankful you did.