This story begins promisingly with a young parapsychologist leaving her home in Salem, Oregon and driving to Arizona to investigate a supposedly haunted house.  She gets the scoop from a relative who briefly relates the story of the slain Mastersons. We already know about the killings because of an attention-grabbing opening sequence. The lady doc and three accomplices settle in for the spooky doings.  The other three ghost hunters are a TV cameraman with a bunch of equipment that seems to break down in key places, an ethnic newspaper woman from the town, and an apparently eccentric young woman who is having problems with her periods.
With the introduction of the young woman, problems begin with the storyline.  She is supposedly an ardent Christian because she carries her Bible around and keeps saying that the Mastersons were good people and the ghost hunters are wretched vile heathens trying to tear their image apart.
As the apparitions become more noticeable and the living characters become more irritable from lack of sleep, we learn through visions and accidental discoveries that the Masterson family was truly disturbed.  In a lengthy explanatory passage at the end, the "whole story" is brought out.  Whether you accept it or not depends on your reaction to the movie to this point.
This movie plays as a combination of Blair Witch, The Exorcist, and Casper the Friendly Ghost.  I did not get the creepy disembodied feeling that these other-worldly apparitions were truly harmful, although one of them has a problem with anger management.  We know pretty much what happened because of the opening sequence.  This leaves us focusing on the people in the present, and they are not a promising lot.
The young woman parapsychologist follows the time honored pattern of the spiritual guru who has all the answers.  She sometimes sounds like the diminutive exorcist in Spielberg's "Poltergeist."  The TV cameraman smokes a lot and often says, "You better come down and see this," and "My battery just went dead." He is the only male in an otherwise entirely female drama. He is much more interesting when he is looking through his camera than when the camera is on him. The ethnic news reporter is there for her filthy language and arguments with the young Christian zealot. The real problem, however, is this crazy young woman who is supposed to represent the church that the Mastersons attended.  She is vacuous, irritating and purposeless, but as the movie progresses, she steals center-stage from the ghost hunters.  Trouble is, there really isn't anything "in" this character except her lunatic-fringe Christian diatribes.
It may be true in this politically correct world that ethnic minorities and the mentally and physically challenged are not proper objects of ridicule.  This seems to leave Christians as fair game.  In an adaptation of one of Stephen King's novels (The Fog), the chief antagonist is another Bible-spouting fanatic.  As we learn in the Masterson saga, the lord of the manor is a hypocritical sex-fiend, and his wife is a repressed, neurotic psycho who makes love with her head in a box.  However, these revelations, which should carry some conviction and drama, seem to be thrown in just to make the movie more lurid.  Yeah, yeah:  Christians are all a bunch of hypocrites.  (And they tend to agree and say, "There's always room for one more!) So what?  Is this the purpose of the movie:  Christian bashing?  It's the old wacko, hypocritical, Bible-thumping, fire-and-brimstone caricature that's been around since the Pilgrims landed.
Therefore, I believe that the central aspect of the movie, the damn-the-hypocritical Christians, is lame,easy, soft, cheesy, unconvincing, you name it.  It's always easier to stereotype people rather than create real, three-dimensional characters.  The movie takes an easy way out.
We become involved with characters when we understand them and identify with them.  Caricatures are just that:  two dimensional targets which pander to people's prejudices.
This house is supposedly one of the ten most haunted houses in America.  This movie is haunted by bad acting, poor character development, stereotyping and aimlessness.  The so-called explanation doesn't really explain anything.  And why isn't this key character wandering around the house?  She should feel right at home with the other crazy, two-dimensional fanatics.