Titan A.E. is visually stunning but lacks in just about everything else.  The music is both an original score switching off with contemporary rock including Lit's pop-rock "Over My Head" and Jamiroquai and Luscious Jackson hidden (or maybe obscured is a better word) throughout the movie.  This just doesn't work.  The voices of such talents as Matt Damon, Bill Pullman, Drew Barrymore, Janeane Garofalo and Nathan Lane also lack the spark that they usually have (with possibly the exception of Pullman) in traditional movies, possibly because as Barrymore commented, she felt cheesy acting things out in a sound booth. 
On the other hand, the 2D animation with the 3D computer graphics is absolutely breathtaking--a landmark for animated films.  The storyline was pretty weak and ruins the movie as a whole no matter how visually beautiful it is.  Crucial plotlines like why the Drej aliens want to exterminate humans--why not other races?--just weren't explained very well even with the beginning narration.  However, the movie was a refreshing break from the inundation of Disney movies with happy characters singing happy tunes.  Parents should be aware that the movie does have violence with blood (animated of course) and brief nudity.  
I think Fox simply needed to focus on a target audience, just bite the bullet--they may please less in numbers but more for the people they do please.  Then Fox would have an awesome, ground-breaking (possibly cult) film instead of a mediocre flop with potential.  However, if you like the animation enough you should definitely get this on DVD for the crisp detail.
The DVD is well organized with a very nice menu layout including these options: Sound - Digital Surround, English 5.1, English dolby surround, and French dolby surround. Subtitles - English or Spanish. Extras - Directors' commentary, Lit music video, deleted scenes/original cuts, a still gallery of over 30, a "making of" that was on Fox Kids (not very informative/in-depth), and DVD-ROM.