Let's just get this out there now: I'm a big fan of James Wan and Leigh Whannell. I jumped on the bandwagon (late) with Saw and I've followed them ever since. I've even enjoyed the sequels to Saw. I watched Dead Silence in theaters when it first came out, which I rarely do for films I don't really care about. So I'm a little biased to their movies in the fact that I always like the stylized violence, the frenzied recap, and the wicked twists that Wan throws upon the viewer before he ends the film.

But I must be factual here and say that for all of the interesting plot that Dead Silence has, its script is rather poor. A ghost story is one thing, but to literally have an old woman roaming around with seven tongues in her mouth is just a tad bit overkill, don't you think? This can easily be compared to the recent Insidious, which had a very strong premise and a good classic ghost story at its heart; then, it ceased its originality in a display of a monster which was much cornier than it was scary. The same is true of Dead Silence, with an old woman who lost her tongue and her life to a band of murderers. She now comes back to collect the lineage's tongues, as though that is somehow revenge for past sins.

In essence, Dead Silence is very similar to A Nightmare on Elm Street. A vengeful spirit seeks out uninvolved parties to murder, and she takes their life if they scream. Jamie (Ryan Kwanten) is sucked into the whole thing by receiving a ventriloquist dummy in the mail, who proceeds to kill his wife in a grisly stabbing before ripping out her tongue and opening her mouth up wide (insert a number of inappropriate jokes about large mouths and/or the benefits of no tongue). The woman was a ventriloquist obsessed with her dolls, which appeared to have life or at least the souls of victims. She worked on creating the perfect doll, which would be a human that can be controlled, and then she set about doing so with a child from town. Now her spirit haunts all of the family members.

The darkness of the movie is foreboding, and Dead Silence works better without sound than with the stings of violin chords when the sound fades from the room. The tension of walking up to a shrouded figure is more effective when there's nothing to signal the scare, and Wan uses that to his advantage in a number of situations where dummies or the ventriloquist woman pop out of thin air. Unfortunately, however, there's nothing deeper than that in the scares - just a mounting amount of tension until a quick jolt makes the viewer jump and then settle back into the groove.

Donnie Wahlberg's character Detective Lipton is seriously underused here, which is a shame because Whannell and Wan put a lot of effort into fleshing him out with subtle character traits like his constant shaving. It's a bit disappointing, because Wahlberg's aloof persona is much more entertaining than Kwanten's dour seriousness; despite the loss of his wife, I just didn't really believe it, especially considering the fact that he makes a lot of strange choices when trying to uncover the truth of Mary Shaw.

There's also the problem of the twist ending, which, I'll admit, caught me off-guard when I first saw the film. It's an ingenious device at first, and the film does make good on it throughout the entire film, albeit a bit sneakily. But when one stops to really think about why the twist is important, it all falls apart. Why did Mary Shaw need a human doll to do her dirty work? She's killed many men before Jamie, and it appears that she's quite unstoppable even without her dolls to help her. What makes Jamie scream at the end - the fact that he no longer has a stepmilf, but a doll? The conclusion is surprising and also unnecessary, although I'm not sure I can think of a better ending for the film.

Slash to the Point: Just like a ventriloquist show, Dead Silence is fun but also a bit old hat. Its supernatural storyline has been done to death, and its scares are little more than "boo" scares that become predictable as the film progresses. But there are a few surprises in the film, and more than a couple creepy opening scenes to pull your strings. Unfortunately, though, the film often falls into ruts; to complete the pun, we can see the lips moving.