Modern adaptations/revisions of Shakespeare always remind me of circus bears. They'll wear a flowered dress, ride a unicycle, jump through flaming hoops, but the muzzle never comes off. While Almereyda's Hamlet put on a better show than most, it never felt dangerous, and that's a shame.
The basic problem is that the willingness to experiment and venture into risky territory seems confined by a deep-seated reverence for the Bard (I recall a scene in Pacino's Looking for Richard, an oustanding film by the way, which discussed the American fear of acting Shakespeare). Scenes that display fresh ideas seem rehearsed and thought out ahead of time. "OK, I'll tell you to look for Polonius in the other place and then you'll punch me." The acting itself becomes a set piece or an accessory. Rather than possessing the character and doing something completely unexpected, the innovation feels tired even as you're watching it for the first time. It's acting by committee. All the spontaneity has been storyboarded ahead of time and all that's left to do is jump rope without tripping.
That said, I very much wanted to love this film. Some of the ideas work extremely well and I found myself smiling as Hawke did such things as pick up a payphone to say one last thing to his mother while he dragged Polonius away. But the acting detracted greatly from all that was going on around the characters. Hawke was almost unvaryingly dull. And Stiles as Ophelia - it was like she was in another film. When she actually crossed her eyes during her great moment I thought I was watching the freebasing scene from Traffic.
If a modernization is to be done, it needs to be a complete reappraisal. I would love to see the set and design of this film combined with the acting and panache of My Own Private Idaho topped off by some daring editing and cinematography, something like Woo, or Wong Kar-Wai, or even Terry Gilliam. Use the camera, make some unexpected cuts. Make it truly modern. The camera work in this version was pedestrian and uninspiring and the musical score was so bad and inappropriate that it became a nuisance.
One last thought: the actors involved did do this film for scale and I have a lot of respect for that. But I wish they didn't have to make the sponsors so blatant. It made two great scenes impossible to take seriously: I'm surprised his father's ghost didn't stop to indulge in the cool, low calorie freshness of a Pepsi One. It will bring them back from the dead for just one more taste.
All in all, a valiant failure.