This OAV was an anime I really looked forward to viewing.  Unfortunately, the promising premise was undercut by flaws too sizable and numerous to overlook.
The story focuses mostly on two characters, Yomiko and Nancy.  They`re the only `good guys` who have extraordinary powers, and the nature of these powers is very similar to those displayed by Marvel`s X-men.  First off, we have the main character, Yomiko Readman, aka The Paper.  She can manipulate paper to effects ranging from mundane to deadly (think Magneto`s ability with magnetism).  The combination of the element involved, paper (which is hardly your usual super-hero material), and Yomiko's nebbish, librarian, yet compelling demeanor make for a winning character rather than the feel of a rip-off that might have easily occurred.  Then there`s Nancy Makuhari, aka Miss Deep, who can phase through any and all matter with moves that rival Nadia Comaneci (think Shadowcat, aka Kitty Pride, with Nightcrawler`s gymnastic ability).
The first incongruity we come across regarding agent Yomiko is her level of experience with, and working for, British intelligence.  When she first meets Miss Deep, she introduces herself using her real name.  Deep admonishes her for this rookie mistake.  But Yomiko isn`t supposed to be a rookie.  Her familiarity with the upper brass is evident.  She`s a known quantity in British Intelligence and is being tapped for a very important assignment that has implications for international diplomacy as well as military and security objectives.
Secondly, the extent of her ability to manipulate paper appears inconsistent.  The show can`t make up its mind if she can control paper that`s simply nearby, or if she has to be in contact with the paper, along with any sheets touching the first.  In one life-and-death situation, she is bound, and cannot manipulate the paper ribbon in her braided hair until she can grasp it with her teeth.  Yet in another scene, she can control pieces of paper floating around her without making contact with them, either directly or via other paper.  The first case itself seems rather odd; since the paper ribbon is in her hair, she is technically already touching it (even though it was tied by Miss Deep).  Perhaps once she has touched a piece of paper, she can manipulate it ever after by proximity (at one point we do see her flipping through a stack of currency). But that still wouldn`t explain the former case above. Even if this is true, why reach for, grab, and then throw paper that she's obviously already touched from a briefcase, instead of just commanding it to fly on it`s own? I`m sure there`s some rational explanation for these apparent variances, but one can't escape the feeling that her ability is dictated by whatever the director needs at the moment to create the desired dramatic effect.
Third, is Yomiko a bumbling bookworm, or a ninja warrior?  For the most part, Yomiko behaves as someone more likely than most to trip over or bang into something out of clumsiness, or inattentiveness.  Yet she holds her own in battles with master samurai.  If she doesn`t understand the basics (never give your real name in an operation), how did she manage to hone her martial arts skills to such a degree?
There are some problems in directing as well.  In one shot involving the Statue of Liberty, everything happens in normal speed?except for Yomiko, who is suspended in mid-air, coat flapping, seemingly going slow motion, left-to-right in a straight line.  There`s nothing to keep her from falling, which she eventually does in the next shot.  I`m surprised this got passed the editing process.
The show also has the rather annoying habit of shuttling you from place to place without any indication of travel, or identification of the new location.  With a little thought, one can suss out soon enough what has happened, but time has to be spent wondering exactly where you are now? Japan, Britain, or Washington?
One other thing that bothers me. The story seems reluctant to define the era in which it takes place. There are steam powered contraptions from the 1800s, clothes from the 1920s, conveyance systems from the 40s, manual typewriters from the 50s, James Bond style music from the 70s, computer monitors and satellite imagery from the 90s, genetic replication technology that hasn?t been invented yet, just to name a few.  Half way through the first episode, I found myself wishing that they would choose a time period and stick with it.
Yet even given all this, it`s definitely not a complete waste of time.  As others have pointed out, the story is engaging enough, the characters interact in an interesting manner, and the artwork is very pleasant. Yomiko`s character has a child-like sincerity that`s devoid of cynicism, coupled with a hard-core tenacity to accomplish her mission.  It`s a difficult combination that comes off in spades and saves the show.  We quickly come to really like and care about Yomiko.
Even though Read or Die has been somewhat overhyped, it is still worth a look.  I would recommend seeing it before buying.  This anime had the potential to be an immediate buy-off-the-shelf keeper, but the gaps and incontinuites lessened what should have been an excellent show.