Reviewing Sinbad is a treat because I got to rewatch the movie,  oohing and ahing over Michelle Pfeiffer's delicious voice-performance as Eris, as well as the equally villainous animation acting.  In every scene that Eris appears in you get goosebumps--you find yourself on the edge of your seat--you realize you're hanging on her every word and action.  Quite honestly, this is one of the best uses of hand-drawn animation I've seen in a long time--and don't get me wrong: I love nothing better than hand-drawn animation.

  I'm just sorry to say that the rest of the movie wasn't as good.  And I'm even more sorry to say that the main problem lay with basic story/character elements.

  As I see it,this movie's flaw is this:  DreamWorks (or, as I like to call them, DreamOrcs) made it.  Every low and unfunny joke, every miscast star voice, every male-bashing comment and jibe, and every less-than-heroic hero would have been fixed were Ol' Jeffy (Jeffery Katzenberg) and Co. NOT in charge of this production.  Every other joke was either something crude, something sexist, or something just plain low (I'm blaming YOU, DreamOrcs!).  The main flaws were Sinbad himself and his love interest, Marina (again, a DreamOrcs decision).  If they had been COOL instead of being loserly, this movie would have been great.  All their dialogue together is boring and/or stupid, their interaction is mediocre at best, and they don't come off believably as their characters.

  For example, Sinbad, though supposedly the captain of the ship and the leader of the crew, apparently doesn't do anything but shout orders--and that only at the very end of the movie.  How he became leader is beyond me--he's not the most skilled, the fastest, the strongest, CERTAINLY not the cleverest--and he's not even a good leader.  And Marina, though a princess/ambassador, knows how to swing across a ship with the greatest of ease (that daring young lady on the flying trapeze), as well as knowing all of the functions and features of the Chimera--such as blades--without even having inspected the ship.  She's so superhuman, how is there tension in her having to steer through the Dragon's Teeth?

  Music=awesome.  How often do you hear a bassoon solo in the villain's theme?  And how often do you really get that thrill of swashbuckling in the trumpet section?  I mean, they didn't even throw in a blatant, annoying, unfitting pop song as they usually do!  It's so refreshing!

  As for visuals, the 3D is there in force, and is obvious throughout the film.  If you're okay with that, fine, but it gets on MY nerves when Sinbad's hands don't match up with the helm he's turning.

  This movie should be your typical DreamOrcs fare: low humor, low main characters, and talking down to the audience.  However, Eris's performance, combined with the strength of the story elements and concepts (I mean, how can you make fighting sea monsters politically correct?), and the great music keep this movie from being as bad as their features normally are.

  As a whole, I think it's worth renting frequently--but not buying.