I have been slowly working through the Horrorfest DVDs, and I have been pretty negative about them so far, but this one was really keeping my interest through most of it.  Perhaps it was the getting away from the usual youngsters-who-must-die formula, with a crew of foolish ones who are still young, but a bit more professional this time around.  Three old chums meet up at a funeral for another friend and end up on a drunken binge in a graveyard.  When one of them finds a mysterious card which details how one may dance on the graves of the dead to celebrate life, the three get dancing, and the problems ensue from there.  Of course, there is already some intrigue, in that Harrison and Kira have a little thing going between them, even though Harrison is married, and Harrison's wife is the first to notice odd things going on around the home a week or so after the dancing episode.

The danced-upon graves, of course, turn out to be the graves of psychos and other dangerous types--a murdering mistress, a rapist/serial killer, and a pyromaniac child--and they are not happy with having their resting places disturbed.  And, of course, parapsychologists eventually get involved to help quiet these angered spirits...if they really know what they're doing.  This film is light on gore, but it's good on the creep factor.  There are some well done ghostly appearances reminiscent of Asian horror, and the ghosts themselves are nicely spooky at first.  Tensions mount in the friends' relationships, which make them only more susceptible to the ghosts' attacks.  I was enjoying the film, for the most part, until about the 90-minute mark....

...and then it all fell apart.  There are really some lousy moments to try to seal the movie up.  The effects, which had previously been pretty simple, get overdone and laughable, almost as though the director saved 90% of the budget for the final sequence.  But this sudden barrage of cgi and special effects ruins the movie's otherwise quiet, creepy feel.  Even worse, the script makes some predictable and unimaginative moves.  Characters are suddenly alive when previously thought dead, and characters who had previously been a little weak suddenly become Rambo-esque.  Even the "The End...or Is It?" move to maintain the possibility for Gravedancers II makes this one a Cloned Movie to Die For: a movie that wasn't too intense for theaters--just too hackneyed.