Peter Hyams explains his version of the oft-told Dumas tale as a "re-vision" of The Three Musketeers. (The hyphen in the word "re-vision" is not mine, it is included in all the accompanying literature associated with the Miramax release. Mr. Hyams does not explain why the story needs to be re-vised. Yet, after dozens of works of fiction, including stage, movie, television, radio drama, pantomime, ballet, orchestral works and point-of-purchase candy bar display racks, somehow Hollywood has determined that what keeps this classic swashbuckling product from selling is its story. So it gets re-vised. God save us all from the re-vision thing.
Just to bring you up on the Hyams version of the story: D'Artagnan, the only son of a retired Gascon musketeer, is orphaned as a boy, as his celebrated father is just beginning to teach him the ultra-deadly Hong Kong style of ep&eacute;e swordsmanship that once made the old musketeer famous fighting for Charles IV against the Yakuza. Both D'Artagnan's parents are killed before his very eyes by the evil Tim Roth and his faction of cardinalist guards. Tim Roth, who ranks with Phyllis Diller's characterization in The Bugaloos as a Saturday morning cartoon villain, might better be remembered for his identical role in Robin Hood, Prince of Thieves, in which he masticated entire soundstages and set pieces before this reviewer's horrified eyes, and performed the most offensive rape scene ever perpetrated by a major Hollywood release.
This D'Artagnan is an orphan, who is raised by his father's servant Planchet. This Planchet is a master demolitions expert and Chinese-style swordsman, who, while disguised as Noel Redding from the Jimi Hendrix Experience, teaches D'Artagnan everything he needs to know about being a musketeer. This apparently would include how to fight when suspended from a guy wire, how to attach an German ep&eacute;e guard and hilt to a Chinese sword, and how to passably mimic either a French or British accent. It is only this last skill that eludes D'Artagnan before it his time for him to seek his fortune in Paris and meet M. de Treville, captain of the king's musketeers.
This M. Treville is a doddering old fool, whose musketeers are in disgrace after they are framed for doing the exact kind of thing the American CIA was doing in Central and South America during the 1960s and 1970s. After meeting the sodden Porthos and Aramis, whose characters in this "re-vision" have been reduced to one-dimensional mercenaries straight out of the movie ConAir, this D'Artagnan find lodgings with this M. Bonacieux - who is the uncle of the pretty young Bonacieux this time around. I can't find a more likely reason for this plot change than to make M. Bonacieux more repulsive, but Bill Treacher does a fair job of that on his own. The pretty young Bonacieux (played by young ingenue Mena Suvari with all the emotional depth of a Clinique ad) now has the given name of Francesca and is of Spanish descent this time around, also is now unmarried and is on the cover of Cosmo for reasons that escape me.
Several key characterizations are absent in the three famous musketeers themselves. They are drunken, ill-disciplined, scheming and without respect to women, true enough, but here their similarities to the Dumas characters end. That is where the characters themselves end, since they are given no courage, no thirst for justice, and no unwavering loyalty to king and to France that made them so compelling in the first place. Instead, we have in all of the musketeers generally, a sort of defeated rabble to be roused by D'Artagnan's youthful idealism.
Cardinal Richelieu (Stephen Rea, "you mean they really couldn't get Tim Curry again?"), the classic arch villain and traditionally the venomous creature at the center of  this classic web of action and intrigue, has been reduced to an impotent second banana when faced with Tim Roth's over-the-top LeFebre.
(LeFebre? LeFebre? the critic and student of French popular literature cries as he thumbs through his dog-eared translation of The Three Musketeers, finally realizing that this character, the central villain, doesn't even exist in the book! And why should he, really, when there are already a number of villains and ne'er-do-wells who would serve just as well? )
Gone is Jussac. Gone is Lady Clarik De Winter, and the main motivation for Athos and D'Artagnan. Rochefort is a walk-on, dust beneath the feet of this impostor LeFebre. Gone is the romantic intrigue between Lord Buckingham and Queen Anne. D'Artagnan has no internal turmoil over being infatuated with the wife of his landlord, since she's now his niece, quite available, and willing. Gone is the story.
Gone is the action, too; largely due to Hyams shooting all fight scenes from the torso up, which makes it impossible to figure out and who is actually fighting whom. A potentially brilliant piece of combat business involving sword combat while perched atop, and occasionally leaping from, 25-foot tall ladders becomes tedious and poorly realized, like a scene out of MacGyver. Justin Chambers is given lines that would embarrass the writers of Who's the Boss? and everything involving battle from a carriage was lifted nearly shot by shot from Stagecoach.
The Musketeer is not entirely without merit, although specific examples of where that might be true elude me. Costumes and weapons are noticeable in their tawdriness, and what should be an important state dinner honoring the presence of Lord Buckingham in the court of Louis XIII looks more like the $50-a-plate Royale Banquet deal at your local renaissance festival. (And when is Hollywood going to realize that a four-pound cannon does not shoot an incendiary firework that makes its victims do cartwheels on impact? It shoots molten-hot grapeshot, a particularly deadly cluster of projectiles that goes through the victim's flesh, carving its victims into small, difficult-to-identify pieces.)  However, since the screenplay did away with the entire plot and characters of its original material, it's a pretty easy story for the average 8 year old to follow, so it does have that going for it.