Well, let me get this out of the way real quick.  I'm a PC gamer, so my exposure to the Halo universe has been dreadfully slow, but I still regard Halo: Combat Evolved as one of my favorite FPS games.  The mysterious environments, the badass weaponry, and some of the coolest characters in video game history all come to mind when I remember those first days playing the game.  I was quite excited when I heard that a Halo anime was going to be released.  After all, animation opens up so many possibilities for the direction of the Halo story to progress, but now that I've watched the whole DVD, I can't help feel somewhat disappointed.  Many of the stories just don't have the emotional pull I was hoping for.  The pieces are fairly short and you have to get used to a new animation style after every part, which isn't too bad, but some of them are animated in strange ways (a watercolor animation for example).  Let me leave off with a few more comments.

1.  The voice overs are not bad, but you do have the option of listening to the voice in Japanese or English.  Both are worth a listen.

2.  "Odd One Out" is intended to be a parody of the Halo universe.  I don't think some of you understood that and unfairly criticized it as something it wasn't.

3.  ORIGINS is by far, my favorite part of this collection(actually two parts).  Origins is the reason why this DVD will stay in my collection.  Cortana's sweeping narration and the effective animation of Studio 4C was amazing.  Part II was as much a story about humanity as it was Halo.  Although I appreciate the hard work that was put into the other parts, I wish that they where more like these segments.  Very impressive.

I'd recommend this DVD if you are looking for a light evening experience.  Don't expect to be moved to tears or experience some sort of epiphany, but try and enjoy these episodes for what they are.  Ya have some light comedy in there with "Odd One Out", unique animation with "The Duel", all around excellence with "origins", and a decent mix of action/lessons in morality in the rest of the episodes.  Not bad, but not great.  Make sure you get a good price.