I give this film two stars because it is gorgeous to look at. The colors and lush and beautiful, the sequences visually stimulating and fascinating.

That's where it ends. A bunch of Beatles songs randomly strung together with little thought to why or how. Characters show up inexplicably; the actors utter lines like:

Sadie: How did you get here?
Jude: She came in through the bathroom window.

How unbelievably clever.

As another reviewer put it, the names were overkill--you had Sadie, Jojo, Lucy, and Jude. There was a character named Prudence who had no point whatsoever. She shows up at the beginning to sing "I Want to Hold Your Hand" to a female cheerleader from afar, apropos of nothing. I kinda thought that had potential to be an interesting story about her coming out. Wrong. I am fully convinced she only existed so that they could sing "Dear Prudence" to her. She disappears again, shows back up, and then is gone again.

Some of the songs didn't even seem to match the sequences, as if the writer of the script just said, "Hey! I love this song. Let's put that here."

The sequence with Bono ("Dr. Robert," naturally) singing "I Am the Walrus" seemed pretty pointless as well--not quite as pointless, though, as the sequence it led up to, consisting of a carnival featuring "For the Benefit of Mr. Kite." This is where Prudence inexplicably shows up--she's run off and joined the circus. And as far as she's concerned, the end.

The storylines started and then appeared to go nowhere. Jude comes to America to find his absentee American G.I. father and then--nothing happens. The father shows up randomly toward the end, and then disappears again. Wha?

Such potential to be an interesting showcase of Beatles music and all squandered. All that's left is an overlong showcase of Beatles music, and as my husband, a huge Beatles fan, put it: "I can get the same effect by listening to my Beatles CDs, except that it's better because the masters are actually doing it themselves."

Don't believe the hype. You'll be disappointed.