This version of Alcott's classic story is luminescent, brilliantly acted, perfectly staged, and far more emotional than the book.
Katharine Hepburn's Jo, six decades earlier, was hard to top, but Winona Ryder does it -- with sensitivity, more believable passion, and a far more expressive face. Ryder's Jo is entirely believable in her plunging into writing with reckless abandon, more so than Hepburn, for whom it took second place to love. Yet, paradoxically, the romance is far more believable for the newer Jo when it does come along.
Everyone else in the story reflects her struggles and triumphs, and it's a stellar ensemble cast. Especially adept are Trini Alvarado, a conflicted and beautiful Meg; Claire Danes, trembling and heartbreaking as Beth; Christian Bale, giving a raucous edge to next-door Laurie; and most of all, Gabriel Byrne, a younger-by-15-years Prof. Bhaer, finally made both believable and romantic.
All actors portray the same character throughout except for Kirsten Dunst and Samantha Mathis, who assay Amy at ages 12 and 17. Others have criticized this casting, but it worked well for me, especially in the older Amy taking her propriety and "finishing" far more seriously than it deserved.
The story does depart slightly from the book, but not from Alcott, and the film is better for it -- certainly less precious and affected. A few plot elements from "Little Men" and later books flesh out this story, and Alcott's own attitudes about empowering women are brought into Susan Sarandon's quietly powerful Marmee. The Alcott family's intellectual interests inform Jo's stay in New York, adding some depth and grounding to her character and romantic feelings.
This new DVD's features are a delight, especially in Gillian Armstrong's intense narration on the commentary track. She had a vision and depth of attention to this film's details that ought to be celebrated, yet rarely is for women directors. Outtakes are also narrated, a rarity. The making-of featurette and other elements are well-shaped, though Danes's behind-the-scenes program from HBO is not present, which is a bit disappointing.
The transfers are crisp and clear, both video and audio. Thomas Newman's brilliant music can be heard on a separate audio track, and anyone who likes this film should watch it once with just his evocative (and often-imitated) score filling the ears.