Before I saw this film, all signs said I would enjoy it.  Its cast includes two of my favorite actors, William H. Macy and Donald Sutherland.  I read boatloads of positive reviews about it, some even calling it one of the year's best films.  I typically avoid mass-produced Hollywood films in favor of little-known sleepers like this one.  And the premise had great potential.  
Consequently, it was pretty disappointing when halfway through the film I found myself uttering aloud to nobody in particular, "Wow, this is bad."  
After having time to absorb the film, I realize that's not entirely true.  The film isn't that bad.  But I'm still baffled by the praise it's received.
The opening scene is promising: Alex (Macy) visits a psychologist for the first time, and when asked what he does for a living, he frankly replies, "I have two jobs.  I run a mail order business out of my home...and I kill people for a living."  Alex begins to have doubts about his career, however, when his father Michael (Donald Sutherland), the founder of the "family business," assigns Alex to his next target--his recently acquainted psychologist.
You can pretty much guess the path the film takes from there.  Alex is at the perfect age for a midlife crisis.  He wants to quit his job as a hit man but fears his father's reaction.  And he takes a mistress, Sarah (Neve Campbell).  For much of the film, Macy resorts to hanging his head and looking sad, which he does well, but like Hugh Grant's sputtering speech and fluttering eyelids, this fallback device wears thin quickly.  My biggest qualm with his performance is I never believed for a moment that Macy's character was capable of killing anyone.  
This is surprising, because Sutherland goes to great, indeed excessive, lengths to portray a man who could father a killer.  In flashbacks we see Michael teaching an eight-year-old Alex to kill squirrels with a pistol, and later coaching him through his first "hit," chuckling fondly all along.  In the present, Michael viciously berates Alex's 6-year-old son Sammy for spilling glue, shouting, "What are you, stupid? A moron? Is there a brain in there?"
We're never given any other foundation for this character, and as a result Sutherland's performance is one-dimensional and devoid of any human qualities.  Although it's fun on some level to see him portray an over-the-top maniac, it doesn't lend any credibility to the film.  Alex's mother Diedre, as well, is implausibly unsympathetic.
As Sarah, Neve Campbell plays a patient of the same psychology clinic as Alex.  In one of her first scenes she unapologetically explains to her therapist in graphic terms that she's bisexual, and thus we learn from the getgo what a spunky and unconventional character she is.  She spends most of her screen time spouting purposefully quirky lines of dialogue like "50 minutes is way too little time to fit in a week of tragedies" (referring to her therapy sessions).  Of course, her unconventional demeanor is attractive to the alienated Alex, who visits her apartment with unclear intentions, wandering around answering "I dunno" to her questions and looking oh-so-confused and beleaguered.
Sammy is an obnoxiously precocious kindergartner who poses timely questions to his father such as, "What's infinity, Daddy?"  Ultimately the son's function in the film is to act as the "last straw": when Michael takes his grandson out to shoot a squirrel, apparently with the intention of rearing another soldier for the family hit business, Alex has had it, and wants it all to end. 
With Michael sporadically contributing vignettes of wisdom about "destiny" along the way, the result is a lumpy, confused film.  
The screenplay can't escape it's plot-driven structure by clumsily fleshing out its characters along the way, and for the first time ever, I could *see* Macy and Sutherland *acting.*  The cinematography is elegant and the music is effective (if a bit familiar at times), but ultimately the film can't escape its clunky dialogue, desperate performances and obvious conclusion.  This film should have been better, but unfortunately I can't understand the praise it's received.