It's refreshing to find a film that you hate -it cleanses the palate - and I hate this film. Normally I would never write a negative review, but considering the amount of verbiage this 'classic' has inspired, I fel an almost civic duty to try and re-dress the balance. If it was still showing at a local theatre I would be compelled to go along and form a human barricade to stop unwitting would-be viewers. That's how strongly I feel about this tawdry, empty piece of pseudo-art. The plot is thin, the acting (with the exception of the luminous Vanessa Redgrave) barely rises above the level of a 60's UK soap opera, and possibly worst of all the script is so vacuous that the overwhelming feeling is one of crunching boredom. Ironic considering the setting, one of the more 'happening' of recent history. The main character, played by David Hemmings, is the only fully-realised part in the film, a shame considering his is one of the most repellent roles since cinema began -vain, self-regarding, misogynistic, shallow, greedy and omnipotently self-unaware. He's not the kind of character you love to hate, a la Ian McShane in Deadwood or Ben Kingsley in Sexy Beast, he's just a black hole of a person, and it's Antonioni's decision to make him the focal point of the film that grates the most when enduring this nonsense-kind of like staring intently at one of those Magic Eye posters for 2 hours, only for the artist to tell you that it's just a bunch of dots after all. It's just that enervating. Hemmings was much better in a similarly-themed film by another Italian director, Argento's Profundo Rosso. It's not the length of this film that bothers me, nor even the silences -so lengthy they conjure Tarkovsky directing Brando doing Pinter (in a sound-proofed room!), it's the insulting heartlessness at its centre, personified by Hemmings's wide-boy photographer. In fact I would happily sit through the world's longest silent movie -weeks long and with no audio track -as long as it consisted solely of this character being lovingly and inventively tortured. Just as Roger Ebert said that his colonoscopy footage was more enjoyable than The Brown Bunny, that epic piece of snuff would beat the hell out of Blow-up. About the audio: it's not enough that Antonioni should dispense with any kind of sound for long tracts of this guff, he has also chosen to ignore one of the best soundtracks of the '60s, by 'Herbert' Hancock. Some brief footage of the Yardbirds is not enough to make up for this. Also worth pointing out is that this film contains the least sexy threesome ever commited to the screen. Quite a feat! Unless this is all some sort of early post-modern prank on the hapless viewer, I think it's safe to say that Blow-up is entirely without any kind of merit. In short, I cannot dis this film enough.