***THERE ARE SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW.***

THE WEDDING DATE is a good romantic movie.  It is not a frivolous "chick movie," because there are definitely some dark, bittersweet moments.  (There is nothing wrong with a frivolous chick movie, either, if that is what you want.  This just isn't one.)  The concept of a possible relationship between a woman and the man she pays to escort her to a wedding usually brings to mind PRETTY WOMAN.  While I watched the movie, I actually thought more about FOUR WEDDINGS AND A FUNERAL, because of the wry British humor and some of the self-effacing and bawdy characters that I remember from other British movies.

A previous reviewer described Dermot Mulroney's character as "not ... particularly charming, intelligent, nice or interesting ... [just] handsome. Yawn."  I completely disagree.  Nick's work is based on reading people and seeing what they need in each social situation (not just romantic ones).  He adapts to their need at the moment and plays the role he is needed to play.  He can be a "man's man" when alone with Kat's male friends and family without having to resort to sophomoric behavior (e.g., when supporting Ed about turning down the prostitute).  Yet, he also can handle himself with the women (e.g., the scene where he brings Kat's forgotten purse to the pub, and the women are flirting all around him).  In addition, you see that in the scene where he is meeting Kat's ex-fiance, where he just lets the guy start spilling his guts, even though he probably didn't know he was talking to the ex when they began talking.  You also see him mentally changing gears when he's talking alone with Kat's stepfather, where there is a lot alluded to while they size each other up.  In fact, the movie pretty much spells it out for us when Nick tells Kat that he is there for HER (while she was nervous about the whole escort arrangement), letting her know that he feels it's his job to help her however he can in her quest to make everyone not focus on feeling bad for her past broken engagement and make this wedding weekend as painless as possible.  So, he definitely was NOT "doing nothing and just standing there, looking pretty," as the forementioned reviewer characterized it.  It's usually the wisest person in the room who sits back & lets others talk, revealing themselves in what they say and how they say it.

This previous review also belittled Kat because she paid "$6000 + airfare to London for a wedding date to make an ex-boyfriend jealous," according to the reviewer.  There were a whole lot more people at that wedding than just the ex, and as shown in the first party Kat & Nick attend in England, her being jilted on the day of her wedding was going to be focused on a lot during her sister's wedding weekend, no matter what.  So, it was understandable that she would want to make the experience as positive as possible, with a handsome, experienced escort on her arm to smooth over the rough patches of the weekend.  Remember, the movie clearly showed that she was a people-pleaser:  she was a highly-valued customer service rep for her airline (so much so that she was pulled away from checking in for her flight to manage an "angry customer" emergency), so she pleased people for a living.  She also seemed to be used to letting her sister, Amy, have the spotlight, as well as whatever she wanted (e.g. when her sister asked for Kat's drink at the first party of the weekend and Kat gave it to her).  So, by bringing a date that everyone would like and believe was really her boyfriend, she was helping to ensure that Amy would be the focus of her own wedding, not her "poor, sad sister, Kat."

It helped to watch the Deleted Scenes to understand a little more of the story's plot points, but I would still have enjoyed the movie thoroughly, even if I hadn't seen them.  As someone else has said here in the reviews section, Debra Messing does not talk straight through her audio commentary.  There are many times where I forgot I was listening to a commentary, because I was engrossed in watching the movie again & she hadn't spoken in a while.  That could have been corrected by having someone else do the commentary with her, such as the director, writer, producer, or even Dermot Mulroney would have been an excellent choice (but I don't know if he normally does commentaries).  However, I did still get interesting info & insights out of Debra's commentary and am glad I took the time to watch it.  I just suggest you watch the Deleted Scenes before you watch the commentary, so you are familiar with them before she refers to them.

I think that there are some movies that don't strike a chord enough for me to buy them for my DVD collection; I'm just content to have watched them once, and that's it.  HOWEVER, I think that this movie is worth owning, and I recommend that you buy it, as I will be.