I First saw "Live After Death" probably around 1986.  I rented it from a video store.  I loved it.  At that time it was still easy to find at stores and was a cinch to order.  I bought one from a record store and watched it all the time.  I made the mistake of letting someone borrow it and he moved away and I never got it back.  Now this is a few years later probably around 1993 or 94.  I couldn't find a copy of it anywhere to save my life.  I ran into someone that had "Live After Death" and Dio's "Live at the Spectrum."  Both videos were in nice shape.  I offered him 60 bucks but he wouldn't part with either one.  So, needless to say I have been forced to watch live clips on YouTube of Iron Maiden's legendary World Slavery Tour.  Oh sure, there is a few clips on the CD but it's not the whole show.  I know I also could have gotten a Brazilian DVD of the show but I knew Maiden was going to put out part 2 of the history of the band.  So I waited and at long last we finally have "Live After Death."  It was well worth waiting for this official release.
  The concert is spectacular on DVD.  It looks so crisp and clean.  The colors are beautiful and the sound is awesome!  It looks and sounds so good!  We also have some assorted goodies from a little before the tour like: "Ello Texas", a documentary filmed during the World Piece tour.  "Rock in Rio" from Brazil.  A riveting, raw performance.  I love rare stuff like this.  Then, you get "Behind the Iron Curtain."  This was a short glimpse into the rehearsal tour of Iron Maiden's first visit to some of the eastern european countries like Hungary and Poland during the cold war of the 1980's.  They were one of the first bands to tour in that part of the world.  If you grew up in the 80's, you should know what I'm talking about.  Great live performances all around from this documentary.  I have the video of this and what is on the DVD is different.  The DVD version is longer and instead of live versions of songs I have the promo clips.  The video is 38 minutes and the version on the DVD is and hour.  Which, in fact, is very cool.  The videos from the "Powerslave" album are of course included in this phenominal 2 DVD set.
  When I look back in time to the year 1985 "Live After Death" is one of the things I remember the most.  I would say that Iron Maiden were at the height of thier career.  I remember being in grade school and hearing people talk about Maiden.  Then, when I got to high school everyone liked them.  The World Slavery Tour is a high point in the history of heavy metal. You don't ever see shows like that anymore.  Could you imagine the work and manpower involved in putting on a show like that?  Oh, I almost forgot!  You also get to look at the tour book from the tour.  Every page is hear and you are able to read all the text.  What a great idea that was to include the tour book!
  If you are a hardcore Maiden fan I'm sure you already have this DVD.  I highly recommend this to anyone who wants to see what a real heavy metal band is like.  Up the irons!