I would give this ZERO STARS if I could, but Amazon won't let me. The animation is HORRIBLE, which I could get over if the story wasn't HORRIBLE. Maybe I'm too picky, or spoiled, or both. But in the way of stories, I have been exposed to too many good fantasy stories by authors such as Tolkien (LOTR) and Tad Williams' ("Memory, Sorrow, and Thorne" series/trilogy). These are books, not anime, but they have spoiled me for the generic and just plain bad tripe that this Lodoss War story consists of. The characters aren't developed. The background story isn't developed. It is very simple, which is not a bad quality in itself, but this story plays out like a very bad role-playing video game. There is just enough story to tell who is bad and who is good. There is some cheesy mythololgy-type story briefly given at the beginning of this series -- much like an RPG. For me, this would not bother me if the story was more in depth.

 Bad story aside, this DVD series might be worth watching for its action and eye-candy visual effects, but wait, it doesn't have those either!!! The animation and bad production values make it look like this was made in the 1970s on a shoestring budget. Plus, there is very little action.

 I want the dollar, and the coupon I used to reduce the price to a dollar, back from the big-name video rental company I rented this from. I wouldn't watch this even if it were free. It is so bad, it gives me that kind of car-sick feeling I get when I watch bad animation and listen to bad 1970s music and television shows. Bleecchhhh!!!! I only could handle the first four episodes. Sadly, I was hoping it would get better. It didn't.

 Seriously, I don't know how some people say this is "The Best Series Ever!!" or things like that. It blows my mind, seriously. If you like good QUALITY movies, animation, storytelling, etc, STAY AWAY FROM THIS AT ALL COSTS!!!!

 If you want to see good anime, watch Akira, Ghost in the Shell, Ninja Scroll, Spirited Away, Princess Mononoke, Perfect Blue, Cowboy Bebop, or look for Amazon lists of Anime movies that contain some of these titles and you will be on the right track. There are more good anime movies than the ones I mentioned above. Look at Amazon's "Listmania"s or their "So you want to..." lists.

 Happy hunting.