There has to be some suspension of disbelief in movies like this. The IMF is of course a ridiculous notion, but in the series and even in the first movie, you can forget the over-done actions scenes. This movie tramples on that belief system pretty bad. Bad enough that I got pulled out of the movie several times. Here's some examples SPOILER ALERT:

Huey helicopter is chased by Cobra Helicopter - why does the Cobra gunship follow into the wind farm? It's idiotic when all they have to do is just fly over it. Pilot's, particularly helicopter pilots, are a smarter than that.

Ethan Hunt's boss has been looking for this arms dealer his entire career. Ethan catches him in a few days without much adue. This makes his boss look like an incompetent fool and I doubt the head of a major espionage organization, who has probably served as an agent for many years before being promoted, is that idiotic.

So, what is Ethan's reward for capturing the bad guy? Instant suspicion and arrest without so much as a pat on the back. Ethan is never given the opportunity to defend himself. I would think that the boss would remember that Ethan is probably the top guy in his field, who has proven himself a loyal and honorable agent who has survived every scandal.

Agents would never try to interrogate a person in the field and if they do they ALWAYS use blackout techniques (never reveal themselves personally to the prisoner). It's spy games 101.

When Ethan escapes, his boss is surprised. Ethan, you know, the only guy that has eluded the CIA, FBI, most of Europe's and Asia's police forces, and IMF. Ethan, the only guy that has ever successfully broken into the CIA's HQ's. Ethan, the guy that has many friends and connections around the world and has never ever been captured and HELD. Yea, you just leave him with cuffs and a mouth gag (so he can't explain there's a mole in the organization etc...).

Yea, I know the boss is being setup for suspicion of being the mole, but the audience already knows Ethan's handler and friend is a total weasel. The guy is grossly incompetent and he's a total ass. IMF must be hard pressed for good agents these days.

I could go on and on, but you guys get the idea. Really wish they made this a little 'smarter'. It could have been a really good movie.