I gave up reviewing movies on Amazon.com for the most part, but in seeing some of the reviews for "The Pledge" I feel compelled to put my two cents in. My opinion may not matter to anyone else but myself, but this movie had me riveted the entire time I watched it with a packed house at a matinee showing. I only mention that because after it was over I was stunned at how many people were walking out of the theater bashing it. I wondered if we were watching the same movie. I think the problem with "The Pledge" is that people came for one of two things. 1) A suspensful thriller about a serial killer that would keep them riveted to their seats in the same way "Seven" or "Silence of the Lambs" did. Or 2) A Jack Nicholson movie. What I mean by that is a film in which Jack smirks and cracks wise for two hours in the same way he's been doing the last few years. "The Pledge" is not in the same vein as recent serial killer movies because it isn't about the killer, the crimes or even the effects of the murders - it's a deep psychologocial character study of one man's using his own unrelenting hunt for absolution and justic as a means for getting up in the morning. And Jerry Black (Nicholson) is not clever Jack - he's acting Jack. Director Penn gives the film a deliberately slow pace that starts out with a bang and then BUILDS to a complex and stunning climax. The audience wants to solve the mystery, but the filmmakers are not interested in who the killer is, the filmmakers are intrigued by the perverse lengths Jerry Black will go to give himself a reason for being. Believe it or not, the main thrust of the movie (the serial killer) is more like a sub-plot, it's Black's personal descent that is the focus of the movie. I personally am a fan of both intense mystery/thrillers and deep character studies, so having a really profound look at the typical "cop" role was fresh. Nicholson shines in the role of Jerry Black, the only problem being that no matter how great an actor Nicholson is, he's still Jack Nicholson, and in the back of every viewer's mind they won't forget that he's still Jack. That makes some of Black's questionable behavior and motives even more uncomfortable, because even if an audience is used to seeing Jack smirk his way through questionable moral territory, they've never seen him REALLY bathe in it with a serious face. Yet, the film has to stand on it's own, despite any pre-conceived notions a viewer might have regarding it's content or genre. For me, it was a breath of fresh air, and the DVD release will supply more oxygen during the long summer of Michael Bay and his filmmaking brethren suffocating us with abundant special effects and hula-hoop plot holes. "The Pledge" is an emotional investment that, depending on how one likes their movies, may or may not pay off. It certainly did for me, and if nothing else just watch it for what is the defining moment of this phase of Jack Nicholson's career.