Flag of our fathers

Flag of Our Fathers is a movie made from a book with the same title, written by James Bradley and Ron Powers. This incredible movie, directed by Clint Eastwood, is about the famous photo of the Marine Soldiers raising the American Flag, taken during the Battle of Iwo Jima at the end of the II World War in 1945. The main characters; Rene Gagnon, Ira Hayes and John Bradly, were the survivors of the Battle and they were the ones on the famous photo.

This movie is told by one of the soldiers' grown-up son, who wants to find out what happened to his father. He interviews his father and the fellow soldiers in order to reveal the story of the famous photo.
The movie takes place in three different times: during the battle, during the celebration of victory and in the present in 1994.

Flag of Our Fathers is not just about war violence and blood, as much people would think. It is much more of a drama than a war movie. It shows a mixture between emotional and battle scenes that are extremely well done, making an impressive viewing.
All along the movie they showed random flashbacks of Suribashi being shelled by US Marines. Incredible special effects were used and, even if those scenes are brief, they manage to show the hardships of the war. However, the main focus remains on the feelings of the soldiers, when they go back to the US and were greeted as heroes. They were forced to lie about the reality of that historical moment. The photo used as a memorial event wasn't the original one; it was taken with a replacement flag. Those soldiers weren't the ones who fight against Japanese. The survivors were the soldiers that avoid being wounded and their mission was to save the wounded Fighters. Real heroes died days after raising the flag.
The tour they had to make in order to collect money was a farce, and the guilt and nightmares of war made a huge difference to their lives giving the movie an emotional dimension.

This is a great representation of what government is capable of doing for raise money for its own benefit and how terrible, sad and intense the war was for soldiers during and after being on the battle field.
I think that Flag of Our Fathers tries to give two important messages; the first, is that the experience soldiers have being treated as heroes isn't as great as civilians would imagine and, the second is that what happens in the battle field stays in the battle field.