In all sincerity, well done fellas - this is terrific.

In the last decade, my opinion of american film makers verged to purely ridiculous lows. I had agreed to bring my younger son to the movies that particular Saturday, and while this was the obvious choice for him (I-want-to-grow-up-and-fight-the-Daleks), and I don't imagine where he got that from, I truly didn't know what I was expecting. There have been so many wolves in sheep's clothing in the last few years, from unprocessed propaganda of the worst sort (Hurt Locker) to the weird and wonderful - far too many to mention - I kind of imagined this movie that we were about to see as being the equivalent of an hour or more of Newt Gingrich bawling and howling at the viewer through a megaphone to the tune of "home of the free".

Or something.

No, I was quite incorrect. This movie is EXCELLENT, in literally every way - a very clever and well crafted tale. Pure popcorn wonderment, the sort of thing that will provoke dads everywhere to whisper to their kids "I remember DOING THIS stuff when you were, you know, too young to bring along". The screen play works well, meaning by that the ideas weld well together visually, and you can really feel your way through it.

Not to mean that it is exactly easy on the eye. I mean, some of the action is fairly extreme and it hurts to imagine it happening; but this is also a tribute to the excellent camerawork, more than that I can't say because I have never done outdoor stuff on what is obviously a huge scale, and they do it so well here.

Special effects? I should say so. I really hold to the idea that the real special effects occur when you sense the gross injustice and the sheer boiling rage that lies just below the skin of these characters, but again, it works well, and the accompanying huge-things-flying-about bits are about on par; but you would have a good film without any of it.

It's sad to now think that I never saw the original A-team TV series at all, but I reckon after this I will do so.

By the way, what is this about the A-team appearing WITHIN the A-team? Watch and you will know what I mean. By the way, that particular little scene got a massive cheer from the rather excitable audience I went to see this with; that audience gradually morphed from a conventional mixture of Dads and kids to something like a crowd of drunken football fan rabble as the movie progressed, so you can imagine what the whole thing was like and how great it was to be there.

What was it then? Manic, unpredictable, and very, very enjoyable at the very least.

Very highly recommended.

More please!