In The Astronaut's Wife, photography elements are used to increase the intensity of the film because unsettling camera angles are used and because aggressive and vibrant colors are present.  In addition, a close-up on a radio meant trouble.

 I rented this movie because I had never seen it before and have watched it once.

 In this movie, the wife of an astronaut deals with suspicions of her husband after he is involved in an unusual event while in space.

 Several camera angles that are known for their ability to unsettle the audience were used throughout this movie.  During one scene where Spencer is acting aggressively towards his wife they used a shot of him looking directly up from beneath him.  It was pretty much the opposite of a bird's eye view.  It took a while for me to get used to seeing the image being filmed from that angle and focused on Spencer.  The use of this angle made him seem even more creepy and overpowering.  There is also an extreme low angle of Spencer's wife, Jillian, while she was digging in the refrigerator.  The odd camera angle was almost a piece of foreshadowing because you sensed that something was going to happen.  The next thing we know is that her husband shows up.  There was an oblique angle of the hand rail of the stairs leading to the subway.  At that time Jillian was hiding from Spencer below the rail and his hand was reaching towards it.  The use of this angle increased the amount of suspense in this particular situation.  Near the end of the film, Jillian is attempting to electrocute herself in a suicide attempt.  Spencer shows up and tries to manipulate her.  We get a bird's eye view of the scene as he gets electrocuted and killed.

  The use of the colors red and orange were tools of foreshadowing.  Jillian was cutting carrots when she cuts her finger.  She starts to clean it up when she sees the story of a problem that happened in space that involved her husband.  Sherman Reese was the only person that was willing to look into the possibility that something may have affected the astronauts while they were in space.  His red hat gave us the clue that something bad was going to happen to him.  It is later implied that Spencer kills him. One night, Jillian wakes from a dream in which Spencer is harming her sister.  She wakes shaken but convinced that it was just a dream and there was no chance that there was even the slightest possibility that it could be reality.  Jillian notices that Spencer's hands are red when he gets home that night.  She realizes that he has indeed done something to harm her sister.  She got the "vision" from the unborn twins that she was carrying.

 Early in the movie it gets stated that radios are the ways for the extra terrestrials to communicate with each other.  At a party there was a shot of a radio and the next thing we know a scream is heard and somebody has just committed suicide.  There are several close-ups on a radio in Spencer and Jillian's house.  This is foreshadowing that a situation similar to that is going to happen soon.

 Beware the odd camera angles.