While the movie isn't exactly something I'd want to watch over and over, the video quality and special features give us an idea of what Blu-ray is capable of.  The video transfer is crisp and bright, and the movie scenery looks downright beautiful at times.  While I wouldn't say the movie transfer looks like it's 1080p we have to remember that this movie wasn't shot with HD cameras, it's merely a film transfer.  Overall the video looks good and will probably wow those not yet accustomed to HD media.

The audio quality is good, specifications state that it's uncompressed audio, but on my 5.1 surround sound system it sounds like any other DVD.  I imagine an audiophile with the proper equipment would notice the difference, but most casual viewers and less technically savvy people will not.  Something I did notice is that the sound mix is a little uneven, sometimes the audio is well defined across my 5.1 surround system (sound travels to the proper speaker relative to what's happening on screen), while other times the audio mix seems neutral, with the same sounds coming out of all the speakers in equal levels.

One thing I found interesting were the navigational menus.  On a regular DVD you make a selection and are brought to another "page", sometimes with animation, sometimes without.  On this Blu-ray disc the main menu is an animated image of RV stuck on top of the mountain, similar to the movie poster.  Moving the selection around brings up menus in a manner similar to how the start bar functions in Windows XP.  This works for scene selection and bonus features.  This was surprising and pretty cool in my opinion, no more load times while waiting on a new menu page like on DVDs.  Another neat thing about the menus are that the main "RV image" menu can be brought up while watching the movie, as it will overlay the video, allowing you to skip to another chapter or access bonus features while watching the movie.  Pretty cool.

Overall I say this Blu-ray disc is worth purchasing if you enjoyed the movie even slightly.  It's a good introduction to the possibilities of Blu-ray technology, with good video quality, good audio, and a nice stash of bonus features (which are sadly lacking from most Blu-ray movies I've seen).  The Blu-ray method of menu navigation is very good and an improvement on DVD.  Couple these thoughts with the fact that this Blu-ray disc is the price of most new DVD releases, and there is simply no reason not to make this a part of your Blu-ray collection.