the two stars that i give to this film go entirely to Tilda Swinton (in a 5 star performance), who is simply phenomenal as Margaret Hall, a woman whose desperate actions in the face of extreme circumstances help altogether redefine our notions of a mother's love for her child. Swinton deserves all the more praise for the fact that she could even pull such a believable and, ultimately, heartbreaking performance from what is essentially a b-movie script with uninspired direction and altogether unimpressive supporting performances.
first off, it was impossible for me to sympathize with the plight of Margaret's son, Beau, because of the fact that Jonathan Tucker provides such a sniveling, pathetic portrayal that i actually had a difficult time believing he was worth all of his mother's effort. all he does in the film is whine and mope and blush like a pre-raphaelite maiden and stupidly cast off his mother's attempts at establishing some sort of meaningful rapport with him (and she makes some honest, real, and sensitive attempts). it is only at the end, after Margaret has been through absolute hell for him and back, that it suddenly begins to dawn on his brilliant little mind that she had been on his side all along. sure, sure, blame it on pig-headed adolescent teen angst if you will; perhaps i could have done the same if it wasn't for the fact that Tucker gives such a one-dimensional performance that obnoxiously screams, "hey, look at me, the troubled and sensitive teen!" without providing any of the depth to allow the character to resonate with us. this kid should really take some acting tips from Nick Stahl, who adds layers and layers of complexity to the similar "sensitive young man" he plays in "In the Bedroom."
and then there is the stunningly ludicrous plot development of Goran Visnjic's character -- you know, the one who threatens to expose Margaret's secret if she doesn't cough up a huge wad of dough -- actually falling in love with Margaret and, even more ridiculous, her actually returning his affections. i mean, sure, i realize that walking into a movie, i'm going to need to suspend disbelief to some extent, but come on, this is WAY too much for the filmmakers to ask. for Margaret to fall in love with the man who represents the greatest threat to her family's stability, the very threat that allows her to pull together the strength needed to act in the remarkable, if disturbing, ways she does, is to completely undermine the integrity of that strength.