**Possible spoiler warning, proceed at your own risk**

Full disclosure: I only became a Nightmare On Elm Street fan recently, and I come to it from the Hellraiser fandom; a franchise that has had its own problems during its twenty-year run. And while other people score the second Nightmare On Elm Street film as the weakest in the series, I feel that description unfortunately applies to this one.

Believe me, it's not the fault of the actors here. Robert Englund is always awesome, Lisa Zane acquits herself well here as Maggie, veteran actor Yaphet Kotto turns in a likable performance, and the teen actors are all up to snuff. No, this film is a great example of what can happen when you have great-to-decent actors, and a director and screenwriter who seem to be trying to add to the mythology without taking it or their audience seriously at all. This is especially sad, because this movie could have been so much more than it was, considering what the director and screenwriter had to work with.

Let me clarify: In my experience, any horror movie franchise succeeds or fails on the basis of its mythology. There was already plenty of stuff in Freddy's past to work with, but this storyline could have been a lot more palatable in the right hands. I can see Freddy Kreuger having shown evidence of psychopathic behavior in childhood considering how he was conceived, and it certainly looks as if his origin story as the "Springwood Slasher" presents itself as the "perfect storm" of nature vs nurture (or lacktherof.) But Rachel Talalay camps it up so broadly that the impact of it is lost.

Same with most of the deaths - we get one serious, brutal, oldschool Freddy-style killing with the character Carlos. But then there is the incident with the NES power glove, which I think has gone down as the weakest killing in the entire series. It makes sense; back in 1989/1990, video games were not seen as the valid medium and potential art form as they are today. But it just seems as if the director is mocking Freddy, his victim, and the film's primary viewing audience (teens) all at the same time. Hellraiser had its lowest moment in the fifth installment with the infamous "Kung Fu Cowboys" scene; the Power Glove killing is Nightmare on Elm Street's equivalent.

Freddy has always cracked jokes and twisted teen pop culture into something he can wield back at his chosen victims. This is one of his attractions as a character, going back to the first film. But one of the reasons why this has worked so much better in other films in the series and not in this one is because Freddy's antics are only supposed to be funny to Freddy. I think part of the shock and horror factor of his murderous acts comes from the sheer sadistic amusement that he derives from committing them. In the first five films, we as the audience were able wince at the horrific and ironic nature of the killings (custom-tailored as they were to his individual victims) even as we appreciated Freddy's wit. But the killings in and of themselves are not supposed to be funny, or resemble something out of a Warner Bros. cartoon.

Also not supposed to be funny: an entire town suffering from the loss of its children, to the point of mass catatonia. Yet it was also played for laughs. And don't even get me started on the Dream Demons. As someone who is more used to Clive Barker's mythology and universe, I was expecting something more like the Iad Uroboros, the Big Bads of the from Barker's "Book of Art" series; H.P. Lovecraft-style horrors who thrive on human nightmares and are the reflections of the worst in humanity, who are just waiting to break through from the dream world so that they can consume all of waking creation. Instead, we got cartoonish tapeworm-creatures with adorably high-pitched voices that resembled refugees from a Jim Henson picture. These are supposed to be the things behind Freddy's gory and nightmarish rise to power?

In the late 1990s/early 2000s, Joss Whedon reminded us that it is possible to be clever, witty, and fun with a horror franchise while still respecting both the subject matter and one's target audience, and he did it for seven seasons with the Buffy the Vampire Slayer series. (Come to think of it - I'd suffer almost any privation for a Nightmare On Elm Street movie directed by Joss Whedon.) Wes Craven not only managed it with the first film in the Nightmare franchise, he did it again with the seventh film "New Nightmare," before scoring another hit with the Scream films. Ronnie Yu did it with Freddy vs Jason.

I had to go pop the fourth and fifth Nightmare on Elm Street films (Dream Master and Dream Child) back into the DVD player just to get over the disappointment of this one - which is regrettable, because the mythology of Freddy's daughter and origin deserved so much better than treatment it got in this film.