***Yeah, this is going to contain spoilers....ooops, y'all!***

Okay..I just bought this DVD (used for $2), and was eager to see it based on trailer; but like most movies today, I'm left feeling like what I saw was an incomplete project.. It's kinda like an updated Testament-ish inspired piece, or it wishes it were that.. Now, I don't have a problem with the fact the blindness is never explained; many great films have the same kind of hook.. Also,  I didn't have a problem with the acting..well, not from the main characters anyway. I like Julianne Moore & Mark Ruffalo; although from time to time I kept thinking Moore was acting/playing that character as if she were Laura Liney playing the character..maybe that's just me.. afterall, both have similar acting styles....

  What I did have a BIG problem with is the fact that Julianne Moore's character, not only being the only one able to see, but the fact that when the hoods took over, she did nothing, when she had ample opportunity to do something. That was one of the main reasons she stayed & said she was blind like her husband. Had she taken control, as any normal person would; especially when we've been led to believe that her character was a strong & determined female from the moment she stepped on screen. Also, the film could have been wrapped up in about 90 mins.. The movie was 121 Mins, but it felt sluggish, tiresome & Titanic-ish in it's pace.. Though I did like the shovel scene where she flips the police or guards off..but that's all the protesting she did? The inflicted did nothing to deserve being treated like hardcore criminals & even shot like in the one scene

  Finally, there's the ending...which was downright odd.. it just suddenly ends.. There's no huge revalation or climax.. It's as if they ran out of budget or got bored making it (I was certainly bored by the end). Unless the ending was the first guy regaining his sight means EVERYONE will be getting their sight back?? OMG, then the clean up..and now they gotta discuss the rapes and acting like wild animals.. Afterall, we really aren't far off from jungle creatures.. So there's a sequel right there... Ugh, on second thought, I don't wanna see any MOORE of this movie..

I referenced 1983's underrated "Testament", & while that film was about nuclear holocaust & the aftermath, this film really wasn't about anything or anything important, which is ultimately frustrating because I really wanted to like this much more than I actually do...

  I also insist that when you have more than 5 studios/production companies making/financing a movie, it's usually because it's going to be a stinker, and I counted over a dozen companies involved here.. and I think it's safe to say that none of them made any money off this mess.