So there's a lot of very thorough negative reviews of this film so I won't go into detail here.  Bottom line for me is that this is not only THE worst Star Trek movie ever, but it also happens to be one of the worst movies I've seen.  I'd put it up there with Battlefield Earth.  Awful plot.  Horrible direction.  Pathetic special effects.  Characters are completely out of character. Just an abysmal movie no matter how you look at it.  I purchased the entire movie collection on Blu-ray and decided to watch The Final Frontier again (I've only seen it once when it was originally released, and that was enough)just to give it a second chance and to try and remain open minded.  But it really is an awful movie.  What bothers me most is that on the special features Harve Bennett gives a promo speech for the movie sporting a Vulcan hand-sign for "I cannot tell a lie" and proceeds to tell us that The Final Frontier is "Just as good if not better than The Voyage Home".  Please.  You're going to Vulcan purgatory for that one, Mr. Bennett.  My least favorite part of the movie is when Kirk is climbing El Capitan and Spock shows up in jet boots.  Wow.  You've got to be kidding.  Then Kirk falls and Spock does a 180 degree spin (showing his boots where his head used to be as if he's Wyle E. Coyote chasing the Roadrunner or something)and zooms down to rescue him before splattering on the rocks below.  The whole scene is cartoon-ish and completely ruins what may have been an interesting subplot of the three of them camping in Yosemite.  Oh well.  On the bright side, I love it when Scotty hits his head on the bulkhead after saying "I know this ship like the back of my hand".  Or when Sulu attempts to manually land the shuttle on the Enterprise and after Sybok asks him how many times he's done this before he replies, "Actually, this is my first attempt".  Great acting, great line.  Loved it.  Anyway, I could go on but I won't.  I just wish this movie could be erased from the historical record of Star Trek.  Yuck.