The second you hear Adam Sandler's voice saying, "Hi, I'm Happy Gilmore," you know this is going to be a funny movie. From its humorous jokes and vulgar language to the crude and insane parts, this movie will keep you laughing the whole time. Along with well known actors such as Christopher McDonald (Shooter), Julie Brown (Virginia), Carl Weathers (Chubbs) and of course, Bob Barker, this movie delivers a punch and leaves the audience falling of their seats with laughter.
 I've always thought that you could never go wrong with Adam Sandler, and this movie certainly proves my point. I have been a long time Adam Sandler fan and in my opinion, this is one of his best films. After his big movie debut a year earlier in, "Billy Madison (1995)," Sandler continues to prove that he is the real deal. In Happy Gilmore (1996), Sandler's dream is to become a professional hockey player but he isn't good enough to even make his local hockey team. He lives and breathes hockey and has a very wild and aggressive attitude while playing it. After finding out that his grandmother's house belongs to the government because of unpaid taxes, Sandler quickly finds a way to get the money for her. He is challenged to hit a golf ball by the movers and he winds up hitting it 400 yards. With the help of Chubbs and Virginia, Happy has to learn to keep his anger under control while playing the game, which is very difficult for him. The big ending is Happy facing Shooter for his grandmother's house because of an inside bet that was made between the two.
 There were many parts of the movie that made it unique to itself. First, the soundtrack of this movie creates a perfect scene.  This movie lacked depressing music, while various artists such as Lynard Skynard, House of Pain and Kansas, kept Happy Gilmore fast and upbeat and also created an exciting and exhilarating mood. Another element was the lighting throughout the movie. Since most of the movie took place outside on a golf course, it was bright outside. Although the director could have made rainy days, he chose to make the days sunny which could have given away that there was going to be a typical, "happy ending." And the last thing that I thought made this movie unique was bringing Bob Barker into the movie. I couldn't stop laughing after Sandler's and Barker's fight and how Sandler said to Barker, after he punched him to the ground, "The price is wrong, bitch." That was one of the best scenes of the whole movie.
  Looking at the plot structure of this movie, it is pretty plain and simple and there is not much to it. The movie is your average film with an average plot, however, it's Sandler's character that makes the plot so much more interesting. Put an average, unknown actor as Sandler's character in this movie and you you'll get a totally different movie. Sandler has a very unique character that he plays in all of his movies and only he can be that character. That's what is so great about Adam Sandler. He makes films amazing by just being his hilarious self which no one else can recreate. There was also a lot of symbolism in the film. The fact that Sandler's golf equipment is shaped like hockey sticks show how hockey is still his whole life and he isn't trying to change.  The theme in the movie is also pretty basic. It's the typical, "If you stick with it, you will succeed." The viewer can see this by how Happy goes through the, "giving up" stage which is followed by his friends telling him he can do it, and then he winds up getting everything he wants in the end, the money and the girl.
  Overall, this is a hilarious film that will keep the audience laughing the whole time. Although it is not an amazing film, it makes up for its flaws with its comedy. Scenes such as Sandler playing mini golf and tearing apart a mechanical clown on one of the holes to the more sincere scenes with Sandler and the girl he falls in love with keep the audience interested and entertained throughout the movie. I own this movie for a reason; because I love it, and I think you will too.