I'm an adult who is still a sucker for and fascinated by faerie tales, especially when they are faithful to the origingal concept/intent of the story. I feel that for the most part, this filmed version of 'The Snow Queen' does a fine job of it. Contrary to many reviews, I enjoyed Bridget Fonda as the Snow Queen. She was cold, detatched and potentially cruel-as is the season that she embodies. All of the other actors were invested and talented, except the woman playing Summer, but more on that later.

What I love about this particular faerie tale is how it relates to the concept that love must endure all seasons and be tested harshly at every turn. This is a human truth and a morality tale that holds true through the time that has passed since this story's genesis. Gerda is tested by each of the seasons to retrieve her lost love, Kai, as he has been abducted by the Snow Queen. The movie is wonderful at personifying each season (except summer) as Gerda fights to rescue Kai. The imagery is lush and easy to get lost in.

Gerda begins with Spring. I loved the unyielding innocence of the lady of Spring. The actress that portrays her is remarkable. Then Gerda confronts the lady of Summer. I hated this part of the film and it is the ONLY reason that I gave the film four instead of five stars. The actress is horrid. She reduces a timeless tale to Disney Channel/empty Hollywood fare. (and after all, didn't those two forces destroy faerie tales in the first place?) It's the only part I cannot bring myself to watch again.

Gerda them moves on to Fall. I loved this bit. She was very Earthy almost Pagan. Wild and unrestrained. She is fearless and destroys the remnants of Summer with a delightful glee.

Then, the finale. I really dug the bit about Satan and the mirror. I felt that it exposed the vanity of each of the seasons. Wonderful. Yes, I agree that it could frighten young children, but it is essential to the plot. What should be more frightening to these parents (who have written reviews) is Hannah Montana. Shows like that kill the imagination and waste the time of too many young children. Do them a favor and rent or buy this film and also Shelley Duvall's Faerie Tale Theatre.