No wonder it got canceled. If you where expecting a beatiful story line like ones you play or something a unique story like ff series usually does. Well guess what your not gonna find it here. Usually i would atleast compliment the graphics here but the main charactes seem more like background sketches that the animators didn't really care about. Oh and the digital graphics. The digital graphis where nice at first til they got extremely repetive and they seemed to be forced on to conclude the episodes. The only thing that i can't really critisize for the very little fact the he it never fails is the soundtrack. It seems that the only one who actually cared for this project was Nobuo Uematsu which he never fails to bring the soundtrack to life with the Final Fantasy series. Don't get me wrong I wasnt expecting something final Fantasish. But, it said on the box it was based in the final fantasy world. So now the final fantasy world is called wonderland? I didn't know that final fantasy was inhabited by a bunch of patato sack looking people. I can't belive i was even curious to buy the whole box set. Im disapointed for the fact that i actually trusted on square enix to provide atleast a good story line. If your curious of the anime it wouldnt be better to just watch the last Cd. The writers drag you threw all the anime wondering the characters past yet they manage to unveiled their secrets in the last episodes near the end. The series was meant to be more than 26 episodes but it sucked so bad that they canceled it. Oh yeah it got that bad. Also on the trasilation seems like a train wreck. If you dont watch it by subtitles you might miss the Final fantasy feel of the story which is extremely sad i found that out near the end. In my opinion this was wrost than spirits with in. I tried to like it but i couldn't manage with such crumy character models that seemed that they where done by amatures at gonzo. I think the reason for the making of this anime was either for: To scare people about crossovers and how bad they can get. Or Square-enix and Gonzo where making so much money Square enix said "hey lets make something that lowers our sales!" and Gonzo was probably like "Hey yeah let's make it a series that kid's can't grasp the concept and it's too dumb for adult's to like. lets just put mushroom people!" If your a kid and like this you probably would get distracted by a passing bird in the sky and forgot what you were doing one second later. It get's that bad. I though i never said this but, I finally found an anime that i dont like at all. Next time when i try to do something like this I'll just flush money down the toilet. Honestly i wouldn't watch it agian unless they would pay me or I was lossing all hope for human kind. Bottom line:

Storyline: -1/5

Animation: 2/5

Music:  3/5 (I wouldn't recomend the sountrack though it's too expesive.)

Overall: 1/5 that's cause too many people praised it making it sound like its a great anime when its not. I would rather sit down and watch pokemon(I dont like pokemon...) Then to see it agian.