Like many other reviewers I measured this movie against my own law school experience.  In the early 70's law school was very politicized, a reality conveniently ignored in this movie.  Thus, while Hart, played by Timothy Bottoms, has the signature long hair of 70's social concern his character is left to joust with the vagaries of all-too-selfish love and desire, rather than meaning.

Like a child seeking his stern father's approaval, the main character cultishly devotes himself to professor Kingsfield (John Houseman), the aloof, high-priest of Harvard Law School and Hart is content to vie to join the privileged hierarchy of the Church of the Bar.

What we receive is a conformist messages from the film: It is enough to look the part of integrity and principle but in the end the only solution is to capitulate in the face of tradition and academia.  I would have preferred a dialogue between these two forces, outsider and insider.  That there is no struggle other than to master the arcane language of English common law says it all.  Driven to despair and exhaustion one dreams only of success.  The only option that seems available is to save oneself from drowning in a sea of overwhelm as happens to the unfortunate character of Kevin who, in the book, turns his despair and his shotgun on himself.

I would have been equally disappointed had Bottoms' character been the onesided presence in the film.  While Houseman reaches greatness, the script is hobbled and reminds us too much that we are unwilling to strive for real dialogue which is the true depth of the Socratic method.

The canned relationship between Hart and Susan is another aspect of chosing safety and cliche over maturity and worked for intimacy.

What a shame that the excellence of Houseman's acting didn't spill over into the whole endeavor of the film.  What a tribute to individual tallent and devotion.  Ironically, Houseman (according to the producer's commentary) was only ever considered for the film by chance.  The 21 year old co-producer met him and, even though Houseman had never acted before, the young man saw in him the image of Kingsfield.  Maybe that freshness of perception, along side the tragedy that can be the system, is the greatest legacy of the film.