After struggling to watch the trouble-plagued DVD's of LEAVE IT TO BEAVER released by Universal a few years back, it's great to see that Shout! Factory has come to the rescue and produced a beautifully packaged set of the COMPLETE series.  So far I've only checked out a few episodes from Season 3, but everything I've seen looks and sounds fantastic.  At last, one of the best TV shows of all time has been given the top-notch treatment it deserves on DVD.

As for the series itself, I'd like to offer a few comments about the show's strengths and weaknesses.  First off, I'll have to say that BEAVER was probably better than any series in TV history at creating a believable town. The writers did a great job of establishing and consistently referring to local sites such as Metzger's Field, Friends Lake, Miller's Pond and so on.  The frequent use of outdoor scenes also added much to the believability.

Other viewers have commented about the series having a lot of charm, and this is certainly true.  The things that stand out for me personally are not the plots or the acting, but rather the simple moments showing the kids just being kids: Wally and the gang playing basketball in the driveway, Beaver waiting for his father to get home from work, the boys daydreaming about how they would spend a million dollars. These are things I remember experiencing in my own childhood, and the series did a marvelous job of capturing the essence of youthful innocence.

On the negative side, sometimes I wish the writers and actors had loosened up a bit.  The characters (adults and kids alike) often seem a little TOO well behaved and proper, and the dialogue tends to be a little stiff.  What's most annoying, though, are the constant, anything-but-subtle messages about parenting and child behavior.  The series could almost have been called LESSONS FOR YOUNG PARENTS, given the number of stories that end with Ward and June talking about how they could have better handled their latest family problem.

There are quite a few good episodes in the first two seasons ("Beaver Runs Away" and "Happy Weekend" come to mind), but in my opinion the series reached its peak in its third year.  The writers and cast really had things down to perfection in Year 3.  Towards the end of the fourth season the show started to lose some of its freshness, mainly because Jerry Mathers was growing up and naturally beginning to lose his little-boy charm.  Also, the characters of Ward and June turned closer to being caricatures in the final seasons, always being flawlessly groomed and speaking perfect English.

Random thoughts...

It's kind of hard to tell just how big a place Mayfield is supposed to be.  Sometimes it seems like a small town (as when Beaver visits old Gus at the fire station), but other times (as with scenes of the busy downtown area and the upscale sporting goods store) it seems like a pretty good-sized city.

The pilot, "It's A Small World", is kind of eerie to watch.  It's almost as if you're looking at the Cleaver family in an alternate universe.  At first glance everything seems about the same, but then you start to notice familiar faces with different names, and vice versa. Spooky!  It's interesting to note that in the pilot Mr. Cleaver is shown SMOKING (hard to imagine Hugh Beaumont as Ward puffing away on a cigarette while talking to his wife). Also, in the pilot Wally and Beaver seem to be looked upon as outcasts rather than popular kids: both of them are referred to as being "creeps" by the other boys.

Tony Dow's lack of acting experience is pretty evident in the very early episodes.  However, he improved rapidly, and by the end of the series he was probably the most natural actor in the cast.  In fact, during the final two seasons the best episodes were those centering around Wally, not Beaver.

It's kind of funny when you think about it, but the Cleavers were, to put it bluntly, ultra-square.  After all, the series was produced during the heyday of the early rock `n roll era, but Wally and his pals went to formal dances, wore suits and ties, and never did anything wilder than the cha-cha.  Apparently those Chuck Berry and Elvis Presley records never made it to the music stores in Mayfield!

BEAVER was produced in a time when gender roles were pretty rigidly enforced.  In one episode Beav is invited to an all-girl party and has a miserable time until he sneaks off to a room filled with hunting trophies and guns -- in other words, the things a HE-MAN should like.  (On a side note, the little girl's father in that segment is played by Lyle Talbot, who was a fairly big movie star in the 1930's.)  Elsewhere in the first season, Wally is eager to enroll in a military academy where the biggest attraction is that all the teachers are MEN.

Even with its shortcomings, though, LEAVE IT TO BEAVER still stands as one of television's all-time top comedies, and its blend of gentle wisdom and low-key humor will certainly keep audiences laughing for years to come.  In today's entertainment world of wretched excess and cheap laughs, it's certainly a welcome treat.