Perhaps I came to this five part mini-series with way too high expectations but I was quite disappointed in the overall experience.  The good points are:  it's refreshing to see a series that features two middle-aged grownups as the lovers and, to this American, the scenery and visits to historical places in Scotland and other points in Great Britain were a real treat.  But that is, unfortunately, all this weak and rather silly "mystery story" (and I'm being generous when I use that phrase) has going for it.

The first episode was promising with fairly witty dialogue and an amusing take on the sorry state of British higher education (which is, sadly, similar to the sorry state of American higher education.) But after that, things went downhill fast.  The hero "meets cute" a woman who happens to be a recently suspended police officer.  They embark on an odyssey to unravel several mysteries--the location of a reclusive creator of crossword puzzles and to discover who or what is behind a series of murders.

A promising set-up but things quickly go from acceptably unusual to boringly bizarre.  The plot gets weaker and weaker, the characters embarassingly fey (the tip off to how mediocre this series was going to be was when we met the oh-so-hip, jazz loving aristocrat in his highland castle which looked like it had been decorated by a blind homeless person using yard sale castoffs.  Were the people who made this series trying to be cute or was their budget so crimped that's all they could afford?)

The dialogue was trying so hard to be a combination of humorous, erudite, and profound that you could feel the screenwriter leafing through his Bartlett's quotations.  The hero and heroine, of course, fall in love but much too quickly start sleeping together and spend most of the series learing at each other in and out of bed.  Note to producers:  when creating a mystery-romance--especially a middle-aged lovers romance--let us vicariously experience the hero and heroine falling in love before the shagging.  We like some angsty romance before our sex, thank you very much.  Take a cue from Jane Austin.  The longer you can keep the hero and heroine yearning for each other and out of bed the more interested we are in watching the story to see what it will be like when they finally get together.  Don't put your lovers together in the first reel.  It seriously diminishes the fun for your audience.

Watch this for the scenery, or if you're a die-hard Alan Bates fan, but don't expect much in the way of plot or dialogue.