First, let me say that I remain a fan of Shyamalan.  He is an expert story teller and has an obvious passion for making films come alive as few directors can.  I have adored each movie he has made including the very underrated The Village...until now.  No director has a flawless body of work, no matter how talented they are, and Night is no exception.

Lady in the Water is the tale of a lonely hotel superintendent (Paul Giamatti) in Philadelphia whose life is miraculously saved by a water nymph named Story, who comes from the ocean, or, "The Blue World".  Supposedly this fits with an old Japanese bedtime story and soon begins to prove true.  Piece by piece, Giamatti tries to put it all together and help Story return home by finding all of the necessary people in his hotel who apparently represent characters from the bedtime story.  The problem with this premise is that it is too far removed from reality.  While perhaps interesting to imagine, somehow it just doen't translate to the screen.

The acting by leads Giamatti and Bryce Dallas Howard as well as most of the supporting cast is great.  The disappointment comes directly from Night himself.  While this departure from his trademark "shock ending" movies may well have been a personal story or statement he just had to tell, it simply doesn't live up to what audiences have come to expect.  There are numerous lame moments and some pretty stupid characters (like the guy who only lifts weights with one side of his body and a cliche film critic).  Plus there is little to keep the viewers attention, save the hope that the story will improve.  It doesn't. Even with the addtion of the other storybook creatures, something fails to connect.

There is nothing wrong with going against expectations, and I believe Night's decision to make Lady in the Water does reveal yet another dimension of his depth as a person.  The bottom line then is that although his intentions were good, the deliverance was ultimately foggy.  Even though he did market the movie as a bedtime story, I doubt very many of us took that literally.  He is still immensely talented and I look forward to his next project.

And please don't take my word for it.  See this movie and make up your own mind.