I share the sentiments of many reviewers above: this movie was a major disappoinment. Having seen American and Japanese versions of other recent Japanese horror films and enjoyed them (especially The Ring/Ringu) I had an open mind going to see this film. However, without making any comparison with the original version of this film, I can't say I enjoyed it.

Initially, the film seemed to be headed in the proper direction with loads of moody, suspenseful atmosphere, beautifully executed through skillful cinematography. In truth, the visual presentation of this film comes close to capturing the stark and foreboding beauty of David Fincher's Se7en (1995). Perhaps Se7en offers more variety, but the feel is there.

The cast, too, had everything in the right places, with a wonderful Jennifer Connelly as Dahlia, a working mother who is forced by a divorce from a life in New York city to the rent-controlled slums of Roosevelt Island in order to make it on her own with her school-aged daughter Ceci (Ariel Gade). John Reily's likeable but sheister slumlord, Dougray Scott's self-interested ex-husband, Pete Postlewaite's creepy handyman, Cameron Manheim's teacher, and Tim Roth's lawyer are also all carefully played and given rich inner lives of their own. Dozens of little touches are added to create their realities in throwaway shots that do much to add to the reality of this illusion. The sense of loneliness, claustrophobia, and desperation in this world is easy to empathise with.

The faults of the movie lie mainly in its failure to move past its initial beat. The tension of the film begins and remains at a constant suspended tempo throughout nearly the entire film. Instead of using this suspense to create a response with the audience, however, the filmmaker relies on cheap scare film cliches. A scream sound effect plays as Dahlia finally discovers the dark secret? A little girl whispers a lullaby in the darkened apartment? Doors slamming every time the opportunity arrives for it to be slightly surprising? The result is like being stuck in a broken haunted house ride and being able to hear the creepy sound effect CD loop and the same monster jump out over and over again. There is no contrast by which the audience can experience a change in feeling and I was left numb by the one-track buildup.

The obviousness of this approach culminates at the end, where one of the most contrived endings ever to emerge from Hollywood nearly ruins the whole film. You can almost hear the producer shouting "I don't care if it's crap! The audience must have closure!" The climax of the film actually generated laughter in the theater where I saw this. For all the intelligence of the characters and the craft that went into making this film look right, to push something as banal and obviously poised for shock value is close in cheesiness to having an usher dressed in a scary costume jump out at audience members as they leave the theater. And ultimately, this last climax the only payoff ever to emerge from the film's hour and a half windup.

To sum up, this film appears to be yet another confused film in which Hollywood assembles a neat row of perfectly good trees but fails to create a forest. I felt stupid walking out of the theater. My hat is off to the actors and cinematic folks for doing their jobs - the fault in this movie clearly belongs to writer, producer, and director. Three stars on the strength of the former alone.