"Fried Green Tomatoes" has been my favorite movie ever since it came out over thirteen years ago.  I was a child at the time, and fell in love with the film.  It is such an enjoyable film that it is more than likely to watch it over and over and never get sick of it, as I have.  The film was a much-needed change from the normal romantic comedies, dramas and action films of the late '80s and early '90s.  It bridges the gap between many borders, including age, race, sex, and even sexual orientation, a fact more so apparent in the book than in the movie, but even still visible.  Many people may remember the writer of the book "Fried Green Tomatoes At the Whistle Stop Cafe" from such shows as "Harper Valley, P.T.A." and "Match Game."  She is none other than the irresistably funny, and unjustifiably southern, Fannie Flagg (she even has a cameo role as a relationship expert trying to help the main character, Evelyn put that "spark" back into her marriage).  The filmization is one such example of Hollywood bringing more justice to the book than the book brings to itself (this is highly subjective, of course).

Let's take a tour of the movie.  Lonely, overweight housewife, Evelyn Couch (pleasantly played by Oscar-winner Kathy Bates) arrives at a nursing home with her sports-loving and equally overweight husband Ed Couch (played by veteran TV comic Gailard Sartain), where he is going to see his aunt Vesta.  This is where Evelyn runs into a spritely octogenarian named Ninny Threadgoode (played beautifully as always by Oscar-winning actress Jessica Tandy), who opens up a can of worms by asking Mrs. Couch, "Does the name Idgie Threadgoode ring a bell?"  From there, Ninny proceeds to relate a sweeping tale centering around two friends in the 1920s and 1930s.  Supposedly, she had been the widow of one of the character's brothers.  The story is about the tomboy Imogene Louise Threadgoode, nicknamed "Idgie" (played by a young Mary Stuart Masterson, giving, to me the best performance in the film), and her friend and former love interest of her elder brother, Ruth Jamison (played equally well by Mary-Louise Parker).  Every holiday, Evelyn Couch would reappear in the nursing home to hear more about Idgie and Ruth's life sixty years earlier, while her life is transformed as a result.  She had been taking a marriage counseling class, but had abandoned that due mainly to Ninny's tales.  Soon, she finds herself visiting Mrs. Threadgoode (who, by the way is only there to look after the Threadgoode's old maid's baby sister, but is going home as soon as she gets better), more and more just to hear about the trials and tribulations of the south of the 1930s.  Ninny tells her everything beginning in 1920, and ending in 1939.  It includes death, love, marriage, death, birth, entrepreneurship, death, scandal, a courtroom battle, and death, all in that order!  In the end, Evelyn has learned many things thanks to Mrs. Threadgoode, and wishes to care for her in her final years.  The movie ends with the viewer wondering one thing only.  If you watch it you will see what I am talking about!

The cast of the film is wonderful.  As I've said previously, you will see Kathy Bates as Evelyn Couch, Jessica Tandy as Ninny Threadgoode, Mary Stuart Masterson as Idgie Threadgoode, Mary-Louise Parker as Ruth Jamison (later Bennett), and Gailard Sartain as Ed Couch.  Other members of the cast were equally as good as the prime actors:  Chris O'Donnell as Buddy Threadgoode, and Lois Smith as the matriarch of the Treadgoode household, Stan Shaw as Big George, Gary Basaraba as the town sheriff, Grady Kilgour, and Grace Zabriskie as the saloon proprietor.  Perhaps the most underrated performance of the movie would have to go to the one given by the immensely talented Cicely Tyson, playing Sipsey, the Threadgoode's lifelong maid.  Her actions, are both humorous as well as emotionally charged.

All in all, this film is a classic and is just beautiful in every sense of the word.  If you are still curious, just rent it and see for yourself, I'm sure you won't be disappointed.  And, what I said in the beginning is true, "Fried Green Tomatoes" really is my VERY VERY favorite film of all-time.  There is not one single film better to me.  Enjoy!