I saw this motion picture, 'The Departed,' about a month ago at our Union theater for free (thankfully) and all I can say is... "Wow, I'm impressed!" Impressed with, not the movie itself, but with how arrogantly lofty its ratings are. There are five types of viewers who will absolutely adore this movie to the point of sleeping with it underneath their pillows every night while in bed: viewers who love watching other individuals get their heads blown off, followed immediately by the gushing of blood leaking and pouring out of the same location; viewers who are sick and tired of so-called "happy" resolutions (trust me, you definitely won't find one of those here so you should be okay); viewers who try to stay away from any movie of less than 2 hours; viewers who enjoy excessive amounts of pointless violence; and finally, viewers who are intolerable movies being "predictable." If you are seeing this movie for the first time, and you are trying to figure out what will happen next, then 9 times out of 10, your guess may be less than accurate. I have read enough movie reviews to know what kind of movie will be well-perceived by the public and what kind will be treated like some kind of dangerous black mold or toxic waste; but as for the writer of this review, I personally could care less about any of the five aforementioned categories, so in that sense, I have to stay neutral. The students with whom I saw this film absolutely fell in love with it. My mother and her male friend, on the other hand, saw it months earlier and they didn't seem to think it was all that, and after all the great things that I had heard and read about it, I wondered why, but now I think I have a pretty good idea.

As for the leading performers themselves, well, I had always wondered what it might be like to see Matt Damon and Leonardo di Caprio in a movie together, which actually, was the main reason that I had had any interest in seeing it at all. The former does a pretty good job with his character and at no point in the film does he ever appear as if he was reading off a cue card, or some nonsense like that, even though personally, I liked him better in 'Ocean's Eleven.' As for the latter, he, too, delivers a stellar presentation, especially in the scene where he's getting his already-injured hand smashed, banged up against a table, and then beaten with a shoe. Even Jack Nicholson comes through with a praiseworthy presentation with his character, even though I always thought that 'The Shining' was his landmark role.

I definitely can't say that 'The Departed' is any where close to being my favorite movie. In fact, I can't even say that it is close to being in my Top 10, and it is certainly not one that I have any intention of buying anytime soon. On the other hand, I'll probably just rent it as it did have a couple of parts that actually tried to be good or make any sense. One thing that I have found is that a vast majority of viewers almost always fall into one or more of the five categories mentioned in paragrah # 1, so in that sense, it definitely won't have a tough time establishing a fan base who would equate it with some form of high-ranking personal status. To think that this actually won "Best Picture of 2006" award is enough to make you wonder just how far filmmakers went to bribe the Academy THIS time. There's been a lot of that going on in the past few years or so. Additionally, the movie can also be found somewhere on IMDb's Top 250 list (Who knows? Maybe I can bribe the staff members of that website to include a movie I like somewhere on that list, too.), for those readers who refuse to come into close contact with any motion picture that is not. However, if you are looking for a film that is not only on IMDb's Top 250 list, but is actually good, then I would suggest either 'The Shawshank Redemption' or either one of the 'Toy Story' movies as good places to start... and perhaps, even finish.