I will begin by saying I love this trilogy. "The Curse of the Black Pearl" blew everyone's expectations and became one of the most beloved films of the 2000s. "Dead Man's Chest" was a darker film but still was well-received by audiences wanting more pirate swashbuckling. With the release of "At World's End," I expceted it to be an epic sea tale that would put all others to shame. Sadly, it doesn't even come close.
  I won't bother explaining the plot because everyone knows it by now. I will explain, however, why it let me down so spetacularly. For one thing, the film is far too long; there are so many scenes that could have been cut from it (for example, every scene in which Jack sees multiple versions of himself, and I mean ALL of them) that it blows my mind that director Gore Verbinski thought it would be good to keep them; so many scenes are present that add absolutely nothing to the story. Not only that, but the story is just far too complicated to be enjoyed; for a sea tale like this (especially a trilogy cap), this was the biggest error. Too many things happen at once without explanation, meaning we have no time to figure out or enjoy what is happening. If the people involved weren't so lazy as to think that audiences could comprehend what transpires, it would have been a grand-scale knockout (like "The Return of the King"). But I believe the biggest mistake this film (and "Dead Man's Chest") makes is that it forsakes old-school swashbuckling for pirate mythology and supernatural intrigue. In doing this, it made the trilogy into a fantasy trilogy, not a pirate trilogy. Sure, some of it is cool, but never once did "At World's End" (or "Dead Man's Chest") feel like a pirate film. Now correct me if I'm wrong, but I thought these films were supposed to feel that way, and BE that way from the start. For this I am gravely ashamed.
  For all the myriad faults that plague "At World's End," there are good things to recommend, mainly the production values. One of the film's strengths is that it has a strong sense of place; you feel like you're anywhere the characters are, from Davy Jones' Locker to the giant maelstrom; not an easy thing for a film (or a whole trilogy) to achieve. The special effects are very first-rate, and even spetacular at times. Visuals are the film's strong point. It shows us things we've never seen before (like an ocean graveyard with lost souls drifting just beneath the surface surrounded by derelict boats occupied by those whose death was at sea, or a pirate safehouse made entirely of shipwrecks). I give this credit to the whole series, but "At World's End" feels incredibly visually accomplished (though "Dead Man's Chest is the most visually thrilling). I love it when films take me to different worlds, and this film did that for me. The action sequences were also quite good, particularly the maelstrom sequence.
  My biggest hopes for the future of the series is that if there is indeed a part four (and believe me, there could be), let us hope the filmmakers have learned from their mistakes and make part four everything "At World's End" should have been. Savvy?