Okay folks, it's really simple.  This film was produced and financed through the Palestinian Authority. It is propaganda, not fact.

This film does not acknowledge that the U.N. and humanitarian groups certified that there was no massacre: 30 armed terrorists, 22 civilians and 35 Israeli soldiers were killed -- NOT 3,000 civilians, as the Palestinian Authority claims.  This film also won't bother to tell you that the Israeli military operation, Defensive Shield, came on the heels of nearly daily suicide attacks within Israel's internationally accepted borders, which murdered over 130 civilians in April 2002 alone, including those who perished in the Passover Massacre at the Park Hotel in Netanya.

We regularly support aerial bombing of enemy targets in Afghanistan, even in Iraq, yet we fail to support Israel's care in refusing to use this tactic and instead commiting ground troops to the more risky (for Israeli soldiers) urban warfare approach, in a bid to prevent civilian deaths.

No one reviewing this film, or the film itself, acknowledges that the presence of armed groups and their weapons caches and factories WITHIN civilian areas is a war crime and that the Geneva Conventions themselves acknowledge this fact and remove protections against civilian areas which harbor military and paramilitary targets.  They certainly won't mention the many 'staged' funerals which were put on for the international media (there was some famous footage where a dead body fell off it's stretcher, then stood up and climbed back on the stretcher so that the 'funeral' could progress).

If you're interested in the truth, and prefer to not be  brainwashed, I would recommend Canadian journalist Martin Himmel's "Jenin: Massacring the Truth", which utilizes home video footage from Israeli reservists and Palestinian terrorists, who filmed the conflict, as well as frank interviews with the terrorists themselves.  Unforunately, Amazon does not yet offer this documentary, but it is available elsewhere online (do a websearch).