i saw this film on its premiere in the theaters and honestly, i was very disappointed, but exhilarated at the same time. for one thing, keep in mind that if you have seen the first two films and are from a generation of movie goers who have 'seen it all' that, unless there is perverse graphic violence and gratuitous amounts of flesh with a twisted sense of humor thrown in, you will laugh this one off. for one, it's all been done before. two, there was so much hype surrounding this film that unless it went from 0 - 60 in 4 seconds, it didn't live up to its expectations. as a film, in regards to the story line and acting, yeah, it's weak. the whole 'found footage' element is getting rediculous. and because this franchise is trying to mill out as much product as it can to capitalize on the name, the entire project feels rushed and contrived. as for the film as a whole....

for one, the single most annoying thing about this flick is the fact that so many scenes, scenes depicted in the trailer, did not even make the final cut. there is controversy surrounding these decisions, but as a movie goer expecting to see what was advertised, it is gravely disappointing to wait to see what seems like a scarey part in the previews to not even take place in the actual film. lame,  inexcusable, and downright false advertising, if you ask me. two, i didn't exactly have a stop watch going but i swear, in the theater, this felt like the shortest major motion picture of all time.  if it lasted 1 hour and 10 mins that is a generous estimate. is there any merit to this film?? you betcha...

although they keep repeating a lot of the same scares, at least this time they do it with a little twist. instead of the stationary video camera from the other two offerings,  they rig it up to an oscilating fan that pans side to side which was a cool effect. also, there absolutely are some good creeps and scares in this and without a doubt, the ending is a major shock and scare (getting goosebumps even thinking about it). trust me, there are definitely some good frights in this film but as i said, if you think good horror is seeing someone disembowled and than fileted on a grill, you won't like it. (knowing that kids today think they are above anything remotely supernatural and that it could never be contrived as frightening is the real horror in this society to me)

if you enjoyed the first two films, i'm sure you will like it...just don't expect to see exactly what you saw in the previews because it's not here. i haven't yet gotten this on dvd so there may be some 'deleted scenes' bonus but, those scenes still were not in the true film and as i said, it is majorly annoying. if you haven't seen any of these films and especially if you didn't like them, i don't see how this film will change your mind on paranormal activity. as i said, there are definitely some cool and genuine scares but as a whole, it falls short.