It's a late Friday night. I have my soda, my popcorn and a little yogurt with Dora's cheery face smiling back. I wonder why. Even poor, litle, optomistic Dora's face would be cringing in disgust. This was one of those movies goaded onto me by a cousin, insisting that it would be a thrill and chill-littered romp. Boy, was she wrong. Stay Alive is a horror flick targeting the gaming crowd and all too easily satisfied teen audience at large who lust for nothing more than blood, guts and any other form of creative deaths. Let me tell you, if you are into that thing, and there isn't neccesarily anything wrong with that, watch Final Destination 3. Creative deaths and ... simply better.

The movie centers around a gang of gaming buddies. In that sense, SA did it's homework, and it gets a solid C. It knows the names of critically praised survival horror games. Silent Hill and Fatal Frame were mentioned, and any of it's fans will be pleased to hear the names uttered, if only once or twice. These gamers find themselves immersed into a video game known as Stay Alive in a rather unpleasent way. The game has this nasty habit of making it's presence known outside of the tv screen (or Alienware brand laptops, the product placement is rather blatant), and anyone who dies in the game dies in the real world in the same manner. The only way to end the chain of death is by killing the malevolent spirit that is the game's creator; the Blood Countess. I find that to be a really big plothole. I dont care if perhaps it's to be left to the viewers imagination, but it takes a whole team of up to a hundred people to develop a game. Dont forget to mention the money involved, and that Stay Alive made a debut on the cover of GameInformer near the end, an excellent magazine that interviews the developers of the cover games. It's just that one freakin' lady, see the plot holes!?!?

You'd expect that this calls for either stock deaths (how many ways can you really die in a game?) or something really contrived, and elaborate and thus really cool (then again, there are some very awesome death sequences in games that brings up a guilty giddiness). Honestly, it isn't something you haven't seen before.

The plot develops far too quickly in the first 20 minutes. The protaganists find out everything they need to know about the game too quickly. This wouldn't be too bad if this was something along the lines of Texas Chainsaw Massacre, but it's not. The movie tries for a sense of a mystery, drawing from the Japanese staple of horror - fear in the unkown. But with the quick development it fails. That the movie is so short doesn't help. You will be hard pressed to accurately locate the climax. The main antagonist, only known as the Blood Countess, has some rather spotty appearances. You are left unsure wondering wether she should have made her prescence earlier and more often or not, thus rendering the game torn between a limbo of Japanese horror ideals and that of Western ideals.

I haven't seen too many horror flicks. I am simply squeamish. Of all I've seen though (maybe 3-5) I've never been too scared. Perhaps I have nerves of steel (which I doubt), or the movies just aren't that scary. Stay Alive is most definitely the latter. My cousin had a little jump and is still a little freaked out, but I departed from the movie with a few chuckles and bitterness which is still fermeting in the backs of my mind. Too short. Too predictable (how can you honestly be scared with the tell-tale camera angles?). And simply mediocre. There is little that will really scare you. And in general little that will impress you. The so called game footage, when our actually well acted out protaganists are playing Stay Alive has problems that real gamers will quickly point out. The lack of an HUD, the cinematic camera angles, and the switch of POV's during those sequences is rather irritating.

The 'game footage' bits do have some nice graphics, the music is well done and the actors do a fine job. The concept is cool too. But the execution was ultimately flawed. I hope that it gets a remake in the future, this time longer, with more depth, and a different direction to do the concept justice. Until then, it's GAME OVER for Stay Alive.