Excellent, excellent, excellent!
Many of us associate Robin Williams with funny didactic movies that always end with a  moral value.  Well, in this live on Broadway standup routine (recorded for HBO from the Broadway Theater in New York City) Robin Williams throws whatever morallity he has out the window and enjoys an open mic.  
Watching this made me laugh until I was crying and suffering abdominal pain.  For those of you expecting "Flubber" or "Hook" you will be quite suprised that Mr. Williams is extremely dirty and political as he throws controversial jokes straight at the camera.  
To explain the topics he covers is impossible because he is so fast and is capable of changing subjects so fast that to try to explain what it is about is far beyond my ability.  In fact, he goes so fast, he finishes an entire CASE of water, which is probably about 20 bottles.  
More specifically, Williams takes advantage of his large talent of character acting and astounds his audiences.  As he jumps back between is French "Look, I give a cigarette to a baby" to George Dubya saying "Our economy is--oh, look at the kitty!"  He is not afraid to offend anyone as he examines religeons like Episcipals, Jews, Christianity, Puritanism, Calvanism, Buddism, Hinduism, and Islam.  
Because of the fact that this is a DVD, it comes with a few extra features.  First is an interview which is very charming with several chuckles allthe way through.  Also included is a track of noises, which are all of Robin's wacky sound effects that he creates throughout the stand up routine.  For those of you who are always excited to find a secret easter egg, there is also a track called "Parental Advisory" that is 2 minutes of all the curses (which are EXTREMELY plentiful) that Robin uses.  The feature is in PCM stereo as well as Dolby Digital 5.1.
The Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound I thought seemed a little weird since at random times you will hear applause behind you and it sounds unnnatural most likely due to bad mixing/editing.
I would not, however, recommend any of this DVD for children under the age of 13, depending on how mature your children are.  This probably deserves to be rated R or possibly even NC-17 because of it's extremely naughty language, vulgar topics and sexual content.  
All-in-all, Robin Williams is absoluletly hilarious, I think this is probably the best stand up routine I've ever seen and is definately worth the price.