I was so disappointed with Disney's recent attempt to revive the Winnie the Pooh "franchise" that I had little faith they would do any better with the Muppets.

Was I wrong!  This is a sweet and hilarious film, perhaps the best Muppets effort ever.

Now for sure, the absence of Jim Henson and Frank Oz are felt here -- but so are the Muppets!  Wocka wocka!

Seriously, though, this movie will be welcome to all the fans of the Muppet TV series and movies, and serve as a superior introduction to a younger generation who may wonder just what magic muppetry can provide in the age of CGI.

The jokes here work -- even Fozzy's!  The songs are cute -- and they don't go on too long!  There are many cameos of celebrities both young and old!  (And I'm dating myself when I admit that I didn't have a clue who the young man portraying the human version of Walter the Muppet is -- I didn't recognize his face or his name.  Is this guy a pop star?  A reality TV person?  He looks too slight to be an athlete and too young to be a politician. Ah well...)

In addition, the muppetry has never been more seamless -- the Muppet performances and fluid direction combine to make you forget you're looking at marionettes from the git go.

Of the human performers on display here, the Muppets deploy a secret weapon -- Amy Adams.  She is simply sensational in her role as the hapless Gary the human's dear and long-suffering fiancee -- and she can also fix a car or an electrical system without breaking a nail!

I can't pay Ms. Adams a higher tribute than to say that she more than holds her own sharing a song with Miss Piggy.  Only the most charismatic and adept performers can accomplish that, given the porcine performer's prodigious scene-stealing prowess!

And like the very best family movies, this one will bring a tear (or two or three) to the eyes of generations who have grown up with these endearing felt creations.

I have deducted one star only because this DVD has only one bonus feature, a "Blooper Reel" that runs a scant ten minutes or so.

I'm sorry, but there is simply no excuse for the omission of the director's commentary and making-of featurette that appear in the Blu-Ray edition, and the Disney Company seems not to have paid any attention to the movie's essential message: that an attempt to try and do something worthwhile in the company of old and dear friends trumps any venal grab for money or power.

So forty lashes with a wet noodle for Disney execs -- and kudos and props and a hearty welcome back for the Frog, Pig, Bear, Daredevil, Drummer, Chickens, Chef, and all their colleagues and collaborators here.