I haven't read the book, so I had no idea what to expect. I heard people singing its praises, so I thought I'd watch it. It looked a little corny, so I was already braced for that. It's not really corny, it's just really boring. I don't have anything against British cinema or period set movies, but this one just went on and on and left me wondering where it was going.

The storyline is rushed, which wouldn't be that bad if they didn't also rush the character development. The movie just presents the girls as growing up into pretty teenagers that get sent to a performance academy due to financial need, this being paid by one of the elder sister's, Sylvia (Emilia Fox), tenants.

From there, you just get a feeling of entitlement from the girls. It's like watching a 30's set version of My Super Sweet Sixteen. Pauline (Emma Watson) soon gets a big head because she's pretty and it assures her roles in acting. Watson's acting is terrible. I love her in Harry Potter, probably because I'm so used to seeing her as Hermione, but even in that role I think she's a pretty mediocre actress. Ballet Shoes gave her a chance to shine on her own light, but she looks too old for the role and makes her character come off like a drama queen.

Posy (Yasmin Paige)is supposed to be gifted in ballet, hence the title, but other than that, we don't really see her dance well. Furthermore, it's not really clear why it should be titled Ballet Shoes because her dancing is a pretty minor thing in the plotline. It only makes her come off as a spoiled brat and only diverts the attention from golden-girl Watson for a mere seconds.

Speaking of temporary attention detractor, this brings me to Petrova (Lucy Boynton), who the movie treats just like the author did when picking her name. She moans a little bit about hating performance and wanting to be a pilot. The audience is supposed to feel sorry for this character but instead it just feels like a breath of fresh air to have a character not being painted as beautiful and talented in this movie. I didn't particularly like her more than the other orphans, but it was less boring to watch her struggle where she didn't belong than having to watch Watson's character whine because she was in an early film.

Overall, the movie version of Ballet Shoes butchers any meaning in the story by using cheap techniques like the apparently made-up romance between adult characters and constantly trying to make the audience feel sorry for the orphans. The former fails simply because they were adopted when they were babies by loving people, had the good fortune to find some random lady to pay for an education, where blessed with good looks and are considered talented enough to earn a living. They also kept reminding us they were poor, which I felt hard to sympathize with seeing as they still had new-looking clothes to wear and lived in a house bigger than mine.

Based on the reviews I've read, this movie is no good unless you have the lingering memory of the book. I have not read the book, so I only have the lingering memory of frequently checking how much time was left of the movie.