I started viewing this movie expecting to see a story with at least some degree of faith, hope and redemption.  Boy, was I sorely disappointed.  I'm not sure what the faith perspective of the positive reviewers is, but as a Christian, I can say with certainty that there is nothing Christian about this film, other than pointing out the fallen nature of this world, which is more than adequately portrayed in all of the filth that has spewed out of Lady Hollywood's mouth for decades.

Elmer Gantry starts off this film as a boozing, womanizing, brawling, lying, conniving con man.  And what is he at the end of the film?  You guessed it--all of the above, with a little notoriety sprinkled on top for being a popular big tent revivalist.

Sure, Elmer is a charismatic guy, but charisma is only valuable when placed into the service of virtue.  And virtuous Elmer ain't.  He says and does whatever it takes to reach whatever fleshly goal he seeks at the moment, using and discarding others (particularly women) at almost breakneck speed.

And what's the deal with Sister Sharon?  At first she recognized Elmer for what he was, yet in a moment of weakness succumbed to his wiles, and ended up in flames while he walked off to continue his life of debauchery. (As an aside, as one of the film characters pointed out, Scripture does seem to circumscribe the role of women in speaking and leading in church gatherings, but that's another story.)

There is nothing hopeful or uplifting about this film.  There is heavy drinking, sexual imagery and innuendo, profanity, and more.  In some ways, the most "moral" character is the journalist who covers the revival story.  Yet he is an admitted agnostic, and in some ways it's hard to blame him if the only professing Christians he has seen are the losers like Elmer and Sharon whose private lives belie everything they profess in public.

If you watch this film looking for a realistic portrayal of Christianity, you won't get that.  There are many who claim the name of Christ but are far from Him.  Calling yourself a Christian and going to religious meetings doesn't make you one any more than calling yourself a Ford and going to garages makes you an automobile.

Unfortunately, there seem to be very few cinematic portrayals of genuine Christian faith (Alex Kendrick's films probably come closest).  If you're seeking spiritual truth, I'd skip the film and just go pick up a New Testament.  Ask God to remove your blinders as you read it.  Yes, we're all sinners by nature, but the good news is we don't have to stay that way.  The real Jesus of history died and rose again to save us from the penalty and power of sin, not just in the world to come, but in this life as well.  Unfortunately, Elmer never grasped this truth at all, and if Sister Sharon once did, she lost hold of it.

God bless you.