lets see where to begin, First off let me state that this movie is one of the greatest zombie movies ever made. But the DVD definatly could have been much better.They didnt even get the description on the back of the box right. Its a medical supply not an army surplus. Not to mention that if something isnt broken why would you try and fix it. 
By this statement I mean that the movie was great the way that it was, why would you need to go back and change and leave things out. example: The part when the gang is riding around in the car, going to the cemetary. They play a song there, BUT its not the original song, its supposed to be The Damned, and its not. They took that song out and put another one in its place. Then they turned it up so loud that you can barely hear what the people are saying. The laugh at the beginning of the song is the same, however the rest is not.
 Also, after tina goes and find freddie and the rest of the group meets up at the warehouse in the original they are playing the tall boys song over them talking and you cant really hear all their dialouge, in the dvd version first off the song isnt even in there, (they took music and tried to make it sound like the song minus the lyrics, but it didnt fool anyone) also you can hear everything that they say to each other in the warehouse, and the dialouge at that part isnt exactly the best ever. 
Then theres the part with the zombie telling the to "send more cops" the dvd does a very poor job of overdubbing the voice, why did it need to be fix it was perfect before. 
And last, one of the best music scenes in the movie, the part when burt goes to the creamatorium, there is a really awesome song playing then that fits the scene perfectly. In the DVD, it was decided to take out the song, and now there is silence, and it doesnt compliment the scene very much. 
As i said before the movie, (plot, characters, music) is very cool. And the DVD could have been much much better. I would take the 18 year old movie over the poorly made DVD anyday. The best thing about this being on DVD is that the picture is much better, but i would rather have the blurry video tape picture and have all the music and original dialouge, then have something that was remade.