I won't critique the technical merits of this film, and by technical I mean camera work, cinematography, sound. In that regard it's a professional piece of work; but esthetically speaking, it's a piece of garbage with barely more artistic value than a porn film. In fact, I've seen porn films with more esthetic value than this. Much more.

If you're going to do a movie about psychotics and sadists wreaking havoc on innocent people, make the victims sympathetic in some fashion. Let's have some character development! If your psychotics and sadists are going to win at the end of the day, fine, but let me sympathize with them on some tiny level. How about some back story? How about some character development, for Christ's sake?

Our victims here are a couple of druggies on the loose with God only knows what purpose or intentions, and a seemingly dysfunctional family with absolutely zero  charm or personality. Throw in a couple of sadistic cops who seem to have a thing for each other (not that there's anything wrong with that), and who entertain themselves by terrorizing passing motorists and playing good cop bad/cop and other puerile psychological games. When the sick cops are done playing and leave the scene of their terror, the dysfunctional wife and female druggie get together for a beer and some chuckles on the side of the road while the dysfunctional father-figure whines softly and ineptly about reporting the incident. Gee that's drama for you.

There is one redeeming character in all of this, but unfortunately she is nothing but a cliche. A young girl, part of the dysfunctional family out on the road in the boonies, very sweet and very innocent, and of course very gifted, maybe even psychic. Ooooh! Chills! She sees things other people don't see. She knows things other people don't know. She's a single strand of goodness in a  tangled trainwreck of stupidity, dullness, timidity, and psychopathic evil. We've seen her a million times, only this time she doesn't even seem too worked up about her dead family members. She's a cool, distant, worn-out cliche.

SPOILERS:

Meanwhile back at the station, two bad-ass FBI agents are conducting an investigation with the not so helpful local authorities. Scene after scene of smart-assed dialogue, silly cliched stand-offs with plenty of hands-on-hips blinking and grinning, barely contained derision, open mockery, and stupid jokes. You've seen every smirk a thousand times. The FBI agents are the only characters who will draw the interest of the viewer, and you are tricked into getting into their corner right from the start, thanks to the complete absence of anything interesting or meritorious from the rest of the cast. And this turns out to be a trick which will get you nothing and will only piss you off, that is unless you actually enjoy cheering for the deranged psychos of the world, in which case this movie will be a rare treat for you. Enjoy.