If you want to see a "seat of your pants thriller" and a "great 'war' film"...go somewhere else.

This movie was bad from the begining.  I am a Navy EOD Tech.  This was supposed to be our "Top Gun" for the EOD Community.  All this did was paint EOD as a bunch of wild cowboys.  Now, I'll spare you the inter-service jabbing I'd normally give my breathern in the Army...but this movie was REALLY REALLY BAD!!!

Any number of stunts the character did in the movie would've seen him sent home rather quickly.  Speaking on the "EOD/military technical aspect" of the film...it blew chuncks.  Hard.
As a movie...it still blew.  There were a number of scenes that should've been on the cutting room floor, as they didn't flow or even need to be in the film.  Example - a couple of scenes with the kid selling pirate DVDs.  The sniper scene...LOL...horrible.  The scene was there to have the two team members finally "bond" because up until then they'd been butting heads.  That scene could've been shot is a number of different scenarios and been much shorter.  I couldn't concentrate on the "male bonding" as I was laughing so hard from the Iraqi sniper killing (in a rather rapid rate) moving targets, then couldn't hit the EOD team for the rest of the day as the EOD team was stationary.  P.S.  EOD does in fact use the Barrett, but I'm not sure how much Army EOD spends on the weapon system and is well versed in calling windage and setting dopes.  Few of us in the Navy know how.

I won't bore you with the NUMEROUS military/EOD errors in the film...but it's A LOT!!!!!! (this is soooo hard not writing them all down)

This movie was a bore as well.  I'm not sure why there's so much hype for it being a "seat of your pants thrill ride".  It's not.  The only good thing about the movie are the following:
-The close up of the car rust being displaced by the blast wave was cool.  Great cinematography for THAT shot.
-The movie is not preachy as almost ALL current films about Iraq are.  The film is neither pro-war or anti-war.

Well....that's about it.  Borrow it from a friend.  Don't waste your money buying the film and don't waste your time renting or downloading off the internet....