the net has opened up a whole new world for young independent artists and giving lots of people room to breath away from the big movie and tv control freaks. I have seen 4 of the 5 that i found, and this was the worst, bad period props...they had two good veterans (actor-the evil sociopathic dr. and actress-played the backwoods healer)who did as best they could with the script and helped the new kids when they shared a scene.
  keep writin kid just don't let em give you the bum's rush and take a minite to consider the times you are shooting for...you'll get there.
  of the other three that i saw on netflix; there were some very good parts if a little spotty sometimes. the voice over was awful. some of the art was very well done and the makeup wasn't bad on the live ones.
  they did stupid things that will glare out at any who know much about the civil war era or even what it was really like to live back then.  the pistols were so shiny silver (like the toys given children in the 50's) any woodsman or fighting man of any kind would have seen the glint good enough to kill you before you knew you were dead.  and it's just plain stupid the way they sometimes pointed thier guns at each other (while making all sorts of noise talking and emoting for thier portfolio clips...}and not fighting. You NEVER point a gun at someone, loaded or not unless you are going to use it. boys back then learned to shoot almost as soon as they could hold a weapon and their daddys would have taken it away and knocked the kid flat,there was no room for carelessness.
  I suppose my main b*tch is that children watch a lot of tv a lot like horror and scifi; if there are guns; gun handling NEEDS to be accurate.
  the costumes were down right wrong in some cases. the so called southern soldier had no southern accent nor did any of his sothern friends. they should have made him a northener at least. none of the cookware was darkened by flame and hard use, and no frontier settler would ever just drop a torch in the tall dead grass and run off. their neighbors would have linched them. all these things kept popin me back out of the story.
  At least they found a sturdy horse like the farmers prized.
  the lead did give a credible battle cry when he rallied his troops
  dispite all of that they did give it a try and I doubt may of the actors have been off a college or comunity stage before...and i believe this movie company will be a power some day if they can tough it out. It looks like several small groups around the same flag. It is good to see some of the veteran old guard lending thier help. they certainly didn't get paid.