The 2005 film Tideland opens with that film's director Terry Gilliam informing the audience that some of them will hate it, but some will love it. That may have been a smart choice because I don't think I would have been prepared for what I saw without that disclaimer. Lars von Trier, director of Antichrist, is too relentless to include any such warning, but if he had, it would have been more fitting to say, "Probably nobody should watch this. It's going to give you PTSD."

The film opens beautifully in a black-and-white sex scene between the film's two principal characters, known simply as He and She. It is the only good and happy part of this film, so you better enjoy it, because before you know what hit you, a toddler falls out of a window to his death. After She spends months in the hospital, enduring the crippling grief over the loss of her child, He, being a psychiatrist, finally decides that no progress is being made and he must take her healing into his own hands.

This is a bad decision presumably motivated by his feelings of jealousy. Ultimately, He decides they must travel to their holiday cabin in the woods to confront her depression. What ensues are some bizarre incidents of psychological torture and ultra-violence, which the film's press releases attribute to "nature." Is it the inherent evil of our very human characters? Or is it possible that there is some sort of evil presence in the cabin? These questions are left appropriately abstract and further earn this film more horror credits.

And yes, this is a horror film. Von Trier claims that he failed in trying to make a horror film, but he gives himself too little credit. It may be the most genre-defying genre picture I've ever seen, and that is what truly elevates it.

Some have accused this film of being misogynistic. That very well may be true. I prefer to believe that it is more about the corruptibility of humans as a result of pervasive social stigmas. We are crafted by the evil which surrounds and envelopes us.

To put it mildly, Antichrist is rough stuff, and is going to be talked about by serious cinephiles for some time to come. Its cruelty transcends sensitivity, and its ugliness subverts beauty. To witness the complexity of the relationship between He and She, and the performances that generate this complexity is worth the price of admission alone.

My disclaimer? I will never recommend this movie to someone who is not curious about seeing it already. After watching Antichrist, I honestly felt rattled for the next few days, and I didn't truly know how to feel about it. In hindsight, I'm glad I saw it. This is an unpleasantly powerful film.