Surely, almost everyone has seen the Walter Matthau-Tatum O'Neal version of "Bad News Bears."  It was such a good movie because it essentially brought the "Little Rascals" up to speed by introducing vulgar language and behavior into the context of screen-childhood.  The kids smoked, cussed, talked about sex, etc.:  that's what pre-pubescent kids do.  Matthau was the perfect degenerate:  a aged pool boy alcoholic who simply wanted to make a little more money for booze by "coaching" a group of athletically incompetent kids.  But what he also captured, as the movie apparently was designed to, was the gradual change from being a completely out of it loser - an anonymous nothing waiting for death in Southern California - to an increasingly enlightened man, with an renewed sense of the possibilities of life, by rediscovering his humanity through the kids.  The movie's final - and finest - moment is when Buttermaker (Matthau) realized he doesn't want to be a jock dad, yelling at kids to satisfy his own sense of emptiness.  In fact, by degrees, from the time he gets Amanda (Tatum O'Neal), his daughter from a broken marriage and an ace pitcher, to play for the Bears, Buttermaker is already on the road to redemption.  The movie is so interesting because it is in effect about Buttermaker's journey back from savagery to civilization.

  Not so this pathetic attempt to ... to ... to do I don't know what.  Billy Bob Thornton, who never was and probably never will be able to convey humanity, is a poor choice for Buttermaker.  Apparently the producers wanted an alcoholic loser-type.  BBT is good at that:  cf. "Bad Santa."  But what he isn't good at is the transition, the journey from beast to human.  In fact, the crucial moment, when Buttermaker sees the jock dad berating and even slapping his own son, is all but lost.  Apparently, we're supposed to laugh more at BBT's portrayal of a loser than understand that people can actually come back from such self-inflicted hells as Buttermaker's.  Indeed, Buttermaker's only a loser because he doesn't believe in himself.  At the end of this movie, we expect BBT to fall right off the wagon and head back to the Cabo-of-his-mind.

  This whole remake is transparently that and can't hold a candle to the original, most especially because the message is lost.  BBT again reprises "bad Santa."  The kid-cast all seem to have seen the original about 100 times each:  they try really hard to imitate their models - and wind up depriving themselves of believability.  (Lupus's own struggle is all but lost in one catch, for which there is no real preface.)  The girl who plays Amanda is at least seventeen years old and as wooden an actress as I've ever seen.  And where is the cigarette-smoking, hell raising "Kelly Leak?"  The original was a great character:  an angry bat, riding a Honda, right out of the suburban hell and shopping mall wastelands of southern California of the '60s and '70s.  The actor who played him got it just right.  The kid who plays him in this movie is no "Kelly Leak":  he's cardboard.

  For these remakes, we must ask, why?  This does nothing whatsoever for anybody:  actors, audience, art.  It was undoubtedly extraordinarily cheap to produce and it traded on its great antecedent.  Anyway, this is total crap, top to bottom, left to right, up and down.  Don't rent it!  Rent the original.  It's far better.