I'll admit that when I saw this film for the first time, I was a bit underwhelmed.  But I simply don't understand all the bitterness, anger and vitriol being directed at it in these reviews.  I have gone back and watched the film again and I have to say that it actually grows on you. I simply don't believe that it is the stinking pile of poo that most of the reviewers claim it is.  "Ocean's 12" is patently inferior to "Ocean's 11", that is true.  But what I think is really going on here is: people came with high expectations that could never be fulfilled; the tone of the film is darker and more desperate than the first; the subplots and the twists are confusing compared with the rather linear mission of the first film and the offscreen publicity surrounding the shoot lends people to believe that the stars were having too much fun at everyone else's expense.  The anger is that of people who have been left out of an in-joke or a party they don't get to attend.

The Julia as Julia subplot was rather gutsy - but it takes you out of the picture.  I give them points for trying something ballsy that ultimately didn't serve the interests of the film (even though it gave Matt Damon some of his funniest moments).  It seems like a "Hail Mary" pass conjured up at the last minue to salvage a script with problems.  Furthermore, it focuses you on Julia Roberts, the celebrity, and the effect of her real-life pregnancy on her appearance (and let's be frank - she's looked a lot better in other films).

The Night Fox subplot complicated things a lot - even though Vincent Cassel did a good job with his role.  But, it felt overly contrived and reeked of the "Pink Panther" movies of the 60s. Certain characters were left out almost entirely - especially Bernie Mac.  The end still doesn't add up.  Was the plan improvised at the last minute or was the entire thing as intricately thought out as the Belagio heist?  To work as well as it did, it would have to have been, but you're left thinking that it was screwed up.  And if that's the case, what was the original plan? Even after a couple viewings it is still confusing.  The plot of the entire last two thirds of the film is as contorted and convoluted as the gyrations of the Night Fox trying to elude the laser beams in the museum.

On the plus side, I still found it enjoyable for what it was.  I don't come to a film like this and expect to see great art.  It was entertaining, the performances were good for the most part and even if it didn't attain the level of the first film it doesn't deserve that rancor that has been directed at it.  I still have hopes for "Ocean's 13" and from what I've read, the cast and director are looking to redeem themselves after this one. I just happen to disagree on the level of atonement that is required.