Those with large-screen HDTVs have something of a dilemma here. The Blu-ray version is sharper and more beautiful to look at than the DVD, but it is marred by excessively large and intrusive subtitling for the hearing-impaired. Subtitling is a necessary evil for those of us who do not have a fluent understanding of French, but those of us with hearing do not need to have every sound effect explicated, nor English subtitles for those bits of this film that are spoken in English. Although the subtitling is larger than it needs to be, I would still recommend the Blu-ray version for those who are not bothered by what amounts to closed-captioning rather than standard subtitling. You're also in luck if you can read Spanish, for which standard subtitles are available.

My aggravation with the Blu-ray subtitling led me to do some research, including the reviews here at Amazon; and I found contradictory and ambiguous remarks regarding the subtitling available on the DVD, which is entirely understandable because the DVD itself is confusing in this regard. To resolve the matter, I rented a copy of the DVD; and the following are my findings, which I hope will clear this up for customers:

If you simply play the movie on DVD without going through subtitle setup, you will see normal English subtitles; however, if you go through setup, you will see only a choice between Spanish and English SDH (or "Off"); and if you choose English SDH, you are stuck with the extraneous and distracting information on screen. The main reason that I am writing this footnote of a review is to say that, in spite of the labeling on the package, and in spite of the explicit choices on the Setup Menu, there are--on the DVD only--*four* subtitle options; to access them you simply have to use the subtitle button on your remote control while the disc is playing. There you will find that you can choose "English," "Spanish," "English," or "Off." That's right: there are two labeled "English" without differentiation, except for one being numbered (on my player, anyway) #1, and the other #3. On my player #1 was English SDH; and #3 was standard English subtitles.

Please understand that I have nothing against providing English for the Hearing Impaired, and the DVD shows that this can be done without rattling the rest of us; I do not know what the constraints were on the Blu-ray that prevented this sensible approach, nor why First Look Pictures chose to hide the standard-English option on the DVD.

One of the things that was unclear to me in going through the reviews was whether or not one needed to buy the special 2-disc edition in order to get the standard English subtitles. Based upon the fact that my rental disc does not say Disc 1 on it, I assume that it is not from the 2-disc set; furthermore, some of the reviews here and elsewhere have indicated that Disc 1 of the 2-disc set is identical to the single-disc edition. I cannot speak for the Steelbook edition, but I would be surprised if the standard-English-subtitle feature had been removed, which I assume would have been extra effort for Steelbook. Thus, I believe that only the Blu-ray edition suffers from this particular flaw, leaving prospective buyers with the choice of a clearer but more cluttered image on Blu-ray, or a fuzzier but less distracting image on the DVD.

Oh, yes, the movie: I found this collection of short films charming, often whimsical, and sometimes wise; and the Paris scenery ain't bad, either. If I were reviewing the DVD, I would give it four stars, but have docked the Blu-ray a star for its clumsy production.