To be honest, I didn't know what to expect when I popped The Black Cauldron: 25th Anniversary Edition into my DVD player. Sure, I've heard of it, but all I really knew is that it came from Disney's "Dark Era" (like The Great Mouse Detective), and that it takes place in a Tolkienesque world. And yes, The Black Cauldron is bold and different. This is not your average Disney fare.

The story revolves around a young boy named Taran, an assistant pig keeper who dreams of one day becoming a hero. Of course, his daydreaming usually ends up getting him into trouble, like losing his pig, Hen Wen, to the Horned King (who looks like Skeletor's more competent older brother). Why would your-paint-by the-numbers Evil Overlord want a pig? Well, it turns out this pig is magic, and can tell the future and where things are. And since the Horned King is looking for the Black Cauldron, a magical object that will give him an army of undead walking skeletons, he wants said pig. So Taran goes on an epic quest to save his pig and destroy the Black Cauldron. Along the way, he is joined by a minstrel named Fflewddur Fflam, a princess named Eilonwy (apparently the Disney Princesses line completely forgot about her, just like everyone else), and a thing named Gurgi that looks like an Ewok and talks like Donald Duck. Through the course of their journey they encounter witches, Fair Folk, and other mystical creatures. Eventually, they have to face the Horned King himself.

First off, I was really surprised to discover there was another Disney Princess I had never heard of, especially since this one is much closer in age to the Disney Princess line's target market. The next thing that stood out is how dark, violent and scary this movie is: its seems more like something up Ralph Bakshi's alley than Disney's. This may explain why it was a renowned flop; people have certain expectations for Disney films: It will have action and suspense, an exciting climax, and some patches of darkness, but the overall tone of the film is expected to be light. The Black Cauldron just isn't that kind of movie; it's still a children's movie, but it is definitely more geared for older kids.

Another problem is that darker doesn't automatically equal better. In this case, the movie has a definite lack of enjoyable characters. Taran himself is a boring, bland, selfish, unlikable character who still manages to remind me too much of Arthur/Wart from The Sword in the Stone. Most of the characters are bland; those that aren't are stereotypes; and many are both. The only character with any personality is Gurgi, and he's the comic relief!

Even when a Disney film suffers from bland heroes (I'm looking at you, Herc), a good villain can save the movie. They may be evil, but Gaston, Hades and Jafar are all have some sort of lightness to them, like you know you can't take them too seriously. The Horned King is nothing like that. He is dark, evil, quite, and just plain damn scary. In half of his scenes you can't even see his face. As a result you never feel a connection to him, and it leaves him feeling like just a clich&eacute;d, humorless villain. Even Judge Frollo, who was played straight and shown to have his own weaknesses to overcome, was compelling! The Horned King, not so.

Its weak characters aside, The Black Cauldron does still manage to be exciting. I was expecting relatively mediocre animation, as in The Great Mouse Detective, but I was absolutely blown away by the visuals. The animation in this movie is some of the best I've ever seen, most notably a scene where Hen Wen is captured by dragons. The transfer on this particular DVD is brilliant, providing a nice full picture, surprisingly in CinemaScope (2.35:1 widescreen as opposed to most animated films that are 1.85:1 widescreen). The DVD also has both French and Spanish language tracks and subtitles and Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. Most of the special features are carried over from the previous release: "Trick or Treat" (an entertaining Donald Duck cartoon), "The Quest for the Black Cauldron" trivia game and a still frame gallery. The only new features on this disc are "The Witches' Challenge" game, which is essentially a rather dull Black Cauldron point-and-click riddle game, reminiscent of Dora the Explorer, and a deleted scene. For those hoping for the infamous "man being dissolved by mist" scene that was cut from the film for a better rating, prepare to be disappointed: the deleted scene in question here is an alternate, more boring version of when the gang meets the Fair Folk, and it's understandable why it was cut, as it would've definitely slowed the movie down. It's about ten minutes long and is told through storyboards and pencil tests. The rest of the DVD is filled out with previews for upcoming releases, and promos for DisneyFile Digital Copy and Disney Blu-ray (basically the Sprouse brothers explaining why Blu-ray is "suite". Their word, not mine).

It's really quite a shame. Here we are, given a decent movie with a good transfer and practically no special features. This seems to be the case more and more often, as of late. Considering the troubled production this movie had, we should've at least had a retrospective documentary or a commentary. If you're like me and care about special features, I'd wait until the inevitable Blu-ray release several years down the road, though seeing how poorly Disney treats this film, I wouldn't be surprised if we get no special features there as well.

Overall, The Black Cauldron is a decent fantasy movie, and an interesting experiment on the part of the Disney animation studio. Considering what a rarity it is--a dark Disney fantasy--it certainly deserves at least a rental, especially if you've never seen it before.