I'm 20 years old and I wasn't into Astro Boy until 3 years ago. I watched most of the 60s series, all of the 80s, and all of the 2003-2004 series. I just love the concept behind Astro Boy and his innocent character so I went to see this film in cinemas with much anticipation. What I found made me very disappointed.

1. The core plot stays true to the original series: Toby dies and his father Dr. Tenma builds a robot to replace his son. I was glad about that.

2. The plot was boring, predictable, and overused. There were a few moments that pulled at my sympathy like Astro's face when Dr. Tenma rejected him, or Dr. Tenma's struggle to grasp that it was his lack of parental stamina that caused his son to die.

3. The characters were stripped of originality. It seemed this movie tried to mature Astro above his "age" (or intended audience age). Dr. Tenma's roll was marginalized and he appeared at all those "just at the right moment" phases like making stage entrances when I was wondering, "where did he come from?" The end scene where Astro is revived is one of those. The president was pathetic and they made him out to be stupid. I guess that was supposed to be funny but it made the film harder to watch. Dr. Elephan (sp?) was also shoved to the back. Instead they brought in several new characters? I guess that was supposed to appeal to children too.

4. I'm tired of children's films being saturated with political undertones. This movie hardly attempted to hide the undertones and I felt that, regardless of my political stance, I wouldn't want my child watching this because of the undertones. This was the most disappointing part: to turn Astro Boy into an excuse to sell a point of view. How insulting. How belittling of the series.

The animation was well done for the most part, the action scenes were pretty good, and the special effects I thought were flashy and exciting. If you watch this movie mentally prepared for the defects, it's not so bad. I bought it purely because I'm an Astro Boy memorabelia collector.