First off I'm a huge Lem fan and Solaris is the one book I had read four times and will probably read again. I wasn't all too convinced by Tarkovskis adaption which is a great piece of cinematic art but doesn't deliver what the book was about in its core. Lem wasn't happy with the movie neither. This new adaption he accepted more easily, but not wholeheartly.

To me, there's one specific thing about Lem's work that was not present in Soderbergh's adaption. Sure, one thing is a book, the other is a movie, there shouldn't be much of a comparison, but I was SO let down by the fact that everything else was taken into the movie but NOT the main theme, which was the question of communications, be it with human or alien beings.

In Solaris, people are trying to solve one huge problem. They found this planet that is moving between two suns which is not a seldom thing. But this one isn't behaving correctly: it should only be a matter of time untill the planet gets blown away by one of the suns due to gravitation rules. This one is different. The problem is that this planet might mean that one of the most important physical laws could turn out to be wrong, absolutly wrong. It would be like finding evidence nowadays that our planet in fact IS flat. This would trigger so many questions, it would turn it all upside down. Countless universities are trying to find out if science had been COMPLETLY WRONG, students are doing studies on the subject. So that is the reason why astronauts were sent up there to begin with. In the movie, they are doing "energy research". Is this a detail? Hell no it ain't.

In the book, the scientists have absolutly no explanation on anything, they have been doing experiments during the last fifty years or so but they could not repeat one single experiment and get the same result. Whatever they did, the ocean planet SOLARIS never ever behaved in a way that could even give an idea of what this planet is all about. Now the story begins with the arrival of Kelvin. His mission is not only to look after the astronauts but also to make one huge decision: should the whole Solaris project be stopped due to huge costs and no useful results or should they go on and keep looking for clues? It is in Kelvins hands to make this decision. And this also is an important point of the story. Science had never found an explanation, they could only file the side effects of the planet. All they could do was watch and be dazzled, but there was no way to influence or trigger something willingly. Sometimes the ocean did not react on an experiment, sometimes it did, but never twice the same way. And while they are looking for explanations they get these visitors who don't know themselves what it all is about. They even quesionize why they hadn't questionized their being there... on a space station light years away from home. Even the visitors do not have an explanation. They can only watch, and if their host is leaving their field of view they freak out. So they HAVE to see their hosts. In the end the scientists are the ones being researched and observed. For what reason they don't know.

Lem mostly is giving you a special Sci-Fi scenario in which something ALWAYS become clear: these are humans. But Solaris is a place where there is not one single human motive. It is not a place for humans, it has nothing human to it, it goes beyond any possible human explanation, just like a cat would never understand that art and movies exist. Nevertheless, humans are using their human brain to solve a totally un-human thing by asking human questions. Science means asking questions. But every question has the answer already, be it fully or partly. If you are researching the biohazard level of some specific water the result will be restricted due to your restricted thinking pattern. If humans wouldn't have found out that biohazard exists they would have been looking for a totally different thing and found a satisfying answer whatsoever. Lem always successfully shows that in science there are human thinkers, no gods. The problem human people have between each other is absolutly the same the scientists have with Solaris, and therefore that science has, fundamentally. In the book, there are people interacting with each other and the planet. In both cases the communication fails for exactly the same reason, although one is an alien ocean planet, the other is a human.

So in Lem's work one point was to show the impossibility NOT to communicate. There cannot be NO Communication but missunderstood communications due to lack of the possibility to fully identify with and understand the other.

This film is not a good adaption. But it's an interesting love story taking place in space. It's just not Solaris and that is not so bad. If only Soderbergh wouldn't be this convinced by having adapted the original material. Looks like he didn't understand the book by no chance.