I got this DVD as a gift and after reading the back I came to the conclusion that it was nothing but mindless violence with an unoriginal plot. Needless to say I went in not expecting much. Although it wasn't scary it still wasn't a complete waste of time. The acting, while not extraordinary, is still believable. Although there is a lot of cliche to this movie. For instance, every horror movie always has that one person who defies good logic and chases whatever the movie is about, this has a guy like that. There's also always the guy who knows something about it and warns his friends/colleagues but they refuse to listen, this has a guy like that. Despite all of that though this is a pretty original movie, not necessarily good, but not bad.

The plot centers around Alex. He's a scientist who is called upon to venture to the desert despite his hatred for field-work. Skip forward about 15-20 minutes the group comes across some bones stripped of flesh. They recall hearing that a few prospectors went missing and come to the conclusion that these bones belong to at least one of them. The 'monster' in this is quite eery since you never get an extremely good look at him. Alex soon finds out what has killed the prospectors when he wakes up to find the 'monster' staring him dead in the face. The movie then wanders for a bit having the group come across another set of bones and an interesting run-in with some sand flies that resemble ants. They are then led to the creatures lair and chaos ensues, I use that term lightly by the way.

Overall this movie isn't ground-breaking by any means, just your typical run-of-the-mill horror movie that ceases to scare you in the least. Don't go into this movie thinking you're going to see some good special effects or gore, there isn't any. The bones stripped of flesh I mentioned earlier consists of red bones. The goriest part is when two members of the group are swarmed with the sand flies which eat their flesh, and even that's not enough to scare you. The reason this movie got three stars is because of Scott Bairstow and Rachel Shelley. These two are the only ones holding together this less than stellar plot.