Mess with sombody else's wife and it could cause some problems. Then, one should beware of Greeks bearing gifts.

 It's become an axiom that films have to do killer numbers in their first three weeks or they are considered less-than-successful. Well, the reviews weren't real kind to this movie, and maybe the weak initial receipts were the reason. In truth, it wasn't that bad. It is actually a fairly entertaining version (cf the original 'Helen of Troy')of this story. As befits the presentation of an epic, the director made good use of technology (there actually seem to be thousands of ships and thousands of soldiers), and the battle scenes were both realistic and interesting. Those involving only two combatants were particularly impressive due to some fine choreography. Yet, this film suffered from an unbalanced approach with an unnecessary emphasis on sentimentality overall and an inattention to the more important themes from Homer's original epic. It could have easily been re-named "Achilles," so much of the movie revolved around his character rather than the destruction of the ancient city. Pitt did an acceptable, if a bit too rigid, job of playing that role but at times hurt his own performance when he couldn't seem to decide whether he should speak aristocratic English or American vernacular. The adaptation also could have been more genuine. After all, if it is decided that Achilles is going to take center stage, then there should at least be a reference or an explanation concerning his vulnerable heel. Similarly, the most telling aspect of the original tale, the events surrounding the Trojan Horse, were treated here almost as a necessary afterthought. The final words of the narrator merely reinforced that this movie was less about Troy than a few of the more important warriors, when he said, 'Troy is gone, but those names will be remembered.' Good supporting performances from Peter O'toole and Brian Cox overcame some of its weaknesses, but this could have been a better movie. Having said that, it was more enjoyable than critics led me to expect.