I actually bought this dvd because one of the guest stars is Joni Mitchell. Joni and Cass were great friends; in fact the character Estrella in Joni's song "Ladies of the Canyon" is based on Cass Elliot. There is also a well-know B&W photo of the two of them, face-to-face and smiliing, obviously reveling in each other's company. So it's distressing to have to acknowledge that the show itself is so lame. I mean, Buddy Hackett?  The musical sequences are wonderful, and there are moments when the Cass' true, irreverent, and quite genuinely funny spirt shines through. But overall it's a mish-mash of all that was wrong with late 60's TV. I mean, Buddy Hackett?

There are a couple of comedy sketches (one with Buddy Hackett and one with Martin Landau and Barbara Bain - riding the crest of their "Mission Impossible" fame no doubt). Neither one of these sketches quite holds together; they ALMOST make it, but not quite. In one, Cass is a patient in a hospital waiting room, talking to Buddy Hackett, a fellow patient. There is great potential for something wonderfully human in this one: warmth, poignancy, human connection. What does it in(for me at least) is the way Cass uses her cane at the end of the sketch (I won't reveal more for fear of spoiling the ending). Clearly a  little coaching here would have helped. The sketch with Martin Landau and Barbara Bain also falls a little flat; Barbara Bain tries to play against type as a sort of frumpy, middle-aged  Brooklyn or Bronx (well, at least that's the conclusion I reached based on the accent she employed) lady attending a kind of dating service where she meets Martin Landau.

The absolute best parts of this show are the musical sequences. Cass is great - as always - as are Joni and the late and very great Mary Travers. (A show-biz aside: Joni, Mary, and Cass perform a segment where each sings a solo while the other two look on. Note the reactions of Joni and Mary as they watch, and respond, to each other's performance. Does one detect a tiny bit of jealousy on Mary's part? Just axin'!!)

Anyway, if you are a fan of Cass, Joni Mitchell, or Mary Travers you won't be disappointed in the music. Oh- lest I forget- John Sebastian also appears as a musical guest.

As for the rest...