Robert Smith's brief interview in the bonus materials, oddly, gave me one of the most memorable moments from this show. Paraphrasing as best I can: "We loved the coldness of Berlin for these two concerts. I love a city like Barcelona, too, maybe if we do a show like this with the Kiss Me record," he says. "But these albums have some very cold songs on them, and they made us feel like a young band again. I mean, with this set list, we open with a fast, angry song, and that's something young bands do."

People love these records, of course, and it's easy to imagine The Cure responding to suggestions to play these shows...but I was curious why they would. Once you see the songs all laid end to end, played so intensely and deftly, though, it makes more than perfect sense. It's emotionally exhausting hearing all these tunes together in the familiar order from listening to the records. The stage production is beautiful, and the sound is great, but they definitely make an effort to keep you focused on the music they're playing. Nothing overly distracts from that, and the playing is really solid. They never take any big improvisational leaps, but the songs feel fresh and energetic throughout.

Most dramatic of all is probably the title track from Pornography. In the half dozen or so times I have watched the show, that's been the most arresting tune most often. Capturing so much of the complexity of angst and alienation in an instrumental is such a great moment in their catalog, anyway, but they play it so fiercely that it draws you in, while simultaneously reminding you of phase after phase of mood after mood that you just wish you could shake. But you know there's so much honesty and validity in the art of the tune, even though the vibe keeps telling you to stay away, that you don't want any part of what it feels like is happening. People make fun of the love/hate relationship some people seem to have with their own emotions, but it's hard to imagine those few minutes of Pornography not feeling like a universal experience to anyone who happens to come across them.

Even 20. 25 years later, this show still has the same effect on me that those early Cure records did--you finish listening to it, and you feel all wrung out and compelled to get up and do something, but you can't figure out what you're in the mood to go do. Maybe that's the power of good music, or good art of any kind--leaves you feeling raw and all jacked up, but you can't always tell why.