...that's  what  I  think  this  movie  is  really  about.  Yeah,  freindship  is  there  too,  and  dreams  but  what  this  movie  is  really  about  is  losing  the  meaning  of  the  American  Dream,  I'll  get  to  that  later.
  "You  know  what  you  could  do  with  them  dishes.  And  if  you  aint  man  enough  to  do  it  for  yourself,  I'd  be  happy  to  ablidge...  I  really  would."
  That's  JOE  BUCK(  JON  VOIGHT  )from  Texas,  headed  for  New  York  City,  and  he  has  some  male  prostitution  thoughts  in  mind  before  long.  The  goofy  Texan  now  depends  on  this  unusual  management  to  survive  in  the  city.  He  doesn't  seem  to  care  if  it  is  legally  and  morally  wrong  as  long  as  he  fits  in.
  "I'M  WALKIN'  HERE,  I'M  WALKIN'  HERE!"
  That's  RICO(  RATSO  )RIZO(  DUSTIN  HOFFMAN  ).  He  has  been  the  longsuffering-greasy-conman-homeless-victim  of  New  York  City.  Before  long,  the  two  unlikes(  or  are  they?  )meet  and  Rico  cons  Joe.  But  after  that,  they  meet  again,  Rizo  shows  Joe  his  home  and  they  begin  "management".  Joe  scores  big  a  few  times  with  some  "gorgous  chicks",  he  says  that  they  are,  "beggin'  for  it,  payin'  for  it  too."  Other  things  don't  go  so  well  for  the  two  losers,  and  Rizo  wants  to  go  to  Florida.
  I  won't  give  away  any  major  elements  because  the  ending  is  actually  very  suprising,  especially  for  a  regular  viewer  that  is  used  to  mainstream  endings.  But  I  will  discuss  the  themes,  so  anyone  reading  that  hasn't  seen  the  film  could  have  a  good  idea  of  what  to  look  for  when  studying  the  film,  so  they  don't  "get  the  wrong  impression".
CONNECTION  BETWEEN  THE  CHARACTERS:  The  differences  between  the  characters  are  actually  what  make  them  so  similar.  Joe  is  tall  and  energetic,  which  is  perhaps  how  Rizo  would  like  to  be.  Rizo  is  short,  sick,  and  weak,  which  is  perhaps  how  Joe  feels  like  inside  during  many  different  times  at  New  York.  Now  here  is  a  retaliation  to  all  those  reviewers  that  put  this  film  down  for  having  supposedly  uneccesary  flashback/dream  type  scenes.  Well  the  flashback  scenes  are  mostly  self  explanitory,  as  one  reviewer  mentioned  Joe's  flashbacks  are  needed  to  show  exactly  why  he  left  Texas.  The  flashback/dream/fantasy  sequences  are  appropriate  to  indicate  the  connection  of  the  two  leads.  Joe  has  flashbacks  of  being  in  a  sunnier  home,  but  as  his  dream  scenes  appear,  we  see  that  "misfortune"  lead  him  out  of  Texas.  In  Joe's  dream,  after  we  see  all  of  the  trying  times,  Rizo  is  standing  there  in  the  crowd  with  an  evil  grin  on  his  face.  This  symbolizes  that  he  will  give  Joe  the  guided  tour  of  hell(  New  York  City  ).  But  its  not  all  doom  and  gloom.  Rizo  has  fantasies  of  finding  his  way  to  heaven(  Florida  ),  he  wants  to  be  popular,  warm,  and  most  of  all,  to  be  called  Rico.  What  will  become  of  Joe  and  Rizo's  quest  for  sunshine?  I  cannot  recommend  this  movie  enough.
MEMORABLE  SCENES:  I  loved  the  scene  where  Joe  was  flirting  with  that  passerby  chick  and  he  watches  her  go  into  her  home.  For  the  briefest  of  moments,  he  has  a  vison  that  he  goes  inside  with  her.
  Who  could  forget  that  taxi  scene  where  Rizo  screams  at  the  driver  because  he  was  walking  there.  This  scene  shows  what  outcasts  the  two  main  characters  are,  in  a  subtle  way.
  The  scene  where  Joe  scores  with  the  "gorgous  chick".  While  they  are  making  love,  Joe  repeatedly  rolls  over  the  TV  remote  switching  channels  at  random.  This  orchastrates  how  our  culture  has  changed  from  Joe's  youth(  cowboy  westerns  )into  overloads  of  images  on  TV  that  are  violent  and  mind-wasting(  not  that  I  don't  love  TV  and  movies  ).
THE  AMERICAN  DREAM:  What  I  think  this  movie  is  mostly  trying  to  show  us  is  what  the  American  dream  has  formed  into.  When  we  were  once  more  innocent  and  TV  was  easier  on  younger  kids  eyes,  westerns  instead  of  pornos  so  to  speak.  A  time  when  times  for  children  were  more  simple  and  peaceful.  I'm  not  trying  to  say  I  like  westerns  and  all  of  that  other  southern  crud,  just  that  it  is  better  than  the  lives  of  those  poor  kids  eating  crushed  coconuts  off  of  the  streets  of  New  York.  Joe  must  have  realized  once  he  got  to  the  big  city  that  he  had  it  much  better  off  than  he  thought  he  did  originally,  while  still  in  Texas.  The  American  dream  has  dissapeared  into  nothingness,  into  prostitution,  drugs,  murder,  crime,  and  TV  expliotation.  I  hope  that  I  made  my  opinion  of  the  message  of  the  movie  as  clear  as  possible  for  those  who  didn't  understand  the  film.  It  is  an  American  classic.
  It  is  great  when  the  music  fits  perfectly  with  the  movie,  and  in  this  case  it  does,  in  the  only  country  song  I  liked:  Everybody's  Talking  At  Me
Can't  hear  a  word  the're  saying
Only  the  echoes  of  my  mind
I  won't  let  you  leave  my  love  behind
People  stopping  staring
I  can't  see  their  faces
Only  the  shadows  of  their  eyes
I'm  going  where  the  sun  keeps  shining
through  the  pouring  rain
I'm  going  where  the  weather  suits  my  clothes
backing  off  of  the  northeast  wind
Sailing  on  summer  breeze
Skipping  over  the  ocean,  like  a  stone.