Like many of you reading this review (I'm guessing), I first heard/read about "The Believer" after seeing Ryan Gosling's outstanding, Oscar-nominated (and should have been -winning) performance in "Half Nelson" - because in reading more about that film, people often referred to this one as containing a performance by Gosling that's every bit as stellar.  Well, I'm here to say that those people were quite correct in that assessment.

And interestingly (to me anyway), I also found many parallels and echoes of "Half Nelson" in this film, which is notable because "The Believer" was made five years previous.  In "Half Nelson", teacher Dan Dunne (Gosling) tells his young students about the concept of dialectics: "It's two things that push against each other in opposite directions."

And in "The Believer," we see that concept amazingly personified by Gosling in the character of Daniel Balint.  After all, what could be more disjointedly dichotomous than a young Jewish skinhead who wears a t-shirt with a giant swastika on the front?  Also, Balint has a thoughtful but tremendously conflicted mind that seems to find peace in mindless violence.  A study of opposites, indeed...

I must admit that going in to this movie I was worried that such an extreme polarity in the lead role would make the character (or even the movie itself) a bit sensationalistic at best and cartoonish at worst.  Thankfully, the script by writer/director Henry Bean and Gosling's thoughtful acting choices prevent them from being either.

In fact, as I later learned in the DVD commentary, this character is actually based on a true person and a real historical event.  And the film is largely shot with such documentary-styled realism (the director and cinematographer cited gritty French film La Promesse as a big influence), that in some ways it might have been a little too real for its own good: apparently, a prominent rabbi at one screening objected so vehemently to this film's scenes of desecration that some say it's the reason such a critically-lauded movie never got picked up for theatrical distribution.

That said, even if this movie had played in many theaters, I doubt it would have appealed to a very large audience - there are many visually, viscerally intense moments that will have you squirming uncomfortably in your seat.  And the film is itself not without a few flaws.

Still, according to the director in a 16-minute interview extra on this DVD (included along with a terrific episode of the Sundance Channel's "Making of a Scene"), on the set making the film everybody was saying, "This is a star.  We're seeing a star.  And we're seeing him in that perfect moment before anybody else knows he's a star."

I heartily agree.  And I highly recommend you see "The Believer" for that reason above all others - to both see Gosling before his star shone as brightly, and to see why it burns so brilliantly today.