I don't think the ideas behind this film are bad, but I think they need to remain in context. Eva had to deal with this by finding a way to forgive, to carry on her life. Yet, she should not represent herself to be the opinion of all victims. The full length film (close to 120 minutes) clearly shows the objection of other survivors, who cannot forgive, which gives this film more authenticity.

Societies are constantly trying to spin history one way or another. Eva doesn't ask CRITICAL questions that should have been asked to the Palestinian's she met in this film. She never asked what THEIR opinions were of their life, their world, their leaders and their knowledge of recent world history. She never asked about what they honestly know about WWI or WWII. (For instance, what role did Hitler play - in their minds?) If anyone wants to discuss these issues, and come to some agreement - it would be important to FIRST establish common ground. Eva and the people who helped set up the meeting never discuss history and perception. In fact the person who suggested this to her comes off as a bit of a coward for sending this woman off into a very difficult situation.

Because history has a way to rewrite itself, I believe all people who watch this should also spend time reading and / or watching other historical documentaries. One famous book that adds a lot of value is "While 6 Million Died", by Arthur D Morse.
It would also be good background to watch this group of videos:

The First World War - The Complete Series
The Complete Story: World War I - Robert Ryan
The World at War
Russia's War: Blood Upon the Snow
Victory at Sea - The Legendary World War II Documentary
Man's Search for Meaning (Book by Viktor E Frankl) -First-hand account of being in the camps
Holocaust - Ravensbruck & Buchenwald
World War II - The Lost Color Archives
The 50 Years War - Israel & The Arabs

With this knowledge, can we truly understand the entire background of how the world found themselves in ANOTHER World War soon after WWI ended (called the War to End All Wars). Most important are the HISTORY lessons to understand as to why WWI happened, who was involved on either side, what the outcome was and how the outcome lead to WWII. How Germany and Japan played a role in WWII. I don't want to take away Eva's great impact on young people. But I believe that Eva doesn't see the impact of these WWI and WWII histories to the context of dealing with younger people, who probably have little no background on this, as well as the Palestinians she met with, who are simply NOT taught World History according to Western teaching standards.

After watching these above videos, you could also watch videos (or read well rated books) about those leaders who used genocide as a common domestic policy throughout history:
Japan's WWII soldiers in China
the Congo Genocide involving the Hutu,
Stalin's policies and actions while in power of the USSR (Who potentially killed upwards of 25 million of his own people!)
Chairman Mao Zedong (who potentially killed between 25 million and 70 million of his own people!)
Even the previous Syrian ruler Assad (the father of the current leader) was been accredited with killing an entire city of people in his own country in the 1980's (supposedly a faction of the Muslim Brotherhood) overnight - potentially killing 20,000 people without a trace of the city.

My hope in writing this review is that everyone take a closer look at history and the context of knowledge for each generation and each nationality. Germany, after WWII has gone out of their way to teach their children and every new generation about their role in the Holocaust. Yet this is never discussed in these films. Japan has been faulted in not teaching enough about their role in WWII to younger generations - see the paper titled "The Textbook Controversies in Japan:What History is Taught?" written by Aaron Cooley.