Watching this film again really does bring back the memories of seeing it for the first time in the cinema as a kid.
The 1970s saw a glut of disaster films but the Poseidon Adventure remains one of the best.

The plot sees an ageing liner - the SS Poseidon on her last cruise before being scrapped. Sailing out on this last voyage, on the cheap and with a disregard for safety by her owners, she encounters a tidal wave which capsizes her in spectacular fashion. From that point onwards, it is a desperate struggle for the surviving passengers and crew, to climb upwards through the stricken ship in search of rescue.

Casting and characterisation is generally good (with just some corn at times, hell this was the 1970s...).
Gene Hackman is a rebellious preacher who finds his own particular brand of very passionate faith, severely tested by the unfolding events surrounding the unfortunate SS Poseidon.
The ever dependable Ernest Borgnine is a cynical cop who has to dig deep into his own character as events threaten to overrun both him and his fellow survivors...
Shelley Winters makes her famous underwater swim in this film when she has to save Hackman's character.
You also get to see Leslie Neilson in a straight role as the ship's captain, infuriated by the reckless cost cutting of the owners...

The film used the original SS Queen Mary as the set and the result is a convincing, and at times gritty realism. The film is surprisingly brutal for its time and the band of survivors really does keep dwindling, as they make their desperate trek through the upturned and very dangerous hull of the ship. The upturned hull itself is a brilliantly realised world where all points of reference are changed. Ceilings have become floors and staircases are inverted. Fires, scalding stream, twisted metal, and flooding all add to the chaos and confusion.
The film runs along at a cracking pace and keeps the viewer's interest until the end.

That said, I would like to add my criticism to that already expressed by other reviewers of the fact that the existing dvd is in mono. Why?
I just hope that Twentieth Century Fox are to remedy this on the upcoming special edition dvd this year and give it the 5.1 soundtrack that both the film and viewer so richly deserve.