St. Elsewhere was a great show in its heyday.  It's still a fine show though it's a bit dated in spots.  Strong writing, thoughtful acting, inventive direction and camera-work (for the time).  Terrific fun to sit and watch early performances of actors who went on to do more great work (the late Robert Pastorelli, for one) and those who probably should have had better careers than they've had (Lance Guest, for example).

What gives this DVD set a 4-star rating instead of a 5-star rating is the sad extras.  On the plus side, St. Elsewhere has closed captioning.  On the negative, there is only one episode with commentary, "Cora and Arnie."  And nearly all the other extras deal with this same episode or the arc of stories in which it's included!  It was a great episode and Doris Roberts (who does commentary with Mark Tinker) and the late James Coco were very credible in the title roles.  In fact, they both won well-deserved Emmys.  But there's a lot more to the season than this one episode (#4) and its three or four episode arc.

It'd be great to have commentary with William Daniels, Howie Mandel, Ed Begley, Jr., Bonnie Bartlett, etc.  There's one very slight "Cora and Arnie" documentary which includes some comments from David Morse, but, again, it'd be great to get some talk from a variety of people on a variety of episodes.

I don't mind the double-sided DVD's all that much, and I don't need fancy packaging.  I just want meatier extras, spread out over the entire season.  More behind-the-scenes.  The best DVD episode commentaries are those involving two or more of the cast members.  Take a look at NCIS, for example. Maybe by the time the second and later seasons of St. Elsewhere roll out, they will have beefed up the extras and gotten together a few cast members to sit together and watch 4 or 5 episodes per season.

By the way, the character who dies of AIDS, Bobby Caldwell, was played by Mark Harmon NOT Mark Hamill as one reviewer stated.  Just trying to clear things up.