Patrick Bateman is dead, but his evil legacy continues with Rachael Newman (Mila Kunis), the only victim who managed to escape Bateman's grasp. Rachael will get rid of anyone who threatens her chances of becoming teaching assistant to the infamous Dr. Daniels, a professor and former FBI profiler. In a world where the stakes are higher and sex can kill, terror lurks in the new American Psycho.

Rather than trying to pick up where American Psycho left off, this sequel goes a different route by focusing on a whole new cast of characters. If you didn't already know, the first movie was based on the controversial book of the same name by author Bret Easton Ellis, who had no involvment what-so-ever in the making of this movie (he never wrote a sequel). Sadly, the movie is terrible, trite, and overall, a failure. Where the book (and, to a certain degree, the first movie) take a satirical view of the yuppie-laden 80s, this movie simply tries to be a violence-driven psycho-thriller, and loses all the ambience Ellis created for the original story. It's headlining star, Mila Kunis (better known for her role as Jackie in That 70s Show) does her best to deliver her role as a college student fascinated by serial killers, and determined to make her way into the FBI's training academy.

But her flat, un-emotional performance really only contributes to the movie's overall shortcomings, rather than attaining it's probable goal of setting her up as a student driven to succeed, even at the cost of becoming exactly what she intends to stop as a future FBI agent. This movie is a good waste of time, and may be worth renting if you really can't find anything else to watch. But be forwarned, fans of the original movie, and especially of Ellis' book will be especially dissapointed. There are certainly far worse movies from the same year than this, but that doesn't make this one any more capable of standing out. Sadly, Ellis' books simply don't translate well to film, they lose to much in the transer. But this flick goes a step beyond that by trying to make a sequel to an Ellis book, without actually having one of Ellis' writings to draw from