There are a lot of 5 star ratings for this film, even when you don't count the bot-critics and family/friends of the production crew.
There are also a lot of reviews up and down the star-ratings that make nasty comments toward parents that are offended by Rango's content. Fair enough. However...

1 It was marketed toward children and is even a featured trailer on other animated kid-flicks coming out on home video.
2 It was created by a Viacom division that once used the tagline - "Finally, kids have a channel of their own."
3 It IS an animated film that is based on and pays homage to numerous "R" rated films, not the least of which is the iconic "Chinatown," but was never to my knowledge presented as such to the public.
4 Amazon's own flagship review warns that the movie is too much for children under the age of 10.

Yes, "Rango" received a "PG" rating, but considering the content, it presses its nose up against the window of "PG-13" fairly frequently. The parents expressing concern have a valid reason for warning other parents and don't need, to quote at least one other review,to "get over it." I too am a parent, but my 6 "kids" are all over 18. I bought this film for my wife and I because we are both huge fans of animation as art and "Rango" looked different than anything else I'd seen outside of Pixar.

But, even though I "got" the "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas" moment, the "Chinatown" and "Hang 'Em High" Eastwood homages as well as numerous others, that doesn't mean I felt they were story-appropriate or well executed. Many of the nudge-and-wink references so common in modern films are placed to provide a smile to the cinephiles in the audience. This was even true in adult fare such as in the "Scream" films. None of the ones in "Rango" will mean a thing to the target demographic. Part of Pixar's immense success is because they have mastered the art of making films children love, but have enough intelligent references to ensure that viewers of all ages will find something to enjoy.  But as so often happens in Hollywood, the filmmakers here have stolen the style of Pixar (and at least visually, in some ways improved upon it) but none of the substance.

There are reasons this film deserves only 2 stars for me:

1. Numerous people have mentioned the usage of minor cursing in the film. To me that isn't a big deal when compared to the copious amount of sexual references in the film. Calling them "huevos" or "mangos" instead of testes and breasts doesn't mean the terms won't be understood, nor is it coy and cute.

2. It's extremely racist to resurrect an old latina prostitute and pimp joke even if you subtly change the phrasing to "you want to kiss my seester?" from the standard (and unprintable) punchline.

3. Our society (translate that to the children that will BECOME society) is constantly bombarded with sex and violence. As a result, by the time the average child is 10 years old he or she will have witnessed over 50 thousand violent deaths, and that's just from television. I'm no puritan, but such fare is fun for adults that know the difference between reality and fantasy, not pre-adolescent children. Our kids get desensitized to sexuality and violence by films exactly like "Rango."

4. A rattlesnake with a gatling gun for a tail and bullet belts in lieu of half its scales? That's not creativity, it's laziness.

5. There are so many slow spots in the film that the pacing of the movie more closely resembles a slow crawl than a "pace."

6. If I wanted a largely humorless and grim cartoon I would have thrown in my copy of Akira or any of the assorted other anime films I own or have seen.

I elevated this rating to 2 stars because it incorporates several recent developments in digital animation and the overall look of the "cinematography" is simply amazing to see. But the reasons I listed above, as well as the fact that asking Gore Verbinski to direct a children's film is like asking Dr. Seuss to rewrite the script for a "Silence of the Lambs" remake are valid. Finally, the so-called "never before seen ending" and many of the deleted scenes change very little from the released version of the film - in some cases only a single word or two variance. I would only recommend this film to insomniacs with no elementary school-age children. It's has a brilliant vision, but fails utterly in delivery and execution. I also caution potential customers with small kids. The complaints that myself and others have mentioned regarding how boring and/or inapropriate this movie is for the target crowd are not the mere ravings of a bunch of conservative zealots. The concerns have a far more solid foundation in many ways than the movie itself was built upon.