I devoured Phillipa Gregory's "The Other Boleyn Girl" and was excited to then watch the movie.

I was so very disappointed.

The movie is basically only about the fact that Henry needs an heir.

It barely touches on the great measures he takes to gain one. (Forcing his current wife into exile til he can marry Anne, claiming his first marriage was invalid, his separation from Rome and the Pope, setting forth new laws to suit his own needs, the Oath of Succession (after Elizabeth is born) and the fact that Henry put to death anyone who refused (even his good friends)).
None of that was really touched on in the movie at all. The separation from Rome was merely mentioned in passing.

It hardly touched on how tortured and desparate Anne is to give Henry a son.
The bitter rivalry between Mary and Anne is hardly felt at all.
And the time just flies. Anne managed to keep Henry's eyes on just her for many years, but in this movie it seems as if just days had passed. There is no showing of time passed.

Lots of other interesting stuff was left out of the movie, making it very dull to me.
To mention a few: ****BOOK SPOILERS!*****
The fact that Mary bore Henry two children before he moved onto Anne.
The "monster" baby that was born to Anne after she supposedly slept with her brother to conceive a son (which she was sure Henry could not.), which then led to her downfall, trial, and then death.
Anne being so desperate, and unfeeling towards Mary, that she adopts Mary's son out from under her.
Mary finding true love with William Stafford and the drama that that relationship caused.
George's hidden homosexual love life.
How the Howards and Boleyns treated Mary and Anne as if they were nothing more than pawns, and had no cares about their wishes or feelings.
Henry moving onto Jane Seymore when Anne was so desperately trying to hold onto him and give him a son.
I could go on forever.....

Bottome line, the good stuff in the story was all removed for this movie and we were left only the most basic of details.

No feeling, no emotion, no richness, etc.
Everything was just so glossed over.

I would not recommend this movie.
Book or no book.
It's just not a very interesting/good movie.