For all those giving this movie 1-2 star ratings, please understand the serious problems involved in making this thing.  The film was originally scheduled for a 2002 release but it suffered from production and serious financial problems -- the company went bankrupt during post-production. I'm guessing they HAD to slap together something and get it released to make enough money just to pay off all the lawyers.

The "cheesy" CGI was of the quality found in big-budget TV sci-fi shows of that time (like Star Trek Voyager). The post-production team probably could not afford to buy high-end "Jurassic Park" type CGI for a B-movie. The CGI renditions they used are passable on a TV-size screen but come off as absolutely horrid on a 40 foot screen. I suspect this is why much of the film was shot in low-light environments -- don't have to show as much detail.

As noted by many, the film also suffered from terrible scripting; don't blame the actors, they have to work with what's placed in front of them.

Remember, the movie was based on a Ray Bradbury sci-fi short story written in the 1950's -- long before much was known about how dinosaurs became extinct, or the fact that the Earth suffered numerous mass-extinctions throughout its history. The whole "butterfly effect" is absurdly ridiculous especially given the fact the plot has a pyroclastic flow from an erupting volcano wiping out all the local life anyway. Nor can we ignore the giant comet / meteor that wiped out some 90% of all life on the planet 65-million years ago (that probably was not known as a scientific fact when Bradbury wrote the story).

Did it ever occur to anyone that maybe the butterfly was SUPPOSED to die and that the "time-wave" events depicted in the movie ,in fact, showed the correct version of evolution? Maybe it was Homo Sapiens (and all other primates) who shouldn't be here today? Maybe it was the highly-evolved simian-reptiles who actually made the first journey back to the Jurassic tar-pit and THEY were the ones who screwed everything up in the first place?

Never the less, I gave the movie a charitable 3-star rating. Suitable for kids cooped up in the house on a rainy Saturday afternoon or a dorm room beer party. Cheap entertainment, just avoid thinking while viewing and you'll be o.k. Good B-movie sci-fi fun.