I'm totally flabbergasted and confused:  the editorial review opens by saying the film "takes liberty" with history -- and history seems to repeat itself with the same pheonomenon that plagued Stone's landmark film, "JFK".  
Read between the lines.  The critics say the film "enhances" the role of Presidential aide, Kenny O'Donnell.  Costner had a great teacher in Stone, and the team that created the film poured over the declassified document releases of the previous decade.  It is no less valid as cinematic historical dramatization because O'Donnell's hundred hours of taped interviews from the 1960s were a key ingredient in the film's background research -- provided to the director by O'Donnell's son.  Where do we get our understanding of history?  From the people who lived it, folks!  Obviously the film's accuracy will only be slightly skewed because of the chosen perspective, and viewers will not be misled if they understand the material.  That should be obvious from the credits at the end of "Thirteen Days".
The only other "liberty" taken by Costner with this film?  The bullet holes in the reconnaissance plane used to verify the U-2 findings of Russian missiles.  The real pilot of that flight was later interviewed in a cable-TV documentary on the actual Missile Crisis, and remarked that although no Cuban bullets hit the plane, "We came pretty darn close!"  Given the nature of other facts in post-war history that have been kept from the public, it was quite possible that the pilot was still honoring the agreement he made with the real Kenny O'Donnell, but the issue of the bullet-holes is insignificant chaff.
I give "two thumbs up" to this film for its ground-breaking historical presentation.  I offer a more modest four stars only because the music score of the sound-track falls noticeably short of other films in the same genre, such as Stone's "JFK", and much earlier docu-drama works such as "MacArthur" starring Gregory Peck. 
Costner is an exceptionally talented actor and director with a penetrating, independent mind.  I still wax quizzical at a recorded poem on one of his web sites, in which he remarks emphatically -- "I believe Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone!"  That opinion may have changed, but has little bearing on "Thirteen Days" -- rich in both its accuracy and its dramatic presentation.  Costner should have many productive years ahead, developing his talents as a director beyond his acting ability.  We'll keep an eye open for more of his contributions.