This has to be one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  There is so much bad to write, I just don't know where to begin.  How about with the filming?  I think this film was the prototype for those idiotic AT&T commercials back in the eighties with some guy shaking the camera, not able to focus on any particular object.  It's very annoying.  There are just endless mobs of people roaming about like they just showed up from the filming of "Night of the Living Dead."

Now to the acting.  Al Pacino is at his very worst here.  He looks and sounds like he's drunk.  I don't think he could have been worse if it had been his New Year's resolution.  Another reviewer wrote that Pacino's dialect was some sort of Proto-North American.  Rubbish!!. He has the typical New York Italian dialect, which is very out of place in revolutionary New York, as Italians did not arrive in NY in large numbers until a good century later. Based on his dialect, a better title might have been `Duh Mob meets duh Bridish." Donald Sutherland is even worse; he looks like he just drank a gallon of vinegar.  I really don't know how they could be worse.  Pacino's love interest is terrible, absolutely terrible.  I couldn't even understand half of what Pacino and Sutherland said. Nor did I care.

The scene in the `house of joy' is utterly ridiculous.  The two British officers come across like a couple poofters--one wonders what the ladies are even doing there.

During the movie I was went back and forth between boredom and anger.  Boredom because nothing interesting happens; anger because there is nothing to cheer for.  Neither side, American or British, is shown as noble.  Both sides come across as base and selfish.  This was not, as another reviewer has suggested, the common man's view in the war. If such had been the case, no one would have signed up.  There simply is nothing to root for. It's movies like this that guarantee that the public will have no interest in movies about the Revolution.  That's sad, as it is a very interesting and important part of American history.

I could go on and on and on about how bad this movie is.