I began feeling very nervous when I put the dvd in and the first preview that played was for a movie called Two-headed Shark. I became almost panicky when the words "SyFy presents" appeared in the opening sequence. Thankfully, the movie wasn't completely unwatchable, though you will find yourself groaning and saying, "Come on!" in annoyance at the screen far too often. There are some good actors in the movie. I got the film based entirely off of Mr Rhames appearance in it. Also, the actress named Lesley-Ann Brandt is one of the most beautiful women I have ever seen, as well as a good actress (or as good as can be expected in this type of film). Taryn Manning was terrible and about half way through the film, it was almost as if the director forgot she was even in it. The guy that played "Crabman" in "My Name is Earl" (cant remember his name) is in it as well, but dont expect much from him. The zombies are laughable at best. Poor latex masks are seen far too often. This was obviously a film where open casting in whatever town they filmed in advertised, " Come be in a movie! You can be a zombie!" and all the local Fangoria readers showed up. Thats fine, except the director spends too much camera time on these people, so the poor acting and bad makeup become disturbingly evident. As for the story, the main thing that irked me was that these people are supposed to be hard-@ss survivors of a zombie apocalypse, yet time after time they show the worst decision making skills I have ever seen. Repeated numerous times in the film- the characters walk in to a seemingly empty location. One of the characters yells at the top of his lungs, "Any living people here!", which is followed by a bunch of zombies showing up, the characters fighting them with a combination of hand weapons and fire arms. Bullets seem to grow on trees based on how they are wasted. In one scene, a group of zombies are fighting the characters and Ving Rhames wastes about 4 bullets shooting a zombie in the chest before one in the head. Not because he needed too, but because he was being tough or something. Another character shoots a zombie 3 times in the head (again, not because he had to-just because he could)?! At one point, there is a scene wherein some characters are describing the value of using bows and arrows against the zombies. He announces to the group to make sure they reclaim the arrows whenever possible because they dont have that many. The VERY NEXT scene, they shoot 3 zombies in an alley (with no other zombies around). All the characters step over the bodies and leave the arrows behind. I know this may sound like nit picking, but as another reviewer here wrote, the attention to detail was horrendous. Oh, and the one unintentionally laugh out loud moment in the movie- at one point, a bunch of zombies show up and one of the characters screams "AMBUSH!". What?!? They zombies , in between wandering around aimlessly are plotting to ambush people? Silly. Almost forgot-SyFy doesnt let you down. You WILL see CGI animal creatures.