Jodi Foster has hit her prime a long time ago. She did a couple of fresh roles in The Accused and Silence of the Lambs. She was part of the overall hit Maverick. Yeah it was amazing (but in reality disturbing) to see her as a kid in The Taxi Driver and Freaky Friday. BUT . . . Flightplan was just Jodi Foster playing another character. Same mannerisms. Same whispering voice. Same sideways look when she is trying to play defenseless and vulnerable. Again she is one dimensional like Julia Roberts. When both of them were young and new we didn't care as it was a treat to see them. But after decades of them in movie after movie we just see Julia Roberts and Jodi Foster playing another role as themselves. Boring. Anyway this movie was a Hollywood liberal attempt at "teaching" Americans how to look at Muslims after 9/11, including the finger wagging. This movie was focused heavily on Muslims and Middle Easterns and how Americans "stereotype". It mocks our fear of their hatred. It mocks the memory of 9/11. But the overall plot was nothing more than Panic Room. Woman protecting kid (this time a daughter who actually looks, acts, dresses, and talks like a girl, not a boy. . . but traded in for a silicon injected lip, bugged eyed, big faced woman and a sinister villain who squints a drug induced look through the entire movie) against evil men. They never tell you why she was the target here unlike Panic Room. They never made all the connections including her husband's death. They just have a character mention it in passing. They never even explain why the villains are being villainous. They just have characters mention a few words about it is good for them that muslims were on board. They never link the muslims on the plane back to the window scenes even though they showed them to you. Anyway the only interesting part centered around figuring out whether there was a kid or not. But honestly I get tired of Hollywood mind game plots (e.g. A Beautiful Mind, Shutter Island, etc). It was something to fill the void of the movie or better yet the movie that they couldn't begin or end.

Anyway, I remember seeing this movie in the theatre and getting up and leaving after they started lecturing us about stereotyping muslims. I watched it recently here to see the final ending. Sorry I did.