This movie has been resoundingly trashed by many observers. Still I thought the premise exciting, so I went, expecting that almost anything might come of it. One valid criticism is in the way that invalid science is invoked in in the premise and the plot's playing out. For example, the Earth's core could not suddenly stop rotating and then be started rotating suddenly again without conservation of angular momentum causing a marked change in the rotation of the rest of the Earth, giving the Earth's surface a cataclysmic jolt both times. Also solid diamonds, and especially geodes, almost certainly could not exist deep in the Earth's mantle. And the point at which travelers to the core re-emerge to the ocean floor is said to be at a tectonic plate boundary near Hawaii. But actually, Hawaii is in the middle of the Pacific plate, not near a plate boundary. And the substance from which the craft is built, ostensibly capable of surviving conditions deep within the Earth all the way to the core, has its properties demonstrated when a mouse survives inside a box thereof, while laser beams destroy ordinary metal all around. But that gives no indication as to how the vehicle to built can have windows, but it does. Some say these problems don't matter, but really they should not be passed off as irrelevant. That is because the movie has the tone of serious science-fiction, and immerses its events into a good deal of talk based in real science. The film is not a sci-fi spoof like EVOLUTION or a fantasy like LORD OF THE RINGS or HARRY POTTER. Therefore the CORE should pay serious attention to how it grounds itself in some real science, and not let things degenerate from there into complete nonsense.
Nonetheless, I was postiively impressed by much of the adventure in this movie, so that its breaks with real science didn't completely undermine its entertainment value. Some of its performers were so surprisingly good compared to other recent roles as to help make the movie a pleasant surprise. Hilary Swank was so much better than in INSOMNIA, DJ Qualls was so much better than in THE NEW GUY, and Bruce Greenwood was so much better than in DOUBLE JEOPARDY. Not that their previous lackluster performances were particularly there own faults; perhaps those movies gave them relatively little to work with. Still, seeing them shine in THE CORE was a definitely a plus.
But perhaps the one biggest problem with THE CORE, and my reason for giving it only 3 rather than 4 stars, is the disappointing ending. Not to give away too much, but the film ends rather abruptly, leaving an ambiguity, about which perhaps we're expected to suppose an outcome. But I thought it needed to act out an ending more clearly. If you see it, you should know what I mean, but I'll give no more away.