SPIELBERG WANTED FOR PLAGERISM -

READ THE FOLLOWING AND DECIDE WHICH MOVIE IS DIFFERENT

All I can say is "Munich" was well done as all of Spielberg's movies are.

Spielberg shamelessly ripped off a movie from the 80's called "Sword Of Gideon" He even copied scenes shot for shot. He also gave no credit to the "Sword Of Gideon" Filmakers  "Sword of Gideon," is now available on DVD premiered on HBO in 1986. Like Steven Spielberg's film "Munich" about Israel's response to the terrorist attack at the 1972 Olympic Games.

Not as bloody as "Munich" but not as slow.

Close to three hours long and nearly 20 years old, this TV movie from HBO fares decently for what it was and is-a look at Israel's legendary counter-terrorist initiative following an attack on its Olympic athletes in Munich.

Based on George Jonas' book Vengeance, "Sword of Gideon" spends most of its time portraying how Israeli agents crossed the globe killing Arab extremists-including members of the "Black September" organization that masterminded the "Munich Massacre" killing 11 Israelis in September 1972.

The movie stars Steven Bauer(Scareface) as Avner, a commander in the Israeli army who is recruited by the Mossad (Israel's intelligence agency) to lead the team of spies that will exact revenge for Jewish deaths.

The first couple of minutes show a re-creation of the attack in Munich; the rest concentrates on Avner's recruitment, training and executing of mission ... and men. One of the movie's most significant features is the way it depicts Avner and company killing their targets in cold blood.

"Gideon" also shows how Avner's work affects his personal life, especially his relationships with his wife (Leslie Hope) and father (John Hirsch).

Colleen Dewhurst makes a cameo as Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir. She personally appeals to Avner to take the assignment, telling him that "the guilty must not go unpunished."

 Israel, she says, "exists to protect us from our enemies and to provide us with a haven in this world where we can live in peace. But they will not let us live in peace." They are killing Jews everywhere, she says-even in Munich.

SOUND FAMILIAR KEEP READING...

"Meanwhile the rest of the world is playing volleyball and winning medals," she continues, referring to the fact that when the terrorists seized the athletes in Munich, the Olympic Committee initially decided to carry on with the games.

 Avner says he needs to think about the offer, but it doesn't take him long to accept. He is guided by a top-level official named Samuels, played convincingly by Rod Steiger, who introduces him to the other team members.

There's Hans (Robert Joy), who specializes in documents; Robert (Michael York), the explosives expert; Jean (Laurent Malet), who's in charge of transportation; and Karl (Peter Dvorsky), whom they call the "sweeper" because he makes sure they leave no traces.

Then it begins: hit after hit after hit, with a fair amount of attention to the conflicting feelings of Avner's team. For example, as they prepare to whack one of the terrorists in France, they are concerned about the man's young daughter and the effect his killing will have on her.

 Along the way, Avner and his men become targets themselves as word of their executions spreads among their enemies. The last hour of the movie gets a bit weighted down as each planned killing becomes less interesting than the one before.

 IT's THE SAME MOVIE. SPIELBERG DIDN'T EVEN BOTHER TO MAKE IT DIFFERENT. AS A JEW I SEE HIM AS BEING GUILT RIDDEN. HE OPENS THE DVD BY BASICALLY DEFENDING HIMSELF AND THE MOVIE (WHICH HE STOLE)