This belongs to that rare genre SPECULATIVE sci-fi, where what is depicted could soon take place. Silent Running refers to an earth in future without the sound of birds due to the absence of forests and most other vegetative life, as much as it refers to the soundlessness of outer space. Here we have a tract for the foresight needed to maintain not only our earth as a healthy planet, but a place that would then encourage healthy people, both physically and socially.
While Bruce Dern gives one of his characteristic performances of an off kilter individual, he succeeds in obtaining the sympathy of the viewer for a return to a verdant earth, from the sterile and dessicated environs of ships in space. When his three shipmates are willing to obey orders to destroy the ship and return to a barren earth of artificial food and air, Bruce's character finds the unforseen will to do the unthinkable. His solid performance is one in a long line of distinctive portrayals. Still, it is really the three little robots: "Huey, Dewey, and Loui" who steal the show in clever asides and moments of pathos, even for these very 'human' machines.
One of the great blessings of this film is that it does not beat one over the head with strident sound, nor do the special effects, which are excellent, ever take over the story. You feel the desperation of Bruce's character and yet you understand the dillema the crew faces as the orders come down. I was taken with the scene where the three antagonists of crewmen berate Lowell, Bruce's protagonist, for bringing into their quarters a real cantelope, which the other three fellows call "stinking!", this a vivid way of demonstrating the alienation that people can attain when too long removed from the nuture of our earth as is paralleled in many of the urban 'jungles' of today. As our society becomes more and more urbanized and divorced from the goodness of God's earth, we too often find the natural odors of earth unpleasant, while we come to regard artificialy conditioned air as 'natural.' 
While the movie is very entertaining on the strictly visual level, it is more a cautionary tale about how we could mess up our earth and our futures if we don't pay attention to the false hopes of technology, in company with human greed. The tug-at-your-heartstrings ending will disappoint some, but realists will acknowledge it ruefully. The gardeners among us may smile at the desperate attempts to provide light for the forest in the end, but no one will go away without a greater appreciation of just how ingenious and precious is ALL life on earth, vegatable or otherwise. To be sure, the true God, our Creator, will never allow the situation depicted here to develop, for He "... did not created the [Earth] simply for nothing ..." (Isaiah 45:18) and that He will "bring to ruin those ruining the earth." (Rev. 11:18) Yet, before that day shortly arrives, one can enjoy this blend of sleek science fiction with the gentle theme of reverence for God's creation, all against a melodious musical background.