1. When you hear a child singing, you are about to die horribly.
2. When you see a woman being beaten to death with a meat cleaver, the most sensible course of action is to run immediately to the scene (preferably unarmed).
3. If you find yourself being chased around by a hatchet-wielding maniac, remember that elevators make good weapons.
4. Jazz pianists are unbelievably dim-witted.
The thing to remember about Dario Argento's movies is that style is treated with more importance than plot or dialogue. "Deep Red" has little in the way of original plot (owing much to Antonioni's "Blow Up" or Argento's own "The Bird With The Crystal Plumage"), and some of the interaction between David Hemmings and Daria Nicolodi is painful to watch and listen to. The fact that the language sometimes switches back and forth between Italian and English in the middle of a scene is only a minor distraction, but it doesn't do much in the film's favour.
I can't agree with those who describe this as Argento's best, but it's still a very entertaining couple of hours (probably closer to 3.5 stars). Inventive killings, several red herrings to keep the viewer on edge (including one which, admittedly, is so blindingly obvious that it made me wonder how Hemmings' character took so long to realise it himself - see point 4 above), and an underlying sense of malice running through the entire film make for an uncomfortable experience....but it's uncomfortable in a good way. A word of warning, though: if you're *too* perceptive, you'll know the killer's identity very early in the movie. It's a question of knowing where to look.
Aside from the constant switching between languages, my only real gripe with the film would be its soundtrack. The music, by Goblin, is highly effective for some scenes, but in others (especially when Hemmings enters the House of Ghosts) it sounds like it's been lifted verbatim from "Tubular Bells" and at other times it sounds like a bad imitation of Emerson, Lake & Palmer.
Having said that, I think the positives of "Deep Red" outweigh the negatives, and provide a good buildup for what I think was Argento's real masterpiece - "Deep Red"'s follow-up, "Suspiria".