Well, it's time for an actual DVD review.  Who's with me?  Ya there?  Good.  Okay, I'm gonna break it down here with a little intro - I'm a little young (15) to remember when this show started, I lived off scattered reruns.  I enjoyed what I saw greatly - while the animation style wasn't stunning like Batman TAS, it felt like watching a comic book come to life - which caught my attention.  So, I'm gonna break it down for ya.

VIDEO: 3/5
Well, this is a mixed bag.  I don't care that there's been no remastering, because I like it when a show retains its retro look (it's something Disney needs to remember for their movies when they "remaster" them).  However, bad interlacing causes "ghosting" - which is where during high-action scenes the frames seem to blend together in such a way that a brief after-image is often present.  Very distracting, especially when you go from episode-to-episode and find one look great, hope the next will, and get hit with disappointment.  Bitrate is good though, compression seems minimal.

AUDIO: 4/5
Well, it's no remaster.  But it does the job.  3 tracks to select from, English French & Spanish I believe.  Each does its job, and it seems the music is quiet in all of them but the english.

EXTRAS: 0/5
Oh wait, what extras?  I find it hillarious that they put a commentary disclaimer and didn't bother to get anyone do do one - not even on the Phoenix Saga, arguably the series' most famous arc.

DVD ITSELF: 2/5
Well... disc one works in one of three DVD players, and disc 2 works on (as of the ones I've tried) only a PC and a PS3.  This is outright embarrassing for Disney, as it's something I'd expect from a bootleg - not a legitimate product!  Also, it appears that there's over 99 video titles - what a waste of space!  Each episode is spread out into titles rather than chatpers, understandably, but when I examine the VTS files on the DVDs there's just so many that it becomes ridiculous!  And there's only about 8 episodes on each disc, so it makes no sense.  Plus, no one is going to enjoy your Hamster movie Disney, so stop forcing your ads for it on our DVDs.  One last thing - cover art is just as amazing as it appears on the internet.

Then, the last two important questions:

1.  Is the set uncut?
-It appears to be so, other than the fact that they used the edited version of the Lady Deathstrike episode.  For those unfamiliar, the white undershirt was requested by FOX after the episode slipped through with only her outer dress - thus, showing a little too much cleavage for their tastes.  Understandable, and I can't complain; if they'd only made the change now, I'd be going crazy.  Also, the show's pacing seems off a few times, which may make you think it is edited; however, that's just the structure of a few episodes. Another thing is that unless in a large saga (and even in some of the two-parters), the flashbacks seen in "previously on x-men" sequences are character-based rather than production-based; so you might see something looking unfamiliar, because it happened more episodes back than the set.

So if you don't wanna read all this, then yes.

2.  Is it worth it?
-A die-hard fan may want to wait and see if Buena Vista decides to come out with another one.  However, for someone looking for a quick nostalgia trip, this is perfect - and the price can't be beat by legitimate means.  The average consumer probably wont' complain.

Hopefully, I've answered some of the common questions.

Also, despite what I say here, buy this set.  Maybe it'll convince Disney to not stop the sets mid-series like they did with Gargoyles.