I was only 6 or 7 when I saw this movie.  I absolutely hated it & I cried in the theater & all the way home & for days afterwards.  I've never had the same feeling for Walt Disney since then.  When I was really, really little, when my mom couldn't find me right away, she'd first look for our dog, & then find me, either sleeping next to or on my dog, Ladddie's, stomach.  I'm a "senior cititzen" now and still I find the safest place to be is with my dogs.  After all these years I've never forgiven Walt Disney for this film.  I've only seen it once - in 1957 & I don't ever, ever want to see it again.  Out of all the Disney films I eventually took my son to see, or recommend he see when he got older, this was the only one I suggested he avoid - at all costs - because he's as sensitive as I am with our dogs.  I'm surprised that after 5 decades I still hold a grudge against Disney for making this film.  It was hard enough when Stephen King's "Cujo" was made into a film.......I suppose my point is, if you have any kids who love their dog and are sensitive there is no sense exposing them to this (let alone "Marley & Me", which, my students - yes, I'm a dog training instructor now, stated grown men cried at).....what's the point????!!!!!)  If you have a good relationship with your dog, why not accentuate that part of it?  When the end comes it is so heart wrenching I don't see the need to pay to watch it in a movie theater or at home........And for those of us that our dogs are our "family" - why show this inevitable part of losing them?  It can take years to finally start to manage grief......why not have more films that show the positive aspects of choosing to live together, what we learn about each other, and in spite of all our faults, we can learn to live & love one another?  Just my 2 cents worth....I just lost my 2 youngest & smallest dogs within 3 months of each other earlier this year, very unexpectedly, and hope better days are in store for the rest of y'all with your pups....Look for all the good stuff your own pups offer & please, take the time to find a trainer you enjoy working with that uses positive reinforcement-based training!  Lyne C, CPDT-KA, Tail Wagging Fun Dog Training, Inc.