.

...then buy Unforgiven.

Let's just set the Heaven's Gate plot aside for a moment (all 3 hours and 40 minutes of it).  Even granting this self-indulgent, obtuse epic a pardon, the DVD still deserves to be tried, convicted, and buried in the cheap seats on Boot Hill.  The Heaven's Gate DVD is, without question, the WORST DVD that I have ever had the (dis)pleasure to view.

Why?  Well let's start with the video quality, which is horrific.  No, I'm not referring to the Director's color palette.  Yes, the chosen sepia tones are annoying, but I defer to the critics and assume that it was an inspired choice.  No, I am referring to the film transfer....which was apparently done on someone's five year old PC using film reels stored in the trunk of an abandoned car that has sat in the desert for the last 20 years.  The transfer is awash with reel change markers, dirt, scratches and random purple spots, which appear throughout the film.  Furthermore, the quality varies SIGNIFICANTLY between reels.  Okay, let's assume that you can tolerate the transfer.  Can you still enjoy the film?  Sure...if you can read lips.

The sound is horrid.  The mix is insanely poor.  The center channel is low and muffled.  In fact, it is so poor that we stopped the movie and played every game that we could with the surround sound system, television, and the DVD player...all to no effect.  I'm not talking about trying to tweak a less than perfect 5.1 soundtrack - we were just trying to understand the actors!  The sound is so muddied and overwhelmed by supporting background noise that much of the dialog is completely unintelligible.  It was so bad that we even tried to turn on the subtitles.  Unfortunately, my high school French is rusty and my friend's Spanish more so.  Yes, that's right - no English subtitles.

I am not even going to address the plot.  Nope.  I'm not even going to say that it was obtuse, meandering, and in need of serious editing.  Whoops, I guess that I did.  I mean, what the heck?  Nearly four hours and no background on the motivation for the Harvard types to move West.  No background on the relationship between "the association" and the state and federal governments...or perhaps the main characters?  Well, I suppose that, given time constraints, all possible interesting back stories had to be shelved...and understandably so.  I mean who has time for such trivia when you need to dedicate ten minutes to a roller skating musical number...or 15 minutes to a drunken college graduation ceremony?

Run from this movie.  Run and hide.  It may (and I emphasize MAY) be tolerable with a better transfer, but I suspect that even a fan of this "masterpiece" would be amazingly disappointed with this DVD mastering.