The premise for this movie was a good one. Fate brings two people together from diverse backgrounds with very different agendas. Neither one understands for a minute just how important the moment in time when they meet is for the other. The rich guy blows off the poor guy because the rich guy's time and schedule has to be far more important than whatever the poor guy has going on. The poor guy picks up a file folder inadvertently dropped in the street by the rich guy and thereby gains leverage for the following events. How far will each one go to get what he wants and needs forms the basis for the rest of the film. It could have been so good. Instead, it was soooooo bad.
The trailer for this movie promised me suspense, excitement, thrills and chills. I saw this film in its first day of release. I'm still waiting for all the reactions I was promised to sink in. The point is that the trailer was far, far better than the movie it represents. The trailer is also extremely misleading.
Ben Aflick tries very hard to be the hardcase lawyer type, but I got the impression from the beginning that Ben just didn't have it in him. He can do arrogant; he just can't pull off heartless and cold-blooded when he keeps showing up with that one lonely tear working its way down his perfect face. It's not the "Men Don't Cry" syndrome so much as it just is so out of character to see him as doing whatever it will take to get his file back while he has these simultaneous attacks of conscience and that one lonely tear.
Samuel L. Jackson is one of my favorite actors. I believed, before I saw Changing Lanes that Samuel L. could play anyone or anything. I was wrong. Whoever thought it would be a good idea to emasculate Samuel for this movie should be fired from movie making forever. Samuel's character has every reason to feel outrage - at his sorry life, at Ben Aflick's mania for the file Jackson accidently has in his possession, at his wishy-washy wife, even at the world at large. There are sparks of Samuel's outrage here and there, but they come at odd times and without much credibility. Even Jackson's superb talent can't make up for lousy writing and direction when it's this poorly done.
I've noticed that some people consider this movie a story about morality. I suppose that could be true; however, my take is a little different. If this movie makes a statement about anything, I'd say it's about the advantages of taking a bus.