"Triumph of the Will" is Leni Riefenstahl's infamous propaganda masterpiece that has been both applauded and condemned -- misunderstood and manipulated. Despite the attempts by politically correct film critics to simply dismiss Riefenstahls work as "fascistic crap" - Triumph Of The Will remains a beautiful, poignant dedication to what could be best described as the "last gasp" of classical Europe. The photography is simply stunning and the fluid-like movement of the various sequences provides a sense of continuity rarely paralleled in modern film. 
One of the reasons Riefenstahl's work has simply not "faded away" like the dozens of other German and Italian propaganda films of the era, is because Riefenstahl had an acute, sensitive understanding of her subject matter. She tackled her work as an artist, not a politician. Without the trappings of an agenda, Riefenstahl allowed herself to explore on film the hopes and aspirations of her country - who after losing almost 2 generations of men during the First World War and suffering a decade of humiliation and economic deprivation, saw itself as a phoenix rising from the ashes to reclaim its past - a past that had produced Goethe and Nietzsche, Mozart and Wagner. 
Although not a member of the Nazi Party, Riefenstahl was one of many European artists of the era who embraced the National Socialist ideal of "cultural regeneration" - or, a rejection of modernism in favor of a return to the values and ideals of classical Europe. Riefenstahl realizes these ideals in her film by subtly juxtaposing National Socialist Germany with the pageantry and heroism of ancient Greece and Rome (with flavors of Germanic mythology). 
By and large it would seem that most members of the public and self-proclaimed "film buffs" have never actually seen this film or at best only viewed portions of it.  Why is Triumph of the Will important? Not because it is a "bizarre" cinematic look at totalitarianism, but because it is the only occasion in the history of film that Western civilization was captured AS it was actually changing - as desperate and as painful as that process was. That said, Riefenstahl proves herself a masterful director with a flair for cultivating and building upon abstract and larger-than-life themes. She is at once experimental and bold, technique-driven and sensible. Like her contemporary, the classical sculptor Arno Brecker, Riefenstahl allows herself to celebrate the future with a colorful eye on the past. 
Watch this film and you are watching history.