It's a pity thought that the creators behind the excellent «The Emperor's New Groove» were the same who made the muddled and schizofrenic «Chicken Little». The former film were originally planned to be a drama, but turned a complete different direction when the dramatic parts didn't worked and the result turned out to be a somewhat bizarre and frenetic film. But still it felt as a breath of fresh air and became a highly entertaining experience. Unfortunately, the same can't be said for «Chicken Little». Although this film is also a frenetic comedy, it lacks the spunk and the freshness of it's predecessor and it's overall more flawed.

«Chicken Little» isn't a terrible film, but its potential is wasted. The film has its moments, but could been a whole lot better if some structure were put into the screenplay. The film's first twenty minutes or so are it's best one. This movie begins as relatively cute and charming story, with along some amusing pop references.

Unfortunately, the good things doesn't overcome the bad things in «Chicken Little». The thin screenplay isn't its worst problem. The several action sequences are terribly frenetic and hyperactive, accompained with the boisterous score by John Debney. His score works best on the calmer parts, but completely fails on the more adventurous sequences. The emotional moments in the film feels forced and completely sentimental and despite the film brings out a few laughs, there are some akward moments as well.

The pop and movie references is what ultimately makes the film, along with a passable and actually quite inspiring moral. The characters are quite passable, making Abby Mallard (voiced by Joan Cusack) the strongest and most likeable of the cast. The rest of the voice actors delivers a decent efforts, without being particularly memorable (although Zac Braff's as Chicken Little himself is distinctive). Animation-wise, the film is good looking, but isn't as lush and detailed compared to Dreamwork's and Pixar's works.

The blu ray offers a excellent picture, along with informative audio commentary. So the hardcore fans should certainly check the blu ray edition out.