So as not to prejudice my review, I have not looked at any of the other reviews of this piece of offal. This is, without a doubt, the worst movie I have ever seen, Plan 9 from Outer Space included. To begin with, the acting isn't even high school drama quality. The soundtrack is junk; it's "on" when someone speaks, then drops to zero. The story takes FOREVER to get started; the first hour there is really nothing other than a budding love story between two yuppie types, neither of whom can act their way out of a wet paper bag. The "love" scene is another hoot: she strips down to her Victoria Secrets and he has a t-shirt and pants on - and both are still similarly attired hours later when they are aroused out of bed by the birds attacking.

When the birds finally attack, it first sounds like mini-jets bombing stuff. The special effects must have been done by Mrs. Johnson's 4th grade class. They are so bad that Ed Wood looks like a genius in comparison.

Then, of course, there is the ham-fisted rants about global warming and the use of fossil fuels causing all the issues; and while the nincompoops responsible for this piece of trash are at it, they have to get in many references to giving peace a chance and the evils of the Iraq war. Of course the people in the movie drive an old van that probably gets 10 miles to the gallon, on fossil fuels, so there is an inconsistency.

The guns, which finally, mercifully, run out of bullets after about 1,000 rounds each sound like cap guns; the few "birds" that are shot drop like flies, but for all the rounds fired, at close range, very few birds are killed in this manner.

A really stupid, hilarious scene is when the "stars," including two semi-obnoxious kids, come across a tour bus being attacked by the birds. The birds are between the bus and the van, so in order to "save" the tourists, the protagonists open fire on the birds, aiming directly at the bus.

I will say this; I have spent money foolishly on movies in my lifetime hundreds of times, but NEVER have I wasted money like I did on this stupid movie. I noticed that several reviewers gave this 5-stars; if I could have given this one MINUS 5-stars I would have. Don't waste 100 minutes of your life or a single penny on this.