If you like your Jane to look and sound like Jane, and not like some director's idea of the spirit of Jane, then this film is probably not for you. If, however, you revel in period films done with good production values, intelligent writing and acting, and if you don't mind some nudity and shock value that moves the whole work out of the family-viewing arena, then this film has much to reccomend it.

I mostly appreciated the way that this director/writer effort managed to transport elements of Austen's novel onto the screen, although they often appear tranformed as well as transported. Though this film lacks the polite-society feel of Austen as we have come to expect it from previous film versions of her novels, in purely literary terms it remains true to much of the themes and motives of the original. This version of Mansfield merely expresses them a bit differently.

On the other hand, there are some aspects of this adaptation that stole the enjoyment for me. The infamous slave-drawings scene, for instance, while it helps sympathize Tom's character (you get why he's drowning his pain and moral confusion in alchohol), creates a huge dichotomy in my mind over Fanny's eventual reconciliation and respect for her uncle. How is it possible that such a thoughtful girl as Fanny can learn respect for the monstrous, evil-minded man her uncle is in this adaptation? In addition, that horrifying scene, with Fanny poring over the agonized drawings Tom made of his father engaging in acts of brutality with the family slaves, felt a bit too much like the director was expressing an agenda. I can deal with tough stuff in a movie, if it serves the story well, but this just didn't.

Also, cousin Edmund lacks the motivations that in the novel, render his behavior understandable. Here, he comes off as a wispy stick-figure kind of guy. One has to wonder what her attraction to him could be. Their eventually coming together feels a bit too much like the characters themselves had access to the script and no choice but to follow it.

For me, the main thing this movie lacked was any genuinely likeable characters other than Fanny, and perhaps her sister. That is a wearying thing in a feature-length film.