Ok, as others have pointed out there is more than a passing similarity to 'Man Bites Dog', 'Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer' and indeed 'American Psycho' in this film. Additionally, as has likewise been noted, unless you are in the UK, preferably London, and have watched the film on a video tape rather than a DVD then the final 'scare' element is effectively nullified completely.

So, what we have at this point is a film that considers itself something different and probably just a little daring too. Well, as the list of films above indicates - it is not different, as for daring...not for me I'm afraid. It covers existing ground and sets out to do so in a 'look at me, I'm not your average run of the mill slasher flick, I'm highbrow'. Yet by the end there is the almost painfully formulaic and, based on the notes above about location and media, ultimately laughable final 'gotcha'.

However, the problems run a whole lot deeper than that. Our anti-hero 'Max' (if memory serves) is suggested to us on many occasions as being a psychopath (or sociopath or having an anti social disorder or whatever the fancy medical buzzword for it is at the moment). Repeatedly stating his lack of care for his murderous actions and their subsequent destructive consequences. I don't think there is any doubt that we are supposed to consider him as such (he also mentions serial killers on occasion and in general they have been found to be of a psycopathic nature) and herein lies the flaw. Just as the film itself doesn't quite know what it is - Highbrow moral tale / Brain out slash fest, original and daring / deeply influenced and predictable - neither does Max. There are a lot of pages out there on psycopathic behaviour (wikipedia has some good info) and the more I read the less it all tied up for me.

Max regales us with the tale of how he got started - he jumped off a bridge to save someone's life. Pardon? I'm sorry, was that our psychopath altruistically risking his own life to save another? While the psychopath may not care about himself or the consequences of his actions - even if they may bring injury to himself he surely cares nothing for others, especially someone he does not know. In addition, there is a recurring thread of Max challenging us to judge ourselves and not just him - it feels very much like he is trying to defend his actions and justify his behaviour. Again, these are not necessarily traits you would associate with the truly psychotic. In fact his whole plan for the movie and it's great(er) meaning doesn't really gel with the impulsive, non-goal oriented nature of the defined psychopath. Max plans and is aware of the need to 'mix it up', different methods, circumstances etc sometimes taking money to suggest theft as a motive. That way they can't build up a profile he tells us. (Planning! - not impulsive - he even states to his assistant that a certain potential victim would require a great deal of planning at one stage in the film.)

Furthermore, we are also supposed to believe that this has been going on, mostly, in a relatively small geographical area for quite some time. Numbers upwards of fifty are indicated. The only precautions we see Max take throughout any of the murders are the rubber gloves he wears. I find it impossible to believe that in over fifty murders (which in most cases must be unsolved - allowing for a few to be pinned on innocent people) in a relatively small area (towards the end it gets even smaller as it has to centre on the video shop) that there weren't links, evidence discovered at the scene - hair, clothing fibres etc. There were definite instances of struggle in many cases so the liklihood of him leaving evidence behind gets exponentially higher...but I'm boring myself now so I'm not even going to get into the briefly touched on childhood aspect that the film teases us with and then ignores.

In short I believe it is fair to judge this film in this way - it sets itself up in such a way that demands we do exactly that. It asks that we take it seriously and hold it up to it's own light. It fails and it does so quite spectacularly across the board. There are probably other areas that you could, as the saying goes, drive a bus through but I really didn't even dislike it enough to want to analyse it that much. It's just filed in the 'well there's another 90 minutes of my life I can't get back' category.