For anyone who is a fan of samurai films, wrenchingly emotional love stories, or just beautifully detailed animation, this film is highly recommended.  For fans of the "Rurouni Kenshin" series, this is essential viewing, as we see Kenshin's past and learn about how he came to be the man he is in the TV show, set ten years after the end of this film.
While the film is essential, I'm not sure that this version is really better than the earlier one. The "Director's Cut" combines all four episodes of this story, released earlier as two separate DVDs ("Trust" and "Betrayal").  The film has been letter-boxed for this edition, and there are some slight changes-- an added battle scene, bits of additional dialogue, etc. The biggest advantage of owning this version is being able to see the whole story without interruptions from credits or having to switch discs. 
At the same time, there are some things about the "Director's Cut" that are annoying.  First, ADV films chose to remove the option of watching the English dub of the film with the English subtitles on.  Granted, most people would chose either just the dub or the Japanese version with the subtitles, but keeping the subtitles on while watching the English dub can be helpful in showing additional detail about what's going on, and can point out where the English version changed things from the Japanese (which is occasionally important; in at least two scenes, characters give very different motivations for their actions in English and Japanese). 
ADV also chose to remove the extras which were present on the previous edition of this film-- the screenwriter's notes on the process of preparing the English edition, and a set of introductions to the historical characters in the film.  I don't understand why they took these features out; they were both interesting and useful for an audience which probably doesn't know a lot about nineteenth-century Japanese history.  Usually, one would expect a Director's Cut to have more extra features, not fewer.
Because this was done by a different studio than the one that did the English version of the TV show, there are also some historical details or references to things that are important for the TV show that don't show up here in the dubbing. The English version wasn't aimed at an audience that would already know the show, while the original Japanese version was.  Since this was done by a different studio, this also means that the English voice cast for "Samurai X--Trust and Betrayal" isn't the cast from the "Rurouni Kenshin" shows; this is only relevant for three characters, and is usually not too distracting.