My mother and I have a certain few chick flicks that, no matter what, whenever on is on TV we will stop and watch it.  The American President was one of them.  I must have seen it twenty times.  We loved it, and I considered it a truly great movie.

... then I grew up.  We watched it in my government class because our teacher was sick, and I noticed with horror... that this guy, the man we're supposed to be rooting for, is a Democrat!  He defends ACLU, he is for "gun control," he cavorts around with environmental lobbyists!  How can I root for someone who stands against all of my core beliefs?  Then, not only that, the guy who shares MY beliefs, the Republican, is totally demonized.  He is old and stodgy and Michael Douglas constantly makes fun of him.  Which, I guess looking back, is the good ol' liberal way of handling people who know what they're talking about.

And THEN there's the romance.  Now, okay, widower President dating is one thing.  But President putting off going to stop an airline strike to go buy flowers for his girlfriend?  President not doing ANYTHING to assure the public that their relationship would not affect anything he did?  President NEVER giving ANY addresses whatsoever, not even when freaking bombing Libya?  And not only this, but the girl he is seeing is a LOBBYIST (environmental too, BLECH).  Whenever his cabinet members were discussing important matters, all he would ask is things like "Do you think she likes me?"  He was more concerned with this hot redhead than matters of state.  Mr. President, what you do behind closed doors is your own business, but when you let it get you distracted when you are the leader of our FREAKING COUNTRY it gets a little out of hand.  Oh, and this girl burned the flag once.  Y'know, the American flag.  And Mr. Democrat President DEFENDS her.  We're supposed to sympathize with them.  I can't.  I tried, but I can't.  We're supposed to be like "OMG THOSE EVIL REPUBLICANS!  Yeah, why AREN'T you a member of the ACLU?  And why WON'T you support this ban on fossil fuels?  And WHY are you arming our druglords with your evil second amendment!  FOR SHAME!"  I don't know about you guys, but I just.. can't.

I'll miss this movie, I really will.  But maybe they should have tried less to force leftist ideals down my throat, and tried harder to win me over to the love story.  And maybe made the President seem a little more than a lovesick teenager.  Like when he asks his Sec of State who talked with Sydney on the phone: "Did she say anything about me?"  And, exasperated, he says "No, but I'll ask her before study hall!"  That sums up my feelings pretty well.

Good thing we didn't get to the ending where I'd have to hear his little self-righteous speech.  I probably would have thrown up.