I first saw this film when I was 19 and I became a fan of both Humphrey Bogart and James Cagney. While its debatable as to whom was the bigger star (both reached their apex by playing gangland antiheroes and were Oscar nominees during their careers), in this film, both men are at the top of their game. A modern day comparison might be the pairing of Pacino and DeNiro in 1995's Heat.

The Roaring 20's starts out in 1919 and George Hally (Bogart), Lloyd Hart (Jeffrey Lynn) and Eddie Bartlett (Cagney) are soldiers home from the war, all of whom are down on their luck, and are part of a generation of dreamers who want to make it big. After prohibition becomes the law of the land, Eddie (now a cab driver) is introduced into the bootlegging racket through Jean (Priscilla Lane), a nightclub singer who as a teenager was smitten with him. She introduces him to a bootlegger named Panama Smith (Gladys George).

Eddy, George and Lloyd meet up again, only now George is also into bootlegging and Lloyd is a lawyer.  They team up to form an illicit triumvirate operating a bootlegging empire. It doesn't take long before George begins emulating the ruthless manner of his rivals and predecessors, as the men in their line of work must operate. Because of a bad deal with George and the stock market crash, Eddie loses his money and is again down and out, but now he attempts to wash away his woes with booze.

By this time Jean has fallen for and married the more stable (and legally employed) Lloyd. At first Eddie is hurt by the news, but over time he realizes that Lloyd is good for her. However, George is now a kingpin in the bootlegging game, and he wants to murder Lloyd, who now works on the side of the law and knows the inner workings of his organization. Because he still has feelings for Jean, Eddie becomes engaged in a confrontation with George.

Crisp dialogue (for example, Eddie tells one rival before shooting him, "Here's one rap ya won't beat!") There are other great lines, including Panama's last line of the movie (which I won't give away). The movie is fast paced and makes the film seem shorter than its 106 minutes (I beieve this Warner Bros. version trimmed some scenes).

The Roaring 20's was released in 1939 and was no doubt lost in the shuffle when Academy Award nominations came out. The films that were nominated that year were Gone With the Wind (which won Best Picture, Director and Actress and Best Supporting Actress--Vivian Leigh and Hattie NcDaniel), Dark Victory, Love Affair, Mr. Smith Goes To Washington, Goodbye Mr. Chips (Robert Donat won Best Actor), Ninotchka, Of Mice and Men, Stagecoach (Thomas Mitchell won for Best Supporting Actor), The Wizard Of Oz, and Wuthering Heights. This is arguably the grandest year for filmsmaking.