This film is phenomenal.  Let me tell you why, in the best way I know how:
 **Personal Preface:  My brother Christopher has autism.  He was diagnosed with autism when he was four, and is now twenty-four.  In age, he is my older brother; in mentality I have been his older brother since I was 5.
  Growing up with Christopher has taught me many things about life-perspective and how some people see many things differently.  I am deeply saddened by the other reviews here slandering the film on the grounds that "it takes much more than love to get a girl through adolescence, and anything else in life."
  The Greeks labeled three kinds of love, Eros: passionate or sensual love, Phileao: love shared between close friends and family, and Agape: A transcendent, selfless love that neither wavers nor grows dim.  Unfortunately some people have never experienced all three of these types of love, nor do they know how to measure their efficacy.
  To my brother Christopher, all he does need is love, and literally as a high functioning person with autism, all he gives is love.  It's all he knows.  He loves life, cheeseburgers, music, church: simple things.
  As a certified assistant psychotherapist for the Lovaas firm of autism research, I also know that love, even as the popular definition as our culture knows it, is the most effective tool in helping both children and those with autism develop as functional human beings.
  My mother works with the career resource exchange in Colorado Springs.  In her case load has more than 30 different people with mental disabilities that she helps on a bi-weekly basis.  Even having an autistic child, she did not recognize Sean Penn until the movie was over.  Here's the kicker, Sean Penn is her favorite actor.  That is what kind of performance he gives.
  To both Roger Ebert, and the individual that quoted him: Ebert, everyone knew you as the bitter weird tub next to Siskel, grow up, and figure out that nobody like your pious pretension and aesthetic retardation.  In response to the pessimistic young man who quoted R.E. Mystery Log: befriend someone with downs, or Aspurgers, and figure out how their minds work, how their hearts talk, and then critique movies that you know nothing about.
  ***Movie Review:  Honestly Sean Penn's performance eclipses Dustin Hoffman's in Rain man, both for believability and accuracy.  You know how the Academy Awards operate; he was being rewarded for this performance this year.  Sean Penn's performance is nothing short of a cinematic miracle of epic proportions.  His behaviorisms, tics, antics, voice inflection, deliveries, the list just goes on and on.
  Two of the four actors that played his friends actually had the disabilities they were portraying, making authenticity something not to be questioned.
  The film raises a series on controversial questions about guardianship and family; the most controversial here being how certain demanding vocations can corrode your life, and your relationship with your family.  Michelle Pfeifer does an incredible job portraying the overworked mother, whose stresses at a six figure job causes dilapidations in her home life as well as work relations.
  The other amount of controversy can be attributed to the antagonizing of the state's District Attorney.  In most cases the state does do its job of properly assessing the abilities of caretakers of those mentally disabled, but there have been many cases where the state was incapable of demonstrating these abilities.  By no means does this movie mean to prove that this is unequivocally the lot of the courthouse, but it does illuminate infractions that are not unheard of in the courtroom.  
  This film has made me cry every time I see it.  I have seen it about eight times.  I don't cry because I am sad, or because I am over emotional, or because I am happy that small voices are being heard, I cry because I see the characters going through the same struggles I go through in my life, and overcome them with love and things we often forget.  This film is in my top 25 incredible movies list.  Five stars, highest recommendations.