I'm still trying to decide if I actually like this movie. Unlike a lot of people I really liked Reloaded. The martial arts were incredible, and I enjoyed the thinking parts too. But Revolutions doesn't bother with that.
The movie opens with some vague disscusions about love and other emotions but than forgets about what makes it "The Matrix". There is one fight scene in the Matrix that is okay. It's very similar to the lobby shoot out in the first movie, but not anywhere near as original. From there on out, almost all of the movie takes place in the machine world. This could be tolerable in a normal sci-fi movie, but this is the Matrix. The war in Zion becomes a very gorey and graphic Star Wars Episode 2. There is no Bullet Time in the real world, and everyone is using large explosives rather than graceful kung-fu. There are many horribly dissgusting deaths. Yes I know that the movie is rated R, but the other two were rated R and they were no where near this violent. The war comes out to this very hellish thing. It's not that fun to watch either.
Neo and Trinity take the Logos to the machine city, but on their way they have a bit of a run in with Bane/Smith. In the process Neo is blinded ,yet since he's the One, he can see some stuff (can anyone say Daredevil?). The fight between Neo and Smith is simply incredible. This is what started it all. Incredible one-on-one kung-fu insanity. Sadly, while it's the best part of the movie, it's also really short (just like the Yoda fight scene in Star Wars).
Now what's weird about this one is that even though it's supposed to be the second half of Reloaded, it has an entirely different tone. In Reloaded, Neo was a bad a--. In this one he looks like he is on the verge of tears through out the whole movie (that might be because he's realized that he's gonna die while saving the world). Reloaded was clean, and beautiful, Revolutions is grity and disgusting.
All that asside, this movie does what it was supposed to do. It ends the story very well, closing up pretty much all of the loose ends. Neo's determination is beautiful to watch. When it appears that he is down for the count and Smith walks around him taunting "Why do you continue to fight Mr. Anderson? What do you hope to accomplish? Is it love? peace? Why Mr. Anderson, why?" Neo responds with "Because I choose to." It's a truly beautiful scene to watch and makes this movie, the Matrix.
However there are some other things that develop into problems. The dialogue has been down graded from the Arcitecht's monologue to "Shoot them bastards". Revolutions loses the intelectual feel that all the others had.
One other big problem is the blatant Christian symbolism. When Neo dies a crusifix of light appears around him. The Wachowski's have been fairly original on everything else, why that?
Now should you watch it? If you're a hardcore Matrix fan than you've probably already seen it but if you haven't than go, it's worth it. If you're not a big Matrix fan than wait for the DVD. If your one of those people who is just looking for a huge war scene than wait for Return of the King.
Overall, good movie, but it should have been so much more.