No director I can think of ever used film to explore the moods and philosophical quandaries Tarkovsky does.  For me though, "Solaris" and "Stalker" remain the best expressions of his metaphysical vision.  "The Sacrifice" lends some of the most powerful visual effects from these earlier efforts to a gaggle of half-developed characters that never quite convinced me they deserved them. With the wonderful exception of the mysterious postman, Otto, the characters inhabit a muffled, haute-bourgeois world of spiritual angst and existential dread, with servants to clear the tea-things between musings.  Maybe Tarkovsky means to critique their privileged lives, but his sympathy for the main character, Alexander, is so clear as to make him seem like a stand-in for Tarkovsky himself.  Alexander's laments about our civilization's destructiveness, its violence against nature in search of a bland material comfort may very well be true, but as expressed in Alexander's monologues aren't they just a little . . . banal?  
What stands out for me most about the movie is the pregnant sense of possibility that Tarkovsky infuses into even the most ordinary scenes.  The glacial, almost imperceptible movements of the camera, the wind riffling through grass or shawls or curtains, the haunting vibration of glasses--all insinuate the presence, or maybe just the barest possibility, of something like God.  Part of the movie's point seems to be to make you feel the sterility of life without that presence; an 'eternal recurrence' like Otto mentions at the beginning, in which the sense that our routine lives are a waiting for something higher never lifts.  Tarkovsky's gift as a director is to communicate visually that this waiting might have a purpose after all.  He has an extraordinary ability to turn everyday objects--chairs, eggs, a glass of water, a bare tree--into potential symbols, teetering on the edge of a meaning that never quite resolves into view or, if it does, threatens to pass you by in your impatience for something louder and more conclusive.  The hand-washing ritual and 'levitating love scene' with Maria didn't carry the redemptive power for me that Tarkovsky seemed to intend.  Instead, what I'll remember most vividly is the long, dreamy black-and-white 'strip' with the crashed car that recurs in Alexander's memory as an image of the concentrated destruction and panic of the whole troubled century.  Tarkovsky's Russian sense of salvation is turned up to full wattage here in his last movie:  one must be as a child to enter the kingdom, the intellect must learn to bow down to the infant and simple serving-woman, etc.--themes announced clearly in the opening shot of Leonardo's painting.  But finally it was the bleakness and monochrome despair that hit me most forcefully.  The hope this time felt a little tacked on.  
Still, this movie is indispensable for an understanding of Tarkovsky.  It amplifies the images and ideas in his other movies and reveals them as parts of a haunting, brilliant whole.