Where do I start?

1. Shortest Bond film ever.  At 106 minutes, it is the second Bond movie to be less than 2 hours long, and is 13 minutes shorter than 1997's "Tomorrow Never Dies" which was short of 2 hours by only 1 minute.  Given how painful QoS was to watch, this is almost a point in its favor.

2. Confusing plot.  Three men wrote the script, and then a fourth was brought in.  A classic case of "too many chefs spoil the plot."  ;-)  Bond moves from encounter to encounter without much sign as to why.  I do not like movies that spell things out for me, as I usually figure them out myself just fine, but there is nothing to figure out here.

3. Shaky cam and fast cuts.  The scenes.  Move fast.  And the.  Camera cuts.  Quickly from.  One point.  To another.  (You get
the point.)  On top of the fast edits, the action scenes use hand-held cameras that are shaking a little *too* much to be natural.  Marc Forster clearly had some kind of "vision" for this movie that makes it literally painful to watch.  I have even tried to watch it from far back, and it's still hard to tell what's going on, especially in one scene (slight spoiler) where he ends up in a hand-to-hand fight with someone his build, height, and hair color/style!  The camera is jumping around so much and shaking when it isn't that you can't tell who is who!  (Spoiler end.)

4. Insulting plot.  This goes hand-in-hand with #2, but the point here is, in this movie that moves along with no point, it takes many, many nasty jabs at America and the CIA.  Only one CIA agent apparently has any integrity (guess who?) and the rest are all evil, evil, evil.  Yep, let's make the USA bad guys!  That seems to be vogue these days, sad to say...  I know Bond is British, but the producers *do* know who is the primary audience for these movies, don't they?...

In short, this movie lets down Bond fans on many, many levels.  But it does pick up almost to the minute from where Casino Royale leaves off, and we can presume that Skyfall will continue from where this movie leaves off.  Hopefully, that movie will be better!