As an enthusiast of both french modern cinema and twentieth century history, I went to see this film as soon as it was released in London. I had already read french reviews of the film, which were predominently positive, and was waiting eagerly to see it.  I was also looking forward to seeing this film as it was the first of its kind that explicitly attacked the Vatican for not condemning the Nazi atrocities that were occuring throughout Europe between 1939 and 1945.  Afterwards, however, I found myself leaving the cinema feeling less than satisfied with what I had just seen.  
The film focuses primarily on the development of the Nazi's 'Final Solution', and takes us through the course of Hitler's mass 'euthenasia' operations in the mid 1930's, to the construction of the mass murder machinery of KL Auschwitz-Birkenau.  As a means of informing the world of the exact details of the holocaust and the actions of its perpetrators, this film is (unlike the wide scale fictionisation of 'Schindler's List')remarkably accurate.  Whilst many might not appreciate a film which does not focus on the distress of the victims of the unforgivably harsh and sadistic SS officers, and that instead focusses dryly and specifically on the political situation at the time, I believe that an objective and informative film like 'Amen' had to be made.  
My main complaint is that the acting throughout was consistently wooden and unexpressive.  I was particularly disappointed with the performance of Matthieu Kassowitz, the man who masterfully played the main love interest in the amazing 'Amelie', who never really added anything to the role of the Jesuit Priest.  A minor problem that I also encountered was the fact that this film had been dubbed into English from its original French soundtrack. The voice overs do not add anything to the movie and, as this film probably won't be viewed by those opting for easy entertainment, I believe that this film only needed subtitles.  I would also put the weaknesses in the screenplay down to rash dubbing, and would prefer to view this film again in its original form.  
I believe that if you are a genuine enthusiast for this genre of film, then 'Amen' could make for good viewing, however the weaknesses of the film are at times crippling to its success, and are a terrible shame considering the richness and originality of its material.