Soldier is a superb installment in the fictional military genre, containing one of Russell's most impressive performances as an actor. A bust at the box office that cost $60M to make but brought in only $14M domestically, it was vilified by the critics (10% at Rotten Tomatoes) and received only a lukewarm reception by audiences.

A military program in the somewhat near future is established (no nationality is mentioned) to recruit and indoctrinate soldiers at birth rather than at the age of majority. This isn't the gritty and gutty military of Ridley Scott's Black Hawk Down (2002), but the glossy Hollywood military of Paul Verhoeven's Starship Troopers (1997). No surprise there as the choreography is done by David Tattersall, responsible for the gawd-awful choreography of Star Wars Episodes 1-3 (1999-2005), Speed Racer (2008), and Gulliver's Travels (2011), with a similar look and feel. Why is this a problem? Because Kurt Russell and supporting actors Connie Nielson (The Devil's Advocate, Gladiator, Basic), Sean Pertwee (Event Horizon, Formula 51), Jason Scott Lee (Born in East L.A., Timecop 2), and most of the bit characters are playing it super straight and intense. When the foppish Jason Isaacs (Harry Potter, Peter Pan, Abduction) strolls in as the critically important character Colonel Mekum, the movie never quite recovers from the dichotomy between the two very different acting styles, set within cartoonish visuals.

Isaacs plays Mekum in the same manner he did for the The Patriot's (2000) effete war criminal/British army officer Colonel Tavington. His over-the-top performance in the The Patriot was heavily criticized, particularly by Britons. His turn as Mekum is even more ridiculous, an effort of near-comedy apparently encouraged by director Paul Anderson (Resident Evil, Death Race). After the box office drubbing the studio took on Soldier, Anderson made sure not to make that mistake again and his later movies are as a result better and more successful.

Isaacs isn't the only casting blunder. Gary Busey (Lethal Weapon, Point Break, The Firm) was signed on for the project for the limited candlepower he could bring to the movie. He gamely takes on the role of Captain Church, the company commander of Russell's super soldier outfit. But he has no chemistry with Isaacs, and his performance falls flat. Miscasting doesn't stop there, with other odd choices peppered throughout, such as Paul Dillon (Natural Born Killers, Fight Club) as the comical Slade or Mark Bringelson (Lawnmower Man, Austin Powers) as the toady officer Rubrick. Economy might have has something to do with the casting, as many of the actors are more known for TV credits rather than the big screen, and it is clear a ton of money was spent on special effects, sets, stunts, and probably Russell's salary.

Mekum is the head of a new super-soldier program that genetically engineers its recruits rather than screening the naturally born children used for Church's company. Church's company and Mekum's company square off in a sort of competition to determine which program is to survive. After the deaths of several old-style soldiers and the defeat of Sergeant Todd (Russell--the head NCO of Church's company) by Private Caine, the most aggressive and ruthless of the new genetically engineered soldiers, Todd's body is discarded in cast into the rubbish. His comrades are reduced to being menials and Mekum takes over the super-soldier program.

Rather than being dropped into the nearest sun or jettisoned into space like one would expect, trash is hauled in this movie-verse to a suitable planet and dumped. Todd is dumped with it on a world designated Arcadia 234, a desolate orb that also happens to be inhabited by the crew and passengers of a colony ship that crashed several years prior. This self-indulgent act of eco-silliness on the part of the director or writer (or both) seems to have been also an attempt to justify the introduction of Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome-style (1985) sets that make use of the discarded detritus of all kinds. Not to mention to also act as a platform for the combat sequences that mostly consisted of explosions and various stuntmen hurling through the air, arms and legs flailing.

Even more remarkably, Mekum's command ship chooses Arcadia 234 out of the thousands of possible worlds in a particular sector of space to run training missions for his super-soldier company. The ship lands, Caine's comrades-in-arms are sent in to exterminate trespassers (the colony ship crash survivors), and Sergeant Todd redeems himself by exterminating the new super-soldiers and their officers, seizing the ship, and lifting the colonists to their original destination (the Trinity Moons).

Viewers who are ex-military will be somewhat annoyed by mistakes in mili-trivia, such as a buck sergeant acting as first sergeant or master sergeant, the rank-less formation of the genetically engineered soldiers (all are privates), a colonel acting as commander for a mere company (or possibly just a platoon) of soldiers, the rumpled civilian look of the officers (other than Colonel Mekum), and the sight of supposedly highly trained soldiers stalking around in the open without concealment or cover. Civilians won't likely notice any of this.

If the movie consisted of just these mistakes, the critics would have been justified in the venom they poured into reviews. Fortunately, none of the plot elements above are particularly relevant.

What is central to the screenplay is the evolution of Sergeant Todd from emotionless child soldier to experienced war veteran NCO rejected by the same military that created him. The loss of all he knows and understands, consisting largely of esprit de corps, combat, discipline, and death, runs headlong into the love, life, community, and nurturing held sacred by the shipwrecked colonists on Arcadia 234. His inability to cope leads to his banishment from the community to live in the wastelands as a hermit. But the arrival of Mekum's troops gives him an opportunity to learn that life is more than fear and discipline, and for the shipwrecked colonists to learn the value of including those that are willing to selflessly defend others at considerable risk to themselves.

The beautiful Connie Nielson is an enigma to Sergeant Todd, who's only exposure to the opposite sex is the occasional female officer (enlisted soldiers are all male). He is attracted to her, but does not know why. He is also grateful to her husband Pertwee for sponsoring his recovery from his injuries sustained in the contest against Caine, but is also stymied by the fact that Pertwee is a civilian, and as such does not understand the other man's motivation for helping him. Many of the colonists are children, and Todd is puzzled by their role, although he empathizes with them as he remembers his own stunted and warped upbringing. It is Nathan, Pertwee and Nielson's son in the movie that breaks through Todd's barriers and allows him to feel something other than just discipline and fear. Feelings like loyalty, love, empathy, and respect invade his consciousness and finally allow him to start evolving beyond the state in which his upringing and military training had artificially held him.

Anderson claims Soldier is an homage to Blade Runner, a sort of sidereal universe to that of the older movie. But other than the spinner (a type of police cruiser seen in Blade Runner) visible in a rubbish heap in one scene, I have no idea what he is talking about. Soldier scores more points for originality and interesting character development. With such promising material it is disappointing that the director's efforts fell so far short. But in terms of pure entertainment value, Soldier earns a medal for valorous conduct.