What is so amazing about the film is that it is ridiculously absurd while still accurately portraying the atmosphere of summer camp.  True summer camp, (i.e. not things like The Northwestern University Gifted Study Program, or the Meadowmount School of Music Camp) is a mixture of boredom, sexual activity (and frustration), occasional canoeing trips, weird mess hall staff, self-important teenage counselors... and bug repellant.
 However, what is so weird is that this movie was billed as a direct spoof of "Meatballs" and "Porky's."  The common argument is that those two movies were simply crass and vulgar to begin with and that this movie just adds more crass humor than ever before.  Salon.com critic Charles Taylor: "The movies "Wet Hot American Summer" is sending up were just as dumb and sex-obsessed as the movie contends. That's why the filmmakers have come up with some sort of muddled accomplishment: a spoof that manages to be even stupider than the pictures it's spoofing."
 If anything, this movie spoofs that entire era. I hate to use another quote, but Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly says it so much better than I can: "You may think you already know everything about the '70s and the '80s, but ''Wet Hot'' ... pinpoints that invisible tectonic moment when the one morphed into the other. It was an era, post-''Animal House'' and pre-MTV, caught between high times and ''Fast Times,'' disco fever and spring break, John Holmes and John Hughes, the fall of the shaggy sensitive guy and the rise of the moussed macho stud."
Its humor is much more varied than the humor of the aforementioned movies.  The budding "healthy" relationship between a freshly divorced staff member and one of her arts and crafts campers is so creepy that you can't help but laugh.  Sometimes the movie is just plain absurd, like when the Vietnam Vet Cook has a conversation with a can of mixed vegetables and ends up finding out something about his true self...  If you don't like that type of humor, there is always the extra soundtrack with added extra fart noises...  This is hysterical...