Upon first glance at Love Hina, you'll be amazed at the visual slendor of this series. Hina has beautiful, OVA-quality animation, on TV. You won't see TV animation quality this good except maybe in Cowboy Bebop and Escaflowne.
After an episode or two, you'll be hooked.  Just about every characters, including side-characters, are very likable, right down to the old gramps that make philosophical mumblings.  The show borrows many successful character formulas from other animes, but adds enough originality to make them stand-out on their own.  For example, Narusegawa (one of Keitarou, the male protagonist's two main love interests) is basically a nicer/warmer Asuka from Evangelion (w/ nearly identical face/hair + same seiyuu) and the director has a tendency to pose her for the camera like Belldandy from Ah! My Goddess.  Keitarou is, of course, a bit more geeky version of Keiichi from A!MG.
There are also several scenes throughout Hina that tastefully alludes to other animes.  Heck, Hina even has its own Pikachu (well, sorta).  Ph.D. candidate Seta is pretty much Fujisawa Sensei from El Hazard, but with (get a load of this...) Dragonball Z frenzied fighting style.  My words don't do him justice.  You must watch him in action, and you'll hurt from laughing from the Dragonball spoof episode.  Finally, my favorite... Motoko, the kendo girl.  You'll see her "succession techniques" resemble Kenshin's Hiten-Mitsurugi-Ryu in more ways than one.  They're just downright funny.
Anyway, the best part of the anime is probably its formulaic, but extremely well-done love story.  The nerdy guy w/ pretty girls motif is found in countless # of animes, but I've not seen it executed so wonderfully as in Love Hina since A!MG.  There's also a Spring and a X-Mas special that pretty much wraps up the love story between Narusegawa and Keitarou, and they're not to be missed.  If you're going to buy any anime this year, I'd suggest you put Love Hina at the top of your list, along with Kare Kano.