The movie began tragic and ended, not an inch more so, tragic. Basically, it is two hours of bad things happening to good people, not through a series of mischance, but simply because their lives are terrible and there's no possible way to get around it. The film was downright depressing with nothing of a therapeutic or cathartic effect. I say that because the characters go through no emotional development, or physical development for that matter, so that at the closing of the movie, you feel as if nothing has happened. Also, none of the characters are really likeable, and you can hardly summon up enough feeling to call it compassion. [I should also note right now that all the characters are male, save two females we only see at the corners of the still story and the still camera-just hardly there, beautiful and unattainable.]

But unlike most movies I've been watching on my dear IFC (which has run out of real independent films and are resorting to old Jennifer Lopez movies), this one is memorable. I say this because I know I will remember the details of Beijing Bicycle at age 72, when I very well will have forgotten the names of my very own grandchildren.

Alright, I just read some reviews of this film, reviews by non-asiatic, non-thirdworld people, probably the same people who guffawed in the most un-funny (pardon, no SAT vocab seems to come to mind) parts of Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, an altogether very un-funny movie. Ah, here's one: The story is about the incredible struggle for human dignity in the face of inhumanizing poverty. Mmm. Right. I would say that poverty is what makes us most human, and the comfy cushions we're living on right now make us damn near godly. An eminent critic awarded this film with the words "emotionally satisfying"-I interpret this as his way of saying it is excruciatingly painful to watch, being that pain can too be an emotion, and in that case, I can't disagree. Next: "there is no needless dialogue" meaning there is basically no dialogue-a few monologues here a few grunts there, all the while the camera never moves... sounding a bit like Zhang Yi Mou's work, no? But ha! It's not! The producer's name is actually Wang Xiao Shuai, which translates to Wang Little Hottie.

The acting is glorious, by the way.

Watching this film was analogous to watching The Passion, refreshing in a way that continually dangling your heart on a thinning string can be-which is definitely an experience worth having. so, if you see it in blockbuster, by all means, go for it.