An earlier reviewer hit the nail right on the head -- they almost had a really good movie.  The pieces were in place, but the screenwriters and director blew it.  What we got was a forgetable generic action-comedy.

Here are some things that could have been changed:

1.  Skips the oldies soundtrack and replace it with African chants and music (there's a lot of good stuff if you just look for it).  This would keep the audience in the Sahara rather than jolting them out of it.

2.  The humor and excitement from Indiana Jones is not one-liners from a sidekick, but rather is the ironic and unexpected, such as "There's a snake in the cockpit" to which the pilot replies "That's just my pet snake Reggie".  There were hints of this in Sahara, particularly with the truck bed, but not nearly enough.

3.  Do we really need Bond-like music during the boat action?  Why not try to create new theme music for this new character, who did have some potential to become a franchise character.

4.  There is no chemistry between the male and female character because of the sidekick.  Dump the sidekick earlier so there isn't a threesome.  Give the male and female character some time together (alone) and obstacles to overcome so that they can "bond".

5.  Having a soccer ball bounce into a cave is not archaeology.  Great scenes like consulting the ancient scrolls are wasted when they aren't followed up.

Here are some revisions to improve the story:

1.  Keep the sidekick on the main NUMA boat and use satellite phones and video to link him to the action.

2.  Keep NUMA and WHO apart longer.  Let the WHO doctors map the poisoned areas and wonder why that is, then let them contact NUMA for help.  The sidekick them matches satellite images of the ancient rivers with the poison spread pattern.  This in turn, leads to likely locations for the ship, which happens to be near the source of the poison, giving the main characters a common goal that let's them work together.  Then let them each use their own strengths to help each other out of tight situations.  (i.e. chemistry)

Ah, what could have been.......