The first time I saw this show I hated it. Absolutely hated it. I just saw another hollywood bastardization of the genre, complete with outlandish hollywood effects that are so far from reality that they are insulting--especially where they tried to tie the film to the Real World. A while later, I thought I may have judged the film too harshly the first time, so I watched it again. It wasn't any better. Then I read William Gibson's "Neuromancer", which was (and still is) a masterpiece of sci-fi and defined the new genre of cyberpunk. While I may cringe at the name of the genre, the book is amazing. Instead of an ivory-towered utopia, Gibson presents a dystopia thoroughly immersed in street technology, where the characters are hustlers, corporate gansters, and cybernetically enhanced assassins. Gibson's main character is a console jockey that accesses rich streams of data and sells his secrets in smoke-filled back rooms, beneath a neon sky. In our world, such a character would be a "cracker" (at least, to those learned enough to know), but in Gibson's world this is likely the place all real "hackers" would end up. When I watched the movie "Hackers" again, I finally got what they were trying to do, which was pay tribute to William Gibson. The biggest, baddest computer in the realm is the "Gibson". The completely unrealistic effects shown when they accessed this beast have strong parallels to the rich streams of data that Gibson describes. There was still the unholy matrimony of Real World and Movie World, but I could now forgive it. As far as rating this show goes, it really depends which camp you fall into as to how you rate this film. Here goes nothing: 5+ stars - if you're a script kiddie, wanna-be, hopeless tech-head, cult fan of this genre, or head-over-heels for Angelina Jolie. 4 stars - if you are one of those strange breed of hollywood that thinks all you need for a killer movie is to add over-the-top effects and a serious babe to a cheesy script. (Pay attention Mr. Woo.) 3 stars - if you don't know the difference between "risk" and "RISC" and frankly don't care. The soundtrack alone merits this rating. (And it is good, BTW.) 2 stars - if you ho-hummed through "The Matrix", you won't be thrilled about this one. 1 star - if you are a serious film critic, a foreign film enthusiast, a stooge for the MPAA/RIAA, or a barely simian president of a major democracy just looking for a good baseball game. -999 stars - if you really are a "hacker" and are tired seeing Hollywood's lame handling of technology and it's lamer attempts to cash in. and finally... 5 stars - if you always loved the music, recently read William Gibson, and are willing to forgive the ham-fisted depiction of h4x0rz showing off their sk1llz. It also helps if you think Angelina Jolie is a major-league babe (even if she is married to someone weirder than you).