I rented this movie with no advance knowledge of it -- hadn't read any reviews or talked to friends. Knew of Sally Potter's reputation as an original and interesting filmmaker. But having now seen the whole sad thing, I wonder what she really meant to accomplish. These wonderful, skilled actors -- Ricci, Turturro, Blanchett, Depp, Stanton -- are forced to work with almost nothing in the way of a script (or direction?). Ricci and Depp are the least fortunate, since they are given almost nothing to say, either to each other or their colleagues. They do great work with a handful of deep, "meaningful" glances at each other, etc., but we never really get to know them or develop sympathy for their characters. On the other hand, Turturro's opera divo gets to talk a lot, but it's all Standard Fascist Bigot Blather. You very soon want him to put a sock in it! Surely there's more to his character than that, and ditto for Cate Blanchett's Russian gold-digger.
I have to disagree strongly with the reviewers who praised this movie's historical verisimilitude. In the central, pre-WW2 Paris section, I felt that the general atmosphere (visuals), characters' behavior, sequence of events, and more did NOT create a convincing picture of that time or place. The principals seem to wander about lost in their own immediate concerns, completely unaware of the rise of French fascism, of the danger posed by Hitler, etc. Potter attempts to give us some sense of what is going on, with quick little tableaus showing innocent Jews being hauled off, property being burned. But these are handled in an almost abstract fashion, and it's hard to relate them to the love quadrangle.  Turturro's "prayer scene" on the eve of the German invasion is ludicrously unbelievable, as is the apparent ease with which Blanchett's character facilitates one of the last plot twists of the Paris episodes.
Two stars go for the cinematography (not the editing however) and especially for the effective use of music. Golijov's original score and also the opera arias, gypsy tunes, etc., make a very effective mix -- they provide almost the only atmosphere and emotional input in the whole movie.