When I first saw this film in the theater's I found myself neither hating nor overly thrilled about it.  Many people tend to lean either onw direction or another on the quality of this sequel, either they fully enjoyed it or they utterly despised it.  For me I think it is more of a clear sign of what can happen if an artist over extends themselves with multiple projects and loses focus through their work.
When planning out the next sequels to their first installment in there series, the Wakowski brothers wanted to try and incoporate the event into as many mediums as possible to try and accomplish a media event that was previously unheard of.  They attacked on all fronts via their website with information on the films as well as the short animes collected into The Animatrix, through short film releases of "Flight of the Osiris", and thorugh the video game forum with Enter the Matrix and were incharge and helped to write out much of the work for these collaborations wiht the other forums.  They tried to keep afloat of all of this while at the same time work on a film that had as its predicessor a film that with a detailed and well thought out approach to science fiction and action had gone on to entrench itself into the culture.  The main reason that the first Matrix film was so successful, however, was because of its characters and the action.  Neither were singled out over the other.  Neo, Morpheus, Trinity and the others exhibited real thoughts and emotions compared to their computer program counter parts that were trying to destroy them.  They made you feel the difference between both worlds and just what they were trying to fight and protect.  In the sequel, however, this feeling of danger and survival is lost.  Do not get me wrong, I actually enjoyed the script.  I felt that it was original and was presenting the audience with something that was clever, such as its notions of the role for the keymaker and the image of the architect that neo encounters by the end of the film.  All of these characters were new and vibrant images brought to the screen, yet the film itself did not capture the audience.  I feel that the problem for this lied in the actual tempo of the movie.  Nothing during the duration of the film seems to carry any feel of importance.  As the events occur you never actually find yourself caring for the characters as much as you did in the first film.  They seemed replaced by those for which they were fighting against in the first film.  All of the title roles seemed drained of their humanity as the events which we are supposed to feel should be dire for they could possible end the war between man and machine begin to unfold.  It almost seems as if the Wakowskis were more worried about accomplishing the biggest action sequences in film history rather than creating what could have been one of the greatest movie series in film history.  Instead we are given a average follow up to a far superior film that dealt with issues ranging from how do we know what we are really here to accomplish, knowing who we are selves really are, and the power that choice and the ability to make decisions for our actions is what makes us human and why we can not allow it to be obliterated.  Perhaps, however, with everything the Wakowski's were trying to accomplish they spread themselves to thin and that is what hurt Reloaded more than anything.  As I said before, their attention seemed to only lie more on their next big action scene rather than just what thier characters were conveying within the scene.  Of, at the same time, should we really accept such an excuse as the creators being pulled into many directions as an acceptable reason for loss of quality in work, especially with the amount of time they were being given to accomplish their tasks.  For in the end, what these movies should really be about is real world of humanity and why it is more important, or should be, than the sterilized world of the machines.  Neo and the rest should embark everything that makes us different and just what they are fighting for.  It shouldnot matter how many Agent Smith's he fights or how many cars our destroyed, it should only matter if we find ourselves caring about the characters and their fight for life.  I think this is the main problem and the fact that the Wakowski's forget when they put this film together, instead viaing for visual appeal over the mental.