This movie is watchable, and does contain some clever plot devices (the way Sean Connery uses the dead man to elicit witness cooperation is particularly engaging).  But on the whole, it just induces groans of incredulity, starting really when our last action heroes, in order to thwart *one* drug deal, enlist the help of an *army* of Canadian Mounties, giving rise to the clich&eacute;, "It would take an army of Canadian Mounties to...".  From there, this movie devolves into a mindless flick about gunslingers and explosions.  This would be fine if it were done honestly or well, but neither is the case.  First, billing a shoot-em-up action movie as a historical drama about interwar gangsterism in Chicago is a bait-and-switch, and profoundly disingenuous.  Next, the action is not of the vintage Harrison Ford variety, but of the cheesy Steven Seagal variety.  The characters are one-dimensional and have no motivation or distinctiveness other than being "good guys" or "bad guys". (This would be bad enough if they were *fictional* characters; it's a travesty with historical one.s)  The "good guys" perform absurdly impossible feats of battle that elicit ridicule from any reasonably discerning audience, such as single-handedly outgunning dozens of gangsters attacking simultaneously, Rambo-Style, (again, in a historical drama!) all to save one child from falling down the stairs in her stroller in the definitive act of perfect heroism (Elliott Ness!).  Such exploits are too farcical even for children's fiction, let alone historical fiction.  I have no problem with dramatic license, but this is like a Civil War movie where Ulysses S. Grant has X-Ray vision.

I may be naive, but I always thought that part of the fun of a historical drama was the depiction of life and times of the period, such as the challenging of clch&eacute;s, the filling in of little details, and the way they shoe those subtle ways in which that those times are the same, and yet different, from ours.  Compare this to a *good* DePalma film, Scarface, where you see background, demons, and drive of the main character, Tony Montana.  You see the web of politics and criminality that make a guy like Tony possible, and you sense the chilling irony upon Tony's realization that the world, the world that Tony would stop at nothing to own, was already owned and not for sale, and that he was nothing but a well-paid stooge.  All of this is *fiction*, but fiction accurately depicting and effectively engaging reality.  As opposed to the supposed story of the "real" Al Capone, which is nothing but a pointless, ridiculous fantasy.

And by the way, I rarely say this explicitly, but anyone giving this five stars has no idea of what they are talking about.