The River King is a passable evening's entertainment that merits a repeat viewing, provided your expectations are limited to one or more of the following: a "New England-y" movie with lots of New England-type (in reality, Halifax) snow scenes; remote, elite prep school movies and/or hazing films; murder mystery with vague sense of unease/discord.

Good acting will, however, be in short supply (that's right, I'm here speaking of...well, everyone except the British guy aka Julian Rhind-Hutt). Ditto on contiguous, well-integrated narrative lines and quality sound production (maybe it was the mics, but everyone sounds like they were recorded with a ten-dollar Radio Shack tape recorder).

I've not read The River King, but I have read two or three other Hoffman novels. She is not, for me, the best of contemporary writers, but she comes up with interesting stories with strong senses of place/setting (usually New England) and her polished style is rich in metaphor
and a northern (Anglo) version of magical-realism. Having read other of her works (and seen the very silly but fairly entertaining Practical Magic), I can say that her work appears difficult to translate to film. Here, for example, the tadpoles trope (which screams "Hoffman magical realism alert") was quite foolishly played with an emphasis on the realism rather than the magic.

Yet despite the expected pitfalls of Hoffman adaptation, the filmmakers could have done a better job with this project, perhaps by excising the face-in-the-photographs theme, which misleadingly promises a supernatural storyline. The only ghosts in this movie are psychological.

Ed Burns looks too much like Sean Hayes ("Will & Grace")for me to take him seriously as a self-contained, troubled cop. Plus, his reading of some of his lines causes me to seriously question how he ever made it big in movies. British actor Jamie King plays bad boyfriend Harry, and his lousy American accent mirrors his acting skills. Quebec-born Rachelle LeFevre is passable as the grieving best friend Carlin, and her lovely mane of red-gold curls distracts us enough that we don't really notice any faltering steps.

Half British-half American Jennifer Ehle pulls out the rusty American accent of her youth (it has been asserted she can slip in and out of equally perfect Yank and Brit accents at will), although Yank is in fact a misnomer; she "cayn't" help but speak in an odd corruption of her native North Carolinian twang.

The score is solid and offers and appropriate feeling of discord, with the best work--on what sounds like a mandolin or dulcimer--over the credits.

If you are interested primarily in "atmosphere" of the sort that suggests everyone is hiding a secret, and if you can tolerate uneven acting and a few poor accents, by all means, pick up the River King. Mostly, you will enjoy this provided your expectations are not high, especially due to the big-name actors.

I've watched it twice now and will likely pop it in again on a rainy Sunday when I am avoiding housework. Here's hoping you can find an equally good use for it.