i had no idea what to expect from this movie, other than it was an independent animated film from the 70s.  after watching it, i feel like i just witnessed someone's bad lsd trip.  the movie is wildly inconsistent and illogical, with shoddy animation, idiotic characters, and a story that makes no sense at all.

it is also a perfect example of how movie ratings have changed over the years.  it is rated pg, but if this movie was released today, it would probably be rated r.  it has over the top bloody violence, tons of weird nazi sybolism and references, some foul language, and even a stunning amount of sexuality.  most of the female characters have visibly erect nipples under their skimpy bikinis and gowns, and there are prostitutes and even an implication of sexual slavery.  the violence at times was about as graphic as the animated violence in the heavy metal movie, which was rated r.  and all the nazi symbolism (including prominent swaztikas in many scenes) feels incredibly inappropriate and unnecessary.  i don't think that animated films for children should shy away from adult themes, but this one goes way over the edge, and i would not recommend letting kids watch it.

i don't recommend letting adults watch it either, because the movie makes no sense and doesn't have a single redeeming quality.  the animation shifts wildly from saturday morning cartoon style, to sloppy rotoscoping, to more detailed drawing, but when added together the whole thing is a mess.  the plot jumps around with few transitions, except for the boring narrated interludes that were apparently used because the filmmakers didn't have the budget to animate those scenes.  even the music is bad, the soundtrack is composed of music better suited to a softcore porn movie.

the main character, avatar, is supposed to be a great wizard and lover of nature, but he displays almost none of that in the film, and instead comes across as an incompetent old grouch who does almost nothing intelligent the whole movie.  the bad guy, blackwolf, is actually a more sympathetic character, and all the supporting characters are so thinly characterized they almost don't exist.  the movie shifts from grim violence to silly humor almost within the same scene, creating a mismatched tone that winds up being neither funny nor dramatic, it's just a mess.  whatever themes the filmmakers were trying to get across to the audience (the nature of war?  nature versus technology?) are lost in the nonsensical plot, uneven animation, and terrible dialogue and characters.