After watching What lies Beneath, I started to imagine exactly how the "A-list" actors and directors became involved in this picture. This is a standard at best script and it was only made into a legitimate Hollywood film because of the people who put this together. I assume the producers of this film were looking to cash in very quickly on the recent supernatural film craze brought back to life by the The Sixth Sense, a more superior film, before the genre died out. They quickly found a script, the film's weakest point, and wanted big names to star and hopefully direct. Michelle Pfieffer has not been exactly a huge draw of late and she likely was looking for a project to help reestablish her name. She does well in the role and deservedly this should lead to more substantial roles in the future. Harrison Ford on the other hand, has been and always will be, an A-list star who has huge commercial appeal. Of late, however, he has strung together few less-than successful roles. With the failure of Random Hearts and to a lesser extent, Six Days, Seven Nights, he has been looking for a project much the same way as Pfieffer has. I believe Robert Zemeckes came aboard looking for a project to help fill the boredom between the shoot of Castaway, waiting for Tom Hanks to slim down. With these three players involved and the still fresh commercial appeal of the supernatural genre, it all equals to it's blockbuster success. Now down to the film itself. As stated before, what makes this film, is the actors and the direction. I would recommend not getting to engrossed into this picture, or you might set yourself up for a letdown. It's enternaining enough, but this movie became too "built-up" for me and a spent the entire time hoping for something on par with the Sixth Sense. Which it's sadly not. I'm not sure what everyone who saw this film in the theater was so blown away by, because it's not that great of a movie. For one final parting comment, not to spoil the ending but the character who turns out to be the villian, was not all that suprising and not all that believeable, due to the sudden change in theat character's demeanor. It's not shocking or an interesting twist, it's just out of place and almost laughable. Still, there are worse films to spend two hours with...