I did not expect greatness from this production. I doubted the director could have anything approaching Ang Lee's eye or the script writer such a flair for creative adaptation as Emma Thompson in the 1995 S&S. My expectations were modest. They were still disappointed.

My main problems were with characterization. Namely, that several characters were not what they should be. Too much Margaret. She is a very minor character, brought to life in Lee's production in a charming way, but here she takes a central and more vocal position. She is clever instead of charming, discerning instead of unwitting. The writers obviously did not understand that Margaret was not "out" in society. Well. I suppose we must content ourselves with the artistic vision of this girl as shrewd and worldly. Though I can't fathom what the purpose of making her a more central and shrewd character would be. Also, Edward was not in character, start to finish. Hard to see why he suits Elinor. Marianne was not a stunning beauty, was not passionate or forceful, had little grace and no emotive power. Sir John was well cast (he did not need to be so in cahoots with Mrs. Jennings in this production, though I missed that dynamic), but it could not have been clearer why Thompson cut his non-existent wife from her script. She added nothing to this production, certainly. Elinor had no character. At all. She was just kind of there. Apparently, practical and discerning with an almost flawless understanding doesn't sell as well as plain, little to say, and boring(?). The script did the character no favors, though the actress did what she could with the part.

One point of interest was Willoughby. On one hand, this Willoughby had no flair, little gallantry, and almost no physical presence. However, I thought that the choice to make Brandon call him out about his intentions was actually a pretty decent plot point. In a day and age where the sincerity of a man like Willoughby in his dealings with Marianne would be rigorously questioned, the plot point with Brandon served to shore up his honor and pride and make his good intentions believable, at least for the short time that they exist. However, the opening scene where he seduces Beth was incredibly unnecessary and a patently obvious attempt to raise the temperature of an Austen film. Talk about heavy-handed . . .

As for the rest of the production, it seemed to follow the tendency as of Patricia Rozema's Mansfield Park to make the life of Austen's characters both drab and dreary (contrary to the tone of Austen's books). Justified when showing Fanny Price's humble beginnings, I find such tactics needlessly artful in any other adaptation. This production was no exception.

To conclude, many of the scenes played too close to Lee's production. With all the liberties that Thompson's script took with the plot, that production was well adapted to the medium. This production? Well, no comparison really. Davies's version has no life in it.