Mulan II was mildly entertaining but it wasn't as artful, well-written, or authentic as the original. I was disappointed b/c the original Mulan is my all-time favorite Disney movie. The plot wasn't really suspensful--there was no major villain, so the story line had no real focus or direction.

The movie focused around the theme "your duty is to your heart", which is great.  But I wish that theme was balanced with the importance of responsibility to others and honoring your commitments. I also wish that the writers paid attention to the cultural context in which the movie takes place. Because of the lack of balance & lack of cultural awareness,the movie seemed baised against arrannged marriages.  In this politically correct era, this movie was dangerously close to offending cultures in which arranged marriage is widely accepted.

Some of the characters did not seem like themselves & weren't as realistic.  I admit that it's refreshing to see a favorite character reveal their inner feelings or a side of their personality you've never seen before. But, it can't be over the top.  For instance, in the original, Shang was the strong, capable, silent type. He was stoic but showed just a hint of vulnerability & caring.  Soo... why was he such a SPASTIC, INSECURE CORNBALL in the sequel???

I always like to see romantic tension, courtship, & the gradual development of a relationship in a movie. I wish I could've seen the romance between Mulan & Shang build up in this sequel, since it couldn't be the focus in the original. Instead, Mulan II BEGINS w/ their engagement, which I think is anti-climatic.  But that's only MY preference.

Despite the big let-downs, I did get a couple of laughs & some entertainment from the movie. I liked the attempt at teaching the importance of opposites working together, & there were some new characters that I thought were endearing.  The movie was OK for what it was, but I'm not compelled to watch it like the original.  Little kids would probably love this movie, since they probably won't be looking at all of these technical details.