This is a review on the series as a whole. Soul eater is one of the most over rated anime to come out in a while, while I watched it a few years back, I never thought it would go anywhere. Was I ever wrong. Honestly I have no idea what people see in this series. Other than the fact that it is nothing more than the same shonen shows we've seen before. Naruto, bleach, fairy tail, one piece heck even dragon ball z.

The animation of this series is not what was described to me as awesome. Rather, it is overtly simplistic, as if drawn from a 14 year old. Don't take my word for it, just pause it at any given scene/frame and take a look at there eyes, hair, clothes and background. What you'll notice is the lack of detail. They do however have an impressive amount of frame, while fighting anyways, so the combat is nice and fluid. The fight sequences are also well choreographed, making for some cool fight sequences. While many people hide the animation behind style, I personally didn't see it that way, if anything the style made it appear more cartoony than anything. For me animation is a bg thing, after all an anime is nothing more than hand drawn pictures moving at a frame rate over a background, with some cg of course. I appreciate animators who spend a lot of time and hard work on there projects, conversely I don't really care for show where the animations like. . . meh.

If your looking for a plot you'd best leave this series alone, as it isn't very deep (what shonen series is). There is a overarching story behind everything but its not very important, as you could start this series anywhere and not miss much, in the way of plot device anyway.

Characters, now I read a review that said this series has some of the best characters ever and all I can say is, no offense, but you should probably watch some other anime. As the characters are the most cookie cutter, cliches I have seen since harem style anime. Problem is, is that a lot of them aren't even likable, Black star anyways. maka, the lead character is alright but nothing new and towards the end she, of course rises to the situation with her (guts and courage) or something like that I guess. Out of all the characters in this series I found I only like death the kid and that sexy witch cat girl.

They do try something interesting, in that people have scythes that are also there partners. So are people scythes or are scythes people? I jest, but it is a fun idea, but also one Ive seen before in anime. Sacred blacksmith.

Ending thoughts, this series has some cool fighting and that's about it. there are other, better shonen series to watch, with much better characters and animation. This series just lacks any depth what so ever. So if you like something with some kind of plot, look else where. 52 episodes that could be condensed into a 12 ep series. Animation that while isn't bad, on a technical level is definitely not good, take a while to get used to, and characters that would allow me to feel no sympathy for if they died.