For those of us that actually remember The Cold War and fuel prices that were less than a dollar there was a great Tv Show called Doctor Who. It came from Great Britain and featured cheesy special effects and a constantly changing main character. Afterr a while, you got to know "The Doctor" and the world he lived in and if you were lucky enough to get it on local PBS stations it became a weekly ritual (and of course the marathons durring the Pledge Drives!)

Okay, maybe this is more me than everyone, but for those that were like me, you can relate. The show had a good run. It ran for over 25 seasons and featured seven Doctors as well as countless "Companions" (random people that hung out with him and mostly got into horrible situations that required rescuing). However, in 1988 it went away seemingly forever. There was an attempt to bring it back through a colaboration between the BBC and Fox Tv in the early 90's, but it really wasn't "series-worthy".

Now, let's fast forward ahead nearly one and a half decades and the show is back. There's another new Doctor and right off the bat he has a companion. But, this show is different. Instead of being made of episodes with 4-7 parts, it's done with a series of 45 minute self-contained episodes. The special effects are improved (although, still kinda' cheesy by American standards) and the writing's a lot better. The Doctor actually has more depth to his character and he and his companion, Rose, have more of a true friendship going. You actually care about these two. More than one episode left me in tears at the end (especially the season finale).

If you're a fan of the classic series or just someone that wants to see a good modern sci-fi-drama, this boxed set is for you.

But wait, there's more! Also included is a series of behind the scenes shows called "Doctor Who Confidential" hosted by Simon Pegg (Shaun of "Shaun of the Dead") giving lots of insight into the show (but, wait until you've watched all the episodes first! You don't want to spoil the fun)

It's worth the time and the money to get this great set.

-Ferret