Most of the reviews here come from such an diametrically opposite perspective to my own that I'm uncertain of what to write, but write I must.  What I will write is that I've seen young kids dealing with their sexuality and their parents, I've seen an 8 year old with an eating disorder, I grew up in an urban Southern California city with racial tensions part of the taste of the atmosphere, ... I will stop at this time for brevity.  For me what transpired in this movie while filled partially with fantastical tales is not that so far away from what I can relate to.

Would it have been better if the protagonist instead had unrequited love that didn't include vaginal intercourse?  I personally don't think so.  In fact it added quite an appreciated modern nuance to just this story.  Is sex gross?  Is it meant to be put on a pedestal and we are to forget how sexual transmitted diseases happen in our society, how marriages are broken, and how these images effect our children?  Anyone who thinks this is trite commentary on American culture is forgetting what it's like to grow up in this age.

There appear to be a number of criticisms in other reviews dealing with the seemingly care free manner in which ethnicity, sexuality is expressed or dealt with.  My only response is that I'm genuinely appreciative of a movie themed with the premise that regardless of the ills of this society there is a resolution that doesn't require a solicitous nature to truly "deal" with these issues .  In general life is not meant to be difficult, but in my perspective it is meant to be accepted for what it is, rather than what it is not.

So to express my distaste in such extreme reactions to this movie I will simply express observations.  There is still racial tension.  There is still a greater than 50% divorce rate in the US.  There are pretentious hypocritical fathers who have no right to effect their progeny in the way they do.  This movie is lighthearted, self consciously stereotypical but it isn't stupid.  It is jocular but it isn't devoid of sincere content.

People are so keen on criticizing what is superficially obscene without a desire to look one step further.  Note this is also a comedy and so the message comes in the farcical, and for such a movie it does a very good job.