The Lucas name is associated most with Star Wars, of course, but his output before that film (THX-1138 (1971) and American Graffiti (1973)) deserves scrutiny and praise.  This film does a remarkable job of creating a complete, detailed world that is stark and frightening.  
Technically, Lucas does some wonderful things on a small budget.  To me, the highlight of this film is the sound.  In all of his films Lucas does a remarkable job of creating a soundscape that, combined with the visuals, makes for an immersion in a mini-world.  It is highlighted in different parts of each film.  Here, in THX-1138, the squawking, in-and-out-distortion of the radio voices as Duvall performs his daily work sounds so busy that we believe Lucas dreamed up another language and knows how to speak it.  (Indeed, he painstakingly made sure that all of the robot sounds in Star Wars were distinct so that they indeed sounded like languages.)  In American Graffiti, the period music combined with the purr of the classic car engines creates another world that the characters inhabit within the small town.  And in Star Wars, the sound highlight for me has always been the final attack on the Death Star.  The sounds of the pilots communicating with each other and with the rebel base is complex and immerses the viewer in the attack, making him live it.  
Fans of Star Wars as well as fans of intelligent, thinking science fiction should watch this film closely.  While it may appear a bit slow upon first viewing, it's pace suits the story and the visuals.  Fans of Tarkovsky will certainly appreciate.  Many may think that Lucas is a commercial and marketing genius only.  However, both THX and American Graffiti firmly indicate that he has tendencies toward the avant garde (he was an avant garde filmmaker at USC) and art film (certainly American Graffiti).  Aside from the Star Wars franchise, I would love to see a return to this mode from him in the creation of a mature study of characters in another one of his worlds-within-a-world.  
As for the film format, the VHS of this film is fine.  But the main question is, when is the DVD planned?  This film certainly warrants a deluxe release.  I would love to hear a remastered soundtrack, as well as some director audio commentary and any behind-the-scenes or deleted material.  A proper DVD release of this on a surround sound home theater system (or in theaters with THX sound(!)) would be very welcome by fans.