Most of the summaries that I have seen regarding this anime go something like this when talking about the main character; Sawa appears to be an attractive, innocent, and naivee college student on the surface but is a  cold-blooded killer.  So when I bought this tape I was expecting to see a  story about a professional assassin with the perfect cover.  This however  is not the case.  Sawa is by no stretch of the imagination any kind of  professional assassin.  She is instead an extremely lucky, clumsy amateur  assassin.  I say amateur because her technique is sloopy, she made several  stupid mistakes when it came to attempting to assassinate a target, and I  do not honestly believe that she had the kind of skills need to prevent the  sort of injuries that she recieved from her carelessness.  The mistakes  that she made was leaving traceable evidence, and letting her guard down  way to easy.  What kind of assassin is really that careless?  Maybe I  should really say a good assassin wouldn't be that careless.
I was also  expecting Sawa to be one touch chick (like Angel from Angel Cop), but she  wasn't tough at all.  She was instead a naivee, dependent, sad, abused  little girl trapped inside of a woman's body.  I felt really sorry for her.  The other assassin that she met seemed to have a much better technique and  better skills.  But he also had his share of flaws, because just like Sawa  he was naivee, and let his guard down way too easy for someone in his  profession.  I hear that this movie has been cut.  I would like to see what  they took out just so I'd experience the anime the way that the creator had  intended.
The action sequences weren't all that great, but then again  most Japanime action stuff involving guns (such as Cop stuff, assassin  stuff) can't even begin to touch live action American movies of the same  nature.  So I think that this is important to keep in mind when viewing  this.  Also one of the action sequences was so far beyond the realm of  believeablity that it takes away part of the seriousness needed in a film  of this nature.