This movie has been called "wonderful" and "a great sc-fi movie for the modern times". Anyone who said that is obviously under some sort of trance or perhaps on drugs. This movie, at the most, is a "B" class flik with absolutely no plot and little acting ability. They could have at least made the movie make sense to make up for its horrible acting and scripting but no, it is incoherent dribble. For one thing, it takes place in 4 DAYS! All of that takes place in four days. What? Second of all, how young is that president? You have to be over thirty to be a president and he looks to be thirty at the oldest, possibly younger.
  I also noticed that logistics played no part in the making of this movie. The directors said, "We want him to be in a desert." So they put him in huge desert, where there isn't one in real life! Then there's the whole thing about them just saying, "Anyone who can fly or, heck, as even looked at a plane, come over here  and we'll give you some top of the line jets to use." but don't get me started. Plus there is the scene where the city gets hit and the lady hides in a small room right next to where the flames are coming and doesn't even get first degree burns.
  As for the acting, it is abysmal. But perhaps that's just because it is a horrible plot with crummy dialogue. They throw in mediocre jokes that are repetetive and stupid to begin with.
  Finally, the ending doesn't even makes sense. Even if they did destroy the aliens, they still have radiation in the atmosphere and all of their major cities have been wiped out. What will they do about the economy? Luckily, they don't have to worry about it because they'll all be dead from radiation sickness in a few days anyway.
  SO, in closing, I agree with everyone else who has given this a bad review and I pity the one person who said that they've seen it twelve times. You poor, disturbed man. It is the worst movie ever created that I have seen (besides "Glen or Glenda", I also pity anyone who has actually seen that). Do not buy or rent this movie, unless you enjoying laughing and making fun of movies. Instead you could just go stab yourself with hot fire pokers or possibly light your hair on fire or something equally enjoyable, you'd have as much fun as if you saw this movie.