I have watched this movie probably 25 times.  It never ceases to move me.  Move me to the point of tears.  It is sad and beautiful. The acting is incredible.  The art direction is flawless.  Steven Spielberg translated Alice Walker's novel in a tender and respectful manner.  It is difficult to watch.  Absolutely.  But this is written about black women from a different era than our own.  This is written from the perspective of our lead character, Celie. Celie did not have a good life.  Should Alice Walker have censored herself when she created the unsympathetic black male characters? She is a genius. I certainly wouldn't presume to dictate what a literary genius should and shouldn't write about.  If you watch the movie from a perspective of wanting to better understand how life was experienced for some (ok, not all, but this is Celie's life) black women during that time period then watch it.  Cry. Empathize. Understand. Grow.  Are all German's Nazi's? Are all Native Americans drunks? Are all Polish people stupid? Insert ethnicity here..... No. Were all black men of that era bad? Of course not! One must assume a certain amount of intelligence on the part of the viewer to understand that this was an interpretation of a brilliant novel.  Do you have to like every black character that is protrayed on screen? Why? Life for Celie wasn't rosy. This was HER life. Creativity springs from the artist's imagination and inspiration I believe at times, from God.  The artists here, Alice Walker, Steven Spielberg, Whoopi Goldberg and Oprah Winfrey (I could go on to name the entire cast because they are all wonderful in this) do their finest work.  Who am I to criticize the work of these artists? Who is anyone to do so? Writing a book, creating a movie, is personal.  I suppose by its very creation it puts itself out there to be criticized but think hard before you do. If the movie does not move you maybe the artist's point is being missed.  The blind eye sees only the stereotypes and condemns them and the movie with it.  That is rather sad.  This movie/book is deeper than a stereotype.  Even though the characters are fictional, it felt as if I were being allowed to share something very private and personal.  The movie changed me and brought me a deeper insight into so many issues.  This was what life was like for the character Celie. These are the men she experienced in her life.  Many of the characters are flawed. They are HUMAN. There is redemption for many of the characters.  Celie's husband,"Mister", grows incredibly by the end of the film as does Shug's father.  That is the beautiful part.  Yes, this is a film about a black experience. But jerks, drunks, loose women, etc. come in every color unfortunately and there is usually a history that brings a person to turn out less-than-stellar. And the white characters?? Why, there is hardly a sympathetic one in the lot!!Why shy away from this when there is a deeper more uplifting story to tell?  I thank Alice Walker for writing this book.  I thank Steven Spielberg for making this movie.  It changed me, I think for the better, by having been created.