Dream House

A decent thriller with a superb cast, 'Dream House' will interest the viewer until the final 15 minutes. The big problem is that the production rushes the ending and the observant viewer will feel that something is missing; a transition sequence that brings the viewer and the main character into the action of the final scenes. I felt that there must have been more scenes written for Jane Alexander's character that would have offered the bridge scenes necessary to allow the audience to absorb the direction that the plot was heading. To understand what I am getting at, watch a similar film directed by one of our greatest directors; Martin Scorsese, titled 'Shutter Island'. I do not want to reveal the plot of 'Dream House', but if you watch 'Shutter Island, particularly, the last 15 minutes, you will understand what I mean.

In any case. perhaps I have watched too many movies or perhaps my subconscious remembered the preview trailer, because I got the gist of the plot after watching the first 5 minutes. There was something off about the opening sequences that I noticed immediately and this was confirmed after watching the first scenes with the family and I began to compare it to an older film that starred Nicole Kidman. You probably know the one I mean.

Still, 'Dream House' is a good film that deserved a better critical reception than it got during it's original release. It is a minor effort by a very good director, Jim Sheridan. I do not know why he choose the direction that the plot unfolds before us. It is lame and easily guessed from the beginning. It would have been a much better film if the audience was in on the main plot points from the start of the film (I understand that the preview trailer revealed it anyway) and that the viewer  knew the basic plot line that the main character was so clueless about. It would have made a better film if the audience became engrossed in Daniel Craig's character discovery about the truth about his past and his delusions. And it would have eliminated the need to have other secondary characters speak dialogue and take actions that make absolutely no sense. For this reason, the film might be better if you watched it a second time.