What a great idea to try to recapture on film, the Manchester music scene during the late 1970s to early 90s. Also called the "Madchester" music scene, it witnessed the birth of punk and the death of acid house. At the top of the music revolution, a philosophical tone presented itself; a sort of "music existentialism" one might say. Inspired by both the Situationist International and the art of Andy Warhol, a bored TV journalist named Tony Wilson, created Factory Records after catching one of the first Sex Pistols concerts. The company's philosophy centered more on partying than actually working. Their mode of operation in the style of total anarchy; no rules, no organization and no real desire to launch new careers or make money. What a great concept and subject for a movie! The talented Winterbottom attempts to fill the shoes of his characters, thus adapting his filmmaking to "Factory Records standards." He shot the film on digital video, his actors equipped with radio mics. Their dialogue is mostly improvisation as they find their way through the scenes, and the credits are so cryptic and psychedelic, they are virtually unreadable. Well, guess what? Manchester is not "Madchester" anymore, the Sex Pistols are gone, and film is not the medium for a musical "improv." Music back then had something to say or to scream rather, about life, the world, or better yet, how to approach both life and music. Winterbottom doesn't appear to have anything at all to say about this subject, not even through his characters. Wilson (the real one) confesses that he has "no talent but to hang out with geniuses," and we feel it throughout the film. His character starts out as a bored journalist, and remains a boring music promoter. Wilson also says he tried to convince the filmmakers to make the film about the real geniuses, the musicians, but that they refused. Big mistake, because all this energy, passion and philosophy of life doesn't come through in the film, making it...well, boring. Even the idea of "people partying for 24 hours" is absent. The music was intellectual and emotional. The film is neither, leaving us cold and numb...