Everyone's got there own little theories on this movie as you'll see. I believe mine is correct. First off you'll note the main colors in the movie were red and blue. Couple that with all the white women and guess what you have? You guessed it: red white and blue or the USA. You'll note the rampant sex and lack of responsibility the little girl had? She's the UK's view of the USA personified. The clincher was how they just walked out in the open, buried a body IN THE BACKYARD, and then called the yardman over the next day to CUT THE GRASS!!! As if to say, "HA! Screw you; we do what we want and there's nothing you can do about it! Piss on all you!!!" (Political reference.) The yardman symbolized the American people: distracted and titilated by all the flashy terms and sights thrown around (a naked Sarah). Furthermore...
... Just kidding. If you've heard theories on this film let me tell you one thing you can believe: the person relating it was a pompous moron too embarrassed to admit that they, like you and everyone else, had no freaking clue what the hell this movie was about. Either that or they were even more egotistical and out of touch with reality to think that their baseless, crackpot theory was actually correct. Proof is in the number of theories about this movie (none of which agree mind you). I've seen one really good review of this movie. It said: "What the...??!!!" and that was it. Accurate and to the point. This movie made no sense. None. Zip. Nada.
Now some people get off on all that "Wow, it was soooo great because it left more questions than answers" thing, and that's all fine and good. (To be honest, this movie answered no questions but did in fact raise one every two seconds.) I personally see that as plain laziness and/or incompetence (and/or evidence of insanity and/or narcotics). Anyone with half a brain can create a film that leaves viewers going "Wha'...???" I could whip one out in five minutes if you'd all go see it and pay me for it. So, pardon me if I have no taste and don't go all fanboy over this piece of "film".