This is a dreadful film. There are the obvious points of shoddy performances, disconnected plot lines and poor editing. But beyond that is the complete lack of any attempt whatsoever to portray a historical event in any degree of accuracy whatsoever and that is the only thing it achieves completely. The credits state "Suggested by Cheyenne Autumn" by Marie Sandoz.  No doubt a disclaimer as the movie, although it bears the same name and purports to depict the same events, as this excellent and accurate historical novel, cannot claim to be either excellent or accurate. As I watched I was stunned by the incredible laziness of the entire process.

Filmed entirely in Monument Valley, I assume because it was easy and comfortable and made it "John Ford" worthy, the movie pretends to depict events that took place in surroundings that bore no resemblance either visually or geographically to that area. Using Navajo people cast as Cheyennes and the Navajo language instead of Cheyenne or simply English, which at least would be honest, Ford casts into the dirt his own assertion that he had made the movie as some sort of bizarre recompense for his depiction of Native Americans in his previous films. And of course, as always and continuing into this era we have the "white savior". In this case Richard Widmark and even more absurdly, Carrol Baker. I assure you there were no white saviors during the events that took place.

I think what is really most remarkable but is the most honest thing in the movie - honest in the admission of what a truly cynical piece of film-making this is - is the next to last scene showing the Cheyenne reunited in "the Cave of Victory" rather than the reality of the soldiers tracking the escapees throughout the night shooting them down as they ran and then finally the next day trapping them in basically a deep hole in the ground and firing into it until everyone was dead, mostly women and children. There were other survivors, but not many so there was never the grand union at the "Cave of Victory".  Buy hey, if you can end a movie with everyone having a cigar, as would John Ford then what's not to like.  This is bad, and unforgivably lazy film making. And yes of course it's racist.

The real story, or the book "Cheyenne Autumn" by Marie Sandoz, who actually knew some of the Native Americans from the event itself and grew up with Native Americans during her childhood in Nebraska, is much more remarkable and honest and it doesn't sentimentalize the Native Americans or demonize the Whites, it just tells the story, which is what this movie should have done.