Perhaps it is becoming more and more evident that Will Ferrell is far better cast as a cameo appearance actor. Though he tends to be quit humorous in roles where he is not the lead actor, it is when the weight of the success of the film is in Ferrell's shoulders that he seems to falter time and time again. One really not need look any further than Taladega Nights to realize this but if that is not enough proof to support the hypothesis for you, then check out Semi-Pro.

Directed by Kent Alterman and written by Scot Armstrong, Semi-Pro is a rather lackluster comedy film that nails stupidity quite well but falls short in providing any real comedy throughout the entire film. There are merely a glimmer of comedy spread here and there throughout the film but the movie really seems to be a lot of tired old Will Ferrell jokes and humor.

Jackie Moon (Will Ferrell) is the owner-coach-player of the American Basketball Association's team the Flint Michigan Tropics. Moon, a sultry R&B artist known best for his song "Love Me Sexy" is equally as good at being an owner, a coach and a player on a professional ABA team, and that does not say much. His basketball prowess focuses on catch and pass time and time again and his coaching and ownership stake is more focused on coming up with witty pre-game introductions than it is on running a basketball program.

Andre Benjamin (of Outkast fame) plays the part of Clarence, perhaps one of the finest players on the Tropics squad. However, his skills being so far above some of the others on the Tropics also makes him the constant prized possession of so many other basketball teams. Though Clarence does change his name in the film to Coffee Black, there is nothing really all that strong about the peformance that Benjamin puts into the film.

The diamond in the rough for this film is the character of Ed Monix played by Woody Harrelson. Harrelson plays the part of a washed up former NBA player whose stints included spending significant time for several clubs on the court, but mostly on the bench. If it were not for Harrelson's performance in this film the entire movie would have needed to have been scrapped.

When the ABA decides that they are going to downsize and fold the remaining teams into the NBA, the owners need to come up with some sort of way to determine which teams will be on the chopping block and which will make it to the big time. The ultimate decision that was rendered now leaves the Flint Michigan Tropics fighting for a chance to make it into the big scene.

Moon decides that since his playing is certainly not going to launch him into the NBA that perhaps he can reinvigorate the fan base in Flint by a series of stupid entertainment promotions. Not only are Moon's ideas quite cheesy, but the fact that the viewer is subjected to have to sit there and watch his ideas come to life on screen is just as cheesy on the part of the writer and director.

Though when Will Ferrell is involved you are not expecting the most cinematographic piece of excellence, Semi-Pro does not even deserve to be called a minor league film. Just as the Flint Michigan Tropics were never going to make it in the basketball world, this film is never going to be thought of as being anything close to quality and in fact is not even really worth watching at all.

Almost as bad as the Boston Celtics were the year before their NBA Championship season this year, Semi-Pro is nothing more than a bunch of air balls and bricks and Semi-Pro ends up the loser.