What I think we have to keep in mind with 'The Muppets' is looking at it in the context of its story.  This is the only Muppet movie I've seen that actually explicitly acknowledges 'The Muppet Show.'  To make this movie's story work in your mind, you have to imagine that the Disney-era Muppet films ('Muppet Treasure Island', 'Muppet Christmas Carol', etc.) don't exist.  The story is that, sometime after 'The Muppets Take Manhattan' (1984), the Muppets stopped.  So Walter, Gary, and Mary are trying to get the 'Muppet Show' era folks back together, as if they've been away for almost 30 years.  Hence why we don't see characters like Rizzo and more recent Muppet creations all that much (except in passing), and we really see characters we haven't seen in years!  Beauregard, Crazy Harry, Wayne and Wanda, Dr. Strangepork, the guy who hits the talking fuzzy head things with a mallet (name escapes me), etc.

It's also told from the point of view of the fans - something that has, again, not been featured in a lot of Muppet films.  Most of the films involve the Muppets dropped into a pre-existing story as characters (Kermit as a sea captain or Statler & Waldorf as the Marley Bros.).  This film talks about the Muppets as "The Muppets", like a band we all used to love that we'd love to see get back together.  If you walk into the movie with this in your mind, a lot of the comparisons folks have brought up won't bother you.

People have criticized the story as weak compared to the other films, but again, keep it in perspective.  'Treasure Island' and 'Christmas Carol' were classic stories in their own right with Muppets acting the roles.  The earliest Muppet movies had a magical cast of characters and storytellers (Jim Henson, Frank Oz, etc.) that you just can't replicate.  Don't get me wrong - the current crop of Muppeteers do a fantastic job, but if you're a diehard "Henson-era Kermit" kind of fan, it's illogical and unrealistic to think that things in this movie will be 100% the same as they were in the '70s.  And who says the Muppets always have to be really deep, thought provoking, or ironic?  Why can't they just be funny and goofy and make us laugh?

What the movie did for me was remind me of my childhood and watching the Muppets through my child's eye.  I loved them as a kid because they were cute and funny and cuddly.  I didn't realize until I was older just how clever and sly their humor was too.  This movie tries to do both things - hit the cleverness of the Muppets we appreciate as adults while reminding us why we fell in love with them in the first place as children.  From that perspective, this movie is a great delight for me.