I was in Lebanon for a week and was extremely surprised to find the Sleeping Beauty DVD in their Virgin Megastore, though the cover was in French, the employees there assured me it was in English too. 
The box is beautiful all in purple feautring the classic kiss scene with the transparent head of Maleficent over them. it's a gorgeous matt box that's open from the right.
All the contents of the DVD is written on the back (in french sadly). Through the pocket you pull out the 2 DVD envelope case (like the EU Harry Potter DVD), the DVDs looks gorgeous and full of color. It also includes a shett of the scene numbers.
The first DVD before anything asked if I wanted to watch the whole DVD in english or french- which i found delightful since I've never seen this in any DVD- and everyhting from menu to little details was in english. 
It contains the movie, making of feature, rescue Aurora game & a coloring book. The back of the DVD states there's also a special episode of Art Attack about making Sleeping Beauty's castle- sadly I didn't find this on the disk, so I don't know if this is a Hidden Feature. I tried to look for it but couldn't find it. One this is for sure, it's not on DVD 2. Interesting!
Disk 2 was a disappointment since the menus are in french so I didn't know what was going on, and sadly even some of the videos were dubbed French over the english track, which is very annoying and unprofessional. And the features that actually were in English had large french subtitles, and there's is no option for not viewing subtitles. I must admit that the french menus are a turn off, so sadly I lost all anticipation to watch the special features that i eagerly awaited.
One very important note, the DVD menus and Design is STUNNIG, the menus are made like old manuscripts and it's gorgeous. A very big shock is that this DVD is not released as a part of the "platinum collection" like Snow White & Beauty and the Beast, yet production wise, the cover, package, disk and menu designs surpass both Special Edition DVDs by a hundred mile.
the only reason I'm writing this review is because I couldn't find any information about this DVD anywhere (even on Disney.com) and I thought Fans of this movie would love to know what they're getting. If you need any scans of screen shots of this DVD please feel free to contact me.