In late 1976-early 1977 two films opened that involved terrorist threats at the NFL Super Bowl--Paramount's "Black Sunday" and Universal's "Two-Minute Warning." Of the two, take my advice and buy "Black Sunday." Directed by legendary filmmaker John Frankenheimer, it is a superior, sweat-inducing suspense thriller based on the Thomas Harris novel about a terrorist attack involving the Goodyear Blimp and football's biggest game. And considering the reality of today, it is as relevant and scary as ever. Under all circumstances, skip "Two-Minute Warning," a cheap, cheezy, exploitative piece of sleaze from Universal's 1970's assembly line of all-star disaster atrocities, which stars Charlton Heston, who evidently made this one instead of "Jaws" and "The Omen"! No wonder his once storied career would essentially be over just three years later.

 I won't go into details about how bad this film is. Just consider the following: in the very first scene, a sniper takes target practice by blowing away a bicyclist in West Los Angeles. He shoots from a nearby hotel, across the 405 freeway into a quiet neighborhood on a Sunday morning. Nobody hears or sees him. Not even anybody in the hotel, including the maid who is working in the hallway just outside his room. Also, Universal evidently didn't want to pay the NFL for rights to its logo or the Super Bowl or team names. So the game in question isn't called the Super Bowl but "Championship X." And while the teams playing are from Baltimore and Los Angeles, they are not the Colts or the Rams. Actually, we never know their names.

 Then there's this classic scene between Police Capt. Heston and flaky SWAT sergeant John Cassavetes: When discussing what to do about the sniper, Cassavetes wants to do the logical thing and take him out but Heston has a better idea. They'll evacuate the entire Los Angeles Coliseum without the sniper noticing. Honest!

 I can go on and on, but the logic goes downhill from there. How about the subplot with the father (Beau Bridges) of two young boys who is the only spectator in the entire Coliseum who sees the sniper? (He's evidently the only one with eyes.) Does he do the logical thing and remove his wife and kids from the line of fire until he finds out what's going on? Of course not. He tells them to stay in their seats while he investigates. And how about the scene where the sniper takes out a SWAT officer who has positioned himself in a light tower? The officer falls and hangs behind thousands of spectators for a full ten minutes of screen time before anybody in the stadium notices.

 Then there's the depressing sight of an all-star cast (including, remarkably, some good and recognizable actors) strategically positioned throughout the Coliseum and given nothing to do but sit around like ducks in a shooting gallery.

 David Janssen and Gena Rowlands as a bickering couple from Baltimore; Marilyn Hassett and David Groh flirting with each other like customers in a singles bar; Martin Balsam as the Coliseum manager looking like a deer-in-the-headlights; Mitchell Ryan as a football-loving priest; and Jack Klugman as a sleazy gambler who'll be killed if L.A. doesn't win the game. But nothing is as sad as watching the great Walter Pidgeon in what amounts to a glorified cameo, ending his storied career playing a sleazy picketpocket who is blown away in a gratuitously bloody, sadistic climax. While it's obvious everybody is simply picking up a paycheck, Cassavetes and Rowlands can at least be forgiven, since they evidently needed the money to finish one of their classic '70's independent films ("The Killing of a Chinese Bookie", perhaps?) And then there's Hassett, who just happens to be Mrs. Larry Peerce, the awful auteur who directed this mess and shows no style, builds no suspense and exhibits no filmmaking talent whatsoever. At least Charles Fox contributes an eerie score that belongs in a much, much better film.

 Thank goodness Universal finally came to its senses in the late '70's and, for the most part, stopped foisting cheap, cold-blooded Hollywood product like this on the public. The sad thing is this mess was actually based on a pretty good book--George LaFountaine's "Two-Minute Warning." Of course, the filmmakers threw away everything about it, including the sniper's identity, his motivations, and all the characters, keeping only the catchy title and main story thread, which was normal for this period.

 Incidentally, "Two-Minute Warning" is presented in 2:35:1 widescreen and has been remastered so that it looks as good as it did in its 1976 release. Too bad they couldn't have improved the film itself. This one's the pits. * (out of *****)