I am happy with the selection of episodes, one each from seasons 2, 4, 6, and 8.  There are two Joel-Forrester-Frank episodes, a Mike-Forrester-Frank, and a Mike-Pearl-Brain Guy and Bobo episode.  There are classic episodes and lesser known episodes, so this is a really comprehensive set.  The box art is better, in my opinion, and the menu screens are... well, at least they're not boring.  They've taken images and voice tracks from the episodes and edited them with new animation to make little skits on the menu page.  It's a cute idea, and while the menus are a LOT better than those random movement ones of a few sets ago, I hope the voice actors were compensated for this re-working of their original voice tracks.

But I can't give this set a very good rating, and it's all because of the quality control issues.  The Shout! Factory disks that I have bought have all had issues with flickers during the films, something I have mentioned in previous reviews.  Previous sets only had minor, rare flickers and never on all of the disks in the box.  On this set, however, ALL the disks have glitches, and they are frequent and distracting.  This issue with glitches on the DVDs is getting worse, so I wish Shout! would address it.

I managed to pause during one of these flickers.  They often start out with a brief frame where the image is almost completely white, then is immediately followed by a frame where the image is black except for some red and a little blue that remains.  Sometimes it takes up just half of the image, either top or bottom, and sometimes it's the whole screen.  Sometimes it's a blurry black and white smear or boxing.

UPDATE:  I have a screencap of a flicker that occurs at about 14:40 into the "Beast of Yucca Flats" disk during the "Money Talks" short.[...]
This produces a flicker effect which looks like a bright white flash when it's played normally.  As you can see, it's clearly an issue with the disk itself.  These glitches happen several times during "Crash of the Moons", but get really bad at about the 1:14 mark.  On "Beast of Yucca Flats", it happens 4 times in the first 5 minutes, starting at 8 seconds into the show.  At about 12:00 minutes in during the short, the audio skips twice.  There are a few glitches on "Jack Frost" and on extras, too.  While "Lost Continent" has quality issues because of the master tape (there is a disclaimer addressing this at the beginning of the disk), the disk also flickers like the others in the set.

The clarity of color in the episodes is good, but there is something wrong with the definition.  In all episodes, the silhouette has a jagged edge that practically glows, like someone messed with the sharp or the contrast.  Overall, it's better than what you'd get with trading copies, but I would prefer more time be spent on quality even if it meant we had to wait an extra month or 2 to get our episodes.