Victor Valdivia , DVD Verdict --Beats, Rhymes & Life does a solid job of showing how the group members exist today. While Q-Tip launched a prosperous solo career and has also branched out into acting, Phife has all but left hip-hop behind to follow his passion for sports, acting as a basketball scout. In one of the film's most telling moments, he even states bluntly that his affinity for music is so minimal that he can "take or leave" hip-hop. It's this disparity that manifests itself during Tribe's 2008 reunion tour, as Q-Tip and Phife become increasingly frustrated with each other. This is not a whitewashed documentary-the group members describe, in sometimes shocking honesty, how the group came together, how they created their most enduring music, and how their relationship has changed, not always for the better, as they aged and became famous. After watching Beats, Rhymes & Life, you will definitely have a better understanding of who these men really are.

Nonetheless, there are some significant gaps in the storytelling. For one thing, the film doesn't explain just how groundbreaking Tribe was when they first emerged in 1990. This is touched upon here and there, but when viewers who are unfamiliar with the history of hip-hop see Tribe in their admittedly silly-looking clothes and hear their music, they won't quite understand just what a revelation Tribe's music was back then. Hip-hop was so radically different back in that era and while some of the interviewees, particularly Muhammad, mention that, the fact that this is glossed over so casually is a huge oversight. When artists here from Common to Pharrell Williams of the Neptunes talk about how tremendously influential Tribe's early records were, viewers who weren't following hip-hop then won't necessarily understand why. The documentary shows us Tribe's music, but doesn't really put it in the right context.

An even bigger failing is that one crucial question is left unanswered: why did Tribe break up in 1998? Rapaport states in various places on this DVD that this is a question he wanted to answer, yet he really doesn't do so. There's a brief reference to a tense business meeting with representatives from Tribe's record label, and Q-Tip recalls that after the meeting, he immediately decided to break up the group. What happened at this meeting? Did the other members agree with his decision? This section is so unclear that even with Rapaport's commentary, you won't know any more about the break-up after watching the film than you did before. The break-up clearly had a huge impact on the relationships within the group-you can see it in the conflicts that erupt during the reunion tour-so the fact that it's so sketchily detailed is a sizable failing. This should have been a much more comprehensive documentary, even as good as it is at times.

The extras on the DVD are unfortunately not any more enlightening. Rapaport's commentary is worth hearing because he does explain some of his decisions in how he made the film, although there are still some holes left unfilled. "Bringing Beats to Life" (10:20) isn't about the film; it's really about how the animation that opens the film and is interspersed throughout was done. It's only mildly interesting. "On the Red Carpet at the L.A. Film Festival" (5:12) contains interviews with various celebs and musicians at the film's premiere, as well as all the members of Tribe except Q-Tip. There are some great deleted scenes (25:04) that address some interesting issues regarding the group and its history, although they still don't answer all of the remaining questions. At least the anamorphic transfer and 5.1 surround mix are both solid, although some of the archival footage looks and sounds a bit rough.

-Full review at dvdverdict.com