Love and Basketball 2000, 127 min

New Line Cinema, Dir. Gina Prince-Bythwood

Main Actors:  Sanaa Lathan, Omar Epps

Love and Basketball is a unique drama and love story in that it displays how two people who think they can love the game of basketball so much, to only find out that their love each other outweighs any other love they have.  Two young kids, Quincy (Q)and Monica  met as neighbors in California and they both share the same love for basketball, and the desire to play in a professional league someday.  Along the way, both characters face challenges and learning that it takes more than just a good shot to make it to the big league.

Q and Monica began their relationship as friends and denying any attraction to each other.  Then they give in to something they always knew and continued a relationship since they would be attending the same college and both playing for the college basketball teams.  Q knew his dreams of playing professional basketball wasn't far fetch, since his father was already playing in the league, but Monica had more to prove and was determined to do whatever it took to see her dreams through.  As time went on, Q was needing more from Monica and their relationship and he didn't think Monica could provide or share her love for him and basketball, so he ended the relationship and they went their separate ways.  Q dropped out of college  just three years later and was injured his first year in the professional league.  At this time, there was a such thing as a professional league for women, so Monica went overseas and played for a league for a couple of years later finding out that she missed her family and her feelings for basketball had changed.  When Monica got the news that Q had been injured in a game, she went to visit him in the hospital, only to find out that he had  moved on with his life completely and was now engaged to be married.  Could this be the end?

Monica, if nothing else, had learned one thing from playing basketball all those years, you never give up on your dreams and she was determined to find out if Quincy's love for her was really gone and if she could have one more chance to prove to him that this time that she could give him the love he needed.

This film to was well very directed in that it was very realistic and if you love something enough, you should never let go. I think people of all ages can view this film and enjoy how all the drama turns out.