This movie is way above the category of "entertainment" though it has some entertaining moments. Without spoiling the story it is about betrayals, both real and imputed, both small and cosmic, and a way to step beyond living in anger, fear, and self doubt. It was written and produced on a minimal budget by Helen Hunt. Her writing and re-writing of the screenplay took nearly ten years. This should not be taken as an indication of Hunt being a poor writer, but quite the reverse. It  some ways the screen play was over-written particularly relative to a popular audience. It is a rich example of psychological literature done as a film. It is in essence a version of the Rapunzel story, the adult version not the trite nonsense usually offered to children. Firth plays in effect the blinded Prince. It is one of the very, very few contexts that address the prevalence of the puerella pattern of behavior, beyond the more familiar As Helen described the process in the features she took the lead role, just because it was an easier thing to do than to explain what she wanted from another actor. As an actor and producer and director she does an outstanding job with a difficult story. The richness of the roles performed by both Bette Midler and Colin Firth are also well above average. This film deserves the widest exposure possible. She deserves the resources to direct and produce a much more expansive movie, but will not likely get it due to profitability of entertaining us to death and to stupor. It addresses the rites of passage of both the puer and the puella, and those who embrace the transition and those that hide from it. After watching it I was in a daze thinking about its segments for several days, and then I had to watch it again, and then again. The title has potentially multiple references. Her re-interpretation of the old Jewish teaching story which frames the story is also amazing. This is a rare movie and deserves to be used in social psychology and social problems classes as required viewing. It will also strike you at your core and possibly change your life. I regret that anyone would presume to rate this work as solely a piece of entertainment or visual narcotic. First and foremost it is raw pathos of the highest level. It will make you uncomfortable, and that is a very, good thing.