Why must hollywood ruin everything? This is the final chapter in the American Pie movies &amp; that's a good thing. Part of the problem with the last two 'Pie' movies is that there isn't much original material. They all follow the same formula: Humilate Jason Biggs, Stifler is the comedy &amp; also does something disgusting (ex. eat dog poop), Finch &amp; Stifler's mom, Jim's talks with his dad, &amp; some blatent nudity scenes that don't need to be there.
The original was new, fresh, and a genius of a movie. This one is just awful. If you like Stifler, however, this is your movie. Don't get me wrong, I think he's hilarious at times. The other two films gave you his humor in doses. In this flick he is given free reign and he is sometimes irritating. I mean what 23 year old is still going to act like that? Honestly, I don't care about the marriage. You never get a romantic feel from the little chemistry Jason Biggs &amp; Alyson Hannigan have. I don't even know why Thomas Ian Nichols is in this movie. He doesn't have much to do here. Eddie Kaye is back as Finch. Even his character is getting old. And if I have to hear about him &amp; Stifler's mom again, I am going to throw up. Even the bachelor party (a.k.a. the nudity) felt forced. Does Jim only have three friends in his life? And the 'relationship' between Stifler and Michelle's sister is idiotic. There is NO WAY that a girl would go out with him after he treats her like he does in this movie. But, welcome to hollywood.
The movie is not a total loss, though. Jim's dad is back and as funny as ever. Stifler does have some really funny moments. His attempt at wooing Michelle's sister are quite funny. January Jones is incredibly hot. And that's about it.
The only reason I bought this movie was because I wanted the trilogy. I think it's the worst of the three, by far. I wasn't all that crazy about part two either, but at least it FELT like an American Pie movie. It had all of the characters (even though some were just there for show), &amp; it had some funny moments for the other characters. This film is all about Stifler &amp; it falls flat. It should have never been made in the first place. I can't recommend this movie for more than a rental.
Even the special features are somewhat disappointing. There are deleted scenes, outtakes, bachelor party featurette, a cheesy wedding video, etc. Nothing special here.