As much of a big fan as I was of the Ultimate Warrior I had to give this DVD set a 2. First of all where is the Warrior's side of the story of what really happened in his career. All I heard was some of the guys that worked with him and even guys who were still in kindergarten flapping their gums. For the most part they were dissing on the Warrior left and right which makes him an easy target for the WWE to attack. As for the name of this DVD set is an insult. Why would the WWE use the title Self Destruction. After all the WWE is notorious for many former wrestlers no longer walking the face of the Earth. Wrestlers that don't get to live past retirement only because they didn't take care of themselves. That is what the term Self Destruction means to me.

The WWE even talks about the warrior getting fired on 3 different occasions, such as Summer Slam of 1991 when Hulk Hogan and the Ultimate Warrior team up against Sgt. Slaughter, General Adnan and Col. Mustafa. The WWE's story was that the Warrior demanded more money or he wasn't going to show up for that match which was true but Vince McMahon says that it was like pointing a gun to his head. The real story was that the Warrior was owed money from Wrestle Mania 7 and that was the money he demanded. The second time was the following year just before the Survivor Series 1992 when he was tag team partners with 'Macho Man' Randy Savage. The WWE says that the Warrior failed a drug test, "a failed drug test?" Not to long ago they suspended 10 of their wrestlers for steroid use for about a week all separately and none of them got fired. Well anyway the real reason the Warrior got fired was a breach of contract. The WWE wanted to basically change his character from the one that we are used to seeing perform. The final time was when the Warrior's father passed away which was true but the WWE made it sound like "the Warrior didn't care" and was only using it as an excuse so the Warrior wouldn't show up to his matches.

I thought this set could have had more matches like including more matches with Rick Rude such as the match that they had at Wrestle Mania 5 for the I.C. Title or even the rematch at SummerSlam 1989 for the I.C. Title. I believe that the Ultimate Warrior had the best chemistry with Rick Rude because alot of the moves that the Warrior used after this rivalry, were used by Rick Rude when they wrestled against eachother. They also could have added the match he had with Sgt. Slaughter at the Royal Rumble in 1991, which was more intense than the rematch that they had about 3 months later. This match that they included ended in a disqualification due to outside interference by the Undertaker. How about the match he had with triple H at Wrestle Mania 12, which was highly anticipated because of his return to the WWE after a 3 1/2 year absence. Even the match that he had with Jerry the King Lawler at the King of the Ring of 1996 which was his final pay per view match with the WWE. I thought that this should have been a 3 disc set instead of 2. They didn't even include any of the promos that he did leading up to his matches even though nobody understood what he was saying they could have been added to a third disc.

In my mind the Ultimate Warrior had a great career that was obviously taken away from him because the wrestling business wanted to control him. He put alot of money in the pockets of the guys that talked trash about him, he put @sses in seats to give the fans that little something extra and this is what he got in return. I thought his career should have been presented in an unbiased manner. They could have at least have kept it 50/50 such as looking at his career both ways. Not even Triple H and Shawn Michaels can keep his name out of their mouths. Even to this day if the Ultimate Warrior were to come back to the WWE, he will be well recieved by the fans. If that were to happen I'm pretty sure that there would be alot of tension in the back and have other wrestlers thinking that this guy is in my territory and he is invading it. The Warrior should one day be in the Hall of Fame for all of his accomplishments. Unfortunetely that day may not happen because of the personal vendetta with those evil McMahons and he probably wouldn't show up anyway if he was asked to participate.