From a review of the cast list, this movie looks promising - the original source for the story is Cameron Crowe, the leads are Orlando Bloom and Kirsten Dunst, with Susan Sarandon and Alec Baldwin in supporting roles (as the usually dependable Bruce McGill carving out his niche as a character actor.)

The problem is that there is no "there" in Elizabethtown.  The plot, such that it is, is revealed within the first 15 minutes.  After that nothing much happens.  Instead, the filmmaker uses "hip" music played in the background to cover up the complete absence of any plot.  This movie was apparently not released to critics prior to its theatrical release, and no wonder - the producers obviously wanted to capitilze on the first week-end drawing power of Bloom and Dunst before word got out on what a bore this one is.

What is more frustrating is how the film wasted some very good talent.  Dunst has the qualities to be a real star, and has shown that in other movies.  Sarandon is completly wasted on a cliche-ridden role as a "California/Oregon/free thinker".  She already played that role to great success in "Bull Durham."  Here, there is no depth to her character, and her one real moment on the screen (about 2 hours in) is apparently meant to make a poignant point about her now-deceased husband.  Instead it's just an awkward five minutes.  Alec Baldwin shows promise in the first five minutes of playing what has become his now-standard role; the slightly malevolent owner and boss of a large company.  Unfortunately, that first five minutes is it:  there is nothing more.  Bruce McGill, who has made a pretty good career at playing older rural "characters" again is given a good set-up as the slightly crooked old friend of Bloom's deceased father - but after that introduction, nothing.

What would have been far more interesting is a "Making of Elizabethtown" - where we could see just exactly how people in Hollywood got paid to make a list of premises, and then passed that off as a script.  Now that would be worth watching!

Save yourself your money and 2 hours - don't take the Elizabethtown exit.