One of my favorite John Wayne movies, this is a western version of Taming of the Shrew.  The Duke and Maureen O'Hara show off their famous chemistry, starring as George Washington McLintock and his estranged wife Katherine.  These two fine actors are backed by a strong supporting cast, including Stefanie Powers as daughter Rebbecca, Patrick Wayne as Dev Warren, Yvonne DeCarlo as Louise Warren, Chill Wills as Drago, Strother Martin as Agard, and Jerry Van Dyke as Matt Douglas, Jr, among others.

The story is simple.  The Duke is the biggest thing in the town that bears his name.  He's a generous kind of a guy, a drinking and good times kind of fellow.  His wife has separated from him, seeking more social standing then the little town can offer.  She returns to town to welcome her daughter back from college and to try and secure a divorce from GW, leading to some humorous results.  Throw in settlers, some restless Indians, Patrick Wayne and Jerry Van Dyke vying for the attention of GW's daughter, and plenty of booze and you have a madcap romp through the old west.  I won't spoil the plot for anyone, but there's a fantastic fight in a mudpit and a great scene involving whiskey and a staircase that should not be missed!

The movie is laugh out loud funny and John Wayne and Maureen O'Hara truly have a fantastic rapport.  It's fun to watch these two feed off of each other.  The movie's not too deep and there is some dated racial humor, mostly involving the Chinese cook and some of the Indians, who are also treated conversely as friends and respected former enemies by McLintock.  Those few gaffes aside, the movie is great family fare, not to be missed.

Make sure the version you purchase is the Authentic Collector's Edition.  The movie has never looked or sounded better, the transfer superb.  Based on this edition, I plan to purchase other John Wayne films in this series as well.  The extras are kind of fluffy, but the superior rendering of the film far outweighs any bonus features.