Ten years ago, who could imagine Trent Reznor would be handclapping to March Of The Pigs and encouraging the audience to do the same at concerts?

With Teeth (2005), Reznor's first full album since the masterpiece The Fragile (1999) was his commercial comeback, but not artistic one. It sounded rather like a collection of demos than a finished album, and the lyrics felt mostly recycled. He had nothing new to show and no story to tell. He needed to release something because he hadn't for a long time, so the public might forget about him soon. (And he was going to sue his ex-manager because he had "stolen" his money.) And he and his band tirelessly toured for more than a year to promote the album. This DVD was filmed during two shows in the 2006 Winter Tour.

I'm sure Reznor and his band and staff worked very hard to put the shows together. The DVD looks really entertaining with stunning lighting designs, and the setlist mostly consists of hits and fast-paced songs. However, there was no emotion, no soul because he had no story to tell us. He rather looked pretended, and I couldn't feel much sincerity or intimacy from him like I used to in NIN live and And All That Could Have Been (2002), another NIN live DVD. The only time I could feel "emotionally connected" to him while watching this DVD was during Right Where It Belongs because I felt like he really meant it.

The all band members in Fragility Tour (1999-2000) (except Reznor himself, of course) were replaced, and now Reznor's got a new band. Unfortunately, this line-up is no match to the previous one in every aspect, skills, creativity, versatility, characters and chemistry. While I read many people complaining about the setlist lacking songs from The Fragile, it wasn't surprising to me at all because this line-up's weakness becomes most apparent in TF songs. They just don't have enough depth and complexity to pull them off. I believe Reznor intentionally avoided TF songs because he didn't want this band to be directly compared to the Fragility guys.

The setlist mostly consists of loud, fast and rather simple songs from Pretty Hate Machine (1989), Broken (1992), The Downward Spiral (1994) and With Teeth. There was no instrumental or semi-instrumental song as though Reznor was afraid that the band wouldn't be able to grab audience's attention without his vocal. As a result, the DVD looks more like a standard R&R show without much character because basically there was "no new tale to tell". In addition, because With Teeth was such a weak album, Reznor needed to use Eraser, a song from TDS for the movie sequence. The idea was actually recycled from Self Destruct Tour (1994-1995) as seen in Closure (1997) video. Despite of its far superior picture and sound quality, Eraser in BYIT didn't grip me as strong as the clip in Closure did.

The lighting designs indeed look stunning with lots of strobes (many people complained they thought they were going to have epileptic seizures), LCDs and screens. But I find them too much, rather distracting my attention from the band and music than enhancing the performance. This line-up is more like a punk/garage-band compared to older line-ups, and the much simpler lighting designs for the 2005 club/festival tour suited them better and were much more effective.

The summer tour footage in the additional content looked more like a catalog of lighting designs, and the band and music were hiding behind those lights as though their performance by itself wouldn't be strong enough. I don't think it's always necessary to have such big and excessive stage sets to play in amphitheaters of up to 20,000 people if you believe the music is powerful enough. The much simpler designs in Fragility looked and felt amazing in The Gorge Amphitheater.

Unlike AATCHB, the picture of BYIT is very clear and polished. I remember that when AATCHB was being released, Reznor said in interviews that he had actually hired a video company to film Self Destruct Tour, but didn't release it because the result looked too "cookie-cuttered". That's why AATCHB was filmed and edited as it was, everything done in-house, in order to give viewers the feeling of "actually being there". That DVD doesn't let you sit down, relax in front of TV and just enjoy it, but instead, grabs you, and pulls you into the show. You feel like you are actually watching the show LIVE NOW. That never happens with BYIT. This DVD has a more professionally-made look, and failed to capture raw and visceral energy of live shows. It looks like this time Reznor did what he didn't want for AATCHB, but the result isn't impressive.

Now I understand why I've read so many positive comments on the 2005 rehearsal footage. It was filmed and edited in-house, and had no fancy lighting design. But it is actually showing the band and its performance, and nothing else. It feels barer, more intimate and thrilling.

So, here is a summary.

A. Many of non-NIN fans will enjoy this DVD. This is a well-produced concert DVD that looks and sounds pretty and entertaining.

B. Most, if not all, of new fans after With Teeth will love this because it's pretty much all they know. They don't know the time when NIN used to be so ahead of time, provocative both intellectually and emotionally, intimate and dangerous all at the same time. They want to believe the only thing they've seen is the best, and don't want to admit that they have missed something much better.

C. Most, if not all, of old-time NIN fans wouldn't like this DVD for the same reason people in A will enjoy it. This is not something only Reznor could do. NIN have become a rather standard rock band.

After the release of TF, one critique called Reznor "a (true) artist who doesn't want to be a Rock Star". Another said "There is nothing normal or traditional about Trent Reznor". Now NIN and Reznor look so normal and safe. With Teeth Tour/BYIT was his effort to resurrect his status as a rock star, but not as a truly unique artist.