This is not the most beautiful movie. Sadly, though, it may be the most of the whole year. When I went to see this film I hadn't
know much on John Nash. I still do not! After sitting through (*shudder*) Russel Crowe, who you cannot escape anywhere, for 2 and a half hours, I had to find out the whole thing was a down-spankin'-right evasive flick with tomfoolery! Ron Howard is one of those... directors who loves to play around with real life and switch it' into an innocent, benevolent and tender motion picture. I urge you to take a look into his recent films: The Grinch. (His heart grew from 10 sizes to small to 10 sizes too tall--or something dippy like that.) Cocoon. Why, even Apollo 13 HAD TO HAVE Tom Hanks, and well, we all know the outcome of that. This movie is not about who you think it is about. It is about the little man inside Ron Howard's head telling him who and what to exploit and how. I doubt John Nash--the real man would have come close to saying Russ's speech here. There were so many distortions. John Nash had a child from formerly. Not utterly essential, but did it seem like the man in the here would have? John Nash engaged umpteen affairs and was arrested for incontinence with men. John Nash and his wife were divorced once--only to get back together. (Sound like the recent episode of "As the World Turns"?) He never made the cockeyed speech he did at the end, instead he pronounced, "The money could have been better". I'm sure already people have addressed this on here, but so, now I shall be. Okay, this movie was to be a piece of fiction with the fundemential basis of Nash's life. Well, paint the toad houses green, 'cuz it didn't work! This movie proved to be drawen out in many ways--so many times. One sleeper scene after another full of gush. Personally, I think this movie would have been much more interesting, if not appealing if it documented his real life. So people don't want see that they think? Well wake up to life! And what about the innumerable number of other films discommoding? This movie had no subplots. The only probelm seemed to be his schizphrenia. Big, it may be, but as we can see--it wasn't the only thing in his life. I found the characters to be 2-D. Where was Nash's past? Alicia's past? Any other fears, anxieties? Maybe it was about love's strength and depth. Maybe it was about his man's obstacle. Still, couldn't they have kept this with a little more dimensionality? Tricks, other than falsifying the truth were played on us to make us feel responsive to the illness. It was a repeat of ideas and twists long played out in Hollywood. By the time we found out the authenticity of the whole thing, Charles, the most compelling character of all wasn't even real. It took me more time that it should have to believe this man was conjuring up these people in his mind, for the fact I can't believe someone could envision anyone as horrendous as Ed Harris. Russel Crowe is vastly overrated, and he is everywhere, consuming chicken or reciting crippled poetic verses. Jennifer Connelly is as well, for I saw nothing distinct in her acting. I am telling you this movie did have some potential. It made it through at last. It may win the Oscars. In my opinion, though, it would take a bit more advancement. It completed well, we saw Nash's acheievements, but they did not even elaborte his work sufficiently! As for the title, there are many mental irregular people I know, and most of them can do things the universial joe can't--perhaps a lot more, such as we see here. These people can be beautiful and are--so kudos to that. I am done.