Such high hopes after seeing Gospel According to John,  this effort is very disappointing.  The acting is horrible horrible horrible and awful after that.

Bruce Marchiano treats the role of Jesus like Jesus was an entertainer on a stage or a stand up comedian, not actually relating to people. After performing some miracles, he looks as if he is about to yell "Ta Da!!!!" or maybe thrust his hands in the air and run around the field like he just scored a touchdown or something. When he delivers his lines, he pauses at really awkward moments, as if he is trying to remember his lines, and rapid fire delivers them at other times when he should pause. He whispers to the Jewish authorities 'you brood of vipers' and "you hypocrites" and smiles when he's chastising the towns for not repenting in which he did his miracles. He actually delivers some sermons with his hand on his hip, and other times dumps water on an onlooker. They have him joyfully smiling to the point of his voice breaking in 16:23 when he says to Peter "get behind me Satan" and throughout 16:26 - 28  during the "What profits a man if he loses his soul" speech while his disciples are straightfaced and somber. Ugh. HORRIBLE ACTING.

The way the movie cuts between first and 3rd persons in the form of an older Matthew narrating the story to his children and Jesus acting it out...it's just plain awkward timing a lot of the time. The narration during the acting out of Jesus: "He said", "They said" etc is also distracting because it doesn't flow with the scene.  The musical soundtrack is really bad too.

My conclusion is that this movie did not enhance my understanding of the Gospel in any way. I actually felt repulsed and did not trust the words coming out of this portrayal of Jesus due the horrible acting. I've tried to watch this a couple of times, and each time I just couldn't wait until it was over and I LOVE Matthew's Gospel! This is so different from the "Gospel of John" video from the same makers. It is way better to read this Gospel than view it here.