I first saw this production on network TV back in the mid 70's when I was 7 or 8 and the my clearest memory of it was how much of a babe Fiona Fullerton was. Seeing it again at the age of 33, the quality of the film betrays its age, yet still maintains a timeless aura.
The film starts off well, with a feel and look that stays true to my visions of the Lewis Carrol tale. I thought Alice's drop down the rabbit hole, the great hall of doors, and the pool of tears were all very well done. Though the sets are obviously play-prodution quality, they still work for me. John Barry's score is excellent and adds a hauntingly beautiful touch that, I'm sure, Carrol would approve of.
As far as performances go, the film does seem a bit top-heavy with talent. Indeed, this production has more "Sir's" than King Arthur's round table, and unfortunately, as with some other "all-star" films, the overall product does not necessarily equal the sum of the parts. Though some actors do live up to their reputations (Peter Bull and Peter Sellers are delightfully mad.), several notables seem as lost as Alice. I was rather disappointed in particular with Sir Ralph Richardson as the caterpillar and Dudley Moore's doormouse is extremely forgetable. I am at a loss to explain why his face adorns the VHS cover. All babeness aside, Fiona Fullerton does a solid job, especially considering much of her dialogue is spoken to herself. My only complaint is she seems to be having a little too much fun in some of the scenes, which detracts from the surreal undercurrents of the tale and negates any conflict which might arise.
As with other productions of the Alice stories, I found this one contained certain incongruencies from scene to scene. The film can't seem to decide whether it's merely a children's tale or a darker venture into something else. The mad hatter's tea party, for instance, is completely brainless, with only Peter Seller's march hare bringing any insanity or intrigue to the scene. On the other hand, the chaotic mayhem in the Dutchess' house might very well give children nightmares. The quantity and mood of the musical numbers, however, does suggest that this film was targeted at younger audiences.
I suppose an eternal debate will continue over whether Carrol's stories purposefully contained deeper themes or were simply meant to be innoccuous fairly tales. As for this production, it succeeds in capturing a part, if not all, of the strange world of wonderland.