Halloween The Curse Of Michael Myers is my favorite Halloween sequel, and, despite having horrible reviews, is the second best of the series (the first being part 1, of course).  The movie realized that the series was getting pretty dull by part 5, so it adds a lot of new plot twists, like Michael being involved in some cult called "Thorn" that makes one person kill every member of his family.  You'll also find out in this one who the Man In Black really is (I'll give you a hint, he was in ONE scene from the original).  
The movie begins with Jamie Lloyd (no longer Danniele Harris, but J.C. Brandy) having a baby, which is then stolen by the man in black, who is going to make this baby Michael's sacrifice.  However, a kind woman working there helps Jamie escape with her baby.  This woman then meets her fate, impaled to a coat hanger by Michael Myers, who is now stronger and more enraged than ever!!  Jamie does get away, and hides her baby at a bus depot, before she, to, meets her maker.  Then, we go on to meet Kara Strode (Marriene Hagan) and her family.  She's got a seven year old boy.  She's going to college to make up for her past mistakes.  Her father, John, dosn't approve of her staying at his place, where he already has two other people living, his wife, and his son, John (Bradford English).  John Strode is an abusive alcoholic, who mistreats his entire family.  Kara is a little bit creeped out by this man who's staring at her out his window.  Well, this man happens to be Tommy Doyle (Paul Steven Rudd), who was being babysat by Laurie Strode when Myers attacked in 1978.  He's a little messed up by this particular incident, and he thinks that Michael's returning.  He was also listening to this particular radio show the night before, and recorded when Jamie screamed "Help Me" to the show.  He tracks the area she was calling from down to the bus depot, where he finds her baby.  Meanwhile, Kara is being stalked by Michael, but doesn't realize it.  And, to make things worse, her little son is hearing a voice that says "Kill For Me".  Who's going to survive THIS Halloween?  Watch and see.
Halloween The Curse Of Michael Myers is a very underrated Halloween film.  It is propably (aside from Part 3) the least popular of the series, but I can't understand why.  My least favorite film is actually Part 4.  This movie is great, it's scary, funny, shocking, gory, mysterious.  Everything to make a perfect horror film (including suspense).  Yes, it's very hard to make to much sense of it, but that's what makes it  more intelligent.  And there is so much gore!  I know Part 1 is famous for being almost completely bloodless, but blood was needed at this point.  It's definetly the most extremly graphic of the whole series.  But still, it's got a plot, and a fine plot, I must say.  The Myers mask is back to normal, as is his house (where the Strode family is living).  The man behind the mask this time, George P. Wilbur (Michael in Part 4), is far superior to that guy, Donald Shank, who played him in the fifth one.  But, then, in H2O, the man behind the mak is HORRIBLE!!  And YOU CAN SEE HIS EYES!!!  But in this, you can't see Michael's eyes, and he's played eerily.  Nice job Mr. Wilbur!  
As for this DVD, well, it's OK.  No special features (aside from sneak peek trailers for H2O and the Scream Box Set), but it's presented in widescreen, and has nice, clear picture.  I'm dieing to see that Producer's Cut, which is apparentally almost a different film.  It'd be awesome to release a DVD with both versions on it, but for now, this one's OK.  If I were you, though, I'd wait a little bit, and I'm sure they'll release the producer's cut. 
If you found my review helpful, don't forget to vote for me!!!!
Thank You!