The Family Guy Freakin' Sweet collection is hard to recommend.

If you're a die hard Family Guy fan (like me), I'm sure you've bought it already and have watched it several times over. However, since I already own all three seasons (which cost me a good $80 dollars or so) I was hesitant to shell out another $20 for this. Now that I do have it though, I honestly feel like it was a waste of $20 hard earned dollars.

However, If you happen to be new to Family Guy and don't want to pay $80 bucks for the box sets only to find you don't really like it, this may be a safer purchase. It contains 5 very good episodes that give a basic definition of what Family Guy is: off the wall non stop comedy, chocked full of pop-culture spoofs and filled with humor on every level.

So what do we get this time around? Five episodes, hand picked by FG creator Seth MacFarlane for this set. "When You Wish Upon a Weinstein", "Road to Rhode Island", "Lethal Weapons", "I am Peter, Hear Me Roar", and "To Love and Die in Dixie". All of the episodes except "Weinstein" include optional commentaries from Seth MacFarlane and other writers/producers/actors from the show. "RTRI" includes a commentary from Brain and Stewie, the beloved alcoholic dog and maniacal toddler who helped make the show famous. Special features also include the 6 minute pilot of MacFarlane's new show "American Dad", an interview with MacFarlane about American Dad, and an interview with MacFarlane about why he picked these episodes for the DVD.

The DVD is worth it if you want to see the American Dad preview (which I happened to enjoy) or if you want to see the infamous Osama bin Laden segment removed from "Road to Rhode Island". Otherwise this is just an average DVD. The commentaries aren't as funny as the ones in the box sets, mostly due to the absence of the one person who made the previous commentaries worth listening to: Seth Green. The biggest disappointment was the Brian/Stewie commentary, which really isn't that great. Yeah there's a couple good jokes, but I like hearing from the creators more than hearing from the characters as they pretend that they actually exist outside the show.

The ads on the DVD case claim there is a big preview for the upcoming season 4. I can tell you now it's a lie. There is no real "preview" of season 4. What we get is 20 minutes of Family Guy's creator Seth MacFarlane commenting on his top 5 favorite episodes from seasons 1-3. All we really hear about season 4 is that there is an episode where Stewie meets the man who might be his father. Other than that, we get diddly squat.

So, unless you're a diehard Family Guy fan or someone who just wants a quick taste, I can't recommend this DVD set to you. If you want a truly great FG experience and have the money to do it, get the box sets of seasons 1 - 3.