First things first - if you are at all tempted to think of this as being even near the same overall theme as 'Red Dawn', then stop and purge those thoughts. The only similarity is that both have an invading force. Red Dawn is  total action picture, the stars looked more or less like average teens in Anytown USA and the action began in the first few minutes and continued until the final few.  The body count of bad guys was satisfyingly high, and the ending wrapped things up pretty well, in its own way.

"TWTWB" on the other hand, is beautifully photographed, stars beautiful people, has beautiful scenery, Australian outback, wilderness, waterfalls. the young people don't look much like anyone that I knew in high school or university days, but then, if I had lived in Hollywood or Australia, maybe they wold have all had that warm glowing appearance.
Action: The action in this movie does not begin until about three-quarters of the way through. If you expect the ambush the bad guys, snipe them from cover, etc., then you will be sorely disappointed. The main bit of action involves blowing up a bridge. period.
There is no 'character development' of the enemy, and the reasons for invasion are given in a very cursory, perfunctory way, having a vague connection to the world's diminishing resources and the need for the communist approach to 'sharing the wealth' by taking everything that everyone has, killing or imprisoning anyone who objects, and sending the natural resources back to Mother China.
The 'ending' is merely a scene of the grim but still beautiful young crew, riding off into the sunset - or maybe it was the dawn, I was a bit numb by then - vowing to fight the good fight. Huzzah.

I do understand that this is part of a Never Ending Series - a serial based on a series of books - but bluntly speaking, I was rather disappointed that this portion did not do well as a 'stand alone' movie. The exquisite Stieg Larsson series starring Noomi Rapace and Michael Nyquist, the Girl With the Dragon Tattoo, et al, are all connected - all part of the Millennium series - yet each of them can be viewed as a complete movie on its own, ( Granted, the end of the second might be a bit melancholy if we did not already know that Lisbet would be around for the third film) so I rather hoped this would follow in that vein. But no.
All in all Tomorrow When the War Began, is NOt a bad film. It's just that it could have been so much better with a faster pace, a bit more passion from the actors, and a little more action.