Is Waid's story better? Heck yes! Did this movie do a good job of giving the general gist of what ToB was supposed to be about with only 77 minutes? Again, yes. If you only have enough money to buy one or the other, buy ToB. However, if you can spare a few extra bucks, I recommend getting this movie as well.

Moving into the movie, I liked the new plans/altered plans that Batman came up with in this film just as much (if not more) than ToB and so have no problem with the changes. In fact, Bane beating Bruce's a** was one of the more wonderful parts of the movie.

Overall, the plot wasn't amazing (again, 77 minutes) but for what they had it told a decent story. (Remember, ToB didn't just span its 4 issues, but was also told with follow-up JL issues and it even had repercussions for the younger heroes like Robin in Young Justice.)

Also, for those fans in-the-know, there were several hints throughout the movie to previous things that had happened in the comics (Bane, anyone?) which I'm just nerdy enough to get a real kick out of.

The artwork was great and it looks as if they were drawn by the same person that does Young Justice. The music is again by Christopher Drake and the main theme is a sort of remix from the awesome Crisis on Two Earths song.

One thing I did find odd is that Flash is Barry Allen but voiced by Michael Rosenbaum (who voices Wally in the Justice League cartoons). Nothing wrong with that since I do like Michael's voice, but it threw me for a loop until they definitely confirmed that it was Barry and not Wally as the Flash.

In case anyone is wondering, the line-up is such: Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman, Flash (Barry, obviously), Green Lantern (Hal), Cyborg (not a member of the JL, for you whiners!). For baddies you have Vandal Savage, Bane, Cheetah, Mirror Master, Star Sapphire, Metallo, & Ma'alefa'ak, as well as a minor appearance from the Royal Flush Gang. As much as I love Luthor and Joker, I'm glad they decided to go for some different villains for once.

As for the special features (on the Blu-Ray), the ones I've seen so far were just ok. The preview of Superman vs. the Elite was cool and I can't wait for it, but the Guarding the Balance: Batman and the JLA had more commentary about American history and politics than Batman. :( The episodes that Bruce Timm Presents are Wild Cards Part 1 & 2, which is cool but I already own the entire Justice League series. I haven't watched the other features yet.