Ok as with most of Roland's movies the premise is great yet mid-way through one can see not much thought was put into it.  For example:
  An Alien civilization that is capable of travelling Light years, has a fleet of ships that is capable of destroying cities with a beam, has a force field that can withstand bombs, and their first intent?  DESTROY NEW YORK CITY!!!!  But wait the Earth and Mankind is saved by a drunken pilot and lo and behold Jeff Goldblum who infects their super computer with a laptop running Windows 95!!!  Ok waste of $$$ Maybe next time?

  OH NO!!!  A Lizard that is made by nuclear tests (Godzilla) and what does he decide to destroy?  Ummm NEW YORK CITY maybe?

Well the only saving grace for Roland thus far was The Patriot.  So he did good with that one.  But this movie The Day After Tomorrow brings him back down.

Ok it is a good idea.  Global Warming and the destruction of yes you guessed it... NEW YORK CITY.  What is wrong with Roland and New York?  But it gets better.  You have snow in India ok... skull crushing hail in Japan that happens during a common thunderstorm ummm ok...and tornadoes in Los Angeles that just happens to tear down the Hollywood sign...ummmmmmm ok.  But the storms grow to epic sizes and a wave comes in off the Atlantic Ocean.  Now stay with me here.  The Statue of Liberty is 305 feet from the ground to the tip of the torch, the wave that came in was about 50 feet below the torch.  Let us give Roland the benefit of the doubt and say the wave is 200 feet high.  Moves in towards New York from the Statue to NYC in a few seconds and this distance and this distance is approximately 1/2 a mile.  It reaches Manhattan and takes about 5 minutes to get mid way up the Island of NYC but gives Jake just enough time to save his girl and get in the Public Libraary (even though the wall of water is about 2 blocks away).  Oh I forgot to mention the escape of the computer wolves.

  Jake calls his father to see what he can do and although he is in a huge area of the library they act as if he can not swim out of the little area he is on the phone with his father as the water floods in.
(Now the part that made this movie a comedy in my opinion)  The cold that can freeze you solid in a few seconds.  This sounds as outlandish as the starving, badly made, escapee wolves that are out for blood after a few hours of freedom.  I am sorry for being technical and scientific but I do not know of a temperature on Earth cold enough to freeze clothed, warm blooded life in a matter of seconds.  But we are told this by the same guy that wants us to believe that Will Smith can knock out and kill an Alien with one punch.

  ANYWAY!  Jake is chased by the all enveloping ice that is closing in on him from all directions with the exception of the path he is on.  Quaid finds him under the frozen ocean that... wait, how does 200 feet of water freeze instantly before the really cold air hits?  OH it must have been the 180 inches of precipitation that fell overnight?  Yes the 15 feet of snow that fell in Europe tells about how 200 feet of water can freeze instantly before the air is cold enough to freeze people instantly.  It has to get better right?

  WAIT!  IS THAT IT?  It is over?  Astronauts on a space station see that the clouds are breaking up?  That is it?  Well Roland once again dropped the ball on what could have been an epic movie.  What can he ruin the next time?

  Hey Roland if you are reading this how about this: Evolution gave Lizards, and Mammals a shot at living and they failed.  So now it is time for the Insects.  Due to over population in humans our food supplies run short and a virus breaks out.  We are so closely cramped the virus spreads like wildfire.  The insects eat the humans and grow exponentially from all of the meat.  From eating human brains they gain the ability to think.  They grow to epic proportions about 100 feet in length and decide to fly inland from the Atlantic ocean.  First stop?  Come on need I say?  New York City!  Flying in from they pass the Statue of Liberty at over 300 MPH in a swarm never seen before.  They reach lower Manhattan in one second but the hero sees them come in and runs away to safety just as the insects take their sweet time covering land.  His job was to work at the CDC and he was working on a vaccine made from spider venom.  He then flies an Apache Helicopter that he found in a junkyard to spread the vaccine that will do two things: Kill the insects AND save mankind!  Give me a call Roland ok?  Have your people contact my people and we can work on yet another ridiculous plot.  Or how about Aliens that can be invisible yet come to a planet (unprotected) that is 75% water even though the Water kills,,, oh wait another one that ruins ideas already ruined that one.

Over all movie is good up to when the freezing starts.  Want a laugh?  Watch it all the way through.