I see so many juvenile and silly reviews that consist of lines such as "this film is stupid it doesnt even have michael myers in it!" and "they were just trying to make money of the name!".  A word for you reviewers:  Grow up.  Do your research FIRST before you jump in and post whatever nonsense you can think of.  You are nothing but spoiled kids that have parents that are too out of touch to monitor your actions.  You deserve a smack in the mouth.  Anyways, this is an OKAY film.  John carpenter wanted to have a new halloween film every couple of years or so featuring DIFFERENT STORIES with different directors and writers putting in their own ideas into the mix.  It's called being a creative force and is something that is completely lost in todays hollywood.  A series of films bearing the "halloween" moniker would have been cool except they got off on the WRONG foot.  H3 is over the top and strange.  They just wanted to produce a horror film and have it similar to the "creepshow" concept of alternate universes and stories, etc.  Michael Myers was a boogie man that existed in this alternate reality of haddonfield, IL and was  a slasher and murderer.  Carpenter just wanted to switch gears away from that character and keep the universe going while presenting different tales. That's it.  H3 was supposed to be unrealistic and borderline cartoonish.  The acting leaves alot to be desired and the FX are almost comedic.  It was supposed to be a chapter of a long running serial of films.  The cinematography is spooky and I can see how carpenter was involved.  The film is weak but over time we could have had a new halloween film every couple of years from different directors breathing life into their nightmares.  When the movie failed at the box office the powers that be wanted more of myers and forced carpenter out of the franchise by seizing control of the myers character.  Carpenter, who is a hippie by nature, did'nt have anything to do with it and simply walked away.  Who cares about selling out, right?  Right.  Carpenter did the RIGHT thing, people.  H3 was going to be the beginning however the studio squashed it and now we have numerous horrible sequels of myers just walking around offing people in different ways.  He's no longer scary and is just a cliche in the world of horror.  Too bad.  So now instead of getting your facts straight you sit there and spill out one line of stupidity and give this 1 star because you don't get it.  Good luck with your moronic remakes of the same garbage over and over again.  It's a shame amazon won't take a credit card number to verify your age and instead has a promise that you are "over the age of 13" before you hit that submit button.  I guess this is the right of the people to say whatever they want.  Ahh, the price of freedom.

To anyone that reads this....check out halloween 3, okay?  Don't buy it untill you see it first.  It may not be your cup of joe which is fine.  At least see it for yourself.  It's an odd little film with a lofty and sinister concept that will make you wonder how it ever made it to the big screen (children are the targets of a pagan world wide conspiracy using ancient magic to murder them....far out) in the first place.  You may either hate it or like it.  Some parts will make you laugh at the (intentional?) humor and some parts will make you squirm.  I for one think it's goofy by nature but fascinating to watch.  I give it 3 stars.