"Cold Mountain" is somewhat based on the book by Charles Frazier and as one reviewer said, is filmed by Anthony Minghella in an attempt to recreate his success with the romantic "The English Patient". The "English Patient" was I believed, an unfilmable novel until I saw the film. It worked. The tragedy in the "English Patient" was the love story while here, it is the senseless war. This film works because the story is hard to screw up. The war scenes and scenes of Inman's travels back to Cold Mountain are disturbing and haunting. I was really struck by the harshness of that time and the effect of war on women- how difficult it would have been to survive when farms were wiped out by the draft. The failure of this film is that this movie lacks passion in its central relationship. You have to suspend your disbelief and believe there is a relationship- the film does not lend support to the premise that Inman gives up everything for Ida after receiving a letter from her begging him to come home (though that is Hollywood's stamp and not the prime reason for desertion in the book). The 2 love scenes between the leads are particularly dull. Jude Law does a wonderful job as do the supporting cast but the presence of Nicole Kidman strained the film's credibility. What stood out like a red flag for me and ruined the film was the casting of Nicole Kidman. I must admit to not being a fan, but I never disliked her until I saw her in this film which I believe she ruins. With her bleached yellow straw hair contrasting with dark eyebrows, Botox-paralyzed forehead devoid of emotion and Barbie-doll features she fits so poorly into this period-appropriate cast, and God is she a lousy actress here. Renee Zelwegger's line that "if I cry one tear for him [father] I stole it from a crocodile" is far more applicable to Kidman, whose acting in this film is so contrived. One never forgets she is acting, and an actress. Her technique consists of exaggerated responses- so that rather than becoming the character, she becomes a caricature. Her botox-paralyzed forehead is bizarre and made her displays of emotion especially unbelievable and her performance stands in stark contrast to the subdued Law and ebullient Zelwegger. Were it not for the supporting cast I would not have sat through this film to its end. It is unneccesarily long and repetitive at times.

I suppose this is a particular warning to actresses everywhere- let the botox wear off before you appear in a film! When one is called upon to display emotion, the botox will betray your visit to the plastic surgeon every time. Oh, the wrinkles go- but the artificial frozen look that replaces them is even more bizarre and undisguisable!