I guess I was expecting a remake of "Get Carter" (the 1971 version) Done the way it should have been. I remembered watching Michael Caine rip though everything as a child and thinking he was awesome. So when the 2000 version with Sylvester Stallone came out I was willing to give it a try even *if* Rambo was playing the part. Alas my hopes were dashed and I rushed to see the original again only to realize that it wasn't so good either. Some things from the 70's just don't translate well, and I think that's what happened with "Get Carter". So in my mind I started seeing how a modern version of Carter should be done. When I first saw the trailer for "I'll Sleep When I'm Dead" I felt as if  my prayers had been answered. When I found out Clive Owen (King Arther), Charlotte Rampling (Spy Game) and Malcolm McDowell (Clockwork Orange) were going to be in it, I began racking up the body count in my head.

 So it was a pretty severe let down. First off I expected *much* better directing from Mike Hodges, the pacing of this movie felt like some first time Film Festival entry, instead of from one of the writers of the original "Get Carter". Thinking perhaps I was letting my memory of the original cloud my judgment too much I watched it again. Trying to judge it on its own merits. I tried but the plot is obviously a rip off of Get Carter so its pretty impossible not to compare. And as bad as both version are so far (and they are pretty bad) In the first version you get a *lot* of violence (by 70's standards) In the 2nd you at least get to look at Rachael Leigh Cook make pouty faces. "I'll sleep when I'm Dead" doesn't even have that little hope.

 I wish I could say that the acting was stellar but again just didn't live up to its potential . Clive Owens keeps the same sad expression on his face throughout the entire movie without ever explaining *why* he was so sour. Charlotte Rampling looked as if someone used her hard then hung her up wet, which probable could have been explained by her charter only her acting didn't seem to match. Malcolm McDowell's role was so out of place that the best I can figure Hodges realized that he was going to get a few hours of McDowell's time and didn't have time to write a part for him so instead just stole a scene from Caligola. Don't waste your time or money.