Of the 5 View Askewniverse films directed by Kevin Smith (Silent Bob in all 5), this one is probably the worst.  It doesn't have the sly social commentary of Clerks, the touching but romantic confusion of Chasing Amy, the sharp but worthwhile satire of Dogma, or the shameless but hilarious nostalgia of every film he's ever loved or made of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.  But even Kevin Smith's worst film is still going to be a lot better than many films, especially of the gross-out comedy type (and Mallrats qualifies).
In many ways, this film is an ode to the 80s with a 90s brush.  The mall has all the answers, according to Brodie, the comic-book loving (but socially inept) main character played by Jason Lee.  He and his friend T.S. (one of the London boys) are beleagured by girl problems, or by their own problems dealing with girls.  Having broken up with girlfriends played by Shannen Doherty and Claire Forlani respectively, they find refuge in the local mall, the hallmark of society's youth. Hijinks ensue (don't hijinks always ensue in a Kevin Smith film...?) among the misuses of chocolate cookies, the mysteries of those Magic Eye pictures, the horrors of a father gone insane, the joys provided by comic book stores, and the trials of trying to use the Force when you're not meant to.  They meet a variety of characters, including a pompous sales rep played by a pre-fame Ben Affleck and, of course, local (every VA film starts in New Jersey) junkies Jay and Silent Bob, who provide the film's biggest laughs.  Admittedly, if those characters didn't make their characteristic appearance, this film would be something worse than what it is.  The film comes complete with references to many pop-culture loves of Mr. Smith, including a good deal of Star Wars props.
This is the second film of the VA series, and if you're a Smith fan, it's still worth owning.  The film is funny and smart, despite it's clunkiness, especially in the parts with Jay and Bob - the comedy is high, and the laughs are real.  It's not the best picture ever made, even by Kevin Smith, but it's a good flick for belly laughs if you need the comedy.