"The Mountain Men" is about two aging trappers, Bill Tyler (Charlton Heston) and Henry Frapp (Brian Keith), and their adventures during the waning days of the Rocky Mountain beaver trade (1840's?).  Despite their dissimilar personalities, Tyler is a taciturn loner and Frapp is boisterous and outgoing, they've been friends for decades.  With beaver getting scarce and the price of plews bottoming out, Tyler and Frapp face changing times.  However, they continue to search for an elusive valley where it is said the beaver are so plentiful that they're just begging to be caught.  Along the way they meet up with Running Moon (Victoria Racimo),the runaway abused wife of a Blackfoot chief, Heavy Eagle (Stephen Macht).  Needless to say, Heavy Eagle wants both his wife back and Tyler's scalp- although we get the impression he is far more interested in the later.

As a film "The Mountain Men" is pedestrian.  It's not too hard understand why it was box office and critical flop.  It's direction is bland, the musical score is overblown, and plot is full of ridiculous implausibilities.  For example: characters are shown wandering around a vast wilderness yet they bump into their friends with a frequency that would be tough to attain if they lived in a small suburb.  Also this is the kind of film in which Indian warriors apparently withdraw from battle to allow for maudlin, overwrought death scenes to be performed without interruption.

Further, all the AmerIndian characters are portrayed by non-AmerIndian actors.  And everyone speaks English- so Crow, Blackfeet, and mountain men all speak the same dialect of Southern Califorinese.  Also this is one of those movies in which Indian warriors throw their lives away by charging (on foot!) right into the muzzles of their enemies' rifles.  If the real Blackfeet were as incompetent at warfare as they are shown here then they would have never garnered their fearsome reputation.

The weaknesses of this movie are glaring.  However, it does have Chuck Heston who brings his considerable amount of screen presence to the film.  Although that thing he is wearing on his head is a distraction (I'm not talking about his hat), Heston takes to these historical roles like a duck to water.  Brian Keith, who is unfortunately saddled with a lot of over-the-top vulgar dialogue, shows that he was always an underrated actor.  Also, not even a hack director can screw-up the beauty of Wyoming (I'll join the chorus- why wasn't the DVD presented in widescreen?)

Finally, I'm a big fan of A.B. Guthrie's mountain man novel, "The Big Sky" and it's obvious that Frasier Heston, the screenwriter, is too.  How the characters talk and what they talk about seemed to have been lifted wholesale from Guthrie's novel.  So much so that I wonder if Guthrie's estate ever asked for royalties.  "This child," "gone under," "shines," the use of the "n" word, and the sense of loss of a country that was free and unspoiled about to overtaken by others less inclined to leave it untouched are all from Guthrie's novel.

Overall, if you're interested in mountain men and/or a fan of adventure films then you may enjoy this movie. Although be prepared to suspend your disbelief throughout.