Unforgiven was a fantastic ppv. This ppv started and continued some good feuds and also had some very great matches. The ppv was very well put together.

1. Intercontinental Title
Ric Flair vs. Carlito
This was a great opener. It did everything what an opener is supposed to do, it got the crowd pumped for the ppv. Carlito trys to work on the arm of Flair. It had a nice little brawl on the outside. The crowd really went nuts when Flair pulled off a successful move off the top rope. Also had a good finish to the match. 3.75/5

2. Divas Tag Match
Trish Stratus & Ashley vs. Victoria & Torrie Wilson w/ Candice Michelle
This tag match really impressed me. It was quite good. Victoria and Torrie isolates Ashley in this one and teaching her what wrestling is all about. Ashley does however gets thrown to the outside very roughly to say the least by Torrie. Trish had a good showing. Trish pulled off a good counter at the end to score with the chick kick. 3.25/5

3. Big Show vs. Gene Snitzky
Ugly match but this too was quite a good match with these two big men. Good impact moves and Snitzky even hits a good looking back suplex on Show. The after match assault with the ring bell added more to the match. 3.5/5

4. Shelton Benjamin vs. Kerwin White (Chavo Guerrero)
A good athletic match up here. They pulled off good counters and reversals. Some nice holds were used too. Shelton pulled off a great counter into the t-bone for the win. 3.5/5

5. Steel Cage Match
Matt Hardy vs. Edge w/ Lita
This is defiantely one of the most personal feuds ever in the WWE. It went a little slow at first but picked up as the match progressed. Hardy hit Edge with some hard right fists. Hardy takes some hard shots to the back of his head from the steel cage. Edge really then works on the head of Hardy shortly after. Both men hit some high risk moves including a powerbomb & a side effect from the top rope. Edge gets pretty bloody here. Edge also speared Hardy into the cage. The fans was really into this match. Great end with the leg drop off the top of the cage onto edge. 4.5/5

6. World Tag Team Titles
Lance Cade & Trevor Murdoch vs. Hurricane & Rosey
Average tag match. A few double teaming here and there. Hurricane takes a hard ddt on the floor by Murdoch which took Hurricane out. The match pretty much turned into a handicap match after that but still a decent tag match. 3.25/5

7. Chris Masters vs. Shawn Michaels
From the start Masters goes for the masterlock and hbk got in good counters to get out of those situations. They had a good brawl on the outside. Masters even powerbombs hbk into the ring post on the outside. Masters works on the back of hbk. Masters also stays in control for the majority of the match and just punishing hbk's back. I was surprised when Masters used Lex Luger's torture rack on Michaels. Great closing counters at the ending of the match. Great match. Probably Masters best match in the WWE. 4.75/5

8. WWE Championship
Kurt Angle vs. John Cena
This is also one of Cena's better matches he has fought in. Angle of course was just phenomenal and just applying submission holds on Cena. Cena also wrestled this match which was great to see. It did became a slugfest between the two at some points in the match. Angle hit cena with some good suplexes. Angle pulled off some good counters and reversals to cena's moves. A lot of close near pin falls. The dq was only to continue the rivaly and the brawl after the match & the FU through the announce table was pretty good. Good way to end the night and to continue the rivaly. 4/5

This is one of the best Unforgiven ppvs ever so I recommend on picking this up.