As a great fan of Kubrick's work, it pains me to say that this is one of the most hideous films i've ever forced myself to sit through (twice - once in the old pan-and-scan edition and once in the restored widescreen edition).
The restoration is indeed terrific, and the widescreen presentation does give the film a certain cinematic sheen that makes it seem *somewhat* less like a high-budget/low-taste television miniseries, but ultimately it's hard to ignore what complete drivel this is.
The film opens with a disgruntled and filthy slave called "Spartacus" working in a quarry under the cruelest of conditions.  As the film wears on and "Spartacus" enters gladiatorial training, and then escapes the yoke of captivity altogether to lead a massive slave rebellion, the unformed brute transforms into a gentile lover.  This metamorphosis is completely unsupported in any rational sense of plot; at best, it may correspond with his improving personal hygiene or his increasing proximity to the lovely-but-undeveloped Varinia.
Rather than focusing on the rather interesting legend/history of the Spartacus uprising, the film follows the same worn-out leading-man/love-interest-oriented tract that somehow worms its way into virtually every Hollywood epic and almost invariably dominates and ruins it.  Instead of "Spartacus," this picture would have been more-aptly entitled "Boring Epic Romance 533-B."
However, there are two good performances:  Olivier does great work, as always, and so does Charles Laughton.  Kubrick, on the other hand, might as well have been vacationing in Antarctica for all the presence of his directorial touch here, and Tony Curtis is bizarrely miscast and consequently pretty pathetic (although the snails and oysters scene between him and Olivier is worth seeing from a film history point of view).  Personally, i prefer to think of Kirk Douglas as Dax in Paths of Glory, in which both he and Kubrick were excellent.
In fact, i passionately recommend everything else by Kubrick.  But when a director disowns a film it's generally for good reason, and that's certainly true in this case.