If you're looking for a truly great love story involving a couple's bout with Alzheimer's, forget the movies.  Read the book "A Promise Kept" by Robertson McQuilken.  Robertson was a college president for over 20 years, and he resigned from his position to care for his wife Muriel, who was in the advanced stages of Alzheimer's at that time.  As he said in his resignation letter: [Muriel] has cared for me fully and sacrificially all these years; if I cared for her for the next 40 years I would not be out of her debt.  Duty, however, can be grim and stoic.  But there is more: I love Muriel. ...I don't *have* to care for her.  I *get* to!  It is a high honor to care for so wonderful a person."  Contrast that with Jim Bayley's abusive outburst towards his wife in the film, when he shakes her and screams at her "I HATE you, Iris, you stupid cow!  I bloody loathe you, every bloody inch of you!  All your frienda are finished with you...  I've got you now, and I DON'T WANT YOU!"  Then again, Robertson and Muriel's story didn't have the complicated issues of self-centeredness, jealousy, and control that Jim and Iris's story did.  Robertson and Muriel have lived lives of fidelity, integrity, and commitment, and they both understood that marriage is first and foremost about personal sacrifice.
I found it disappointing and rather annoying that in the film they had Iris repeat "Just hold tight to me and it'll be alright" and "Nothing matters except loving what is good" over and over, ad nauseum, throughout the film, as though those two lines were representative of her profundity.  Didn't prove it to me, I'm afraid.  But it did make me want to read what she actually *did* say and write, so I consider that to be a beneficial side-effect of watching the DVD.  The one line she spoke that I did consider to be profound was when she told Jim he should accept her for who she was.  It was obvious that he had difficulty doing this, both when she was young and promiscuous, with divided affections, and when she was old, confused and docile from Alzheimer's.  The film portrayed her as happy and lovingly childlike, yet Jim seemed to be so focused on who she was in the past that he didn't seem to be able to find any delight or appreciation for the person she was in the present.  She was no less lovable because she was no longer able to function as she previously had.
The music for the film was absolutely lovely.