They wasted a golden opportunity IMHO! This film is just more of same ol same ol sci fi in my opinion, but at least they had sense enough to not make it a high tech clone of the original TV series because that was ultra ultra lame and watchable only by bored kids of the era that nothing to choose from basically (I confess I was one of those kids and likely saw every episode multiple times I am ashamed to say now)

  As for the opportunity missed?  That clearly would have been to pattern the film more after the original Swiss Family Robinson, rather than loosely using the ULTRA LAME TV series!  Shoulda Coulda been much more of an earth like planet only with bizarre creatures and natural wonders. Loose Dr Smith and the terrorist angle too! The film would have then had the opportunity to be something that sparks imagination and escape to a place the audience would love to imagine their selves in! It could still have had plenty of action and suspense besides with gobs of opportunity like child characters becoming best friends with certain of the planet's creatures etc.  It could even have begun with them landing through some kind of solar fog that through all the gismos for detecting the surroundings out of whack and landing in a huge desolate crater or something that at first makes it appear they were doomed on a dying world and trapped inside an area with hopelessly steep razor sharp jagged faces towering thousands of feet 360 degrees around them ...until of course like Alice in Wonderland one of the characters (a youngster of course)spots some adorable creature and chases after it until it disappears into a long winding natural tunnel that ultimately emerges into an unbelievable alien paradise.  ...I mean just for instance! Something ANYONE would love to watch from little ones to the hoary headed oldsters like myself.  Just imagine such a film done using the tech of Avatar!  Endless opportunities here!

  I believe that the world in which we now live truly has grown "old like a garment" so that we are right up to the brink doomsday.  Somehow most folks sense this too even without the benefit of that most published and influential Book that needs not even to be named. For the majority of folks there is nothing to look forward to now but a certain fiery indignation. When confronted with what is just about to occur, we simply chose our pride rather than fessing up and pleading piteously for mercy (like certain Ninevites of old did do) until finally now already I suspect it is far too late for those of us this applies too.  I am afraid there is only an remnant of the ones chosen by unmerited favor to have eyes opened (in other words grace)(BTW folks who would be invisible, especially to the world, ultimately known only by the Creator and perhaps themselves) So movies like I describe could at least have the potential to cheer the dying (and regardless your take on my beliefs no one can deny we are ALL a dying in this flesh!)

Like I say, a missed opportunity