Sandra Bullock at her comedic best with a host of supporting roles that makes this romp through the Miss America(?) pageant hilarious. Besides Sandra's dominance of the film as FBI Agent Gracie (Graceful) Snow (Pure)--get the name?, support comes from nearly everyone. Michael Caine is hired by FBI Agent Benjamin Bratt (the hunk from Law &amp; Order) to help the rather unfeminine Sandra compete as a contestant for Miss America. 
As always, Caine plays the character flawlessly and, in addition, also happens to be gay adding a flamboyance to the role. Despite his comedic importance, Captain Kirk (William Shatner), a little feminine himself, is the pageant emcee. Kirk? He pulls it off well even without the Klingons. Candace Bergen is the head of the pageant and a former Miss America and isn't her Murphy Brown self but she's not supposed to be--watch to find out why.
Sandra is thrust into the role to thwart an assassination of pageant winner. Even though most would like Sandra to win, she can't and somehow finds the killer, delivers some punch with Caine, makes her boss (Bratt) get the hots for her, and ends up being just one of the girls.
The film is a delicious take-off of the "beauty syndrome" with Sandra bringing in pizza and beer to the objections of some contestants that it'll make them fat. Sandra says, "Well, she's just going to throw it up anyway."
Despite a unnoticed thin plot--comedies don't need elaborate plots as the bozo that reviewed this article for Amazon.com says, Sandra and her ensemble of dimwitted FBI agents, a flaming Beauty Consultant Caine, and Captain Kirk makes this film a must see. It is certainly Sandra's redemption for 28 Days. 28 days was funny in parts but Miss Congeniality was funny from beginning to end. Caine's performance almost comes quite close to stealing the show and Kirk so overacts the part to make him extremely effective. A don't miss for anyone especially Sandra fans.
Felecia Constance Rowe
Chairwoman and CEO
Teardropfilms, Ltd.