I read somewhere that "Volcano" costed more than another little volcano flick called "Dante's Peak". After seeing this movie, I find that very hard to believe. All the money must've gone into either making the lava look realistic or champaigne for the cast and crew, because this is nothing but a sloppy mess of a film. I'm going to break up this review into the three words I mentioned earlier: stupid, bad, and painful.
STUPID: This word sufficiently describes the movie as a general whole. I'm not commenting on the possibility of a volcano erupting in California (I'm not a geologist!). I'm commenting on everything else. The plot is unbelievably weak, and all the subplots are even weaker. Characters didn't act like people; they acted like...well, who knows what they acted like? How do cardboard cutouts act like? I found it very difficult to care about anything that was going on. One of the best examples was where they were causing a building to fall to divert the flow of lava. The character played by Tommy Lee saw his daughter in the building's path, and he rushes to save her. Guess what? They emerge from the scene alive! Ugh! Which brings me to my next point:
BAD: The acting was painfully bad. Tommy Lee, the same man who impressed me in "The Fugitive" and "Men in Black" loses a lot of respect by being in this movie. And the other actors? Just as bad. There is virtually no chemistry between the characters, which only makes things worse, and scenes that are supposed to be emotional fall flat. And this brings us to the final point:
PAINFUL: The dialogue in the movie is just that. It's so forced, so unnatural, that I nearly fell sick. And the times it tries to be so philosophical and tear-jerking...even more painful. The best example is near the end, where everyone is covered in ash and dust and therefore colored gray. A little boy looking for his mother says something like "Look. Everyone looks the same." Now, I know this was supposed to be referring to everyone's symbolic unification, despite gender or history or ethnic background, to stop the lava from destroying everything...but it was so bad I felt like crying, crying at how low filmmaking had fallen.
"Volcano" is not worth anyone's time. It has nothing to draw anyone's interest, because everything just falls flat. Do yourself a favor and steer clear of this slush pile of a film.