My kids bought me this dvd for my birthday.  I ripped it open and popped it in the player, eagerly anticipating old childhood memories to resurface.  I own the VHS original, but I haven't watched it for quite some time, so I was a bit excited to get the 'new and improved' version.  I also proceeded with a bit of trepidation because I had heard that there were changes made to the movie that many don't appreciate.  After watching, I can understand and share much of their displeasure.  Spielberg traversed dangerous ground and almost made a classic movie into a cartoonish travesty.  Almost.

First, the scene in the beginning where ET is running from men in the woods was redone so that ET is now Computer Generated, and you actually see him running through the forest.  In the old version you see ET moving through the woods, and admittedly he doesn't seem to be running, as he smothly coasts over the forest floor.  In my chilhood imagination, I always attributed this to the fact that ET had special powers.  Heck, ET could fly - so obviously he used his powers to glide seamlessly over the forested carpet.  But nooooo... Spielberg took all imagination away by creating an ET that looks like Kermit the Frog leaping on lilly pads.  It was truly silly.  Next, in the original scene where ET is walking over the hill towards the town, you only catch a glimpse of him as he goes over the crest of the hill - but in the new and "improved" scene, you see the entire ET walk off and over the crest, stealing all of the mystique and wonder of the moment.  The whole beginning of the movie was pretty much ruined.  It gets a little better from there, but throughout most of the movie the old ET is replaced by computer generated images.  Sometimes the old ET is still there, but you can always clearly see when the old ET is there versus the new ET.  ET was not ET anymore.  It was truly distracting and disappointing.  There were also a couple of deleted scenes added.  They weren't bad, but it was pretty evident why these scenes were deleted in the first place.  They didn't seem to quite fit.

Still, even with all of the nonsense, I admit that it was still enjoyable.  My little kids liked it, they laughed; and were sad when ET "died", and sad again at the end when he went home.  There was still enough of the old magic left to make it worthwile.  The movie was decent, but the extra features are probably the best thing about this release.  If you have the original, I'd say don't bother with this one.  Why mess with a masterpiece?