Beware!  SOME SPOILERS!

Since Z. Hayes did an excellent job reviewing the general content of the film, I won't go over it again and I'm writing this review from the viewpoint that you, whom is reading this, have already seen the first Cranford.  This continuation does leave you wanting but not in a good way.  The film seems unfinished with a bunch of half attempts to cover potential plotholes (unless there is plan to make another continuation after "Return to Cranford" with further explanation as to what happens--if that's the case, I take back those last two sentences).

While the original Cranford seemed to be light and fun, in spite of life's obvious tragedies, this film is far more dismal.  Some of the story, rather than building up anticipation for what's going to happen next seemed as if it were there as time filler.  Also there were way too many parts that were just plain cheesy.  Case in point, Mattie is awaiting her friends at the train station.  She has urged them to try out the train in view of the town's attempt at progression and modernization that has been a huge concern for our heroines.  No one has arrived.  The train pulls up and comes to a halt while smoke emerges from underneath the train and out of nowhere Matttie's four friends emerges from the smoke arm in arm.  LOL!

What really saved Part 1 of this set is the appearance of Septimus, Lady Ludlow's long-awaited son, and his dealings with Harry Gregson, the beneficiary of Mr. Carter's estate.  Other than this, there's not much meat to the other storylines.  Of course, there is the inevitable love story (which is always a good thing) but still even that was predictable and not that all convincing.

The beginning of Part 2 is much better with the discovery and agony of forbidden love affairs, a broken engagement, a defying of social expectations, and some of the fun gossipy deliciousness of the first Cranford but it starts get corny again towards the end.

I hate somewhat comparing the two Cranfords but I'm sure that my being hopelessly prejudiced by the first (LOVED IT!!) dashed the high hopes to the second.  For me, the movie was just ok.