My brother and I love African accents that are used in over the top rage, one of the quotes we two just love to repeat was the line said by the actor who plays this film's main character, the lone man, Isaach De Bankol&eacute;, in Casino Royale: "YEW THOTT YEW COOD LOOZ OLL THOTT MUNNY AND NO-WON WOOD NOE-TISS?!", I'm laughing now and just shouted it in full vigor at my brother and now he's laughing, but we're just weird like that, anyway I saw the trailer for this movie and thought 'No way! he has a lead role?!' now bear in mind, though I've seen and enjoyed Broken Flowers, also directed by this film's Jim Jarmusch (forgive me if I've misspelled it), I didn't know what I was in for.  I was led by the film trailer to think that this film was about a stoic badass kicking ass and the stoic badass happens to be the "YEW THOTT YEW COOD LOOZ OLL THOTT MUNNY AND NO-WON WOOD NOE-TISS?!" guy, who offered yet more of his deep syrupy accent! So I waited...

  I finally got my hands on it!  Cheated on my little brother by watching it first to see if he would enjoy it because he's more of a mindless action fan, who's only just hit the surface of wanting more substance from his cinema as he matures.  It has been three weeks and I still haven't shown it to him for two reasons: One is because our man doesn't say much, in fact, the trailer didn't mislead me at all: Isaac is stoic as a bronze bust of Nixon...stoic as hell! And two is because my brother is simply not ready for a film like this unless he's ready to go to sleep for the night.

  This film is like the many images of the country side as the lone man rides the train, it moves at a smooth, steady, and unyeilding pace to a destination and once you get lost, you're flippin' lost.  The film's reality is dreamlike: their are no named characters, themes are repeated through poetic coincidences, there are some small hints of the supernatural, the actions, tensions, and conflicts are subtle and choose not to stick out from whatever message you can derive from the film...REMEMBER! "from whatever message YOU can derive from the film"

  As Jarmusch himself said in the equally calm behind-the-scenes special features of this DVD (which I have to paraphrase because I don't exactly know how he said it verbatum) 'I think that what you don't know is more fascinating than what you do know' and he has executed just that and has hooked me successfully!  As quiet and unassuming and poetic and beautiful as this movie is, I enjoy it by ripping it apart with my mind to find the truths the philosophies the real meat that's buried deep within its surreal exterior...this is art ladies and gentlemen, as the pope said "It is what it is..."

  Will you enjoy this? I don't know, it depends on how introspective you can get...to me, the film is beautiful, shot mainly in Spain, the sounds are hypnotic especially the scene where the performers rehearse their show in a dark club, the sound is just riveting! I watch it again and again, there is so much to speculate but I fear the day that I can figure everything out!