For sheer entertainment value, this documentary is riveting and oddly compelling, however, since this film asserts several truth claims that can't be substantiated, the rating for the film must suffer accordingly. The film relies on the methodology used to support most conspiracies: when a certain artifact is viewed from an unorthodox perspective or is juxtaposed against something which seemingly has no relationship to the artifact, then the shocking truth is revealed. You can see this approach in the Darkside of the Rainbow theory: Because certain Pink Floyd songs are eerily synchronistic when played against classic films, then, unequivocally, Roger Waters and the rest of Pink Floyd must have purposefully timed their tracks to these movies (never mind corroborating this conjecture with 3rd party evidence and other sources or comparing this theory with more parsimonious explanations--it has to be the truth because a strange coincidence is the sole determining criterion)!

Perhaps Weidner's greatest leap of faith is taken in the first 5 minutes of the film, as he asserts that the Pentagon and U.S. government contacted Kubrick to fake the Moon landing. This assertion is based on two primary conjectures: (1) Because the B-52 scenes in Dr. Strangelove were so convincingly realized (at least for its time), Kubrick was the man for the job to fake the Moon Landing and (2) The U.S. wanted to fake the film evidence of the Moon landing so as not to reveal their state-of-the-art technology to the U.S.S.R. With this central premise, the rest of the film analyzes Kubrick's oeuvre in this light.

After making this audacious claim, Weidner sees no need to substantiate it with 3rd party evidence, and there are at least two ways in which Weidner could have easily bolstered his position: (1) If, as Weidner claims, the whole impetus for faking the film for the Moon landing was to conceal the technology from the Russians, why not get at least one of the presumably thousand of engineers that worked on the NASA equipment to state that the technology displayed on video and film broadcast to the public bared no resemblance whatsoever to the craft, etc., that they designed. (2) Kubrick's activity during the mid-to-late sixties is well-documented. Weidner suggests in the film that not only was Kubrick leading a double-life, privately faking the Moon landings, but that the time and effort required to convincingly fake the Moon landing was so labor-intensive as to drive him to the edge of madness. If this is so, show us the evidence that he was missing for long stretches of time, and make it certain that he was taking huge scheduling breaks from the pre-production and production phases of 2001, a movie that was known for it's extremely demanding schedule.

Weidner then suggests that the films made after 2001 are double-coded; they are on the surface Kubrick's adaptations of popular works of fiction, but on a deeper level, they are vehicles through which Kubrick can inject his own autobiography and his own ordeal over his involvement with the Moon landing. There are several problems with this thesis, but here are a few: (1) If Kubrick's ambition was to double-code his films with his own autobiographical struggle, why was the project that he spent his greatest passion on--a film that was to be the pinnacle of historical accuracy--the Napoleon project, a film that he couldn't inject autobiographical details into? (2) If the Shining was to be a concealed autobiographical statement, surely the documentary of the making of the Shining by Vivian Kubrick would have caught some overt or covert slips, clues, "wink winks" to this conclusion, but, there are none. (3)Finally, if the characters in the Shining are to mirror Kubrick's real life, then why would Shelley Duvall (a woman who is the antithesis of Christiana Kubrick in every way: appearance, temperament, background) be chosen to play Kubrick's wife?

Given these failings, however, I would still recommend the film for entertainment value and interesting viewing. Just as Weidner suggests there is a compromise "third" position that falls in between the two main positions regarding the Moon landing (one position firmly believing it was a hoax and one position adamantly defending the veracity of the Moon landings), I would suggest a third, compromise position to this film. Judging from the reviews on this film, people are either blown away by the evidence that Weidner puts forth or radically dismissive of the film. I think a third position is in order: one that allows one's self to be entertained by the film and to give Weidner credit for the lengths he goes to support his position but to also realize that the assertions made in this film are too incredulous and implausible to be regarded as the definitive case on Kubrick. In many ways Weidner's analysis of Kubrick's films (particularly the Shining) are mind-bending and brilliant, at least on the merit of creativity (to digress, Weidner's analysis of the Shining begs the question: What strain is Weidner smoking and is it widely available for public consumption?), but a lot more legwork needs to be done to make these hypotheses anywhere close to truth claims.