This film should never have happened. Right from the start, Rap music blasts the F and N every other word.  One does not have to be a child to be offended by this vulgar and ignorant rythmic ranting. There are many talented and yes educated musicians willing to work and has the talent to be called musicians.
The film lacks directorship as clearly indicated by the sensationalism of drugs.  Most audiences for this type of film will be teens and young adults targeting once again the young and vulnable of America. Possession and the  distribution of ECTASY IS illegal, yet, the directors allowed the sensationalized and simulated use of the drug just as casual as taking an aspirin.  Sensationalizing this drug on screen to anyone is building the hype that could and unfortunately does lead to ingesting the drug, destoying the user, their family and others.  Communities and families struggle daily with drugs, their abuse and death of our young people.
 Directors who allow the sensationalism of drugs on the screen to anyone should be dealt with by the public  accordingly.  Sensationalizing drugs is enabling and if directors cannot use professional judgment in allowing the flagrant use of drugs such as what was evident in this film should be illegal, since we cannot trust the film industry to use any moral or  decent judgment and lets not forget the Political agenda that pushed during one of the numerous sex scenes. Films such as this should be cancelled well before it comes to the screen.  Most disappointing was the fact that Blockbuster was in association with Image and Rigel Entertainment.  Blockbuster the "family video store," needs more professional critics to view these films before they support drugs, filth, vulgarity and lack of acting and directing skills and someone's political agenda.  I was suprised to see Stephen Rea appear in such a gangly and poor attempt at screenwriting and filmmaking. The one star rating only appears because I cannot truly rate this film in the minus.  I have always liked Stephen Rea, but I will be more apprehensive in the future to watch any other film featuring him.  I do not believe in censorship however, this film needs to be removed from the public.