I can honestly say I've never been more torn about a movie before. I'll freely admit I saw it based on: "Twins play sex games with American student in 1968 Paris." Uncut NC-17 led me to believe there was good sex, sensuality. Not in this movie. There's a lot of full frontal nudity, male and female. Did I say a lot? There is some sex and a particularly graphic scene, in fact. But none of it is sexy. None of it will give you that little twinkle in your eye. All the sex, all the nudity, all the sounds of sex (lots of those too), are part of the flow of the story ... a means to an end.

  The background was a bit confusing. The three meet and get together because they have an obsessive interest in cinema and are protesting the ouster of France's Cinematic Director. That sets in motion (eventually) the [Anarchist/Worker] uprising of May 1968. Don't expect more about that, though, it's touched on at the beginning and then you get another 5 minutes at the end.

  There really isn't much story. I figure they cut half the movie out for "varied" reasons and put the other half on the screen. Maybe to save it from an "X" rating? I can't figure it out. Sorry if I'm spoiling something here, but I think the gist is fairly obvious: incestuous twins bring in american boy to [assuage guilt, have fun with, etc]. The [assuage guilt, have fun with, etc] should have been the plot. It was never given the chance.

  There was the girl/guy relationship -- allowed to play out. There was also supposed to be a guy/guy relationship (read about some of it - too risqu&eacute;) AND an incestuous relationship. That relationship did NOT exist in this movie. Psychologically, yes, but never really physically consummated. There is one scene where they hold each other topless while asleep. No other physical contact is had. At the end a feeble attempt is made to make us believe there was such a relationship, but passing out facing one way with all clothes on ... fade to black ... waking up naked with bodies askew - when no such act has even been intimated throughout the entire movie - is a little much to believe. This one scene has the weight of the movie on it. One scene to make you believe everything you'd seen up to that point was unimportant? Come on.

  Had we been allowed to concentrate on the true dilemma, I think this movie would have been the ultimate.

  Why three stars? Because I didn't move the entire time. Not once. I was completely and totally captivated. Every piece of this move - every action, every piece of scenery, costume, etc., all of it was so precisely  placed it was unbelievable. When the movie ended I felt like I had been played for a fool. I wanted to scream, "Hey, I want my 2 hours back!" (or at least give me a better ending.) Then it occurred to me that I truly had been entranced. So that's why the three stars. It's been a very long time since I didn't look at my watch or go get something to drink or hit pause for one reason or another during a movie.