NO SPOILER ALERT NEEDED HERE.  THIS IS A REVIEW, NOT A SYNOPSIS

The topic of this film, coming of age as a Palestinian girl in Israel, will leave few viewers without strong points of view.  Each of us has a bias.  I will do my best to present the subject matter and the film's artistic value fairly.

First of all, the actors were believable.  Each one embraced his/her roles and their performances gave dimension to their characters.  The use of Arabic, Hebrew, and English was appropriate depending on the scenes in which they were used.  Subtitles were supplied when English was not spoken.  (The viewer can use subtitles as an option on the DVD.)  The costuming and hairstyles were authentic to the periods covered (1947-1994).  The modes of transportation represented the times, as well.

Photography was a different matter or, perhaps it was the editing.  The director made good use of fading colors in certain scenes.  It helped to convey setting and emotions.  There were times, however, while watching this video, I felt like an outsider, seeing moving snapshots, seemingly disconnected.  As the film progressed, colors were more consistent and so too, the reduction of choppiness in the editing.  Overall though, the editing was not as smooth as I would have liked as scenes transitioned.

Scenery was definitely a strong point.  Whether it was in the Arab towns, the school, the Israeli checkpoints, the Arab 'suk' (market), or in various apartments, each looked quite natural and not staged.

The character, Miral, is the protagonist.  We see through her eyes.  It is her point of view that speaks to us.  As a child, she lives in a school dormitory with other children who have experienced the loss of parents and homes.  Some of these losses are the result of Arab-Israeli conflicts.  From her perspective, the Israeli government is to blame.  It is allowing settlements in lands formerly occupied by Arabs.  Miral sees Israelis as her enemy.  In only one instance does she speak with an Israeli who seemingly doesn't care which side she is supposed to support.  And that confuses Miral.  I wish the film had explored further both the relationship and the feelings of these two characters.

This film is poignant, focusing on relationships: of a father and daughter; a woman's love of children; and of political groups with diverging agendas.  It encompasses political passions and resonates with distrust and hatred.  Yet, the words on the screen at the finale, beseech us to seek peace.  Had the presentation of the subject been more even-handed, those words might have been meaningful.  As they stand, they are hollow.