If you love the "A nightmare on Elm Street" movies, this is for you. EVen if one or two aren't that great, this boxset is way easier than buying the four or five dvd's you love. I mean, 7 movies , a bonus 8th disk and a booklet descussing all 7 movies for only 80 dollars is a very good price.So, instead of looking at the two or three small things it doesn't come with, you're better off looking at the positive of it. However, if you only like maybe one or two of the films, you're better off buying just those dvds. THis is only for fans whom enjoy the majoroty of the series films. ( if you don't, lets face it you're simply wasting your hard earned money) Now, for those of you who haven't seen these films I will give a short run down of them ( with NO spoilers)

A Nightmare on Elm Street part 1 - Classic film and the best of the series, Freddy is probably the most frightening in this one, a cult classic. Even if you hate the rest, i'm sure you will love this one. It starts out as a young teen girl's (Heather Langenkamp) friends start dying in their sleep by you guessed it Freddy Krueger, as the movie goes on you learn a little about Freddy's history and how he came to be,Johnny Depp's movie debut. I give this 5 out of 5 stars.

A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2. How do you follow up a great movie like the first? Well, eh. They really didn't, one of the worst installments in the series right after the best (go figure)

A young man moves into the same house as the girl from the first movie (Heather Langenkamp) and Freddy uses his body to come back, this movie suffers from havin a poor leading man and a leading woman that is too ditzy, however Robert England doesn't dissapointed and is as scary as the first, making this atleast watchable. I give it 2.5 out of 5 stars.

A Nightmare on Elm Street part 3 This right here, should have been part two, bring's back Heather Langenkamp's character and her father, this time she finds some teenagers in a mental institution, who have been having some pretty bad dreams..... this movie has strong acting by every character (even the ones who don't stay very long) here Freddy gets a bit of humour, while staying scary though ( the humour isn't over done like in future movies) I give this 5 out of 5 stars.

A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 4. sees the return of the surviving members of part 3, however, if you loved, part 3 the first 20 minutes or so might be a little vexing to you.Features a new hero (lisa) and her often dim witted yet charismatic boyfriend. This movie isn't great but definetly good has good actors and a few bad ones, Freddy is still Freddy and this is one of the better sequals. I give this 4 out of 5 stars.

A Nightmare on Elm Street part 5 Sees the return of Lisa. The story is Freddy comes back and is turning her unborn baby into a prodidgy of himself. The plot is one of the best, just not acted out very well. Freddy gets a little too funny. Yet is full of likable heros. Also goes deeper in Freddy's history While it isn't the best it is far from the worst and one of the most under rated in the series. I give this 3.5 out of 5 stars.

A Nightmare on ELm street part 6. One of the worst, plot is not thought out well and freddy goes over the edge with humor, few people die and the deaths take way too long. However, you learn the most about Freddy in this movie and that is the main reason to watch it. The plot is, that there is only one more kid left on Elm Street (our old pal Freddy did away with the rest) however the final kid has a bad case of amnesia and can't recall anything. Features scenes with a pre-teen human Freddy and a teenage human version of him, with a guest appearence by Alice Cooper as Freddy's drunk abusive father. (maybe somebody should have told poor old Freddy just because you were abused, you shouldn't abuse others) I give this one 2 out of 5 stars.

Wes Craven's New Nightmare The biggest turn in the series, Freddy gets an upgrade and for the first time, is in the real world. With this plot, the "A nightmare on Elm Street" films are just that films. Heather Langenkamp stars as herself and Wes Craven is in it as just Wes Craven, however when Heather's son starts believing in him, he comes to life, when Wes finds this out he flees. ( I would have loved to have seen a Wes fighting Freddy scene.) A new twist is just what the series needed after part 6 but i'm glad Freddy went back to the world of fiction in "Freddy vs Jason" good film. I give this 4 out of 5 stars.

So in conclusion if you love the "A Nightmare on Elm Street" series Buy this now. Enjoy