Spike Lee's Bamboozled has a powerful premise: a Harvard-educated African-American television executive named Pierre Delacroix (Damon Wayans), frustrated at his inability to get serious projects about African-Americans placed on television, pitches the ridiculous concept of a revived minstrel show to his white bosses.  Thing is, his idea backfires because the bosses LOVE the idea.  So does the audience.  It becomes clear that Delacroix has underestimated the latent racism and bad taste of the American public.  
If this satirical premise sounds familiar, it's because it builds on one of the best comedies of all time: The Producers, Mel Brooks' first big hit.  Remember that film?  The producers tried to make a flop by staging a ridiculously grotesque musical called Springtime for Hitler, but the audience loved it.  But whereas The Producers was fairly light-hearted all the way through, the last third of so of Bamboozled turns way too heavy and ultimately pummels the viewer with a point that's already been made, again and again.  Spike Lee seems to think his film deserves a kidnapping and mass murder to make its point, which I think is a huge mistake.
Not to say Bamboozled had to be just funny all the way through.  Good satire hurts even while you're laughing.  And there are some truly inspired, thought-provoking moments in this movie.  Watching the African-American actors struggle with their consciences while donning the blackface; seeing how white individuals struggle to relate to black people, without full awareness of either their own inherent racism or the social structures that reinforce it: these things are great, and Spike Lee portrays them better than anyone else could.  I also liked the montage of blackface scenes from traditional American movies at the end, that shows better than anything the disrespect African Americans faced until recently.  But the minstrel show itself is neither funny nor particularly revealing, and the violent subplot doesn't really belong in the film at all.  Spike Lee would have done better, I think, to shorten the film and leave out the gang-related subplot.