How bad is this? Think "Glitter," "Ishtar," "Heaven's Gate," "Showgirls," and "Waterworld" all rolled into one. This film is an incomprehensible mess, a lugubrious blend of bad acting, bad dialogue, and just plain bad characters. The plot (such as it is) concerns a hitman (Affleck, whose laughable Brooklyn accent is even worse when one considers his character is from L.A.) who falls for a lesbian yoga instructor (Lopez, just as bad). Somehow, Al Pacino makes an appearance (your official nadir, Al), and Christopher Walken shows up for a short while (his small role is the only thing worth watching in this mess). The dialogue is just awful, especially when the characters attempt to engage in sexual double-entendres (a sample, while a turkey--how ironic!--is being prepared: JLo: "Gobble, gobble.") There's a plethora of foul language (I stopped counting the "F" word at around twenty-five, and the film was still relatively young), lots of stilted sexual content (the sex scenes involving the pair have zero chemistry and are uncomfortably voyeuristic); there's also a terrible segment in which JLo describes lesbian sex while doing yoga. I know Martin Brest is a capable--if not great--director (he helmed "Scent of a Woman."), but the way he tracks over JLo's body as she relates her experiences makes me think he came to this project straight from adult films. Despite all the sexual content, the film is desperately unerotic, probably due to the fact that we A: do not care about these characters, and B: they have absolutely no redeeming features. That's pretty much all you need to know, as further detail would simply be beating a dead horse. If you must see it, I have a couple of suggestions: Rather than waste seven to ten dollars on this turkey at the theatre (I was lucky enough to be offered a free pass if I would review it for another website), I suggest waiting for home video--but don't rent it immediately! Wait until it's in the ninety-nine cent section. Or better yet, wait for it to appear on cable. The less you spend to see this mess, the better!