On stranger tides follows the continuing story of Jack Sparrow after the end of At World's End. Taking place several years later, after Jack's map lead him to a dead end, he continues the search for the fountain of youth. I could say that the movie was OK, but suffered from several issues that just did not put it on par with any of the previous movies.

The first issue was the antagonist, Blackbeard. Although he had a dramatic intro, after that, his character just waned. He was not intimidating, scary, or even particularly piraty. At no point could they decide what supernatural powers to give him, so they toss him a giant hodgepodge of whatever was convenient at the time. As a result, one minute he has the mystical power to control rope, another moment he can shrink ships into bottles, another moment he can resurrect the dead, no, he can make voodoo dolls, wait, he can control the wind? His ship has... a flamethrower? They claim him to be evil, and spend the entire movie declaring how evil he is... but he doesn't perform a single evil act in the entire movie. He kills a mutineer and captures and leaves to die a vicious mermaid who murders people... that's it. Other than that, for a pirate, he was actually a pretty decent guy.

This leads to the next problem, they make all the other characters "good" so that Blackbeard seems evil in comparison. Pirates and thieves are suddenly altruistic and noble. Blackbeard's evil deed is being the only character in the movie that actually acted like a pirate, and not even a good one. This comes nowhere near the backstabbing, thieving, and traitorousness of the pirates of the first three movies. Suddenly Jack and Barbossa are best chums, this new girl which people keep saying added "much needed sex appeal" Angelica looks like a Latino stunt double of Swan. Her motivations, once again, despite being allegedly corrupted in evil, are completely altruistic and unpirate like.

The final issue is how every scene was done. I swear the directors and writers sat down with the scripts of the first three movies and said, what is your favorite scenes from each movie and how can we shove them all into one? Oh, I loved the scene where the Kraken grabs all those people up. Ok, let's have that scene with magical ropes instead. Oh, I love that scene where will and jack fight on the roof planks in the blacksmith shop. Sounds good, let's do that again with Jack and that Angelica. How about that scene where Davy Jones pulls out the long cannons. Great! We'll make it a flamethrower instead! What about the scene where Jack escapes the soldiers. Sure, but we'll have him escape from the middle of the estate now! What about the turner/swan love interest. Yeah, we can throw some altruistic guy in their so he can sloppily be corrupted by pirates while falling in love with an "unattainable" woman outside his station.

So yeah. That was the story. We have the antiheroes who have just turned into heroes, the bad guy that is little worse than any of the good guys, "needed" sex appeal that looks no different than the last 3 movies, except latin now. We have almost scene for scene grabs from the original trilogy, more poorly done and in the case of the relationship, was so out of place it could have just been left out.

I give it 3 stars, because it was an OK watch, had it's fun moments with Jack Sparrow, and there was occasionally some witty dialogue or interesting scenes. However, ultimately completely unnecessary and anyone who love the trilogy could completely go without watching this.

Edit: I figured I should add that Angelica, the latin girl, played by Penelope Cruz, an established actor, acts like, dresses like, and functions like swan from the second two movies. I am not comparing the actors... but that she was clearly a shoed in replacement for the swan character (scriptwise) and never really developed a personality of her own, I hope that solves the confusion.