I'm not entirely sure, even after a repeat viewing, what to think about this one.  I honestly love several other Brat Pack movies, i.e. The Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candles, and to a slightly lesser extent, Pretty In  Pink.  I was expecting this one, with its superb collection of 80s actors,  to find a new home on my list of favorites.
Unfortunately, I found  several of the plot points incredibly cliched and unrealistic.  For  example, Kevin (the always adorable Andrew McCarthy) spends altogether too  much time trading life views with a worldly prostitute.  The marriage of  Billy (Rob Lowe) seems overly cartoonish and stereotypical.  I had a hard  time drumming up any vestige of sympathy for his relentlessly loser-y  character.  I also felt that Judd Nelson's Alec was an irredeemable jerk  who didn't even deserve a chance at getting Ally Sheedy back after he  cheated on her multiple times.  Kevin went overboard after his one-night  stand with Leslie (Sheedy), suggesting that they immediately move in  together right after she just broke up with someone else!
Also, the plot  threads were resolved unbelievably quickly at the end, and the solutions  were pat and unconvincing.  Billy's quickie divorce (freeing him up to  sleep with Mare Winningham's virginal character) seemed too neat a way to  resolve his difficult marriage.  Leslie's giggling remark about it being  too hard to choose between Alec and Kevin because she loves them both  nearly made me gag, and Alec all of a sudden lost his jerkiness.  The  Emilio Estevez plotline where he chases an old flame played by Andie  MacDowell, just brings the flames to my cheeks.  It's constant humiliation  for Emilio's character, but at least his lack of reward is realistic.  Demi  Moore's portrayal of the drug-addicted Jules isn't too unconvincing, but  the resolution of her troubles is cheesily bad, as Billy tells her  (miraculously managing to keep a straight face as he does so) that she's  only making up her problems.  (Making up drug and sexual addictions?  Jules  must have a heck of an imagination!) The only moment in this movie that  actually made my heart twist even remotely is when Billy, longing for his  college heyday and maybe a real job, asks the old frat boys if they could  use him there again.  Their response? "Sure, we need someone to get us  some good drugs."  
All in all, I'd have to say that the Brat Pack  actors have all appeared in vastly superior films.  The music was the only  aspect of the movie that earned my unconditional approval.