Jane Campion, of "The Piano" fame, directed and co-wrote this film, which I can't neatly categorize as drama, melodrama, comedy, or horror parody. I suspect Campion may have thought she was cranking out a "cult classic" about cults, but the movie is too filled with nonsensical plot holes and character inconsistencies to really grab a mass audience or even a dedicated tribe of a few. 
I was prompted to rent the DVD after the return of Elizabeth Smart, the young teenage girl from Utah who was alleged to have been kidnapped. Upon her surprising return, there were suddenly rumors of brainwashing and cult activity. Being a child of pop culture, I instantly thought, "Hmmm, isn't HOLY SMOKE sort of about that same thing?"
The film does focus on a young, determined woman (Kate Winslet)who leaves her home and family behind to trek to India. Accompanied by a schoolmate, Winslet falls under the spell of a guru. She stays behind to practice her newly acquired faith, and her friend goes back to the Outback to alarm family and friends about Winslet's embracing of all things Asian. One instantly gets the feeling that these are people who are opposed to curry, saris, and meditation on principle. 
The heroine's family comes across as a ragtag lot of dopers, drinkers, adulterers, asthmatics, bigots, and Bible Belt-ers. They are a sorry group, and Campion exploits their flaws and foibles. Obviously, these are people who should not be judging anyone else's call to God, but they do, and their meddling naturally goes awry.
Pooling together their meager resources, they hire a world-famous American deprogrammer. He's embodied by Harvey Keitel, and his performance is best described as fearless and intense.
The relationship between "cult buster" and "cult hostage" walks a fine line between parody and paranoia. I can't believe such treatments are actually utilized--they seem to blur ethical lines and inflame Amnesty International concerns.
When all is said and done, this is a movie that exasperates and confounds. It seems to be three separate films stitched together: 1) an earnest treatise on who has the right to judge anyone's religious or ethical allegiance. Aren't we all free to worship and believe as we see fit? 2)a battle of the sexes, very derivative of "Swept Away" or "The Night Porter." 3) a comedy of manners in the style of John Waters's recent efforts or Baz Luhrman's early work.
It's a big, ambitious mess. If you really want to see a movie about cults and people who need rescuing, rent "Ticket to Heaven," starring Nick Mancuso, Meg Foster, and Kim Cattrall. If the premise of brainwashing is what grabs you, there's nothing better than "The Manchurian Candidate." (Or, if you just want to laugh at that cinematic device, go for "Zoolander.") 
The one thing I can say about "Holy Smoke" is the image of Mr. Keitel wearing lipstick and squeezed into a red minidress will haunt me for months to come. I might need a deprogrammer to expel that very surreal and disturbing image from my mind. All I can say to Ms. Campion and company is "Sari, wrong number, honey."