Intercontinental Champion Lance Storm vs. Edge - Lance Storm regards this as his best match during his WWE run and you could see why here.  These two put together a solid wrestling match and a very good opening match.

APA & Spike Dudley vs. Test & Dudley Boyz - Another good match here as everyone worked real well together in this good mix of brawling & wrestling.  This was probably one of the APA's best matches & the interfearence with Shane McMahon would play a role later.

WWF Lightheavyweight Champion Tajiri vs. WCW Crusierweight Champion X-Pac - This was a title vs. title match as these two put on the third solid bout for the night & the best match in the history of the Lightheavyweight Title.  The only problem was that this match could have gone on longer as it seemed like it was too short to really turn into something.

Chris Jericho vs. Rhyno - This was a storyline building up for over 2 months as Chris Jericho had never defeated Rhyno.  Stephanie was at ring but the match didn't revolve around her & was allowed to be something good.  It did get a little slow at times but it was never boring & another solid match overall.

Ladder Match: Hardcore Champion Jeff Hardy vs. Rob Van Dam - This didn't top their match at Invasion or live up the standards that the Hardyz set in ladder matches but it was still something to watch.  The only thing bad would be various blown spots as RVD tried to be innovative but the spots didn't go off as planned.  Good but sloppy at times.

Steel Cage Match: WCW Tag Team Champions Undertaker & Kane vs. WWF Tag Team Champions DDP & Kanyon - The Undertaker fued with DDP reaches it's climax & ends the same way it started & remained throughout the entire storying...with DDP getting completely destroyed.  WCW was made to look completely inferior here as Undertaker & Kane just beat up DDP & Kanyon who didn't get any offense in before they let Kanyon go so they could double team DDP & beat the living hell out of him.  Anyone who payed attention to this fued knew how this one was going to end & play out.  It's good if you are just a fan of glorified squashes but otherwise, it's nothing to watch as the whole match (and fued) was one-sided.

WWF Champion Stone Cold vs. Kurt Angle - This is a forgotten classic here as they told a great story of Austin being completely ruthless here & Angle was the hero that never gave up.  They went on for around 30 mins. & the match turned from Angle had to beat Austin to Austin could not beat Kurt Angle.  They ending involving the referees was kinda a jip but it didn't take away from the match itself as it was the match of the night & again, a forgotten classic encounter.

WCW Champion Booker T vs. The Rock - This match didn't come close to topping the previous one but it was a good choice to close the show.  The people's champion of the WWF meets the guy alot of people concidered the people's champion of WCW...who both just happened to have the same finishing move in the Rock Bottom/Book End.  These two had a fast paced match that had some entertaining moments including one where the APA come out & get revenge on Shane McMahon by giving him one of the stiffest lariats I've seen from Bradshaw.  This gave the fans what they wanted as The Rock returned to PPV & became the WCW Champion.

Overall, this along with Rebellion & Survivor Series were the best PPV's during the whole Invasion period of the WWF.  Every match here was solid (except the cage match) this DVD is worth the price.  I recommend.