The scenario opens with this delemna: Soviet nuclear weapons are being installed in Cuba, with Washington D.C. and every major American military base (except Seattle) within range - leaving the U.S. just 5 minutes away from Soviet first-strike nuclear capability, and the ensuing deaths totalling something like 80 million! The Cubans have denied the missles' existence, the Soviets have denied their existence, and the rest of the world doesn't know of their existence.  As things unfold, Kennedy realizes that he has to go to war with the Soviet Union, or else somehow he has to negotiate the removal of the nuclear warheads with a hostile Soviet government, without tipping his airstrike plans to remove them forcibly if negotiations fail. To complicate matters, the military establishment and the intelligence community are seething with anger over Kennedy's refusal to engage an all-out attack on Cuba during the failed Bay of Pigs invasion, and view his detente stance as tantamount to treason, for his willingness to strike a compromise with the Soviet "red-dog" that's "digging in OUR backyard!". They have a complete lack of confidence in his leadership, and a general consensus among themselves that the United States MUST engage the enemy in open warfare, up to and including open nuclear warfare!
There are a lot of ways to view this film - political, historical, drama. I tend to agree with the comment that it represents a worthy case-study of effective leadership under pressure. As a historical lesson, it hits harder than they're allowed to in the school textbooks, for it reveals a deep rift of insubordination on the part of the pentagon, coupled with an intense pressure to engage in warfare without genuine provocation, by some of the nation's influential military and intelligence leaders at that time. 
How Kennedy utilized the military establishment to further his mission, despite their open hostility to his viewpoints and policies, how he deftly avoided being baited into open confrontation with his military leaders, how they chafed under his leadership and struggled to circumvent his decisions, and how he manged to get through the crisis without being coaxed, coerced, cornered, or outsmarted into declaring open war with Russia is a lesson worthy of study.
Despite a few flaws (the family scenes with Kenny O'Donnell's wife &amp; kids are not well integrated, the b/w footage is distracting at times, there is a tad too much of O'Donnell [Costner] in the film), I give it 5 stars for great acting, excellent direction (you feel like a fly on the wall, observing the whole thing unwind), good pacing, and overall historical accuracy. 
Bruce Greenwood (JFK) and Steven Culp (Bobby Kennedy) deserve an award for their acting, but there are no weak performances in this film, and the confrontational scenes are electric with tension and testosterone. The subtlety of the body-language acting is impressive, and the photography/direction are also on an award-winning level.
Not an action-thriller by any means, the tension here is more on a psychological/political level, with the impending threat of out-and-out nuclear war providing the "sword of Damocles" that hangs over Kennedy's every hard-wrought decision, and imbues the film with it's 'serious-business' demeanor. If you have the patience to sit for two and a half hours (almost) of history unfolding before your eyes, then I highly recommend this well-presented docu-drama of a decidedly important chapter of recent American history that is often skipped-over lightly in the textbooks.