I love Al Pacino, and I really enjoyed the movie when I saw it last nighht. But now, thinking about it, alot of it seemed really ridiculous. I won't go into the story--many have done that already. But these are my points:
First, you would think that James would be a little suspicious of having to break into Layla's computer. I mean, Burke could've done so himself after hours or on the weekend. There was no reason to sneak into it while she was at work.
Second, what was the deal with Layla and Zack? It's never explained why they were working together--doing what? What was Zack's role? In fact, what job did Zack get after he finished at the Farm? And that note she passed to him? Duh, how about just telling him in person when they were at work. They are allowed to speak to eachother. And then why did Zack run and then fire at James? Makes no sense at all. In fact, it was one of the stupidest scenes in the movie.
Third, didn't James think it odd that he was working only with Burke? Burke was the head instructor at the Farm. Why would James be dealing with him on this mission? He also would've been hooked up with others, and given a thorough briefing on his new role as NOC. Not just told in a car by his instructor and then set to work. Again, really stupid.
Fourth, the ending is pretty dumb, when you think about it. And we don't really know what happened? Did James really wash out at the Farm? Was he really a NOC? Was he still in the CIA? He's sitting in a car with another spook, going to be debriefed, and the guy tells him that it's in "his blood." So what does that mean? Is he in or out?
Fifth, it seems that if Burke really wanted this program, he had enough access to figure out a simpler means of stealing it. He had enough clout there, and supposedly, as a spy of 27 years, enough brains to figure out something more foolproof, involving less people and less chance of a slip-up.
This could have been a good movie, as I liked the beginning about the training. But then it just slipped. Too many loopholes, too much idiocy, not enough real plot.