Note: The 1-star rating refers to this release, NOT the film itself.

This is by far not the best zombie film ever created. As a matter of fact it is not one of the best horror films ever created. It is a shadow compared to the original, which is completely hysterical, has very likable characters, yet is serious enough to create solid tension with a sense of forboding doom. Quite simply put, the original has become a masterpiece of 80's cinema. What Return II is, actually, is a slick-looking, cheesey 80's kiddie horror/comedy with good production values and make-up, and a just-likeable enough cast with a few clever touches thrown into the mix (like incorporating two of the lead actors from the original as different characters, paying an amusing homage to the orignal). To tell the truth, over the years, this flick, in all its cheesy glory has risen from the grave of "dead" movies in my heart to the staus of "undead". It has become one of my favorite guilty pleasures, so to speak, and I was looking forward to this DVD release like a warm cup of brains.

That being said, on to the DVD review. Before I go too far, let me just start by saying, I could not stomach to sit through the entire DVD.

From what I did see, picture quality was sharp enough, exhibiting little or no noticable print damage. Colors are bold and sharp in comparison with my VHS copy. Sound quality seems decent enough with little or no noticable hiss.

Here's where the tragedy begins.... Why, oh why, warner?

The soundtrack has been COMPLETELY changed from the version I am used to. (If you don't believe me, toggle through the audio to the french track and you will hear the original mono track.) They also added a CHEESY AS HELL voiceover at the beginning of the film that I guess is meant to explain the goings on from the first flick (treating us like morons, as if none of us have ever seen the orignal and have no clue what is going on). Now this is where I'm confused. The box and copy in the credits still sport the name of the original musician (the same as my VHS copy), J. Peter Robinson. Maybe there was an alternate cut of this film floating around with a different music soundtrack from the same musicain, but I have never heard of such a thing, and the style of the music is a far cry from the version I am used to. I could be mistaken, but the version I am used to on VHS (without that God awful opening dialoge and syth-crap soundtrack) is almost certainly the version I saw on the big screen back in the day. The only thing I can come up with is that maybe Warner wanted to release it with a stereo track and could't translate the original mono well, so they took alternate music from the same artist and substituted it. This is just speculation, but if it is the case, SHAME ON YOU WARNER for even attempting to improve on someone elses art, no matter how crappy that art may be. Remember beauty is in the eye of the beholder.

Or maybe its just another case of the creators tampering with their own work, tirelessy spending there life striving to correct past mistakes, not being able to move on (here's looking at you Mr. Lucas!!!) Move on and let us enjoy the crap we saw when we were young (or masterpiece if you are speaking of Star Wars). Let us continue to enjoy the movies of our youth unaltered, so we can see how advanced we were for the time and/or how far we've come since then.

Whew! Glad I got that off my chest.

Now avoid this release like the plague, and leave Warner to ponder why no one is buying this release. Let the copies rot like corpses on store shelves until Warner or someone else decides to ressurect this unsung slice of zombie cheese from the 80's and give it the attention it has earned.

For now "Send More Paramedics....."