BIG BROTHER IS WATCHING:  FACT OR FICTION
Enemy of the State, by David Marconi.  Buena Vista Pictures,1998.
Reviewed by SSgt Creston Patrick Bailey
 In the age of post Cold War hoopla, the call to down size not only the military, but our nations Intelligence capabilities, occurs at our own risk.  While the Soviet Union is no longer a "Super Power", there are still enemies that would seek to destroy the United States of America.  It is in time such at this that David Marconi sets his film Enemy of the State.  In this fictional work, Marconi portrays the constant battle between the needs of national security and the civil liberties of United States citizens.  This battle is depicted by the need for the National Security Agency's need to collect Signals and Communications Intelligence (Sigint and Comint) at the expense of privacy of United States personnel.  The plot of the film is an attempt by power hungry individuals in the government to pass a bill that would allow for monitoring of telecommunications traffic of United States citizens.  A politician, who is killed by those who support it, opposes the bill.  The course of the film brings in an unsuspecting citizen who unknowingly acquires evidence of the murder.  Robert Dean, portrayed by Will Smith, has his life turned upside down by the National Security Agency in an attempt to retrieve the evidence he unwittingly possess.  Ultimately Dean is able to outwit the National Security Agency and escape their massive technological means and foil their plans to subvert the privacy of United States Citizens.  While the plot makes for a mediocre film, at best, it is the authors, and producer's ability to pray on the viewer's fear of `big brother' that keeps the movie interesting.  According to director Tony Scott the United States Intelligence Community possesses technology that can reach in and dominate the lives of the American public.  Images of real-time sub-one meter resolution streaming imagery from orbiting satellites, and computer nerds tasking satellites on a moments notice are served up to scare an unwitting audience.  The use of formerly secret code words offers credibility to the film in the eyes of an uneducated public.  While all of these images and ideas may sell a movie, and make it appear that the United States Intelligence Community is somehow omniscient, it is pure fantasy.  Not only does the author portray the abilities of the United States Intelligence Community falsely, he also fails to mention the illegality of the actions used by the National Security Agency in the film.  The most obvious of these oversights is United States Signals Intelligence Directive 18, that makes virtually every action in the film illegal.  However, if the goal of the writer is to scare public, he succeeds.  While the film does succeed in entertaining the public with high tech gadgets and suspenseful moments, it does so at the expense of the United States Intelligence Community.  The films primary motive appears not to entertain, but to propose an agenda.  That agenda seems not to be educating the public on what the United States Intelligence Community does to protect the nation, but that `Big brother' is watching, and that the United States Intelligence Community is here to destroy your freedoms, not to ensure them.