My wife and I have a long and strong interest in birds, with two pet sparrows, other close bird associations, and hundreds of hours soaring with raptors, ravens, swifts, gulls, and pelicans, on our hang gliders and paragliders. Birds have been the main focus of Naomi's artwork. So we expected to enjoy the series but maybe not find a lot of new or surprising information. Wrong! Most of the content so far has been new to us, either species we had never heard of or at least a different angle on the ones we did know something about. After renting and watching half of the first DVD, we ordered the whole set. This will be one of the few that we will watch, and show to friends, over and over.

I can't speak directly for people who think they have no interest in birds, but that should be no deterrent. If you have any interest in the world around you, watch this video.

  The videography is breathtaking; narration is great; pacing, story interest, and organization are nearly flawless. Factual, technical, or editing errors are few and trivial. As someone with a long interest and a lot of knowledge in aviation and aerodynamics, I can say that this program gets it right and gets it across in ways that intelligent lay people will grasp in ways that will give them a whole new way of seeing the world around them. I can only assume that the same level of care has been given to less familiar sub-topics. Getting specialized knowledge across to lay audiences without dumbing it down or losing accuracy is a rare and precious art: The Life of Birds is a masterpiece. Attenborough is a charming guide, fun to watch and hear, and not too intrusive. Occasional computer graphics and animations serve a good purpose and are not overdone. There's little or no annoying overdramatization - who needs that when the material is so engrossing and compelling on its own?

  If video transfer quality on earlier DVDs or tapes was poor, that problem seems to have been solved. What we've seen is some of the most sparklingly clear video I can think of anywhere. About the only small gripe I have is that the menu navigation and links from one chapter to another are awkward and confusing. But that amounts to a minute or two of annoyance out of hours of pleasure.

  One reviewer mentioned missing topics such as bird respiration. Well, it would be nice to cover everything known about birds, but even in 10 hours of video it simply can't be done. And some topics are probably a better fit for books, such as The Sibley Guide to Bird Life & Behavior.

  We rented The Life of Birds with high expectations, and the program exceeded them in every imaginable way.