This reminded me very much of House of Flying Daggers, although I enjoyed this a bit more.  Both movies have beautiful cinematography and great actions scenes.  This movie had a little better acting and thus the extra star.

Honestly, I don't understand why these Japanese film makers cannot produce a decent plot.  For so many reviewers to give these movies 5 stars and say the visuals are so awesome that a plot is not needed is ridiculous.  I do not consider myself that particular in this area but seriously, this plot has monumental errors.  Let me give just a few examples...

***Warning: Spoilers Ahead***

1) We are made to believe that the two protagonists are deeply in love with each other.  Both are summoned to fight in front of the emperor with their respective teams.  Yet the female attacks the male on the journey and he allows her to kill him.  Prior to this, the male character learns that a member of the female team named Tenzen has betrayed them and both of their villages are under attack while they are away.  Wouldn't our male protagonist say to his love, "Dear, we should go and defend our villages instead of me allowing you to kill me"?

2) As mentioned above, Tenzen betrays both villages by revealing their locations to the emperor.  Yet there is no scene regarding this activity or any motivation by Tenzen for his betrayal.  In addition, wouldn't the emperor already know of the location of the villages since at the beginning of the movie, he summons the elders of each village to demonstrate their skills?

3) So now we have the villages under attack.  These villages are supposed to be populated with amazing Shinobi warriors and yet when they are attacked by the emperor's forces, they run around like idiots with no fighting abilities whatsoever.  In addition, the emperor manages to sneak up on the village with cannons and  heavy infantry without being seen or heard, even though the village is in the cliff above them and could easily spot them a mile away.  Remember, these villages are at war.  You would think that there would be at least one sentry posted.

4) Finally the female begs the emperor to spare the villages and somehow the emperor manages to send this message to the attacking forces before they destroy the small village, something which appears like it would take about an hour to achieve.  How does the message get all the way from the emperor located in the capital city to the hidden village in such a short time before the village is destroyed?  If the village and the city are such a short distance apart, then how could they have been hidden in the first place?

And folks, this is just the tip of the iceberg.  Again, it is like the producer said, "We have all of these cool computer effects so let us write a story to demonstrate our amazing capabilities".  Sorry but that is no way to make a movie and it really is too bad because this could have been a great film.

By the way, the only thing that this story has in common with Romeo and Juliet is the two protagonists from families that hate each other.  The story and the ending are completely different.