If you happen to be a die-hard Jane Austin fan, please read as many reviews of this movie as you can before you watch it, but definitely watch it!  This movie shows just enough resemblance to the book to be able to  recognize Jane Austin as it's mother, but that's as far as it goes.  You  will not recognize Fanny Price.  They call her Fanny Price in the movie,  but her self-assured mannerisms and self-confidence bear no resemblance to  the book.  Fanny's older brother has been completely written out of the  movie.  And I can't quite put my finger on it, but there seems to be an  overall attempt to make all the characters seem black and white, good or  bad, which I found frustrating and annoying.  This black/white thing is  particularly annoying since Jane Austin had very few completely bad people  in her novels.  We, of course, interpret their actions as bad, but she  always suggested that there was something redeeming in everyone whether  they chose that path or not. I have a number of issues with this  interpretation, but if you approach it as just another period movie, it can  be quite enjoyable.  Nice cinematography, nice locations, the pacing is  good, and there are a handful of amusing conventions within it.  I usually  don't care for a movie whose characters talk directly to the viewers  (except, of course, for Woody Allen movies) because it tends to distroy the  viewers' suspension of disbelief, and that isn't a good way of presenting a  dramatic story line.  So, in summation, I was disappointed with this  adaptation.  I am one of those people who wish film makers could interpret  a book faithfully to the author's intent, instead of putting their own  interpretive mark on the project.  But, as long as you understand that this  movie will not actually be the Mansfield Park with which you are familiar,  it is an enjoyable experience.  As for the lesbian thing, I interpreted  that as another in the many little details that the director used to  attempt to make certain characters appear good, and others appear bad.  It's disappointing that this film maker chose to make a character look bad  by suggesting she might have lesbian tendancies (that sort of comment  doesn't help our society get beyond stereotypes).  She should have saved  her social commentary for her own material, instead of tacking it onto a  Jane Austin story!  For those of you who have not read any of Jane Austin's  writing, there are few references to sex, and none to lesbian  relationships.  Definitely rent it before you buy it!