The reason for my 1 star review is based on the price and bang for the buck.

To me this is priced way too high for a 40 minute show. Maybe at $10 to $15 this would have gotten 3 stars. I don't think it would deserve 4 or 5 stars no matter what.

Also, the 3D was good, but not as good as others made out. I've heard so much about the shark scene, that when it finally got to it I was disappointed. A shark never seemed to come out of the screen and the shark scene was so short if you went to get a refill on your drink you would have missed it.

There was only one scene where I thought the 3D did a decent job of coming out of the screen. Other than that, I felt that the 3D had good depth, but that was it. I like to have more jump out at you 3D than what was provided on this movie.

Sorry to say that if I could sell it and lose about $5 - $10 on the deal, I would do it.

I chose this movie over Step up 3D which I also heard had great 3D. Now I'm wondering if Step up 3D is better or if people are just so wrong about both???

For someone out there wanting good 3D, here's what I can say based on what I've seen.

Despicible Me - Best 3D I've seen yet in a blu ray movie. A couple of good pop out of the screen scenes and even the title menu has some good 3D effect. Would highly recommend this title.

Tron - A lot of 3D depth, but really not any pop out of the screen 3D. Would skip this title.

Shrek 1-4 - First 3 were redone in 3d. No real pop out at you 3D, but were still enjoyable. The 4th was created in 3D and while better than the first 3, still didn't have any pop out at you 3D. The broomstick ride was really enjoyable though. On the fence about this one, but would say if you enjoy the movies, get it.

Alice in Wonderland - really just 3D depth. No real pop out at you 3D. Would not recommend unless you like the movie. (it's always better in 3D than 2D)

A Christmas Carol - Good Depth, but really not a lot of pop out at you 3D. It's nice to have a Christmas movie to watch in 3D, but I would not recommend unless you like the movie.

Coraline 3D - Good 3D and good Depth. This movie was really enjoyable for the 3D. Not a lot of jump out at you 3D, but would still recommend this movie for its 3D content.

Under the Sea - See review above. Would not recommend unless you're just crazy about ocean life. Picture quality was good and good 3D depth, but way too short for the money.