Two sisters that do everything togather suddenly find something wedging itself between them in the form of - lycanthropy. They ar eout one night, something happens that is hard to see, and the next thing you know there is a bad thing happening in te happy little sandbox these two suburbanite kids had managed to build for themselves. This leads to dark and dark moments, things happening that you don't expect, a run for a curative, and an ending you will like if you like your horror crual and your answers unanswered.

Ginger snaps is one of those movies that didn't have great ratings at first because it was different. It broke many of the "werewolf rules" when it came out and played, making some of the purist watchers a little angry. It also had something of a teen vibe, only the teen vibe involved teens getting picked off and a wolf runing on two legs and not being nice about what it liked to do. That was one of the things I liked about it and one of the things thta proved a nice point - if in doubt, turn to another country for your horror fix.

One of the things that helped this movie was the acting. The bond between the sisters was a buyable thing and, in pplot turns, it could have all kind of unhappy camper moments. It also allows for an ending you can't predict because you can't say if one sister can pull the trigger, if one can maw the other, or what exactly can happen.

Another thing that worked for the movie was the use of a good looking wolf that was kept out of the spotlight enough to keep you on your toes when it emerges. That doesn't mean there are not a lot of bad things here, either, or that there aren't an armada of memorable lines. The gore, the give; it is nice enough to cover up any flaws.

Basically, you have a movie that has gotten the love it should have gotten from fans that know horror, pushing the critic voice to the back of the line. That is what should happen, too, because people with an outlook are not always there to throw stones. And I don't profess to be some guru that can lead you to the West - I only give opinions and think you should research and see if you agree with the people that like the drippy, bloody, mean way that movies like this fall.

As for me, I have this and i like wathcing it when th emood strikes.