I was a little afraid that this movie was going to be a hokey version of the original. This wasn't the case. The producers, directors, and stylists who worked on the show all helped make this movie - and it showed. There's a lot of reviews talking about all the great stuff, so I'll talk about some negatives:

I'm going to talk about some major plot points and THERE ARE SPOILERS BELOW, SO IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW, DON'T KEEP READING!

1) I loved that Carrie and Big finally got married. I love that he proposed with a a Manolo Blahnik istead of a diamond. I love that Big helps Charlotte with her baby. Here's what I don't love: Big gets all worked up that Carrie plans this big wedding and he can't do it. He doesn't want to be embarassed as he's gotten married twice already. This got me a little steamed. I understand his point and I do think Carrie was going overboard. But, Carrie's never been married and she has the right to have a beautiful wedding and not a quickie at City Hall. There is a compromise between City Hall and the New York City Public Library. A bride should have the wedding of her dreams and Big should have "manned" up. So, he ended up getting what he wanted anyway. And speaking of the library, it was one of the things I think that the movie deviated from the show. In the movie, Carrie is apparently obsessed with library books, which leads to the wedding the Library. When, in 6 seasons of the show, did we ever get the idea that Carrie was obsessed with library books? We've only seen her read fashion magazines!

3) I love that, at the end of the movie, we truly realize how perfect Steve and Miranda are for each other. And I understand that they needed a story line for these two, but I just didn't see Steve as the cheating type. I still don't see it. Merely a plot device and not true to character. And Miranda seems even more like a *&^%^B in the movie than she did in the show. She's always been my least favorite character: she's awkward and clueless and you'd think after so many years, she'd grow a soul.

4) Big and Carrie's house on 5th Avenue is stunning and it makes every girl dream that, one day, they could have it, too. The downside to this fantasy? Not even Mr. Big Bucks could afford this place. No way, no how.

5) I really liked the idea of Carrie's assistant. I think it was an inspired idea and a perfect way to help Carrie find her way back. But, I don't know what everyone's big whoo-ha-ha is for Jennifer Hudson. Not impressed with her at all, and especially not in this movie. I'm not sure who I would have picked, but she wouldn't have even made my top 50.

6) I left the movie feeling confused about Samantha. Over the course of 10 years, she hasn't really grown any. Sure, she dates Smith for a couple of years, but that doesn't stop her from lusting after Dante the hot neighbor boy or dumping Smith cause she's not getting enough ya-yas. I understand leaving LA because she needs her friends and she loves NYC, but left because she wanted hot sex with random guys. She's 50. Grow up!

Anyway, if you're a SATC fan, this movie is a must-see. If you haven't seen SATC, watch the show first. It'll be worth it, I promise.