Except for cinematography by Vittorio Storaro, this film is way over rated. It is totally homophobic. The entire premise of the reason the protagonist was a Fascist murderer is because he thought he accidentally shot and killed a man who molested, or at least tried to molest him once when he was 13. The man was 6-10 years older. So he became a murderer for Mussolini. WTF? What about all those dozen adult men and women who are shown standing two feet away while a dozen kids his age have his pants pulled down and are molesting him en masse, for who knows how many times. No, that would not make him a murderer. The guy who molested him was not a homosexual. He was a child molester, because the boy was prepubescent, presumably. Later in the film, we see the "homosexual" trying to pick up a much older male prostitute. I don't think child molesters evolve to like older people as sexual partners, so this is not true to life. He is also shown to be a total wimp, a stereotype. The protagonist's new wife confesses to having been raped for 6 years by a man 50 years older and says she enjoyed it. She seems as normal as anybody in the film. Talk about a double standard! The director should have followed the golden rule of filmmaking: Make films about things you know about. The dialogue, dubbed or not is ridiculous. It's so baldly dubbed, they could have said intelligent things that people might actually say. added bonus, gratuitous exploitation of the star actresses tits. You can see the blue gel wrapping the dance room moving in the wind. The only person not dancing was the Fascist murderer and his assistant. How inconspicuous. Brutally grotesque murder scene tops it off. Francis Ford Coppola, Sidney Lumet, and other filmmaker wrote a letter to talk an American distributor into distributing the film. Perhaps they first should have consulted with their gay friends to see how they felt about being stereotyped in film or on TV as child molesters, too typical of the time the film was made, 1970.