I'm utterly baffled by the glowing reviews of this film, from seemingly intelligent people.  Can we have been watching the same film?  The film I saw was the cinematic equivalent of a root canal.  15 minutes in I was feeling unengaged, after half an hour I was wondering in frustration: "where is this GOING?", and after 45 minutes (feeling rather cheated by all the positive reviews) I decided I'd rather write a review of it than finish watching it.  I see from the many other extremely negative reviews that my opinion wouldn't have changed.

Allow me to summarize the plot:  after a ten minute episode about a dybbuk set in a Jewish village in Poland (which was rather creepy and interesting but had NOTHING to do with the rest of the film), the remaining 90 minutes of the film are taken up with Larry, who lives in a banal Jewish suburb in Minneapolis (?) in the 60s, and  is beset by troubles from the people around him.  In response, Larry does..... nothing, and learns nothing.  There's a Sopranos-style ending, and that's it.

Upon further reflection, I've decided that you'd need to be Jewish (or at least, of a religious/mystical mindset), in order to have the deep thoughts that people are apparently having about symbolism, the meaning of life, Judaism, God, etc when they watch this film.  If that's the sort of thing that turns your crank then apparently you'll like this.

For me this was the wrong movie. As an atheist, these themes are completely uninteresting to me, and there's not much else going on here.  The movie is not 1/100th as funny as Lebowski, it's painfully, PAINfully slow, full of very ugly (in all senses of the word) and uninteresting people.  This film is reminiscent of Days of Darkness by Denys Arcand (shlumpy everyman is beset by troubles, not much happens), but in that film, the everyman at least displays human reactions, fights back, learns something about himself, and finds a bit of peace.  In short, it has a "story", and thus it's a far, far, FAR more watchable film than this mess.

Acting, sets, cinematography are all very good (the actors all convincingly portray repellent and unwatchable people).  With all this talent, it's too bad they didn't make a movie.  I read the New Yorker review of this film which I thought was very good: "As a piece of moviemaking craft, A Serious Man is fascinating; in every other way, it's intolerable."