While the cast is impressive, this re-make of this classic fairy tale is - well - offensively lame to the extreme. I was truly happiest in the noted characters (more about that later) with Julia Robert's part in the telling of the Evil Queen - but that was about it. Nathan Lane? You must have been paid well. Prince Charming - Arnie Hammmer's best scene was when under a spell from said evil queen, behaving as a dog...a puppy, to be exact. Let's face it, it isn't as though he needs the money, is it? Lily whoever the heck she is as Snow White really needed her eyebrows plucked - I mean REALLY - and even hairier, her character took nearly identical ideas and scenes from Once Upon a Time on ABC. The Seven Dwarfs were by far the best actors and entertainers of all however, keeping closest to the original tale characters, and kept me watching the darn movie...yet these incredible actors received so very little accolades it was sad and downright wrong. Grimm's Fairy Tales are all melded with horror, intended to be so, and this? Well, I'm sorry I bought it. Actually bought this nonsense, yes, I admit it. According to Bollywood-style, there was, of course, a dancing/singing piece at the end after Snow White did NOT eat the poison apple! Who thought of THAT anyway? I literally forced my endurance of a piece of the ending which was, of course, the singing dancing happy happy joy joy Bollywood junk. Arnie? You have two or three left feet, but you're nice to look at in the scenes that took advantage of your chest hair. The storyline is not at all like the original, though it could have been enjoyable, had it had any merit of course - which it doesn't. Sadly looking at my wallet having been plucked by this awful film, I look forward to Snow White and the Huntsman to purchase - hmmm, perhaps rent, as well as continuing to watch Once Upon a Time and Grimm - both (almost) free on HULU. My opinion? Don't waste your money, and if you like Bollywood films well...to each his/her own. Be well, all.