I was hooked on Deadwood from the start and in particular absolutely mesmerised by Ian McShane's performance - acting at its absolute finest, perfect timing and pacing of his lines and expressions. Comedy, violence, anger and angst, all delivered in impeccable and perfect pitch - a complete masterclass in the art. And this from the same man who played Lovejoy!

The sets were superb, the supporting ensemble pretty good... but unfortunately, by Season 3, it seemed like things were starting to unravel, probably when the director/producers realised the viewing figures were waning, HBO had lost interest and that the end was nigh.

Which probably explains why the massive build-up to a climactic showdown never happened - they ran out of budget. Committed to a set number of shows for the rest of the season, they just stretched it out to fill. A massive anti-climax and disappointment, and an affront to the show's loyal fans.

Hearst arrived and everything was building up to some sort of epic confrontation. Hired guns arriving in town, Mr Wu fetching his army of Chinese from San Francisco... I thought we were going to go out in an epic blaze of glory.

Instead, we had characters standing around agonising on what to do next, marching around from one building to another, doing the odd Shakespearean-style soliloquoy, indulging in embarrassing lesbian scenes (Calamity Jane must rank as the most irritating and unwatchable character in any TV series) and all manner of other pointless and dull interludes.

Meanwhile key characters from Seasons 1 and 2, like Sy Tolliver, became sidelined in Series 3, characters going nowhere and with no real motives or objectives in life.

Tolliver spends most of Series 3 standing around ranting and raving, but for reasons which totally escape me. What his purpose was, and what his relationship with Hearst was, all seemed to melt into nothing, so he was reduced to standing on his balcony looking angry and gritting his teeth.

All this wouldn't have been so bad, but as the guns massed, the taunts grew, the violence simmered and boiled, the random acts of brutality caused ever more teeth-clenching... what happened? Nothing! Nothing at all! Hearst rode out of town after Bulloch clenched his teeth at him one last time, and that was it! How feeble was that?

The whole series just fizzled out, with the election supposed to be some sort of climactic finale. But the significance of the election, or who was standing for what, and why, completely escaped me. It just seemed an irritating, confusing and weakly-scripted diversion in the background, not the major plotline.

When the election finally took place, the results were confusingly blurted out in Al's pub by a minor character, nobody seemed bothered by them (including the viewers), or even heard them properly, and the meaning and impact of it had become totally lost, to the point where it hardly seemed to matter.

This review gets three stars for Ian McShane's brilliant character acting, for the sets, and for HBO's bravura in putting this ambitious series on in the first place.

But it desperately needs some sort of finale, a tying up of loose ends, as some sort of payback for the long hours the loyal fans have put in following it all.

Oh, it also gets bonus points for the magnificent horse in the credits (called Bobby, I believe), and for Ellwood's wonderful dog (can anybody supply any more information on him?)