I'm glad I only rented this DVD. I knew nothing about the film, other than it is the hot new Korean gangster/revenge flick. To qualify my tastes, I like gangster films, and I love the new wave of genre-busting Korean films.

"Bittersweet Life" is the story of Sun-Woo, a workaholic enforcer who operates out of a hotel. Sun-Woo is put in the untenable situation of monitoring his boss' mistress while the boss is out of town. Through his surveillance, Sun-Woo discovers that the mistress has a younger lover. Instead of killing them both as per the boss' orders, Sun-Woo gives the two a chance to live on the condition that they never see each other again. The boss returns, finds his mistress cold, and surmises the situation. He takes his anger out on Sun-Woo for his perceived disloyalty. Their fight escalates until the two men are using all their resources to destroy one another, last man standing, one-against-everyone revenge style.

While the leading man, the hotel set, and the orchestral theme are pretty, they are not remarkable, and these factors were the only positive things that I can say about the movie. I wasn't expecting this film to compare with the recent work of Chan Wook Park; "Lady Vengeance" and "OldBoy" are high standards to reach in Korean revenge drama. I was expecting something of standard quality like "Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance." Alas, "Bittersweet Life" seems like a tired American action product. It resembles a non-renown Stallone-style mess (think "Cobra"; not "Rocky") that contains a monosyllabic hero, who lacks all personality, except for his violent nature, which bubbles up from his otherwise placid surface; who is fighting against everyone according to his own moral code. His moral code isn't offended by giving and receiving strenuous torture or being buried alive; it is only offended when pretty girls cry.

Also, while a inconclusive ending ending may work for a horror movie (Ichi the Killer, A Tale of Two Sisters), it does not work for all films. This kind of finish on "Bittersweet Life" seems studied instead of enigmatic. The audience is left with a shadow-boxing ghost, the idea that the fight, the revenge, the betrayal, and perhaps even the entire movie didn't happen? Or did it? Or did it, but not in the way we saw it? Or the flashback corrected the entire story, or reinforced what we thought we saw? Wow, I mean, wow. This studied mystery-making isn't about being so meaningful, that the film transcends interpretations. The pseudo-cryptic ending is about a director not making artistic choices, and then throwing everything at the finale in order to distract the audience from realizing that the film is an unpleasant mess. Maybe he also hoped to kill the lumbering film that really had no place to go and nothing to offer.

"Bittersweet Life" is neither bitter nor sweet; it is tedious. Ignore the hype, the Tarantino posturing, and watch something else, unless of course, you are a die-hard fan of Stallone's lesser works, then rent this movie. If you are looking for revenge films, seek out the work of Chan Wook-Park, or Ji-Woon Kim's other film "A Tale of Two Sisters." If you are looking for other Korean films of any genre, check out "Memories of Murder," "TaeGukGi," and "Attack the Gas Station!"