Pros:  Every decent Prince song gets screentime.

Cons:  On the Wikipedia article for Purple Rain, it says that "the script was to be darker and more coherent."  I can only conclude that Prince decided it would be better to punish viewers with an hour and forty-one minutes of self-indulgent drivel.

This movie started off well with one of the catchier Prince songs and only went downhill from there.  You know how some actors try- and usually fail- to launch a musical career?  This pompous, hairy midget got it backwards and thought that he could fool people into thinking he was acting; instead all we got were fake tears, a nonsensical romance subplot, and lots of pelvic thrusting guitars.

For those who do not know, Purple Rain is a sort of biography of Prince- if Prince was master of time and space.  He's supposed to be playing his teenage self, so we're all treated to what would happen if Prince was a loser in his late twenties hanging out with underage kids and living with his parents.  Admittedly, he's probably one MC Hammeresque fiscal disaster away from that, anyway.  He's dirt poor (he gets his famous white guitar from a pawn shop) but can afford his custom purple motorcycle.  This movie is so biographical that it receives the usual "The events and characters in this motion picture are fictional. Any similarity to actual events or characters is unintentional and purely coincidental" in the credits.

I'm starting to wonder if maybe I didn't enjoy this movie because I'm not part of the target demographic.  It caters almost directly to the fanbase, middle-aged women, with gratuitous shirtless scenes and lots of live renditions to cover Prince's embarrassingly bad acting skills, and unsurprisingly grossed an $80 million in box offices.  That's because Purple Rain was the original Twilight, the 1990 movie that awkward teenage girls and middle-aged women could pound their chubby snatches to.

If you're looking for a musically-driven fictional movie about a real band, you can't beat <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000Y5JFN4">This Is Spinal Tap [Blu-ray</a>].  But please, please stay away from Purple Rain.