First, the good news, Jodie's Foster's acting is top-notch in this movie about a mid-air abduction of her child which no-one else has seen.

The bad news is that that is one of the only high points of this movie that leaves too questions and plot holes to be answered and filled in.

Warning: Spoilers Follow.

Jodie's Foster portrays a distraught mother who has lost his husband in an accident and on the flight to New York from Berlin with her husbands body in the cargo hold, her child is kidnapped.

Noone else on the plane has seen her daughter, and the first part of the movie tries to tempt us into believing that she may really be the one who is crazy.

However, this is where we have to start suspending our disbelief. On one hand she is distraught but on the other hand, she is quick thinking enough after a while to realize that there are conspirators onboard, and at one point in the movie to realize who the real hijacker was and quickly think of a way of foiling him.

Jodie Foster's acting is one of a thespian par excellence, the emotion of losing her daughter strikes us as well as her desperation. As an actor I believed that her tears in a scene were real and inspired me to be able to act at her level.

The end of the movie reveals that her husband's death was part of an elaborate plot to smuggle explosives in his sealed coffin onboard and a chance to ransom the airline for $15 million dollars deposited into a Swiss bank account.

But that leaves us with too many, "But.." questions.

Why was her husband was killed just so to get a coffin onboard? The funeral director could have just waited for when a coffin will be flown on a plane and used that as an opportunity.

I mean how sure was there going to be a coffin? What if she cremated her husband instead?

How could the hijackers know that she will be on the same flight as the coffin?

How could the hijackers be sure that no-one will ever see her daughter?

If she was the first one to board the plane, why wasn't she sitting in first class rather than economy?

How could the hijackers be sure that they will be able to kidnap the daughter quietly,with no-one watching?

How could the circumstances be so right that she will be sleeping in the back with noone else around?

To sabotage the flight manifest would need more than just a funeral director, an air-marshall and a flight attendant.

There was also the issue of someone needing to send a false death testimony of her daughter to the plane.

How could the air-marshall and stewardess be sure of being assigned to the same flight as the one as Jodie Foster's?

With so many points of failure for this hijack/kidnap story, you'll just have to suspend your disbelief for the 2/3 of the movie just to enjoy it.