Did you ever watch a movie and really, and I mean really, want to like it? "The International" is just such a film. I am a big Clive Owen fan, I like action and mystery, I do not like movies that are confused at their genre and full of sloppy writing however.

Things start off on an even enough keel. Clive Owen plays an Interpol Agent who watches one of his partners vomit and fall over dead after being poisoned directly following a meeting with members of the evil bank (The International Bank of Business and Credit). Owen rushes across the street to render aide to his fallen comrade and gets to the berm when he gets hit in the back of a head by the mirror of an oncoming van and gets knocked out cold on the side of the road, falling beside his partner. This is exactly how useful his character is for the rest of the film. Not at all.

Once Owen's partner is killed we're barely introduced to Noami Watts who is the New York City  Assistant District Attorney. There's not really a lot of plot surrounding her or why she's involved with the case. It's more just kind of *poof*, there she is... and then she disappears for large chunks of the movie. She is supposed to be Owen's partner in the investigation but she is around for so little of it that it doesn't really feel like she belongs. The only thing she manages to do is talk on the phone a lot and get run over by a car. Movie would have flowed just fine with out her.

So let's get down to the plot, the mostly boring, outlandish, and very hard to follow plot. I don't like admitting when I can't follow a plot, I'll be honest. I feel like it's failure on my part. Maybe I wasn't watching the movie close enough or maybe I am just too stupid to get it. I don't really feel bad about missing large chunks of "The International"s plot because I blame the poor writing. But in any case Owen and Watts start to investigate the background of the evil bank. They find that people who are in charge routinely disappear and eventually that the bank is dealing in weapons and war or anything else that can make them a buck or help them manipulate the market. With that secret out in the open they decide they have to put a stop to it and the international jet setting hi jinks ensues. There's a lot of changes in local, a politician is assassinated,  and we watch Clive Owen get angrier and angrier at the evil bank but in the end nothing really happens.

I think that's probably why "The International" failed. It wasn't sure if it was a mystery, a political message, or a James Bond movie. Of these three it accomplished zero. The mystery wasn't really that sound or very interesting (here's a secret, it's the evil bank!). The political message that money is evil and so are banks is kind of stupid and poorly played out. Perhaps where it failed most was it's attempt at action. Clive Owen is Mr. Action, just look at him in the "Bourne Identity" or as `The Driver' in the BMW shorts and he was a candidate to be the next James Bond! So what went wrong? Well first of all I don't know anything about Interpol, but for being like an FBI agent Owen doesn't have his own weapon, gets into several gun fights, and always has to barrow someone else's gun. It would be different if he was able to handle himself like `The Driver' and didn't need a weapon to get himself out of a jam, but he really really needs the gun. Secondly there is almost no action in the movie, someone gets capped here or there but its usually anti climactic.

This can NOT be said for the amazing Guggenheim shoot out scene however. It's action at a mile a minute! It is literally the only reason to pop this movie in your dvd player but with all the other boring-ness going on it feels terribly out of place. The only way I can think to put it in context would be to imagine hopping on the ride Pirates of the Caribbean, you're sailing along for a few moments enjoying the saucy pirates when from out of nowhere the twelve foot tall abominable snow man from Expedition Everest attacks you and before you realize what's just happened you're sailing through pirate world again. That said I can't give "The International" a very high score. I really wanted to like it, I tried really hard, but its convoluted plot, identity crises, and inconsequential characters make it just barely watchable. It gets a four from me. One point for Clive Owen (it's not really his fault the character was horrible) and three points for the spectacular Guggenheim scene, even if it was out of place.