Those of us who have loved this film for many, many years (through theatrical re-release, VHS tape, laserdisc and the first DVD) will most likely wonder why the much-awaited 171 roadshow version (not seen in decades) was not completely restored visually.  Fotokem Lab in Hollywood restored the 151 minute "general release" version (it's in quotes because general release versions of roadshow films usually don't carry overture, intermission, entr'acte, exit music tracks like "South Pacific" has done since laserdisc days)and their web site makes mention of the recently discovered 171 full version, leading us to assume that they were restoring the whole film.  That's not the case here, and it's very jarring to see faded splices of cut material re-inserted into the sparkling, restored shorter print.  Why not restore those 14 minutes to complete glory?  Yes, the frame on the new DVD introducing the roadshow print states "14 minutes" not 20 minutes, and also says that roadshows had an intermission.  Huh?  On this new disc, the shorter general release version has an intermission, so what were they trying to tell us?  Even worse, the sound synch is off for most of the restored elements, even carrying over into the restored transitions.  Highly annoying.  Many of us have waited a long time to see the full-length version, which, by the way, played for many, many months in its initial engagements.  It's not a case of a long flop being cut right away (think of "Star!").  I'm really disappointed with Fox Video for handling a long-awaited release with such lack of integrity.  The full-length print (if it is indeed the 171 minute version) is now available mainly for historical purposes, since it has been given the second-disc placement in this set and isn't the pristine print the film (and its millions of fans) deserves.  One final complaint -has "Gonna Wash That Man Right Outta My Hair" ever been seen in a full-length version of the song? It's complete on the soundtrack album but is very choppy in the film, no matter which version you're viewing.