Tears pages from a ton of different movies successes, but it is still pretty funny.
The movie's concept is a definite rip - a movie I just saw about a week ago documents the same thing - a guy sends his college girlfriend the infamous 'sex tape' and then tries to get to her to get the tape back. The movie starred Paul Rudd and Reese Witherspoon and was called "Overnight Delivery."
This movie's unique quality would be the diversity of its actors - it seems to be a much more diverse casting than the 'teen dream' castings of American Pie (which featured some of the most attractive teens in America 'stuck' as virgins) and She's All That (which pinned Rachael Leigh Cook as the 'ugly girl' - are you kidding????). This movie features an 'ugly guy' who - apologies to DJ Qualls - is actually not that attractive. The movie also seems to try and capitalize on Tom Green's popularity - it almost seems like they expanded his part, or even added his part, due to his growing popularity due to his hilarious MTV show. Breckin Meyer was great as Josh and Seann William Scott continues playing the jerk/jock role very well. Andy Dick is absolutely hilarious as well as very unrecognizable, hotel clerk.
The script isn't that creative, but it does have some highs, but with the highs come some lows. There were some parts that dragged - Green's character Barry telling the story - although essential to the story, seemed a bit more than necessary. The movie was quick - less than an hour and 20 minutes - but it worked in most parts, but the ending could have been expanded at the end. I don't want to spoil the ending, but if you watch the film, you'll notice that everything seems to change in the blink of an eye. 
There was great deal of nudity - which surprised me - and I've heard Amy Smart was not very well briefed for the extent of her nudity. But she said that later she understood and it worked with the role. 
Overall, it was definitely a better teen movie than the past few months have seen (Whatever It Takes) - but still didn't have that classic element that American Pie truly grasped.