The question to ask yourself is this: are these sets worth the money?

The answer really depends on what kind of fan you are.  These sets seem to be aimed at the fans of the James Bond series as a whole (not toward any specific actor or decade).  If you've never purchased a James Bond DVD before and are a fan of most of the films, this is an easy purchase.

If you already own some or all of the previous releases, does this release necessitate a purchase?  This depends on what you are looking for in a DVD release of this series.  If you are looking for more extras, you may want to think twice.  This new release contains most of the same extras as the original release.  The new extras are nice, but if the most informative stuff (commentaries and documentaries) are exactly the same as the previous release.

If you are looking for upgraded picture and sound quality, then buy these sets now.  The upgrades are extremely impressive, with each film looking like it was filmed yesterday.  The sound improvements aren't quite as impressive, but are still an upgrade to some of the mono tracks for the older films.

What about a HD version coming in the future?  Well that all depends on how what you think the fate of the HD format will be.  If you think it's going to stick around for a good long time, then skip this set and wait for an HD version.  If you think that HD will be the Laserdisc of it's time and will replaced all too quickly by direct downloads to your TV, than go ahead and indulge in this set now.

The packaging is also a plus for collectors.  The slimpack packaging takes up less room and the boxes are fairly attractive.  I'm not too crazy about the new cover art (I wish they had used the old poster art), but it's a minor thing.  The menus are interesting, but I think I enjoyed the old DVD menus more.

With that said, I purchased all four sets.  For the picture and sound upgrade and that fact that I can get all 20 films for a good price makes it an easy purchase.  Sure I have my favorite films of the bunch, but I enjoy the documentaries and commentaries on all the movies.  Besides what makes a "good" Bond film is really subjective.

That said... here are my opinions of the films included in Set 4.

Dr. No:

It's difficult to judge the first Bond movie without comparing it to the films that followed it.  The visuals are great, especially the sets by Ken Adam, and the location work in Jamaica.  Some of visual effects are less than spectacular, but they are good for the time.  The music is interesting in that the main James Bond theme is introduced, but overused.  The rest of the score is OK, but lacking the intensity that John Barry would add later.  The real story here is Sean Connery's debut as 007.  He's great in the part and plays it as a real man caught in a dangerous spot.  Ursula Andress makes a very sexy Honey Rider.  Joseph Wiseman makes an excellent villain.  He gives Dr. No a sense of style and cruelty that matches Bond's hero very well.  Director Terrance Young moves things at a slower pace, but keeps the film interesting.  When all is said and done this is a good action adventure film.  Compared to the other Bond films, it might be a little slow or simplistic, but on its own terms its a good evenings entertainment. 3 out of 5 stars.

You Only Live Twice:

The follow-up to "Thunderball" was bigger in every way.  Unfortunately, bigger isn't always better.  The sets (especially the volcano base) are awe inspiring.  The location shooting in Japan is exotic and intriguing.  John Barry turns in one of his best scores for the Bond series, mixing the Asian flavor with classic Bond style.  The main theme sung by Nancy Sinatra is one of the best of the 60's.  However things start going a little bad in the acting.  Sean Connery just isn't into the part by this point.  His confidence has shifted into boredom, and while it doesn't match his ultra-relaxed/bored performance in "Diamonds Are Forever" its pretty weak.  Luckily Donald Pleasance is suitably creepy as Bloefeld and you've got two sexy Japanese ladies to pick from (Mie Hama and Akiko Wakabayashi).  Also of note is Tetsuro Tamba as Tiger Tanaka, Bond's contact in Japan.  This was director Lewis Gilbert's first Bond film, and it isn't a bad outing.  The script (by Roald Dahl of all people) is weak and over the top.  Lewis makes the best of it, but like many bond films, the movie feels too long.  An entertaining film, but not one of the better ones. 3 out of 5 stars.

Moonraker:

Ah, Moonraker.  Often called the worst Bond film of all time.  Well, that title isn't earned.  Visually this is an excellent film.  More great sets by Ken Adam, and beautiful location shooting in Brazil, Italy and France.  The visual effects are also pretty good for the time.  The main theme is typical, but John Barry's score is very good.  Roger Moore does a solid job playing the role in the same vein as the previous film "The Spy Who Loved Me".  Lois Chiles is only OK as Holly Goodhead, she comes across a bit flat (but very attractive).  Villain duties are split between Richard Kael (still huge, but less threatening) and Michel Lonsdale as Hugo Drax (urbane and cruel in the Dr. No fashion).  It's the script and the direction that makes this film fall apart.  "Comedy" is increased to jokey puns and stupid sight gags.  Roger plays off most of them in his impeccable manner, but that doesn't keep the audience from groaning.  Director Lewis Gilbert gives the film little urgency, and Kael's character is only in the film for laughs instead of thrills.  In fact the movie is pretty thrill-less.  However it has enough good things going for it, to make it entertaining, but really a silly adventure, none the less.  3 out of 5 stars.

Octopussy:

After the wonderful "For Your Eyes Only" it was time to return to the old fashioned 007 adventure.  Only if old fashioned means lots of questionable "comedy" and a script that needed some more work.  Again, visuals are not a problem, with the film taking place in India and Germany, there's plenty of great location shooting and authentic sets by Peter Lamont.  The movie has some great stunt work as well.  Roger is back in a more comfortable mode as 007.  The hard edge of the previous movie is gone, replaced by an overly confident character.  Moore isn't quite as bored as Connery, but he's going through the motions.  The rest of the cast is OK.  Maud Adams is attractive and alluring as Octopussy, but when the characters calls for anything else she can't quite manage it.  Louis Jourdan is better as Kamal Khan; all smoothness and cruelty.  The rest of the cast ranges from adequate to over the top.  John Glen keeps the pace rolling, and does a great job with the action scenes.  The major failing is the script.  It feels thrown together, and only serves as padding around the action set pieces.  There is a focus on humor, but the jokes are stale, lame, or just plain stupid.  As a result the movie drags from action scene to action scene.  It's not the weakest effort with Roger Moore, but it struggles to keep my interest. 2 out of 5 stars.

Tomorrow Never Dies:

Pierce Brosnan's second outing promised to be a good one.  It had a great cast, and audiences were ready for more James Bond.  Things don't quite fall together.  Bond finds himself in Germany, Vietnam and the China sea.  Location shooting and work on sets blends perfectly.  The visual effects are great, and the stunt work is also good.  David Arnold gives us his first Bond score, and its very good (but relies on the Bond theme a little too heavily).  The theme by k.d. lang is wonderful, but is relegated to the end credits.  Sheryl Crow's theme is lacking something.  Brosnan is even better in this film, and plays the role with confidence.  Michelle Yeoh is also excellent, matching Bond with her skills and creating a believable partner.  Teri Hatcher isn't in the film much, but does a good job.  Jonathan Pryce goes over the top and makes his character humorous instead of threatening.  The script is weak.  Its not very polished and has the feel of action scenes in search of a plot.  Director Roger Spottiswoode makes most of the scenes in the first half work great, but once the action shifts to Asia, the movie derails.  The action scenes are huge and explosive, but seem to go on forever.  There is little threat, only loud explosions.  The result is a movie that starts out great, but fizzles by the end.  2 out of 5 stars.