In the film Dead End, the murky waters of Manhattan's East River served as an appropriate backdrop for the squalor that manifested itself within the conefines of tenament housing.  City streets that offered little hope for  the jobless, poor, and oppressed were truely "dead ends".  Written by Lillian Hellman and directed by William Wyler, Dead End exposed  the stark social and economic divisions between the affluent and the  underpriveledged.  Logistically, the film was easily adapted from Sidney  Kingsley's stage play, as most of the scenes are shot within the shadows of  Manhattan's East 53rd street highrises. Dead End is essentially about  people and their relationship with the neighborhood that spawned them.  Gangster Baby Face Martin ( Humphrey Bogart) returns to his old block  seeking glorified acceptance from his mother, only to be rudely rebuffed.  Plastic surgery may conceal Martin's outward identity, but his crimminal  persona is clearly defined through his street wise and violent attitude  towards survival. At first Martin basks in the limelight; preening with  sharp suit, hat, and polished shoes.  As if to make a social statement  exclaiming the virtues and rewards of crime, Martin becomes an icon for a  teenage street gang (The Dead End Kids).  When Martin is shocked by his  mother's repulsive behavior, he seeks out his old flame (Clair Trevor).  When she reveals that she is now a prostitute, Martin once again becomes  tormented  that his homecoming is a lonely one.  Sylvia Sydney plays Drina,  a young unemployed woman struggling to forge an identity of her own while  raising her teenage brother.  Drina can only dream about escaping the  confines of her depressing neighborhood, since her childhood beau ( Joel  McCrea) has been enticed by a society girl ( Wendy Barrie) who resides in  an exclusive penthouse overlooking the shoddy apartments that define Dead  End. Huntz Hall, Gabriel Dell, Leo Gorcey, and the rest of the Dead End  kids provide enough street talk to make an English teacher cringe with  embarrassment. Is there a way out of Dead End? Most street toughs assumed a  life of crime would free them from poverty.  Others set up businesses  relying on the patronage of tenanment residents to keep the bills paid.  Others relied on marriage in hopes of "marrying up".  Still  others sought education as a way out.  The year is 2000, and if you visit  the streets of Manhattan above 110th street not much has changed since  Wyler's 1937 film Dead End.