I have to register a dissenting opinion about this trivial  parody of horrific WWII experiences. When this movie was recently shown on TCM it was stated that Clint Eastwood was unhappy with the cuts made after shooting. I found myself wishing they had made more cuts or scrapped the movie entirely. Donald Sutherland's character, as a 60's type hippie complete with a 60's type (not WWII military) hairstyle who was seemingly sent back in time to command a renegade tank group, was particularly painful to endure. Other anachronisms could be cited but are less important than the generally juvenile script which one had to put up with. I know Hollywood has been successful in marketing war as a fun game for the good guys with the bad guys as stereotypical straight men but children should outgrow their action figure toys at some point in adulthood and begin to see the world in a slightly  more intelligent light than an impressionable juvenile. You could view the catastrophe of war as surreal or as a psychotic episode divorced from reality as in "Castle Keep" and some humor might work. This movie, I am sorry to say would inspire some to think that war is actually like a fun video game with tiger tanks being blasted in the ass with paint just for the hell of it before being finished  off for real.

I guess I also don't understand the Clint Eastwood mystique. His perpetual semi-catatonic expression I suppose is considered macho but to be fair I have never really watched one of his movies and perhaps there are better ones than this. I actually found Telly Savalas as the most believable character in the movie was he seemingly attempts to maintain some small degree of reality to this disjointed mess. Carroll O'Connor also manages to parody a stereotypical Army General without crossing the line into childish fantasy. The culmination of fantasy is when the three unarmed renegades casually confront a tiger tank and without being machined gunned to death, as would occur in real life, convince the German tank commander to join them in robbing the bank he is supposed to be guarding. Really believable right? I suppose if your taste in literature consists of action comic books, you might enjoy this creation. There is also the possibility one might become interested in if the renegades actually succeed in their bank robbing goal and you might follow that action. However, there is so much in this movie that masquerades as believable and is not, that the movie does not engage one who cannot accept contrived situations and shallow characters.