Watching the Keith Carradine/Powers Boothe vehicle" Southern Comfort" is a bit like eating a big bowl of vanilla ice cream-- yoiu pretty much know what you're in for, no real surprises, but it can still be enjoyable as hell if that's what you're in the mood for.

  The characters are all walking cliches-- the smart outsider, too intellectual for the ignorant rednecks he's stuck with (Boothe) the good ol' boy who's brighter than he lets on (Carradine), the hip black urbanite surrounded by crackers, the sidekick hispanic, the religious whacko, and the badass redneck who thinks the rules were made for other people. Oh, and let's not forget the halfwit ninety-day wonder of a CO, who everybody wants to see fragged, and finally, the obligatory inscrutable cajuns, at the same time both evil for attacking our boys in green, and sympathetic because "they are just defending their homeland/they got attacked first."

  To say that this is a thinly veiled, ham-handed commentary on the Vietnam war would be to give the director far too much credit for subtlety. While the action is steady, the character development is pretty nonexistant, and the audience finds itself repeatedly asking itself "why the hell did he do THAT???"

  Having said all that, the movie remains one of my favorite guilty pleasures. It is, to be sure, not a great film, but it remains a good movie. The action is relentless, the pacing good, and once you get past the cookie-cutter nature of the characters, the character interaction is entertaining. The most likeable figure in the movie is the one-armed cajun, who finally breaks into English, and tells Boothe to do what the audience has been shouting at the screen for three-quarters of the movie.

As much as for any other reason, the movie is well worth the ride for the slinky, swampwater soundtrack, provided very admirably by Ry Cooder (using, among other things, a seven foot long steel guitar.) It is another example of the inexplicable nature of Hollywood that this, of all cooder's soundtracks, has never been released as an album-- go figure!

  Like I said at the start-- It's like vanilla ice cream-- If you're looking for a new and unique experience, you probably want to skip this one. If, on the other hand, you seek something familiar, then this movie is definitely the equivalent of (Southern) comfort food.