This is hands down the absolute worst piece of crap movie I have ever seen...and believe me I have seen a lot of bad films in my time. There is about 3-5 minutes of this movie that are even worth watching and about 3 of those are a fully naked girl running around. (What can I say, that part was enjoyable to watch). If that's not your thing, well, I can't say there's much worth watching except a few super gory shots here and there. Of course, that does not excuse the audacity this film has to suck in new ways and inconceivable ways. Seriously though, there is absolutely nothing good I can say about this movie. The plot is god awful and makes NO sense whatsoever. The majority of the "talent" in the movie are clearly only to make young teenagers swoon by their good looks, the rest must have fallen on hard times and will do anything for a paycheck. I think the makers/distributors of this film assume the viewer is so stupid and shallow they will not even care if it follows any logic because hey, there's some hotties in it! (Shame on you, Lionsgate). Apparently that's what this genre is being reduced to though. Sad times. Please, save yourself some brain cells and avoid this stinker like the plague. I wish I had known before it was too late.

PS The 3-D sucks, the lines are off in every other shot and I finally just switched to regular ol' 2-D.
I Wish No Stars Was An Option... This is hands down the absolute worst piece of crap movie I have ever seen...and believe me I have seen a lot of bad films in my time. There is about 3-5 minutes of this movie that are even worth watching and about 3 of those are a fully naked girl running around. (What can I say, that part was enjoyable to watch). If that's not your thing, well, I can't say there's much worth watching except a few super gory shots here and there. Of course, that does not excuse the audacity this film has to suck in new ways and inconceivable ways. Seriously though, there is absolutely nothing good I can say about this movie. The plot is god awful and makes NO sense whatsoever. The majority of the "talent" in the movie are clearly only to make young teenagers swoon by their good looks, the rest must have fallen on hard times and will do anything for a paycheck. I think the makers/distributors of this film assume the viewer is so stupid and shallow they will not even care if it follows any logic because hey, there's some hotties in it! (Shame on you, Lionsgate). Apparently that's what this genre is being reduced to though. Sad times. Please, save yourself some brain cells and avoid this stinker like the plague. I wish I had known before it was too late.

PS The 3-D sucks, the lines are off in every other shot and I finally just switched to regular ol' 2-D.
clear rating