THE STORY: Kip Ranes has become what his brother Memphis (Cage) was: a car thief. As he messes up a boost he is caputerd by his employee Calitri. If he doesn't steal 50 cars in 72 hours for him, he has to die. So Kip has to get help from brother Memphis to do the impossible task that will save his life.
THE CAST: Academy Award Winners Nicolas, Cage, Robert DuVall and Angelina Jolie are joined by a supporting cast including Giovanni Ribisi, Timothy Olyphant, Will Patton and Delroy Lindo. These names make a lot of moviegoers happy.  But unfortunately they all waste their talent, trying to give dimension to their cardboard characters and almost all of them fail. Except for Delroy Lindo whose Detective Kasselbeck is the most likable characters off them all, even though he is pursuing our "hero" Nicolas Cage. Somehow I wanted him to get Memphis and that sure as hell wasn't the intention. But Cages character is so flat that he can wave his hands around all he wants, he is just not really likeable and the love to his brother is unconvincing and unemotional so I didn't really cared for those two. Angelina Jolie does what he needs to do: Trying to look sexy and tough with stupid hairdo. But she's only trying. 
THE SCRIPT: The script by Scott "Con Air" Rosenberg seems to me like it was written in a short time under a lot of pressure. I can't come up with another reason which justifies this script without insulting him. One of the major problems, and there are many of them, is that the "funny" lines are anything but funny and the way the black people are portrayed is really clich&eacute;d and annoying. Also the script does a big build up, so that you anticipate a great showdown but it never really comes...
DIRECTING: Dominic Sena does have an eye for beautiful lighting and that's about everything I think is worth mentioning here. The (few) action sequences are extremly bad edited and slow paced that you feel more like a spectator than a driver. The beautiful cars are shown too short and the transition between scenes often disrupts the rythm of the film and literally activates the breaks. Even the final car chase, which I was waiting for the whole boring 90 minutes is a major dissapointment because it lacks the most important thing: Speed... The climactic jump of Cages (CGI)Car is nothing more than laughable and unrealistic (which in this case, other than in a James Bond-type movie, hurts)
THE DVD: Sound and picture quality are top notch and the extra features rather interesting. It shows how many efforts were made, which made me feel sad because the end result could have been much more
ALL IN ALL: A slow moving, unfunny, unsuspensful film in my opinion where great actors have wasted their time and collected their money...