I was sorely disappointed with this, though not entirely surprised that it flopped, and would rank it one of the most ineffectual horror remakes of all the recent wave, and that's from someone who's always felt that the original left plenty of room for improvement at a later date. The visuals are there, and that's about it. There's one too many killers (and we see them way too early for a movie about "calls coming from inside the house!"), a bloated, ugly back story that wasn't really necessary (though it's good for a few uncomfortable giggles), and virtually NO tension. I found the girls--both as characters AND as characterizations--to be so absolutely interchangeable that I literally lost track of who was who, and worse, stopped caring about them very early on. Even the hairstyles didn't help me; how sad is that? I kept getting this vibe that the director (Glen Morgan) was TRYING not to utilize the cinematic "language" and touchstones that have come to define the slasher genre sparked in large part by the original BLACK CHRISTMAS, which begs the question: why bother? Interview bites in the supplementary material reveal that Morgan does indeed hate many of the tropes of the genre he's working in with this film and was often forced to use them, and he's clearly still sore from the sting left by the critical and commercial failure of his first film, WILLARD, to the point where even he figures his directing career might be over if BLACK CHRISTMAS doesn't make a lot of money. Big surprise that it didn't. Turning genre cliches on their ears (especially with a concept like this one), or avoiding them altogether, takes a much surer hand than Morgan's. His partner James Wong probably has that hand, but then again, there's that  DRAGON BALL thingy, so . . . One piece of humor I found amusing in this otherwise humorless film: when dorky Eve (the only girl that didn't blend with the others) gives one of the other girls a gift of a glass unicorn because "I know you're into the bible 'n stuff." Now THAT's a keeper. Just too bad it had to be used in such a crummy movie.