"The Sound of Music" is a delight from beginning to end, and the DVD adds exceptional features and content that really round out the filmgoing experience.
What review of this film would be complete without the requisite gushing praise for the opening sequence? It's justifiably famous, and gives an epic feel to a film that, at its heart, is a simple family story. 
Director Robert Wise lives up to his surname...he wisely takes a very effective minimalist approach with the story. Where a lesser director would have 'pumped up' the song sequences with flashier camera moves, Wise lets the songs speak for themselves and instead concentrates on getting the texture and feel of the scenes just right. "The Sound of Music" is simply but beautifully shot.
Julie Andrews is a delight as the plucky Maria, who starts as an erstwhile nun, becomes a governess, and earns the affections of the children of the steely Captain Von Trapp (Christopher Plummer, all poise and polish), not to mention the captain himself. The children are all properly cute and talented, and the supporting performances by Richard Haydn (the charming sponge Max Detweiler) and Eleanor Parker (Captain Von Trapp's would-be society fiancee) hit all the right notes.
If the film has a weakness, it's length; "The Sound of Music" weighs in at almost three hours, which is quite a stretch by today's standards. But in the original theatrical version, there was an intermission, which was common practice for long films in those days.
There are also times that Wise plays it a bit too minimalistically, and the big finish should have more emotional punch than it does, but overall this film is an unqualified smash.
It's worth noting that at the time of its release, "The Sound of Music" was wildly popular; in fact, adjusted for inflation, it's the third highest grossing film in history, behind only "Star Wars" and "Gone With The Wind".
Not bad company for this classic film. And the second DVD disc included with this set - packed with production notes, interviews and extra information - just makes this a better deal.
Enjoy!