Note: There are a few spoilers in here.  So please do not read if you haven't watched the film yet.  Or please do read if you just want to know what happens.

I think it's safe to say that this was Zach Galifianakis' breakthrough performance.  He has always been able to play his usual character.  How awkward can he make a situation without being murdered?  The hilarity isn't just in his performance but in the reaction of others.  It's in his comedy and is shown through his portrayals of other characters in various films such as The Hangover and Due Date.  When I started watching this film, that's what I was expecting, but I found that I was pleasantly surprised by his performance through this film.  He was the perfect foil to the young protagonist.

One thing that I did like about the film was that it portrayed depression from a different perspective.  Some people feel that depression is all or nothing.  You've either hit rock bottom or you're just on the surface like everyone else.  Craig, from his own outward appearance and mannerisms, seems completely fine.  He's smart, willing to explore the world, but scared of the possibilities of failure and his inability to overcome his own fears.  His explanation of why he was afraid, a domino effect of one tragedy after another concluding to being lonely and homeless, was brilliant.  It gave me flashbacks of high school and what I feared the most.  Afer all, it's a double edged sword.  There's the fear of what happens after you fail as well as after you succeed.

Unfortunately, that was the one thing that kept the film enjoyable for me.  I think what I was looking for was a character who is not only relatable but realistic.  And realism for the audience is in the eye of personal experience, but I felt left out of Craig's revelations.  For example, in the beginning he mentions a few of his classmates and their list of accomplishments and finally when it comes to him, underneath his name there is nothing.  I could definitely relate to it.  In his different experiences while at the psychiatric ward, he realizes he loves art and creates wonderful paintings.  In a performance of "Changes," he stuns everyone else.  He even helps his own roommate, Muqtada, come out of the room after simply mentioning that there's more out in the world to experience.  It's obvious that he is noticed through motivating others to "live" just like he wants to.  It's great, but that's when the break in realism happens for me.  Of course, through these characters, there is a reflection of him in each of them.  Each person he helps, he's breaking free a little bit more and more.  With Muqtada, it was the last chain he needed to break free into the real world.  Its symbolism is great, but it's lost on my own feelings toward the film.

A few characters within the film fell flat.  Noelle is a perfect example of this.  She is the girl Craig notices in the psychiatric ward, and they take a liking to each other immediately.  However, after watching the film, I felt that she was a part of his world just to include future tension between Craig and Nia (who was also a very flat character).  And please don't judge me for this, but it's Pixies, not The Pixies (yes, I had to include that somewhere).

Is this film worth seeing?  Despite my own criticisms toward the film, I think this film is definitely worth seeing.  However, it isn't a repeater.  It won't be in my collection that I could comfortably watch again and again on a desert island.  But for something a little uplifting and funny? Definitely.