During the opening scenes I was mystified as to why people raved about this movie.

With the exception of Yves Montand and Jean Louis Trintignant's performances, the acting was woeful,the sound awful.( I sympathise with the person who thought that it was dubbed. It isn't,but the sound on my DVD lacks any "three dimentional" quality.)

The film centers around the murder of a left wing politician and the subsequent investigation into the killing.We are left in no doubt as to the film maker's sympathies - the Government is corrupt and brutal, the opposition pacifist and principled.

But you would do well to remember that the events upon which the story is based (the "Lambrakis Affair")occurred within fifteen years of Greece having been torn apart by civil war.Given this,it is understandable why conservative Greeks would have been terrified at the prospect of what they supposed might transpire were socialism to prevail and why they would have felt justified in taking any steps to prevent that from happening again. .

The film does not give a balanced account. The audience's sympathy is manipulated from the outset and, to that end, every device is used and every  prejudice exploted (including something which would never be acceptable nowadays - presenting one of the assassins as being a liscivious homosexual).

The plot gains it's momentum when a magistrate (played by Trintignant),starts to conduct his investigations.Just as he dislapays an  inclination to accept, at face value, the falsified evedence placed  before him,our indignation increases. We despair of him ever percieving what actually happened or of him possessing the integrity to expose it

As one who lived through the time when the government of my own country sanctioned political murder whilst making as if it was endeavoring to uphold justice and truth, I was struck by how my feelings about the events depicted in this film resonated with my anger at those which occured in South Africa.

The greatness of Z lies in the fact that, despite it's obvious bias, it still manages to provoke such outrage.