Under the category of movies with singularly absurd premises, there are two sub-categories: those that are unwatchable precisely because of their absurd premise, and those that are thoroughly enjoyable precisely because of their absurd premise.
Face/Off falls in the latter sub-category. The singularly absurd premise: FBI agent Sean Archer (John Travolta) has his face removed by high-technology laser surgery, kept in a preservative bath, and replaced with that of comatose killer Castor Troy (Nicolas Cage). His mission: to pose as Troy in a high-security prison for the most dangerous criminals alive, and get vital information on the whereabouts of a time bomb somewhere in LA from Troy's brother Pollux. The mission is so top-secret that even the prison officials don't know. Nor do Archer's wife and daughter.
Now, here's where the absurdity mounts, and with it the fun: Castor, confined in the secret facility where the surgery was performed, suddenly wakes from his coma. He feels no face, sees Archer's face in the glass liquid container, puts two and two together, and phones his henchmen, who kidnap the facility's staff and the few others who know about the operation, have them attach Archer's face where Castor's once was, and then kill them. Castor Troy becomes Sean Archer, Sean Archer becomes Castor Troy, at least in face. Troy visits Archer at the prison to tell him to expect to spend the rest of his life behind bars, so Archer must find a way to get out.
Whew. It's actually a lot less complicated to watch, which is exactly what makes it so much fun. Plus, the high-tech laser surgery scenes lend the whole face-swapping scenario a respectable degree of credibility.  Throw in John Woo's inimitable directorial style, wherein violence is treated poetically, and you have a movie that's flat-out fun to watch. 
And let's not overlook the demands of the script on the two lead actors. Travolta had to play the good guy, and then the bad guy pretending to be the good guy, but only when among the real good guys. Cage had to play the bad guy, and then the good guy pretending to be the bad guy, but only when among the real bad guys.
Get it? 
You don't?
Then I strongly urge you to give this piece of barbaric lunacy a try. It's not the sort of film that earns Oscar nominations, but it's definitely a lot of fun, the kind we all have to treat ourselves to now and then.