I think I have figured out why the quality of this film is so heavily disputed: It is a comedy without jokes. Everything onscreen, from the characters to the sets to--especially to--the dialogue is so incredibly amusing that many folks cannot seem to comprehend what the film is doing. I'll enlighten those who have yet to enjoy the majesty of this film: It isn't cracking mundane, vulgar, stereotypical gags like every other film, it is reinventing humor, redesignating what is funny, what it takes to make the audience laugh. You can't watch five minutes of this film and find it humorous, because everything about it is an experiment in new and interesting ways to amuse a crowd; obviously they can't please everyone, but for me the film has become my all time favorite comedy.
Humor, as defined by the Coens, is more obscure than you or your Webster's considers it. For them, humor is an all encompassing showcase that cannot be taken apart into simple categories of performance, and script, and intelligence--and yet all three of these succeed well beyond most other films, as the Coen brothers are perhaps the most inventive in the industry today. Because the funny aspect of the Hudsucker Proxy lies in a perfect amalgamation of every element of the film, it disappoints those people who are looking for "one moment in time; so they can say right here, right now; this is it." With the Coens, this is impossible, since it is always about the sum of the parts rather than the integrity of a single aspect at a single moment.
But even beyond the humor of this film, I cannot help but praise it incessantly. Visually, as usual, it sets a stunning image, achieving a style that is entertaining in itself. The dialogue, whether you consider it funny or not, can be deemed nothing but intelligent and witty. The performances are dead-on and borderline eccentric/absurd, for what the Coen brothers are famous. The direction is always superb--and proof positive that even the direction plays a major role in the "jokes" of the Hudsucker Proxy, watch the camera during the Lounge Singers performance; the single greatest shot in the film has no dialogue and not even one of the main characters, and yet it punctuates the intended frivolity of the entire picture.
Some have commented that the viewer has little affection for the characters. To everyone their own, but MY own is that I TOO heartily fall in love with these characters. Tim Robbins is the clumsy everyman that any humbled human will see in himself; Jennifer Jason Leigh is our ambition, and tragic despite the darker side of her story. I'd go even so far as to say I like Paul Newman's character, whom despite the evil way in which he is portrayed, models our lowest and greediest selves. And so, while many contest the characters to be too inconsequential, I say they are the driving force, relating the viewer to himself in new and impossible ways amidst a superbly entertaining script. Again, some call the script pointless, but truth be told, I find this plot to be more well developed than most of the Coen brothers' other works.
And through all of these traits, Hudsucker takes the cake as my favorite comedy of all time. There is just something incredibly inventive, humorous, and intelligent in every single shot, every single word, every single expression and mannerism that the talented cast, crew, and filmmakers have put on the screen. There is a gift in everything to be witnessed, as every individual part is perfect--and perfectly implemented, since the final product far exceeds the sum of its parts. In short, from the minutest detail to the overall scheme, everything about this film pleases in new and unexpected ways that intend to spoof--and appear to--but really reinvent what it means to make a comedy. Take care to pay close attention to what this film offers, as I hope others take note and observe the magic it possesses; The Future is Now!