Women should be disgusted and insulted by the rash of "chick flicks" put out by Hollywood in recent years where women are concerned with little else than shopping and romance. This movie features some very good actresses, but the material is banal and completely lacking in depth.
Meg Ryan plays a rich woman who spends her time doing "fundraising," and although she has only one child, somehow requires a full-time housekeeper (Cloris Leachman) and au pere girl to keep it all going.

Annette Bening, one of the greatest actresses ever, seems to be doing an exact impression of Samantha Jones from Sex and the City; someone should have reminded her that she's too old to play this sort of role. It's a fluff piece better suited to that nitwit Anne Hathaway.
The strangest thing about this movie is the complete absence of any men. All the extras are women; in street scenes, there is not a man to be seen anywhere. This gimmick would be affective if the film were not so utterly void of substance. It's as though a statement is trying to be made, but when the whole plot is about Meg's unfaithful husband and how she "wins" him back, it becomes all the more irrelevent. And how does she win him back? By becoming a fashion designer and presenting her rather unoriginal inspirations in a typical flashy New York gala. It happens effortlessly; and suddenly she's loveable again and worthy of her husband's attention.
Fashion is far more important than raising money for charities.

Debra Messing's part is so appalling it isn't even worth mentioning, but the worn-out child bearing scene was nauseating. Jada Pinkett-Smith is the ill-cast token lesbian who has to be freaked out by all things baby related. The acting is over-the-top, and the whole plot is silly. Hands down, the only good scenes belong to Canadace Bergen, and whoever wrote her lines should have taken over the whole script because hers are the only ones with any substance or authenticity.
Women in their late 40s and early 50s should not be in appalling films such as this. They should be portraying politicians, movers, shakers, thinkers - women who have lived, experienced, and are taken seriously outside the realm of men, money, and Gucci bags. In other words, women of substance who actually have something to offer other than shopping at Saks and getting their nails done.