When I watched "Elizabeth" my girlfriend brought up something I hadn't thought much of- imagine, she said, of how difficult things must have been for Queen Elizabeth when she came onto the throne in the middle  of the 16th century given how little society at the time educated women.  The pressures of ruling a country divided at home between Protestants and  Catholics, and menaced abroad by the ambitions of France and Spain, were  bad enough. As a woman, Queen Elizabeth had to endure another difficult  barrier to successfully governing England. That this woman was able not  only to survive, but to thrive and lead England into what many call the  realm's Golden Age, is nothing short of miraculous.
"Elizabeth"  is a film by Shekhar Kapur about the coming of age of what may have been  England's greatest monarch- Queen Elizabeth. It is an exceptional film  about an exceptional figure from history. Cate Blanchett is the title  character and she can only be described as brilliant in the role. Her  character goes from terrorized to uncertain to confidant, from a beautiful  and vibrant young woman to a cold and cruel Queen. Blanchett pulls off the  performance in spades. This is an actress with some serious talent.
I  also enjoyed Geoffrey Rush's performance as Elizabeth's loyal advisor. Rush  is a talented actor ("Shine", "Shakespeare In Love")  who pulls off the part with relish- cold, menacing, calculating.
I found  the dark conspiracy against Elizabeth that dominated the second half of the  film took away, somewhat, from the overall feel of the film. The second  half of the film is, to a certain extent, Rush's film. This is not a bad  thing, mind you, but the second half of the film leaves Elizabeth reacting  to events more than initiating them. Casting-wise Joseph Fiennes and  Richard Attenborough turn in good performances as Elizabeth's lover and  principle advisor.
"Elizabeth" is, on the balance, an amazing  film about a difficult historical figure to pin down. The strengths of this  film are in its two leads- Blanchett and Rush are both outstanding. See  this movie for their performances alone.