The problem with this movie is that it wasn't gay enough.

 Comparisons to Fame are inevitable, but instructive on how far we haven't come in twenty years.

 In Fame, the sensitive guitar-playing Montgomery is gay, pparently the only homosexual in the entire school, & he doesn't seem to have a romantic life of any kind. He's rather pathetic - his mother doesn't love him, he sees an analyst regularly.

 In Camp, the sensitive guitar-playing Vlad is the only straight guy at the summer camp. He has a romantic life big time, with a girlfriend at home and successfully wooing three girls at the camp (two of which he beds) and one guy (whom he flirts with not because he has any interest in sex with him, but just because he can). In fact, the entire movie revolves around him. Because he mustn't be seen to be without his own personal problems, he reveals to his gay friend that he has an unusual brain disorder (he obsessively counts the letters of words). That of course puts him on an exact par with a cross-dressing gay youth who gets beaten up at his junior prom and has been rejected by his parents. Why, we're all a bit "queer", aren't we?

 Having restored one character's self-esteem, Vlad proceeds to do the same with one of his would-be girlfriends - he's not so successful at this, what with his sleeping around and all which she seems to find objectionable. But then for his major project, he rehabilitates the career of a washed-up Broadway composer. Thank God for straight males!

 Apart from the pathetic love-struck guy, all the other gay boys in the picture recede into the background very early on. There is an amusing interchange between one of them and the camp sports counsellor ("WE have a SPORTS COUNSELLOR??") that might have been developed into a comic subplot. Other characters might have been developed to explore further what it is like to be adolescent and gay - there aren't a lot of movies with popular appeal that have done that.

 Instead, there's a silly subplot involving the camp "rich bitch" and her slavish follower, who later turns against her with a vengeance. (I think this was supposed to remind us of "All About Eve" but it seems more on the level of Archie comics or The Brady Bunch). There's a running gag (with an incongruously dramatic denouement) centred around a girl whose parents have had her jaw wired shut so she'll lose weight during the summer.

 The musical numbers are by and large good (read: fantastic for the opening number "How Shall I See You Through My Tears?" featuring Sasha Allen & "Here's Where I Stand" with Tiffany Taylor). On the whole, however, I'd suggest renting this to see once, rather than buying it.