The "R" rating should have given me clarity, but I couldn't resist any acting by Judi Dench.  I wish I had.

AFTER viewing with discomfort, I carefully read the small print:  "Spellbinding, wickedly entertaining [and a] sexy stylish thriller," cheers ROLLING STONE--well, what do you expect?  And "all the RIGHT [emphasis added] ingredients: lust, greed, envy...." says INTERVIEW.

Yes, I know the reality of adult-child and pushy adult-to-adult sex does exist, but I can't fathom the reason for making a movie of either for "entertainment" purposes, especially without a clear moral lesson.  Some may think the lesson (or lessons) is obvious, but I agree that it tends toward moral relativity--an idea that is not anathema to hedonists (a description some resent and others relish).

The movie is supposed to be about desperate and solitary lives, obsessive behavior and two consumed women and, I guess, a consumed 15-year-old male student that chases a young female teacher who, in turn, willingly persists in sex with this student.  So, student Steven wants to get into bed with young teacher Cate (and does), who has reciprocal feelings, and the older (lesbian) teacher Barbara connives to get into bed with the same younger, attractive teacher (but can't).  You can imagine the raw emotions involved.

The whole sordid story has no point beyond perverse entertainment--yes, I don't mind moralizing.  The story just ends: young teacher Sheba Hart (actress Cate Blanchett) gets only 10 months in jail and fired, the pushy lesbian teacher and pursuer Barbara Covett (actress Judi Dench) has to retire early only to--as the last movie scene fades--continue connivingly pursuing youngish females.

What's the point?  So, they're lonely!  As the appalled husband of the child-molester teacher (yep, that what's it's called elsewhere, but treated differently here) yells (and I say to both):  "Just deal with it!"

I can only concede that both actresses played their parts disturbingly well--the best I can say; that's worth at least one star. Of course, an "R" rating usually means that just about anything goes--and it pretty much does, though it wouldn't deserve an "X" rating.

I watched this DVD movie with another person who disagrees with me--such is life.  But we did agree on one thing:  the music is so loud that it almost drowns out the voice of Judi Dench, who narrates parts of the movie.