I'm a huge Wonder Woman fan and received this DVD as a birthday present.  Since Wonder Woman has never been given the star treatment of other comic book heroes(where is her live-action movie?), I felt that even an animated movie was long overdue, and looked forward to seeing the film.
It's horrible.  It's worse than horrible. It's the death of a classic, and the shredding of what was a strong, thoughtful, feminist role model for little girls. The logic errors are enough to put your teeth on edge (the Amazons have a supersonic invisible jet, but no guns? The God of War has been made impotent for generations, but wars continue to rage on earth? And where did all those Pegasuses come from, and since when do Amazons ride them ineffectually into battle?), but worst of all is the treatment of Wonder Woman herself.

As originally conceived, Wonder Woman was, at her core, curious about the world of Man and eager to explore the cultural differences between Paradise Island and the United States. Well, no longer. In this film, she's a judgmental man-hater, nasty to other women, and a ruthless killer.  The Wonder Woman of my childhood was a fierce patriot who always turned over the bad guys to the authorities.  Granted, the storyline here is so implausible and convoluted that it's never clear if the bad guys are monsters or men, but her actions have nothing to do with justice. The film leads up to one big bloodbath, and Wonder Woman is on the side of no one but herself. Steve Trevor isn't the genial, obtuse love-interest; he's a rude, sexist frat boy.

The elimination of anything even remotely admirable about the female characters in this film is so thorough, I could only conclude that it was deliberate; perhaps to assure that the intended audience would be angry, lovelorn teenage males, not small girls and others who long to see a leading female who is neither vampy nor vapid.  Even Hera is reduced to a soft-spoken wife who urges the Amazons to listen to Zeus, the raging father, and spare the life of a rapist.

I've never written a review on Amazon, but this film is so dreadful, I felt I had to do what I could to warn people to save their money.  Wonder Woman deserves better than this!