Executive Decision is one of those rare action films that offers an intelligent plot and good characters while avoiding the lapses of violence and excess that are often typical of the genre.  The makers of Executive Decision ensure that the movie does not degenerate into a story that  revolves around one dominating ego.  What makes Executive Decision a great  movie is that it gives us an ensemble of characters who suddenly find  themselves in a situation that forces them to be more than they ever  thought possible.  Kurt Russell, in a fine departure from past macho roles  like Snake Plisken, is a deskbound analyst who unexpectedly finds himself  coming up face to face with a terrorist whom he previously studied in the  safety of his cubicle.  John Leguizamo acquits himself well as the gung-ho  Rat, who finds the burden of command thrust upon him, and learns that he must balance his desire to charge into the fray  with patience and planning.  Oliver Platt, as the engineer Cahill, perhaps  finds himself witht the most daunting task, disarming the bomb under the  guidance of the paralyzed Cappy (Joe Morton).  The always lovely Halle  Berry, as the stewardess Jean, also gives us the character of an ordinary  person finding the courage to be brave in an extraordinary situation.  David Suchet as the villain Nagi Hassan, plays his character with the  proper level of creepy calculation.  Arab-Americans have condemned  Executive Decision as promoting stereotypes of Arabs as evil terrorists,  but I do not think that the charge is warranted.  When Nagi's right hand  man realizes that Nagi's plan was not to free their leader but to make a  suicidal bombing attack on the United States, he condemns Nagi, saying  "This has nothing to do with Islam!"  My only complaint with  this film is having Kurt Russell's character, who is taking flying lessons  at the beginning of the movie, land the jet airliner after the pilots are  killed.  I couldn't help but think of Robert Hays in Airplane with buckets  of sweat pouring down his face while Robert Stack cajoles him from the  tower and Lloyd Bridges declares that he picked the wrong week to stop  sniffing glue.  Aside from this minor lapse into absurd excess, Executive  Decision is an intelligent action thriller with a great cast.  It is one of  the most treasured movies in my video library.