Wes Craven is usually an original, inventive, horror guru but this was not the case with They.  The movie begins with the usual scared kid in his room, being comforted by his mother after screaming out at night.  After being calmed, the mother leaves her son to the light-a-phobic shadow dwellers and they come for him (cut to main character).  
THE BAD STUFF:  The Heroine of this movie is a Sara-plain-and-tall who is finishing her thesis for her masters in psychology.  She of course suffered from `Night Terrors' as a child and has since come to terms with her past, now she is a thriving young woman with a future.  Suddenly all turns up side down, a friend from the past contacts her and informs her that "THEY" are back ... !scary!!  She immediately meets the crazy friend just in time to chit-chat with him before he blows his brains out.  Normally this would be a very emotional and riveting scene, but it was more annoying than anything else.  The script at this juncture was extremely childish and pre-packaged so that any chances and enjoyment were long gone.
Now that the plot has been establish, you would expect the movie to explode with stunning situations of terror ... sorry this movie does not come with any.  Two friends of the dead guy join up with our main character (who all live in weakly lit lofts or apartments, go figure) to pool their resources in an attempt to free themselves of "THEY".  Normally in a movie you would expect some inventive explanation of what is going on, but the characters have no clue, and as such, nor will you.  The only explanation given is that the monsters come for you initially as a child; they mark you; then retrieve you at a latter date.  Once the mark returns, you're screwed!  Weak all around movie!
THE GOOD STUFF:  On the DVD there is an alternate ending which actually had an inclining of old school Wes Craven.  The main character is in an unfamiliar room that has a locked door with a window.  She looks through the window and notices that she is in a mental ward, and all of the characters in the story are all either patients (like her) or doctors.  She continues to look through the window when a monster smashes through; she jumps back and looks again and realizes that she just imagined that too.  This, with a complete write of most of the scenes before it, would have produced at least a entertaining movie.