OK.  First, the positives.  Meryl Streep delivers an unbelievable performance as Danish writer Karen Blixen, who travels to Kenya to be with her unfaithful husband, develops and runs a plantation, and falls in love with an elusive, emotionally distant adventurer (supposedly British).  Meryl is convincingly emotional throughout; her Danish accent is quite good and was obviously perfected through coaching, and her heartbreak by the end of the film at how much she lost certainly tugs at one's heart as well.  Why she did not win the Best Actress Oscar for this performance, possibly her finest ever, is unforgivable.  The other positives are the gorgeous cinematography and wonderful musical score; it sets up quite a visual and audio treat for the eyes and ears.

BUT...and this is a large caveat...the story becomes dull and quite ponderous.  Why do we care about these characters ?  What do we learn from them ?  Do the details of their relationship with each other develop and involve us to the point where we really care about what will happen to them ?  I think not. This is the fatal flaw of the film as a whole,and it doesn't help that Robert Redford is horribly miscast as the white hunter Denys who lives life on his own terms. In truth, he was actually  a British man in real life, and Redford doesn't even attempt to affect a British accent or tone but simply portray him as a sort of all-American jock who somehow got waywardly sent to Africa.  A British or Australian actor could have done so much more with this role (imagine Richard Chamberlain or, if he would have been around at the time, Russell Crowe).

And the whole plot revolves around not so much as this -- Danish writer follows German husband to Africa; Danish writer ends up running a plantation while German husband is unfaithful.  As a result, Danish writer falls in love with hunter who will not emotionally commit.  Danish writer also catches venereal disease from her unfaithful husband.  And then...well, I won't give away the conclusion.  But to spend two-and-a-half to two-and-three quarters of an hour to develop this rather unexciting story can often find one snoozing or just focusing on the wonderful Meryl or sumptuous photography of Africa accompanied by lovely music in order to stay awake.

As you can tell, I have very mixed feelings about 'Out of Africa'.  At the time of its release, I thought it was a masterpiece, but in my opinion, it has not aged well even though the positives it always had remain there.  If the story would remain more emotionally involving, it would be a great film.  As it stands, it is only an interesting but overlong one and the overall effect is rather flat.