I've just been listening to a BBC program called "And The Academy Award Goes To..." when I heard a film reviewer make a sacrilegious statement, "The Longest Day is not a very good movie". I've felt that for years. The first weekend The Longest Day opened, my buddy & I rode the bus 14 miles into Seattle to see this. We were thrilled, but since we were watching through our clear 10 year old eyes, we could spot a "fakey" movie when we saw it. The use of Messerschmidt bf-108's was glaring, but when the film was made there were few(if any) bF-109's flying(except for with Franco's air force), and of course most of the cast was too old, like John Wayne as Lt. Col. Benjamin Vandervoort(no wonder his ankle broke, the Duke weighed about 500 pounds), or was too phoney, like Paul Anka. Still, at least this was not "woven around the love of a man and a woman", and this is a decent interpretation of the events around the D-Day invasion. The scenes of Omaha & Utah beaches were too wide open, the weather too good. The cinematographer should have concentrated on quality of image, rather than always going for sweeping views of the beaches, where the 2- or 3 thousand extras were swallowed up by the vastness of the undertaking. I feel the best battle scenes are around the fortified casino in Ouistreham.

The contribution of the Brits, Commonwealth Forces, and French were overexpanded, everyone knows the US did this alone. HEY, I am KIDDING about that- I'm sick of war flicks where so-called artistic license is taken to overemphasize, maximize, or invent the American contribution, such as in the equally overrated "The Great Escape", and one of the most glaring Hollywood fantasies, the absolutely shameful "U-571". At least this isn't colorized, which some people think would enhance this film. Personally, when I think of the war in the Pacific, I think in color, for the ETO, it's black & white, "The Great Escape" notwithstanding. The bottom line: this isn't a "great" movie, only a fair one, but the events depicted are pivotal to civilization. If the panzer reserves were closer to the beaches, if the weather was worse, or too fine, the Allies could easily have been thrown back into the sea. Like the Battle Of Britain, El Alamein, the Coral Sea, Midway, the Normandy invasion plays a pivotal role in the recovery and preservation of a free Western Europe. And "The Longest Day" played a pivotal role in the preservation of 20th Century Fox, to make Fox safe for reality TV and to help establish tabloid sports reporting