I don't mind brainless action movies, but even the most accepting movie buff has to have some standards, and Tomb Raider can't even meet those.  Yes there are some cool scenes (like the fight against the stone monkeys and the bungie battle in the house, but they seem disjointed, contrived, and the result of a group of "writers" who tossed in ideas in an attempt to liven up a pretty dull film.  The story, ha ha, centers around two pieces of a triangle that when put together at the right time will give its weilder the power to go back in time.  Well, Laura has one of these pieces (its in her house).  I thought it would have been cooler for Laura to have found the first piece herself, but oh well, the army of writers who came up with this film thought otherwise.  At the point where Laura has one piece I thought to myself, why doesn't she just destroy it.  That would stop the bad guys.  But no!  She basically gives the bad guys the piece.
There are other rediculous logical gaps in the movie and I think it may be the result of horrible editting.  There seem to have been quite a lot of transitions that never made it from script to film or from film to final edit.  For instance, Laura's partners ask her how she expects to get from London to Cambodia in 15 hours to which she replies that she will have to call in a favor.  In the next scene, she is in Cambodia.  Ugh, how did she get there?  What favor did she call in?  Eh, whatever.  Lazy scriptwriters, bad editing.
Even the action scenes lack tension. In the first scene, she is fighting a robot.  But you learn that the robot is designed to help her train.  No tension there.  Then the movie tries to set up the story for about ten to fifteen mintues.  Yawn.  Then, Laura for some odd reason is relaxing in her home attached to bungie cords when her home is attacked by Illuminati thugs.  You can almost imagine the conference room when the writers came up with the idea to this scene:  "We'll have her bouncing around on bungie cords, it will be cool, who cares if it makes no sense."  This is the only real action scene with any tension because there are actually bad guys trying to kill her.
The stone monkey scene is ok at first, but then you realize that anyone, including my 85 year old grandmother, can beat these deadbeats by merely kicking them.
And am I the only person who felt that the ending of the movie was a rip of Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade?
I guess we have ourselves to blame for Hollywood producing such poor action movies as Tomb Raider (this movie made over 100 million dollars in its theatrical run), but the least you can do is save yourselves: don't waste a second of your life watching this movie.