Jekyll & Hyde the Musical opened on Broadway in 1997 and then in 2000 before it left the theatre, the show was recorded with a current cast which included Baywatch's David Hasselhoff, Coleen Saxton and Andrea Rivette as Jekyll/Hyde, Lucy and Emma respectively.

As for me, I like the music and the plot of Jekyll & Hyde very much especially the big songs like "This Is the Moment" and "Someone Like You". I saw the show when it was touring in Chattanooga, Tennessee in 2000 and bought the cast recording and still can't put it down until today.

I bought this DVD with the hope of revisiting the musical that I enjoyed. The production was fine. It was a bit different in the tour but I still enjoy it. What bothers me are the actors! David Hasselhoff to begin with, he's really bad. The songs sung by Jekyll/Hyde require great actor-singer to perform them, not just any actor who can sing. Hassellhoff couldn't match with previous actors like Anthony Warlow, Robert Evan or Bob Cuccioli at all. He seems to be off-beat most of the time. His facial expression is horrible. He ruined "Lost in the Darkness" and "This Is the Moment" and other songs as well. Still, I would have to say that he did quite well in "Confrontation". He certainly surpasses my expectation in that one.

For the ladies, I would always adore Linda Eder and Christiane Noll. Though Coleen Saxton and Andrea Rivette can't live up to those performance but I think their performances are still enjoyable especially their duet in "In His Eyes". I watch that scene so many times I lost count. Their solos in songs like "Once Upon a Dream" and "Someone Like You/A New Life" are quite good.

The ensemble are kinda weird. I don't like the blocking for "Facade" and "Murder,Murder". It's different from what I saw before and what's with the umbrella? I also dislike the guys who play Utterson, Stride and Sir Carew.

Overall, if you are new to Jekyll & Hyde, I suggest you stick to the cast recording first. There are many versions available: The 1990 concept version with Colm Wilkinson and Linda Eder, The 1995 Complete Recording with Anthony Warlow, and The 1997 Original Broadway Cast with Bob Cuccioli. To me, the OBC is the best in terms of overall listening but Anthony Warlow is the best Jekyll/Hyde.

If you are familiar with Jekyll & Hyde and want to have the stage version of the show then buy it but be prepared with the standards of the actors. They're not as good as the OBC at all.