This dark comedy is laced with satire, humor, and wit, much like many of my favorite novels.  Winona Ryder and Christian Slater make the ideal duo - until she realizes she needs "cool guys like him out of her life."
Winona, here as Veronica Sawyer, was formerly the best gal pal of dorky yet insanely innocent and kind Betty Finn (both character names are derived from the Archie comic strip).  Now, she's taken it up with three girls by the name of Heather.  Duke and Chandler may or may not be genuinely evil, while McNamara is just plain pathetically insecure.  The thing is, Veronica hates her new so-called friends.  It's just their "job to be popular and s***," that's all.
Christian Slater, to my utter dismay, seems to have disappeared off the face of the earth since this booming debut.  Here, his performance mimicks that of witty and humorous Jack Nicolson.  
"Greetings and salutations." :)
J.D. and Veronica make the ideal couple.  Both are witty, bright, and loathe the existence of the high school world.  Only J.D. is insanely violent as well, and his actions are bringing about vast repercussions for not only himself, but for Veronica as well.  And Veronica is beginning to wise up and realize that J.D., despite his charms and wit, isn't worth all his trouble(s) and excess baggage.  Besides, he's got an unhealthy fascination with guns.
After the demise of the leading Heather - their doing through liquid bleach - a second Heather takes her place as leader, even more aggressive and bratty than her predecessor.
Veronica ponders what to do over old and new friendships and accidental deaths in her diary.  She and hunky J.D. manage to kill a Heather and two dim-witted jocks but escape suspicion for murder because they leave behind suicide notes.  Veronica can perfectly imitate handwriting styles, as we find out during the first 5 minutes of the film when the three Heathers coerce her into writing a love note to high school outcast Martha "Dumptruck" Dunstock and signing a popular jock's signature to it.  She approaches him at his lunch table and uproarious laughter ensues.
Teenage suicide seems to be all the rage in the world of Westerburg High, despite the popularity of fictional band Big Fun's hit single, "Teenage Suicide (Don't Do It)."  Even though Veronica has left J.D. behind, he still has conjured up his own evil plans concerning the future of Westerburg.  And the Heather in control is abusing her privileges - Veronica knows she wants out.  
HEATHERS is so much more than a screwball comedy.  Since its release, no other film has managed to live up to the same wit and dark humor and charm found throughout, making this film a genuine benchmark in the history of movies - and the 80s, for that matter.  HEATHERS takes one glimpse at the work of ultra-cool 80s director/writer John Hughes and laughs in his face, making his Molly Ringwald flicks look like garbage in comparison.
Could this be why Winona is still alive in Hollywood and Molly is not?
Perhaps.