First, let me just say that if you have not yet had the privilege of seeing this masterpiece of film, then you don't know what you are missing. From director Cecille B. DeMille (Samson & Delilah, The Greatest Show on Earth), comes the story of one man's journey to free his people.

The land of Egypt prospers from the labor of their Israelite slaves, until the Pharaoh has a dream that one day, the slaves will revolt. To prevent this, Pharaoh decrees the deaths of all newborn male Israelite babies. One woman saves her son by setting him adrift in a basket on the Nile River until the basket finds its way to the royal palace. Bithia (Nina Foch), the daughter of Pharaoh, decides to raise the baby as her own son and names him Moses.

Time goes on and Moses, now played by Charlton Heston, grows into a young man and a commander in the Egyptian army. He lives to serve the new Pharaoh Seti (an aged Sir Cedric Hardwicke) and is the affection of the Princess Nefertiri (Anne Baxter). Moses is constantly butting heads with his step brother Rameses (Yul Brynner in top form) over Nefertiri and the construction of a new city. One day, Moses gets a glimpse of how terribly the Hebrew slaves are treated and kills an Egyptian master, Baka (played by crafty Vincent Price). Pharaoh Seti names Rameses as the next Pharaoh, who then promptly exiles his step-brother. Edward G Robinson is exceptional as the shifty Dathan, a Hebrew who doubts both Moses and the power of God

Moses wanders the desert before beginning a new life with a family of sheppards where he discovers a burning bush on a mountain. The voice of God is heard from the bush, ordering Moses to return to Egypt to free the slaves. Moses obeys and returns to Egypt but his pleas for freedom fall on the deaf ears of Rameses and a bitter conflict begins between the former brothers. One wants the freedom of his people. The other is willing to bring down the wrath of God for his stubbornness.

The acting in this movie is extremely well done, particularly the two main roles. Charlton Heston and Yul Brynner are great as the former brothers turned enemies and Brynner has several fantastic scenes but I don't want to give alot of them away. Anne Baxter does a great job as the sly, sexy Nefertiri and Hardwicke does well as the Pharaoh in the first half of the film. John Carradine appears as Aaron, Moses' brother, and Yvonne DeCarlo plays Zephorah, Moses' wife.

The special effects are phenomenal, especially the famous parting of the Red Sea sequence and the pillar of fire. No wonder the movie won the Oscar for Best Special Effects, done by John P. Fulton.

The movie itself has many fascinating and lovely scenes, such as the Egyptian army storming out of the city to track down the Hebrews, the worshipping of the Golden Calf, and every scene featuring Moses, Rameses, or Nefertiri. The ten plagues are well done as well, the most noteworthy being the eerie "Angel of Death" scene as a green vapor swirls around Egypt, killing the first born of every Egyptian household.

The DVD release for the movie is amazing, spread over 3 discs. It includes a six-part making of documentary, commentaries, three trailers, and a newsreel of the premiere in New York. The set also includes the 1923 version of the film, which has hand-tinted footage of both the Exodus and Red Sea sequences.

Packed with a star-studded cast, excellent score, memorable scenes, and great bonus features, this DVD set brings the story of Moses full circle. In my opinion, one of the greatest films ever made. Enjoy this timeless classic.