The Spice Girls are the greatest girl group of all time! They were fun they were sexy and they were great role models. Spiceworld marks the girls second album and final album together as a quintet. Sadly they didnt make it past the release of "stop" as a single with Geri intact. Geri Halliwell dropped out before the final single from the album was released and before the girls finished touring the U.S. Much to my dismay when I saw the girls in concert ginger-less. This album though is equivelant to the greatness of Spice and reminds me of the 80's classics of Madonna. The girls improved on there harmonies and polished up there song writing making this great cd that everyone should own!

SPICE GIRLS - SPICEWORLD

1. Spice Up Your Life - The first single off the album, this song has many inspirations from salsa and dance music. There are not many solos and is more like the Spice Girls theme song than an actual pop son. 9/10

2. Stop - This 50s-60s inspired song has Supremes influence written all over it. The song is extremely catchy and fun to listen to. This was the Third single from the album and the first single from the girls to NOT hit #1 in the U.K. 10/10

3. Too Much - A great pop ballad. The second single from the album, this song has great vocals by most of the girls and is a great Spice classic. One of there best. 10/10

4. Saturday Night Divas - A very catchy song that takes a while to get into, but once you d you cant come back! 9/10

5. Never Give Up On The Good Times - An uplifting disco-ish song that gives nothing but positivity. A great tune for the car. 9/10

6. Move Over - A very sassy, sexy song. The song got a lot of flack becuase it was featured in their pepsi commercial. The lyrics are great and its lots of fun to listen to, like most Spice songs. 10/10

7. Do It - Another uplifting song. Great vocals and lots of fun. 9/10

8. Denying - A great R&B song that is sexy and sassy all at the same time. The spice girls have great harmonies on this track as well. Mel B proves her own talent well in this song particulary. 9/10

9. Viva Forever - The last single from the album and the last single that featured all five girls providing vocals. This is a brilliant ballad, the harmonies are immaculate and the vocals are brilliant. The song is beautiful and haunting. Another Spice Girls Best. 10/10

10. Lady Is A Vamp - An extremely fun, jazzy sort of song that pays tribute to all those pop icons of the past such as James Bond, Charlie's Angels, and Jackie-O. The fun is a great showy way to end the album. 9/10

SPICE GIRLS FOREVER