Following on from the last installment of the film series - James Cameron`s groundbreaking Terminator 2: Judgement Day (1991) John Connor (Nick Stahl) is now in his 20`s living off the streets of present day LA - and a female Terminator called the T-X, or Terminatrix is sent back through time to kill John and also his future spouse Kate Brewster (a somewhat miscast and wooden Clare Danes, as her sole acting requirement appears to be to look frightened and scream). As before, a T-800 unit (Arnie) is also sent back to protect John....
Where do I start? As a standalone action piece, I enjoyed this film and thought it was great fun. Perhaps my expectations were set too high though when thinking of it as a `sequel` to the other parts - the setup is almost identical to T2 for one thing with basically the same story, just with a new, upgraded Terminator. This surely smacks of laziness.

Brad Fiedel`s classic score, so synonomous with the two previous films in building up tension, is missing (though a new version of the famous theme is reprised at the end).
This film got a suprisingly lax 12A rating in Britain (compared to an R in the United States). It was perhaps due to a combination of all the killings happening offscreen and the lack of a recognisable, claustrophobic score (so we can know when the T-X is coming, for example) that made this film feel different. Where was the menace?
I never really got the feeling the T-X (a hot looking Kristanna Loken, who dresses in red leather) posed any real danger which was a shame - she lacks the cruel, sadistic nature of Robert Patrick in Terminator 2, or the `hunter` quality of Arnie in the first film, and of course looks like a catwalk model. The sort of person who would pout if you stole her Macy`s card.
This absence of impending doom or evil is no mean feat when you consider the main thrust of the film is about an approaching nuclear holocaust.
I liked the referential humour in this film though and there were some good jokes. Witness the gentle self parody of the scene where Arnie enters a strip club on `Ladies Night` - reaches into his leather jacket to put on his famous shades, and pulls out a pair of star shaped glasses Elton John would have worn in his 70`s heyday. Priceless.  
There were some very good action scenes, including an unbelievable car chase that rivals a similar scene from The Matrix Reloaded, and some astounding effects.
The last act, and in particular the conclusion of the film, is brilliant. I won`t spoil the ending for you, but suffice to say it is remarkably downbeat for a Hollywood film, and more importantly remains true to the spirit of The Terminator franchise. Make no mistake, Jim Cameron`s ghost haunts this film, the ending recalling what he left behind.
Certainly not up to the standards of Cameron`s earlier classics in my opinion as its` less thought provoking and dark, but its` still a good film overall.