The positive side of this is that it's wonderful to have these episodes on DVD. I've been waiting for a long time. Hope to see the full series available someday. But, as a consumer, I deserve better. I'm not going to grovel and say "It's OK to give us a cheaply-made product, just so I have any version of NX on DVD!" I don't mind paying a high price for a quality production, but this is an embarrassment to Universal. It's like they let the interns take over or something. Actually, my interns produce better work than this - maybe they SHOULD'VE turned it over to the interns.

I'm one of those fans who's willing to pay the price because I love the series, but who thinks we're getting ripped off with the sloppiness and cheap production of this DVD. I don't believe for one minute the music licensing is the cause of this. If the DVD had been produced properly, I'd be OK with the price, but this is the flimsiest version of a TV season DVD I've ever seen.

The annoyances of this DVD set: The parka package is a cheap gimmick I could do without. Just makes it annoying to pack and store. I took it off and stuck it in a closet somewhere. I would rather have seen the effort that went into the parka go into the DVD (I know it doesn't work that way). Flimsy, two-sided discs are really annoying. They had to do this for a mere 8 episodes? Rubbish. It makes it frustrating to play. Labeling is confusing, hard to read, poorly done.  I wouldn't even care to pay this price for a mere 8 episodes, if the quality of this was as it should be. And, it looks as if we have the same sloppiness to look forward to with the second season. I also wasn't impressed with the extras. They could've boosted the quality by giving fans something special here, but don't seem to be committed enough to this project to do so.

It is great to see the episodes here. Aurora Borealis is one of my favorites. I'd buy the set just for this one. The only draw to this set is if it has episodes on it you really want to have. If it does, you'll probably give in to the price, put up with the poor quality and buy the set. That's how good the show was.

I'm hoping someday we'll get a properly-produced box set of this series that is produced with the care it deserves. I'm not holding my breath though, so this seems to be what we're going to get and have to look forward to with future releases. Too bad - this show and its fans deserve better.