OMG what have they done to this once funny, entertaining, sexy show. It has descended into a miserable risible badly written joke. The storylines are horrid, unconvincing, absurd, and cringe-making. Let me list some of these:

1. Max. I don't think I need to say any more about this bizarre addition to the show. Got just about everything wrong. Deeply embarrassing.

2. Dana. Why did she have to get ill and die ? She was one of the most lovable characters, goofy and yet sort of inspiring. A horrid horrid storyline. If I want health care messages I will go and watch documentaries. Profoundly depressing and upset the entire balance and mood of the show. How am I supposed to enjoy a sex scene one moment, and then a scene of mutilation ? To me it seemed utterly baffling and willful of the writers to do this to this character and this show. For this reason alone I hated the entire season. But there was more.

3. Helena. Sorry, who was this person ? Was she the same person in season 2 referred to as "the scourge of the universe " ? And as for that cringe-making risible sexual harassment set up scene ? One of the worse TV scenes I have ever had to watch.

4. Alice. A obsessed deranged stalker ? Thanks. Another of my favorite characters twisted into some un-characteristic pathetic storyline.

5. Bette. Take one strong dynamic character and stamp on her repeatedly with an utterly implausible and unbelievable plot development. Shove in an hysterically dopey spiritual retreat, and ask her to weep repeatedly. I felt sympathy for the actress who was in obvious discomfort.

6. Tina. Sorry ? All she needs is a bit of manhood ? Am I watching a show about lesbians, written by lesbians, validating lesbian life ? I must have missed something.

7. Kit and manny. Just get him off please. It is so wrong it is not even funny.

8. Shame and Carmen. Do you really think Shane would betray the gorgeous Carmen for that weird dopey Sherrie ? So unbelievable that I joked back the guffaws whilst flinching.

I could go on. Maybe I should. The show did. I am only half way through and have decided to abandon it. I can't take the stupidity, the sheer implausibility, the utter misery, the cringe-making plotlines and character development any more. I don't ask for much about a show dedicated for once in television history, to lesbian life: an attempt to show it in a postive light for hell's sake, rather than as a bunch of dysfunctional, feckless, cheating, manipulative, obsessive, stupid wierdos (albeit pretty).

It's cast a deeply melancholy air over my viewing life. I'm off to watch Alias 5 instead.