I remember seeing the previews for this on TV, and from the moment I saw them I knew this would be an awful movie. Then last week my roommate decided to rent it so we could see just how bad this movie actually was. 
Well I've never had my lowest expectations for a movie cut under like this ever before. Without a doubt,this is the worst movie I have ever seen. The acting and storyline were completely ridiculous--and not in the funny way either. People say that this filmed was aimed at kids...yeah, like a gunshot to the head. No kid I know enjoyed this movie in the least.
Dana Carvey tries to pull off this awful story and fails miserably. There are running gags that are infuriating and depressing, and not funny at all. I laughed more in "Schindler's List".
Before I saw this, I thought I'd already seen the worst movie ever made, but oh boy was I wrong. The trailers for this film were obviously the "best" scenes in the film, because everything else was completely devoid of sense, reason, creativity, and humor. And it's only an hour and fifteen minutes long!!
To top it off, there are deleted/alternate scenes on this DVD. Obviously not cut for the fear of running time, these scenes are each introduced by the stupid and annoying "Turtle Guy". These are the scenes that weren't "good enough" for the movie??!!?? I want a day back for each of the minutes I spent watching this stupid waste of time and money. It is a black hole of stupidity, sucking away all talent and humor and realism into a void from whence it can NEVER EVER be retrieved.
The acting is terrible, the special effects are awful, the storyline is truly non-existent, and the "humorous" parts induce painful headaches and suicidal feelings. I have lost all respect for anyone involved in the making of this "film". 
Many bad movies are entertaining to laugh at how bad they are, but I didn't laugh once in this. The only reason this got one star was because they don't have "negative" ratings here at Amazon.com. So for the love of God and everything sacred on Earth and in heaven do NOT see this terrible movie. Don't say I didn't warn you!!