To say the least, `The Godfather Part II' is the best movie sequel of all  time. Just as compelling as the first one and in some ways even better.  This is the work of a more mature and focused director, Coppola had grown a  lot as a filmmaker since the first `Godfather' film. More ambitious,  focused, dark and just as powerful and enthralling. It lacks the nostalgia  from the first film, but then this is a much darker film with more ground  to cover. Pacino is truly mesmerizing as the now power-hungry Michael  Corleone, he created one of the most famous and compelling characters in  film history. His performance here is much more complex than in the first  one, Michael goes through one of the most astonishing psychological  transformations of any character in film history. In one of his definitive  roles, Pacino delivers one of the key performances of the 70's and  certainly the best in his career. Just a impressive is Robert DeNiro as  Vito Corleone as a young man, Coppola couldn't have said it better `I saw  DeNiro maybe not as Marlon Brando as a young man but Vito Corleone as a  young man'. DeNiro is best remembered for his roles in Scorsese's pictures  but his performance in this film is almost just as good and ranks among his  best. Virtuoso acting at it's best and even more impressive is that he  mastered the Italian language. Robert Duvall is also great as Tom Hagen,  even though he gets no big scenes. John Cazale's character Fredo Corleone,  who played a small part in the first one, was further developed in this  film. Cazale is as efficient a he can be as Fredo and the scene where  Michael tells Fredo he doesn't want to see him anymore is simply  spellbinding, among the best scenes ever filmed. Talia Shire's character  Connie was also further developed and has some great scenes, namely when he  asks Michael to forgive Fredo, a coldly calculated scene that features  bravura directing by Coppola and showcases his talents at their best. Diane  Keaton also gets a great scene where she tells Michael about the abortion,  another powerhouse scene. Lee Strasberg, who was also one of the most  celebrated acting teachers in the world, agreed to star as Hyman Roth, a  meticulously calculated performance but expect no less from one of the  great acting masters. Michael V. Gazzo is brilliant as Pentangeli, a  supporting performance that well deserves to be compared with DeNiro's or  Strasberg's. Filled with as many memorable supporting characters as in the  first one, I will name only a few: Senator Pat Geary (G.D. Spradlin),  Fanucci (Gastone Moschin), young Clemenza (Bruno Kirby), Johnny Ola  (Dominic Chianese), Al Neri (Richard Bright) are only a few. Th direction  by Coppola is truly masterful. What makes the `Godfather' films the  timeless classics that they are is that they have so many great scenes.  There's never a scene put of place, not a bum performance in the whole cast  and near flawless directing, acting and writing. And `The Godfather Part  II' has more that it's share of great scenes, so many memorable lines and  so many classic scenes it's hard to name them all. This time the score was  by Coppola's father Carmine Coppola. He took the nostalgic theme of Nino  Rota's original score and added a darker tone to it. The score is dazzling  and fits perfectly into this classic film. The screenplay is masterful in  itself. The script is an original screenplay but still it won the Oscar for  best `Adapted Screenplay', but then again the competition was heavy with  the Original Screenplays that year including Robert Towne's script for  `Chinatown', which is a milestone. And to top it all off, the movie ends  with one of the most deeply haunting endings ever filmed, with a close shot  of a grayed-hair Michael dealing with his ghosts. `The Godfather Part II',  along with the first `Godfather' ranks right on top among the best films  ever made. And this is a more complex and dark film, less nostalgic of  course but more professional and focused. A unique treat that should be  tasted by every filmgoer and cherished by all who love great movies.  Extras: Danny Aiello, who would later play the Don in Puzo's `The Last  Don', a much weaker film, appears in a small cameo. From a scale of 1-10 I  give this film a 10! Masterpiece