I'm a big fan of this series, and had been waiting excitedly to get my copy ever since I ordered it here. This was my first anime series, and one of my all-time favourites. So why only three stars? Well, there are a few reasons for that:

1. HORRIBLE subs: I'm not used to fansubs being waaaay better than the official ones, but this is definately the case. In only the first episode I already managed to spot a few mistakes - like writing "1000 yen" instead of 1000 customers, or designations. That's a pretty bad mistake, especially for people who don't know the script by heart from over-watching or something. My japanese doesn't exceed the new N4 level, and English isn't my first language, yet even I can spot all these mal-translations easily. Shame on you, funimation.

2. The complete lack of any Japanese extras: One of my favourite things about the series (and I'm sure many people will agree) is the outstanding Japanese voice acting cast. However, there are absolutely NO extras about the Japanese cast, production team, or even an interview with the Japanese director. I knew that's what I was getting from reading the description, still I can't hide my disappointment at the fact. Again, shame on you funimation.

3. Picture & sound quality(Japanese only, since I don't watch dubs): As someone who watched this series on the internet at first (in barely passable quality), the dvd makes the animation look spectacular. The picture quality is very good, and as the original series is an eye candy that's recognizeable even in low rez, the DVD is such a treat! Mind you, if you're into picture quality - go buy the blue-ray, which will probably be even awesomer.
The sound is very good as well. Nothing much to say about that.

4. Packaging: The overall design is very very nice. The packaging isn't that of a normal DVD, more like a DVD "Digipack" (the closest thing that came to my mind). When I first got it I just looked for hours at the packaging. Trust me, you won't be disappointed at that.

This was just my experience. Hope it helped!