Wrestlemania is supposed to be the premiere show of the WWE and it usually does deliver some of the most exciting and talked about matches of the year.  This year should have been one the top ten Wrestlemania's but unfortunately due to time constraints and bad booking the show was far from one of the greatest.  Shawn Michaels and Undertaker should have closed the show.  Most wrestling fans only bought the pay per view so they could see this match live.  Both men are from Texas and they are both legends and no other match was going to be able to top it.  Whoever made the decision to not have this match at the end of the show should take a huge pay cut or should be spanked with a paddle so they learn their lesson. Also, we were promised a tag team title unification match on the pay per view and it was moved to a dark match and it wasn't even seen live!  The diva battle royal should have been the dark match.  Tag team matches are some of the best matches around and if Vince Mcmahon would get his head out of his billionaire anus then maybe he would realize that. I could keep talking but I will go match by match and explain myself in better detail.

Dark Match--WWE and World Tag team title unification match
WWE Tag Team Champions Carlito and Primo Colon versus World Tag Team Champions The Miz and John Morrison

I have not seen this match so I can't rate on how good of a wrestling match it actually was although I have heard that even though it was short it was excellent.  The Miz and Morrison in my opinion are one of the best tag team's in wrestling right now.  The Colons are very good and it's good to see them using Carlito because he is a wonderful talent.  The Colons unfortunately are overlooked because they never had any competition on Smackdown.  I am still disappointed that they didn't develop a rivalry with the Major brothers (they won the titles from them) because they could have had some wonderful tag matches.  The Miz and Morrison are a pretty well established tag team which is unusual since Vince doesn't understand what tag team wrestling can be.  This match should have been on the card, but it is what it is.  I am curious on what they do with the whole 'unified' tag team title situation and who the Colons will defend against since Miz and Morrison are broken up because of the Draft.  Match rating--N/A

Winners and New Unified Tag team Champions--The Colons

Money in the Bank Ladder Match
CM Punk vs Kane vs Mark Henry vs Christian vs MVP vs Shelton Benjamin vs Finlay vs Kofi Kingston

I remember seeing the first Money in the Bank at Wrestlemania 21 and was amazed at the match itself.  I am still happy that this match has become a major part of the last few Wrestlemania's.  The match itself didn't disappoint.  It was a wonderful way to open the show as it always is because it always pumps the crowd up for the remainder of the night.  I these matches were longer than fifteen minutes but I understand why it is kept short because any longer and the match itself would become boring.  Kofi Kingston was the main star in this match as he did certain moves with the ladder that hasn't been seen in a Money in the Bank.  Everybody had their moments as the always do in Money in the Bank.  I still wish Christian had won the match.  I love CM Punk and if anybody had to win I'm glad it was him (even though the Texans were not very happy about it) but this could have been the start of Christian's push.  I hope other people noticed what I noticed.  I also hope that Vince noticed what I noticed when it came to Christian.  Christian got the loudest ovation in the match.  Most of the crowd was rooting for him and were disappointed when he didn't win.  It makes no sense to bring him back and not use him.  I know that the plans with him were leaked at the Royal Rumble and they had to be changed but if you give the briefcase to Christian he could have a huge run with Edge on Smackdown for the World Title.  Does anybody else agree that that would be a definite money maker?  Although I would like it if it was CM Punk versus Edge.  I have been waiting for that for a year.  Match rating--4/5

Winner of Money in the Bank for the second year in a row--CM Punk

Kid Rock then performs what seemed like 200 songs and it took forever.  The Texas could have cared less because, and this is shocking, they were there for WRESTLING, not a damn rock/country concert.  I felt bad for the Kid because he was doing his best but the crowd just didn't care.

25 diva battle royal to crown "Miss Wrestlemania"

This should have been the dark match.  I don't blame the women in this match.  I actually feel horrible for them because their Wrestlemania moment was taken away from them because of bad booking.  Even the special entrants didn't have the entrances they deserved.  Actually, none of the women got their entrances and the match started before anybody knew what was going on.  The stuff with Santino was hilarious, and I am a huge fan of his comedic talents, but I thought it was a slap in the face that a MAN won the DIVA battle royal.  It looks like Vince doesn't understand woman's wrestling either.  Match rating--1/5

Winner--"Santina Marella"

Handicap Elimination match
Chris Jericho versus Ricky Steamboat/Roddy Piper/Jimmy Snuka with Ric Flair

The build up to this match was very well done, and that was mostly because Chris Jericho is the best interview in the WWE today.  I really didn't give a turd about the match until it came down the Steamboat and Jericho.  They put on the most exciting few minutes of the night in my opinion.  I couldn't believe how good Steamboat still is, but that's why is a legend and now a Hall of Famer.  I hated Mickey Rourke punching out Jericho and that moment ruined almost the whole match for me, but seeing Steamboat in the ring one more time on the grandest stage of them all will stay with me for a long time and nothing will ruin that.  Match Rating--3/5

Winner--Chris Jericho

Extreme Rules Match
Jeff Hardy versus Matt Hardy

Now, I know that the original plans for this match was Christian vs Jeff Hardy.  I also know that those plans were leaked online, and I understood why they changed it to Jeff vs Matt.  Although Vince doesn't understand something.  Even though people knew at the Royal Rumble that Christian was going to cost Jeff the WWE title, it still would have been a shocking crowd pleaser.  Now Christian and Jeff could have had a good wrestling match, and it would have been more shocking for Matt to turn on Jeff at Wrestlemania and they could have had a great run together through Summerslam but it is what it is.  Matt and Jeff put on a good spotfest here but they should have been given a lot more time because this was a personal match.  The ending was well done, although it felt rushed.  Also the right guy won as he needed the win more.  I don't like the way this rivalry has been handled but at least two brothers got to have a match at Wrestlemania together.  I hope though that they make this rivalry what it's supposed to be but knowing Vince that won't happen and what should have been a historic match and series of matches will be forgotten in a few months.  Match rating--3/5

Winner--Matt Hardy

Intercontinental Title Match
I.C. Champion JBL versus Rey Mysterio

What a waste of a title match.  The Intercontinental title hasn't been defended at Wrestlemania since Lincoln was president and instead of getting at least an average match we get a quick and useless match.  Maybe this should have been the dark match.  JBL for weeks kept saying he was going to make history, and he kept that promise. For the record I am happy that Rey has won a big title like the I.C. title. JBL quits at the end and his home state cheers his departure.  JBL makes history and that's what this match now is....history.  Match rating--1/5

Winner and New I.C. Champion--Rey Mysterio

Legend versus Legend
Shawn Michaels versus Undertaker

The only reason why I wanted to see this ppv live was for this match.  Now nobody can act like they thought Undertaker's streak would be broken but we knew that we would get a half hour Wrestlemania classic and that is what we got.  There were a few slow spots because of a sick fall where Undertaker fell right on his head and when Shawn fell straight on his back.  Even with a few flaws the match delivered the way it was supposed and will probably win Shawn his one hundredth match of the year award (which he always deserves).  The crowd loved this match and so did I.  The last ten minutes were amazing.  This was the match of the night but that shouldn't surprise anybody.  Match rating--5/5

Winner--Undertaker

Triple threat Match for the World Heavyweight Championship
Champion Edge versus John Cena versus The Big Show

The build up to this match was horrible but it was entertaining.  I was actually looking forward to see John Cena and Edge go for the title on the biggest pay per view of the year but I guess they thought they audience had seen enough of that so they added the Big Show.  The match itself was surprisingly good even though it felt too rehearsed, and yes I know that they rehearse matches but classic matches don't look rehearsed at all.  For some reason there is now a triple threat match at almost every Wrestlemania now, but there is nothing wrong with that.  They are fun matches and this one is no exception.  I don't agree with Cena winning, I actually thought that the Big Show should have won, but I understand that they were trying to have the fallen champion get his belt back.  I actually like Cena, but just not as champion.  I liked him as champion at one point but I prefer him chasing the belt than him wearing it.  I also wish they would give Edge a longer title reign, he deserves one.  Match rating--3/5

Winner and new World Champion--John Cena

WWE Championship Match
Champion Triple H versus Randy Orton

This match deserved to be the main event, but once the match happened I no longer felt that way.  The build up to this match was amazing, and one of the best creative things that WWE has done in forever.  I would have loved this match more if Orton had won the title.  He should have won the title.  They built him up and built him up and he didn't win.  It was a wasted opportunity.  Wrestlemania should have been the real start of the Age of Orton.  He is the best in the WWE right now, and god forbid that they take the belt off Triple H.  Now I am a fan of Triple H but with him as champion the WWE is not going to get out of the funk that they have been in.  Also, why was there no interference from the Mcmahon family or Legacy?  This match should have been similar to the Main event of Wrestlemania X-7 between Stone Cold and The Rock.  The match was no disqualification and although it wasn't a wrestling masterpiece it was still one of the most exciting title matches in Wrestlemania history.  This one should have been as well, but it wasn't.  The crowd was completely dead and this did not feel like a Wrestlemania Main Event at all.  It should have if the match was done right.  This could have easily followed Undertaker/Shawn Michaels if there was a No Dq rule and interference.  This match was a huge disappointment and they will probably make it right in the coming months but I'm sick and tired of WWE always having to have the better matches at other pay per views when it should have happened at Wrestlemania.  Match rating--2/5

Winner and still WWE Champion--Triple H

This Wrestlemania was a lot better than last year's edition but not by a lot.  I am not trying to preach that I know more than the people who run the WWE but they need to start listening to the fans a lot more.  I feel at times that I could book better shows and I should never feel like that.  Luckily for them TNA is doing worse than they are otherwise I would switch to them and leave WWE behind.  I the whole WWE company would wake up and realize what they are doing wrong, but at the same time nobody what they do right, somebody out there will think it was wrong.  So I guess it's a no win situation.  I do suggest getting this pay per view because you will still enjoy it, but there are to many misses at this event, even with the tremendous hits that took place.