It would be unfair to oneself these days to go into a movie with high expectations. It's been proven time and time again that this day in cinema the suprise is, you usually love the movies you'd thought you'd hate and you usually hate the movies you'd thought you'd love. Maybe it's the high hopes of being a true film fan that sparks these mixed feelings. As a movie fan you await to be apart of something. Movies aren't just escapism, they are experiences. Ways in which one can learn, laugh, and cry completely vicariously through characters who we relate to, sympathize with, and at times pity.
Well, this film called The Sixth Sense was what Hollywood called a sleeper hit. No one expected that movie to do the box office damage it did. Not because it wasn't brilliant movie but because it was so crafty, emotionally drawn out, and paced much slower than your usual creep fest, many believed there was no audience. But M. Night Shyamalan has a gift for storytelling and definitely story crafting. He makes us hold onto these mysterious characters even if we have no idea where we're being taken too. That was the beauty of the Sixth Sense.
Now, here is Unbreakable. Too an extent, it attempts to capture that same beauty of the Sixth Sense with the mysteriousness of the characters. Who are these people? What is going on? You ask scene after scene. Unbreakable is a beautiful concept film. It has these strong ideas, nurtured into a screenplay. But that is where the problem lies. The script. Although I give Night credit for not doing the same old formulaic scenario, still it felt like three different movies and each major plot twist felt cheapening. So by the end, many people are thoroughly disappointed. That's all? That's it? In essence, yes. 
What is good about Unbreakable, is the fact of its uniqueness. It's ideas and concepts on balance in the universe, opposition, purpose, and the nature of what is good and evil. It made you think and question. 
Unbreakable is not a film for everyone. I do say it is for the crowd who enjoys movies that try new things and new ways of storytelling. It wasn't great, it was simply good. While the comic book over tones and thematic elements in the movie are interesting ways to approach the depth of this film, we still feel cheated at end but it's our fault, comic books---in all their brilliance and conceptualizing varations--always tell the same story.