What do you get when you cross three promising lead actors who don't mind being typecast with a script that is probably three revisions away from being finished? You get "Paul," a squishy science fiction comedy that takes an interesting ensemble of performers and does little with them beyond what is required by the genre.

The genre, in this case, is the "alien lost on Earth and just trying to get home" story, which has been played for dramatic effect in far more successful movies like "E.T." and "Star Man".  While this movie makes probably too many allusions to other science fiction movies (including "E.T.", "Star Wars", "Close Encounters" and on and on), it doesn't take many risks and instead merely goes through the motions.

Simon Pegg and Nick Frost play goofy Englishmen who find themselves in unusual situations (as we've seen them play in several other movies) and Seth Rogen plays a pot smoking slacker ... again ... although this time in the form of an alien.  Supporting actors Jason Bateman give a good turn as a hard-nosed Federal agent (think a younger Tommy Lee Jones from "The Fugitive") and Kristen Wigg, is, well, Kristen Wigg as the token female, first vulnerable and then empowered as she throws off the confines of evangelical Christian dogma.

Wiig's abandonment of religion and spirituality for a more scientific view of the universe is a theme that could've been developed further, and to perhaps greater artistic and emotional effect in this movie, but instead it serves only to liberate her character so that she can now "curse and fornicate" (her words).  Perhaps they could've explored how one makes difficult moral choices in a worldview without God, but then perhaps there couldn't have been as many dick and fart jokes.

There are other areas where the script clearly drops the ball (warning - minor spoilers to follow): for example, when Paul the alien transfers all of his knowledge and experience to Pegg and Frost's characters through a kind of hands-on-head mind-meld ... ummm, nothing results.  This amazing event doesn't seem to change their characters at all, and has no measurable impact on the rest of the movie.  Also, throughout the beginning of the movie, there are a number of references to an early meeting with the author Adam Shadowchild at Comic-Con (he's referenced later in the movie) but the question is ... umm, why is this important? At all? I expected him to make an appearance later in the movie, and unless I missed it, he completely disappears.  Again, what was all the interest about?

Part of me wonders whether, due to the large number of special effects required by the genre, the production of "Paul" was rushed so that these, and other, script problems couldn't be resolved. It's either that, or lead actor Simon Pegg is a REALLY bad judge of scripts.  It's too bad, because with two or three more re-writes, "Paul" could've been a movie that has it all: humor, wonder and a heart.