I watched the trailer for this movie and was mesmerized. I showed it to my best friend since middle school and we knew, that we simply had to watch this movie. However with its release date uncertain and the inability to find a leaked copy we vowed to only watch it together. The growing controversy over its material simply enticed us more. The day it was released on DVD my friend bought it, along with a case of beer and we sat in his living room and watched it. What followed was a deeply involving look at brotherhood and friendship. Now I never said it was the bright side of those subjects, it was haunting to say the least. I'll refrain from spoilers mostly but say that the best friends in this movie go to a house, once a year, to do drugs, and blow off steam. These men, each of whom, is suffering from a different depression in their lives. The character Ron is soon about to go to prison. Richard is a has been novelist and nothing school teacher. Tim is suffering from loneliness, having lost his bisexual partners. Jonathon, the character I definitely sympathized with most, who is the suppler of the group is divorced and separated from his child. The choices these characters make to deal with their unhappiness is shocking. The movie is not supposed to make you feel warm and tingly inside as a Rob Reiner film would have you. This is a difficult look into the lives of best friends and the frustrations over what time takes away from us. To watch it with a friend who could easily be as close as the characters in this movie was odd. As a punk rock kid and my friend, a long haired metal head, we had done many crazy stuff and made a great many decisions we each regretted in our lives. I remember originally being psyched by the amazing soundtrack to this movie cause its the stuff I listen to anyway. Yet hearing it in this context simply made me more uneasy than I may have been without it. Seeing characters do the things they did while dancing to music I listen placed me into these characters shoes. While the characters are often repellant, selfish and disarming; they are also real. The cinematography is alone a work of art. It captures and shows things I couldn't help to describe.  I am well aware many will hate this movie and not understand my view of this movie. However I have always see the odder things as beautiful. As the movie went off and the credits rolled I looked at my friend and said, "Id melt with you."