The biggest problem with 'Rush Hour 2' isn't how annoying Chris Tucker has become (and he has become annoying, degenerating from a loudmouth with a chip on his shoulder and something to prove that annoyed other characters to a loudmouth with a big ego that annoys the audience), or how few and far between Jackie Chan's fight sequences are (which, while breathtaking, seem almost obligatory), or even how implausible the whole premise is. All of these could have been easily fixed. Instead the underlying cancer in this film is how little effort seems to have been put into the film's creation. Perhaps everyone got a little cocky after the original made so much money, but you get the feeling watching 'Rush Hour 2' that everyone was just going through the motions. Writer Jeff Nathanson (the guy who penned the original) delivered barely half of a real script, his dialogue consisting of elaborate schemes to reverse many of the great lines from the original. And director Brett Ratner doesn't do the film any favors by jumping from one locale to the next, as if a $90 million budget is the only reason he needs to shoot at three different locations.
The story isn't important here, you'll probably recognize it as a cheap copy of so many comedy crime films (think 'Lethal Weapon'). Chris Tucker doesn't start acting (or pretending to act) until 75% of the film has passed, and Jackie Chan, believe it or not, looks bored most of the time. Their characters, who previously had histories and motivations and depth that we could identify with, are now nothing more than caricatures of their respective races, rather than real people.
This should have been an easy movie to make. All Ratner really had to do was everything he did in the first one, only in Hong Kong. He doesn't even try.
Ultimately, it can't decide what it wants to be, or where it wants to be, for that matter. It doesn't have enough fighting to be a kung-fu movie, it doesn't have enough comradery to be a buddy movie, and it isn't funny enough to be a comedy. But, it does have enough sloppy film making to be an absolute mess, changing tones more often than locales.
Bottom line: save your money. Rent 'Shanghai Noon'.