Rashomon (1950; directed by Akira Kurosawa and starring Toshiro Mifune) is one of those films that the truly hip have seen, and not many others; rather like certain books--On the Road, The Satanic Verses, One Hundred Years of Solitude, Naked Lunch--it has a certain hip cache, being one that cineastes have all seen and can discuss in great detail.  Name-droppers know they need only mention the name in a knowledgeable context to be viewed with awe.

In truth, however, Rashomon is the sort of film that everyone should see; it's a true classic, in a league with Casablanca, Citizen Kane and others.  The film examines truth, in the context of a rape and murder in 12th Century Japan, from four different perspectives; a woodcutter who witnessed the whole incident yet was afraid to report it, the bandit who committed the crime, the murdered man's ghost (through a medium) and the rape victim (the murdered man's wife).  There are a few elements which remain constant from each version of the story--that the murdered man was tied up and forced to watch the bandit ravish his wife, and that he did indeed die--but how he died varies.  It was either a swordfight with the bandit, at his wife's hand with a dagger, or suicide resulting from his being absolutely crushed by his wife choosing to leave with the bandit.  Did she demand his death?  Did he look at her with scorn after the crime?  Was she really raped or did she yield consensually to the bandit?  Honesty is also explored in detail, with the wife's honesty being most in question, but also with the three men sheltering from a rainstorm at the ruined gate of Rashomon who relate the story between themselves.

This was one of the late Toshiro Mifune's (1920-1997) first collaborations with Akira Kurosawa, and his criminally-insane Tajomaru is masterfully acted.  So effective is Mifune's acting that you truly loathe Tajomaru; you're torn between pity and disgust for the wife (Masahiko Kyo, also a brilliant actress), and there are truly few really sympathetic characters among the cast here.  The camera work is exemplary, shows what Kurosawa was best known for--unusual perspectives in some truly arresting shots, proving that his eye for detail was as sharp in black and white as it would later be in colour (cf. Dersu Uzala, Kagemusha, and Ran, 3 latter-day Kurosawa masterpieces).  Absolutely worth seeing, and proof of the saying that there are three sides to every story (to wit:  mine, yours, and what really happened)--but also proving that what really happened isn't even ever certain.