In coming up with a way to describe Tokyo Gore Police I'm tempted to go with my original idea and use the term "WET" as lets be honest any movie with gore in the title is either using that as a deflection or has as many gory bloodsoaked bits as can be crammed into a film. In the first opening minutes not only is someone shot in the head but the head in all its glory explodes outward from within sending shimmering piles of red goo hurling into space while several pieces of head are attached still at the neck. Really though the best way to describe Tokyo Gore Police other than to do a laundry list of mutilations is to say that it took me back years ago when I had discovered Japanese horror and would pull out something like Miike's Dead or Alive to show friends the final scene. This is something you want to show someone just to show that it even exists.
The plot as it is revolves around a privatized futuristic police force being set up to combat crime and more specifically engineers, mutants humans who when parts of their body are amputated grow some form of bio weapons in their place. Ruka, the police forces main combatant against engineers is searching for the cause of them which involves key like tumors that need to be severed in order to kill them. Describing anymore of the plot would ruin the film which is filled with a double crosses, conspiracies and in the end a full fledged coup. And trust me when I say that if You're someone who purchases this film because you have a love for this particular type of cinema the experience is something best had fresh.
As a film itself from the makers of The Machine Girl I will say that its more polished than that one and was better at maintaining my interest more. I'd chalk that one up to a better sense of humor this time with a strong bit of satire to the procedings- as well as at least some more profesional acting even though most of it is still pretty goofy. The better parts of the film for me were small asides that seem to be taken from Paul Verhoeven where We get small commercials for the police force or a new remote execution scheme where the family of a victim get to kill the doomed with something like a Wiimote. Everything looks slick and pretty even though there were probably budget constraints at times. The effects though are really good stuck mostly with physical effects. Most of the gore involves actions towards puppets with some CGI but its well done in the mood of the film. My personal favorite though was some kind of quad-amputee who comes into play at the end of the film with its leg and arms replaced with swords.
Its a pretty cool movie. I'm a bit disappointed in the dvd. The image and sound is perfect but all you get in the way of extra features is a couple of trailers. This is something I would have loved at least a twenty minute featurette but then again at a twelve dollar price I guess thats an easy miss on my part.
Anyway if you like movies like Dead or Alive or even Brain Dead check this one out. Its short sweet and something to put on and watch with like minded friends.