Dirty Gold
Summary
Gregory Peck plays a sheriff that stumbles upon a map to a lost city of gold. Omar Sharif is the bandit who forces Peck to lead him there, after Peck burns the map after committing it to memory. The hunt is on as more and more people are drawn into the quest. With Indians and danger at every turn, will Peck and Sharif find the treasure? Will they survive? Do we even care?
Mackenna's Gold (1969) was pushed out by Lee J. Thompson as a chance to do for the western what he did for war films with The Guns of Navarone (1961), make the ultimate super-western. He hired a huge cast of stars including Gregory Peck, Omar Sharif, Edward G. Robinson, and Eli Wallach. Columbia Pictures pored 14 million dollars into the production and the film was made.
Violence
Men are shot with arrows, killed with hatchets and shot with rifles and blood is visible many times. The film has a high body count even before the action packed finale. Peck and Sharif have a brutal fight on top of a cliff. A woman falls to her death (shot with a dummy, so the scene is very fake). Torture is implied at several points. We see a man who was blinded by Indian's eyes (fairly scary for little ones) and watch an arrow go through a horses neck (fairly realistic with plenty of blood). Keep in mind, however, that this is sixties blood and will probably not bother teens or adults.
Sexual Content
THERE IS NUDITY IN THIS MOVIE! After the group finds a water hole, an Indian girl and Omar Sharif go swimming naked. The woman is seen completely from behind and from the waist up from the front. Sharif is also highly visible during this scene.
Language
Scattered h-words and d-words that can be counted on one hand.

Viewed in a modern context, the film is fairly lack-luster. The plot is decent, but rather implausible and poorly developed. The special effects are occasionally good (as in the fight on the cliff between Peck and Sharif), but mostly poorly done, even for the time. The acting is good, but the characters are not well defined. Clint Eastwood wisely turned this film down, and maybe you should as well.