This screen play adaptation of Johnathan Swift's novel Gulliver's Travels was written by Joe Stillman and Nicholas Stoller and stars comedy legend Jack Black.  Black plays Lemuel Gulliver, a loser from the mail room with a debilitating crush on travel editor Darcy Silverman played by Amanda Peet.  When the new hire gets promoted to his boss in one day Black decides it's time to take a chance and ask Peet out, only when he gets there he loses his nerve and instead lies about wanting to be a travel writer applying to write for her section.  He plagiarizes his  writing samples and is sent off on an assignment to the Bermuda triangle before Peet figures it out.  Unfortunately while there his boat crashes and he winds up on an island of action figure size people with strange customs who go from treating him as a prisoner to making him their hero.  Not wanting the hero worship to end Black's character makes up a series of giant lies to make himself appear cooler to the residents of Liliput.  The lies backfire when Black's character is challenged by a robot larger than himself and Black is then forced to figure out if he will remain the man he is or become the man he wants to be.

The movie was alright.  I wouldn't call it great, but I wouldn't call it particularly bad either.  Most of the characters were incredibly silly and you couldn't help but get a laugh from them.  The worst part of this movie is that it likes to rely a lot on dumb comedy moves rather than intelligent comedy, for example Gulliver puts out a raging fire in the castle by urinating on it.  Also if you're the type of person, like I am, who gets embarrassed for the character in the movie you'll spend a lot of time covering your head wanting to die of embarrassment as this character continuously does stupid and embarrassing things.  There are quite a few humorous musical scenes and two adorable love stories within the movie that make it bearable to watch.  If you can make it through all the embarrassing moments and dumb comedy the ending is quite gratifying as well. Overall I wouldn't call this a movie you must see, but there are definitely worse ones out there if you're looking for something to watch.  It's the kind of thing you watch once and enjoy it but never plan to watch again.