After the success of 8 mile, it was obvious that hollywood would make a clone to cash in. The movie certainly looks very cheap, nothing spectacular, not even in the shootings.

The story is predictable 50 cents' mother is killed when he is young, he gets tough, kind of wanting to avenge his mom, becomes a gangster, then a better gangster because his mentor gangster is good at this gangster-job.

Predictably, 50 goes to jail, remembers his lost dream of being a rapper, though it was never clear that he wanted to be a rapper. of course he must fight his former crime buddies because no one can "retire" from crime, as we know from countless mafia movies.

In the movie as in real life, 50 cent IS a speech impaired rapper, he just mumbles through his songs. This is addressed in the movie, and for fans this brings value to the film, we see 50 struggling with his own lack of clarity.

There is a strange side-story in the movie that is not persued and does not add anything, which is sad, because it had real potential. In the movie, 50s mom is killed and until the end we don't know who did it, but it turns out that the two main suspects might also be 50s dad, and in the end it looks like his dad killed his mom, and there could have been some nice struggle in the possible dads over all this. In fact in connection with this side plot we have the movie's one ray of light: Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaie, who plays Majestic, the afformentioned good at gangsterism gangster. He is a superb actor, outclassing anything in the movie (including "Bana" played by the excellent actor from Hustle and Flow). If he was white he would be hailed as the next young Brando, he's that good. Sadly, trapped in this aweful movie he has to give terrible lines. His subtle struggle, not knowing if he is 50s dad, is drowned out, because one does not look for good acting a movie like this. I first noticed this actor in The Bourne Identity (the matt damon one), where he has a small role, but steals every scene he is in.

I found the ending the worst part, because as 50 finally makes it onto stage, the winner, the hero, stepping into the limelight, he falls totally flat. just a muscle bound guy with no expression, and oddly no pressence, inspite of his bulked up, schwarzenegger body. Perhaps this total lack of pressence is part of his appeal. Eric B. and rakim, where are you?

So if you love 50, you might get something out of this, otherwise stay away, if you are forced to watch it, keep an eye on majestic.