I will acknowledge that I'm a once avid baseball fan who has soured on the sport, in part because it's become of a case of the rich get richer (read that the Yankees and Mr. Steinbrenner) and in part because of "innovations.'' I loathe the designated hitter and while I've come to appreciate the wild card for its ability to keep teams in the race long after they should be out, I still think it's a perversion of the sport I grew up with.

But what really turned me off was the segment on baseball in NY between the 50s and 60s, which is when I grew up as a fan of the Dodgers. The segment, it turns out, is 75 percent Yankees without mentioning that they were just as Steinbrenneresque in those days as they are now. (How CAN anyone be a Yankee fan if it's a lost season when you make it to the World Series and lose?)

 So we get all about Mantle and Stengel and the Yankees (cleansing the part about Mantle's carousing shortening his career _ it's mentioned and brushed off). For all anyone can tell, the only players on the Dodgers and Giants were Robinson and Mays (Burns' description of the plight of black ballplayers is a strong part of the documentary, but that's overdoing it.) A little Snider and Campanella, no Hodges and Furillo and Don Newcombe, one of the best pitchers AND hitters of the era only in passing. A little Monte Irvin. No Don Mueller, Alvin Dark, Hank Thompson (hey, he forgot an African--American), Davey Williams.

There are factual errors _ Ralph Branca's career did NOT go downhill because of the stress caused by Thomson's homer. It went downhill because he had a sore arm that he hurt as a rookie. They didn't have Tommy John surgery or other medical advances in those days.

And omissions. As noted, Burns spends a lot of time on the plight of black players. He NEVER notes in this segment that the Yankees were one of the last teams to have one and the best _ Vic Power _ was shipped to what amounted to their farm team, the Athletics, because he wasn't the "right'' kind of black.

OK, I'm biased. I'm soured on baseball and my team the Mets, who grew from the ashes of the Dodgers and Giants, are horrible and mismanaged right now. (Another omission: nothing about the greed that drove O'Malley to California.) In fact, Burns has Stoneham taking the Giants there first when in truth, it was O'Malley who got Stoneham to agree that they would go together.

There's some good stuff here. Buck O'Neil is a wonderful character, certainly very positive for a man barred by his color from playing in the major leagues. But too many flaws. Too many mistakes.

Sorry, but only three stars.