First there was H.G. Wells' classic novel. Then there was the classic film of 1960 by George Pal. Since the 2002 version of "The Time Machine" is based on these two works (much more on Pal then on Herbert George), some comparision between them is unavoidable.

The first 20 minutes of the new "Time Machine" are its best. Ironically, this is the only portion of the film which isn't based on either Pal or H.G. Wells... Instead, it gives us a completely new and original background story for the time traveller: In this film, it is a personal tragedy which compells the hero to build a time machine and try to change the past.

After the time traveller (named "Alexander" in this film) fails to manipulate his personal past, he embarks on a journey into the future to search for the reason he failed. Once he touches that lever which sends the machine to the future, the film follows the same plot as the 1960 version of "The Time Machine". This point, about 25 minutes into the film, marks the end of "The Time Machine 2002 - a decent sci-fi film" and the beginning of "The Time Machine 2002 - the lame remake".

Why lame? Because the "remake" portion of the film is far worse then original 1960 version in almost every aspect. There are a few exceptions which are noted below:

1. The time machine itself. As much as the original 1960 machine was neat, it really can't compare with the incredible design work Dreamworks did for the 2002 version: The new time machine is an absolute beauty.

2. Orlando Jones as the Digital Librarian in the future, Vox. He provides both a comic relief and a couple of touching scenes near the end of the film.

3. The time travel sequences. The amazing computer graphics compensate here for the lack of personal touch (Although the original 1960 version does retain its own charm).

These good points take, perhaps, 10 minutes of the film. The love story and tragedy in the beginning takes another 20 minutes... 30 decent minutes out of a 96-minute movie. And the ending of the film sucks too (I won't give it away, but it DOES suck big time).

All-in-all, this film is a disappointment. It certainly is an entertaining way to spend 96 minutes, but that's all it is. Wells fans are still waiting for a decent modern version of Herbert George's time travel tale.