The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance is a resonating acheivement in film.  That, however, is not a new statement but I unlike others will ground it.

  This most complex work, of John Ford's, is a compilation of talents.  The quality, though, that holds it highly above the rest is its successful deconstructive nature.  The Western's various elements are herein taken apart, examined, and then honed to as realistic a nature as possible.  Then, they are put back together as they now are, except. . . except for one thing, now, they don't fit anymore.  Do they?  The righteous sigil of the law can't bring himself to end another's life (our films today ALWAYS justify the hero's killings with self defence, as if it was so simple as that).  The Deus Ex Machina of the film John Wayne feels more like the villain than the hero.  But, despite these sudden disparities with what we've seen on the screen before the film carries a successful and fluid narrative .  So by that, the film acheives the deconstruction genre in its fullest form.  Once the pieces are identified and shaped to perfect points they are amazingly, not just put back together but formed into a cohesive whole.  That final step is the cruelest and breaks the majority of would be genre studies.  It requires displacement of people, places, emotions, and actions.  The man that was one is now two.  The idea that was once impure and illogical is now entirely possible because it is now in the realm of the real human mind.  The film is so exraordinary because it succeeds where so many others fail.  To deconstruct a genre it is not merely enogh to have "The Antihero", darkness, or violence.  Deconstruction is a difficult progression of story that requires a great understanding of story elements and their conventional use.  It is a testament to this film that it is one of the few successes of its kind.

Now, the ephimeral.

  This review is for a dvd not just the movie.  The film gets five stars the dvd gets one (zero if I could) and those average to three.  Suffice it to say that the lack of features, the packaging, and the John Wayne Collection moniker at the top of the box are all insults to this film.  There are no notable features of any kind for a film which should be in a four-disk set to rival that of Gone with the Wind.  The packaging is your standard keepcase which, I suppose, is acceptable.  Lastly, I have no problem with John Wayne but putting that garrish moniker on this film would be simillar to printing "The Toshiro Mifune Collection" at the top of a Seven Samurai dvd.  No, as much as I'd do "anything for the man who shot Liberty Valance" I will continue to rent the old VHS copy my local video store has yet to ruin and replace with some trite trash like "The Dukes of Hazard" Unrated.  No thankyou, I'll wait for the film to be released in a five disk set, GwtW + 1.