I would first like to start off by saying, before going into the movie today, I thought it was gonna blow chunks...hard...and that's not a euphemism. All I heard about this flick is bad, bad, bad.but those are  professional critics, and I'm only 14. Director Walter Hill had disowned  his film, and hid (I guess) under the pseudonym Thomas Lee. I also heard  that this movie was in the can for a couple years (it was supposed to come  out near Event Horizon's release date in 1997? It's not clear if that's  true or not, though) until someone picked it up and finished editing it.  What else could go wrong? Well, I didn't find out until today (January 16),  when I had to drive 1 hour to see the movie. Will it be an hour I had to  regret? Let's see...
I want to start out with the good things...very good  visuals and sound. I watched it in a very new movie theater with Dolby  Digital EX and stadium seating.can't get any better. The space shots were  awesome. But that's not the entire movie, now is it? It had pretty decent  acting, something you don't find very often in these spacey sci-fi movies.  And then...um...well...there's not too much to add about the good things.  Now, don't think I'm gonna trash this movie. The movie was way too short to  develop a very good plot.about as long as The Blair Witch Project (I think  87 minutes not counting the credits?). It didn't focus too much on the  oncoming supernova, rather the bad guy. The alien artifact they found was  not completely explained...I was left wondering what the heck it was. Is it  because I had to go to the bathroom during the movie to flush $5 down the  toilet? Nah, it was way too confusing. A 9th dimension thingamabob inside  3rd dimension matter? Hmm. And, it was a little predictable, and that's not  very good. I like spoiling movies before I go seeing them, but if I hadn't,  it would still be predictable. Like aforementioned, it was too short to  incorporate any good twists. The camera work was like NYPD Blue on a bad  day! Too many light feedbacks, and it was really shaky. And there was a  little too much sex in the movie. It kind of revolved around that aspect,  especially the bad guy.
In the end, "Supernova" is not a  spectacular movie, but if you want a little fun, check it out if you're  into sci-fi flicks. Don't expect a mind-blower, though.