I really am not sure what to make of this one. Admittedly it was a bit of a "blind buy" of a film and director I knew next to nothing about. I'm not a classic or foreign film buff, yet over the years I've discovered a few personal favorites thanks to Criterion. I figured I would go completely random and give this Criterion release a chance. On paper it sounded like the type of humor that would be right up my alley.

This film, unfortunately, greatly missed the mark for me.

I knew it was an "avante-garde" French comedy based on the product descriptions. Sadly I did not know exactly what I was getting into. I was not prepared for a film with ZERO plot, no real character development, almost no meaningful dialogue for 2 hours. You are meant to process only what you SEE on screen at any point in time. Throughout the entire film the viewer is denied any particular narrative about what is going on or WHY. On the plus side, some of the scenes were visually interesting, and there was some mild humor. Not "ha-ha" funny, more akin to the understated visual humor in a Wes Anderson film. The type of humor that might not be obvious, that you have to be on the look-out for lest you completely miss it. In some cases you might have to watch a 2nd or 3rd time to notice it in the scene. I'm sure there is a good bit that I didn't catch on first viewing, however I'm also quite sure I picked up on plenty of the intended comedy as well. It just wasn't particularly funny most of the time. The visual interest and silly humor just wasn't enough to sustain the length of the feature. For the majority of the 2+ hours I watched this, I have to say my overwhelming feeling was BOREDOM. At best there were moments where I might have thought to myself "oh... that's clever", the rest of the time I was probably contemplating why I purchased this and how much I could trade it in for. Playtime seems like it would have worked better as a series of short skits. As one comprehensive 2 hour feature film, it was just too much... nothing.

I will still give this release 3 stars for the occasional visually clever imagery, and the quality of the Blu-Ray transfer for a 1960's film is more than solid (god help anyone that watched this on DVD or VHS). However the film itself is only worth 2 stars.