I didn't get to see this movie until it came out on Blu-Ray, so by that point I had heard almost nothing but rave reviews and was really looking forward to it. And it was okay, moderately suspenseful, but overall left me wondering, "That's it? Did I miss something?"

It's hard to pinpoint any major flaw with the film, but several small factors contributed to my disappointment. First of all, it wasn't quite the blood bath I was expecting it to be. Not that a horror movie needs to be gory to be enjoyable, but when it is, it gives the feeling that things are actually happening. In this, most of the scares are caused by loud noises that make you jump, cartoonish-looking CPG shadows, or other "false alarms." I can totally appreciate the film-making technique of building suspense and not being overly graphic, but usually it's building towards something bigger, and a lot of this just seemed like "scare for scare's sake." Not to mention the brief appearance of a talking goat which just looks like a Muppet on crack. In fact the whole s&eacute;ance scene was laughable. The sad part is I think it was meant that way.

On the plus side, I liked the general storyline. It wasn't the most original I've seen, but I've always had an interest in curses and demon possessions and whatnot so I kept an open mind. The acting was decent and I liked the twist ending, which I admit I didn't see coming, plus despite the lack of blood and guts there were some truly gross-out moments. And of course every scene with the old gypsy woman was amusing. All my gripes listed above are probably just due to my personal taste and maybe shouldn't be taken out on the film itself, but I do think it would have benefitted from eliminating some of the comedic undertones and played it strictly horror/drama. The Exorcist this ain't. But, in the end, it did entertain me and I even watched it more than once. I guess that after being hyped up so much I couldn't help but be a little more critical than I normally would be of a movie like this.