I've been a fan of Ken Watanabe for long time. And, my grand-grand-grand father was a samurai lord of a tiny land in the northern Japan. So I was looking forward to see the movie and was dissapointed very much.

First, amateurish battle scenes.

When I heard Katsumoto's model was Takamori Saigo, I expected 60,000 samurai swarming along the mountain ridge or several  castles filled with cannons and guns, and a series of cunning battle tactics in Sun Tzu style - that was what happened in Saigo's last battle. Very suitable to a Hollywood spectacular.

If Katsumoto was a commoner who imagined himself being a samurai like a Don Quixote, or a poor samurai without education in very far rural village, the story would be acceptable. But a trusted advisor of the emperor? No joke.

Second, failures of exploiting full beauty in samurai culture.

Usually, Ken Watanabe uses kimono very wisely to play a noble samurai role with a very elegant and dangerous atmosphere. In the TV series "Zankuro", Ken's role was an executioner and looked like a butterfly in fire. But in this movie, he couldn't show his talent because of very unnatural costume. He had to be in a 13th-century-style armor always (how foolish and tactless to fight in this muggy land). If the costume had been more realistic, the character of Katsumoto would be more complicated, sophisticated and attractive.

In addition, the most profound scene was nearly ignored. It was the fan dance by Hiroyuki Sanada before the last battle. This traditional dance is an essence of Bushido. They performed it only when the death was unevitable in the coming battle, to express their unshakable faith. I don't understand why the scene ended in a blink.

Finally, I'd like to add the plus side. The sets of old Yokohama city was excellent. Even Japanese movie staff cannot create them so accurately and beautifully.

In this movie, Hollywood proved they had capability to create a historical epic set in Japan.  I hope they wouldn't underestimate our history and culture any longer, and would show us a more breathtaking spectacular in the next movie.

Well, I believe they can.