First off this film only gets 3 stars because the original twilight zone series in black and white is unbeatable and those episodes were the true classics. This 1983 now overlooked movie is a respectable good film but that has its moments you basically have 4 different stories and here is how they go First the film opens a little eary with Dan Aykroyd and Albert Brooks singing and bored out of there minds singing"Let the midnight special" there tape breaks in the car and there stuck talking to each other bored the two dare each other play t.v theme songs and all kinds of stuff then he Dan Aykroyd becomes a monster out of nowhere and chokes his friend. That was just the opening then the first segment begins it is really tragic Vic Morrow and two kids were killed by a helicopter and the original script if he would have lived he was supposed to come back to the bar he was bashing every minority prior to leaving and come back after his violent ordeal with the German's looking at him as a Jew and the K.K.K looking at him as a black man and the American G.I's looking at him as Vietmanese after that was done he was supposed to come back thanking everyone in the bar and saying he was sorry and that would have been the story and instead they released it and it has a tragic ending with him going to a concentration camp. That scene looks like a deleted extra scene they used and that segment just ends horribly and they should have never released it and started fresh with a new kind of plot. The 2nd segment originally was supposed to be a remake of the monsters on Maple Street but because Vic Morrow was killed in the 1st segment the writers and Steven Spielberg decided to do this fairy tale type episode called Kick the Can it is a little touching probably especially for old people some viewers knock this segment saying that it is lame and boring. This is a good segment and ends happy and really had a nice point. The 3rd segment actually turned out the way it supposed to have it is basically a remake of the Anthony story from the original series. This remake with Anthony this segment probably has more suspense then the one from the early 60's. It is funny in it's own little way but eary to and that ends nice but still probably could have been better. The last segment is the stongest John Lithgow is amazing in this role as you typical terrorized airplane passenger not only does he hate flying but he sees the ugliest monster I have ever seen in my life out his airplane window and he freaks everybody out the attractive flight attendant's try calming him but nothing works he even gets wrestled to the floor by other passengers this segment is my favorite and people who know this movie will probably tell you this segment probably saved the whole movie it has the suspense and fear you felt in the original twilight zone's. As for the other 3 segments they are very watchable but you can see things did not go as planned and this movie as good as it is probably did not turn out the way they had planned.