A good documentary should involve you even if you've never heard of the person whom it's centred on. And in this case the person I've never heard of is Rodney Bingenheimer, a long-time DJ on LA's rock station, KROQ. Once you get over the fact that someone named Rodney was able to get their own radio programme, this proves to be a somewhat interesting meander through the celebrity-studded life of Mr. Bingenheimer.

From his humble beginnings when he was pretty much left by his parents to fend for himself in LA's hipster Mecca, the Sunset Strip, through his hob-nobbing with stars and groupies, to his pretty mundane present in a bed-sit with occasional excursions to IHOP (the International House of Pancakes) and his radio show (now scheduled at midnight), he is a singularly odd figure. His success appears to stem more from his looks (think Syd Barret crossed with Davy Jones) and little-boy-lost persona, than his innate talent for picking winning bands although to be fair to him, he's managed to fend off obsolescence for nigh on forty years. Basically, once a group got successful in Britain, he got sent advance copies and was thus able to break them in the all-important American market. How much of a talent you need to predict the chances of stateside success for the likes of The Kinks, Bowie, The Smiths and Coldplay is debatable.

It's easy to feel sorry for the bloke, sitting next to the woman who he's just explained is his soulmate, listening to her say they're just friends and she actually has a boyfriend, then seeing him distributing his mum's ashes in the next scene. But he's had quite a life on pretty scant talents. And although he lives in a crappy little bed-sit, he could probably move into something better if he Ebayed a couple of items of memorabilia he's been given over the years... Elvis' Driving license, Bowies earliest demos... Ka-ching.

If you know who this bloke is, maybe it'll be better for you. I found the film patchy and often wondered why they were documenting this guy's life and not, for instance, the borderline psychotic Texan who writes songs about Jennifer Love Hewitt ("She's so nice...") and wanders around town in a space-suit. Not a bad soundtrack though, it seems that quite a few people owe him favours. Watch Oliver Stone's The Doors for a more interesting glimpse into the 60s LA scene.