If you like violence, then Pathfinder more than delivers.  But if you like substance look elsewhere.  That is the best way to sum up this film.  The biggest fault I found in it was that they more or less took a glass is half full approach.
The story had a great deal of potential.  The Viking exploration of North America is a topic that has never really been touched by Hollywood.  And with the recent love affair that has existed with historical epics (see Troy, Alexander, 300, and the television series Rome) a look at Viking and Native American history sounded quite refreshing.  And in some ways, this film certainly captured the imagery of the times right.  The Native Americans presented here are primitive, but prosperous.  The Vikings are presented as blood thirsty killing machines, and indeed, I imagine that to the Native Americans of the time, the Vikings appeared as just that.

The story is that of an abandoned viking child, left behind by an uncaring father.  He is adopted by a Native American tribe, and among them finds near acceptance and happiness.  But when the Vikings return, his bloody roots begin to take prominence as he fights in defense of his adopted people.
The action scenes in this film more than deliver.  The sword swinging antics are gleefully violent, and the odds stacked against our hero are perfectly overwhelming, making his victory all the sweeter.  And in fact, they paid surprising attention to a few oft ignored historical tidbits; the vikings did, in fact, have superior weaponry than the Native Americans, but in North America they faced totally alien weather and terrain.
However, that is where this movie lost steam.  The characters are all types, with little, if any, development in their personalities and motives.  The story itself is sadly two dimensional, for how promising the concept was.  Our hero is intended to appear as an underdog facing overwhelming odds, but his intelligence and prowess make him seem almost superhuman, so in the end his victory over the bad guys seems far less astounding.
In the end, Pathfinder left me a bit wanting for more.  So many elements were right, but yet so many were absent as well.  Almost a great movie.