Watched the DVD after seeing the trailer (which spun the film as a light-hearted comedic love story with dogs) but the film is anything but light or comedic. Poor Peggy. She cannot get a break. Life has dumped upon her time after time, but in many ways she alone is totally responsible for these dumpings.

1. Her dog Pencil is killed by eating something toxic one morning. Peggy blames her neighbor, saying that if her neighbor's garage door hadn't been left open then Pencil would not have gone into the garage, eaten toxins, and died. Peggy, if you are concerned about your dog, keep an eye on your dog. As a dog owner I can tell you that a dog does not know not to eat poisons and other things that will cause illness or death. It's up to us to keep our critters safe. I also found it unrealistic that Peggy would just box up all of Pencils sweaters, toys, and photos. Sweaters and toys, yes, but photos? Is this how we remember our loved ones? By packing away even our photo memories? "Well, now that grandma's dead, I guess we'll be putting her photos in a box."

2. Peggy becomes consumed with animal activism. Yes, it's easy to let this happen, but responsible adults do not go the extremes that Peggy goes to. At one point she rescues 15 dogs on their way to the gas chamber. But what happens? She is unable to care for these critters, and one day the city takes them away from her. She makes a hasty phone call and threatens legal action, but the plot point dies. We have no idea if these critters lived or died. They were mere puppets for Peggy to play God with, and it turns out she's not a very benevolent God.

3. Peggy cannot get a man to be interested in her. She should by now (she's in her 40s here) realize that dating is really difficult, and she is by no means a very interesting character. Well, perhaps she is, but we're really never shown much more than snippets of her life.

4. Peggy becomes an ultra-extreme vegan and begins to forge checks and send them to animal activist organizations. She attacks a neighbor at knifepoint because he is a hunter and she wants to show this man what it's like to know fear. Yawn. She tries to convert her young niece by taking her to a chicken slaughterhouse (though in the end she even chickens out of this cause). She goes about many, many tasks but does each one in the wrong way and for the wrong reason. What she should have done was seen a grief counselor and gotten some serious therapy, and then eventually (maybe) gotten another pet to honor the memory of Pencil. Instead, she gets no counseling, quickly gets another dog (a troubled German shepard that later attacks and kills a cripple dog and is then destroyed).

5. None of the cast members are remotely likeable. Even Laura Dern's character is just unwatchable, and it's difficult watching Laura outdo everyone else's performance. Each character has quirks but none of the quirks are interesting. Peggy's boss is unfunny and looks constipated. Everyone is a stereotype of some sort (eg, the girlfriend who can't get her guy to commit, the workaholic boss who is unsympathetic to Peggy's budding animal activism, the family members who think she's just weird for going vegan).

I kept waiting for something GOOD to come out of this film, for Peggy's character to hit an all-time low and then bounce back (because that's what's SUPPOSED to happen in a good screenplay), but in the end Peggy completely loses touch with reality. She quits her job and joins up with other activists. There's nothing wrong with activism, but this film portrays it as an all-or-nothing venture. I freakin' love critters. I'm active with animal rights groups, I have 3 pets (2 cats and a dog) and often babysit as many as 8 pets (including dogs, cats, and chickens), I don't eat animals, I catch and release spiders and other insects that find their way into the house (thus sparing them from the whims of the cats), I've rescued strays, and I either confront or report people to the SPCA if I see them abusing an animal. And I still have a life and work a full-time job and a part-time job. Why couldn't Peggy be actively involved in animal rights causes on the weekends or weeknights? Why couldn't she volunteer at a shelter? Why couldn't she go back to school and become a veternarian? Why couldn't she teach classes to educate others about animal spading and neutering to help reduce the number of animals killed in shelters? Instead we get a tacky, unrealistic climax in which Peggy (after being fired from work and subsequently rehired) returns to her office job for a few hours then decides to quit and become a full-time activist...except now she has no income to pay for her expensive vegan diet. And she also has no pet. And if Peggy is so damn concerned about animals, then why didn't she join other causes, such as environmental groups? Animals have to breathe the air too.

This movie was a total dog. It even made SPIDER-MAN 3 look good by comparison. In sum, YEAR OF THE DOG is truly one of the dogs of the year.