I hate all kinds of movies that deal with the business world. I really have had no respect for the business world since the creation of the "Yuppie". I feel that once the "Yuppie" was created that pretty much destroyed part of our work ethic. What I mean is the loyal part of the workplace. I see people float around from one workplace to another after a short time. I feel that when the "Yuppie" was created that the days of the long-term relationships with employer and employee were severed, and therefore no chance of making friends with those we work with, and work became less-appealling. I feel that's what happened in this movie as I would see people getting jerked around not knowing whether they will have a job tomorrow, or not, and bowing to a corporate raider like he/she's God. Having to sell out all your values for cold hard cash, and flaunt it in front of everybody. Well this movie did that, but it also showed a person can change when he/she wants to. With the supporting character of Carter he plays opposite Dennis Quaid as Quaid's boss, and he climbed up the corporate ladder rather fast as he's only 26. He would get married, and then divorced in short order, and then he rebounds with Quaid's oldest daughter, and then loses her. Quaid in the meantime has done the job shuffle all throughout the movie. I see this as the workplace out of balance where those who are at the top make out all right, and those in the middle like Quaid and Carter take a risk of getting fired, or laid off. I see this as a movie that makes me not want to go to work, but do like Carter does at the end of the movie, and that's jogging on the beach; not sure whether he has a job, or not, but at least he's happy. I look back, and see that the conception of the "Yuppie" was done in 1981 when Reagan fired all the air traffic controllers at Eastern Airlines when they went on strike. This destroyed the union as a whole as it became easier for corporations to thrwart strikes, and keeping unions in check, and keeping workers uncertain about thier futures. I just hate the plots like this, but this was done rather well with the performances of Quaid, Scarrlett Johannsen as Quaid's eldest daughter, and Carter. I probably wouldn't watch this one again just because of the plot.