When I first heard that Wes Craven and Kevin Williamson were teaming up again, I was thrilled.  Then I heard it was going to be on a werewolf movie and I was even more thrilled.  With Christina Ricci as the lead character, I was beyond words with excitement.  When I saw the movie trailer and learned it was going to be PG-13, I was floored.  The creative team behind Scream 1 and 2 involved in a PG-13 horror movie? PLEASE NO!  I decided to wait until the unrated version of the movie came out on DVD instead of perpetuating the idea that there should be more watered-down horror movies.

What I saw wasn't bad, but more of a let-down.  The tension that was created in the first two Screams was gone, as was the clever dialogue.  It's a standard horror movie that probably would have done better at the box office if Wes Craven and Kevin Williamson's names weren't attached.  With their genuises put together, you're expecting a great movie that "Cursed" doesn't deliver.  It's not that the idea of the movie isn't great, but you can tell there was some major tinkering by the studio on how it could be more viewer-friendly to appeal to a mass audience.  The actors do the best they can with the material, though more should have been done with Portia di Rossi's psychic character and more fleshing out of Joshua Jackson's boyfriend character to give a greater emotional impact to the conclusion of the movie.

In the first two Scream movies, the funny parts helped throw off the audience as to keep them off-guard when the creepy parts jumped in.  With "Cursed," the mixing isn't there.  Granted I did jump with the beginning introduction of Shannon Elizabeth's character being attacked and her gruesome final scene.  After that, it didn't really keep up the intensity.  Plus the inconsistencies in the plot knocked it off course.  One of the other characters in the movie doesn't know her friend just died even though it's been flashed all over the television?  Why do some characters turn into werewolves on a full moon but others who were infected don't?

It is more disappointing that there was a possibility of a great movie in "Cursed."  As far as what I saw in the unrated version, there weren't too many gory scenes that deemed to be trimmed to fit a PG-13 audience.  Off the top of my head, the beginning death scene and the final death scene were the only parts of the movie that felt R-rated.  There weren't any sex scenes.  There weren't any Scream-like torture scenes that resulted in death.  It just seemed that the studio wanted a "Sixth Sense" or "The Ring" size box office and felt the only way to achieve that type of monetary gain was to make it PG-13.  Wes Craven's resume should speak for itself and the next movie he makes should be left up to his creative control.  If you're looking for a movie that will scare you, but not linger in your mind for too long, try out the unrated version of "Cursed."  If you're a fan of horror movies, just check out one of Wes Craven's previous efforts.