First let me get this out of the way - the menus are not very interactive, so just prepare to check out the old shows.

Season 1 introduced the concept - every episode represented an hour of real time for 24 hours. This was when Jack's daughter was kidnapped by a terrorist who had it in for him and, of course, America. The ultimate plan is to assasinate the first real black Presidential candidate, Palmer. Right off the bat, it is hard to trust his wife, Sherry.

What ended up happening was a taut, gorgeously written crime drama mixed in with a splash of whodunnit. Jack proves himself to be the consumate leader who will do anything for his county and family. We meet his second in command at the Counter Terrorist Unit of Los Angeles, Nina. She is a breath of fresh air and just as mentally competent as Jack, if not physically. A perfect right hand. Then there's Tony, Nina's present love interest. He doesn't like Jack because of a past relationship between him and Nina and he's a real jerk. Something about him made me like him though. Then there's the ultra-hot teenaged daughter Kim who just happened to be wearing this low cut vest for the whole show and Jack's wife Teri. Teri is kind, smart and selfless.

The end of the series is a kicker with a fantastic shootout and one of the best twists i've ever seen in a television show.

Season 2 was supposed to take place 3 years after the first season. Jack has quit his job and is a wreck of a man, estranged from his daughter and life in general. Kim is a babysitter, having dropped out of high school thanks to the tragedy from season 1. With Nina gone, Tony runs CTU and his right hand is the gorgeous Michelle Dressler, a well-meaning operative with the hots for Tony. This time, there is a nutcase in Los Angeles with a nuke and it's up to CTU to stop it from happening. And of course, they pick Jack back up to help. President Palmer stands by with his own personal problems, including treachery within his cabinet.

This was the most ridiculous season as Kim was still part of the cast, but unlike last year, there was nothing to do with her! Last season, she was integral to the plot. This time her whole existence is about the writers trying to find things to do with her, even at one point having her get chased by a bobcat for no real reason whatsoever. This season more than hurt the show.

Season 3 - this was a step up, the writers figuring that the only way to make Kim work was to have her take an entry level job at CTU and fall in love with an operative there, Chase, a great character who is tough as nails. Jack is the resident field leader, having come back to the company, and Tony is in charge at the base. He and Michelle have married by now. Jack is a heroine addict due to a long mission where he had to play a specific part to complete believabililty. Since the tragedy of Season 1, he has no faith in human life anymore and taking lives is easy for him. He even has very little care for himself and it's tough to stay good at his job under these circumstances.

Great season, but season one was still the best! Have fun with it and try to understand why this is the most innovative television show in years.