When we see the mature Jeff Bridges in the year 2010-11 picking up his Best Actor Oscar, we see one mighty fine looking guy who makes all other males his age feel like running to the gym to look as fabulous as he.

When we see this younger Jeff in "Against All Odds", we're so stunned by his ravishing good looks, sizzling sex appeal and charisma that we have to sit up and watch the screen for every scene that he's in. Because when he's not on screen displaying his phenomenal sexuality, the picture goes flat. This movie also proves that you don't have to be X-rated to raise the temperatures of your viewers. And after we've seen it, we realize that there was nothing graphic shown--except for just a split second of love-making, deep in shadows and filmed in long shot where you only see sihoulettes.

No other movie male star has looked so amazingly hot and beautiful on screen as this stunning young Adonis who was captured at the very peak of his beauty.  His blue yes, his stunning torso, sun streaked locks and physical movements are all lovingly preserved forever on the screen by director Taylor Hackford. The director does something quite interesting here: insttead of having the rather anemic femme star, Rachel Ward (does anybody remember her?)as the sex interest, he turns Bridges into the red-hot lust object. And no wonder. In scene after scene, Ward is desperate to rip Jeff's shirt off, and later all of his clothes. In one extraordinary scene, they've just made love. Both are nearly naked. Ward rests her head on Jeff's chest and caresses it hungrily as he tells her about his failure as a football star. The camera moves into a close-up of Jeff's face and if possible, he conveys both sadness and carnal desire at the same time. Their passion is so sweaty and hot I would love to have been a fly on the wall to see what really happened between takes.

When he's not on the screen, the movie suffers. Curiously, the credits showcase Rachel Ward as the top star, with Bridges second. When the movie came out, it was Jeff who astounded the critics and his fans with his performance.  This goes to show that if you have true star magic--and the right scripts and Lady Luck hellping you out--you can go on and on over the decades like Jeff Bridges has done and grow greater every year.