Showing Millionaire Tyrants The Universe Doesn't Revolve Around Them!
Money can't always buy happiness is the very true moral of this big budget Hollywood production. The storyline of the Hudsucker Proxy is built around highly successful CEO, Waring Hudsucker taking his own life even though his company, Hudsucker Industries is at its peak. This is where the carefully planed Coen brother plot kicks into full swing. In accordance with company policy the 65% of the company in which Hudsucker owned must be floated to the open market. The board of directors shudders at the very sound that more than half the company will be owned by any Tom, Dick or Harry anywhere in the world. At the current rate per stock, no member of the board can afford to purchase more than 1% of the company, so Sidney Mussenberger develops a devilishly clever scheme to create a panic sell off. Thus devaluing the stock to the price of an average bag of peanuts.  
Norville Barnes, played by Tim Robbins, is a slow-witted Muncie boy who soon finds himself in the midst of Sidney's plan. With no prior experience or any decent qualifications he lands in the mailroom where a complete mockery of bureaucy takes place. Tim Robbins maximises the character in his dynamic style to present us with a dim-witted, fast talking and good-natured character. There are lots of little twists and turns, which keep you coming back for more!
Being a Coen brother's production from scripting to production, you can expect the highest quality film production, not a paper-thin Hollywood potato. Many techniques have been used in this film that have never been seen in other film production which will make the technology acquired in this film the basis for other movies. As with many films of this sort, it's not the story that makes it a good film, its how the story is told. Backed by over 50years of Film experience from Warner Brother studios, I guarantee that you will be stunned by the sheer scale of the movie.
Hilarious parody of big business, this film is one for the whole family! 
Written By Kelvin Liew 2001