"Live and Let Die", released in 1973, is the eighth entry in the James Bond series produced by Cubby Broccoli and Harry Saltzman. It is also the debut of Roger Moore as the British secret agent, a role he would play  of total of seven times, more that any other actor. 
Sean Connery was  originally slated to reprise his starring role but no amount of money could  tempt him to sign on. The producers turned to an actor they had originally  wanted to play Bond back in 1962, Roger Moore. At that time, Moore had to  turn down the role because he was committed to play Simon Templar in the  successful television series "The Saint". But by time "Live  and Let Die" was ready to go into production, Moore was available to  take on the role. Guy Hamilton did return to direct his third Bond film and  "Live and Let Die" does have a feel similar to "Diamonds are  Forever". Bernard Lee and Lois Maxwell reprised their roles as  "M" and Miss Moneypenny but Desmond Llewelyn is notable for his  absence, the only time "Q" has not appeared in a Bond film. Also  missing, this time permanently, is the evil organization SPECTRE and its  leader Blofeld. Except for one uncredited cameo, Blofeld never again  appears in a Bond film.
In this outing, James Bond is investigating a  series of murders targeting British intelligence. The one common thread  appears to be the prime minister of the island nation of San Monique,  Doctor Kananga, who is currently residing at his consulate in New York  City. The CIA already has a team led by Bond's opposite number Felix Leiter  keeping tabs on Kananga. Bond follows Kananga to Harlem where he meets  another ruthless character named "Mr Big", the boss of bosses in  the black underworld. Bond also meets a mysterious young woman named  Solitaire who seems to be able to predict the future by using tarot cards.  Somehow, these two men are connected to each other and Bond must go to San  Monique where he must penetrate a world of voodoo and discover the secret  which has killed all others who tried.
"Live and Let Die" was  shot on location in New York City, Jamaica and around New Orleans. It was  the first Bond film (and the last) where African-American actors played  many of the prominent roles. Yaphet Kotto plays Doctor Kananga with the  sauve, menacing manner usually associated with Bond (some have called  Kananga, rather than the assasin Scaramanga the anti-Bond). Solitaire is  played by Jane Seymour, who portrays her in a detached, wistful manner.  Bond participates in his first interracial love scene with the lovely CIA  agent Rosie Carver(played by Gloria Hendry). Kananga's henchman TeeHee is  well played by Julius W. Harris and Clifton James provides the comedy  relief by playing Sheriff J. W. Pepper up as the reddest redneck one could  ever hope to meet. Finally, Felix Leiter is played by his fifth different  actor, David Hedison, who would later become the only actor to play the CIA  agent twice.
Despite all the promising elements, "Live and Let  Die" comes off as a pale shadow of Bond films past. Unlike his  excellent portrayal of the Saint, whose character was similar to that of  Bond, Roger Moore comes off as very stiff and formal, earning him the  nickname as the "wooden Bond". However, the dry wit that is  characteristic of the Moore Bond is much in evidence in this film. The  female characters seemed to have regress from the strong minded women in  the earlier Bonds. Even CIA agent Rosie Carver is played as hopelessly  inept. Another problem is the growing tendency to play James Bond up for  laughs, continuing a trend started in "Diamonds Are Forever".  James Bond and his world are becoming a caricature of its sixties self.  That kind of formula works better with Bond facing a major foe rather than  a small time one. It is ironic that the story of "Live and Let  Die" might have worked might have worked better if it had been made in  the 1960's. In 1973, James Bond almost seems wasted here since the  moviegoing public expects him to save the world or at least some of part of  it.
If the sum is less than satifactory, "Live and Let Die"  certainly has some good parts. The action scenes are first rate,  particularly the boat chase and the plane chase. The fight scene on the  train between Bond and TeeHee is reminiscent of the one from "From  Russia With Love". Geoffrey Holder's portrayal of Baron Samedi is  downright eerie, it is a shame that this fasinating character could not  have had a more prominent role in the script. Perhaps the best element of  all was the lack of references to earlier Bond adventures in order to  establish Roger Moore as the new Bond. Moore is Bond, period.
Despite it  all, "Live and Let Die" did well enough at the box office to  permanently associate Roger Moore with Bond. Moore would in time make some  of the best Bond movies of all time. 
The special edition DVD contains  the best print and sound track of "Live and Let Die" this  reviewer has seen. The movie is shown in the widescreen format although it  was not shot with the very wide Panavision camera like many earlier Bond  films. Typical of the special editions, there are two audio commentary  tracks and the documentary material as well as trailers, advertisements,  and still photos. If one was just starting out their Bond collection, one  might start with "The Spy Who Loved Me", "For Your Eyes  Only" or "Octopussy" to see Roger Moore at his best. However  if one has to have a copy of "Live and Let Die", the special  edition DVD is the one to have.