For some reason no one can seem to make a really good King Arthur movie including this one, but in some ways it comes close to it. Some of the problems I had were as follows... Some of the acting is just bad, there's way too much over acting and yelling like Arthurs dad who just seems to shout out every line. Another thing is that they try to add in all the elements of the legend into the film which just ruins it. They go from one thing to another in a hurry because there's so much to cover, like the love triangle and the holy grail, that the viewer might become confused. Like at the end because if you already aren't familiar with the legend then you don't know who took Arthur's body and where they're taking it. Not only that there isn't much room for character growth.  I also felt that they didn't need to throw in the nudity that they showed but there wasn't that much.

This movie is supposed to take place in the Dark Ages but their outfits make it look like it takes place in the late Middle Ages. Allthe knights wear full body armour which wasn't invented until centuries later but since this is a King Arthur movie it doesn't really bother me. The only time it becomes bothersome is the fact that they wear the armour all the time like at the wedding and when they're feasting which is funny because nobody would be feasting in a 100 pound suit of armour. Also the dresses that the woman wear also seem out of the time period.

Some things I liked was the scenery because it added to the feel of the movie. At times they show beautiful green fields and forests when everything is all happy and at other times they show the land all dead and foggy during troubled times. The music is good althogh it's played a little too loud at times. I also liked some of the battle scenes where the knight are clumsily running around trying to kill each other.

  Extra feature wise there isn'nt much except a commentary and a film trailer. During the trailer they showed some clips that weren't in the movie but for some reason they don't have any deleted scenes, oh well.

Anyways this is a decent film and for the price you can't go wrong, just don't expect a masterpiece even though this does seem to be one of the better King Arthur movies out there.