Okay let's get this outta the way right now, remaking The Texas Chainsaw Massacre is a no win situation and like Gus Van Zants' 1998 remake of Psycho is completely unnecessary.  So it should come as no surprise that debut feature film director Marcus Nispel has bitten off way more than he or anyone else for that matter could ever chew.

It's been proven time and time again that newcomers to Hollywood, be they directors, producers, actors or even musical composers can and do find success within the horror / exploitation genre.  However remaking an American icon such as TCM can only be akin to shooting oneself in the foot.

From what I understand this newly revamped `Chainsaw is supposed to appeal to younger moviegoers as well as the older skeptical ones.  It doesn't and it won't.  In truth, if the cynics would let their guards down a bit they may actually find some enjoyment in this thing. Unfortunately Nispel's film doesn't even approach the charm or wit of Tobe Hooper's original and it's clearly obvious that over time some of the film's novel subtexts that helped to elevate it from mere drive-in drekk to classic American horror cinema have been dejectedly lost.  Like; where's the idea that Leatherface was a cross dresser, or how `bout the cannibalism angle or even the notion that the crazy clan are roadside vigilantes?  And the most depressing part of the film is that there is no dinner sequence.  Nope, no poking fun at the heroine as she's tied to a dining room chair and no decrepit old Grandpa feebly attempting to hammer the girl's brains out and so on.  Now I ask you, isn't that like the remake of Psycho not having a shower sequence?

It's not all bad and to Nispel's credit he did resist the urge to transform `Chainsaw into a slick MTV video looking thing (i.e. The Matrix, The Crow, Underworld etc.) therefore the younger audience that he is attempting to capture will be yawning before the opening credits end.  The cast are competent, the atmosphere is suitably creepy and the script is full of that uproariously amusing black humor that has become synonymous with the `Chainsaw franchise.  And oooooweee that quirky performance by R. Lee Ermey is nothing shy of brilliant. His on screen presence threatens to upstage everyone and everything involved, including Leatherface AND Jessica Biel's cleavage.  Nispel's remake retains the same pace as Hooper's did and with very few exceptions follows the story fairly closely.  This approach I assume was not only out of reverence for the film as it is apparent that the director appreciates the original but also out of fear.  Where the general horror fan may be forgiving of the incongruities a student of `Chainsaw most assuredly will not.

I find myself in a strange predicament as I cannot recommend this film nor can I implore you steer clear of it.  It certainly has its strong points but sadly its weaker points are made all the more conspicuous due to the previous, better incarnations of this famous story.

By: C. Curry