Honestly, The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, and Prince Caspian have interesting and compelling story arch in the books.  The Voyage of the Dawn Treader is not an easy book.  Unfortunately when the screenwriters were taking a stab at it... there was too much that CS Lewis put in the book that was iconic and important to the story that they had to make mention to in the movie or the movie wouldn't make sense. Of the whole Chronicle of Narnia series, The Magicians Nephew, Voyage of the Dawn Treader, and The Last Battle are all the most "magical" of the books which means most people won't get them.  So I tip my hat to the movie company for trying.  But they didn't quite get it.  From my arm chair, here are a few suggestions I would have encouraged them to do to make the story more palatable.  First, Eustace's character didn't quite convey the snobbiness or brattiness of that character and how completely out of touch that character was with the realities around him in the book.  So I would have dropped all of the emotional stuff that they tried to do with Edmond's character and made him the straight man to Eustace's emotional story arc.  Also Lucy should have taken more of a supporting role and the story should have focused on Eustace.  Eustace is the main character in Silver Chair, the next book, so this movie should have been more or less a backstory on Eustace, setting him up for Silver Chair.

Next, they should have started the movie explaining to the viewer all about the Lost Isles, the banished Lords, and the "evil" that was taking people.  I mean literally start this movie in Narnia.  Caspian then becomes more of the narrator, explaining to the viewer what has transpired since the last movie and then cut to England and Edmond and Lucy at their cousin's.  Spend a bit more time showing us why Eustace is such a snobby brat, and make Edmond more honorable and respectable.  Honestly, Lucy and Edmond both lived full lives as King and Queen of Narnia in the first movie/book so in essence they are adults in children's bodies.  For goodness sake, the narrative tells us they took spouses in the middle book "A Horse and His Boy" (which btw would make an excellent movie, but nobody makes it cause it doesn't focus on the Pevensie kids or the magical stuff in Narnia... but it is still a good story), so they have had sex and lost their childhood innocence long ago.  They remember all of Narnia and fought in battles and killed people.  So embrace that a bit and make Edmond and Lucy (and Peter and Susan) unique people in Mother Earth in that they have aged experience and wisdom in young bodies.

And drop the White Witch.  They keep bringing her back and I understand CS Lewis also brings her back in one form or another in the books, but really it is just distracting to this story in the movie.  Evil is the enemy, not the White Witch.  She is defeated.  End of story.

Post note: I do realize that they are making these movies in publication order, but CS Lewis laid out the chronological order of the books and it is "Magician's Nephew, LWW, A Horse and his Boy, Caspian, Voyage, Silver Chair, The Last Battle.  I just think chronological order to the movies makes more sense to the story arc of the real main character, which is Narnia, not the Pevensies.