Season Review-

I don't know what to say! Of all the seasons of Smallville, I missed the majority of Season 5 during its original airing.  I couldn't wait to watch the episodes I missed as I heard Season 5 was one of the best seasons from many fans.  Buying Season 5 on DVD was pretty much the reason why I bought the first 7 seasons on DVD since it's much more enjoyable watching the series as a whole, seeing show grow with each season.  After I finished watching Season 5, I was shock at how put off I was by this season, as I times, I found it unbearable and watchable.  The season opens up strong with the powerful premiere, "Arrival" with Clark building the Fortress of Solitude.  That sequence and the scene of Clark walking into the Fortress where his father welcomes him is a pivotal moment in the history of the series. Not to mention, a black ship landed on Earth to which 2 rebel Kryptonians arrived and begin to wreck havoc on Smallville looking for Clark. The next 2 episodes are also excellent. "Mortal" is a great look at how Clark is mor heroic without his powers once again and "Hidden" is one of the most suspenseful episodes of the series yet.  But from there, the season loses all momentum and derails in storylines and developments that are on the verge of being abysmal.  Clark and Lana make a second attempt at having a relationship, while it starts off pleasant enough; you realize that the Clana relationship is more melodramatic angst, less star crossed lovers like originally thought.  At one point, you just get sick of Lana demanding the truth from Clark and Clark whining about losing Lana.  It doesn't make for gripping drama; it makes for an annoying bad soap opera.  To makes matters worse, the end of the season saw the beginning of the Lexana relationship, which is hilarious.  At the beginning of the season, Lana almost hated Lex then suddenly after breaking up with Clark, she runs to Lex for comfort...I'm sorry...what! The beginning of their relationship is poorly written and forced with Michael and Kristin seeming obviously awkward during those scenes. The majority of episodes are some of the worst of the series: "Aqua" is a sub-par adaption of DC comics' Aquaman, "Thrist" is right up there with "Spell" as the nominees for worst episode of the series, "Exposed" is a lackluster mystery centered around a dead stripper, "Tomb" is a bland ghost story despite Allison Mack's stunning performance, "Hypnotic" is almost unwatchable, "Void" and "Mercy" are more blatant movie rip-offs, "Fragile" is a mediocre directorial debut for Tom Welling and "Fade" even sees the writers reusing old meteor freak plots.

But to be fair, Season 5 has its great moments, no matter how few they were.  James Masters of "Buffy" fame makes his debut on the series as Milton Fine, one of Clark's college professors.  There is more to Fine than Clark realizes as he is none other than another one of his greatest archenemies, Brainiac.  Masters just oozes menace and evil, portraying the character with class. The Brainiac storyline was one of Smallville's most exciting yet but like Season 4, the writers treated the storyline poorly by either forgetting the storyline for a majority of the season or simply leaving it as a small sub-plot for several episodes.  It's another bad move by the writers as they waste another perfectly good storyline. Anyway, Allison Mack gets a hell of a lot more to do as Chloe when Clark finds out that she knows the truth about him. Becoming the future Superman's official new sidekick was exciting as Chloe continued to develop nicely and the interaction between both characters has never been fresher. The friendship between Clark and Lex seems to be over for the most part, I liked seeing the new dynamic between both men. It may not be hate yet, but they obviously don't trust each other as the lies between them go bigger.  Now without Clark's friendship, Lex grows cruel, power hungry, even closer to the evil tyrant he will become.  The Senate race storyline was an excellent way of showing Lex's darker side as he runs for Senator for Kansas against Jonathan Kent.  "Lexmas" is not just a fun holiday episode, but a surreal journey for Lex provided by his mother's spirit by showing her son a possible better life of her son.  Jonathan Kent grows as well when he struggles to win the race for Kansas' state senator.  It's the perfect storyline for Jonathan and sadly his last.  In the series 100th episode, "Reckoning" is probably the saddest episode of series when a shocking event that impacts the characters leaves Clark messing with the fabric of time but his father's death being the final outcome.  It's a heartbreaking farewell for John Schneider whose Jonathan Kent was the strongest portrayal of the character yet. Other great episodes are the double Brainiac arc episodes, "Splinter" and "Solitude", Victor Stone aka Cyborg of the Teen Titans drops by in "Cyborg", "Vengeance" features the saddest scene in Smallville history, and despite the plot holes left from underwriting the Brainiac arc, "Oracle" and the apocalyptic finale, "Vessel" end the season quite well.  The arrival of Zod development in Brianiac's plan was exciting as well as the moment Zod arrives in Lex's body as his vessel.  With Zod free, the whole world in chaos with a kryptonian virus unleashed and Clark slowly floating away into the Phantom Zone, the season left a lot to look forward to as Smallville season finales tend to do.

After starting with so much promise, Season 5 quickly becomes what I think to be Smallville's worst season to date.  While there are some memorable moments and episodes, not to mention Tom Welling showcases some of his best acting work with "Splinter", "Reckoning" and "Vengeance". Still, the majority of the individual episode just brought this season down. Certain characters were misused (Lois Lane surprisingly!), some relationships made no sense (Lexana once again) and the series as a whole continued to forget what the series was all about.  It's kinda funny how Alfred Gough and Miles Millar declared in the Season 5 overview that this season was "Superman in Training" when there was very little training involved! There was so much potential, but there's very little outcome here.

Season Rating: 3.5/10

Video and Audio Review-

Probably the best the series ever looked; it's not just the stunning widescreen that makes all 22 Season 5 episodes look better, but it's the spectacular special effects which seemed to have peaked this season.  The sounded has never been better.

Video and Audio Rating: 9/10

Extras-
The commentaries continue to be some of the most hilarious part of the extras. There's commentary on "Thrist" where the writers have fun bashing themselves on how this dreaded episode could have come to be. Another commentary for "Splinter" is straight forward. Smallville's 100th Episode: The Making of a Milestone is a great documentary showing the whole cast and crew working on the 100th episode. The Vengeance Chronicles are mini-episodes that see Chloe getting deeper into the life of the masked vigilante, the Angel of Vengeance.  They are entertaining but filler extras. The deleted scenes are a mixed bag as usual.

Extras Rating: 8/10

Overall Score: 6.5/10