If you're out looking for a movie to watch for the sake of finding something "weird", DO NOT get this movie. This is not a movie for people who get kicks searching out crazy intense surreal movies. This movie can't be taken at face "shock" value. The use of imagery, allegory and metaphors is staggering. Someone unprepared could be so shocked as to cast it into the realm of trashy "art-house" crap, which I don't believe it is (though it is artistic, as I belive all movies should be). It takes a certain kind of person to appreciate a movie like this, and I'm not saying that to be pretentious as I belive all types of films have their niche (audience). So when I say this movie is not for everyone. I mean it. If you're not prepared to see sexually twisted gratuitous religious symbolism paralelling humanity linking the mystism of tribal cultures to modern society, than this movie is not for you.

Though that being said this movie will certainly evoke a reaction.

First off, this movie is a satire to such a degree that it's almost impossible to see as a movie. In other words, where most satires can be interpreted literally, such as, A Clockwork Orange, South Park, Johnathan Swift's A Modern Proposal, ect. ect. This movie can not. So if you're apt to enjoy more literal movies and think of things in literal ways, or if you enjoy debating semantics, this movie is NOT going to be for you. All warnings aside, maybe I should explain what I think the movie is about.

Spoiler Alert: . . . just kidding, even if I were to describe scene by scene this movie, it wouldn't do you any good.

Brief Synopsis:

First off there is a guy who is kind of like Jesus, but not any Jesus you know. He is like our own personal metaphysical Jesus. The Jesus that lives inside all of us. He tries to discover the meaning of life, by seeking out a (spirit guide, shaman, alchemist, preist . . . insert whatever role you see here), and then he meets with a team of other people who represent simultaneously, the planets, feminism, masculinism, corporitism, spiritulaism, fascism and any other -ism that you can think of. He then makes a spiritual journey with these "people" (or chakra's or psychological constructs of id, ego, superego, anima, animus, shadow, or horoscopes or all of the above ect.) to conquer the holy mountian. And when you think Holy Mountain, think that symbol of the pyramid with the trancendent eye at the top. Think wise man on top of a mountain. Think Maslow's heirarchy of needs. Think actually mountains. Think Mt. Everest. Think all of that at the exact same time. So as You/Jesus/Everyone/All the Animals in the world/The Universe, climb and reach the peak of the Holy Mountain you discover, nothing . . . everything . . . mindfreak. Credits. Congratualation you have just been raped.

So if you're the type of person who enjoys the abstract with discussions of religion, philosophy, psychology, anthropology, symbolism, absurd humor, black comedies, surreal art, psychedelics, corporate satires, and commercialized parodies of Jesus with plenty of nudity and not always supermodel sexuality. If you can see the horrible and grotesque as humorus and downright insightful about the human condition than you may enjoy this movie. If there is one peice of that puzzle that you don't really care much about, than I would reccomend you steer clear of this movie.

I like this movie, but I know not everyone will. This is not a movie I would loan out on a whim. If a friend of mine saw it on my shelf and asked to borrow it, I would have to consider their tastes and levels of egocentrism, their ablity to think in abstracts, their sense of humor, their religious beliefs, their appreciation for philosophy and their mood and motivation for wanting to watch it. Where as, loaning out a movie for me is typically a nonchalant "Sure, here you go", in the case of this movie, I couldn't do it. I haven't seen a single movie that I could say that about. Other weird movies I might take some things into consideration before loaning them out, but this movie I would have to take the most into consideration. I could more easily loan a fetish porn film to my Grandmother than I could loan The Holy Mountain to a close friend who's favorite movies are romantic comedies and 70s horror.

I hope this helps.