I was a fan of the James Bond films as a child and my interest in these films has recently returned to me.  I don't believe "The Man With The Golden Gun" is the worst Bond film because this negative honor goes to either "Moonraker" or "A View To A Kill."  I do feel, however, that it qualifies as the third worst one.
"The Man With The Golden Gun" has a lot of weaknesses.  I don't know why Roger Moore was allowed to make seven Bond Films.  Although Moore wasn't as weak as George Lazenby, he still comes across as being bland and mannequin-like.  Timothy Dalton was a much more effective James Bond.  If Dalton had been given better scripts and more time, he would have been nearly as effective as Sean Connery.  Britt Ekland's Mary Goodnight rivals Tiffany ("Diamonds Are Forever") Case as the most ineffectual and irritating Bond woman.  Maude Adams is more effective as Andrea Anders, the villain's long-suffering mistress, but this character is given too little screen time.  A pre-"Fantasy Island" Herve Villechaize makes an awkward henchman.  The return of Clifton James' J.W. Pepper character was also unnecessary.  
The weaknesses of this movie also extend beyond the cast.  An awesome car stunt is weakened by a poor sound effect.  Tacky humor is woven throughout the entire film.  The martial arts motif in part of the film also seemed out of place.
Christopher Lee is the saving grace of this film.  If Lee weren't in this movie, I would have ranked it with "Moonraker" and "A View To A Kill."  He is excellent as the egotistical and cruel Francisco Scaramanga.  I am only sorry that the screenwriters didn't further develop this interesting character.  Lee is one of the screen's greatest bad guys and  can effectively play just about any villainous character.  He is a much better actor and greater presence than Roger Moore.  Lee's villain is more interesting than Moore's hero.
"The Man With The Golden Gun" is only for big Christopher Lee fans and those who feel that they need to see every James Bond film.  A disappointment.