One star only here. Would be zero stars if not for Samuel Jackson's usual
quality performance and a brief, classy turn by Ron Glass in a small
role. Much like "American History X", this film attempts to show
Americans who hold traditional, conservative values to be some kind of
psychotic monsters in disguise. Jackson's character here is a career cop
from South Central who now lives and works in the suburbs where he is
trying to make a better life for his two children since the untimely death
of his wife. A loving but strict disciplinarian who constantly corrects his
teenage daughter when she reverts to Ebonics in her daily conversation,
he is more of a Bill Cosby/Dr. Huxtable figure than any sort of amoral
"Training Day" Denzel. His 'tough love' treatment of a shotgun-wielding
perp amply demonstrates his values system: Tough, fair, and family-centric.

The sleazy, self-absorbed mixed couple who move in next door are almost
a right-wing caricature of what's wrong with liberals in general and
insufferable Berkeley types in particular. The Patrick Wilson (that
creepy pedophile from "Hard Candy") character is a poster boy for that
particularly annoying breed of white-guilt liberalism that immerses
itself in African-American culture to somehow "prove" a lack of racism.
Despite the hip-hop music, greenie cars, global warming platitudes, and
African-American wife, he is a selfish, spineless jerk who makes for a
whiny, inconsiderate, littering neighbor. The dishonest and morally
bankrupt behavior of this couple render them pretty much unlikeable on
any level, even as Jackson's character inexplicably seems to lose his
own moral compass (Why? Ask the screenwriters...it's just not that obvious
or even believable).

The ending, where Jackson behaves in a criminal and almost comically
unprofessional and clumsy manner (especially for a supposed 28-year
LAPD veteran) is really beyond the pale. We as viewers are grabbed by
the scruff of the neck and told to cheer for the morally corrupt liberal
couple who are being "victimized" by a straw man that bears no resemblance
to the character that Jackson played during the first 2/3 of the film.
This turnaround reminded me a little of Edward Norton's character in
"American History X" who, as a supposedly violent fascist skinhead,
talked like a center-right common-sense conservative at the dinner
table. I suppose that the message in these films is that if one is out
of step with the current politically-correct orthodoxy (even if your
beliefs are held in defense of morally-grounded family values), then
you are a dangerous, evil force who must be destroyed. You don't believe
me? Just ask Juan Williams...