I just finished watching "In the Company of Men" on the Independent Film Channel.  It is an unforgettable film.  I recommend it highly to anyone who wants to understand the dark side of human nature.  In some ways I am  speechless because the movie is moving on such a visceral level.  The main  male characters are so repellent as human beings, that it is  psychologically difficult to bring myself to admit that I enjoyed the  movie.  Yet, my reaction to the film and that of many other viewers is  testament to its power as a social commentary.  Writer-Director LaBute  allows the movie to play to its unjust end without obvious commentary or  justification.  This disturbing technique makes the comedy all the more  black, and, for me, was the ultimate commentary any director can  give.
The movie centres on a ploy by Chad (played by Aaron Eckhart), who  begins the movie telling his sidekick Howard (Matt Malloy) how much he  hates women.  Subsequently, he coaxes Howard into a devilish plan in which  they both are to lead on an innocent woman and viciously dump her.  Chad  explains this to Howard as just desserts for the way women have treated  men. Chad thinks their six-week work off site trip to a satellite office  will be the perfect vehicle to carry through the plan and have a little fun  at someone else's expense. I believe Howard goes along with the plan, in  part because he realizes it will never happen, and, in part, because he  wants to agree with Chad as a way of fawning on him.  However, the plan  does indeed take fruition in the form of Christine, a deaf woman at the  satellite office (played by Stacy Edwards). The rest of the movie Chad and  Howard court Christine separately as their plan spirals out of their  control with unexpected consequences.
The "courtship" of Christine is so  duplicitous one can hardly watch. For Chad, the game represents a potential  conquest over Howard as well as Christine.  Howard shows obvious distaste  for the ploy, but for him it is a chance to be on the inside looking out,  instead of on the outside looking in. One wonders how this situation will  be righted such that justice and fairness prevail.  They do not prevail and  any realistic viewer senses this from the very beginning.  However, we  cannot help but watch, all the while hoping and praying that Chad and  Howard are not as twisted and cynical as they profess to be.  For me, it  was like watching a time-delayed sporting event already having heard the  outcome, yet watching anyway hoping it was all a mistake.  And this is part  of the comedy of the film.  It is the blackest of comedy as in a horror  film where we laugh at death and do not know why.  I saw Chad and Howard  toying with this beautiful woman, knowing what his design was.  And I  laughed.  I wasn't sure whether I was sickened by the spectacle and laughed  as a reflex or truly found their games funny.
I cannot say enough about  the depth of this film.  On so many levels it causes one to think in terms  of our pre-conditioning, our heroes, and basic human interaction.  First,  it does not have an expected happy end.  The movie is a black comedy in the  mode of "Swimming with Sharks" or "The Player" because the bad guy wins in  a way. Quite frankly, in real life, this is often the case. Second, you  cannot help but notice Chad is a good-looking, charming individual.  Sure,  he talks behind people's back and is utterly ruthless and contemptuous. You  know he is evil. Nevertheless, you understand his allure. I believe this is  where the comedic effect comes in.  In watching films and reading novels,  one is trained to look for a heroic character with which to identify.  This  makes the inevitable happy end all the more satisfying, when that person  emerges victorious.  Chad is that character. Yet, by the end of the movie,  you realize he is so repugnant and unredeeming, that you feel sickened for  having ever identified with him at all.  The laugh is on you. Third, the  Chad- Christine- Howard triangle was another interesting element to the  movie.  Chad is your classic tall, good-looking, socially adept predator.  Howard is his socially inept sidekick.  True to real life, the dynamics of  the love triangle have Howard getting the short end of the stick, as  Christine prefers the smooth predator to the inept wallflower.  Matt Malloy  does an excellent job making it difficult to identify with Howard.  At  first, as the shy and downtrodden character, one is ready to switch  allegiance to him.  However, in the crucial scenes at the end, he proves  himself vindictive as he lashes out when stepped on.
In the end, everyone  is left shattered by this silly game.  The irony is that both men do fall  desperately in love with the beautiful Christine, the supposed wallflower  here (Howard is the true Wallflower), despite her handicap.  Neither can  admit it their love. And the game runs its course.  Chad is too numb to  acknowledge his feelings as his desire (to prop up his ego and) win a  victory at all costs takes precedence. Howard is too shocked at having lost  in this game where he was finally supposed to have control.  He lashes out  in his maliciousness and vindictiveness when the truth becomes known.  An  excellent portrayal and a splendid performance from all three major  characters.