Originally shot as a personal memento by the band, "U2 Go Home" was pushed into release by the group's ardent European fans, who lobbied and clamored for its release after portions of the concert were broadcast on worldwide television as "U2's Beautiful Day." While it is a valuable addition to any U2-philes collection, the simple fact is that the video, audio and overall performance is not up to the bands usual professional standards. Casual observers who take a chance on this DVD will probably be left wondering what all the fuss is about.
Still, "U2 Go Home" does have its charms. The venue, Slane Castle outside Dublin, is as picturesque and romantic a setting as one could ask for a major rock concert, and with the death of lead singer Bono's father just a few weeks prior, there is a strong emotional bent to the whole evening. But this performance and DVD must be compared to the November, 2001 release of "Elevation 2001 - U2 Live From Boston," which was meant to be the definitive chronicle of the groups hugely successful 2001 Elevation tour.
In almost every respect, "U2 Go Home" falls short of that prior release. This was the last concert of the second leg of the tour, and in listening to the audio and watching the performance, it's clear the group needed the month-long break that would come after this show. Bono tries hard, but the intensity and performance just are not equal to the task at hand. He's noticeably less active than usual, and the whole group seems hindered by a case of road weariness. Bono forgets the words to some of the songs, and his voice is weaker than on the Boston DVD. While he's not bad, it is hard to come away from this show with an appreciation of him as one of the world's great singers, which he is.
The song list is very similar to the Boston DVD. In almost every case, the better versions of some of the group's classics like "Elevation," "Beautiful Day," "Desire," and "With or Without You" come from the Boston DVD. There are a few notable exceptions, like "Sunday Bloody Sunday," which is one of the few moments where the band's fire and intensity really picks up. There are also some nice moments in some of the songs that are different from the Boston set list. "One" is particularly good, as is "Out of Control," the group's first single from the "Boy" album. 
The visuals suffer from a clear lack of preparation, probably due to the fact that this is basically a revved-up home movie. The lighting, camera placement, and editing lack the flow and energy of the Boston set, even though it is directed by Hamish Hamilton, who also did the Boston DVD. The audio is good, but a notch below the Boston DVD as well.
All in all, U2 Go Home amounts to little more than a snapshot of the band on an average night. Still, as a fan, I appreciate getting some different songs from the earlier Boston DVD. However, fans might have been better served if this was treated as an "Authorized bootleg" sold through the band's website. I'd much rather have had the earlier video releases of the Zoo TV tour and "Popmart Live from Mexico City" get the full DVD treatment.
In the end, I can recommend this DVD to fans of the group, but anyone wanting to give U2 a try for the first time should pick up the Boston DVD instead.