In the aftermath of the second world war, paranonia became one of the major features of American culture. There were conspiracies everywhere. While the politics of paranoia are usually associated with anti-communism, it did exist in many other forms at the time. The Stranger is one example of that paranoia.

Rather than seeing communists under every bed and in every closet, there were some like Orson Wells who saw fascists. What is most remarkable is how similar the mindset and the logic is. There is always the unseen enemy within. There is always the idea of innocent american values being corrupted. There is always the idea of the foreign threat to the all-american ideal. And the idea of the secret conspiracy that aims to overthrow civilization itself. The ultimate observation being that the paranoid mindset was pervasive across American culture of that era.

The film is basically a old fashioned melodrama with archtype characters. We have the ideal New England town full of ideal Americans. But in its midst is an evil foreign looking european clock tower. The symbolism isn't exactly subtile. Nothing in the film is very subtile.

Our villian here is a teacher (corrupting the virtuous American young) who is marrying the pure innocent daughter (corrupting the virtues of our innocent American women) whose father is the local judge (the corruption reaches into the law and the upper class).

A group of nazi-hunters tracks a low-level nazi hoping they will lead them to a upper-level nazi. The upper-level nazi turns out to be our villian living in New England. We then get to the real melodrama. Welles chews the scenery and twirls his non-existent mustache. He tries so hard to be evil that he ends up going way over the top. The low point has him poisoning a dog to cover his tracks.

The film has logic problems all over the place. Welles is supposed to have been a high-ranking nazi. But yet we are told that even after having found him, there is simply no way to identify him or do anything about him. This justifies a further roll down the paranoia path. Rather than just arresting the exposed nazi criminal (which the film claims is impossible), the people around him have to be "turned". Its a very HUAC/McCarthy kind of logic that has little to do with the pursuit of nazi war criminals.

The anti-communist hunters had similar problems. They could track down suspected communists. But only through the confessions of others before the committee could they positively identify them publically as communists. The logic of the film anticipates the logic of the House Unamerican Activities committee a few years later.

The film also unfortunately moves into Welles' other preoccupation of that time seen sometimes in his newspaper columns. That the occupation regime in Germany in the immediate postwar period was nowhere near harsh enough. That Germans as a whole had some basic drive toward world conquest and that fascism had some ethnic component to it leading all germans inevitably toward a revival of nazism. In seeing fascism in these terms, he significantly undermines the anti-fascist message of his works and specifically undermines "the stranger". Seeing fascism as an ethnic disease rather than a political idea seems very naive and very foolish today.

The film moves on to a sort of conclusion. WASP womanhood turns against nazism and saves the day only after discovering that the nazi plans to kill her as well. We get a good action sequence in the clock tower to wrap things up. But the path taken to get there is rather contrived and silly.

It would have been a better film if it had stuck to a no-nonsense story of tracking down a war criminal. The whole theme of corruption, the conspiracy and the hidden enemy within doesn't add anything good. It would have also been better if (for example) Loretta Young had turned against him because he was a war criminal rather than because he was going to kill her.

In terms of the other aspects of the film, it was another step down from Welles' previous work. The music is a step down. The camera work is a step down. Judged by the standards of the average second rate studio melodramas of the era, its a good film. As a work that aspires higher than that, it has lots of issues.