Now I understand this may not be a general audience type film but damn if this was one of the best Blu-Ray's I've seen and heard. The story of Jane Austen becoming Jane Austen the Author - done by the BBC and an Irish Film Studio.

Simply a visual piece of Art IMO in sight and sound and perfect Blu-Ray material for HT Size HD panels where the visuals that were such you could seemingly reach out and touch the scenes and the realistic period piece that was exceptional as was the sound and music to support it. Keep in mind the movie starts out a bit drab in the opening sequences though the level of details is striking in that drabness but there is a purpose behind it later when you find without proper matches between sons and daughters there's next to no money - it seems that everyone in the class society is beholden to someone else and women were pretty much chattel. As the movie progresses the class differences are clearly observed - something done in this movie better than any I've seen in presenting these factors.

In a day of Special Effects redundancy that can make you yawn at times this piece stood out to examine a mirror into the life of a masterful novelist and the struggles of the facts of those times where women were chattel and how matches between the sexes were bartered and an independent woman amidst the reality of the times we can take for granted today. I'm not normally an Art's film person and rented it for the wife who is but I found this one of the best overall Blu-Rays I've seen and heard since Black Book another Sleeper.

I disagree with the other posting that found it depressing - it's the story of what life was and presented wonderfully visually and the sound system for anyone with a high end HT System. Would anyone really expect the foundation behind her novels and the period in history to deny it's own period reality? Knowing the end result of her novels would anyone expect it to run the course of a Walt Disney script? I enjoyed it very much and got no sense of depression understanding the authors roots beforehand. ;)

Not for everyone I understand but it was stunning on my 57" Sharp LCD and the wife even commented in the walk scenes through the forest it was as if you could get up and walk into the damn scene it was so much that peering into the window effect and the story line presentation was refreshing compared to the run of the mill movies of late that seem to come out of a revolving file cabinet. (Though anyone familiar with "Pride and Prejudice" will see pieces of it as she was authoring parts of it within the film itself.)

Gets my Vote for Top Tier Blu-Ray and simply quality piece from BBC and Ireland film company IMO.