Brazil truly is a masterpiece - a jewel in the well-worn crown of stories examining the dehumanising effect of the modern world.  Gilliam paints a picture of love, dreams, hope, and common sense, crushed by the indifference of bureaucracy. Orwell and Huxley have been here before. Philip K. Dick has trodden this ground more than anyone. Pink Floyd's Roger Waters got well and truly lost in the subject in 'The Wall'.  But what Brazil lacks in originality it more than makes up for in style, interpretation, and the visuals of the metaphor.  Where others make allusions, Gilliam has a way of pulling you head-first into an idea. 
The film has a very raw feel to it - you can really tell that the artist has had full control (and as you watch the 'Love Conquers All' version, you thank the heavens that Gillam had his way in the end!).  As usual, an artists' freedom to indulge is a two edged sword for the viewer - one only has to watch Kubrick, Lynch, or some of the better efforts by Tarrentino, to appreciate the fine line between original and bizarre (or genius and madness?).  So too in Brazil there were one or two moments when I felt somebody else should have steered Gilliam back on track.  However, the 5 or 10 minutes of the film where Gilliam confuses, irritates, or even embarrasses you, is easily forgiven, as the rest of the time he simply blows you away. (mainstreem cinema tastes like spam after this flick!)
Overall, Brazil is for me the definitive piece of fiction offering a cynical window to the modern world.  If you have ever felt like the world is crazy, that common sense has gone awry, this film will share your concerns.  But what this film does like none other in it's linage is present you with an image of despair and frustration...and then make you laugh. I have never seen anything before (Dr Strangelove comes close) that was so bleak and dark and desperate and HILARIOUS at the same time.  Only one of the Python boys could achieve this, or so one is tempted to conclude...
I have made no comments regarding the technical specifications of this DVD release - (...)this edition has everything you *will* wish was on your DVD if you buy the Universal version.