While captivating during the opening scenes, Underworld Evolution falls short on the kind of dramatic plot and coherent character ideas that make the great movies. While the first Underworld movie began what promised to be an excellent saga following the bloodline of Alexander Covinus through his children both Lycan and Vampire, this second movie proves to be a major let down.

While the action scenes are violent and bloody (as would be expected), they are truly not the spectacular sights you would expect from immortal beings, who both in legend, and in current reading are vested with an awesome amount of power. Except for a single forest scene in which Selene utilizes the celeron power (supernatural speed) often attributed to vampires, and the demonstrations of superhuman strength, the movie fails to involve the abilities which vampires are universally agreed to have. The use of guns and knives, both of which are human inventions and capable of little by comparison to the natural abilities of vampires and lycanthropes (lycans for short), makes for an almost comical collection of battle scenes. Add to that the weakness of both Markus and William (the ancient descendants of both races who by all practical reasoning should be the most powerful beings on the planet) and you will find that what should be epic storytelling with epic battles has become an excuse for some worthless gun battles.

The end not only defeats any idea of climactic sequence, it literally leaves the watcher dumbfounded. After releasing his long imprisoned brother William, Markus faces off against Selene while Michael faces the freshly released beast of beasts. However, what should prove to be a tooth and nail struggle for Michael (after all, he is fighting the most powerful Lycan) ends up being as simple as the ever-present King Kong like jaw rip, killing William and enraging Markus. Speaking of whom also seems to have little power. Granted that Selene has diablerized Alexander Covinus, and now has his blood in her veins, but you would think that the ancient Markus would have been a more challenging enemy to defeat. However, in a matter of a few seconds, Selene dispatches Markus by fatally throwing him into the spinning blades of a downed helicopter. Truly an anti-climactic end for what throughout the movie promised to be the battle to end all battles.

To the director's credit though, it would be unfair if I did not mention a few things. The fact that the movie begins exactly where the previous movie ended was a very good decision, one that the world of sequels would do well to imitate. Also, the penchant for blue-tinted screen shots remained in this movie and keeps the sequel smoothly congruent with its predecessor. And finally, the filming techniques utilized from the way the shots capture some of the rugged forest scenes to the angles from which other scenes are shot give an interesting and sometimes breathtaking screen to the viewer.

All in all, while a descent action flick, this movie left me wondering why I anticipated it for so long.