I would recommend, Christmas with the Kranks, is viewed by only people who are looking for a brainless movie to watch late at night, because it doesn't have any extraordinary aspects to it, and because it has no thought provoking values. Furthermore, the acting in very elementary and easy to follow so serves as easy watch.

On the day of November 27, 2005, at 3:30 pm I watched this movie twice through, in my living room, at my house in Bells Flats. This gives me the information and background to be able to review this movie.

By saying a movie is brainless I mean that it doesn't take any brain power before, after or during the movie. Watching the movie is like watching a soap opera, the story line is straight forward, so the mind is at easy watching it.

This movie is basically shot with a wide angle standard lens the entire film. The camera plays no tricks on your eyes and is pretty much straight forward. The scenes are not abstract in anyway. They incorporate no tilt effects or panning effects that make the eye cautious in watching. Most of the scenes are evenly lit and give no suspenseful play to the movie. No special features are brought in such as masking, or a hidden item, that would add any sort of depth to the film. These aspects of film weighted it, it allows for easy watching. Nothing is suspenseful and your eyes become lazily satisfied with the scene. However, being so easy to watch, if it is late you might just fall asleep half way through it.

In film some directors, make the audience guess what is going to happen next. Not in this film. Although there is a plot and a storyline the movie doesn't have the watcher on the edge of their seats asking, "What is going to happen next?" It doesn't engage the watcher mind. Therefore it is great for those people who have had a long day and don't really want to engage themselves. Those people also tend to be the people who don't have a long attention span at night, and this movie won't help that.

The acting in this movie proves to be very elementary. The main characters have no up's and down's to their personalities. They have their semi-freak-out moments, but other than that their characters are dry. Not very engaging the characters become normal human beings on screen and are not hard to watch or follow. Not true for all of Jamie Lee Curtis and Tim Allan's movies, but very true for this one. They didn't give the extra oomph that the comedy in this movie needed and therefore the film became dry and a half a laugh movie at most.

For those people on a late Friday night this movie maybe in the stack coming home from Blockbuster, but for all those other viewers, there are better choices to be considered for a laugh out loud sort of movie.