Literary 'Types' can make for long-lived cinenma characters, which make for what are called nowadays, Franchises, like the James Bond series.  Just yesterday I was lookiing over the first filmed CASINO ROYALE -- that black/white demi-feature/part movie production for TV -- and was reminded yet again of something I'd seen in an old Hitchcck movie, this one called SECRET AGENT.  It was mostly the black and whie character of the picture that caught me; it seemed to exagerate certain macabre qualities in the background players.  The had the look of marionnettes.  This New Look post-war drama was supposed to take place in a gambling casino on the French Riviera.  The costumes the actors wore were from a time half a century past, and there, in the center of the assembly, was a face I couldn't forget, Peter Lorre, the Vienese actor, playing the part of a Russian villain, LeChiffre, as he'd played countless villains in dozens of films, from his celebrated debut in 'M' down to any pot-boiler you care to name.  And then it hit me:  He's playing or almost camping, his role as the General from SECRET AGENBT.

I don't believe I ever saw the original broadcast of the Fleming story; if I had I'd almost certainly have remembered it.  Live Television broadcasts of dramatizations were sensational and absolutely thrilling to a degree difficult to imagine nowadays.

What's particularly interesting about that is that the role of the General was adapted from one of W. Somorset Maugham's stories, THE MEXICAN ASSASSIN from his unusual novel THE ASHENDEN STORIES; a novel in the form of several interrelated but independent stories.  Hitchcock chose two of those stories, THE MEXICAN ASSASSIN and another one the title of which I can't remember, to make THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH.

Now, Lorre made 'M' when he was very young and plump.  That added to the excitement of the story of a psychoathic pedophile murderer.  For decades Lorre remained caught in what would have been a deadly, limiting Monster career rut, pedophile as swish homo.  That he's seen here in earrings with curled hair and mouthing a camp Spanish is part of the same pseudo-sexual angle he used to play Joel Cairo in THE MALTESE FALCON.  Type.  It was all type, then.  And that hack work fed him and his happy Hollywood family well for years, through his MISTER MOTO (Japanese) period, and virtually until the day he died.  Echoes of all that false sexual persona rang out in CASINO ROYALE, in the un-manly slights and slurs this (blonde, Nordic) American James Bond of the 50s hurled at him.

Be all that as it may have been, what interests me, here -- and what I hope may interest you -- is the role young John Gielgud plays; Ashenden, the British Agent.  Now, there had been English detectives before, in silents, and in talkies -- there was always Conan doyle, after all, as well as many others -- but this was the first time a certain, new kind of detective stuck in the public's sub-conscious.  Imagine:  A reluctant detective and agent moving seamlessly through the ranks of international society folks?  The rich and idle at play?  We know if we examine the fiction and film (THE RICH ARE ALWAYS WITH US) and (DODSWORTH) of the thirties, that after the Financial Crash the rich left their countries -- to avoid the possibility of public unpleasantnesses and/or revolutions -- and travelled the globe on ships, trains and planes, going from one remote watering place to another remote watering place and spa, often ingognito and biding their time.  Maugham will be seen travelling with them in fact, and through art will  become the fictional James Bond.

And now, this Ashenden.  Who is he?  He was, a real man, and his name was William Somorset Maugham.  Maugham wrote about himself at a remove.  This movie which was released in 1936, was a transmutation of various incidents in his career nearly twenty years before; things that happened to him during WW I.  You see, Maugham had been inducted into the English Secret Service and actually was in fact, a working spy.  He describes the incident in one of the ASHENDEN stories, and gives the name of the head of the Service as 'C.'  It's 'M' in the Bond stories, but to check Maugham, you might want to read 'THE LIFE OF SIR STEWART MENZIES, SPYMASTER TO CHURCHILL, by Anthony Cane Brown.'  'C' was real.  Maugham was real too.

But, why Maugham?  Maugham's first language was French.  He was born in Paris where his diplomat father was stationed.  He spoke English with an impediment all his life, though he spoke both French and German without any impediment of any kind.  He had been trained as a doctor, but never practiced, and had steady nerves, no fear of blood, and was not squeamish.  As a young man he made his debut as a novelist and had some success, but he changed and became a playwright and enjoyed enormous popular success.  He became the toast of London and New York, knew everybody and socialized widely and at the highest levels.  'C' therefore, thought he would not be out of place in high society, everywhere.  Maugham married an attractive,  stylish woman he did not love -- a society interior decorator with connections in aristocratic circles -- and they were seen everywhere together.  She presented him with a daughter he did not recognizr for more than two decades, and they maintained the appearance of a socially acceptable domesticity, with little or no intimacy.  'C' thought that because he was an artist and possibly an homosexual, he would be accustomed to dealing with criminals as well as other low types.

Maugham proved to be dependable and brave.  He was one of the last people to live British Headquarters, Moscow, after the Bolsheviks began taking over the city and it became apparent that the English incursion (or invasoin) into Russia would come to nothing.

THE MEXICAN ASSASSIN tells the story of an assignment he was given by 'C', in which he was to hire and then to direct a professional killer from another country -- who it turns out, does not perfectly understand English or reconize Agency protocol -- to do a job in yet a third country.  The man does his murder, and is paid off.  Then, Ashenden finds the wrong man has been murdered.  Well, two or possibly three of these ASHENDEN stories were turned into Hitchcock movies.

I have seen all the Fleming-BOND derived movies over and over, and pre-BOND templates as well.  Except for the gadgets, none of them have any surprises for me.  The best of the BOND stories are pale indeed, beside the ASHANDEN ones.  However, I love them all because I love Maugham's original conception; his style.  I think we all do, though we may not understand it.

Anyway, to me the real interest in the old movie here, SECRET AGENT, is knowing its origin and watching actors play out their parts in what became, over time, internationally recognizable faux-lovers and Types in Cinema; the smartly dressed, dangerous yet diffident man, and the clinging, neurotic and perhaps fatally compromised woman.  They appear in all the BOND movies in various forms and permutations, but here they have a particular appeal when one contrasts the chaming and outgoing Madelaine Caroll with the cold, diffident John Gielgud.  In a true marriage of convenience, they are friendly, but flawed.  Like the lovers in some E.T.A. Hoffmann ballet, they are held in a glittering web of evil -- able to gesture, but not to connect.  And we, because we are in the dark and pity thier beautiful unhapppiness, we love them because they cannot love themselves.

Turn off the sound and watch them move across those strange, beautiful rooms, filled with those over-dressed people.  Danger!  Cold, pale, restless, they don't know who they are.