Perhaps in this case, reading the book first could only guarantee being lead to movie disappointment.  Among other reasons, I especially speak of the thread throughout the book from the point of discovery of the mysteriously abandoned motor invention by Dagny Taggert,  strewn amongst the ruins of the Wisconsin auto factory.  It was an integral binding thread of the novel, seemingly dismissed by movie writers, directors, and producers.  In the movie, Hank Rearden takes the credit--has the discovery of it's wonder--as if he would have been more knowledgeable or intuitive than the woman with whom by then he was sleeping with.

Minute or moot point?  Nit-picky on my part? Absolutely not.  Hank was nowhere to be found in the long time she spent alone, ripping up her nylons and clothes to salvage what she knew represented intellectual greatness. It kept Dagny going not only to gather every scrap of evidence until spent and bloody, it kept her on the search for the mind of the inventor, all based upon everything she thought she stood for--her philosophical moral/ethical values placed in action.

Mentally, at the moment of Hank's so-called discovery being theatrically promoted instead, well...that's when I dismissed the movie and had to force myself to watch the rest.

I also object vehemently to Wyatt Ellis's character (or perhaps his utter heathen behavior, beneath that of even the wildest west cowboy or derrick builder), but okay--that I could have accepted far easier if that had been the only faux pas and disservice to this masterpiece of literary fiction.  I won't even bother about the Tagget brother's character--not nearly sniveling, sneaky or brown-nosing enough.

Sigh.  In retrospect I suppose (quite dejectedly said): how could a movie only this long for Part 1 even so much as hope to cover even a small sliver of the depth of characters? The worst of it is: without it, if you've never read 'Atlas Shrugged' you're left wondering about the passions and persistence of some of the characters--and you lose the entire point of the original novel.

Part 1 could have stood on it's own merits to be a mini-series in and of itself.  Better yet: a series developed for PBS Masterpiece Classic, with the USA finally giving the BBC a run for their romantic-past money.

Actually, the first in-your-face mistake was to try to manipulate the time period in which Rand wrote, yet keeping the same tangible idea of it being trains and railroads.  I may be too much of a by-gone era purist who can actually still remember riding the rails pulled by cool art deco locomotives, but were it me,  I'd have left Rand's masterpiece alone, to stand where it was frozen in a time of aging industrialism and operator-assisted phone lines.  Something will *always* be "wanting" in this movie production because of the attempt to pull the story only half-way into the present.

Truly sorry to have to write this about the movie version of Part 1 of Atlas Shrugged---I wanted to love the movie so much, but I know the book too intimately. Please excuse any typos/grammatical errors.