I think Mr. Schumacher OD'd on that stupid, campy 60's Batman and never looked at the character again.  Tim Burton is spinning in his grave for what Schumacher did, and the guy's not even dead yet.  Burton's vision of Batman was a direct extension of the beautiful redesign work of Frank Miller; Batman as a dark, troubled vigilante, a step or two above the criminals he punished.  The way it should be.  ...Schumacher took it and destroyed it, completely.  Take a look at the original Bob Kane Batman, Joel; the stories were dark, plain and simple.  But thanks to... Schumacher,... Akiva Goldsman, this is what we are left with until Hollywood gets their stuff together and greenlights another live-action Batman.  The list of things wrong with this movie would fill up a hundred reviews (ah, for a zero star rating), but here are the biggies:
1) Bane is a major villian the the Batman world.  He even broke Bruce Wayne once, forcing him to turn the mantle over to another Batman who subsequently went nearly insane.  Here, Bane is little more than Igor, going around grunting such intriguing dialouge as "Bomb!"  Again, thanks Goldsman.  Here's some career advice, stick to light stuff, like Lost In Space.  Leave the real writing to adults.
2) The Batman credit card thing makes me sick to my stomach.  What are you people thinking!!!!!
3) Batman making public appearances???!!!  C'mon!
4) Robin is annoying and Batgirl is useless and annoying.  She's Alfred's neice and Bruce doesn't know of her?  I mean, Alfred has only taken care of Bruce his entire life.
5) What's with the giant statues of naked men all over the city?  Does that give a hint of Schumacher's personal preferences?  Hmmmmm.
That's all I can say for now; I feel lunch coming back up.  Unfortunately, being a Batman fan, I am forced into having this in my collection, but it is gathering dust.  One final note, Clooney has publically blamed himself for the bust that this movie was.  Don't blame him; he's just working with what he has to work with, terrible direction from Schumacher and a story that could have been written by a fourth-grader from Goldsman.  Hopefully this movie has finally shown the bull-headed movie execs how to successfully create a comic book movie.  It's a simple formula: Be true to the fans.  And with the success of the X-men and the positive hype surrounding Spider-Man, it looks like the message may be getting through.
P.S. If you want Batman the way it should be, check out the animated series.  You can recieve those on VHS from Columbia House.