The contradictory title of my review sums up my feelings about this flick.  It's bad because:  (1) It's set in the supposedly realistic environment of a modern military prison, but it's very unbelievable (you'll see what I mean if you make it to the last half-hour). (2) You know, more or less, how it's going to end from the opening scenes, because the set-up is so predictable: noble, god-like prisoner vs. sadistic prison warden who's turned his prison into a hellhole. (3) It shovels a huge load of jingoistic claptrap about the U.S. military that you must either agree with or have the ability to ignore in order to see it through.

But, it's good because:  (1) The performances are great.  James Gandolfini and Robert Redford make interesting, although unequal, adversaries, and the tension between them feels real.  Redford was 65 years old at the time of filming and in very fit condition.  So, even though his role is highly idealized, it's not hard to imagine him as a super-soldier trained over a lifetime of combat to stand his ground in the face of adversity.  The supporting cast is also excellent, particularly Clifton Collins Jr. and Steve Burton.  (However, the lack of important African-American characters, with the exception of the token bigshot played by Delroy Lindo, is a failing of the film, considering how many Black extras are in the movie.) (2) The pacing is excellent, and just when I thought I was going to stop watching, something hooked me in to stick with it.  (3) The action scenes are well edited (although hard to believe) and have real energy and excitement in them.  (4) The script contains some interesting twists and turns that, while not changing the outcome, bring some depth to the storyline.

To sum up:  if you enjoy prison films, lots of manly bluster with some violence, a heroic slant on the military, good acting and action sequences, and can overlook the "WHAT? you've got to be kidding me!"  factor of the last half-hour, you might just enjoy THE LAST CASTLE.