I was determined not to like this film, scarred as I still am by Howard unrelievedly boring and sanitized rip-off Apollo 13. But I couldn't resist Kaufmann's rousing film.

I did find it looked kind of dull on DVD, especially early on (I watched the original snap-case version). All the back-lighting, sepia tones and low-contrast took a while to warm up to. As the film progresses a fuller spectrum of colors and a gratifying amount of detail are present in the transfer, but I'm still wondering to what extent the new Special Edition version improves on the original and how accurately either captures Deshanel's vision.

What made the film come alive was the dialogue, beginning with the potty-mouthed old barmaid's irreverence. I had to pause and get the subtitles. From that point I was on board.

I don't generally go for tales of heroism. We live in the age of the anti-hero, after all. What Right Stuff does so well is to remind us that hero's are made by the situations they find themselves in, not their inherently virtuous personalities. Heros can be rowdy, rude, and full of over-weening self-confidence and we still love them-- for their courage, their risk-taking and strength.

The film is an unabashed celebration of what Harvey Mansfield calls "manliness". And it accomplishes this despite scenes of men with tubes hanging out of their butts (in one comical hospital scene), wetting themselves in spacesuits, and breaking down because they feel over-looked and wrongly accused. It shows us a generation of men who defined themselves by their sense of mission and not their political correctness, and compels us to love them, warts and all. In that sense it is a deeply life-affirming film.

It helps that all these actors--here in their long-past prime--are so easy on the eye. And they look like heros. Even Shepherd--who would have been the perfect actor to play Abraham Lincoln--is beautiful to watch in his ugly allure, while Ed Harris seems impossibly unblemished and frisky-fresh. If you love men--erotically or morally-- you'll dig The Right Stuff.