"That's it?  I'm Picking the Movie Next Time...", said a woman three rows behind me, rather loudly, as the credits began to roll.  I think that if, instead, it had gone 5 minutes longer and ended with a tear-flowing, apology-laden embrace...that she would have been satisfied.  She missed the entire point of the film...probably on purpose.

I came into the movie expecting it to be a warning to all those thinking about marriage.  Basically, the main characters are stuck.  Stuck together.  They've got the house, the kids, the car, the white picket fence.  But then what?  They aren't happy.  They try to think of a way to escape...but both of them know it wouldn't work.  There is no way for them to be happy together.  There is a "crazy guy" in the movie, fresh out of the psych-ward who acts as the voice of truth.  Of blunt truth.  He's the only truthful character in the movie.  Everyone else lies to themselves and plays the "happy suburbia" game.

I know people like this.  They married young under societal and family pressures.  Got their car.  Got their house.  Got their kids.  Got their white picket fence.  But...they aren't happy.  They're stuck.  Can't change careers.  Can't go back to school to pursue something interesting to their soul.

Not one single character in the movie is happy.  Actually the thing that seems to scare the characters most is the possibility of seeing someone else achieve the happiness they cannot.  As long as everyone is "in this together" (misery loves company), then they won't have to feel bad about themselves.

A lot of people will see this movie and distance themselves from it, just like the characters in the movie did with the main couple:  "Gee, what's wrong with them?  Why do they choose to be depressed?  Why can't they just be happy?  They've got food in their bellies and a place to live.  I'm glad I'll never/didn't end up like them."  This kind of person is doomed to end up like these characters.  The money, the kids, the possessions...these things don't make a person happy.  The main characters compromised themselves, compromised their dreams and ambitions in order to have these things.  And it destroyed them.

I think it speaks volumes that when the crazy character speaks...the audience roars in laughter.  But he's just speaking the honest truth, brutally blunt as he is.  It shouldn't be funny.  It shouldn't be strange.  It's ironic that if his character wasn't crazy, and still said these things, that it probably wouldn't be accepted by the audience as a plausible character.  We're all so used to lying to ourselves and others that seeing someone speak blunt truth is uncomfortable, and wildly outside of normal societal conventions.  So we laugh to release the tension.

I have friends and family that are destroying themselves in different ways.  Gambling.  Obesity.  Infidelity.  Not seeking medical attention when they obviously should.  Others not taking their medication.  It would be great if this crazy character could visit these people for me and speak the truth.  Maybe wake them up.  Help save them...before it's too late.  And I would like to be that character for them.  But it wouldn't help.  As the crazy character in the movie states:  "Emptiness and Hopelessness" is what they're stuck in.  And any attempt I could make to shake them out of that would be met with the same violent rage and indignation as DiCaprio's character in the film.  If I tried anything I would become an unwelcome pariah.  Realistically there is nothing I can do.

This movie re-enforced what I've always felt.  Whether you're happy or not is your own damn fault and no one else's; a lesson that very few people ever learn.  You need to do whatever makes you happy.  Chase that.  Live that.  Never compromise that for anyone or any reason.  Period.  The second you stop living for yourself is the second you stop living, and start destroying yourself.  But introspection, "knowledge of self", is the most important thing you need to be truly happy; to stop lying to yourself and see the truth clearly.

This movie would be good companion viewing with "It's a Wonderful Life".  It's like the anti-Capra film.  Jimmy Stewart's George Bailey did everything we're told to do.  Everything all our lives we're told is right.  Everything that should give a man true happiness.  He sacrifices his dream (see the world, etc.), in order to serve his family and community by working for the family business in a job he hates and resents.  The sad truth is, the real-life townsfolk of Bedford Falls would have been indifferent to George's situation (reacted as Potter expected them to), and the real-life George Bailey would have ended up at the bottom of that river.

Nevertheless, I think I might make both of these films a yearly viewing ritual, to make sure I've got my life priorities in order.  To make sure I'm not lying to myself.  To make sure I'm not lying to others for my own benefit or to their detriment.  To make sure I'm not living my life to live up to the same pipe-dream (i.e. "American dream") lies.

You know, the more I write this review, the more I admire Revolutionary Road.  Originally I was going to write 2 or 3 lines on this flick and give it three stars.  But I found an awful lot to chew on...