I honestly don't.  This movie has gotten reviewed and rated through the roof.  Siskel and Ebert gave the thing two thumbs up for crying out loud!  I have watched it three times now and don't have a clue why!?  First off let me say that I thought it was a good movie, and a great movie compared to a lot of other things I've seen.  However, I can't quite tell why people think this is so amazing.
Enough of me blabbering about my feelngs, you probably want to know why I didn't like it.  I am a big Fan on the storyline.  Secondly, I like a few metaphors in my movies and I need them to make me think.  However, I also don't like movies that have really really dense (and questionable)metaphors going on.  Akira made me question my life for a week, Evangelion made me think about my beliefs for even longer, Ghost in the shell made me think about the...dollars I spent on it.  It goes on about how it will make you question yourself and is a great metaphor for how technology is affecting your life, but frankly I didn't find that true.
I also don't like movies that don't end (The follwing statement should give you a pretty good idea about what I'm saying: "Evangelion has an end; this doesn't").  In my Mind, the whole thing is a prologue to "something else".  Although I've heard rumors about a series over in Japan I don't exactly think this was made with such a sequel in mind.  The ending has more to do with showing the viewers a omen of their lifes with technology to come and then sends them out in the world to change it.  That is a key element to the metaphorical storyline.  However, the story will leave you feeling very unsatisfied where they choose to end it.  If you haven't seen it, I'm warning you now.
Now that I've gotten that off my chest, let me end by saying that the animation was beautiful!!  Despite the fact it's more racy than I'd like, it has, just, phenominal graphics and fight scenes that will leave you breathless.  However, you may forget them in your disgust with the movie's ending.