Hitch is a 2005 romantic comedy film starring Will Smith, Eva Mendes, Kevin James and Amber Valletta. The film is directed by Andy Tennant and written by Kevin Bisch. Smith plays a professional matchmaker, who makes a living teaching men how to woo women. The film was released on February 11, 2005 by Columbia Pictures.

Alex "Hitch" Hitchens (Will Smith) is a professional "date doctor", or consultant as Hitch terms himself, who coaches other men in the art of having the perfect date with the woman of their dreams.

While coaching one of his clients, Albert Brennaman (Kevin James), who is smitten with celebrity Allegra Cole (Amber Valletta), Hitch finds himself falling for Sara Melas (Eva Mendes), a gossip columnist who is determined to unmask and ruin the so-called date doctor after one of his "clients" (with whom Hitch refused to work) had a one-night stand with her best friend. However, where Albert and Allegra's relationship continues to progress, Hitch finds that none of his tried and tested methods are working on himself, despite being a master of the art. After Hitch is unmasked, he and Sara break up, and Allegra and Albert follow suit. Finally, Hitch confronts Allegra and convinces her to reunite with Albert, before reconciling with Sara. In the process, he makes the startling discovery that he doesn't really do anything significant, and that most of his customers (particularly Albert) really were successful by just being themselves. In the end, Albert and Allegra get married and celebrate their marriage with Hitch and Sara,who are also back together again. Hitch, reflecting on love's unpredictability, addresses the audience in the last line, "Basic principles... There are none."

The production budget was $70,000,000. Smith alleged that actress Eva Mendes, of Cuban descent, was offered the female lead because the producers were worried about the public's reaction if the part was played by a White actress (creating a potential interracial taboo) or a Black actress (creating a studio fear that two black leads would alienate the white audiences). It was believed that a Latina and a Black lead would sidestep the issue.[2] Robinne Lee's character (Cressida) was originally offered to Bollywood actress Aishwarya Rai, but she could not take the role due to scheduling problems.[3] The working title of the movie was The Last First Kiss, referring to a line that Hitch delivers to Albert: "This could be her last first kiss." Parts of the movie were filmed in Morningside Heights, Manhattan, at Columbia University.

Will Smith as Alex "Hitch" Hitchens
Eva Mendes as Sara Melas
Kevin James as Albert Brennaman
Amber Valletta as Allegra Cole
Julie Ann Emery as Casey Sedgewick
Adam Arkin as Max
Robinne Lee as Cressida Baylor
Nathan Lee Graham as Geoff
Michael Rapaport as Ben
Jeffrey Donovan as Vance Munson
Paula Patton as Mandy

The film received mixed to generally positive reviews, garnering a 68% "fresh" approval rating from notable critics, a 61% approval rating from top critics, and a 73% approval rating from users on the Rotten Tomatoes website. It also received a 58/100 on Metacritic,indicating "mixed or average reviews." The film also ended up grossing $179,495,555 domestically, making it the tenth-highest grossing film of 2005. It also grossed $368,100,420 worldwide and broke Sony's record for best opening weekend for a romantic-comedy film.