My picks for Summerslam 2010****

We welcome you to Summerslam 2010!!!
Jerry "the king" Lawler michael "wish j.r was back" cole and 'mean" matt striker are in teh announcer booth and we get the show started with......

Christian v.s Dolph Ziggler
Christian wins in a great opening. Remember Ziggler vs Mysterio from Summerslam 2009, well this is better.

Streetfight
Matt Hardy v.s Drew McIntyre
Hardy wins becausre Drews push is over...
Maybe we get a Christian and Matt hardy tag team or fued... tag team prolly cuz they are both babyfaces and well.... we need more good tag teams. They can be "Hardy-Christian" or "Christian-Boyz" or just simply Cristian and Matt...

Then we get Cena in teh back talking low and then getting louder about how he is a role model and how he wants his title back.... I say NO!!! dont give it to him. As a matter of fact, release him for being boring BOOOOOOO!!!!!

next match !!!!

Intercontinetal Title Match
Kofi Kingston v.s Ted Dibiase
Kofi wins by DQ when Ted gets frustrated and decides to use teh million dollar belt as a weapon. Then somewhere Kofi will hit Ted wit the trouble in paradise OUT OF NOWHERE !!!! to make teh kids happy. Maybe Kofi will bleed from getting hit with the belt..... then prolly not.

We get a video package of the Miz hating Brian and how he though he sucked and Michael Cole talking bad about him and then Brian talks about how it truly felt to get fired and why he was abandoned by his NXT brtheren and what it will mean to him to be the US champion.... then they fight!!!!

US Title Match
The Miz vs. Brian Daniaelson
Danielson wins in his return to teh WWE... Lets say he makes teh Miz tap!!! that shouldnt be too hard, He cant be THAT awesome can he????

We get another Video package... and then we see orton... the Viper... then he stares and walks off...

TLC Match for number one contender spot
Edge V.S Randy Orton
Orton wins and im gonna bet that someone in this match gets hurt... I beleieve its time for Edge to lose a TLC matchand Orton is the guy to beat him.... plus im sure they wouldnt do another TLC PPV this year too.... or would they.....????

WWE Unified tag title match 4 way
The Hart Dynasty vs. The Usos Vs. The dude busters vs. R Truth and John Morrison
THD keeps teh titles in what will probably be just a tag match but

Evan Bourne v.s Chris Jericho
bourne defeats jericho and wouldnt that be a treat to have a bourne Vs Danielson match/

World HW title match
Rey Mysterio vs. Jack Swagger vs. CM Punk
If its Rey vs Cm then CM wins the title but if its a 3 way I say rey keeps it til survivor series

WWE World title Match
John Cena vs. Shaemus vs. Wade Barrett
Shaemus will keep the title and I see Cena fueding w/ barret for month or two.

I didnt feel like doing an elaborate explanation of everything. What do you think about his lineup?