I'd heard of Jim Jarmusch before watching this movie, but I didn't know anything about the movie itself besides that odd ringing of the title in my head that said I'd heard it hurtled around several times before. Besides that, there was something beautiful in the opening scenes that reeled in my interest. Willie (John Lurie) and Eva (Eszter Balint) play the parts in what Lost in Translation would look like in 80s New York with grumpy Hungarian immigrants, watching hours of TV together with only the occasional exchange of caustic words here and there to 'break' the monotony.

Without background on the film, I expected the sort of redemption that Coppola provides to her version, and missing the idea that it was supposed to be a dark comedy, I found the twists and turns at the end to be kitschy and jarring, and a cop out from the juicy miserable realism of the beginning. I, for one, back this viewing angle, with the sense that feeling the sad frustrations of each lost soul, instead of sitting back and laughing at their doomed exploits, is a much more affecting way to watch it. It's a melancholy character piece at heart, dark comedy be damned.

The omnipresent theme of the story is boredom and a pathological lack of originality. Eva becomes the central point because she has the ability to create interesting episodes between bouts of sitting around. Through the simple acts of stealing, turning on music, and stumbling randomly upon the event which becomes the final, screwball plot point, she becomes the crown jewel of this world by default.

Willie and Eddie, by comparison, seem to react only within an extremely limited, prescribed set of actions. Though they do occasionally make bold moves (going to Cleveland, then to Florida), these are only the simplest solutions to quenching their desires (to spend time with Eva). Once in Cleveland (and then in Florida), they have no idea what to do, nor any possibility of coming up with something spontaneous. When Eva decides to fly to Europe, Willie immediately decides to go after her and stop her. There is no question of letting her go; the two are completely lost without her, with no hope of finding fun themselves.

My only problem with all this is that it's too real, and in fact gives me flashbacks of forced relative-time in childhood, before I had a chance to develop any immunity against the terrors of semi-normal human banality. And, reminding me of my own flaws in the arena of originality, it drops a specter on my back that will haunt me for the rest of my days with the image of a middle-aged me, slinking around a bare apartment in my thirties with nothing to do, and nothing going on, but choking the alligator one more time.