It's always a dicey proposition when a beloved series goes from one distributor to another, especially when Rhino did such a fantastic job with the MST3K box sets. Sadly,Shout Factory tried but came nowhere near to living up to Rhino's standards.

First, let's discuss the packaging. The limited-edition tin is nice, but it's massive, and needlessly so. The cheesy plastic Crow figure included in the set doesn't merit the mounds of plastic it's buried in, and neither do the thin individual DVD cases or "lobby cards". As mentioned in other reviews, the box of DVDs inside the tin are crammed in so tight it's a 50/50 chance that you'll get them out without damaging it. The DVD cases are also prone to slip right out of the box unless you're careful how you hold it. I liked Rhino's fold-out single case much better. The whole tin concept turns out to be more of a pain than an enjoyment, as designed.

Now, on to the DVDs. I popped "Werewolf" in and grabbed the remote, ready to jump to the opening movie sequence. I was surprised to find myself about 15 minutes into the episode instead of just after the "movie sign!" tunnel scene as Mike & the 'bits just enter the theater. The Rhino sets had chapter stops set either right after each commercial break, or actually at each movie or host segment(don't recall right now). You always knew where you were going with a chapter skip, instead of just landing at some arbitrary spot in the show. They also passed on including chapter selections, all of which seems to point to ways to shave production costs. It comes off feeling like a bare-bones effort, and is rather annoying when you want to jump to or repeat a certain scene. I haven't watched the extras yet, but do appreciate something being included. Three "History of MST3K" shorts are included in the set.

Now that the complaining is done, let's discuss the epsiodes. You get two greats, one good, and one mediocre. "Werewolf" is one of the most laugh-out-loud funny episodes in series history. It's so poorly conceived that the jokes literally write themselves, but this doesn't stop Mike & the 'bots from ripping off one classic riff after another. Yuri, the man of a 1000 hair-dos, a werewolf with road rage, a female lead with an unidentifiable accent and the acting chops & emotion of a medical cadaver, the inimitable Joe Estevez . . . it's all there in this Tony Zarindast classic. The only thing saving this film from "Plan 9" territory is a typical performance by B-movie veteran Richard Lynch. He can deliver the most ridiculous dialogue with convincing professionalism. "Laserblast" is another great episode. A truly awful early Charles Band effort, the MST3K treatment adds the fun and laughs. The South's gonna do it again! "Future War" is a good episode, falling short of greatness by a few feet. A lot of laughs, but it's one of the films that's so bad there are moments where the boys just seem confounded to rip away. "First Spaceship on Venus" is the weakest of the lot. I'm not a huge fan of the Joel era, and this one doesn't do anything to change my thoughts on that. Something better could've been selected, but it is what it is.

In any case, it's great to see MST3K still getting the box-set treatment. This set is must have from a show/episode standpoint. I'm not knocking the episodes at all. However, I hope that Shout Factory gets with it and includes individual chapter stops and jumps. That's all I ask, please!