Holy moley!  I thought the praise on the DVD box was too effusive, too uncritical, too much marketing hype.  Now I'm a believer.  This is just about as perfect a performance as you could ever ask for.  Regardless of what you may think or know of her (well-publicized) offstage behavior, Angela Gheorghiu is simply beyond reproach in this live video.  She looks like the ideal Violetta, her acting is very moving, and best of all, she sings the part as it was meant to be sung -- musically, dramatically, thrillingly.  She judges her dynamics perfectly, never singing too loud -- she projects even the softest of pianissimos over the orchestra -- but she can really rip out the high notes when called for.  Her coloratura is flawless, and yet it never sticks out like a mere technical show (as with some singers) -- when she sings it, it's an integral part of the drama of the moment.  She sings the lyrical, legato passages with a genuine sense of line, but she also sings the whole with just the right amount of declamation.  Her voice is very pleasing to the ear, yet distinctive and instantly recognizable.  Now I can finally understand why people went nuts over Maria Callas 40-50 years ago.  I'll probably get some grief for making this comparison, as I'm a Callas ignoramus, but I imagine that this performance by Gheorghiu must be like what Callas's performances used to be like -- perfect singing, perfect acting, and perfect *integration* of singing and acting.
Everyone else on this video is pretty good, too.  In fact, Solti is (was) great -- his conducting is exciting and his tempos are, on the whole, well judged.  Frank Lopardo is a solid Alfredo, and Leo Nucci a somewhat bland but decent Germont -- and like Gheorghiu, they each totally look the part.  The sound and picture quality are both very good.
The only thing that maddens me is that it took Decca so ridiculously long (almost 7 years) to release this video in the United States.  (I think it was available in other countries on VHS.)  Well, at any rate, it's here now, so what are you waiting for?  Get it!