There have been many attempts to explore the layers of shackles that inhibit,  cage,  strangle the wondrous, unique God-created self that is meant to be fully alive in all its human dimensions. Juliet,  played by Fellini's actual wife,  Gullietta Masina,  is this beautiful, good, woman - wife, mother, etc. who has many forces battering her true self from all sides.  Fellini takes us on a journey of the many ersatz freedom trails and explosive experiences that today's world will offer to "set one free" - all proving false,  fake,  empty,  desperate,  rip-offs if one seeks the real thing,  junk food if one is seeking soul-food.  All of it done in gaspable color,  bizarre settings and imagery,  in what has led to the very word,  "Fellini-esque".  Her cheating husband is leaving her. Her physical, mental world is crumbling.  Little glimpses of sanity flash here and there in quick scenes of a grandfather, crazily bearded and wickedly playful who is running away with a beautiful, very buxomy showgirl in a bi-wing plane;  and the sanity of a father roaring onto the stage during the performance of a school play to extract his daughter Juliet who is portraying a martyr on a bed of flames. The father is shouting against the horror and cruelty of such things being presented as part of religion. The "carpe diem" grandfather,  the "protect them from fire and brimstone" father  -  veritable salvation images. Fellini's  delightful comedic spirit linked to his at times melodramatic, and justifiably critical attitude towards religion.  WE watch as Juliet teeter-totters on the brink of insanity and suicide.  But it all stops as she says NO to an inner voice command her mother gives her,  then NO to other forces "do this, should do that" in her life ....... and then nods she begins to nod  YES  to  Juliet,  to one thing, then another  ....  and with stronger and more deliberate steps,  walks out of the country house, which looks very much like an "everything-in-its-place" doll house.  Juliet walks serenely in the grove of tall pine trees - in the  truth of her own life .... in the only truth that sets us free.  In the background is the jaunty music of Nino Rota,  Fellini's most frequently used composer.  Life is once again affirmed.  Life with a serenity,  a peace,  a strength.
After La Dolce Vita,  Fellini's big success, he made  81/2,  which entered Fellini's own torment as director with creative block. [The musical Nine is based on the movie 81/2.}  Juliet of the Spirits,  followed 81/2, and is  Fellini's first movie in color. It is the exploration of a woman's soul.  But also a commentary on the shaping of one's self - which applies to man or woman.  There are truths here that are of a depth that may well be further than Fellini's own awareness.  But like in all true art -  the resonances -  the frissons that result,  are the fruits of true art.  And of these fruits we are all invited to partake and stretch our spirits and thus become ever more embrasive of all that is human ......