I had high hopes going in to SHADOW OF THE VAMPIRE.  Willem Dafoe's Oscar-nominated performance looked like it would be a lot of fun, and the idea behind the movie (a movie director making a pact with a vampire) seemed to be something I would relish as both a movie fan and a fan of the vampire genre.
Alas, Merhige's SHADOW OF THE VAMPIRE is a slight, only occasionally successful movie full of characters that are only partially drawn.  John Malkovich's F.W. Murnau is barely fleshed out at all, and his scenes with Dafoe's Max Schreck often seem to only consist of him yelling at his star to stop killing the film crew.
The movie starts well (extremely well), with Merhige setting up his situation by keeping Shreck off-screen until just the right moment.  But once Shreck is there and the joke is played out, there's not much left for the movie to do.  And the structure falls apart completely.  Scenes seem to be disjointed, having no connection with the movie as a whole.  Events happen with absolutely no setup, and we are often left to wonder how we got from point A to point C without any B to lead the way.  It makes me wonder if perhaps production problems or post-production editing got in the way.
Dafoe is truly delicious as Shreck and stands out above the otherwise forgettable cast (including comedian Eddie Grizzard, who has very little fun in his role as Nosferatu's romantic lead).  Dafoe has fun in his role as a vampire-turned-actor, but again, he is hampered by a screenplay structure that leaves his character in the shadows.
One scene truly is a standout and shows the potential of what the movie could have been.  Nosferatu's producers are sitting on the set downing a bottle of schnapps, when Schreck happens by.  He joins them for a drink as they question him (they think jokingly, but he thinks seriously) about what it's like to be a vampire.  In this one scene, we see the mistaken-identity possibility that Merhige seems to want to set up.  But more importantly, we see the pain and desperation that has led a once noble vampire to take a job as an actor.  The scene plays out beautifully, but then the movie rushes forward to confusing and unsatisfying conclusion.
SHADOW OF A VAMPIRE leaves many funny and even thought-provoking possibilities left unexplored.  It's a shame that Dafoe's bravura performance (and the incredible make-up job he sports) are lost in this minor effort.