The Weary Professor is right. I'm no western movie expert, as evidenced by the fact that I rank Hondo just below The Searchers in John Wayne's western canon. Some of the exchanges between Wayne and Paige are the most memorable ever to appear in cowboy cinema, and Sam the dog stands as one of the more memorable devices ever used to delineate his owner's character. That said, the film was compromised during shooting by the unfortunate 3-D process, which results in one shot being razor sharp and the next being out of focus, alternating throughout. It makes Hondo a bigger challenge to bring to Blu than How The West Was Won turned out to be, and, unfortunately, they blew it.

There was never going to be any cure for blurred 3-D compositions, but having just viewed the Blu-Ray, I don't think this film really was composed for widescreen. It may have been composed in such a way that widescreen projection was possible, but seen in that aspect ratio the compositions are obviously crowded and cramped. The lost vertical information in this case includes necessary head room and landscape that feels 'missing', and figures cut off distractingly around elbow height, leading to a claustrophobic experience. Westerns are often the best argument in favour of widescreen presentation, restoring the grandeur of landscape vistas lost in pan and scan vhs transfers, but in this instance the top and bottom information we have lost to the imposition of a matte letterbox is absolutely as destructive. Those who continue to take issue with the Weary Professor's opinion on this matter should get out their old fullscreen dvds and simply have a look: I don't think there's any doubt that what we've been given here is a badly compromised Blu-ray that cries out for a replacement edition. The proof is that THE COMPOSITIONS LOOK BAD in widescreen, and look right in full frame. And given the amount of space available on a Blu-Ray, there's no excuse for the fullscreen print not having been made available on the same disc. We've lost picture, but not only that, by zooming the image we've lost resolution, the latter being something this movie really can't afford.

In short, you aren't alone Professor. This release is a screw-up, and a bad one. I love widescreen, but this new trend toward shoehorning everything into widescreen just to fit our new TVs is every bit as destructive as the old practice of shearing the periphery of prints in order to get them to fit our old TVs. The fact is, in this case, rather than cutting out the grandeur of the vista, they've crowded the sky out over John Wayne's head. The effect is the same: to shrink the wide open spaces, and it really hurts the experience here. The framing is so tight that if the letterbox were any narrower the disc would go from disappointing to unwatchable.