Joanna Goins
REL-110-E02
Gandhi
Gandhi is a 1982 biographical film based on the life and death of Gandhi, who led the nonviolent resistance movement against British colonial rule in India during the first half of the 20th century. The film begins with Gandhi's assassination on 30 January 1948, and his funeral. After an evening prayer, Gandhi is helped out for his evening walk to meet greeters and admirers. One of the greeters shoots him point blank in the chest. Dignitaries from around the world attended his funeral. After the funeral the story go back 55 years. In 1983, Gandhi was thrown off a train in Africa for being an Indian. After this experience he begins to start a non-violent protest campaign for the rights of all Indians in Africa. The government finally recognizes rights for Indians. Gandhi then went back to India where he became a national hero. Gandhi continued to set up non-violent campaigns. Religious tensions between Hindus and Muslims erupt into nation-wide violence. Gandhi declared a hunger strike stating that he will not eat until the fighting stops. He becomes widely known as Mahatma, meaning great-souled. The fighting finally stops and the country divides by religion. Gandhi spends his last days trying to bring peace between the nations. He begins to anger his dissidents on both sides. Gandhi traveled into troubled areas, conducting prayer vigils and fasts, but on one of these visits in 1948 he was assassinated by a Hindu extremist at the end of the film that recalls the opening of the movie. As the man shoots Gandhi, the film fades to black and Gandhi voice is heard saying "Oh God". The audience then sees Gandhi's cremation and the film ended with a scene of Gandhi's ashes being scattered on the holy Ganga. After watching the movie I found that Hinduism beliefs played a huge part in this movie. Gandhi was Hindu and he believed in non-violence. He wanted freedom and peace among the different religions. He believed in treating people the way you want to be treated.