Being a long-time fan of the beloved Chronicles of Narnia by C.S. Lewis I was fearful of getting my hopes up too high with this big-budget motion picture of "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" but was ultimately pleased with how well it turned out and am not the least bit disappointed.

From the wintery wonderland to the budding of Spring, director Andrew Adamson, on his first live-action project, brought Narnia to life better than I ever could have envisioned it with enchanting sets, stunning cinematography and a magical yet subtle score; meeting my every expectation.

There of course were some understandable changes made to help the length and flow of the movie, as well as to add a bit more suspense to the already wonderful storyline, but all the important details remained, staying pretty much true to the book. I even felt that the film improved upon it because, as is the case in most children's, or even young adult books for that matter, there's never enough plot or character development (C.S. Lewis, respectively, left much to the imagination), but here they do.

The CGI is admittedly noticeable in spots (the fox, for instance, didn't look very real to me) but they obviously took great care to detail on Aslan and it definitely shows! They also chose a wonderful cast--my favorite performances being Mr. Tumnus the faun, Jadis the White Witch, and the Pevensie children (albeit some of Lucy's crying did sound a little forced)--and I'm personally grateful they chose relatively unknown actors.

As a side note, I'm greatly annoyed with all these comparisons to the Lord Of The Ring's and Harry Potter. In my eyes the only thing they each have in common is the fact that they all fall under the fantasy genre. Otherwise they're completely different films. And you honestly don't have to be religious to enjoy this movie. I myself am an athiest and relished every moment of this film... Interpret it whichever way you'd like for that was how it was intended to be viewed by the author himself! Also, there's only one epic battle scene and it contains no blood [hence the PG rating], so if violence is all you look for in a movie, this isn't for you! It's simply good old-fashioned storytelling that's destined to become a classic like the book.