Sweaty palms and an ever-present awkward silence interrupted by erratic and unintelligible squeals of two shy and squeaky voices.  There is nothing more anticipated or more feared than the first date. Dinner and movie and, if both survive, maybe a second date.  The one component of such a date is the movie choice - nothing too scary and nothing too obscene, but something just right: the perfect love story.  Although many times deemed as a "chic flic," a love story can make or break a date and, consequently, a relationship.  Casablanca is one of the greatest love stories of all time; it has all the elements of not only a quality film, but the extra details needed for a love story.  The story line and setting of Casablanca are the bases for the timeless quality of the film.  The setting of the movie has a great impact on its viewers, if the film is set in a foreign country there is an added aura of mystery and danger.  The fact that story takes place in Paris and mainly Casablanca adds to the romanticism of the movie.  Paris, "the city of lights," is considered to be a very romantic city and Casablanca is a very exotic location.  Those watching the film gain an added sense of wonder and excitement with foreign location, instead of the familiar sites of their homeland.  The time frame of the movie also adds to its fame.  Casablanca takes place during World War II and one major character, Victor Laslow, is in danger of being caught by the German army.  In the beginning of the story Rick, the main character, has to leave Paris because of the German threat.  The constant presence of army officials adds an element of danger to the film, therefore making every action of the characters even more meaningful because they are risking their lives for the sake of someone they love.  The time frame also adds to the viewer's identification with the movie.  Most everyone is familiar, especially at the time when the film was released, with the war. The thought of World War II affects people in different ways and bring back certain memories of loved ones lost to the war. The film was probably more embraced by its viewers than it would have been if the war had not been mentioned.  Adding to the aspect of danger is the element of drama, which gives the filmmaker the ability to play with the emotions of the audience.  This drama can be seen in the lines of the characters, such as: "we'll always have Paris" and "Here's looking at you kid."  These phrases not only add to the drama, but have become universal and add to the lasting popularity and remembrance of the film.  The major characteristic of the film that is responsible for this drama is the lighting.  The filmmakers were both limited and fortunate that the movie was filmed in black and white.  They were limited because they could not use the color of the settings or costumes to impact the movie in any way.  But they were fortunate because they were able to use the black and white to their advantage.  Casablanca is one of the most visually powerful movies there is.  The lighting on the set is so precise that, at first, it is not even noticed.  The movie contains unforgettable scenes that leave a lasting impression on the viewer.  Casablanca is a well-made film that transcends age, gender, and social and cultural barriers.  It is a classic that still brings us to tears every time we watch it. What makes this such a great love story is the ending.  The guy does not get the girl.  He goes through hell to save her and then tricks her into leaving the country with her husband.  He makes the ultimate sacrifice and watches his only true love fly away with another man. If the film had turned out any other way it would not have been such a success.  The story encompasses the kind of love that everyone wants to feel for someone - when you love someone enough to let them go.