Of course the acting, directing, cinematography, etc. of this movie are all, by near universal consensus (and I don't exclude myself), simply first-rate. The main point of disagreement seems to be how necessary those VERY slow wedding scenes were to setting the backdrop for the rest of the movie.
My rejection of the movie as a thing of worth is based on one specific element: the Russian roulette scenes.
When I saw the movie, I was extremely moved, indeed haunted, by as much as, if not more than, anything else in the movie, the Russian roulette scenes. They are so powerful: de Niro's character helping the others pull through, the daring escape, their effect on Walken's character, who by the end of the movie is completely emotionally numbed/scarred by them, etc.
The movie portrayed these scenes so convincingly, and my own personal knowledge of the Vietnam war was sufficiently sparse, that I took it for granted, without even a second thought, that these scenes portrayed a phenomenon that was a legitimate part of the Vietnam War experience. And the thought that this was another of the horrors that U.S. soldiers had to face was very disturbing to me and lasted with me for a long time.
I found out years later that the Russian roulette scenes were a total fantasy, a fiction, a fake, a fabrication. That such scenes rarely, if ever, took place in the Vietnam War.
So what is the message of this movie? How I am supposed to treat seriously a movie which takes such pains to build up a realistic group of characters, sent to a horrible war that really did take place, come back and have to deal with real-life situations of apple-pie America, when a central pillar of the experience of the movie is total fantasy-land?
It is as if, instead of having the Russian roulette scenes, the movie had portrayed the soldiers being abducted by UFO's for a time, and showing the impact such an episode would have on them. Sound ridiculous? Of course it is! But therefore so too is inter-weaving a bizarre, surrealistic experience of Russian roulette, which bears no more relation to reality than a UFO escapade.
I object to the deception. I seriously doubt that I am the only person who was thus misled by the movie. It is simply lazy and manipulative to concoct such a fictitious scenario. Russian roulette, a forced game where the stakes are life and death and the outcome is dictated by the roll of the dice (so to speak), is a cheap, easy, artificial way to inject a sense of morbid tension and high drama into the movie.
If the movie-makers wanted to show us a movie which portrays the horrors of the Vietnam War, then please show us a movie which portrays the horrors of the Vietnam War! not a movie which portrays the horrors of your imagination! Was there not enough material of what the U.S. soldiers went through in Vietnam that you had to fabricate this Russian roulette nonsense?
I see one reviewer after another speak of the "realism" of this movie. In light of what I've written here, I just don't get it.