There's so many things wrong with this movie that the only way I could review it is to compare the main character (Tony Starks Jr.) in the Iron Man movies as portrayed by Robert Downey Jr. with the way Seth Rogen portrays Britt Reid (Green Hornet).

Tony Starks is cocky, brash and obnoxious.  But he is also brilliant, wealthy, a guy who can invent and create cool gadgets, has some father issues to deal with and he's dying.  It made you want to keep watching how he would resolve these issues, whether he would die or fall madly in love with his assistant Ms. Potts who he really cares for.  I really could identify with this character.  Who wouldn't want to be brilliant, wealthy and have an assistant as beautiful as Ms. Potts? It was fun watching the Iron Man movies.

Seth Rogen's portrayal of Britt Reid is also cocky, brash and obnoxious but he's also loud-mouthed with a Peter Pan syndrome to boot. The only enviable quality he has is that he's rich but I suspect that's so he can indulge in his childish behavior.  That's OK as a starting premise for a character.  After all, I like to keep watching a movie to see how the character develops.

[SPOILER] However,  there's a scene where Britt Reid has a fight with his assistant Kato.  Keep in mind that Kato, in prior scenes, would dispose of much deadlier opponents with ease and here he was having a difficult time fighting with Reid - who in previous scenes would run away from opponents - didn't make any sense.  OK - I thought, maybe he'll get the living daylights beaten out of him by Kato and this would transform him, change him in some positive way.  But no, both of them fall into a swimming pool during the fight (again, given Kato's fighting prowess in previous scenes, this didn't make any sense).  Of course, Kato can't swim and instead of a chance for the Kato character to help transform and move the movie in a positive direction, Reid saves Kato and we're left with the same Britt Reid character.  Eventually, I stopped watching as the movie was becoming too tedious to watch.

There was nothing fun about watching this movie and in the end I was annoyed at the character - made me want to beat the living daylights out of him for making me waste my time watching this.

It's a shame that Christoph Waltz' talent is wasted in this awful movie.  He was so good as Col. Landa in Inglourious Basterds.

Rent this movie (cheaply) if you have nothing better to do.