This could have been such a great event. Come on Wrestlemania 25! It's a good thing Wrestlemania 20 delivered because if it hadn't, this one could have been twice as baffling. There were opportunities for great turns and story cappers - none took place.

The event started with the Money In The Bank ladder match. Participants were Mark Henry, Kane, CM Punk, Christian, Finlay, and, I believe, Kofi Kingston. Looking back at the previous MITB matches, this one wasn't quite as strong. A few very cool spots, but the most memorable thing about it was that it featured something plaguing most of the subsequent matches: remarkably unremarkable finales.

After this opener, Kid Rock was allowed to torture the ears of the audience with some musical laxative. It could be that the audience indeed hurt its ears during this snoozer. Why? Let me put it this way: judging from the behaviour of the audience, one could think most of the 70 000 people weren't there at free will.

After those interminable minutes, the much-dreaded Diva Battle Royal rose its ugly - or very pretty -  face. I'm tired of commenting on these things, but if there are indeed people out there enjoying such things, well, god bless, enjoy.

Now, I expected not much, if anything, from the Jericho Vs. Legends match, but it did really well! Believe it or not, after Jericho eliminated Piper and Snuka, him and Steamboat put on a show that had more fire than much of the other matches - and the audience was into it, unlike during the rest of the show.
Eventually, after beating everyone up, Jericho wanted Mickey Rourke in the ring. And, god honest truth, I wanted Jericho to beat him up, and if only because the booking team stuck Chris Jericho into such a darn goofy match at Wrestlemania! And again, the unremarkable ending: you could literally feel the audience thinking "this was it?"

Matt Hardy Vs. Jeff Hardy was one of the few matches I had high expectations for. And why not? It took place under "Extreme Rules" - which is just a fancy way of saying "No DQ" - and if there is a team good at that, then by god it's the Hardys. I just don't know; like so many other matches of the night, it just felt slow and staged, and the snoring of the audience heavily enforced this feeling. Make no mistake, it was a good match, but didn't come anywhere near the performance of the classic TLC matches. Which is amazing, you would think that, as brothers, they would harmonise better.

JBL Vs. Rey Mysterio for the IC Title.
On paper, this is not a good combo (assuming there is indeed a man capable of making JBL look good), but stranger pairings worked out, so why not? Guess what, we never find out! JBL comes out, announces the "most dominant victory at Wrestlemania ever". Rey delivers the 619, the splash, and it was over in 20 seconds. A little brawl before the match officially started made no sense, and was just off-putting.
After the "match", JBL made an announcement I couldn't care less for, but find out yourself.
This made zero sense.
Oh, and by the way, one audience member held up a sign saying "Jelly Belly Loser", and I agree. Lay off the carbs, you bloater!

Shawn Michaels Vs. Undertaker.
Finally, a true Wrestlemania classic, on paper. But this time, this time, dear reader, it truly was! The side aspect of this story about Dark Vs. Light was slightly irritating, but it doesn't matter, this was a match for the ages.
Both men battled for 30 minutes, and it was the only (!) time the audience was really on fire. It never dragged, and the tension was just palpable. The ending could have been a tad shorter, but that is a truly minor quibble. Even though I was sitting at home, I couldn't help but applaud a few seconds afterwards.

Following this superb WM match was a Triple Threat bound to dissapoint. Occasionally, something can be more than the sum of its parts, but any match featuring Big Show and John Cena is bound to NOT be more. Who came up with the idea of squeezing Big Show into this whole enchillada? During the match, I kept thinking "now, this could start to be good if that 7 foot klump of clay didn't continue to disrupt the pace."
This match just rambled on incoherently, until all three men fumbled an already unremarkable finale. It was all the more lame because you really expected at least *some* sort of story twist or turn or capper or *anything*. In the end, the audience was too bored to even celebrate the victory of Cena.

I was actually looking forward to Triple H Vs. Randy Orton, simply because their feud was intense, and it could have been a big payoff. But, first of all, let me get one thing out of my mind right now. If you have a feud where both men attacked each other in most vicious and brutal ways, and each one of them is just waiting to get his hands around the throat of the other at WM, surely you won't set up a match where the rules of disqualification are stricter than ever?
Well, this is the result of doing just that. There was no twist, no interference, no nothing. It was lame, simply put. Lame, tame and ordinary.

And, honestly, this is the biggest sin; not that the matches were slow or illogical or tame - they were ordinary. At Wrestlemania, much less at Wrestlemania's 25th anniversary, you don't serve the ordinary. The audience expects the extra-ordinary, and when the people don't get it, a crowd of 70 000 is affecting the atmosphere of an event more severely than a crowd of 20 000.
Seriously, during most of the event, the audience was just dead. Dead! This was actually the most baffling audience behaviour I have ever witnessed. It was like the audience didn't warm up properly, then they were let down by one match, and the subsequent let-downs came so quick in a row that they never caught up with digesting all of them.

The only two people producing something extra-ordinary tonight were Shawn Michaels and The Undertaker, their match was indeed more than exquisite, even for a Wrestlemania.
The rest of it was forgettable, pure and simple.