It's amazing how some of the best movies in any given year have been accomplished on very low budgets, but through sheer craft and artistry, easily best 99% of Hollywood productions.  Strapped is a case in point.  The lead character, a young male hustler, services a client in a non-descript urban apartment complex.  Strangely, he seems unable to find his way out of the Kafkaesque building, repeatedly running into different sorts of gay males who want to sample his wares.  Each of the successive clients seems to represent a different pathway of the gay lifestyle, posing many questions and conundrums along the way.  Some are ridiculously closeted, stuck in false, married lives.  Some are very liberated, but strangely unhappy.  Different sexual tastes are contrasted: aggressive, anal passive, bizarre things.  In the end the protagonist overcomes his own gay demons by allowing himself true romantic affection, perhaps.  The symbolism reminds me of the fine poem by Henri Cole, entitled Homosexuality, where the gay life is symbolized as a duck stuck in a chimney!

  The great strength of Strapped lay in its fine dialogue and characterization.  The script is dotted with literary and poetic allusions and various gay homages.  The fantastic artistry is made evident by more than just the frame trope of the labyrinth, but also much other symbolism and subtext along the way.  For instance, the metallic griffin stolen from the first client seems to symbolize sexual liberation.  There is some fine directing skill at work too.  In one scene, their is a vessel put to trap leaking rain water, and the elapsement of time is shown by empty and full shots.  Most importantly, the lead actor is exceedingly loveable.

  The only negative I might find about the movie is some of the graphic sexual content, but I guess that comes with the territory.  Plus a sort of goofy poem in the last scene.  Altogether, Strapped is a charming, thoughtful movie that should be watched by anyone who is gay or simply curious about alternative lifestyles.