THE LOVELY BONES

  BY: PETER JACKSON'S

It was someday in December when Susie Salmon was murdered. Only fourteen-years-old she unsuspectingly falls victim to a vicious serial killer. But that is where the story begins. She presents her story as the narrator and observer of how life changes in her family where a murder takes place. When she finds herself in a place that is magical and mysterious to her somewhere between heaven and earth she begins to reach out to the family she left behind. She has a difficult time accepting her own death and moving on to her Heaven As for her father continues searching to find the MONSTER that took his 1st daughter away. Their neighbor Mr. Harvey is a serial killer with deep emotional problems. He is a danger to any young girl or woman. And when a neighbor begins acting suspicious the father and sister move closer to finding an answer.

  After watching the movie lovely bones I have both dislikes and likes about the film. Am give you both like and dislikes about the movie. After watching the movie so many thoughts came rushing threw my head. Like one of my few first thoughts was that it was an actually reasonable film it was good but not that wonderful but good just somewhat right. But I can't lie I had a strong reaction towards the movie just because watching the weirdly somewhat disturbing serial killer share with Susie. Her last minutes of life even though it doesn't go into details like in the book. I felt there was too much details missing from the book yet I can't front it still moved me. Like if you really get into the movie you can actually feel what the characters are feeling but I believe it would have been nice to see the family be represented a bit better it was an okay movie just wasn't what I suppose it would have been like take you on a emotional ride like the novel did.

  The reason why I also disliked the movie was because all the visual in Susie's fantasy world served no purpose to the story and really threw off the whole focus of the film which is the family drama which came back on being Susie's death. Just when the story starts of what a family is trying to stay together after the death of a loved one and the story of the serial killer trying to stay neutral gets good the film cuts off to show Susie running around in her fantasy world and it would have been nice if the plot of the fantasy world and the real world connected with each other but it didn't in no point at all. You would think Susie might try to reach out from the afterlife to try and contact her family like in any other similar movie but it never did. Which this is when we question why are we even seeing the whole fantasy world at all? Yea its good parts but it served no purpose whatsoever. As well I didn't like fact the mother disappears through mostly half of the movie and almost with no reason at all.

  But one of my favorite characters was MR.Havery the reason why was because as the creepy rapist/serial killer neighbor. This antagonist plays the very dam well definition of a psychotic serial killer. What made me like his acting and gave away his personality of a rapist and sick person was his eyes to me. But most people saw him as the silent and calm neighbor but when you actually look into his eyes you can read him off it just sends a chill down your spine. I can't really describe what I saw in them but it was just a reading about him. If you saw his character in real life you'd really would feel unsafe around that person that's how great his acting was for me.