Wether if everything depicted in this movie it's all completely real or an episode far away from reality seems to be the big deal with this movie. If you want to stick educational interests and add morale nuances to it, fine.  Indeed the title suggests that this is what happens with kids, in an open,  general statement. It is a powerful tool to tell kids to watch out and be  careful with drugs and unsafe sex. 
But you could also see it as an  out-of-the-average success. After all, if we are to take this movie's facts  as real and average, most teens in America and the rest of the developed  world would be infected with AIDS, addicts to a multitude of drugs and  making their families disintegrate. This is more likely to represent a  dramatic moment in the life of some teens that might not represent the  whole teen world. It can be documentary if we look into some specific  groups of teens growing up in frantic, highly developed cities like New  York. That's it. The whole debate of "kids" showing what average  kids do today is a little absurd. 
Instead I'll focus on the technique  and the mastery of filming, character developing and storytelling. The film  is powerful and delivers a high level of impact because of this as well as  for the raw, rude images. The mixed elements became a singular whole, in  the same way blacks, hispanics and whites team up against others or to have  fun. The melting pot culture can be felt in the story almost as good as in  the way the movie is done.
At the bottom line, this is a movie that can  be experienced by such a wide range of different people. Teens can relate  to some or even all events depicted. Relaxed parents can star thinking they  do not care enough for their babies. Artists and creators can witness a  movie developed with flawless, accurate skills and with a  hardly-seen-lately-in-movies punch and thrill. It deserves to be a popular  film in all senses. Whether if you can relate to the facts or not, watch  this. And make people in your life watch it. It can be for information,  emotion or love for the movies. Or just for the hell of it.