I'm amazed that so many people can blindly miss the subtleties of this movie.  While it works as a brainless, enjoyable gung-ho piece of sci-fi cum war hokum it's also quite a clever piece of satire, taking a pot-shot squarely aimed at the kind of control that governments, regardless of ideology, exert over their populace.  While the spoofed propaganda TV commercials most obviously display the parody in this movie, one can also see it littered throughout the movie.  The director has chosen to ape Nazism as it's an extreme view of what can happen when a government has a strong grip on its people, because of his childhood experience being under Nazism and because by cloaking the heroes of the movie in Nazism he shows a self-mocking sense of ironic humor.
Like...
Johnny Rico being a blonde, blue-eyed Aryan.  While Van Dien's abilities as an actor are frequently ridiculed at there's no doubt that he is perfect for this movie's take on the character.  He *looks* like an actor straight from WWII German and Soviet propaganda films and indeed that is exactly what he's supposed to appear like.
Ok let's clear up some other points:-
BAD ACTING:-
It's not bad acting.  Bad acting implies that the actor does not bring fully to life the character he/she is playing or overplays the part ect ect.  The characters in ST are supposed to be parodies, tongue-in-check cardboard cutouts.  Given that all the actors in ST play their roles pretty well.  That they are all very pretty (especially Dina Meyer) is the intention.  Like any good propaganda it shows people whom we'd like to be or be with trying to become citizens and succeeding, whilst following the 'state line'.  The love triangle is thrown in there for entertainment value and it works in a cheesy way.
DIALOGUE:-
I fail to see how intelligent people can so miss the point of the dialogue.  It's cheesy because it's parody, because it apes political propaganda and laughs at it.  The dialogue is perfectly suited to the mood of the film as a whole.  There are very few wasted lines in this movie and I won't waste *my* time trying to point them out to you if you didn't 'get' them.
STUPID PLOT:-
Guess what?  Yep here comes the parody bit again.  People point out that the military tactics in this movie are laughable and they are perfectly correct.  But...  Don't you think the military tactics are just too stupid to be there as a result of incompetence or sloppiness on the part of Verhoeven - I mean it doesn't take a budding Guderian, Napoleon or a Sun Tze to know that just using machine guns when you have orbital nukes, cluster bombs, mines, armor ect is just plain stupid.  But the whole point of the film is self-parody at governments, who see the people as their tool, to be manipulated and scarified for the 'greater good' of the nation, or in this case the species.
LACK OF RESPECT FOR ROBERT HEINLEIN'S BOOK:-
I feel many distracters of the film simply do so because they expected a faithful recreation of the book.  While that's disappointing for you try and see the film for its merits.  It really only borrows from Heinlien's book in superficial terms; to set the scene, the basic plot and basic outlines of the characters.  Surely you can see that it never was an attempt to seriously follow the book.  Instead Verhoeven chose to follow his own path and make his own movie.  Try and see it for that...
Anyway to sum up;  the movie is loud, entertaining, gory, packed full of good looking leads and sci-fi fx, but also very subtle and clever.  People who dismiss this movie out of hand as mindless nonsense completely miss the point.  Godzilla is mindless nonsense.  Independence Day is mindless nonsense.
Starship Troopers instead is a very well-made, clever movie, which has a tongue-in-cheek gibe at the way governments can and will manipulate their populace for the 'good of the state'.  I wonder whether any American hollywood director would have had the balls to make it this way.