I'm not really sure why this movie's being panned as severely as it is.  Maybe the dense plot put off those looking for an action epic.  Maybe the passionate but ultimately destructive relationship put off those looking for a formulaic happy-ending fluff romance.  Maybe these people just don't like thinking during movies, because this movie doesn't lay everything out for you and you have to work to figure out character motivations, plot, symbolism, etc.  But to me, all those things that this movie isn't only adds to its richness and beauty.
The story is told half in flashbacks, half in present tense, with the beginning a sort of bridge between the two: Story A, Juliette Binoche's nurse caring for the mysterious English Patient, begins at the end of Story B, where Ralph Fiennes (on an expedition in the desert) falls madly in love with a married woman (Thomas).  Later, Story C also interweaves with A and B, telling of Willem Dafoe's bitter thief and his connection with the English Patient.  This storytelling device is probably what makes the movie brilliant (although the acting, romance and cinematography are hardly to be treated lightly).  
Despite technical brilliance, it is The English Patient's examination of emotions that gives it its heart; the sheer passion of the movie makes me cry every time I see it.  And the characters are fascinating, much like Anthony Minghella's later work, The Talented Mr Ripley.  No one here can be called a caricature, with the possible exception of Katherine; while you may not understand everything they do, part of the fun is piecing together their actions into complex individuals.
You should be warned that you do see a bit more of both Thomas and Binoche than you perhaps would like to, and Almasy and Katherine DO engage in adultery, but if you can overcome any objections to either of those issues and keep your mind open, you may be as moved as I was.  The English Patient is a heart-breaking, passionate, powerful, dense, confusing, mesmerizing, extraordinary, and simply beautiful movie.