Starting with the positive, this film looks incredible. Wonderful art direction, lighting, character design and animation. A real treat for the eyes.

The rest of it left me wishing this had been a silent film. The basic story is good but the dialogue would have benefitted from some re-writing. The script left me with the impression it was written by someone who watches too much television and never reads. I give them credit for having the strength to fly in the face of the idea that comedy should be creative, unpredictable and original but ultimately it was not the best choice. For example, on a long journey a character asking "are we there yet?" is so predictable and cliche it should always be avoided.

The characters don't grow or undergo development beyond where we left them in the first film. In fact the message of this film negates the message of the first (outer appearances are less important than what's inside): here we find that Fiona wants the green-skinned ogre even though Shrek does not change inside. The donkey also has not grown; he's still annoying to a degree that makes Jar Jar Binks (Star Wars) seem intelligent, eloquent and welcome. I enjoyed Puss in Boots, a strong character and great addition to the cast. The funniest moments were all his. (The hairballs gag was great up until the point the directors felt it necessary to explain it away by having the cat say "hairballs".)

Overall this film took the first film's weaknesses (pop-cultural references, pop songs, crude gags) and expanded on them while rejecting the first film's strengths (originality, strong characters, theme). Apparently the references to other films, television shows and media events are "for the grown-ups" but I was left with the feeling they couldn't think of anything funny to fill the moment so they were forced to add another pointless reference that never serves the story or characters. I'm not sure why a character doing something that's done in another film or TV show is supposed to be funny; it certainly isn't original.

I'm sure kids will love this, it simply is a beautiful piece of animation. The rest of us will be left wondering why a sequel to something so original was considered necessary. I would have given this three stars but the cynical marketing (as others have pointed out) at the beginning of the disc is beneath Dreamworks and worth a negative star. I'm not sure why they sunk to it. I hope one of their representatives will read some of these comments and think twice before taking advantage of their customers on future releases.