I am giving this review 3 stars because I know Amazon will apply it to both of the two versions of this movie they sell, the R-rated one and the unrated (probably NC-17) one. Quite simply, the R-rated one (which I saw) is maybe 2 stars, and (according to my wife, a native Mexican) the unrated is 4-5 stars.  Hence, an average of 3 stars.
My wife, a professor of Spanish Literature at a major US university, first saw this movie at a film festival and came home to tell me I had to see it. Well, by & by it came out on DVD and I rented it, picking up the R rate one, not realizing there were two versions. Comparing the technical data, it appears there are 5-6 minutes cut from the original (unrated) version for this R version. As we watched the movie, my wife almost immediately began saying "huh, what's going on?" Almost all of the most explicit scenes were cut. Based upon what my wife said of what they were (I have yet to see the full version), the first few expurgations were of only minor relevance to the plot, but the very final one (most of the scene in the cabana during the last night the boys spent with Luisa on the beach) is absolutely critical to understanding the whole point of the movie, and what happened in the conclusion. Obviously I don't want to say what happened & what was said in that scene missing from the R-rated version, since it would ruin the movie, and I don't want to do that to anyone. As it is, watching this R-rated version has ruined it for me -- sure I can go and look for the unrated one, but it won't be the same now that I already know what will happen.
Put simply, the R-rated version has a totally incoherent ending due to the cuts made to achieve the R rating. I found it completely unsatisfying, and my wife (who loved the full version, which I presume to be the one on the "unrated" DVD) said she would also have had a totally different opinion of hte movie had she seen only the R-rated one. The unrated is not for the sexually squeamish apparently -- the movie shows male sexuality in a way that Hollywood never would; remember the near NC-17 rating some movie recently almost got because it showed even just a male star's bare behind? -- but for the most part the sexuality is apparently "realistic" and plot-driven, not gratuitous.
In summary, my wife, who has seen both, would say that if you are willing to "risk" offense at the explicit sexual scenes of the unrated verson, it is a must-see; but if you are nervous and would opt for the R-rated version, don't bother, it is a waste of time. My wife attended the film festival screening (ie unrated version) with a number of colleagues and students, and apprently at least one of the more conservative undergraduates was a bit put off by the masterbatory scene at the beginning, among others.
A couple other notes on the movie - I found the use of voice-over narration entirely too heavy-handed (my wife is more forgiving of it however). And the quality of the subtitle translation is poor - I speak basic spanish but need subtitles to follow a movie completely, so I tend to be listening and reading at the same time when watching movies such as this. At times the disconnect between what the dialogue and the subtitles said was bewildering.