As a huge fan of the first two Superman movies, I'm glad that Brian Singer decided to pick up Superman Returns with those two movies. However, there were some continuity mistakes which no one really seemed to mind. Mind you, I did mind and it bothered me a lot but not enough as to not enjoy this movie. We are led to believe that Lex Luther has never visited the Fortress of Solitude before, but he has. He visited it in Superman II.

  Overall, this movie is a joy ride and it will be enjoyed by everyone, even women and older people. That was one of Brian Singer's goals. This movie has drama, angst, turmoil, a love triangle and (too much) humour by Lex Luther. This has always been one of the drawbacks of the Superman movies. They make Lex a comedian. This is why the Superman movies are never taken seriously. If you look at the Smallville TV series and/or read the comic books, Lex has never been a comedian. And even though Lex is Superman's greatest enemy, that doesn't mean that we have to see Lex in all the Superman movies.

  For me, the highlight of this movie is when Superman flies to the sun to recharge himself. Talk about a boost! Up, up and away!

"Whether you're an immigrant or you're born in the heartland," said Singer, "at some point we all feel like an alien."

Of the famed Man of Steel, first introduced to comic book readers in the 1930s, Singer said, "He's kind of the ultimate immigrant. He comes from a foreign place, adapts to the value system, and has a special relationship with his heritage."

That might sound like heavy baggage for a film about a superhero, but Singer wouldn't be the first to read deeper meanings into comic book adventures.

Singer sees Superman, created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster -- two Jews who were sons of immigrants -- as a Judeo-Christian hero, part Moses, part Jesus. Like Moses, Superman is the boy dispatched down the metaphoric river to be discovered in the cornfields, if not the reeds, of the Midwest. Like Jesus, he has a kind of doubling with his father, voiced in the new film as in the 1978 Superman by the late Marlon Brando, who says, "The son becomes the father, and the father becomes the son."

Superman first entered popular culture when the Nazis were beginning to assert their power in Germany. He "never cleared up the problems in Europe," Singer said. "He handled small problems; he served by example."

Over the decades, however, through numerous incarnations in comic strips, television shows, and films, Superman began tackling worldwide catastrophes, as he does in Singer's new film.

...Superman Returns is a film with a long and troubled past. Over the last decade, numerous actors and directors were attached to the film, whose budget, like its superhero, seemed to know no bounds. None of that history worried Singer, who got a chance to reshape the storyline. It also helped that he used some of his regular repertory of actors, such as Spacey, playing yet another notable villain: Lex Luthor.

While Singer wants as broad an audience as possible to enjoy the film, he particularly wants "older people and women to have an emotional experience," he said.

Credits go to Robert David Jaffee, (a contributing writer to the Jewish Journal of Greater Los Angeles, where this article first appeared) for most of this Review.