Wow...how did this movie get such high scores from some of you?

Let me first start off with whats good about this movie...visually it's stunning (the DVD transfer at times isnt good though), the way it was shot, the angles, the colors, everything about it is breathtaking to see. It's also got a good cast who trys to make this movie good (but sadly can't).

Now on to the bad. Oh man where to start...

First there's no real story or plot to speak of, you get tiny bits here and there but not enough to make it all coherent. At one point you think the movie is going to pick up and start with some sort of story or plot, only to have it fizzle out the very next scene. Oh look there might be a love story here...nope it's gone now. Oh look it might be a revenge story...nope that fizzled out also. Hey this might be about Blueberry trying to keep the indians and whites at peace...nope thats not it either. It trys to do so much but the director has no idea or clue how to do it on screen. He would make an amazing director of photography, but he makes one hell of a horribe directer. Had this movie had any type of structure, any tpye of a real story or plot it would have been wonderful...but it doesn't and it isn't.

Then you have the crazy special effects that take over roughly within the last 40 minutes (or so it seems at least). They make no sense, they are not explained at all, and they look crappy most of the time, it pulls you right out of what ever tiny bit of story you might have found to keep you interested up until that point of the movie. It's like the director got high as a kite, and whatever he saw when he was blazed he put on screen, again it doesn't work and there's WAY to much of it.

Also it just feels like at times that some scenes are just...there. They serve no purpose, they have no meaning, they are just there to look pretty, it feels random and crappy, again it's something that just doesn't work.

The only reason I gave this movie a 1 (other then the fact that you can't give it anything lower) is that again it looks amazing, otherwise it's 100% crap, stay far, far away from it, don't buy it, if you HAVE TO SEE IT, rent it, trust me you'll thank me later.