Out of all the Pokemon movies released in America, this is the one that bugs me a little. 4Kids Entertainment have watered down Mewtwo's personality, and the irony of it all is that out of ALL the Pokemon anime characters, Mewtwo is the most human, even though he's a Pokemon. That is, in the Japanese version. The first [thing] that 4Kids did to Mewtwo Strikes Back was changing the beautiful and haunting orchestral score that was in the Japanese version. Instead, they added in their own little MIDI track, which isn't SO bad compared to their later work on future projects, but that's not saying much.
The next thing they did wrong was altering Mewtwo's personality somewhat. Instead of the soul-searching, philosophical Mewtwo that pondered it's existence in the Japanese version, we now get a "I am the most powerful Pokemon ever! Fear me and my great power!" Mewtwo in the English version. Plus, the English voice actor that does Mewtwo's voice doesn't sound quite as threatening or frightening as he did in the japanese version, but at least he did OKAY.
 The only thing 4Kids did right was paying the japanese Pokemon animation studio, Shogakukan, to re-animate a few scenes to make them look better.
 Anyway, on this DVD we get a bit of extras, including the never before seen 'World of Pokemon' segment which introduces people to, what else? Pokemon.
We also get to see the short film, Pikachu's Vacation, which is VERY silly and Loony Tunes-esque(Heck, 4Kids redid the music to make it sound JUST like a Bugs Bunny cartoon!). 4Kids made some changes, but they weren't as major as the ones they did to the main film.
There's also a 'Origin of Mewtwo' segment which is quite lacking, considering that we only get to see LESS THAN A HALF of the whole thing! (Luckily they released the 'uncut' version on the Mewtwo Returns DVD)
There's some other stuff on this DVD too, like a directors commentary that isn't very informative, a music video of M2M(which, along with the song that's in the movie, has nothing REMOTELY close in common with this movie), and a trailer for the 2nd Pokemon movie.
But one question left is: Why didn't they put the japanese version on here? Hmm...
If you aren't a Pokemon fan, this movie probably won't change your mind about the franchise, but then again... IF they would put the original version on here for once, maybe it would.