Chuck Palahniuk has a huge following and I'm one of those who read and/or listen to his words.  After reading CHOKE, I listened to the book on CD and was impressed by Palahniuk's reading and interview which followed.  Unfortunately, I was quite disappointed in the DVD for a number of reasons which I'll briefly describe.  For a film that was less than 90 minutes in length, it felt long in keeping my interest.  The acting was inconsistent although the characters were well developed, and I found myself wishing Sam Rockwell, not the character Victor Mancini, would actually choke and be removed from the set.  I wanted Anjelica Hutson, not the character Ida Mancini, to  walk out of the home and let someone else take the bed.  As the younger Ida, I felt she was no younger than the elder character, just dressed more darkly to convince us of her dark personality.  Paige Marshall as Kelly Macdonald worked well and the characters emotions were evident in each scene.  I thought that Beth was so benign that she could have been represented by a different actress for each of her hair styles.  Brad William Henke as Denny was so believable, especially as he caressed his rocks.  Joel Grey was superb as a stalking sexual addict in recovery.  I guess I just preferred the men in shorts in this film.  For me, the weakness of this film was in the delivery of a very serious message which was spoonfed at the end, demonstrating a weakness in the script's success in conveying the storyline on it's own.  Perhaps if I had not been familiar with Palahniuk's original work, I would not be so critical, but I can't undo what's been done.  If you have the time and interest in seeing how sexual addiction, human frailties, the symbiotic relationship between a mother and her son, lusting for love, and the reasons Victor Mancini works in a puritanical Colonial American theme park and chokes for rebirthing, monetary compensation and emotional fulfillment, then I'd recommend reading or listening to the novel instead of the film.  If you only want to spend 90 minutes, then watch the film and use your imagination.