This is a truly great work of art that is also a medium for the Buddha's teachings.

Zen is a school of Buddhism that traditionally does not rely on words or letters and is based on the "mind to mind" transmission of the master's teaching to the student.

Many excellent reviews have covered the wonderful story line and the cinematic qualities of the film.  I would like to make a few comments on the Buddhist and Zen teaching elements of the film.

1.  The setting -- Buddha was enlightened under a tree and the natural world serves as the context for many Buddhist teachings.  The great Japanese Zen Master, Dogen, wrote essays on the lives of mountains and rivers and non-sentient beings.

2.  Cycles -- The seasonal cycle in the film is symbolic of the cycle of life with an old man, a child, youth, young lovers, parents, and old man again.  Only if we live, as Dogen said, in Being/Time can we transcend these cycles.

3.  Karma -- The child, because of his choice or his propensity kills a fish and more... Every decision and mysterious propensity leads to consequences.

4. The Island temple and the raft -- The small temple is on a drifting island connected to the shore by a raft indicating the impermanence even of the Master's abode and the refuge.  A question from Zen point of view is -- Where is Buddha?

5. The Master -- He teaches with few words -- typical of Zen tradition -- teaches by example.  (Actually... Zen masters are blabbermouths who did anything to teach their students that they thought would work.  Existence is the ultimate blaberbody).

6. The Gateless Gate -- One of the two great Zen Koan (cases studies for contemplation) collection is called in English "The Gateless Gate".  To reach the boat from the shore and to reach the Master's room from the bedroom there is a door but no wall.

What is reality?  Is there any real separation?

7.  Animal teachings -- A fish, a rooster, a cat, rocks, falling leaves, snow, water and waves, the sky, and mountains all play roles in the teaching process.  Does a little fish have Buddha nature or not?

8.  Skillful Means -- In Zen tradition there is dynamic and powerful teaching, when necessary, using shouts, hitting, and dynamic dialogues and any other means.  The Master uses a poor cat's tail to write the sutra on the deck of porch of the temple.  There is more but you must see this movie...

9.  No eyes, no ears, no tongue, no body, no mind.  no seeing, no hearing, no tasting, no touching, no thinking  -- This line from the Heart Sutra is a core teaching of Buddhism -- especially Zen Buddhism.  In the most haunting scene in the movie, the Master's eyes and mouth are covered with paper -- what does this mean to you?  Has reality been cut or is this a new reality?

Spring Summer Fall Winter Spring.  Where is it and when does it begin and end?