Plot: An old out of shape, ugly, and tired cop is ask to take a witness through 16 blocks of traffic, bums, prostitutes, bodegas and nail salons, so he can get to the grand jury and testify in an important case.  Sounds easy, except for the bum part.  The hard part is that the cop is Bruce Willis and that witness is Mos Def.  So you gotta expect that their going to be stop by fans of Die Hard, Sin City, and Def's album The New Danger....

Synopsis:  It's always good to see Bruce Willis playing a cop.  He doesn't do that as much as I like.  Between Hostage, Sin City, Moonlighting, and Die Hard 1-4, you just don't get enough of his tired cop character.  No one does it better than Bruce!!!  His character Jack Mosley gave you a glimpse of what would have a happen to John McClane if he ate to many donuts and started to gargle alcohol as mouth wash. Or if Hartigan ran away from Nancy at the end of Sin City.  All jokes aside, I really enjoyed this film.  It didn't break ground in film making or acting, but it was a solid movie by two lead characters.  Mos Def's character, Eddie Bunker, has to win an award for the most annoying characters in the history of movies.  The voice he chose for the role had me agitated as soon as he uttered a word.  Even though his character was annoying, you still felt sympathy for him.  Mos Def did a great job and was natural in the whole process.

 As for the story of the movie, there was just certain parts in the movie that didn't do it for me.  Like when the cops shot the bus filled with innocent people or when Bunker and Mosley escape for the umpteenth time from the cops.  You could hear me at my movie theater...I mean my job, saying yeah right.  Towards the last 1/3 of the movie I felt it dragged on.  Mos Def's yapping got me to the point, that I had to pause the movie and take a deep breath walk around the room.  That is the kind of voice people should use to punish prisoners.  Besides those minor scratches, this is your basic "chase" movie.

With David Morse doing an excellent job of that chasing.  Morse is always in a FBI, CIA, Secret Service, or Police role, and he is the man for the job. Always Solid and he doesn't disappoint.

Final Verdict:  Granted, this movie could have been called Die Hard 4, it was good story done with 3 great actors.  I even caught a little twinkle at the end of the movie.  I feel if a movie can draw you in and make one feel for the characters, then it has done it's job.  The story will hopefully follow suit, and this one did.  My main gripe is this type of movie has been done before.  Not that there is anything wrong with that, it's just that you have to do something to set your film apart from previous films in this genre.  Solid Flick nonetheless..

I give it 7.5 out of 10