Disregard what you've heard about the first movie - whether or not someone presents it as a masterpiece or the superior original of the franchise, it isn't necessary to watch it first before this movie. I should know, I came in at Ginger Snaps 2 - Unleashed. So I'm not going to rant and rave about how this is such a different movie apart from the original in an attempt to justify certain discrepancies - it has its own cult following to do that for me.

What I will tell you is that the movie stars Emily Perkins as Brigitte and only features the title character as a part of Brigitte's mind. This is not a complaint, as many fans will be quick to point out that Emily Perkins has rightfully earned her spotlight, as demonstrated here. Although initially, she comes across as stoic or paranoid, the actress brings up nearly every expression from the emotional spectrum in this movie. I'm pretty positive, in fact, that she is the only convincing actress in this despairing continuation of "Ginger Snaps" - and as she is a fairly obscure actress, those who enjoy her role here will become instant fans. Those who do not, will probably turn the movie off not far into it.

I'm of the variety who really got into Emily Perkins with this one. So enough talk about the star, here's what you need to know about the story. Brigitte is cursed (or rather, infected) with lycanthropy, and has gone into lonely seclusion while obsessing over beating it with increasingly higher doses of monkshood. Although it has slowed her transformation, her body has developed a resistance to it. Add to the equation that she is set upon by another werewolf (who she believes, wants to mate with her), and you have a pretty desperate if not despairing Brigitte. After escaping an encounter with said werewolf while overdosing on monkshood, Brigitte is taken (against her will) to a rehab center - removed from her monkshood.

If "Unleashed" didn't ride so heavily on Emily Perkins' shoulders, it might have been much more successful. Instead, we are left with supporting actors being stupid. Ghost, a manipulative girl also trapped in rehab, is only an annoying pest that Brigitte (and the audience) is stuck with. Tyler, the opportunistic perverted nurse in the rehab center, is drawn to Brigitte only because she resists his "charms". And then there's Alice, the head of the rehab facility, whose role is to not believe anything Brigitte says.

If you do plan on buying it (honestly, if you're on the fence about it, I would just rent it), you're going to have to go into it with very little expectations. Emily Perkins has earned the Ginger Snaps movies quite the cult-following, but their overzealous rave reviews threaten to doom this sequel.