Well, the start of the movie was VERY slow. It was slow but I didnt leave the theater since I couldnt get a refun. XD
The main character just pulls a gun and shoots the 'victim' and you are taken back in time in WW2.
It was VERY slow at first and you see the BAD treatment african ameraicans get durin world war 2.
The plot is slow and wierd at times when the child keeps refering to his 'friend' who is invisible.
Im use to slow movies, especially documentries with no action, or books like war and peace.
Towards the end the plot thickens and you witness betrayal between comrads and family.
I felt it odd how only one military person remained *and the little boy ran away* in the village after the germans killed everyone, but then in WW2, they actually did.
I dont want to give away the plot, b/c you can watch it or find the ending online but after that fateful day, that one survivor remembers the traitor and kills him in 1983.
He made bail by the person who he help saved.
After that final line "I was that boy" it all comes together and thats why I like the movie b/c of the PLOT!!
Also, another review does point the cons of the film, that I also noted. "contemporary language, modern topics of discussion, poor acting, and endless preaching about the evils of America." I did my best to ignore the visible poor acting and tried to focus my attention to the main plot, which was pretty good.
But forgive me but the acting and language, I couldnt understand what the american soldiers were saying, I had to put sub titles on to try to understand them. =/
Yes, I live under a rock, but I didnt know that "Spike Lee had scolded Clint Eastwood for not having any African Americans in Iwo Jima and had wanted him to rewrite history."
Its bad b/c not only were african americans were treated badly in WW2 but the japanese americans*which we put in 'concentration' like camps after the bombing of pearl harbor, the indians *windtalkers* the hispanics, who also werent white and faught in WW2 and were treated as bad. Maybe we should scold SP for not having hispanics in the movie.
And as other says 'what was the miracle?" The kid survided. I didnt think about it after the movie.
Besides that, I always say, peoples taste in movies varies. To me, I figured it was somehwat better then SPR. Dont get me wrong, I liked SPR but the ending was kinda TOO 'hollywood' but its a MOVIE based on historic events.
As for the 'american propaganda, check the old WW2 american propoganda that are REALLY something to talk about.
Besides my poor review, I liked the film *and all films have flaws* and if you feel unsure about it, borrow it from a friend.