No vampires to slay.  No kryptonite "Freaks of the Week."  No friggin creeks that you wish the series' namesake to drown in.  Nothing but a well-written, wonderfully cast show that is long overdue for a DVD release.  When the first season DVD release hits shelves, the fourth season should be close to wrapping up on the WB, and hopefully will continue everything about the show that made the first episodes so enjoyable.
Set in a fictional Connecticut town called Stars Hollow, The Gilmore Girls follows the lives of Lorelai and Rory Gilmore, a a single mother and teenage daughter who share a bond that is as much best friends as it is that of a mother and child.  The series begins with Rory's acceptance into the prestigious Chilton Academy and Lorelai's frantic desire to make that happen, which much to her chagrin, involves the help of her own mother, Emily Gilmore (played by the excellent Kelly Bishop) and father Richard (Edward Herman).  Growing up the rebellious daughter of wealthy society types and becoming pregnant at age 16 didn't exactly endear them to each other.  It is Lorelai's relationship with her parents that drives much of her character's motivation.  
While life as a single mother might be hard, Lorelai is not without a support system.  Stars Hollow is populated with an impressive collection of colorful characters, from the gruff, flannel-wearing diner owner, Luke, to Lorelai's coworker and best friend Sookie and the annoying Frenchman, Michel.  
Rory, too, has a group of close friends and even closer enemies.  Lane Kim, daughter of a Korean Bible beater is the music obsessed best friend, Dean (Jared Padelecki) is her first boyfriend and Paris, her academic and social rival.  As is the case with basically anything on the WB, Chad Michael Murray also finds his way into her life, as do Madeline and Louise, Paris' oversexed friends and Chilton classmates. 
Some of the highlight episodes from this debut season include Concert Interupticus - which featured a Bangles performance and hinted that there might be some degree of feeling beneath Paris' chilly exterior, and Emily in Wonderland - where Emily redecorates Rory's bedroom.  There are 20 more episodes, each with moments or more of genuine wit and even more genuine heart.
All of this considered, Lauren Graham and Alexis Bledel, as Lorelai and Rory, are the show's driving force.  Their chemistry, combined with the clever dialogue and rapid-fire delivery, have made this one of the best shows on tv. And now, at long last, on DVD!