Criterion made a blunder on their DVD of "Jules and Jim."  There is a sequence in which left and right are reversed.  The reversal does not occur on the Fox/Lorber version. At about 56'14" the movie cuts to a shot of Jules and Jim sitting on a meadow.  As we look at the frame, Jim is on the left, Jules to the right, and there is a little bridge to the left of the frame. Albert walks up to them and sits to the left of Jim (as we look at the frame).  Both Criterion and Fox are the same here.  The shot continues with Jim telling a war story.  At 58'56" cut to Catherine in the window.  On Criterion, the window is on the left, while on Fox it's on the right.  It's hard to know which is correct, but one of them is reversed! At 58'59" cut back to Albert, Jim, and Jules sitting on the meadow.  On Criterion their order is now reversed, with Jules on the left of the trio and Jim on the right.  Fox has to original, correct order.  Note also that the Criterion truncates Werner in the middle of his face, while Fox has all of him.  Criterion has clearly reversed the shot! At 59'01" cut to Moreau in the window.  Again Criterion has Moreau/window on the left, while it's still on the right on Fox. At 59'04" Albert walks from the meadow over the little bridge and then to the house.  On Criterion, Jules is still sitting to the left of Jim (left and right still reversed), and the little bridge is now on the right of the frame, clearly reversed!  Fox has the correct orientation (Jules to the right, bridge to the left).

Also, the cropping on Criterion is much worse on Criterion than Fox on the left and right.  You can see this in the meadow scene - Fox has more space to the left and right of the trio as they sit in the meadow.  Further, the Criterion suffers from a problem that exists on so many Criterion DVDs, namely that the black levels fluctuate.  Take a look at the night scene between Catherine and Jim around 1hr. 05' The Fox does not have this problem. The Criterion has a very clean look with less damage than the Fox, but to my taste the Criterion is a little too light in contrast. Of course, Coutard should know - but then again, he should be able to tell left from right!