Before Spetember 11, no one would have figured James Cameron was a prophet. Same for Tom Clancy. But where Clancy, who does something similar in The Sum of All Fears, has as his hero ubernerd Jack Ryan, INTJ, Cameron has as his hero the far more fun and accessible ESTP Arnold. Imagine James Bond written by alpha-male Americans for alpha-male Americans, instead of the cool and dry diehard Brit Ian Fleming. (To see what these tags of character's mean go to keirsey.com, which explains the whole business of INTJ's or ESTP's eloquently and simply.)
The Amazon writeup for this film implies Cameron doesn't like women. But Jamie Lee Curtis does look to be having fun. Yes, us men are going ga-ga for her as she is exploited. But (a) she raked in a heap of money (b) her stunning body has been immortalized in film and (c) how many women can claim to have turned on so many men at the same time with so little effort? (Hint: Curtis may very well be an alpha-female. Maybe and ENTJ.)
The action sequences in this film, as in all Cameron films, have a serious true-to-life feel. Arnold may very well be a psychopath as he slaughters deranged terrorist after deranged terrorist utterly without remorse or even blinking an eye. But the way it's done you really get the feeling that the violence is essential to the story and had to be done this way. (Again, unlike Sum of All Fears, which is a major letdown once you know anything about plotting. Why is the leader of The Greatest Nation on Earth not levelheaded?  The story's suspense derives entirely from the US President acting like a nincompoop. Which speaks well neither towards Clancy the democrat nor Clancy the patriot.) Which is why Cameron is better than Sam Peckinpah, who filmed Tarkovsky-like action sequences that often seemed out of place.
There's also enough gadgetry in this film to keep the editors of Maxim busy for at least a year. The subbasement of the building Arnold and co-star Tom Arnold work in is a standout true geek heaven. Cameron really delivers the goods.
Let's just hope he stops trying to grow up with this Titanic stuff and returns to the his teenage boy roots. He's in a league of his own.