I've read some of the reviews on this movie, and I think some of the people who say this movie isn't funny lack a sense of humor.  I first saw this movie in the theatre, I laughed all the way through it, along with the rest of the sold out cinema.  And when I watch it by myself at my house or with some people, I'll still laugh at some of its jokes.

Probably the only thing I didn't like about this movie is that it was kind of short (85 minutes or so), and the storyline was incredibly fast-paced.  Anyways, there's two main characters in the movie.  First, there is Peter LaFleur (Vince Vaugn, "Old School," "Anchorman") who is the owner of Average Joe's Gym, a run-down gym that is about to be shut down due to failed mortage payments and bought out by Peter's arch enemy, White Goodman (Ben Stiller).  White is the owner of Globo Gym, a state-of-the-art complex located right across the street from Average Joe's.  In order to keep Average Joe's Gym in business and out of the clutches of Globo Gym, Peter has to raise $50,000 dollars in 30 days.  After failed attempts to raise money, they decide to participate in a dodgeball tournament in Las Vegas, which happens to have a $50,000 grand prize awarded to the winner.  In response, Globo Gym forms their own dodgeball team, to try and prevent Average Joe's from winning the money.

That's pretty much it for the story itself.  And again, the story moves very quickly, but fortunately the cast is able to keep the laughs constantly coming.  The cast also includes a big set of on-camera cameos by William Shatner, Chuck Norris, David Hasselhoff, Hank Azaria, and Lance Armstrong.  The DVD also comes packed with bonus features.  I was surprised that they didn't have some of the deleted scenes in the actual movie, because they're pretty funny and the movie short enough as it is.  This may not be the best movie out there, but I bet Steven Spielberg crapped his pants when his movie, "The Terminal," got destroyed by Dodgeball at the box office in the first weekend.  It's worth a look!