Let me start by saying I'm an incredibly huge Breaking Bad fan and I've anxiously awaited this Blu-ray edition of the fourth season to come out.  This DVD Is the most frustrating, unexplainable stupid, illogical screw up I've ever seen in my life!  First of all I returned the first set to Amazon because it is the most difficult loading DVD I've ever experienced keeping in mind I have 800 DVDs and at least 150 Blu-ray DVDs and have never had this problem before so I assumed this set was defective.

So next Amazon replaces the defective DVDs incredibly fast (thank you Amazon) so now thinking my troubles are over I sit down to watch the Breaking Bad forth season only to find this set has the exact same problem as the previous one.  Now I'm left with the two choices either try to get this set to work somehow or return it and have absolutely nothing!  I decided to try to get this to work I can't even explain what I had to go through as far as starting, stopping, opening, closing the DVD player and after about 10 minutes you're able to get it to play but you have to go through this every single time you change anything on this DVD set.

With the fifth season of breaking bad a little over two weeks away I'm trying desperately to watch the fourth season and get caught up and I thought the loading problem would be something I could live with but little did I know that is only where the problems begin!

This is a little minor thing but nevertheless incredibly irritating on these three DVDs every single episode is listed on every DVD menu so you do not know which episodes are on  which DVD, so you're always given the option to pick which episode you want to watch only to find out they tell you to get up and change disk..  I for one have never seen a menu situation like this usually 100% of the time the episodes on that disc are the only things listed on that disk.

So now you have to get up go make an unexpected disk change only to have to go through the incredible process of getting the next disc to load.  I'm going to give them the benefit of the doubt and assume my three blu ray DVD players are the only ones that are going to have this loading problem, but here is a problem that there's no way you can escape and it's hard to freakin imagine why they would even do this!  For you Breaking Bad fans out there you realized there's key conversations that go on totally in Spanish so if you can believe this, "they do not have the closed captioning on the screen for those conversations" so if you don't speak Spanish this is somewhat of a problem!

Get a load of this,  it gets worse,  not only did they leave the close captioning off of two incredibly long important conversations but later on in a far less critical conversation they DO have the close captioning, this makes absolutely no sense whatsoever!

I have not tried this and don't intend to with the loading issues on this DVD set, I assume I could go in the menu and turn on closed captioning for just those conversations and then turn it off but then having to go through the loading process again no way!

I have all three seasons on regular DVD and I have also purchased the first three seasons on Blu-ray and I have not had this type problem with any of those sets, why all of a sudden they decided to just totally screw this thing up is totally amazing to me, the person or persons responsible for this colossal screwup must be fired at once!

I'm now going to return this second set and order the regular DVD version, do you think there is anyway they could have screwed that one up too?