Looking at the accolades on the DVD box, I am going to

have to take a minority view here and go with 3 stars,

a lukewarm recommendation with some cautionary thoughts.

Yes, the acting is first rate.  The film is not boring

and it is certainly well paced.

But as I watched this film, I had two big reservations.

First, it is relentlessly depressing.  What little sign

of "hope" there is for Sherry at the end is very little

and pretty late considering the completely messed up

person she is.  I did not see anything in her post release

behavior to indicate a genuine desire to reform.  Indeed,

her use of sex to get what she wants shows just how she still

wants the quick fix to everything.  She goes back to drugs

and drinking pretty quickly.  She has anger management issues,

impulse control problems, and a sick need to be the center of

attention.  Put bluntly, I did not see anything here to suggest

that she was anywhere near being in a position to deserve to be

part of her daughter's life.  (Despite what events may have

led her down her path.)

Second, this film seemed really fast and loose with

what I would think is acceptable reality.

1. Within days of her release she engages in sex acts with

the manager of her halfway house and a rather lecherous job

placement officer.  It seems more than a little unlikely that

she would meet TWO men who would risk their jobs (and health)

to have sexual relations with this woman.

2. As a convicted felon, I do not think she would have been

eligible for any position working with children.

3. I think her interaction with the parole department is not

very believable.  Either she would have, as a low level threat,

been "lost in the system" or she would have been violated and

sent back to jail for her numerous transgressions (fighting in

the halfway house, moving around without permission, drugs, etc).

4. As a convicted felon and single parent, she would almost

certainly have lost custody of her child and minimally, I would

expect DYFS to have an interest in her interaction with the child

after her parole.

The film left me with the impression her family had little or

no contact with her during her incarceration.  And now that she

is out, they wish she would just go away.

This film is a work of fiction, but I bet there are many families

who face a very similar situation in real life.  For those people,

watching this film would probably be torture.

For the rest of the world, an okay film, not very uplifting, and

I believe just a little too unrealistic in portraying the world

Sherry would encounter.

One other side note.  I thought it was interesting that the DVD

includes no special features aside from the movie trailer.  As more

and more films come with all kinds of commentary, how the movie

was made, and other special features, it is interesting to see

a film released and just left to stand on its own.