You know, had this film had a better scriptwriter, who didn't simply repeat bad comic or game lines for the characters but created taut, snappy dialogue and more complex interplay, this could have been a superb film.

The look of it is extremely interesting. The use of Shanghai for the city of the future was marvellous, and I enjoyed the comic-ised  palette and the use of CGI to recreate the graphic novel/game appearance. The martial arts style was fascinating, and Milla Jovovich is certainly stunning.

But character depth, interplay and plot have been discarded as unimportant in this movie. None of the characters has anything interesting to say - it's all very much "this is a computer game and no one expects Shakespeare"-style dialogue. The motivations of the characters are often inexplicable. The actual danger of this disease of the haemophages is never explained. How the boy (named Six - a clone of a cartoon-style villain) is supposed to be activated to act as a weapon is never explained. The motivation for the villain is frankly ludicrous. And the endless and inevitable and unstoppable killing routine of Violet herself is fun, but let's face it - ridiculous.

One has to suspend disbelief to enjoy the film. I did so willingly - but even so, the plot problems were gaping. I think it's time that directors of this style of movie stopped thinking viewers will not notice the plot problems and lack of depth in the characters. Yes, no doubt it's fun for a director to bring a comic book to life, but really, really, REALLY... directors and scriptwriters have got to get beyond the "oh, isn't it fun - we're creating dialogue just like a comic book!" stage. It isn't fun for the audience. There is a difference between comic books and films, and part of the difference is in the expectation of the dialogue and the richness of characters.

By all means, let the look of this style of film continue to utilise the stark and bright colours of the graphic novel/game. But the stereotypical characters are far too obvious when transported from comic book to screen. FAR too obvious. Detailed work needs to be done by a real scriptwriter who doesn't mind creating more realistic characters with deeper functionality than a mere imitation of their comic book counterpart.

The crew obviously enjoyed working on this film, particularly with all the special effects. They clearly did not think in terms of a great plot, but in terms of "wow, we have a fantastic motorcycle sequence going along the SIDE of buildings!" or "wow, we have Violet fighting twenty armoured men!" or "wow, doesn't Milla look beautiful in these shots?" and so on. Mm-hmm. Ho hum, I'm afraid. These sequences are simply UNIMPORTANT to making the film itself great. They don't do it. They cannot and never will take the place of a truly good plot.

So many things didn't make sense. Why was Six thought to be dead if he wasn't? Why did Violet's teardrop make him not dead? Why did she know this? Why did she risk her life for him when, for all she knew, merely touching the boy would result in instant annihilation of all her people? Why did she keep keep spouting appallingly bad lines about how dangerous and deadly a killer she is? (This struck such a jarring note...) Why was she able to fool all the tests when she was pretending to a courier? How did she slaughter all of the guards she confronted, even when overcome by completely overwhelming odds? (In true comic-book style, she was supposed to be invincible, but the scriptwriter and director were clearly trying to make Violet "real"... They've forgotten "real" only works when overwhelming odds aren't included all the time in a completely unrealistic way.)

I do think the casting of Milla Jovovich was right for the role, and she's a good actress. She did the best she could with this role. The fault was in the writing.

In these terms, "Ultraviolet" was a disappointment. "Equilibrium", also a fantasy film with a super-hero type of character, was amazingly good, and featured not only a powerhouse performance from Christian Bale, but had a story that made sense. It had character dynamics that were superb. It also had an incredibly moving moment - that instant when Bale's character hears the music of Beethoven for the first time while no longer on his emotion-suppressing medication, and tears of astonishment and wonder at the beauty of it trickle from his eyes. Now THAT worked...

I hope the director of this film will tackle that sort of film again, and will choose a scriptwriter who can create emotionally powerful moments like that, as well as create characters that have real depth, not pseudo-depth as I'm afraid the character of Ultraviolet had.

Recommended with caveats, mainly for the look of it, and for those who enjoy the sight of an unstoppable but unrealistic woman defeating anyone who comes against her or stands in her way. Do not watch if you want a genuinely gripping plot or believable characters.