Here is a short run down of the movie for those who haven't seen it. Micheals niece Jamie has been captured by the mysterious "Men In Black" druids, she has been impregnated and has a baby. After she has it, a nurse steals the kid from the druids and gives Jamie the baby. She than leads Jamie to exscape, however the nure soon comes to her end when a angry Micheal (beefed up and all; lay of the big macs) lifts her with 1 hand, and drives her head through a convienetly placed spike in the wall. Even with a head start, and extra time while Micheal disposes of the nurse, he catches up with his niece Jamie who justs happens to drive to Haddonfield. (WHY? WHY HADDONFIELD?) Micheal of course uses his great driving skills he some how picked up (he drives better than most females with licenses) and chases Jamie into a barn. Jamie almost makes her exscape again, but she accidently breaks a twig under her foot giving herself away. Micheal than shoves her into a grater and kills her (Finally! Took him 3 freakin' movies!!) he than searchers her truck she stole from a mechanic earlier (who happens to be killed by Myers; breaks his neck with his bare hands) and to no ones surprise the baby is GONE! This is where the movie really starts to [go downhill]...and you thought the first 5 minutes were bad. It's like I was watching a lesser Jamie Lee in part 1, we had the stair incident, except Micheal falls, and the same chase sceen where the door is locked. What really makes this movie horrible is the sub-plots. Druids, baby's,Tommy Doyle, this other kid, his mom, a angry father ... alot of sub-plots. Not to mention, the whole movie you see the killer. No surrpise killings. Its like you see it coming because YOU ACTUALLY SEE HIM IN THE BACKGROUND! NO POP-UPS, NO UNEXSPECTED KILLINGS! However I will say Wilbur, although hefty in the gut, played Myers perfectly for this film. Unlike the other films, where he was a stealthy, cunning killer..this plot was for a PSYCO, OUT OF CONTROL MANIAC! And it made for a scary Myers. By far, I was more scared of this Micheal than any others. He was bigger, meaner and faster. And also unlike others (except part 5 which [was] even worse than this one) he would even go out of his way just to kill. In part 1 it was just get Laurie, people bumped into him in part 1 and he just let them walk away, same with part 2. In this one, if you were within a mile..you were killed! He truely was a NUT in this film. But because it stretch so far from the normal Halloween plots, it was a horrible movie. Dr.Loomis (Donald Pleasence) was mis-used because of ill-ness and it was really sad to see him in such shape. Honestly, Id rather not have had him in this film because they showed him no respect, they left a legend in a film just to say he was in it, to put his name on the bill. They have him horrible lines, and no air time. Only good thing about this movie is the scary Myers, no other Halloween besides part 1 and 2 left me kinda scared. Honestly, after watching this one I still look behind my back everynow and then...lol......he is really scary. To bad the plot stinks, and even a extra scary Myers couldn't save this film. 2 stars is what it gets, 1 for the scary Myers and the other for a tribute to Donald Pleasence..god bless!