This is the greatest television show of it's time! I just got this yesterday, and I have already finished one disk and almost half of the following. I have seen the entire series on TV, so I will give you a bird's eye view of this season along with the characters.

Gabrielle: The season starts out with Gabi being pregnant and Carlos in jail. Carlos does get out of jail, and he starts going to church more often. Gabi has also told John that their relationship is over ever since he spilled the beans to Carlos it was he who was sleeping with his wife.  I will not give anymore storyline away about Gabi, but believe me, it gets even more juicy!

Susan: Well, after the cliff hanging ending of season one, we find out that no one gets hurt by Zach! Susan gets the gun away from him, and she accidently shoots a bullet out the window. Zach runs off. Susan wants to press charges; however, Mike refuses saying that Zach has had a hard life (I was going to say something else, but I can't remember if it comes out in season one or not, and I don't want to ruin anything). Mike wants Zach to be safe, so he tries his best to find him. Susan helps, and she does catch up with him. She gives him money to go to Utah, so he can try to find Paul there, considering this is where Paul used to live. Will this effect Mike and Susan's relation, stay tuned to find out!

Edie: Well, she goes after another man in Susan's life: Carl. Yes, Edie starts dating Carl, which you know is going to really make Susan mad. There isn't much I can say about this without me revealing everything, but I will say one thing: Edie will show Susan that payback is a bitch!

Lynette: Well, Lynette is forced to go back to work! She works for a mean woman named Nina, who constantly tells Lynette that she is not getting time off for her kids because she (Nina) chose not to have kids so she could put her job first. Well, this is hard for Lynette, especially with Parker. The other kids aren't in this season as much Parker. Little Parker makes up Mrs. Mulberry (I know it isn't spelled right) and he starts asking about the opposite sex. Anyways, things will start to get really juicy with Tom and Lynette as well!

The Applewhites: I will not say anything about this family, it will ruin the entire season.

Bree: Bree Van De Kamp is my personal favorite housewife, so I decided to leave her for last! Well, she has to deal with being a single mother and dealing with her mother-in-law during the first few episodes of the season. Rex's body has been dug up due to evidence that suggests that someone may have been poisoning him. After the note is found that says "Bree, I know what you did and I forgive you" the finger is pointed directly at Bree. She does take a lie detector test, and it comes up negative, but positive when she is asked if she is in love with George Williams! Bree will also be dealing with George, Danielle's relationship with her new boyfriend, and Andrew with his boyfriend.