The fourth in the LOVE Series is easily the worst of the four. While Love Comes Softly sets a nice dramatic heartfelt tone with religious undertoes that inspire and move, this episode crashes and burns in nearly every possible aspect of the movie. It is only the competent acting of the film that keeps you at all interested in the melodrama that flows like a burst damn over what should have been a sensitive portrait of loss due to sudden crib death & how it affects a family.
As a member of a family who lost an child to this, I find this portrait insulting and so forcefully RELIGIOUS that it offends. While the hand of God moves and guides one through such a terrible incident in life, to depict it in such a simplistic manner is mind-numbing. It is not in any way shape or form up to the standard set in the earlier episodues of this warm intimate series. While Mr. Landon Sr knew how to tread that thin line between healthfelt/sentiment with a passion and compassion, Mr Landon Jr seems to have oversteped that line and wandered most decidedly in to predictible exploitive melodrama. I only hope the remainer of the series reverts back to the style and grace of the first three films and does not continue into this mauldlin over the top style. When the very same actors who were reserved and illuminating in their roles, perform the same role but with such exaggerated emotions, you know the director is doing a diservice to the work. As the music swells ominously each time the evil rich mayor appears and he executes his insidious deeds on the poor Christian folk, one can feel the swells of not tears but thunderous laughter building with one's gut. Not the intended the reaction especially when dealing issues such as crib death, weather induced poverty and loss of the ability to maintain one's livelihood. In these trying economic times to see such black and white manipulations of situations & characters can only induce laughter and derisive dismissal. What a missed opportunity this episode in the LOVE SERIES is.