I am sort of a horror movie ultra fan starting way way back when I was just a kid,during the glorious 80's when slasher films ruled the genre. I have seen it all from the Japanese style frightfests to low budget horror to zombie flicks to the ultra violent torture themes that are so prevalent today. With that being said, I am not that easily shocked, probably the last time I was moved or nervous by a horror film was the first time I watched the Exorcist,(I'm dating myself),and in the last few years perhaps Cannibal Holocaust. This film is vile,disturbing,extremely disgusting,and when it is finished,if you make it all the way to the end,you will feel as if you immediately require a shower. If I am rating this movie solely on production value,easily 5 stars. The black and white method of shooting the film was pure genius,with director Six creating a dark and gritty patina that transferred effectively to the viewer. Character creation,another win. Martin was extremely convincing to the point that you actually wondered if they cast an actual mentally disturbed and violent recluse for the part. Then theres the actual story...more than halfway throught the film the whole thing kind of falls apart,in the first film of course you had a brilliant but demented surgeon,now we are treated to a twisted human mole with household tools,duct tape and a staple gun. The subject matter is what it is,watching this movie after having viewed the first installment you obviously have to expect it to be disturbing,but wow,it crosses lines that no other film in my memory has before,and I suppose the fact that during certain parts I cringed and almost turned completely away means the film delivered its desired effect. I cannot remember the last time I felt absolute revulsion while watching any film,let alone extreme horror,but this piece was a dandy. I think the point where I almost jumped off the Human Centipede train was as a previous reviewer pointed out that towards the climax a single color was allowed onto the pallette...brown. If you have seen the first movie,you will know what I'm getting at. All in all,and this is comoing from a severe horror movie buff,this one kind of left me wondering just how far is too far...watch if you dare my friends. And just for the record,the pregnant victim and what ultimately happens to the imminent newborn is just unneccesary. It didn't add or detract from the story,it just in my humble opinion was put in to shck. It delivered. In spades.