and you'll think this is a better-than-average made-for-TV (even though it wasn't) movie, and you'll appreciate the book even more.

Let's start with the cons:  The book was set in the late 1950's (around 1957, I think, and I know I'm comparing to the book, but bear with me), whereas the movie is set in present-day.  This presents many problems.

Just an aside:  "A Walk to Remember" by Nicholas Sparks was set in 1958 and when it was translated to the screen, it lost a lot of its charm because it was set in the present.  There's just a certain charm about time past that cannot be duplicated in the here and now.

Anyway, fast-forwarding the book about thirty years, it lost something.  The children would have been much more innocent, but then again, Jeb Stuart Adams and Kristy Swanson were MUCH too old for the roles.  I know they were supposed to be older going into the attic than they were in the book (I am guessing Chris and Cathy are the same age going into the attic in the movie as they were coming out in the book), but Jeb Adams was twenty-seven, and he looked it.  And am I the only one who noticed the children more resembled displaced Amish children (Chris wears suspenders and what was with Cathy and those dowdy dresses?) than the Dresden dolls they were supposed to be?

These children did not look Aryan enough--yes, they had blond(e) hair, though I didn't notice any blue eyes, and Cory's curly hair made him look Jewish (which would have been fine, if this was a story about Jewish children, but it wasn't), neither were any of these children stunning; they were all rather ordinary looking (Kristy Swanson was somewhat pretty, at least before her hair got chopped off).  Though Victoria Tennant is elegant and attractive (but not as) in a Grace Kelly sort of way, she looked a bit tired.  As for the father, well, I imagined a much handsomer man (think Jeffrey Hunter with blond hair), but oh, well.

But it was the children's ages that were worse.  The twins were fine, but Chris and Cathy were post-pubescent in the movie, as opposed to pre-pubescent in the book (though Chris is fourteen in the book, he doesn't start growing hair in certain places until later), which explains why the children in the book held out for as long as they did before escaping.  It is much easier to control a fourteen-year-old boy than a boy old enough to serve in the military.

I think the worst scene of the film was when Chris and Cathy are on the bus in the daytime and Cathy is going on about how they never had a pet, about how they should have had one so they could get used to death, or some such nonsense as that, so that she would know that fathers die, even handsome, wonderful ones, too.  It was so totally pointless.

I also think the fact that they arrived at Foxworth Hall during the daytime and through the front door instead of in the dark of night through the back deflated some of the mystery.  The cinematography could have been darker in some places, lighter in others.  Instead, it always seemed like it had just rained.

We are given just a glimpse of what life was like, how sunny yellow it was, before Chris Sr.'s death.

I didn't really mind the ending with Corinne dying, being hung by her wedding veil, because I really do see a book and a movie made from it as two separate works of art.  That's how Margaret Mitchell felt about "Gone with the Wind".  Though I read somewhere a sequel was planned, I am not sure how they would have went about doing that as "Petals on the Wind" focused not only on Cathy's exciting and versatile love life, but on getting revenge on her mother.

Cathy's character was just totally different in the movie (and so was Carrie's--Carrie was a little spitfire in the book) and in leaving out the incest between Chris and Cathy, it lost something.  Chris was just blah and Cory was cute and all, but not much else.  The female characters dominated this film.

Overall, the movie was just a low-budget, lackluster production.

Now for the pros:  The haunting, chilling score (I'm still not sure how I feel about Cathy's narrating), and Louise Fletcher was perfect as the grandmother.  This flick is entertaining enough because when I watched it before I even knew of the book's existence, I was intrigued.  I've watched it twice since then and have the same opinion I've had since reading the book--that it could have been so much better, but better had it not been done at all.  What's in my imagination is better than anything they can put on film.  I've found the best movies are made out of bad books.

Watch it once or twice, maybe even a third time with a friend, but that's about it.  The book has much more readability.