I was never a fan of the original Doctor Who series.  I became interested in the original series after Elisabeth Sladen guest starred on an episode of the new Doctor Who series in 2005 reprising her Sarah Jane Smith role.

I had previously seen a few of the original series episodes on one of our PBS stations here in Seattle, but could never get into the series.  I found the special effects rather cheesy.  I later learned that the cheesy special effects were one of the things that Doctor Who fans liked most about the original series.  I've come to enjoy them myself.

THE FIVE DOCTORS was the first episode of the original series that I had ever seen on TV.  That was more than 20 years ago.  I did not understand the concept of the series and the idea of regeneration and so I did not understand how all five actors could appear together playing the Doctor.  When I saw this episode on TV I missed the first part of it so did not know really what was going on.

I consider this episode to be one of the best, perhaps even the best, episodes of both the original Doctor Who and the new Doctor Who series.  Even though David Tenant is my favorite Doctor, I consider Jon Pertwee to be the best Doctor.  If such a person as the Doctor actually existed, Pertwee, as he portrayed the Doctor, is exactly how I would expect the Doctor to be.

William Hartnell, who originally portrayed the Doctor, died about 8 years before this episode was filmed.  He appears at the beginning in a brief archive footage.  His role was taken by Richard Hurndall who looks and sounds remarkably like Hartnell.  I think I watched this video three times before realizing that he was not Hartnell and remembered that had died in 1975.

Tom Baker, the most popular Doctor of the original series, is in it only in archive footage from an episode that, apparently was never aired.  He refused to participate in this episode because he considers himself to be the ONLY Doctor Who and, apparently, did not want to appear in a supporting role as one of the former Doctors.

I believe even a casual Doctor Who fan will enjoy this video and I highly recommend it.