What more can be said about this perfectly acted story?  Geraldine Page's character (Carrie Watts) is cooped up with her son and daughter-in-law in a small apartment.  Her constant hymn-humming drives the in-law nuts, while the latter's selfish, tyrannical demands make Page's life a cramped hell.  The in-law is more interested, it seems, in Watts's Social Security check than in her welfare, and takes every precaution to ensure that Watts never leaves the apartment alone.

Watts is old now, and in her anguish wishes to visit her childhood home in Bountiful one last time.  She schemes to hide her check and light out for the bus station.  She's not gone long before her relatives are in hot pursuit.  She meets several characters along the way, including Rebecca de Mornay's sweet, pretty bus traveler.  You'll be hard pressed to not wipe away a tear when Watts reveals, ever so briefly and without histrionics, the unhappiness of her life and the man she loved.

She finally makes it to the end of the bus line in the middle of the night, not far from Bountiful, but needs to somehow arrange a ride.  Unhappily in the morning the sheriff arrives to take her, and you can feel her claustrophobic frustration and sorrow to be denied her last dream.  The sheriff is a kindly man, though, and he is the one who takes her home, to the abandoned house sitting in the midst of trees and overgrown weeds and grass.  If you've ever visited the ruins of a place you once inhabited, or that of another family, you might be able to guess at the strength and type of emotions that surge through Watts.  Geraldine Page portrays all of this beyond acting, to the point where you think this homecoming is really happening.

In this pretty little spot with the run-down house, the sheriff ruminates as to the people who lived in Bountiful, before cotton and carelessness used up the soil and everyone moved on.  The son and his wife arrive.  There is no soaring climax, no glorious finale, just life going on, which makes this movie so true to life.  Mother and son talk as the breeze rustles through the old house and the plants, and they return to the car.  There is an understated hope of greater understanding and reconciliation between the two women, just like you might think could happen in the real world.  The movie ends with Carrie Watts in the back seat of the car as it leaves Bountiful, with a beautiful rendition of the beautiful hymn "Softly and Tenderly Jesus is Calling."

Such a moving and perfectly observed movie and ending.  When everything clicked, Hollywood could really do it right sometimes.  Page's masterful performance alone makes this one of the great movies of our day.