At the beginning of writer-director Preston Sturges' "Sullivan's Travels," worried Hollywood studio heads resist director John Sullivan's (Joel McCrea) desire to make a socially important movie about America's poor, telling him that such a movie cannot be made, least of all by him -- a director of such cheerful comedies as "Hey Hey In The Hayloft" and "Ants In Your Plants of 1939" -- because he simply doesn't know anything about the huddled masses upon whom he intends to shine his moral lantern. Sullivan therefore dresses as a tramp and sets out to get a first-hand look at what a tramp's life is really like. For the rest of the movie (ostensibly a comedy), Sullivan endures the indignities, hardships and outrageous injustice to which tramps are indifferently and routinely subjected. By this amazing feat of paralepsis (that is, the device of emphasizing a thing by omitting it or mentioning it only cursorily), Sturges manages to present precisely the socially-significant, "Important" picture that he never stops telling us cannot be made. Along the way, he also succeeds where Shakespeare's clowns in "A Midsummer Night's Dream" fail, viz., he creates "very tragical mirth."

Possibly his best movie, "Sullivan's Travels" is one of the greatest movies ever made. Sturges' extraordinarily literate and witty dialogue has never been matched, very rarely even approached (although John Collier's wonderful dialogue in "Deception" is a real contender). Yet for all his sophistication and the scintillating brilliance of his rapid-fire dialogue, Sturges was also a master of lowbrow buffoonery and regularly included extended sequences with no dialogue whatsoever. He was adept at everything he took an interest in, and he was interested in everything. He loved all aspects of movie making, and his pictures -- "Sullivan's Travels" especially -- are wonderfully cinematic, full of amazing crane shots, extraordinarily long dolly shots and other displays of virtuoso camera work. But his virtuosity -- unlike, say, Orson Welles' -- is at all times tempered by discretion and an irreproachable sense of what is suitable and necessary. His cinematography is as ingenious as Welles', but less ostentatious, more aesthetically pleasing, and always, always to the purpose. "Sullivan's Travels" is one of the strangest blends of comedy and drama that you're likely to see. It's usually categorized as a comedy, but despite the exceptionally witty banter and a few masterfully choreographed slapstick set-pieces, don't be surprised if you don't remember laughing when it's over. For despite the superbly antic dialogue and the incredible number of sharply-delineated comic types capering about on its surface, "Sullivan's Travels" is an unusually serious-minded picture. Each comic sequence plays in the shadow of drama; the drama, moreover, is of rare and surprising intensity. It presents as stark a depiction of Depression Era misery as anything in "The Grapes of Wrath" -- starker, if you ask me. For one thing, since "The Grapes of Wrath" takes place entirely among the poor, Tom Joad and his family exist, as it were, in a vacuum of destitution. Keeping the story entirely within the narrow confines of the Joad's world demonstrates restraint and (perhaps) artistic integrity, but such integrity comes at a price. For the poverty that initially startles and sickens us, loses, as we grow familiar with it, its powerful hold on our emotions. John Ford also succumbs, as he always does, to sentimentality: the sodden sweepings from Emotion's banquet -- as if the grim world he presents would be too much for us to bear if left unpalliated by a few Fordian flourishes of sugared-over "humanity."

"Sullivan's Travels" is an overtly emotional movie, refreshing for the sincerity and grandeur of its emotionalism. Often overbroad, nearly crude in its obviousness, it is never sentimental because, for all its exaggeration, it tells the truth. Sturges places poverty in context by emphasizing the stark difference between the lives of the rich and poor. Witty scenes depicting the empty-headed idle rich at play provide ironic contrast to scenes played among crowds of starving, hollow-eyed wraiths huddled into nightmarish work camps, charity wards and Hoovervilles. By themselves, the comic scenes at the Hollywood studio and at Sullivan's shimmering stucco mansion would be delicious and charming; juxtaposed amidst depictions of want, however, comedy starts to looks frivolous, even callous, nearly poisonous: the antithesis of comic relief. In "Sullivan's Travel's" comedy makes tragedy more desperately cruel. Yet it also argues convincingly that comedy is our only hope against despair.

The Criterion Collection's recent release of "Sullivan's Travels" is what DVD technology is all about. The crystal clear digital transfer alone makes the DVD well worth having, but there is also an excellent Emmy Award winning documentary about Sturges' life as well as an interesting interview with his widow, Sandy Sturges (an amazingly well-spoken, beautiful and likeable woman), and an often amusing commentary track featuring, among others, Christopher Guest and Michael McKean.