There are not enough stars in the heavens to give "The Dick Van Dyke Show" the rating it deserves!  I am just old enough to have watched and enjoyed this show as a child when it originally aired on the network and I remember how sad I was when it ended.  Of course, I have watched it in reruns ever since, to the point where I have every episode almost completely memorized!  I now own the DVD set of the complete series, which I received as a birthday gift just a couple of months ago, and I am already playing through it a second time.  It's wonderful to be able to watch "The Dick Van Dyke Show" any time I want and the speacial features are great, too - interviews with cast and producers, commentary, clips from Emmy Awards shows and some other very interesting and entertaining footage.

This show never loses its interest for me, rather it seems to get better and better with each viewing and it still has me smiling wide and laughing out loud.  Several episodes stand out as classics and some have always been particular favorites of mine, two or three episodes lack the usual originality and sparkle, but in all five seasons there isn't one episode that doesn't offer something to make it worth watching.  The writing, the direction, the entire cast - with their many talents, their singing and dancing, their comedic skills and timing, and the chemistry among them - are all way off the charts!  Carl Reiner - in creating and writing this series based on his own life experience as a comedy writer, husband and father - has imbued his characters with incomparable warmth, human frailty and emotional honesty, making them all nearly as believable and lovable as they are hilariously funny.  I have to say that the "The Dick Van Dyke" show touches my heart as much as it makes me laugh and it NEVER insults my intelligence or sensibility in any way.  That is why I can watch it over and over and over again...year after year after year...

There have been many great television sitcoms, but as far as I'm concerned "The Dick Van Dyke Show" tops them all in every respect!  I only wish there were more episodes to enjoy, but I applaud the decision to quit when they did rather than risk growing stale.  It was five glorious seasons of the best situation comedy ever made, and now, with the complete series on DVD, I can continue to enjoy it through every season of my life!