This is one of my most excellent purchases!  I rate this serial "five bags of popcorn".  It's got everything a seventy year old "boy" could want in a chapter play;  good action in the way of fights and chases and cliff-hanges; a solid pure-as-all-get-out hero; sharp, clear photography; exciting music to push the action forward---ever forwward(!); a good sense of place.  Though the genre targets a young audience the dialogue doesn't condescend; and, finally, it has one of the "very best diabolical villains" of all time---right up there with Ming the Merciless---in the initimable diabolical Fu Manchu, as protrayed by a damn good actor, Henry Brandon.
  This type of movie---we call it a genre these days---isn't for everybody.  It takes the uncluttered mind of a child to see the hero as a "hero".  He has no social complications in his character; he has no 'hang-ups"---he doesn't drink, doesn't a troubled love life, doesn't neglect his family or his job for his "hero-izing", none of that.  He simply does what he does because there's a bad guy out there devising villainous schemes against decent human beings, who's got all the help he needs with a seemingly endless number of henchmen to carry them out.  Our guy "takes action"; he doesn't prosletize atop a soap-box justifying his actions.  The what, where, when, and how is his motivating force.  The "why", with its endless possibilities,nw takes too much time to think about so it never enters his mind.
  If you down shift your mental gears a bit and suspend the harsh demands of"sophisticated" reality The Drums of Fu Manchu can be the source of some of the  best unfettered joy any movie goer can ever get.  I make a big batch of popcorn, sit myself down in front of my big flat-screen with childish anticipation,  and watch two or three chapters.  It takes the discipline of a Tibetan Monk to not watch the next episode but with practice it gets easier.  After all, you gotta have something to look forward too, right!!!
  Forego that bottle of "claret" and spend the money on one of the best "popcorn" investments you'll ever make!!