As an avid reader of erotic literature, it's certainly understandable that most erotic books could hardly be put on film without the cast and producers being immediately and summarily jailed by the powers to be. 
However, this DVD of top notch entertainers, both in front and behind the cameras, have managed to develop those super elements of eroticism, of pursuit, capture, and ultimate submission of the mind and body that give spice to the sex and sin of it. 
Zalaman King, as one of the team that produced and wrote the screenplay, and soundtracks by Grace Jones, Eurythmics, and Joe Cocker, not to mention the wonderfull acting skills of Kim Basinger and Mickey Rourke (don't let preconceived notions of Mickey cloud your judgement in this DVD)makes this DVD a star packed sensation cut by masters. 
It follws that the technical production of this DVD is blue blood quality and of course it's widescreen, dolby digital etc etc  ... nuff said ... 
In the story our hero(Mickey,) meets and then seduces, Elizabeth(Kim B,) and then leads her on a wild and woderfull erotic journey of the heart, mind and the body. Elizabeth does not understand this and has trouble with this magical mystery tour since she has never met a wealthy, gentle, caring man who is a master of all flavours of erotic delights, and, he has the patience to court, woo and gently seduce our heroine .... (BTW it's true those men don't exist, so, if you want reality, stop reading here and forget this DVD ... LOL ) ...... 
The erotic seductions scenes are skillfully done, and, the scene on the kitchen floor where Rourke feeds Bassinger a luscious assortment of foods is probably the best food erotic scene ever filmed. Trust me, there aren't many of todays actress stars that would allow the camera to get in that close to their faces as Bassinger did while literally gobbling up those dleights that she should get an academy award for that performance .... 
Finally, I would venture to guess that most men would not enjoy this movie, (they wouldn't have the patience and besides that's why they invented porn)  but, I can assure you, that if you are a woman and reads romance novels you'll, love it, and, here's the best part, if you are a woman that enjoys erotic literature, well then RUN and I mean RUN and buy this DVD cause like I said, hands down, (or whatever) it's fabulous and you won't love this DVD you'll gobble it all up ......