"Make it stop!"
That was the one thought that kept running through my mind while suffering through this unbelievably painful "animated" adaptation of Tolkien's classic "The Lord Of The Rings".  Based mostly on the first two books (or really one and a half) and just over 2 hours long, and I mean LONG, this terrible, half baked attempt to tell the story of Frodo, Samwise, Gandalf and the Ring of doom is an insult to true Tolkien fans everywhere.  Given that it is supposed to be an animated telling of the tale, with some of the cheapest and poorest hacked out animation I have ever seen, it could and should have been more imaginative.  The character designs should have been over the top, really pushing the bounds of the filmgoers imagination, instead they are dull, bland in some cases, as with Elrod of Rivendell, downright BORING.  The Balrog is more something to laugh at then to be terrified of as it is merely a man of about 6 or 7 feet, dressed in a costume with a Lion's head, large bat wings and furry boots cracking a whip.  Woooooooo, so scary.  Worst of all are the Orcs which are all filmed not animated and are live action extras wearing what look like really bad rubber Halloween ape masks with large tusks and draped in some sort of burlap sack/toga clothing.  Once again, the Orcs are bad, I mean BAD!  The story also attempted to tell the first two books instead of just focusing on one which makes for a very convoluted and, more often then not, confusing film.  For those who have not read the books, you will be completely lost as to what is going on about 45 minutes into the film.  Rankin/Bass released a much more delightful version of the final book in "The Lord Of The Ring" trilogy with their attempt at "Return Of The King".  Although the Rankin/Bass version may come up short in places (some unnecessary musical numbers), it does deliver so much more to the viewing audience with it's beautifully realized character depictions.  The animation may not be the smoothest with ROTK, but the characters and scenery are much more delightful and colorful, the way you'd expect them to be in an animated film.  For many years, Bakshi's "Lord Of The Rings" was the only film telling of Tolkien's epic that one could view, fortunately that has changed with the magnificent new version created for the big screen by Peter Jackson.  Your best bet is to pass on this version, go see the NEW version and buy that one on DVD or VHS when it is released in the later part of 2002.  BUT, with that said, if you want to have a real laugh at a really bad film then by all means purchase the animated version of LOTR and be amazed at the terrible way Bakshi botched this story up.  Hey, for the price it's selling at on Amazon.com, it might be worth it.  I said, "MIGHT BE".