I probably am not the best person to review this product as I love the older version with Hayley Mills.  However, I like to consider myself unbiased and open to new versions of the same films.

Plot:
If you've seen the old version of this, you already know this part.  Two girls meet at camp and realize that they are in fact twin sisters.  They switch places to meet their other parents and to attempt to bring their parents back together.  But the father's marriage to a much younger woman may thwart family bliss!

Good:
The actress who played Meredith is absolutely wonderful!  I was never convinced Vicki in the old film was actually young; this "Vicki" is most definitely young enough to be Dad's daughter.  Also, Lindsay Lohan makes a cute set of twins.  She does a good job acting like two different people at such a young age.  Dennis Quaid makes a good loving, dorky father while Natasha Richardson shines as the mother.  Lastly, I adored Chessy, the quirky maid.  Seeing the original "Vicki" from the old "Parent Trap" with the same name (which makes one wonder: where are Susan and Sharon?) was absolute fun!

Bad:
Oh, boy.  Here we go.
1.  How many situations do we have to see that make Annie and Hallie twins?  I can understand the strawberry allergy, but the Oreo/peanut butter thing, fencing, and poker??  How can two girls raised in two different continents with two completely different parents have so much in common?
2.  I think having the mother show up drunk at the hotel was completely unnecessary.  It is funny for laughs, but not appropriate for the target audience (plus, would a formal British woman like Elizabeth really get drunk?).
3.  Chessy and Martin's romance, while cute, was a little over the top.
4.  Elizabeth and Nick's romance was whirlwind (no wonder they divorced so soon after!).  Their breakup was silly (at least the way that they explained it in the movie: that Elizabeth expected Nick to chase her down.  Puhlease!  Grow up!).  Their chemistry was great, but I just couldn't believe their history.
5.  Grandfather was not an integral part of the show.  He became eclipsed by Martin.  This wouldn't have been so bad if he hadn't been the one to get the truth from Hallie at the phone booth.
6.  The stunts the girls performed to antagonize each other were not feasible.  I don't know many girls that can disassemble beds, haul them to the roof, and reassemble them in the time it takes for three girls to go on a hike.
7.  Last major beef: so many of the lines are cut and paste from the old version, but not delivered with the same energy or don't make sense in the new context.  Or situations (such as the sticks and the mountain lions) are presented without the necessary explanations.

Dialoge/Sexual Situations/Violence
Dialogue is mainly restricted to "Oh my God" and other exclamations.  Sexual situations will be too much for the younger set (Meredith and Dad discuss hotel rooms, sex is brought up between Hallie and Meredith, a girl jumps in the lake naked, etc.).  Violence is restrained to falling down or smacks across the face.

Overall:
If I could have given 1.5 stars, I would.  The actors are excellent.  However, the main flaws in this film are its riding off the old film and uninventiveness.  Further, this is much more risque than its older counterpart.  Good for the younger (but not too young) set, but adults will see the flaws and not be able to enjoy.