If you love Audrey Hepburn and enjoy watching classic love stories of a by-gone era, get this collection.  While by no means a definitive Hepburn film collection, it will give you the three most popular (and my personal favorite) DVD's, illustrating the pinnacle of Hepburn's work.  If you're not that familiar with Hepburn (where have you been..?!), this is a splendid beginning for a lifetime's love affair with the classically stunning actress who stole all our hearts and made us believe in grand, Hollywood-movie style love.  "Roman Holiday" is a Cinderella-type story, except Hepburn is the Princess looking for her average-Joe Mr. Right (and she doesn't do too shabbily with Gregory Peck!).  "Sabrina" (this is the best version--but see the re-make with Harrison Ford & Julia Ormond to compare) is Hepburn's rags-to-riches tale come to life with the help of great actors, Bogart and Holden.  The story will sweep you off your feet as you watch the tale of young girl who comes to learn the meaning of true love in the most unexpected way (I can only say SO much without giving the story away!).  And, of course, "Breakfast at Tiffany's" is a lovely story about a young woman who expends all her energy trying to live a glamourous & fabulous life to hide the fact that she is missing the one thing she wants most (take a wild guess what that is).  Even the most jaded of you will leave these movies with a sparkle of romance ignited in you.  By no means a "chick-flick" set, this is a collection not to be missed by fans and movie lovers alike.  A great set--don't miss it!  If you want more Hepburn movies along the same plot lines, check out "Funny Face" (with Fred Astaire), "Charade" (with Cary Grant; this was recently re-made with Mark Wahlberg under the title "The Truth About Charlie") & "My Fair Lady" (with Rex Harrison).  To explore more of Hepburn's range in acting, I'd recommend "The Nun's Story" (awesome!), "The Children's Hour" (with a young Shirley MacLaine), and "Wait Until Dark" (super, super film!).