I'm 38 year old man, and all I have to say is that this movie spoke to me. Warner brothers is likely to get my money at least a couple more times before it leaves the theater and then again when it comes to DVD. I'm not going to expose plot points or anything like that you can read other reviews for that stuff. I'm more putting this here for the folks that are reading their own ideas into what they saw when they saw this movie. if your looking for certain things and then interpret those things a certain way, you're going to find them, good and bad. there's nothing wrong with and environmental message. we as humans are the top of the food chain, so to speak, but we sure don't act that way most of time. it is our responsibility to conserve, save and share this planet, be it with penguins or otherwise. we share this earth with a million other beautiful creatures. it's not just ours, it's theirs too, they live here too, they're not alien beings taking up our space, they were put here same as you and me, earthlings. as far as folks reading in religious, racial, sexual etc., stereotypes and otherwise, go ahead and check any of the latest pixar(no knock to pixar, just an example) and you'll find the same. as far it not all being for kids, go ahead and check out some old tom and jerry, there's about 20 times more violence in one 3 minute cartoon than in Happy Feet. Yes there are some scary moments but that's where the movie gives you a dose of reality as any one of you who have seen march of the penguins knows. If you think they're (WB) going to let a silly thing getting eaten get in the way of our hero saving the day, then you might as well walk out. Sure there are few sad moments too, but any of you seen Bambi and Finding Nemo? Hey man I'm a big cry baby myself.  the biggest message I found in Happy Feet was that there's nothing wrong with being different and pursuing your own thing, that one thing just might end up saving the world one day, maybe not the whole world, but maybe your world. That's another cool thing about this movie, in spite of all the hard times Mumble is handed for being different, he doesn't back down for a second, misfit or not, he stays true to what he feels inside, if that's not being cool, then I don't know what is. So for all of you knocking this great movie with a great message, let's just calm down a bit and take it for what it is, some great family entertainment. if you take your kids and choose to explain certain items about the movie a certain way, that's on you, not Warner brothers. remember, if you look for bad, you're going to find bad. I find most movies to be up for ones own interpretation anyway and not all are going to walk away with the same experience. if you must go ahead and ask the folks at WB if they were actually tryting to get a certain point across that you found objectionable about Happy Feet. The music is great, the dancing is great, and the baby penguins couldn't more adorable. HAPPY FEET ROCKS!