I have recieved my new copy of the CE3K DVD, and am very pleased. As far as my review, it has been my favorite movie of all time, beginning with the first time I saw it on cable in the early eighties, at the age of 10. Star Wars and all stole my heart, but this one stole my mind. I like Amazon's reviewers comment that the movie is more about the drive of artistic expression than science-fiction, and generally I was more interested in the "real-world vs the extraordinary" story line than anything regarding UFOs.
The most impressive DVD addition are the deleted scenes, most of which I had never seen. What is so interesting is that they reveal answers to so many unseen questions and results regarding the sightings in the movie!
Did you wonder what ever happened after the "AirEast 31" landed? How about what was going on in Tolono? What the cops really thought about the UFO chase? What did Roy's neighbors think about his sighting? How did Roy and Jillian, while running from the Feds, "get some gas and get down in there?" These scenes, while not altogether vital, wouldve added even more interest to the fabric of the film. As deleted scenes, they are gems.
Among the scenes are several from the original release but not in the special edition or the collectors edition. These include the first part of Roy in the Power Plant and the scene in Wyoming with "Appolo Creed" Carl Weathers telling Roy that the Army shoots looters...The Mother Ship interior is also a deleted item. There is even a hilarious outtake with Truffaut and Balaban that certainly didnt make the first cut, and definitely shows Truffaut's humor! The fabulous documentary (an edited version is on the VHS tape) also includes outtakes, and hilarious production stories.
However, my only complaints were that there are even MORE deleted scenes that were not included:
The alternate intro to seeing Roys family with the Pinocchio figurine; The scene where the farmer on the road says "We're years ahead of 'em on the highway'; Where Roy sees Devils Tower in the pillowcase; and Lacombe's standing ovation. There possibly were more, but that's from memory. These are minor, but are needed to complete the extras.
Also, to make this edition complete, a Music Score only track would have enhanced the role of John William's music, and of course, a commentary from Spielberg himself, but we all know he doesn't do that sort of thing. Maybe for the next "Collector's Special Ultimate Edition"!