I am about 50. And I have a fairly large DVD collection and before that LD (never collected VHS). I have a TIVO and have had one for about 9 years. I am always looking for more good films. So with that background understand that I have been fortunate enough to see many classic films in the theatre, or on cable or SAT. Without commercials(the ONLY way to watch anything).
I am a John Wayne fan and a fan of westerns.  I like a lot of different ones- from Stagecoach (both versions) to Clint Eastwoods new ones to Peckinpah and Fords.

And this movie is MY FAVORITE WESTERN.  I like most of John Waynes films from the late 40s on. And most westerns from that time on. Earlier then that not much.

With that background in mind here is my review:

I had this film on LD for years and upgraded to DVD.
I watch it on a projection screen with a pretty good home theatre so its like watching it in a real picture palace (except no bratty kids or chewing gum stuck on the seats).
The opening score and song are classic; the pictures (painted by The Swede-Thorntons gunsmith friend) rival Remmington at his best.
For those that remember the TV Series "How The West was Won" of the late 70s this opening score and paintings are just as good.

The Duke is a top gun man for hire; not young and he knows it. He is about to take a job from Bart Jason (Ed Asner) but the local sheriff finds him first. He is an old friend. And Cole Thornton finds out that the job is to kill his old friend. Needless to say Cole tells Jason where he can stick his job.
Unfortunately a well meaning friend has told the ultimate target of jason that Thornton is here after him and his family and a tragedy occurrs that will have ramifications for the entire movie.
the First half hour of this film sets up the rest in all ways. And does a pretty good job of it.
In many ways this is as complete a film as you could ask for- and they do it without voice over which is a real mark in its favor as regards allowing the viewer to make up his mind and figure it out all on his own.
John Wayne in this film really starts to accept the aging process. There are good bits here and there that show this. Mitchum does as well but not to the same degree (of course Mitchum was younger so....)
There are so many good little scenes and the supporting charactors are all very well fleshed out-with the exception of Jason (but this bad guy is just simply a greedy man wanting power and willing to have others do the killing for him- which is smart since the one time he does pick up a gun it does not turn out well for him).
This is a remake of Rio Bravo- but I am not alone in thinking that this is just as good and in some areas better (no singing, no Ricky Nelson).
Angie Dickinson is a little better then Charlene Holt, but then her part is also much bigger. James Caan is PERFECT as the young green kid who cannot shoot straight. Arthur Hunnicut is to me frankly better as the crotchety old Deputy. Michele Carey has a great part as a cowgirl who is a top shot (which Cole Thornton finds out the hard way)= she is an actress who sadly never got enough parts = I think she could have been a real star. Christopher George plays the Top Gun on the other side- and how his part is handled shows the master craftsman Howard Hawks at his best. He took care for such a relatively small part to flesh out it and the charactor very well without using much screen time.
If you like westerns you will love this film. If you like John Wayne you will love this film.  If you like films that were made by master craftsmen like Howard Hawks with a cast as good as you can ask for and dialogue well fitted you will love this film.