BATMAN AND ROBIN (1997)

  Warner Bros.

 Release Date: June 12, 1997 (Los Angeles, California)(premiere)

  June 20, 1997 (USA)

  Runtime: 125 minutes

  Directed by:

  Joel Shcumacher

  Produced by:

  Peter Macgregor-Scott....producer

  Michael E. Uslan....executive producer

  Cast:

  George Clooney....Bruce Wayne/Batman

  Chris O'Donnell....Dick Grayson/Robin

  Arnold Schwarzenegger....Dr. Victor Fries/Mr. Freeze

  Uma Thurman....Dr. Pamela Isley/Poison Ivy

  Alicia Silverstone....Barbara Wilson/Batgirl

  Michael Gough....Alfred Pennyworth

  Pat Hingle....Commissioner Gordon

  Jeep Swenson....Bane

  Elle Macpherson....Julie Madison

  PLOT SUMMARY:

  This was the third follow-up to Tim Burton's "BATMAN" (1989), the original revisionist look at the Gotham City legend, as well as the second in the Batman series directed by Joel Schumacher and the first featuring George Clooney as the Caped Crusader; it features not one but two super-villains, and a new heroine to fight crime alongside Bruce(Batman)Wayne and Dick(Robin)Grayson.

  The experiments of Dr. Victor Fries to preserve his late wife cryogenically have gone terribly wrong, turning him into the evil genius Mr. Freeze, who must keep his bod at sub-zero temperature in order to stay alive -- and he wants to put Gotham City on ice. Shy horticulturist Pamela Isley goes a bit wild with a Venus Fly Trap-like creation she's been working on and mutates into Poison Ivy, who wants to kill all the people on Earth so plants can take over. Can Batman and Robin stop these fiends before their plans go too far? Meanwhile, Bruce and Dick's faithful butler Alfred isn't feeling well, so his niece Barbara comes to pay a visit. When Barbara finds out what her uncle's employers do in their spare time, she decides she wants in on the action, and she joins the crimefighting twosome as Batgirl.

  Trivia: "BATMAN AND ROBIN" features Jesse Ventura in a small role as a prison guard. It would be his last film role before becoming Governor of Minnesota in 1998.