Mickey Spillane, the man whose book was mangled in this film, purportedly said he never had anyone with a mustache in his stories because he didn't know how to spell it; he said the same about attache, as in attache case.  Regardless, being a slavish adherent of Spillane's writings, the first two times I watched the movie KISS ME DEADLY I felt aggrieved at what the writer/director team had done to Spillane's personalized private eye concept.

Those who've read the book can see the skeleton of Spillane's novel shaping key scenes in the film: the girl in the raincoat running down the highway in the opening frames; Hammer tied face down on a bed for a long while; the fiery conclusion (the book and the movie's endings differ vastly but both involve fire).  The end is not the only time the film diverges from the novel; Meeker could've played a great Mike Hammer in another vehicle than this, but he's not Mike Hammer in this particular role other than in name only; likewise Pat and Velma whose last names are changed in the script. I thought it out of character Meeker's Hammer didn't fetch the mechanic a crack upside the chops the second time he uttered, 'Va va voom!"

But it doesn't kill the movie, I like it as a standalone entity.  I've watched it four or five times now.  It grew on me, not perfect but enjoyable enough to re-watch every few years.  I'd rather live in a world that had the book AND the film rather one with just the book.

KISS ME DEADLY uses the most standard and unimaginative camera angles, like it was filmed in a hurry over a long weekend, however it is wonderfully photographed with foregrounds and backgrounds in startlingly crystal clear focus.  I'd venture the fact alone that the movie was shot in b&w is what categorically makes it a noir classic.  BLADE RUNNDER and CHINATOWN have hazy, often drab color palettes and they're much more noir than KISS ME DEADLY despite not being filmed in b&w.

Nor is KISS ME DEADLY in the the same league as THE BIG SLEEP and MALTESE FALCON, but it is a solid entry in the history of Hollywood noir.