Adam Gibson is an average guy living in the near-future (2015 according to Schwarzenegger). It's a nice place to live in. Cars can drive themselves, holograms are commonplace, helicopters can turn into jets and pistols fire lasers. But the most important difference is the widespread use of cloning technology. If your pet dies why not get it cloned? It's mind can be uploaded into a computer chip as long as it's still fresh and then downloaded into the cloned body through the eyes. The pet's back, good as new, and nobody could tell the difference. Of course a human mind is supposedly too complex for this procedure and human cloning is illegal anyway. However a corporation is secretly cloning humans as a way to achieve immortality, with the best intentions of course. No one wants to die and a clone is essentially the same person as the original.

This time they've made a bit of a booboo and they've cloned poor Adam Gibson while he's still alive. The poor guy comes home after a long day's work to find that he's already there. And to top it off people are trying to kill him and no matter how many times he kills the assassins they keep coming back. It's up to Adam to get his life back, defeat the bad guys and think of some witty one-liners to say while doing it.

The 6th Day raises some interesting metaphysical questions. If a person's mind can be stored in a computer chip and copied endlessly, is there really such a thing as a soul? Is a clone the same person as the original, considering they have exactly the same personality and memories? Is this really a triumph over death or just a delusion based on downloaded memories?

Some people have complained that this movie shows a very unrealistic portrayal of cloning. It involves an adult-sized fetus which is injected with the DNA of the person being cloned and then left to develop into that person before having the person's mind downloaded into its brain. The scriptwriters seemed to think this wasn't much different from today's cloning which kinda ruins the movie's message a bit but it doesn't really matter. The 6th Day is a great action-packed thriller for lovers of sci-fi and Schwarzenegger.