I've concluded that Revenge of the Fallen failed with the critics and a handful of internet geeks due to a lack of first-hand knowledge with the material.  The movie was never intended to be a masterful work of cinematic art but rather a fun, metal on metal adventure - it's Transformers, not Sophie's Choice.  I'm not in the theater for a touching human drama, or up-scale humor [however the Twins are a little too overblown and annoying I must admit]. I'm there for a realistic version of Saturday morning adventure - and Revenge of the Fallen delievers.

The 'supposed' plot holes are actually just threads where a lack of elaboration on the writer's part, of which they've even admitted on the commentary, failed to explain themselves to the general audience. When the Writers Strike hit, the plot of the movie was jumbled together from an initial outline, and then of course, the oh-so-famous curse of too many hands in the cookie jar.  Directorial compromises, Producer requests, etc. So I can see where people had a tiff or two, but for those of us who read the Marvel Comics run know about the abstract use of the Matrix of Leadership. (We also aren't tweens or ignorant critics who don't realize the Matrix of Leadership pre-dated Keanu Reeves by 13 years.) Those of us who read Dreamwave's War Within: The Dark Ages were familiar with The Fallen.  And most importantly - any fan who, like me, still watches the Gen 1 cartoon and digs multi-part episodes like 'Five Faces of Darkness' know that a good Transformer tale is nothing more than a race between good and evil to get their hands on the object in question.

For a Transfan, the movie has a treasure trove of nods to the mythology - Soundwave & Ravage, the use of Combiner/Gestalt technology, Pretender technology, Power-Up technology, the crashed Nemesis, the Matrix of Leadership, and Megatron finally gets his arm canon - sort of.

For anyone who hasn't seen the movie, ignore the criticism and instead use your own judgement.  If you like the Transformer brand and look for new stories, check out this flick.  If you just want to watch something you think you'll like, or expect to hate for that matter, don't bother. If you are curious, though, and want to bone up your mythology beforehand, read The Transformers issues #1-12 from 1980s, War Within: The Dark Ages, and watch the classic 1986 animated movie.  Then you'll be prepared for Revenge of the Fallen.