Zack and Miri is by far the worst Kevin Smith movie of all time.
It's so bad, it's actually worth 10 minutes of my time to write about on Amazon.

I really hope Kevin Smith himself reads this review.
I'm a big Kevin Smith fan and have been since day one of clerks. When I saw this in the theater on opening night, I was actually embarrassed to be a associated with Smith and his writing as a fan!!! It's THAT bad. Kevin Smith has finally become the worthless hack that he jokingly paints himself as in his Q and A lectures.
This is the first time in history that Smith's raunchy vision and writing come across as
cringe inducing and just plain unfunny. It's like he had a checklist of hackneyed  Smith-isms and tried to pass it off as a film. Cock joke, poop joke, Star Wars reference, Mewes does something stupid, cock joke, poop joke, silly adolescent nick name come to surface, cock joke, Mewes does something stupid, Star Wars reference, main character gets jealous because of a sexual hang up, cock joke, roll credits!!!

Jersey Girl is a masterpiece compared to this! In fact, Zack and Miri SOOOO BAD that it's not even worth the 700 mb of space for a free torrent download!! And this is coming from
an actual Smith fan!! That's pretty friggin bad! Seriously, it's not even worth a free download. Kevin Smith needs an official "you're becoming a hack" intervention. Or maybe he already knows and just can't stop it.

I have one question for Kevin Smith after watching his movies for half my life.
Here it goes: How come the main characters in your stories do nothing but think and talk the raunchiest stuff imaginable, only to freak out and get bent out of shape when a love interest ACTUALLY DOES SOMETHING RAUNCHY!!!!!?? It's like your characters are sexual posers!! In ALL Smith's films when it comes to sex and raunch they can all talk the talk but they can't walk the walk. Maybe this is done on purpose as some kind of subconscious catholic guilt garbage that Smith adheres to. It's like Kevin Smith, the genius smut master of our generation, doesn't really have a clue as to what it means to really be "kinky" and "sexually open minded". Zack and Miri is the epitome of this.
After an ENTIRE plot of sex, porn and raunch, the story take a lame, sappy turn when she feels Zach slept with another women. ......AT THE WRAP PARTY OF A PORNO MOVIE!!  I almost stormed out the theater. C'MON KEVIN SMITH, either your characters are open minded sexual freaks, or they are not. Pick one!!  Arrrrgggg!!

In conclusion, I will no longer pay for a Kevin Smith movie in an actual theater or dvd rental/purchase, I'll just wait for a free download.
Don't get me wrong, I still am a "fan" of Kevin Smith, but Zack and Miri is death knell for his career and my hard earned cash on his stories.