Bedtime Stories is almost really good.  In fact, it's almost really a lot of things.  For instance, it's almost really a good movie for kids and almost really funny. It's not quite good, funny, or a movie for kids, but it comes so darn close.

Here is what works in Bedtime Stories:

Bedtime Stories stars Adam Sandler, who is always likable though generally inane and crude as well. In this case, Sandler toned down the frat-house humor that so hollowed the movie Click.  He turns in his usual affable performance in Bedtime Stories.

Russell Brand, who is charismatic though not very versatile, also comes on strong as Sandler's quirky friend.

Richard Griffiths, a.k.a. Vernon Dursley of Harry Potter fame, and Courtney Cox also turn in a decent performances... but don't look for any of them to receive an Oscar any time soon.

The storyline is great fun--Skeeter Bronson (Sandler) is lowly but talented schlep satisfied with a work-a-day job in a growing hotel.  His life is changed when he agrees to take in his sister's two children while she applies for work in another state.

When Skeeter begins making up bedtime stories for the kids, he finds his inventions coming true in the real world.  A good premise.

So why is Bedtime Stories only "almost" good?

In the tradition of all things Sandler, Bedtime Stories falls back on tried and true silliness instead of trusting itself.  The movie includes a string of jokes about a hamster with over-sized eyes.  Fortunately, Disney, of course, stripped out the crude humor that so often shows up in Sandler movies.

The additional cast.  I'm sorry but the formula Sandler and Keri Russell did not work.  They did not play off each other.  Sandler and Drew Barrymore had energy.  Sandler and Julie Bowen were great.  Sandler and Russell... not so much.

In addition, Sandler has this pathological need to keep an entourage of auxiliary cast member--most notably and dependably bad would be Rob Schneider but there are others.

In the end, Bedtime Stories is mildly fun and predictably happy.  For this movie, Disney has taken the edge off Sandler without giving him substance.