Fans of jackie's foreign films have been spoiled by the intense
fight scenes he and his stunt-team are capable of orchestrating.
Some may speculate that jackie has slowed down with age, gotten
soft, or too affluent to risk life and limb for film. He's proven
himself in the past countless times and is just taking it easy
now. Of course he's slowed down. Of course he's got more years
of bone twisting antics behind him than ahead of him, but he's
not as slow as this film depicts him. Compare what he did in im-
port movie gorgeous to the origional rush-hour which preceded it
to assuage any doubts. Unfortunately for jackie and us, hollywood
finaced projects shall never afford him the freedom to compose
the comedic action sequences which make him a kicking legend. He
always speaks of how he and his stunt-team are black-listed from
the ledgers of all insurance companies. They simply resign them-
selves to make the most innovative fights and stunts possible as
they accept the financial burden of injuries that may occur to
the crew. That doesn't fly in america. Major studios must adhere
to unions and comply with regulated safety codes that meet the
requirements of the mandatory insurance for actor's and crew.
Studios are becoming more lenient with actor's performing their
own stunts, but are no-where near their overseas counterparts.
Jackie's two decade plus expertise in fight execution is neutered
by protocol of conglomerates who don't want any lawyers digging
in their flushed pockets. Even knowing all of this going into this film didn't prepare me for how horrible it is. Finding holes
in the script is pointless in this sort of film. You shouldn't
expect layered characters or an inventive storyline. You should
expect a laughs and melliflous duels which make you wish rewinding a scene was possible. Chris tucker is given the task of
mandatory ad-libbing to fill the holes of the script and make up
for jackie's limited english( not a slam, he speaks infinitely
better english than I do mandarin or cantonesse) skills. Tucker
is only funny on an average of 1 out of every 10 attempts. His
failure isn't completely his fault. Ratner's willingness to allow
him to fail miserably in his endeavor to chuk out energetic im-
provisations as if he were eddie murhpy in 48hrs. meets axl foley
is atrocious. Tucker isn't murphy, and even if he were he'd still
need a tolerable script, and more verbal freedom than the fiscal
friendly PG-13 safety net offers. Ratner either over-estimated
tucker's ability, or was prescient enough to realize that it
wouldn't hurt the box-office. Jackie's desire to succeed in america has resulted in films that aren't even worthy of him making a cameo. I don't think he's trying to cash in. He's just
trying to do what he loves for the biggest audience possible.
Hopefully all of his neo-phyte fans will dig into his archives
and seek out his future foreign produced works.