First off, I would like to give my hat off to Eddie Kendricks, Paul Williams, Melvin Franklin, Dennis Edwards and the one and only David Ruffin for making the Temptations the greatest male group of all time. Even though I never met you guys and you left either before I was born or was almost too young to really know about y'all, I miss you.

Second, HOW DARE OTIS WILLIAMS make a movie that focused on the "screw-ups" by his "brothers" and yet he portrayed himself and Melvin as "the good guys". I'm sure Melvin was the best person to be around but I hear about Otis being a snake and snitch and I think Melvin wasn't even that much of a passive man either. Over the years since I've watched it, I've gotten more of an appreciation for their music than for the story that was shown. Nothing in the movie added up to anything.

For instance, the lead singer of Otis Williams & the Distants was Richard Street, who ironically sung co-lead for the Temptations from 1971 to 1992. Also, the Primes were actually THREE band members - Eddie, Paul and Kel Williams. Third, there was never a RIVALRY between the Primes and Distants as far as I know though people could tell you that Paul had a problem with Elridge. Also, it was Otis, not Melvin, who got Eddie and Paul to form the group that became the Temptations. What's the matter, Otis? You didn't want to take credit for something you actually did right? Also, when did the Primes and Primettes perform together? NEVER! Plus, there were FOUR Primettes (Diane Ross, Florence "Flo" Ballard (or Blondie), Mary Wilson and Betty McGlown) and they dressed in school uniforms or sock hops, not the glamorous dresses that were in the movie. Also, Otis cheated with Josephine on not only Flo but he fooled around with Patti Labelle. He was never a faithful husband or father, as Lamont told him during a basketball game.

The confusion over what caused Eldridge "Al" to leave can be solved here - Paul was the one tired of a show and wanted to rest. Al wanted to go back out there and Paul said "we'll all be wasted" and Al got mad and threw a beer bottle at Paul (I think it hit his face unlike the version shown in the movie). But he wasn't fired quickly or he didn't quit after that. It was actually at a Motown CHRISTMAS party where Al and Paul got at it again and after being warned by the others, Al suddenly bolted. Who knows if David performed with them afterwards at another party but what is clear is that David Ruffin signed a contract to officially state he was the new member of the Temptations. The boys didn't assign David, he had to have a contract as did Cindy Birdsong when she joined the Supremes. They couldn't just assign singers now that they were under a label.

Little is known of Al and he's only shown one more time at a bar drinking in misery after seeing his old friends become superstars without him. He did have a family and all and when he died, he was survived by his wife and kids. Anyway, onto more of this mixed-up story. What I didn't get is how the movie portrayed the bad sides of David, Eddie and Paul as if they had a streak and Otis didn't. In fact, David's volatile nature after the Tempts became superstars was only one third of how Mr. Ruffin was. My favorite scene in the movie is actually when David is confronted by Otis and Melvin over missing dates in concerts and recording sessions (I don't even think he missed most of them, he might've been late to some, but hey) and when Otis said "they come to see us" and David shot back "they're not coming to see YOU, Otis", I fell out laughing. And really, you can sense Otis still has a deep sense of jealousy for David and Eddie because they were in fact THE voices of the Tempts as they said. It wasn't not like an ego trip, it's the actual truth. Melvin was the bass, Paul was the heart and soul and Eddie & David were the voices. Dennis was, of course, the grit. But Otis? He was... he was... uh... oh yeah that's right, a lap dog to Berry Gordy.

Anyway, I also didn't like how Eddie was seen as this punk who whined about this and that. From what I got in fan accounts of the man, he was probably the most well-aware and independent member of the group. He had opinions and he could tango with you if you dare him. The way he was perceived vocally was also disrespectful. Eddie Kendricks was a falsetto AND second tenor. He in fact can sing in a deeper tone. He sure paved the way for Phillip Bailey. Eddie was also one of the group's only songwriters during their '60s period. Eddie has been getting disrespected for many years, it's really unfair of how he was treated especially at the end of the movie as he was "a footnote" when Mama Rose Franklin asked what had happened to Eddie. The world? I mean, what's up with "what was it that got Eddie?" LIKE EDDIE WASN'T EVEN IMPORTANT OR SOMETHING TO HIM!?!

Also, Dennis Edwards and David Ruffin had a profound respect for each other. In fact, David himself let it be known that Dennis was to replace him. I don't even know if David went into a temper after learning of his departure from the group. He probably knew his ego and his dreams were getting in the way and he just saw it as a way to go solo "but I'll be back" in a sense. And in certain times, the group did introduce David to sing with them on certain times. Otis was always jealous with David for obvious reasons. I'm sure they fought but Otis probably encouraged it. It's like he was a bully talking about "nyah, nyah, I got you out of my group".

Which leads me to the saccharine scene of Otis and his cancer-riddled mommy talking. When his mom told him he was not only a success as a singer but also a success as a "man", I almost hurled. This just let me to believe Otis really cared about himself. No way did he handle himself like a man. And I also didn't like how they had Mama Rose saying Otis kept "the family together". No matter how much he did to keep the group franchise afloat, the "family" was really him, Melvin (or "Blue"), David, Paul and Eddie. And the "family" never recovered after Paul's 1973 death, which to some, remains a mystery. We're still left to say that Paul committed suicide after a drunken stupor. They set the scene up beautifully but after I read something about Paul ACTUALLY GETTING WELL and WANTING TO WORK ON MUSIC, I got ticked off.

Now I'm less convinced that Paul wanted to kill himself even if he was a drunk or not (Eddie, I think, said Paul was really working on recovery). Plus, even when he got kicked out of the group, Paul STILL was giving the band choreography lessons. So something about the Paul Williams story in the movie led me with a bad taste in my mouth especially when it was shown only two Temptations were seen at the funeral when all the members were there to give their final respects to him. And also, Paul had a crippling disease that forced him out of the group, it sure as hell wasn't drinking. Because if it was alcoholic problems, then that's just foul. You could've least gave the dude HELP or sent him into DETOX... OTIS or BERRY or SHELLY or anyone of y'all.

They also never focused on the true friendship of Eddie and David. I think the brothers were kindred soul mates musically and as "brothers". In fact, Eddie and David were like big brother (Eddie)-little brother (David). Their friendship lasted until David's untimely death in 1991 and from what I know, the death would cause Eddie to die suddenly the next year. And also, the years are wrong again in the later half:

Eddie and David reunited for a performance in 1985 at Live Aid. In the movie, they reunited...in 1980... at some... bar. Then they decided to form a group called Ruffin-Kendrick. Around 1989, after the band were inducted to the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame, Dennis Edwards teamed up with the two of them to form Ruffin-Kendrick-Edwards. The movie version had them teaming up while the Temptations reunited with Motown, which WAS in 1980. The actual 1989 Rock & Roll Hall of Fame induction of the Temptations was different from the movie version. In the movie version, Otis is seen hugging Eddie and David. In reality, Eddie, David and Dennis ignored Otis but hugged Melvin. And they actually had speeches I believe.

They made David's death look like a crime scene when he died of an overdose. He was actually carried to the hospital and he addressed himself of who he was before taking one last breath and died. And another miscalculation: MELVIN DIED IN HIS OWN HOME WITH HIS WIFE NEAR HIM! They made it seem like Otis and Mama Rose were there with Melvin at their home when he died while getting baby back ribs. WHAT IS WRONG WITH OTIS, MAN? I swear, man, it was more screwed up than factual. The only reasons to really catch this movie are the following:

1.) The Music
2.) The Performances
3.) The Last Final Great Scene of "The Classic 5" performing "My Girl" the way it's done

Other than that, if you hate saccharine drama and improper "facts", skip this movie, but if you want to know about the musical history of the group and Motown, buy it just on that purpose, please?

It also presents rare old Temptations tunes like "Mother of Mine", "I Want a Love I Can See" and another song I forgot the name of that Eddie did and of course standards like "The Way You Do...", "My Girl", "The Girl's Alright with Me", "You're My Everything", "Ball of Confusion", "Cloud Nine", "Ain't Too Proud to Beg", "Beauty is Only Skin Deep", "Get Ready" and "Papa Was a Rollin' Stone". And for Eddie fans, snippets of "Boogie Down" and "Keep On Truckin'".

So if you happen to like anything from the movie, let it be the music and let the Temptations sing on and on as long as we want them to.