Finally somebody has a made film about what it was to be gay in the 80s.  This is the film John Hughes should have made right after Pretty in Pink.  And for all intents and purposes, this is what this film is: a gay John Hughes film.  Okay, somebody else had to make it for him fifteen years later, but we can let that pass. :-)
I'm an 80s fan so I know my 80s music, I know 80s haircuts, and I know 80s clothes.  Guess what: they got it all right in this film.  Aesthetically and musically, this was an entirely perfect film.  You'd have to push someone's nose into the fine print on the jewelcase to prove it wasn't made in the 80s.  
Another thing I appreciate about this film is its subtle interplay between two subcultures during this era -- gay culture as well as New Wave culture.  The music here isn't what the Top 40 stations were playing then, and the clothes the main character wears are not what everybody was donning at high school.  The main character is attracted to New Wave culture and style as a means to express his identity as a gay male.  In doing so, he in effect becomes a double minority.  People begin to shun him not only for his sexuality but for his appearance and tastes.  This synthesis of subcultures is what spoke to me most about this film.  I wonder if anybody will ever approach it again.
I gave this film four stars instead of five due to the lacking acting ability on the part of the college guy.  It was really dreadful.  In fact, none of the acting was strong here, but at the same time, keep in mind this is meant to be an predominantly upbeat film so this does not ruin the experience by any means.  They're seeking to create a faux John Hughes film.  Enough said.
We know this plot already, and have heard it over and over again.  But Edge creates a space for itself by exploring the same question in the 1980s, when coming out really was the proverbial "big deal."  And by using the cultural landscape of the 1980s as the backdrop for the tale, it tells other stories as well.
If you're a gay Gen-X'er who listened to OMD, draped yourself in black, had spiked hair, wore Creepers, and used eyeliner, this is your life.