Surprisingly this film is over 40 years old, and still captures one's imagination and attention. As a child, i was too young to see the film in the theaters, tho i do remember the film making it's TV debut, as it was a big deal for some reason back then.

Seeing it on a black and white tv set dampered things a bit, as i thought that because of the grand scale the production seemed to possess that it was filmed in color. I was taken aback when i found out it was filmed in black and white. I only remembered at the time the dark scenes around the house, Bette Davis slowly deteriorating, and the 'mirror' scene near the end of the film  with Davis confronting her dead 'ex lover'. Well, kinda. Won't give the ending away. Otherwise, it was scary all in all to me.

It took years of waiting and seeing the film on different TV stations to finally get a video version of the film, which was uncut. TV at the time had a strange practice of editing down films to conform to their airtime, and also the violence to not offend the easily offended, tho sometimes makes a film incomprehensible.

The violence in the film is minimal, tho the first murder is and was a shocking set-piece that sets the whole tone of the film. Unlike Joan Crawford's 'Straight-Jacket', a film that Crawford opted for after leaving Charlotte and replaced quickly by DeHavilland where ax murders continue, the initial horror is not repeated in Charlotte, but you never know, right? That's how a good horror film is made. It's not exactly what you see, it's what you think you may see.

For it's time, the film boasted a boatfull of seasoned actors, and did a very good job with the material. The cinematography isn't as smooth as one would like, but given the time-span between murders and eerie moments a viewer needs to be on one's toes.

It's a shame that the film wasn't photographed in color, but, according to Davis herself, the film would have looked like 'Gone With The Wind' if it was. DeHavilland was a superb replacement for Crawford, as her rather laid-back approach to acting played against type. She's no Melanie here, and gave another powerful performance. As for Joseph Cotten, for some reason i never did like his style of acting. Aside from his classic performance in Citizen Kane, Cotten seemed rather bored in his acting chores, and never grabbed my attention in anything else he did, including this film.

Agnes Moorehead's performance was again, against type, as she by then was famous for her portrait of the over-bearing mother-in-law in 'Bewitched'. Here, she plays a dedicated servant, who is both outspoken, and knows from the early frames that something shady is going on.

It took quite a few viewings to figure out who the actual killer was. Either i was stupid child, or because it was not actually 'said' who the killer was in a way where it seemed important at the time when Davis's character is being transported away from her home is lost.  After a few viewings it did sink in that it was Cecil Kellaway's character who did fill in the empty blanks and let us realize what was going on.

Most claim that the film's running time is rather long. One must think of the scope of the material involved, and you'll understand why it took some time to not only get to know each character, but slowly know thier intent, and importance in Charlotte's life.

The expanded DVD version persented here is a curiousity. It has a few TV and film trailers, which are superb to look at.  The quality of the film is again, superb.

I was just wondering if there was any footage of Crawford on the set, or any footage shot of her in character. Would have been nice to see what she would have looked like if she actually did the film, but, much too late now.

So, Charlotte is a classic melodrama with some horror thrown in for good measure. It's still not a film for the little kiddies, as some images may be a little disturbing, and in some areas they may become bored and fall asleep. For us adults, it's an example of good filmmaking, utilizing some of our most beloved actors.