In 1984 I was hesitant to see this film.  Being a historical drama, set in 18th Century cities and costumes, you would think it would be a chatty, dry, and uninspired (not to mention that you might expect everyone to speak in British accents).  Amadeus is none of those things.  It is an inspired film of intelligence, probing psychological depth, and gripping darkness.
I finally saw this film on VHS in 1994, a whole decade after the theatrical release, after all the hype had dissolved.
I have been a music student since I was six years old.  I've always been such an eclectic person, listening to everything from rock to classical, and absorbing myself in the lives of the great composers (Bach, Mozart, etc.)  No other life in musical history is as mysterious as Mozart's, and this film brings his life... well.... back to life.
You must understand this is a work that is hard to classify as fact or fiction.  While we all know Mozart died from a rheumatic fever, after his death rumors DID spread of a poisoning by Salieri.  The rumor was even believed by Mozart's wife Constanze (accounts of this societal gossip is found in many books of Mozart's biography).  Also, when the real-life Antonio Salieri was an old man, he was confined to an asylum, convinced that he did commit the murder (also a prooved biographical fact).  This is a fact that seems to remain overlooked.  Needless to say, the tale, Amadeus, is only rooted in the rantings of a paranoid, schizophrenic old man, rather than a true-to-life retelling of Mozart's road to his early death. But it does paint the picture of 18th Century Vienna "tabloid gossip" of Mozart's mysterious downfall.
If you do your research, you'll find out about the truth about Mozart's death, who was there at his side, who completed that Requiem Mass, etc.  But the movie, is still a treasure.  The plot is brilliant, blending fact and fiction (the word "fiction" is a little iffy) and exemplifies the ongoing debate of the popularly mediocre to the "different" genius, underestimated and underappreciated during his own time.
There is enough fact in this film to call it a historical account (e.g. Mozart's struggle with the Archbishop, domestic tension between Conztanze and her father-in-law, the banning of ballet dancing, Marie Antoinette's growing fear of her people, etc.)
Visually, this movie scores a 100% in overall artistic appeal.  Filmed in the Czech Republic, you see palaces and streets that have remained unchanged since the time Mozart was alive.  Too bad Mozart's native Salzburg and Vienna have visually changed so much over the past couple of centuries.  The beautifully preserved Nostitz Theater in the film is even the same theater where Mozart premiered his opera Il Don Giovanni in 1789, arguably the best opera yet written.  This opera (and many others) are represented in the film, carefully and masterfully choreographed by Twyla Tharp who tried, very succesfully, to recapture the dances of the 18th Century.  Even the opera sets are believably "classical."  Amadeus is cerainly a treat for the eyes, as well as the ears and mind.
This is not one of those costume films where the actors sound British.  The actors speak in North American dilect (with the exception of the actors that play the "Court people" of course) maximizing the American-viewer appeal.  The reason for the different dialects, the producers say, is because in 18th Century Europe, many dialects of one language were prevalent: "A West German would never be able to understand an East German."  
Everything in the film looks just perfect: from the number of candles in the chandeliers, to the wigs, to the music, to the way the people talk. Also, Don't miss the "Amadeus: Director's Cut" with an additional 20 minutes of original scenes that were cut in 1984.  It was in theaters and the DVD should be out soon.  It helps make the cause of the feud between Constanze Mozart and Antonio Salieri more lucid.  Plus other scenes where the financially ruined Mozart stops a piano lesson-gone-wrong, and then beggs the student's father, a nobleman, for money.  Also, the opera sequences are lengthened.  The DVD release of the Director's Cut is not to be missed.
Amadeus (1984) is also a sure hit in trying to get young children interested in musical classics, especially if your kid's complaining about his or her boring piano lessons.  It is rated PG.  The Director's Cut has been rated R for brief nudity.