One of the neat things in it were it had all kinds of cameo appearances by old OLD cartoons and movie monsters like Robbie The Robot. I don't know if you ever watched Dr. Who, but there was even a scene that had the Daleks in it screeching EXTERMINATE EXTERMINATE as they were shooting laser beams everywhere. Basically, bradon frasier plays a guy who's dad is basically the most famous actor of all time who plays a james bond type of guy. Which is funny cause they make fun of james bond movies by having movie posters of him saying titles like "the spy is me" and stupid things like that, his dad is actually played by timothy dalton, so that helped too. Anyways, he's trying to be a stuntman but can't get a job. His dad gets captured by a evil guy (head of ACME corporation) and so brandon is off to save his dad. Daffy Duck tags along because he has just been fired from warner brothers and has nothing better to do. Bugs Bunny shows up trying to convince daffy to come back to work. The evil guy is played by steve martin and he was absoluetely HORRIBLE! I mean, he was the worst acting I've seen in a long time. They should have gotten Mike Myers, or Robin Williams cast for that particular part. Steve Martin is funny, but not in this role. Anyways, in the end they rescue the dad, save the world, and blah blah blah. But it's pretty funny. Joan Cusak does an appearance as a wierd willy wonka type of scientist in a secret base in the desert called Area 52 (They explain area 51 was made up as a cover story to cover up the existance of Area 52. At area 52 is a sign that says something like "Area 52, keeping things secret from the world for 47 years" or something like that. A lot of subtle humor, I'm not sure kids would get most of it, adults will though. Kids will laugh I guess at just the cartoons on the screen, even though they don't have a clue what's going on. There's scenes in Hollywood, Las Vegas, France, and Africa. The one thing I didn't like is, since the original guy died, Mel Blanc, who did most of the voices, they haven't been able to get somebody who could do a decent Bugs Bunny voice, actually quite a few of the voices weren't that good, which is just stupid cause I knew people in high school who could do some of those characters just as good as the original guy, you're telling me that warner brothers can't find somebody who can do a dead-on bugs bunny voice, BS.