Hellsing is perhaps the best anime I've seen since Cowboy Bebop. It has action, mysterious characters, and a soundtrack that can compete with Cowboy Bebop. The main theme is simple enough. The Hellsing Family of Great Britian has guarded the Royal Family for hundreds of years from vampires and ghouls and other supernatural creatures. The family is currently head by Sir Integra Hellsing (a woman, I swear) who has the ultimate trump card: a vampire of her own. She ressurected the vampire Alucard, who serves her and hunts vampires for Hellsing. At the start of the series, Alucard rescues a young police girl named Seras, and makes her a vampire in his service. Through the course of the series they discover more and more about a plot by another organization that is creating "artificial" vampires. The series ends with Alucard fighting the strongest of them, Incognito (yes, the name is funny.)

What really makes the series is Alucard, who it is suggested is Dracula. He takes great pride in what he is, and finds the freak vampires to be disgusting abominations. Through the show, the viewer gets the impression that Alucard is bored. He spends his time trying to find a worth opponent that he can go all out against. He finds this in the form of Father Anderson, a Paladin working for a secret Vatican organization, and Incognito. But still, one feels sorry for the vampire because he is so alone. He had wiped out most of his race and can find no enjoyment in missions anymore.

Seras is a less likeable character at the start though. She has what I call "Anne Rice Vampire Syndrome" where she feels so conflicted about drinking blood and leaving her home. She does get over it, but very late in the series. The other characters are much more impressive like Integra, Anderson, and Walter, Integra's retainer. He seems like a nice old guy, but he's as ruthless as Alucard.

I really enjoyed Hellsing, but apparently Japan did not, since it was never that popular. It felt to me like the series was expected to continue, since there are so many plot holes left at the end. The ending notes seemed really tacked on, and there is so much that suggests a second season was intended. I really wish that it was, since the show could have only gotten better. The manga answers many questions, but in a way that seems cheap. But this is good DVD reguardless. The dubbing is well done, and the subtitles are accurate. The price is worth it, and if you get really into it, check out the manga.