"We decided to make the perfect anime film, one that defied all logic or reason."

And they did a pretty damn good job. Would you like to know more?

I'm not a normal anime viewer, the genre irritates, embarrasses and disappoints me most of the time. There are clear exceptions and that is why I considered the idea that REDLINE might be good after seeing a great trailer about a year ago.  And my god, I've rarely come across a film so devoid of depth that I have enjoyed SO thoroughly.

For you, reader, are one of two groups:

(1) You are NOT a general anime fan. Welcome! I'm not really either, I saw an insane trailer for REDLINE a year or so ago and thought I should check it out.  I studied film for a few years after high school and generally give even good movies are pretty hard time.  With anime I worry about tired cliche's, weird sexuality, shallow characters and convoluted, un-engaging plots. These are the exact reasons I don't watch most stuff that comes out.

Although REDLINE includes most of these elements, it does so in full self awareness and instead of being bland it ends up as one of the most entertainingly buck-nutty things I've ever seen. The sheer enthusiasm and exuberance on display in the wildly imaginative and adventurous visual presentation is infectious. It was to the point that I didn't care that I was seeing elements clearly lifted from standard anime cannon. The film clearly wasn't looking to be taken seriously, it was only looking to have fun and show it's viewers something crazy, shrugging standard genre stagnation with every line of it's hands drawn lunacy. It shirks pretension and to an extent feel remarkably 'punk' in it's rejection of tact and modesty in it's narrative. It's all crazy, all the time. That's not to say it's poorly paced, but at no point does it relax into putting something unremarkable on screen. What it does avoid, thankfully, some of the worst anime genre potholes that normally turn off everyone looking to maintain some dignity as a viewer.
If you feel you are someone that can appreciate a unique, insane, joyful and often silly anime spectacle then you MUST check out this film. It's dumb, but not for a second does it actually care. I couldn't even tell you why, but by the end I kinda cared about our silly protagonist 'Sweet J.P', his buddies or the beautiful girl of his dreams.  I guess I was just having too good of a time not too.

(2) You ARE a typical anime fan. Well frankly, I don't much trust your taste and you probably aren't reading amazon.com reviews, especially after what I said in the first two paragraphs.  :)