This is a very entertaining movie presenting the primitive culture of the Bushman in the Kalahari dessert and contrasting it to modern civilization in much of Africa during the 1980s. It also has implications on the origination of evil and crime in society and relates it to increasing technology and inequality.

The performances are excellent and the movie moves along at good pace. Although the subject matter is quite serious it is always presented in a humorous fashion. I think everyone will find it interesting, especially the beginning that focuses on the bushman culture and the Kalahari environment. For example they describe the bushman culture as having no laws, no penalties, no punishment, and no concept of personal ownership.

The introduction of a Coca Cola bottle, which was thrown from a small plane, creates problems and social chaos in their society. It causes nothing but misery and the tribe determines that the Gods must have been crazy to give it to them. First they try to bury the bottle, but through a strange set of coincidences it is found again. Next they determine that the only way to solve the problem is to walk to the end of the world and throw the bottle off the Earth. Thus begins the adventure of one of the Bushmen into communities in Africa touched by modern society.

This is in contrast to the character Miss Kate Thompson who is fleeing a large city of the modern world and desires the peace of a less advanced society. When she arrives in a remote area she is greeted by a researcher monitoring wild game. He is the source of many amusing scenes but the source of his ineptitude is his inability to relate to women. This is in contrast to the harmonious relationships in the tribe of the Bushmen.

The catalyst bringing them all together is the chaos of surrounding political upheavals which provides the setting whereby the solution to their problems comes not from advanced civilization but from the bushman.

In the end the bushman returns to his world of peace and tranquility which might provide a metaphor for our civilization without sustainable technology and resource use.