I saw the original film, which was a big hit, in my youth, and the techie story line as well as the nail-biting, heart-racing tension of the finale are still clear in my memory.  Wow.  Fantastic and powerful.  Then they do what the contemporary film industry does -- remake a great film by watering down the action and suspense, tossing in a lot of smarmy politics, stressing an ecological message, and presenting a politically-correct cast.  Add some ridiculous and sketchy sci-fi details making it obvious that those writing the script weren't all that knowledgeable about science fiction or true science.  Wormholes?  Time travel?  Coincidences?  The movie is so busy focusing on current political and social issues that the real story gets lost.  Add to that, the personal lives of the cast are explored, when that isn't at all important to the story.  It should just focus on the virus and the effort to understand, thus cure, it.  More, political correctness actually was tossed aside as it looked like several helpless animals were killed in some of the scenes.  Disgusting.  To make the film even worse, they threw in a crusading journalist played by that guy from Will & Grace, who was pretty much arrogant and conceited throughout, as if he was doing us all a favor by being there -- even though his story line was nonsensical and extraneous, could have been edited out entirely.  Was it worse or better that the main character, played by Benjamin Bratt, even ended up romancing a fellow scientist on the team?  A lot of triviality just really destroyed the concept of this story, and I honestly fell asleep the first time I watched it, missing the last hour.  Because A&E reran the film several times, I was able to catch what I'd missed, but alas, it was just as bad as the other three hours.  You don't end up caring about the characters or worrying about the plague.  The baby was cute, though.  And it seemed somehow unfair that the scientist who betrayed them all in the end, getting two of the cast killed, walked away scott-free.