Ferris Bueller (Matthew Broderick) is a kind of hero to every high-school aged young adult out there. He's the kind of guy whom we all want to be, really. He acts like he doesn't have a care in the world, and lives life to fullest. The opposite of this guy would be his best friend Cameron Frye (Alan Ruck), a sort of uptight worrywart who deserves to be brought out of his shell by the easygoing Ferris. In this film, Ferris fakes out his parents into calling it another "sick" day for him, his ninth to be exact. In order to convince just about everyone that he is really sick, he consults his collection of electronic sound effect equipment for the process. Another antithesis of Ferris is his life-is-not-fair sister Jeannie(Jennifer Grey) who suspects something is up, as does the sly-but-not-so-slick Dean of Students, Ed Rooney (Jeffrey Jones).

It's funny how so many trains of thoughts seem to dominate this movie and in the events that happen For instance, Ferris says that he has to keep coming up with new illnesses in order to make 10 sick days. It's amazing; people, like his parents who are most easily duped, would think that this one sick kid when in reality, he's having a ball. However, knowing that if he gets cauught and may not graduate, he decides to make this one count and be worthwhile. Ferris and Cameron bail out Ferris' girl Sloane (Mia Sara) with a dead grandmother ploy, and together the trio spend the day doing the town in Chicago driving the '61 GT convertible (Oh, yeah!). This movie has a special message and feeling to it that's as old as time. It's about conquering fears mostly and just really appreciating life. For after all, as our hero says: "Life moves pretty fast; if you don't stop to take a look every once in a while, you might miss it." That's the moral of the story, really.

"Bueller...Bueller...Bueller?" Not here, but he'll be there in your own home sharing his funny but wise philosophies of life, and showing you how to open your eyes in making the most of every day.