I owned Tucker #19.  My father purchased the auto in 1959 for 1250.00.  He gave it to me right before the movie premier in 1988 due to his failing health, along with many other of his classic autos.  I was the sole female owner of a Tucker for many years.  It brought me much fame and attention. I drove it to many different events in No California and had a blast. My dad always got a kick out of seeing our videos of the places we drove the car.  She never let me down and  besides paint, and ulpolstery, tires and battery... she was just as she came out of the plant back in 1948. I let the San Diego Auto Museum show the car for the past 8 years.

#19 was in our family for over 50 years before I recently sold it for an offer I could not refuse, well over the million dollar mark.  My dad told me , kinda tongue in cheek, " if anyone ever offers you a million dollars for that car ... take it!! and I got even more.. and it went to a good home because it was not sold at auction... I got to pick who I sold it to.....and there were many offers and interested buyers!!!.. I can  hear my dad snickering.

Some of the best memories I have is the time I spent with my dad during the filming of the movie in San Francisco and Oakland.  He was late showing up to the set so when they asked who was driving Tucker #19 I had to raise my hand.  Needless to say their first comment was "you cant drive a Tucker "your a woman". And in 1948 that was almost true... but if they wanted  #19 in the movie that day... I was their only driver! The got 26 of the original 51 cars on the set for the movie, many with thier owners as drivers.  I did not want to tell anyone at that point I had NEVER driven the car yet? So off to make up I went... only to come out looking like "mommie dearest" with my red lipstick and hair done up.  I was so pleased to to see my dad arrive upon my return from make-up !  He was rushed off to be suited up in proper attire and so when "drivers" were called to the cars ... I just jumped in the passenger seat and no one told me to get out... it would be a waste of a lot of red lipstick and nice floppy hat. So I got to spend the day with my Dad drivng in his Tucker in a great movie.  So in the scene that the Tuckers are driving outside the courthouse.... you will see the rim of my hat...in the blue Tucker.  Thats me and my dad!!!

To review the movie... I think it was a very good and truthful account of the Tucker history.  Anyone who enjoyed the film should go to the Tucker
Automobile Club of America and join... you will learn so much about the car and thier hisory.  The movie did not get the attention it deserved... but Jeff was a great Preston Tucker and Francis Ford Coppola has owned a Tucker since the 70's and without his drive to make the movie with Lucus Films... our Tuckers would not be selling in the millions now! He made the movie entertaining.... even to people who were not "car people".  Great movie!!!