I am writing to protest this review. Has Amazon no standards. The reviewer HAS NOT SEEN the DVD!! He says so twice. He's proud of it. What he's contributed is a free political ad. I'm shocked and disgusted.

what the hell?, October 2, 2004

Reviewer:  Black Wesley (Vancouver) - See all my reviews

What the hell is everyone's problem? Oh no it's bunch of liberal propaganda bs. What about Bush? He has not told the truth since the beginning. I haven't seen this movie. But I know it's the same as others, and I have already look at facts and the lies about what Bush has done for our country. Let's get things straight Bush is a corrupt politican. Haven't any of you read this stuff in the bible about the corrupt politics with the Romans? It's the same thing. If anything Bush is the one spreading propaganda. Now, I have nothing to say about this movie. I haven't seen it. But...i can't believe there some people writing reviews about this condeming it when they haven't seen it. Such as the member "James S. Ewing I am job". I bet he hasn't seen it. I know because everyone does the same thing to other films like the documentary Outfoxed or Fahrenheit 9/11. It's riddiculus. Don't say anything bad about the movie if you haven't seen it. And I can't believe that about 61 out of 66 people think that his review was helpful. Are we all insane? Can't we all figure out that Bush is corrupt and that he has a connection to the saudi's and al-quada? Can't we all look at the facts and realize that we have more troops in Iraq then we do in Afghanstain? We should be in afghanstain more to find Osma bin Laden. But we're not. We don't have that many troops. This is riddiculus. Let's get something straight, please see the movie before you say anything. See it and decide for yourself what his true and think of the questions that we should really ask to our president. Cause he's gotta lot of explaning to do. Right now, I am going to calm down and go see this movie and actually see if it was good or not. Thank you.

Was this review helpful to you?  (Report this)