It all started here.  George Romero launched a personal trilogy of classics, a new zombie genre and the idea of good old successful low budget horror movies.  The Night of the Living dead is the first in a trilogy which also includes Dawn of the Dead and Day of the Dead.  Dawn of the Dead was also recently remade.  Radiation from a crashed satellite has caused the dead to walk.  The movie never really focuses on the cause of the epidemic only because nobody really knows.  The focus on the movie is a group of survivors and their ordeal of trying to cope with the events that have taken place and trying their best survive against the zombies and each other.

For a 1968 flick this has its fair share of gore.  The focus of the movie ultimately though is the character interaction and the clashing of personalities.  Every character handles the situation in their own way and the movie is an interesting look into what extremely stressful situations can do to people.  Compared to modern day filming standards this movie probably would never have even been a blip on the radar.  The acting is fair, the dialogue is good, the special effects are well 60s, the plot is decent, but this movie was the pioneer into this style of horror and thus every zombie flick to follow uses elements of the same formula that the original championed in the first place.  My favorite parts of this movie and arguably the ones with the most tension aren't the scenes which have the characters trying to fight off the zombies, no instead it is as our group survivors sit around with each other talking and trying to learn and understand the true horror of what is transpiring in there turned upside world.  Most of their very little information is gleaned via their radio.  The radio broadcasts are great and are the true catalyst for setting the doomsday setting.  Considering the budget Romero had and the very simple special effects that were available to him at the time, I think that he has done a fantastic job of telling a convincing and truly terrifying apocalypse tale.