Some aspects of this Trek film are exceptional!

The beginning with Kirk, Scotty and Checkov is very well done. The humor is great, and the "retirement blues" that Kirk is feeling is depicted very well.

The special effects are INCREDIBLE! The Enterprise B's run in with the beautifully animated "Nexus ribbon" is breathtaking. The crash of the Enterprise D's saucer section is the best effect sequence ever done in a Trek film.

Again, the Next Generation humor is great, although Data does get silly as a "symptom" of losing control of his emotion chip. But who can keep a straight face at Data gagging on a foul tasting drink, then agreeing to have "more?"

Or the hideous klingon faces of Ursa and B'tor as they look through Geordie's visor, and while looking at the stunning Dr. Crusher, they say....

"Earth women are so REPULSIVE!"

The emotions of this film run deep. Captain Picard loses his brother and nephew, and regrets not having children.  Captain Kirk regrets not having a normal life as well, as he sets up a "romance" that went unfulfilled in the Nexus realm.

Soran is a convincing villian, driven by his loss of his family.

Kirk's death is both touching and reverent.

The theme of MORTALITY and REGRET in this film is very well received.

Now come the film's weaknesses...

The plot holes regarding "The Nexus." It's never explained well how Guinan could be both on the Enterprise and in the Nexus. It's never explained well how Picard and Kirk could LEAVE the Nexus through an act of will.

And MOST illogically, why would Picard choose to go back to the planet, right before Soran launches his missile? IF Picard could return to "ANY PLACE, ANY TIME," as Guinan said, then why not go back to when Soran was a guest on his ship... before he escaped to the Klingon Bird of Prey? All he would need to do then is take Soran into custody... without some battle on rocky cliffs!

Obviously, that would make a boring conclusion to leaving the Nexus... and to the story. But it's a TERRIBLE plot hole!

If the writers could had tied up these loose ends, I would had given this film 5 stars.

It's as if they "bit off more than they could chew."

Jeff Messenger, author of the novel "The Shroud of Torrington."