I am amazed at the venomous tone of some negative reviews posted for this film.  As I read them through, I am struck by the language used -- the writers "don't think" this is what really happened, or say "this isn't how the real President Bush really is."  They say the president "hid in a secret bunker until it was all clear."  They say with stunning certainty that it's a "crock" that the president reads his Bible before going to bed.  They brand the film "pure propaganda."  They use juvenile terms and childish names in attacking this president.

One easily can see the mindset behind such absurdities.  The Michael Moore-minded, who hated this president from the moment he took office, will always create reasons to continue to hate him.  And in their closed minds, anything showing him in a good light cannot possibly be true.

The negative reviews on this Amazon page originate not in any inherent flaws in this film, but in the fires ignited and fanned by the Left these last five years, flames of irrational hatred for this president that have labeled him -- as the Leftist fashion of the moment has dictated -- as stupid, or incompetent, or a brilliant warmonger who deceived all of Congress, or a brainless puppet in Cheney's hands, or a liar, or a criminal, or a fiend who actually took part in the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.  Such vitriolic, contradictory absurdities as THESE are the lies, and the hindsight of history will prove as much.

This may, in fact, be one of the most accurate television docudramas ever made.  Its screenwriter interviewed dozens of persons inside and outside the White House and found each personal account corroborating the next.  And throughout the story, in many places and wherever possible, verbatim dialogue was used.

The Bush you see in this movie IS the Bush currently sitting in the White House -- a man of faith, a man of morals, a Christian man of honest intent driven by personal conviction, not opinion polls.

This movie, within the framework of television drama, does a very good job of conveying the actual events of those traumatic days in 2001.  It is superbly written, well directed and edited, and brilliantly acted.  While the docudrama format demands some liberties be taken, this film never strays far from reality.

If you're interested in truth, buy this DVD and watch it every September 11th -- and remember.