Clint Eastwood has long been known as a star of Western film-it would not be inaccurate to say that no one else since John Wayne has anywhere near the claim he has on being the definitive Western star of the twentieth century.  Writer Garth Ennis (The  Preacher) has remarked that "there are two kinds of people in the world: people who like Clint Eastwood movies, and dweebs."  Ennis is mainly referring to Eastwood's Westerns, and rightly so.  Classics like Sergio Leone's "Man with No Name" trilogy (A Fistful of Dollars, For a Few Dollars More, and The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly) and Eastwood's own Unforgiven bookend an incredible career in Westerns that astonishingly numbers only eleven films over thirty or so years (in addition to the films named above, Eastwood starred in Hang `Em High, Paint Your Wagon, Two Mules for Sister Sara, Joe Kidd, High Plains Drifter, The Outlaw Josey Wales, and Pale Rider), not counting contemporary films in which he plays Western-esque characters.
The Outlaw Josey Wales (1976) is a personal favorite of mine from childhood, and was the second Western Eastwood directed himself; the first was 1972's High Plains Drifter.  It features a compelling story, beautiful cinematography, and a fully realized protagonist.  The latter is a welcome change of pace from the characters in the Leone films and High Plains Drifter, who were loners with no name and no past.
Wales is a dirt farmer in Missouri shortly after the Civil War whose wife and young son are murdered by a renegade Union cavalry unit called the Red Legs, under the command of the evil Captain Terrill.  Wales falls in with the Missouri Bushwhackers, a group of similar men who ride the Ozarks fighting a guerilla war against the Union even after the War has ended.  They are under the command of Fletcher, who persuades them to turn in their guns and surrender to the Union.  Only Wales refuses, and only Wales and Fletcher survive-Wales because he flees, Fletcher because he reluctantly betrays his men, who fall before a Gatling gun as they take an oath of allegiance to the Union.  When it becomes known that Wales is the lone survivor, a price is put on his head and Terrill and Fletcher set out after him.  Wales embarks on a journey that will take him to Texas en route to Mexico, and ultimately to bloody revenge.
Along the way he picks up a few friends: an elderly Cherokee man, a young Apache woman, and a family of Kansas Jayhawkers, including a troubled young woman played by Sondra Locke, Eastwood's longtime live-in companion (this is quite possibly the only role in which I find her even remotely appealing).  Eastwood has memorable lines galore and seems to walk around in a perpetual cloud of cordite, spitting tobacco juice on the face of anything and everything around him; in other words, this is a classic.
All in all, this is probably my favorite Clint Eastwood Western, but there is one troubling aspect to the film.  The degree to which it acts as an apologist text for the Confederacy can sometimes be a bit much.  Anyone from North of the Mason-Dixon line who wants to know how English audiences felt about The Patriot is urged to screen this film-its bias is naked. The Union Army is portrayed as an honorless bunch of ruffians and murderers; the only mention made of slavery is a scene in which the young Native American woman Wales rescues remarks that his actions mean that he now owns her.  Wales replies simply that he "doesn't want to own anyone," and the matter is never mentioned again.  Considering the source, I suppose this is to be expected.  TOJW is based on an at the time unpublished novel entitled Gone to Texas, by Forrest Carter.  Carter is better known for his controversial fictitious autobiography The Education of Little Tree (about his imaginary childhood as a Native American boy - guess he forgot he's always been just a hateful Cracker), but his best-known work is probably the speech he wrote for Alabama Governor George Wallace's inauguration, the highlight of which was "segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever!"  He also headed a chapter of the Ku Klux Klan at one time.  It explains a lot.  If you can simply accept the film on its own terms, it certainly will not detract from your enjoyment (at least two of my ancestors fought for the Union, one in a fairly high-ranking position, and it's still a sentimental favorite), but you have been warned.  
On the positive side, Warner Home Video's DVD presentation is flawless-the print used was obviously the absolute best that could be found, with excellent sound and color as crisp as the day it premiered.  There's nothing much in the way of extras except for a large collection of trailers for other Westerns, but the film itself is gloriously presented in its original aspect ratio and will only set you back about fifteen bucks.  There is absolutely no excuse for anyone who collects Western film not to own this film.