AMG fans! There is a good news.

Ah My Goddess Season 2 just has started this April in Japan. So far, about 15 episodes were aired (an episode per week). Those new episodes were only broadcasted, but not put into DVD yet (07/2006). We all hope we can watch the new season of Goddess series soon in the U.S.  By the way the U.S. version of AMG season 1 ends at volume 6 with 26 episodes.

This volume 4 of AMG season 1 contains four episodes. The first episode introduces an important sidekick of the series, Banpei the robot. The second and third episodes are more interesting, because Belldandy shows her somewhat scary side of personality. The last episode is the big shot of this volume, Belldandy in bathing suit.

The first episode is about Banpei. He is made for protecting Belldandy. From what? And, by whom? The second question is easy to answer. Skuld, who else? But, the answer for the first question is a bit complicated. Skuld intended Banpei to help and protect Belldandy, but for some reason the robot himself changed his own program coding, so that he now protects Belldandy from everybody who approaches to her including keiichi, urd, and even his creator Skuld. Although Skuld did not install any emotional function on the robot, urd concluded that Banpei is in love with Belldandy.

The second episode is funny. After Banpei is guarding and patrolling the temple 24-7, Mara, the demon, has hard time to attack Keiichi and Belldandy. Because Banpei is equipped with anti air-strike missiles, wide range demon detector, and rock music broadcasting function that can make Mara down tens of times a day, she has no chance to even get near to their house. So, Mara changes her target and employs dirtier tactics. She finds megumi, keiichi's sister, and possesses her body to hide from Belldandy's detection. Behind Megumi's body Mara succeeded in approaching to the couple and casts a strong spell to keiichi. The result is that keiichi does some misdeeds to other girls that can potentially disappoint Belldandy. First he jumps to Sayoko on her body, next he grasps Megumi's breast, and finally plunges into lady's dress room where Hasegawa is changing her clothes. The scary but interesting part is the super natural repercussion caused by Belldandy. Each time when she saw the ugly scenes, there are sudden chains of thunders in clear blue sky, pouring rain at a blink, and peaking of gravitation that squashes everything near by. I think, in this manner, keiichi has no chance to even think of cheating Belldandy without considering death.

In third episode, Belldandy is scary in another way. Do you know hasegawa Sora? She is the only female member of the auto club who is always shy and blushing to a plain joke. Although she is a member of auto club, she is a speed-phobic. And, the problem is auto club seniors made entry to a car race by her name without her knowing it. Surely, hasegawa claims tens of times that she just can never do it. So, what can be possible, if the driver simply doesn't want to drive? Here the dreadful characteristic of Belldandy comes to play. I mean positively. Belldandy with smile suggests that she and hasegawa may have a training together at the temple to overcome the speed-phobic. In spite of almost hysteric support of both urd and Skuld, Hasegawa still cannot overcome her fear. People are kind of gave up, except Belldandy. Belldandy again with smile suggested to do it once more. Finally, when the racing day comes, and Hasegawa is so anxious about the race that she pretends to be sick. She cries and almost collapses, but again smiling Belldandy does not give up. The scary part is the way that Belldandy treats people with true and endless goodwill. Whatever it takes, she simply does not stop to see the positive side of things. Isn't it scary that somebody always believes you with full heart without any doubt or tiring?

The last episode, the sweattreat of the volume, is situated in a beach. For gutless keiichi, Megumi prescribed a fail-proof operation that guarantees the advance of Belldandy and keiichi's relationship. Alone together at the beach. Ok, that was the original plan. The problem is, you know, it is impossible to split three goddess musketeers. So, four of them, Keiichi, Belldandy, urd, and Skuld went to the beach. Mood is all set and indeed it's very good though. Belldandy in swimsuit, they are in the same room, and she even ask him to join her in outside bath, which is embarrassingly enough, coed. Plus, according to Urd and her explanation of astronology and horoscope, if he confesses his love tonight at a certain place, those two are bound together forever. I hope that you can remember the episode 2 of volume 1 where Belldandy actually explained certain kinds of things like destiny and heavenly forces that brought her to Keiichi. Anyway, he believes it, and brings Belldandy to that specific place. Of course, Skuld never let Keiichi advance with Belldandy. So, she literally emerges like a rocket canister from the water between Belldandy and Keiichi who is about to confess. The result is, Keiichi accidentally confesses to Skuld, not Belldandy. And, this puts both keiichi and Skuld in panic who believe in Urd's telling of destiny.

I think that this volume enriches and deepens personality of Belldandy very much. During the past episodes, she was naive and innocent but it was not this obvious that she has such a strong gut in some ways. This makes her character to be very unique. It is easy to create a character that is simply naïve, innocent, and kind. But, it is really a something to create a character who are still innocent butt simultaneously insisting and smartly funny.