I purchased of all these on VHS years ago and was pleasantly surprised when they came out on DVD so I could get rid of the VHS tapes. This set has my 3 favorite Deanna Durbin films: Three Smart Girls, Something in the Wind, and It Started With Eve. Unfortunately it has one of my least favorite as well: Can't Help Singing.
1st the Good.
Three Smart Girls is an excellent example of Deanna's talent in singing at such a young age. She plays a girl who's father is about to remarry. Her and her 2 sisters decide to go and visit him to stop this wedding which sets off a series of amusing events.
Something in the Wind is about a radio host who, in a case of mistaken identity, is kidnapped by a rich and powerful family.  The lead male's grandfather just passed away and left in his will an order to continue payments to a woman with the same name as the radio host. The family wants to buy her off before she creates a scandal and potentially ruins the grandson's upcoming nuptials.  The grandson's distant cousin, played by Donald O'Connor, is in love with his cousin's fiancee and wants Deanna to play along and demand outrageous things for her staying silent.
It Started With Eve is my favorite Deanna film. A rich man is dying, his son returns from Mexico with his fiancee to see him before he dies. The father wants to meet the fiancee but the son dropped her and her mother off at a hotel before visiting his father. When he returns to the hotel he can't find his fiancee and decides he doesn't have much time so he pays a coat check girl, Deanna, to pretend to be his fiancee to make his father happy. His father likes her then he gets over his illness the next day. That's when the fun begins.
Can't Help Singing is one of the worst Deanna movie. She is the daughter of a US Senator in the old West who tries to follow her beau across the country to California.
Lady on a Train is somewhat of a parody of film noir. Deanna witnesses a murder while passing some windows on a train. She calls the cops but they think she has an overactive imagination because they see her reading a murder/mystery novel.  She realizes who the victim is by seeing his face somewhere. Visits the reading of his will and mistaken as his nightclub singing mistress, who inherits everything. Its pretty good for not being her typical upbeat goofy comedy.
First Love is a Cinderella type story. Deanna plays a girl who moves in with her rich cousins. Her female cousin is very snobby and doesn't want her around. Deanna meets a rich boy, played by Robert Stack (Unsolved Mysteries), and falls for him but her cousin keeps trying to get in her way. She escapes, goes to a ball, sings, gets caught and you can probably guess what happens next.