Edward Scissorhands is the archetypical tale of transformation, and of the transforming power of love. A "mechanized" young man has scissors for hands because his inventor (played by the late Vincent Price) dies before he is able to complete his work.  Subsequently he lives over an extended period of time in the darkness and isolation of the castle in which he was created, until one day a kind woman from the suburban community below visits in the hope of finding new clients for her Avon business. Struck by his isolation and unkempt appearance, she takes him  home to her family in an effort to care for him. The adventure begins. The young man discovers he has the capacity for love as well as the hate love can generate. His love for the woman's beautiful teen daughter, Kim, flowers. As their love painfully progresses, they mature, she from a somewhat self-centered girl into a caring young adult, and he from an underdeveloped  inexperienced humanoid into a more mature, caring creature. The viewers discover that his incompleteness resides not in his hands but in his heart. This, however, is remedied through Kim. The transforming power of the love he has for Kim manifests itself in his art, in the explosive beauty of his ice sculptures, and the attending snow flakes he produces as he carves the forms he cares for. Kim, for her part, is transformed into an elegant ballerina as she dances thru the falling snow. In the end, the suburban community rejects his presence, primarily because he cannot be formed into its image. He flees back to the castle where he is destined to remain from then on. His return to the castle can be seen as less of a retreat than as an acceptance of his place in the scheme of things, evidence of his transformation. The castle then becomes a place not of isolation, but a place where his physical limitations are transformed into gifts, where he continues generating his sculptures while showering the community below with snow.  The love between Kim and him is sustained in a timeless manner as is revealed at the beginning and end of the tale. In the final analysis, Edward becomes more human than many of his human counterparts in the community . If anything is incomplete, it is this: this wonderful tale demands a sequel where Kim's granddaughter, introduced at the beginning of the film, matures into her 30s and becomes a New York CEO. Her rising career is suddenly  interrupted one day after glimpsing a small newspaper clip on the back page of the local paper reporting that  snows have stopped falling in her hometown. In defiance of her scepticism and disillusionment over her hometown's narrowmindedness and gossipy proclivities,  one of the reasons for her departure to New York, she returns to seek Edward in the castle, seeking the truth of his existence and should he exist, to help him if she can. She fears that if he does exist, he might be breaking down. She wishes to confirm to him her deceased grandmother's love for him, as revealed in a secret diary.  She finds him somewhat rusted and immobile, in a dark corner. They become friends. He questions her about death, and whether or not he has a soul. She replies that she doesn't know, but that if he does, she is sure he will see Kim again.  The granddaughter attempts to save him from breakdown by secretly calling in a robotics expert. Unfortunately, he cannot help because Edward's inventor left incomplete records of his work. In the end, Edward asks for one thing, to be given hands. The expert in an attempt to be of some help succeeds in this endeavor. Edward soon thereafter stops functioning. They place him in a box which they bury in  the garden grounds. Some days later, on Christmas day, the granddaughter decides to return to her busy corporate life in New York, but as she departs her parent's home to catch the taxi for the evening flight , it begins to snow. Moved to tears, she begins to dance as her grandmother once did. She immediately decides to quite her job, to remain and convert the castle overlooking the community into an art museum in memory of her Grandmother and Edward. Story ends. P.S.  Johnny Depp must return to play this last role.