At first,I didn't have high expectations going in (Tim Story is known for comedies like the amusing Barbershop and the god awful Taxi Movies)But as one who was raised on Marvel comics and more importantly a huge admirer of Jack "King" Kirby's incredible artwork and designs, i just had to see this latest incarnation of Marvel's very first comic.

First off,I loathed the 1994 Roger Corman adaptation which was so bad that it never even made it straight to video. (But the Punisher and Captain  America did?!?) This recent take on the Ff was much better with four completley different personas and dilemnas,most notably the tragic Ben Grimm portrayed by Shiled's Micheal Chicklis who struggles to adapt to his life post transformation,while hoping for a cure.
On the other hand, Chris Evans was on point as the Cocky hot headed Johnny Storm who more than accepts his abilities and superpowers while trying to achieve instant stardom.
I didn't particularly care for Ian Grofford's Reed Richards, in the comics Reed was a little more stoic while still retaining that super intellect. Instead we have an insecure egghead who relied on Victor Von Doom's financing for this cosmic exploration project.

Jessica Alba wasn't as bad as many have seem to think, her performance was OK, nothing more. Now this new Dr. Doom comes off a bit like some arrogant enterpenuer like Donald Trump, hence the cheesy line; :Sue, your'e fired"! It's a good flick which couldv'e been a lil' better.to compare it to other comic flicks like X2 or Spiderman 2 would be very unfair. the FF stood on it's own merit and the comedy relief worked well for what it was.

Pros:
"Convincing" movie counterparts accompanied by fun performances courtesy of Chiklis and Evans,who IMO carried the movie.
Decent FX especially the Human Torch that pays homage to Kirby's comic counterpart.The Thing makeup wasn't as bad as i thought either there was no need for CGI copouts as Chiklis mananged to portray Ben Grimm pefectly.
The posthumous Jack Kirby finally gets acknowledged!!(see the Movie's ending credits)
Funny dialogue(When asked if Mr. Fantrastic can stretch any part of his anatomy,Johnny replies; "i wouldn't know, but i think he may be limp") and good direction.well Timmy, you didn't really let me down as i have thought.

Cons: Dr. Doom's powers and looks..Is he  Electro or even the silver surfer's distant cousin?!?
Not enough battle scenes during the movie, where's Doom's security force or even his robots?
predictible ending..does this mean an upcoming sequel?
Maybe so, because as of this writting, The Fantastic Four has helped to recover the Box Office slump with a $53 Million take. Note to Hollywood: stop the chessy remakes like bewitched and the
silly  Dukes of Hazzard.instead Make yours Marvel!

Marvel has saved hollywood's @$$ more than once and it all started with the first Blade movie, the first Marvel movie that has achieved success. ergo inspired Marvel/Arad to greenlight the Xmen Movie and afterwards Spiderman and so forth. And thus it begins.