Well I'm definitely "not" here to make apologies for either the David Lynch original nor the Alan Smithee after-thought.
However I "am" here to state that with all of this "extra" footage , why oh why couldn't the publishers of this DVD just  include the extra footage sans that gawd-awful failed attempt at an Orson Wellsian narration. This is because one of the key features that is so very striking about this production is its "Look".
 What separates out truly classic science fiction cinema is its ability to transport you into another world and Lynch's "Dune" has "always" succeeded on that front. That is why it would've been a classier choice to include the extra scene footage as just that and be done with it. All of the cut scenes are still more moments to be suspended in this world.
 The "Look" and most of the performances really do help make up for one of its weakest links being the "uneven" quality of that script which "is" David Lynch's doing.
 My God I see the great British actor's performances in this and yearned for what this film could've been had it been treated with BBC /Masrepiece Theatre-style writing (.
BTW:  The classic Brit masterpiece mini-series "I,Claudius" comes immediately to mind in which Patrick Stewart plays a fascinating supporting role and in which Reverend Mother actress Sian  Phillips played the fascinating &amp; powerful lead role of  Empress Livia .
 Add in Freddie Jones' Mentat and Francesca Annis' Lady Jesisica along with the solid performances of  German actor Jurgen Pruchow , of "Das Boot"  fame , and  always masterful Max Von Sydow  ( "Minority Report" of late )and you really do have enough quality talent on screen to make the sometimes amatuerish script work its way through.
( I'd often fantasized Baron Harkonnen played by classic Brit-film actor Sidney Greenstreet_ You know ," The Fat gent" in "Casablanca"_ however  I'm as convinced that Rod Stieger would've created a far more powerful and chilling performance as the Baron. I know , dream on )
 Now add the masterful costumes ,"especially" the most crucial design of the stillsuits , the Jules Verne look of the technology of an empire , and the masterful craftsmanship of the worms by one Carlo Rimbaldi who made H.R.Giger's "Alien" head work and come to life and you really do have enough of the ingredients of what makes a classic work of SciFi worth owning.
 The soundtrack is appropriately engaging enough , but if only Toto could've resisted that one temptation to include those oh so cheezy  lead guitar licks during Paul's first ride of the great worm. Cheapens the whole effect Lynch was trying for.
 Well there's plenty of Lynch's infamous "quirky" touches in this to be amusing for its own sake , but the "original" is still
the best. Again ,too bad "all" of the original footage is not included on this DVD ,but there's enough there to make the point.