LXG is of a genre known as "steam punk". It's also part of the literary legacy of authors like the great Philip Jose Farmer. Farmer gave us a world where various literary characters and phenomena coexist. To appreciate LXG you first have to accept the film on it's own terms. LXG is a fun steam punk story that carries on the tradition of Farmer in which various literary characters unite to battle the super scientific Fantom. Fun indeed!
Unfortunately, critics often attack this movie for lacking imagination while demonstrating their lack of imagination by being incapable, or unwilling, to grasp the premise and ideas of LXG. They like to point out that in our real historic world there were no vampires, no invisible men, no machine gun rifles, no immortals, no monsters, no modern cars, no Nautilus type submarines, etcetera. I agree with them that these things didn't exist in our real historic world, but this is a work of fiction. It's true that vampires did not exist in our real historic world, but that didn't stop Bram Stoker. Invisible men did not exist in our real historic world, but that didn't stop Wells. Nautilus style submarines didn't exist in our real historic world, but that didn't stop Verne. There was no Fantom with soldiers with machine guns, but once again this is fiction. Many critics just can't muster enough imagination to accept these things in a movie and then they claim that the film lacks imagination. It's the lack of imagination on the part of some critics that is obvious to me.
I have more than enough imagination to accept these characters all existing in one adventure (I thought of this often while reading about these characters when I was a girl) and I can accept the Fantom and his modern tech too (it's steam punk and modern tech is supposed to exist in the past in steam punk). LXG is a continuation of the ideas put forth by Philip Jose Farmer decades ago and literary characters are supposed to coexist in that scenario so I have no problem with these things. I also have no problem with characters not being completely shocked by the guns used by the Fantom's cronies when they live in a world of monsters,invisble men and magical immortals. I don't think it would have been a good idea for Dorian Gray to say something like "I'm immortal thanks to supernatural magical powers, but I just can't believe rapid firing guns!" or for Mina to say "I'm an undead immortal who can turn into bats and who associates with an invisble man, but the concept of an impressive automobile blows my mind!". I think the characters were fine just the way they were portrayed in the film. I do, however, have a tough time with criticisms of Nemo being a "Raja" or Mina going out into sunlight. These types of things just show that those who are so quick to judge this film never paid attenton to Verne or Stoker.
There are some campy/comic book/B-movie bits in LXG and the inclusion of Tom Sawyer was an unusual move(he wasn't in the graphic novel), but those are my only "complaints". The relationship between Quatermain (who lost his son) and Sawyer was done very well and I'm glad Tom came along for the adventure. LXG isn't perfect, but its far from the film that many negative critics try to paint it as. It asks you to accept the idea that the worlds created by various great authors are one and the same. Do you want to see an adventure that unites the worlds and characters of Haggard, Doyle, Wilde, Verne, Stoker, Twain, Stevenson, and Wells? Check out LXG and bring your imagination along for the ride. I grew up on all these works and characters and found this movie to be highly entertaining.