Well, The Facebook has spoken and apparently it's mating season--your local postalwomen busy heaving wedding invitations by the crateload, priests perched twiddling thumbs while brides cram hundred dollar bills under their doors. If you're married, undivorced, and out to celebrate your semicentenial, you're more or less `alternative' these days. Still, curb your cynicism, please. Is it so reckless and absurd to celebrate the impression of love-everlasting in lieu of the real thing?...and by real thing of course I mean, like, Princess Bride-type love...the stuff that comes pre-certified and guaranteed beyond the breadth of doubt.

No don't worry though, this movie's not a chick flick and that anorexic girl from The Notebook (2004) is nowhere to be seen. James, coy Englishman, is back in Tuscany promoting the new book he's written on aesthetics: Certified Copy--Forget the original... (I'm assuming that the book's subtitle refers to Radiohead's creepy new album cover art) ...and find yourself a good copy. (Yeah don't worry James, I swiped mine on BitTorrent, too) It's here he meets up with the staggeringly attractive Juliette Binoche (Elle, French ex-pat) who conveys him over a Cyprus-studded countryside toward the village of Lucignano where herds of young betrothed are squinting for their formal photos. When a barista with no ear for American, err... English mistakes their erudite flirtation for the nostalgic dialogue of a married couple retracing their young love, Elle gets James to play along. The façade continues and soon it isn't clear: is Elle's exuberance limited to that of a star-struck art history nerd or are we bearing darker witness to the couple's slow identification with some long repressed and bygone love affair?

Sound dull? It's not. I asked the woman hustling popcorn if she had seen it yet. She looked distraught, told me no, and took a little extra time with her non-trans polyunsaturated organic red palm oil-extract butter substitute popcorn condiment as if probing the air for something positive to say. "The manager said it's not really a film, but like a dialogue?" Uh-oh, I thought, yet the drama here is twofold. The lovers' ambiguity aside, Elle constructs their fantasy to prove a point: can the experience of celebrating love--well aged and worn--be meaningful to the same degree if re-created to a high enough degree of verisimilitude? Does art only have value in terms of our experience with art--a work's status as authentic or `fake' notwithstanding?

I must have sobered up about the time I realized the dialogue had switched to French, Italian, and back to normal-speak again. Regardless of your state of consciousness, Certified Copy delivers a high sensory-entertainment payoff upon your monetary and/or two-hour investment. Drawing on his background as a poet and portrait photographer, Iranian director Abbas Kiarostami frames lush environments in terms of his subjects--not the other way around: A room to frame the face, an alleyway askew to blend pedestrians with football dribbling kids. Kiarostami's engrossing cinematography coupled with his commitment to realism does away with the standard need for Apache helicopters and oodles of illicit sex. This makes the many trivialities of our own public lives seem much more exciting; encountering a minor traffic impediment in a well maintained yet not particularly expensive automobile, watching a woman apply a brighter shade of lipstick and slightly gaudy clip-on costume earrings, or maybe just imagining a boy and girl in love. It's not like he's the only one doing it--contemporary realism's been catching on with films like David Fincher's The Social Network (2010) and even with the more explicit Swedish filmed Millennium Trilogy: The Tatoo'd Girl Who Kicked the Flaming Hornet's Nest (2009).

So cynical or not--maybe you're feverishly scanning through your second-cousin's Target registry before the deco-inlay floral design save-the-date card even finds your mailbox? Maybe you're losing count of vodka-tonics while your freshman roommate slaps on the old gold and signs away a lifetime of endearment? Either way, whether you pay your way at the box office or stream a bootlegged screen-rip hosted from a noodle vender's hard drive in Hong Kong, this is a film which challenges itself and cannot be reduced to the sum of its vistas, tacit storyline, and obvious good-looks. It's an easy dose to bend our plastic-cast and franchised notions of originality and weighs in for a hearty night of entertainment.