i must admit that i have been a joan rivers fan from before i was in the womb. my favorite role that joan rivers ever played was a short appearance in the movie "muppets take manhattan" where she powdered and puffed herself and Kermit the Frog's love interest, Miss Piggy, behind a cosmetics counter (although neither one of them needed it). i was approximately six years old and smitten for life. considering that i am about her daughter's age, i felt like i was seeing my mom, or at least my super-star aunt, on the big screen. it was on that day that joan rivers clearly made an indelible memory in my mind. a memory that has surely lasted, and will continue to last, for a lifetime. i have closely followed her career ever since. who hasn't? aside from her past acting roles, i also admire her other current television endeavours such as "Joan Knows Best" (the second season will be on channel WE beginning January 24, 2012) or "Fashion Police" (channel E!). but, if i were to pick a favorite joan project, i have to say that i especially love to catch her jovial and recklessly funny self when she is on qvc selling her very high-quality fashion jewelry, apparel and accessories line. everything joan makes is a labour of love and work of art, and her products are of no exception. i urge you to, if nothing else, at least browse her qvc merchandise and watch her theatrical antics while she delivers what those in the business may refer to as sale "pitches," but her regular qvc viewers see them as sincere and honest feedback on what is of the moment and current in retail. when joan speaks, on any topic, she speaks from the heart and the qvc viewers, including myself, know this. it is as though joan is talking directly to you and guiding you in a lesson of appropriate etiquette and class. what is amazing is that Joan Rivers does her qvc show appearances herself. if you are too poor to afford to see her live, or if you are a devotee of everything joan, i suggest viewing her qvc shows as they offer you a front-row seat into the mind of a self-made woman who also happens to be a world and well-bred socialite. i think that people tend to forget her upper-crust associations and classic taste because she is always doing "something for a laugh." That is where this documentary, "Joan Rivers- A Piece of Work," separates itself from anything else that Joan Rivers has done in her career. as a die-hard Joan fan, i must admit that the perspective this film takes was initially slightly upsetting. i do not like to see a good-hearted, diligent, innovative, smart and applauded cultural icon suffering or being portrayed as living a hard, sometimes callous life. the film shares all of the hard-work, setbacks and disappoints that come with a challenging life in show business and beyond. i understand why the filmmakers did this and why Joan approved because once again Joan and her "no-holds-barred" attitude are always teaching. Joan teaches people how to laugh even at situations that would make the majority of people crumble. once again, it was painful to watch a beloved one facing life obstacles, but to talk about the pain and share it with others, especially someone like Joan who is at such a high level of fame and legendary notoriety, was difficult but in a way necessary. it is precisely Joan's candid openness and her humane desire to teach people and instruct them on how to laugh at both the good and the bad that life has to offer that makes her intriguing. Joan's desire to connect with people from all strata of life is a hard invitation to turn down. it is no accident that Joan is considered "queen of the people." and, it is obvious from her success that her audience would not have it any other way. from her legendary roast, where she was the one roasted (definitely not an easy role to assume), to her overly-generous philanthropic work, joan knows how to "take it" and how to "give it back"- and to "give it back" the right way that satisfies everyone's funny bone in an acceptable way. nobody could have ever asked for such a wonderful, talented and popular queen. joan rivers absolutely leads by example. and, if we know what is good for us, we should all follow in her great footsteps. as those who watch joan's qvc shows know, it is tradition that an avant-garde joan robustly chants "who brought this to you first?" and all sing back a prideful cheer, "you did joan!!!" that is joan rivers- a pioneer, a survivor and most of all, a revered, beloved leader. joan rivers is a "piece of work" and no one would disagree, especially after watching this film.  go out and buy this dvd, it will be an investment that you'll never regret. go joan and never stop! we appreciate your continuing loyalty and faithfulness. the people love you dearly.