This movie fails on almost all levels.  I'm not usually critical of bad acting, but some of the acting in this film is so wooden it pulls you out of the movie.  Really awful.  Then there's the lame story-line, which is told in flashback.  If you've ever seen the pilot for the original Star Trek you've got the idea--except the story isn't nearly as interesting.  A panel is listening to a woman discuss the reason she was found handcuffed to a bunk on a train with nobody else aboard.  Now, there's been an atomic explosion at a power plant on Mars, so you'd think these officials would be a teensy-weensy bit concerned about the boom-boom stuff and all the dead people in the affected city, but not these morons.  Nope.  They want to get to the bottom of that empty train, and they don't even mention the blast or seem aware that there was one.  The bad guys are right out of Twin Peaks, ghosts that go from one "host" to another and turn them into evil killers.  In this case, though, the ghosts are Martians who have been lying in wait for extraterrestrial prey and are now bent on killing all invaders--despite the fact that they need those invaders to serve as their hosts.  These ghosts have ostensibly taken over a lot of miners only days before, but none of them look or dress like miners anymore.  Almost all of them have long black hair and are dressed up in some sort of Ashanti warrior gear.  They carry evil-looking swords, too.  I would have expected them to still look like and be dressed like human miners and carry home-made weapons and maybe some pistols here and there, but obviously the powers-that-be wanted them to look "cool", logic be damned.  They also didn't want them to have guns so our "heroes" could knock them off by the thousands.  All-in-all, the storyline seems like nothing more than a clumsy set-up so that some bad-ass good guys can go on a slaughter, which they do.  Not that you'll care very much.  You only get to know a few characters, and they're not very likeable.  You've got a bossy, drugged-up female representing law and order and a killer thug as her unwilling sidekick.  The women are in charge, and the men are either sleezy creeps, outright thugs, or chum for the evil guys.  If all movies were this bad I'd swear off watching them.  Not interesting, not even in a B movie sort of way.