Political themes can be addressed from the view point of a worldly intellect, or a layman with little experience. Sometimes, the layman can learn about said political themes not from historical text, but from dramatic incarnation where every detail need not be described, but the emotion and drama of the participants reveals the truth. Case in point was the dissension in China about 15 years ago. We observed the defiance of the young dissidents against the old ruling government of china. We saw one young man stand before the tanks; one person speaking not to the machine, but to his brothers in the machines. We did not fully understand what was in his mind, but we could see from his behavior approximately what he was feeling, and the importance of his feelings.
Such is the case in Sand Pebbles; An American Gun boat patrolling China, maintaining an american presence, and acting as a liaison between missionaries and the rest of the world. We see and learn how they live, how they entertain themselves, and how they use the local population to carry out most of their responsibilities. We see how open prostitution is, and how military personnel fall prey to it. This is all demonstrated through a sailor who is transferred to the San Pablo, and begins new relationships with his new sea mates ( where, in the past, he has probably had problems before ). It is bad enough that his mates have little tolerance for his independence and preference to maintain focus on his responsibilities, but after you add on the pressure of a chinese revolution that none of them understand, their intolerance for him mushrooms into hatred and belittling disrespect. 
 The americans have lost control of the chinense on their ship, who are now themselves involved in political uprising and dissention against an imperialist american presence. We know little about what the chinese activists are upset about; we only see how they deal with the american gun boat, and their occupants. What we do see clearly is the emotional strain on the sea men, and the developing responsibility for them to secure the safety not only of themselves, but also the missionaries living in cities up and down the river.( whether the missionaries like it or not ).  The culmination of this helplessness is the unavoidable personal responsibility of the ships captain, who over time sees a weakening not only of his leadership, but of his respect from the chinese which threatens his national pride. The ship is realistically portrayed as a rusty old tub filmed from areas within the coastal area, billowing black smoke into a clear blue sky, portrayed in striking contrast to the non industrial communities around them.
This film is not characteristic of most films in the 60's. It is a timeless drama with no influence of current cultural styles or social perceptions. After watching this film for over 35 years, I still watch it whenever I can, for, as a good bottle of wine, you learn more about it each time you sample it.