History films and dramatic films come and go.  Rarely is a film good at both drama and historic fidelity.

Note that "Judgment at Nuremburg" is cited in one of the Nuremburg trials online websites.  Why?  The lightly fictionalized trial of the middle management judges (disguised, no doubt, to protect the guilty) portrays well the main point and historians have noticed!!!

Justice (and the judges) became whatever Hitler wanted them to be.  Then the Nazis lost and the Allies judged the leaders, including the "middle management" justices...persons who should have known better than to let Hitler seduce them into perpetrating injustice against other humans.

burt Lancaster (as the most famous judge on trial) has a fabulous speech about the Nazi Judges!

 And watch young Maximilian Schell portray the intelligent but essentially still morally warped defense counsel.  He deservedly got an Oscar (tm) because you feel sorry for him yet angry at him--at the same time.

The best casting is in two witnesses.  Montgomery Clift and Judy Garland---both who were not many years off from their life's end.  Their attractive yet somewhat ravaged faces and demeanor help them portray two other large (but mostly forgotten) victim groups...the disabled or maybe mentally slow (Clift) and those "aryans" (Garland) who just possibly had a romantic encounter with Jews.

No this film is not a super action movie.  But your teen should watch it with you...And Judgment resonates today as we receive much power to manipulate the genetics of the future generation.

Will we do what the Nazis (in their genetic courts) did and sterilize the "unfit" as was done to Clift's character in this movie?  This was the Nazi's first (and forgotten) holocaust...where they sharpened their mass murdering skills before they turned them fullforce on the Jews & other non0Aryans.

I watched this DVD again when the Terri Schiavo case was going on. If you research "Nazi Eugenics' online, be prepared for a shocker.  In some parts of the US and the world, we are starting up the same old bad eugenics stuff the Nazis used!!! Don't believe me.  Research for yourself!!!

*****

Again, good and great movies not only are good drama, but if they porport to be historical and actually stand up to years of scholarly scrutiny, then you are DOUBLE blessed when you buy their DVD!!!