THIS IS PROBALY THE GREATEST ROCK CONCERT PERFORMED WITH A METAL BAND AND A SYMPHONY. HERE'S MY OVERALL REVIEW:

1. The Ecstasy of Gold: The SFSO opened the concert by performing this Ennio Morricone piece, I think I like this verion more than the version on "The Good, The Bad And The Ugly" soundtrack. 5/5

2. The Call of Ktulu: This instrumental was rarely performed live, it sounds awesome, the SFSO makes it a little more dramatic whith the string section, especially with the violins. 5/5

3. Master of Puppets: A masterpiece, pumping energy, the symphony and metallica stay together at top notch. The crowd shouting "Come crawling faster, Obey your master" make you want to sing with everyone. 5/5

4. Of Wolf & Man: Hmm.. Not bad, could have been better, I liked the original version better. 3.5/5

5. The Thing That Should Not Be: It slows down in ccomparrison to the previous songs, I like it anyway. 4/5

6. Fuel: Awesome pumping energy, I like it that before the song began the guys made some cool guitar riffs that sounds exactly like a race car starting. It surpasses the pumping energy of the original studio version. 5/5

7. The Memory Remains: Sounds awesome especially when the crowd sings "la,la,la,la, la la la la". 4.5/5

8. No Leaf Clover: Pretty good, they made this one a single with a music video, it was pretty good. 4.5/5

9. Hero of the Day: James's voice sounds deep on this one, it stills bring me chills down my spine. 5/5

10. Devil's Dance: I never loved this song that much, but it sounds really good here and at a time it goes dramatic. 4.5/5

11. Bleeding Me: Sounds awesome, great closure for the first half of this memorable classic concert in rock history. 5/5

12. Nothing Else Matters: Awesome ballad, the SFSO adds more suspense and more chills down my spine on this song. James's voice sound very inspired on this one.  5/5

13.  Until It Sleeps: Sounds pretty good. I would have prefered someting like "Fade to Black" or "Welcome Home Sanitarium" But I ain't complaining. 4/5

14. For Whom the Bell Tolls: Sounds amazing and richer than ever. James's voice and playing sounds very inspired and at top notch. so is Lars's drumming, Kirk's guitarr shredding and Jason's Bass lines. The symphony adds suspense in the beggining before vocals start, listen closely to the percussion section of the SFSO, because you can hear the bells ringing. 5/5

15. -Human: The second new song performed at this concert, sounds pretty good. 4.5/5

16. Wherever I May Roam: Sounds decent, not one of the best songs but I still like it. 3.5/5

17. The Outlaw Torn: Good. 4/5

18. Sad But True: Really Good. 5/5

19. One: Amazing, their best song ever, period. I love the beggining with the special sound effects. The orchestra, especially the percussion section does an amazing job imitating the gunfire. Just perfect, no doubt about it. 5/5

20.  Enter Sandman: Another grat Metallica classic, sounds awesome. 5/5

21. Battery: Heavy,loud,great closure to an awesome concert, just the way I like it. 5/5

My overall rating: 4.6/5 stars

Awesome concert, a must have.