Given that the other glowing reviews exist, Im sure that my review will get flooded with negative votes.  Before the fans go insane and start blindly throwing negative votes around because this isnt a perfect review, give me the chance to explain why this only gets three stars.

Let me preface this review by saying that I love Psych.  Ever since the early previews back in the summer of 2006, Ive been a fan and have not missed a single episode.  Season 1 was nothing short of being fantastic and is still today one of the best things on TV that I have ever seen.  Unfortunately, thats where everything fell apart.  After Season 1 ended, the show was never the same.  The episodes were not up to par compared to eariler episodes.  Seasons 2 and 3 were OK whereas this season was easily the worst and biggest disappointment yet.  The same quality just isnt there, the characters dont act the same, and the cases and plotlines vary from being mediocre to laughable in the sense that they are no longer a mystery.

The cast is not the same as they were before.  Shawn is way too over the top now and in nearly episode I found myself wanting to smack him because of what he said or did.  Juliet is just whiney and violent towards everyone, especially Shawn because he has a girlfriend now.  Abigail is just a bad plot device that adds nothing.  She hardly shows up and the season finale makes her pointless ever since we first met her back in Season 3.  Lassiter cant make up his mind about how he feels about Shawn being around.  One minute he can think of Shawn as being a valuable asset to the team and the next he can think he is worthless and annoying.  He needs to make up his mind already.  Everyone else is still the same and likeable, but when the main central cast is off, then something needs to change fast.

The show is also no longer a murder mystery either.  It has now fallen into this rut of either showing us everything we need to know at the start and chasing the bad guy down, or taking the cliched cop-out route by having us learn the single peice of vital evidence at the last possible second that tells us who the murderer is.  Another problem it has is by making the murderer some guy that we either never see or someone that gets maybe two seconds of screen time at best, with the episode High-Noonish being the prime example of this problem.  It really detracts from trying to be invovled in the murder mystery when the investigation either never happens or is proved to be pointless by last second deus ex machina.  This show is no longer a charming and engaging murder mystery, its essentially a average thriller that fails at trying to be more edgey.  Psych needs to go back to its roots and stay there.

Now despite the negativities Ive listed, the show is still fairly entertaining and is better than half of the crap thats on TV.  But compared to previous episodes, it doesnt compare at all.  Even when Psych was at its worst in its early stages, the episodes were still far better than any episode presented in this season.  If your a fan of the show, Im sure youll love it, but if your new to the show, by all means do not start watching it here.  This really was the biggest disappoint for TV of the year and I cant help but wonder where the show will be going from here.  In conclusion, mediocre season to a great show.