What good are special effects and action movies if not for their escapist value?  But there is much more good to be learned from movies like Zhang Yi-mou's "Not One Less", for what we are watching may be part of everyday reality.  In a small school in a remote rural area of China, a thirteen year old girl substitutes for a teacher, who has to visit an ailing parent.  This is a job that not too many people want, so a girl not much older than the kids seems to be the only choice.  The girl is obviously not cut out to teach 28 kids, whose ages range from kindergarten level to fourth grade.  On her first day of teaching, she spends a good part of the day writing the lesson on the board, with the students clueless about what to do.  Yet the teacher seems more clueless in what to do next after she is done with her writing.  When a dispute breaks out in class, the young teacher has absolutely no idea what her responsibilities are.  Yet when events take an interesting turn, she keeps her hopes up and makes the situation into a teachable moment, to the surprise of the village mayor.  With steely stubbornness, she heads to the  big city to uphold her mission to lose not one less kid from her school not just because she needs the money but also because she has become attached to her students, especially this one.  And boy does she get more than she bargained for at the end!

There are some very touching moments in this movie, and their effectiveness lies in their sheer simplicity.  We get to know what one of the more responsible and sensitive girls in the class feels about the poverty of her school.  Her tears were from embarrassment, having revealed to the rest of the school, against her will, her personal feelings.  Perhaps she knew there were other possibilities in life, but she felt helpless to attain those possibilities.  Another unforgettable scene was the twenty or so kids sharing two cans of Coke, passing it around, with not one kid feeling entitled to more than a single sip.  The hunger and desperation that beset both teacher and lost student in the anonymity of the big city.  How the TV camera has triggered the teacher's last call for hope.  When the boy recognized the teacher on TV and realized that she was specifically looking for him, how could anyone not be touched by his feeling of happiness, relief, and self-pity?

It is unfortunate that lack of resources, kids just dropping out of school in order to work, help the family, or move to the city to work, and the limitations in choices when the kids grow up are realities in many impoverished schools, both rural and urban.  "Not One Less" is a movie that brings us closer to reality and makes us think about what we can do or contribute to improve other people's lives.