I have done reviews for the new "special edition" DVD of "Annie" and also the Disney remake from 1999.  Both of these were only worthy of 1 star but the actual film from 1982 really deserves 5 stars in my opinion.  "Annie" was my favorite movie when I was a kid.  It was always a special treat when my Dad would allow me to stay up late to watch it.  At one point I had actually memorized the entire film line for line.  For a little girl it's a fun movie with great songs.  Now that I am older I can watch the film with new appreciation and really wonder why it didn't get better reviews when it came out.  I may have figured out why that is though.  I believe it had to do with the comparison between the movie and stage musical.  The people who loved the live show seem to be partial to that where as most people who have only seen the movie, like me, think it's great.  I believe the movie stands on it's own when not being compared to anything and had that comparison not been an issue it probably would have received proper reviews.  I understand how people can be partial though.  I definitely am when it comes to this film because it's what I know.  Still, I can't see how certain aspects could go unnoticed.  As I was older I was really able to appreciate Carol Burnett's performance as Miss Hannigan.  I can't imagine anyone making this character come more alive.  She's detestable while being entertaining at the same time.  Disney really missed the mark on this character when they remade to movie.  Another element I can really appreciate as an adult is the relationship between Annie and Daddy Warbucks and how it developed naturally throughout the movie.  He starts out incredibly hard hearted, but through the charm of a dirty, almost homely, little orphan he sees there is more to life than just money and power.  She truly wins him over.  Because of all these things I still love watching this movie through the eyes of my inner child.  It can cause me to get a little misty eyed, but maybe it's because I am a sentimental sap.  There is just so much to enjoy from beginning to end.  I am especially glad I was able to get a copy of this DVD edition before it went out of print because believe me, widescreen is really necessary with this movie.  All my life I only saw it full screen and watching it on this DVD I was able to see all kind of little things I missed.  It's worth trading in the extras for.