This is a great production of Don Carlos, partly because it includes Act I which is so often omitted. Here we have Verdi's original French version of the opera. Without Act I, the opera doesn't come alive for me until the final two acts because it's not until then that all the characters feel like flesh and blood people. In Act I, we get Don Carlos and Elisabeth's touching love duet, followed by the heartbreaking choice on her part to marry Carlos' father. These scenes make the subsequent motivations and sufferings of the characters clear, starting in Act II with Don Carlos' and Rodrigue's Oath Duet (which had never fully made sense to me) and ending with Elisabeth's Act V aria in which she recalls the joyous moment she shared with Don Carlos at Fontainebleau (the setting of Act I).

Karita Mattila, as Elisabeth, is the star of this production. Her voice is rich, strong, and expressive; and, as icing on the cake, it's mysteriously sweet. Her high pianissimo is breathtaking. She's perfection as Elisabeth, a tragic figure trying to do the right thing politically, but in secret mourning for her lost love and her lost country. Her final aria, "Toi qui sus le neant," is stunning.

Roberto Alagna is unpredictable on DVD. His voice is not always beautiful to listen to. It can grate (one reviewer called it "leathery" and another "thin and tinny") and he has a tendency to turn sharp. But, on key or not, his voice is always expressive and he's totally committed to his characters onstage. I think he's terrific here, using both voice and acting ability to portray Don Carlos' weaknesses and tormented soul. As a bonus, he and Mattila have great onstage chemistry.

The rest of the cast is strong too. There's not a weak link. As a result, we're treated to sterling displays of the major voice types: soprano and tenor (already discussed); mezzo-soprano (Waltraud Meier as Eboli); baritone (Thomas Hampson as Rodrigue); and bass (Jose van Dam as Phillip). This is a great production, one of the best operas I've seen on DVD.