During a scene in the Secret of NIMH, Mrs. Brisby, the film's heroine, reads an inscription that says: "You can open any door if you only have the key." The nuance, if you listen to the lullaby during the end credits, is that this key is love. In a film rich with nuances, this one is the key not only for Mrs. Brisby but also for the film itself, for it was Don Bluth and his team's obvious love for the art of animation that enabled them to create this moving dramatization of Robert C. O'Brien's novel.

The Secret of NIMH is as much for adults as it is for children. Emotional and often tense, it explores what it means to be truly human, courageous, and loving.

The film, which departs somewhat from the novel, is about a widowed field mouse, Mrs. Brisby, who must move her children before the farmer crushes her home during the spring plowing. But her youngest son is critically ill with pneumonia and cannot be moved. After rescuing a lonely but charming crow, Jeremy, Mrs. Brisby visits with his help the Great Owl, hoping that he can solve her conundrum. The solution, the Owl says, is to seek help from the feared and mysterious Rats of NIMH, who live in the rosebush near the farmer's house.

During the film, as Mrs. Brisby repeatedly risks her life to save her family, she learns many secrets. She learns the secret of her husband's death and his connection with the Rats. She learns about the Rats' struggle. And she learns that, with her mother's love and courage, she possesses that essential but elusive key to open any door.

The Rats of NIMH, collectively, are one of the most evocative symbols in storytelling of the question of humanity, what it means to be human, to think and feel as a human. Their struggle represents the central question of humanity -- that of morality. Once tortured at NIMH (the National Institutes of Mental Health) by "humans," and genetically engineered to develop intelligence associated with humans, the Rats are divided about their destiny. Should they live in the rosebush, stealing food and electricity from the farmer's stores, or should they leave to build their own civilization, a society based on moral choices? Should they help Mrs. Brisby? Some of the rats consider her to be one of "the lower animals" who should fend for themselves, yet others feel compassion and honor her husband's courage in helping to free them from NIMH.

In the Rats' and in Mrs. Brisby's struggles, we ask ourselves what it means to be human and whether we, considering our behavior towards others, are truly human. Is morality, is humanity, a province belonging only to us? Does it belong to us at all?

I think it's not too much to say that this story charges us to consider whether we, who experiment on "the lower animals" and disregard them, are not as human as the Rats, for we are building our society on practices many consider to be immoral choices, whereas the Rats seek a society based on moral choices.

This is an intricate film with an evocative score, backgrounds, character body language, and script to express the urgency and violence of the characters' struggles. But it is also an inspiring story with Jeremy's reliable comic relief and -- a spoiler here -- a happy end. As an artistic work, it shows what can happen when artists have the key and cooperate to use it.

I recommend to parents that you watch this with your children and discuss it with them to the degree you feel comfortable. It's one of the better ways to explore valuable lessons about courage, compassion, morality, and love.