I am sure my title for this review will generate more than a few cyber-eyerolls, but I mean it in all seriousness (kind of). This movie is chock full of all the American pop-culture references you can handle. These range from Christian Slater-as-Clarence's comic book store ("Heros for Sale"), to his predilection for 70s kung-fu movies, to Clarence's invocation of himself as Steve McQueen: "We now return to Bullitt already in progress...", to the Elvis figure that actually haunts him and directs him at key moments in his life (an Elvis that is played in a sort of cameo by Val Kilmer). It also has some of the best, and oddest, performances of pretty much everyone involved: Val Kilmer (as Elvis mentioned above), Dennis Hopper IS Clarence's ultimately wise but washed-out security guard father living in a trailer by the railroad tracks, Brad Pitt has a great small role as "Floyd" the good-natured stoner (another one of his great "grimy" characters), James Gandolfini (Tony Soprano) makes what might be his film debut(?) as a sadistic hit-man, Gary Oldman is perfect as the gloriously pimped-out and evil "Drexel", and how could anyone forget Patricia Arquette as the jiggly "Alabama"?
  As an example, one of the best scenes in this movie, and one of my all-time favorites, is the "interview" between the Mafia-envoy played to cold perfection by Christopher Walken and Dennis Hopper. This pairing alone makes this movie worth the [money]. The key moment is when Dennis Hopper realizes there is no good way out of this for him, so he tries to goad Walken into killing him before he is forced to give away the whereabouts of his son. To accomplish this, he gives Walken and all the other hit-men packed into his trailer a little history lesson on the genetic roots of their distinctive Sicilian phenotype.
  Throw this all together with the pacing and camera work of "Top Gun" (thanks to director Tony Scott) and a typically-brilliant script provided by Tarantino, and that is why I would tentatively nominate "True Romance" as my "Best American Movie of the early-90s".
P.S.
  Some other great performers that I didn't get a chance to mention in my review, and that make this movie as entertaining as it is, are: Michael Rappaport as the dopy aspiring actor (auditioning, of all things, for a one-time role as Crook #2 for an episode of "T.J. Hooker" that is set to co-star Peter Breck!), Chris Penn and Tom Sizemore as over-zealous narc squad partners, and Bronson Pinchot is wonderfully whiny as a movie producer's whipping boy and go-fer named Elliot. This is a great movie!