I'm sure there are many reviews about this movie under the regular release.  I'll comment a bit specifically about the superbit version that costs more for higher quality video and audio (without the extras on the disk).  To really get any advantage here you need to have a digital TV (preferably HD but ED will probably work too), a DVD player that puts out a progressive signal (vs. interlaced), and a component or digital connection between your DVD player and TV.  IMO if you don't have all three of these you won't get the benefit of Superbit and should save your money.

This was my first Superbit disk, so I had high expectations.  I'd say there's good news and bad news here.  The good news is that I do think the picture is visibly better.  There is definitely more detail and you can seem more subtle features (texture, reflections, etc.) in the picture.  This also helps some of the dark scenes (many in this movie) with more visible detail.  The bad news is that there's so much more detail that you can see the grain of the film.  I know that's normal for a movie shot on film and it doesn't really bother me (unless I'm looking for it).  However, I do think it detracts slightly from the perceived quality of the picture.  Compare this, for example, to a movie shot in digital and you'll see what I mean.  I'm sure there's some debate over what defines good picture quality so YMMV here.  Finally, the sound is excellent on this DVD, but I can't say that it's significantly better than on the original release over a Dolby Digital system.

So, in the end I'd say that Superbit is great if you really love a movie and want the best PQ you can get for it.  I think that Superbit is probably better for older movies that they can clean up for DVD transfer than for newer movies with a decent original DVD transfer.

Remember that if you want all the extras you won't get them on Superbit.  My one complaint about this specific DVD is that they used the theatrical release rather than the (now available) director's cut.

Hope this is helpful!