For many fans of "classic" Doctor Who (the series' initial run from 1963 to 1989), every story is a "classic." "Horror of Fang Rock" truly lives up to the term--a near-perfect blend of masterful plotting, strong performances and a meticulous evocation of time and place to create a genuinely frightening tale of alien invasion. And yet "Fang Rock" had to overcome so many production obstacles and little twists of fate it's a miracle the story was ever produced at all, let alone that it has endured as a series classic.

First off, it was almost never written. When former Doctor Who script editor Terrance Dicks was invited to write a serial for the show's 15th season, he was initially commissioned to write a vampire story, another in the long line of tributes to gothic horror that Dicks had penned over the years. Story development had reached a fairly advanced stage, in fact, when word came down that the BBC planned to adapt "Dracula" into a high-gloss miniseries starring Louis Jourdan, and the network forbade Doctor Who to feature a vampire story that season.  So Dicks had to crank out a substitute script in short order.

Tom Baker hated the new script, and director Paddy Russell agreed with him that it wasn't as strong as the vampire story she had seen before plans changed (that script would eventually be produced as "State of Decay" in 1980). Baker took out his frustrations on the cast and crew, missing cues on purpose,  quarrelling with Louise Jameson and raging that the dialogue he was being asked to say was "rubbish." (Part of the problem was, he resented Jameson's casting for the series in the first place because, after the departure of Elisabeth Sladen as Sarah Jane Smith, he had wanted to try playing the Doctor without a companion.) Baker nevertheless turns in a menacing, if dialed-down, performance, especially as he informs Leela that he's made a mistake and locked the monster inside the lighthouse instead of locking it out.

Meanwhile, the show's producers were preparing to introduce a new, regular character to the series, the robotic dog K9. Dicks wisely declined to include K9 in his Edwardian-era horror story set in a lighthouse (the mind reels at the prospect), which meant that "Fang Rock" had to be broadcast before the first K9 story, "The Invisible Enemy," which was actually produced first. If Dicks hadn't, "Horror of Fang Rock" as we know it would never have happened.

On the production side, Russell was vexed with the many technical challenges posed by the story. The script, she felt, placed too many scenes in the lighthouse's lantern room, whose towering glass panels might pick up unwanted reflections of the cameras and crew. The other lighthouse rooms were too small for the actors to move around in easily, and their circular walls made it difficult to position cameras for the needed shots. Further complicating matters, production was moved to Pebble Mill Studios in Birmingham, which Russell worried lacked the technical expertise to handle the visual effects required. Finally, she was never satisfied with the design of the alien, which was basically an illuminated glob of green gelatin. Scenes shot as seen through the alien's single eye were effective, but the story would have doubtlessly been improved if the Rutan, a refugee of his race's protracted interstellar war with the Sontarans, had remained an invisible entity that appeared only in the form of humans it killed. As it is, Rutan's true appearance is revealed too early and too often as a somewhat underwhelming giant jellyfish flopping around on dry land.

Despite this technical flaw, "Horror of Fang Rock" remains a masterpiece of sci-fi horror and suspense.  The DVD does not come with the customary making-of documentary but two other Special Features that shouldn't be missed: a 36-minute retrospective on the career of Terrance Dicks in which he's interviewed sharing a pint with producer Barry Letts (Letts died of cancer in 2009), and a retrospective interview with the redoubtable Paddy Russell, who also directed such Doctor Who favorites as "Pyramids of Mars" as well as the landmark SF series The Omega Factor.