'Short lived, but forever loved' is a perfect title for more reasons than one. I loved this show when it aired and was very heartbroken when it ended. I wish it could have gone to its planned end, but it's probably more fitting that it did not.

Can we say open mouth and swallow entire foot? Well, that is exactly what a previous reviewer did when they said 'It was right that it was pulled 8 episodes in'. First of all in the US it was only aired for 7 episodes, the 8th one never made it to TV. On September 24, 1996 Mark Frankel, who played Julian Luna, the true star of the series, was killed in a motorcycle accident in England. That is why there were only 8 episodes and that is also why only 7 were aired on US TV. And after only 20 minutes watched I can see why they don't have a clue what the show was about and could not have given an HONEST review without having watched it all.

And comparing it to Buffy? I watched and enjoyed Buffy and it can't even be placed in the same category with Kindred. They are NOT the same kind of Vampire shows. Kindred runs more along the lines of RPG, with sexy, charismatic and brooding vampire's and some of the same clans (Ventrue, Nosferatu, Gangrel, Brujah, Toreador), who live along side of humans and don't try to bite every one they meet. Buffy just had bad vamps, which most of the time came across as brainless idiots that needed to be destroyed, who can't live along side of humans and would rather bite every one they come in contact with.

Kindred was an excellent series with a huge fan following at the time it aired. If you love Vampire's or even just like them like I do, you would not be wasting your money buying this box set. It's not all about the blood sucking, in fact there isn't a lot of blood sucking going on. It's about Vampire's living along side humans. They have jobs, a leader, forbidden love, relationships with humans, conflicts, passion, gangs...they are lawyers, business owners, musicians, painters, bikers, gypsies, artists...the list could go on.

Mark Frankel was charming, charismatic, dangerously alluring, exotic, and tragic and so was Julian Luna, his character. Mark Frankel will be deeply missed by this fan!

By the box set and fall in love with Mark Frankel/Julian Luna like I did!