Good heavens, where do they get these 'essential' Amazon reviews anyway? Sheesh. Nothing like a good dose of pomposity to motivate a reply. This movie isn't supposed to be taken remotely seriously, please. It's a goof--and a very skillful one. Sure, the plot's a mismash of twice-reheated devices, the baddies are about as subtle as week-old meat, and to watch at all requires you suspend enough disbelief to reconsider the Easter Bunny as gospel. So what? You don't go to movies like Lethal Weapon for the depth of characterization. Yes, a bit helps, but... not too much. Same holds true here. It's easy to ridicule--but it's easier to enjoy.

Movies like Long Kiss Goodnight are made or broken by virtue of their scriptwriting, and the script for LKG can more than hold its head up alongside other genre staples. A good script determines how willing an audience is not only to watch a movie--but rewatch it. (And buy it, for that matter.) Long Kiss Goodnight offeres a lot of pleasure in this department, it's got more quoteable lines than Die Hard and--yeah, let's be frank: the lead's hotter. (A perhaps more up-to-date comparison for tone would be Speed.)

The crux of the arguments over the film's virtues, however, is & I suspect will remain whether you buy--or want to buy into--the idea of doing this kind of film as a girl-thing in the first place. (Like anyone questions the validity of the premises behind James Bond movies? Come on. This is really very simple: if you enjoy films where women kick @**, you'll very likely enjoy this. If the mere idea makes your lips purse with disapproval, skip it & move on.) Not to mention--what better place to subvert expectations than at the movies?

Though the script may be better than usual, what really sells the film is Davis & Jackson--they have killer chemistry. Their scenes are filled with some terrific lines, but more than that, it's about delivery; they parry quips and insults with a good-natured banter that goes beyond making even the implausible character of Samantha almost believable: it's just plain fun watching two actors at the top of their game play off each other. No reason to turn up one's nose at A-grade actors in B-grade movies; I seem to recall some truckers-in-space thing years ago... Alien, was it?

The movie loses a bit of momentum towards the end when it makes a feeble pass at Message, but that's easy to shrug off--the editing's otherwise tight and the pace is just what it should be, fast with breathing spots. The special effects work. Because the film's pretty retro in terms of plot & setting it generally hasn't dated much, and the buddy-twist here is a much-needed change from the usual guyfests. Last, the soundtrack is excellent, I'm always amazed when a wise choice can bring something like She's Not There back from the dead. The only shame is that the album soundtrack lacks a lot of the best selections from the film, which demonstrates much taste in southern blues.

Finally: Ok, yes. That thing with the shot glass? too cool.