This is one of the most stylish of the film noir's of the 40's and 50's. Although the most framiliar of themes that crop up in Laura crop up in most film noir's (murder, homicide detective, wanting a girl who's untouchable and so on) Laura seems to handle them with more class and elegence.

Laura is a great whodunit from start to finish, leaving the audience guessing right up to the very end.

Gene Tierny is radiant, as always, Dana Andrews, is perfect as a hardheaded gumshoe detective, really the only brutish character in the film and Vincent Price actually plays a halfway decent, normal character for once. Which is nice.

Laura, like many film noirs of the time, is a very 'talky' movie. With nearly every scene entangled in conversation.

Fox Film Noir has done a magnificent job of transferring the film to DVD with the picture looking beautiful. If you're interested in comparing the original print with the new transfer, watch the trailer included in the special features on the disc and compare the picture quality to the actual film. The difference is not hard to see.

Another great thing about this DVD is the inclusion of a deleted scene, which you can choose to watch in the actual film by selecting the extended version in the features menu.

The scene was considered too controversal at the time of the movie's release (1944), and was cut to avoid a backlash. Although today the scene holds nothing that would offend anyone.

Finally, two A&E Biography's are included on the disc, one on Gene Tierny and one on Vincent Price, which, like all A&E Biography's are great for anyone interested in either actor.

Although not as good as the Criterion Collection releases, Fox Film has done an amazing job with this and their five other Noir releases, with transfers and features. However, the Fox Film Noir releases are only ten bucks, give or take and Criterion releases go for at least 40-50 bucks a pop. (Here in Canada anyway) So if you're interested in classic film noir and don't have a load of money to spend, this is the place to start.

If this review was helpful to you, look for more reviews of mine on Fox Film Noir releases coming soon!