For the dedicated fans of the "only band that matters", cue up the DVD player. This isn't simply a look into the genesis and generation of a single band, it was the very essence of music itself responding to poverty, repression, social inequality and a backlash of creativity against the brainless disco-decay of pop culture in the 70s - 80s.

While not dwelt on for long, many high points are struck - the rudimentary beginnings, their widely varied influences, the grueling marathon of songs/recordings during the Sandanista era, drummer Topper Headon's drug use and dismissal which lead to the ultimate demise of the band (hearing Joe lament about the chemistry falling into ruin with the loss of Headon, he still sounds, decades later, just as frustrated as he did then), the lack of glamor, the break-neck pace inherent in touring and recording.

Glimpses of the punk scene in its raw embryonic form, backstage shots, shadowed entities in clubs, poke through every so often, giving the documentary an inclusive man-on-the-street feel, though the ridiculously brisk pacing ruined any real feeling of intimacy. Shots of the the Damned, Richard Hell, Gen X (with a very young Billy Idol cutting the figure of possibly the world's most beautiful punk ever), the Sex Pistols, the Ramones, etc, brings the scene to life all too briefly. I felt as if I were staring into a painfully alive world and not staying long enough to absorb any of it.

What I found the most engaging were the extra interviews aside from the main production, one-on-one conversations with the band members uninterrupted every 2 seconds with interesting but twitchy graphics. So much has been said about the late Joe Strummer, feral intense front man who sported a mohawk like no one else, yet hearing his impressions from his own lips is truly worthwhile, especially for those who've been following the band for a long time. First-person anecdotes prevent this movie from being one monotonous string of gigs, dates and concert footage. Joe's electric presence, his mystical manipulation of words, his innate toughness and fight are what made him the enduring force he was. It's what we remember him for; it's his legacy.

The interviews with Topper, Mick and Paul were intriguing, casting more light on the generally overshadowed not-Joe Strummers. Mick Jones' uncanny ability to write/stage songs, and his obvious talent comes through in a surprisingly humorous no-regrets way. His manner of expertly manhandling a guitar is a must-see. Paul Simonon, responsible for the naming of the band, added an aesthetic and sensitivity to the mix, particularly his fondness for reggae that heavily influenced the sound. His artistic leanings enriched the experience with touches of flair and subtlety not generally found amidst such a lacerating acidic genre. Topper, suffering bad health and looking quite ill, has a chance to express his view of the band, though I felt the total lack of him during the first part of the documentary to be off-putting, as if he were a hole in the air. Let's face it - his dismissal was the beginning of the end, so his absence was glaring, even though I'm sure the point was to introduce the players as they came on the scene. It simply didn't work for me.

In the end, I have a big beef with the rapid progression, the nearly ADD jump-jump-jump "nexting". Those not as familiar with the Clash may find this disorienting and confusing. Naturally, there's a difficulty trying to make an even-keeled documentary about a music scene that was not only rattling the socially acceptable norm in just about every venue, but one that uniquely erupted and burnt out in a frantic rush of spiked hair and Marxist "down with the establishment" anthems. Punk was for a time only, too furious and specific to a moment to last or be sustained in it's original form. Getting familiar, on a human level, with the creators and sustainers of that culture shock is a must for full understanding of what happened. I would recommend reading Johnny "Rotten" Lydon's autobiography, "No Irish, No Blacks, No Dogs" for a fuller picture of the scene itself.

Around 2005, the BBC ran a poll for who was the "most punk rock" and John Lydon edged out Joe for first place. Not surprising. Yet also worth noting: Johnny Cash made the list. That's punk rock, and as Joe said, "Punk rock is what it's all about".