The word hokum originated as stage slang when people put together the words "hocus-pocus" and "bunkum".  One of its central meanings is a nonsensical waste of time. The word hokum could have been invented to describe "Bulletproof Monk".
"Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon" notwithstanding, Chow Yuen-fat should never have moved to Hollywood. With the exception of that movie, which was partly Hong Kong produced anyway, he hasn't done a decent piece of work since he went there. And he's done less work there in the past seven or so years than he used to do in one year in Hong Kong. 
"Bulletproof Monk" is yet another addition to the genre that might be known as lousy movies based on indifferent comic books. It begins moderately spectacularly with a fight on a rope bridge hanging over a ravine. The monk with no name (Chow Yuen-fat) is fighting his master. He proves his worth, and his master tells him he's now ready to look after the Scroll of the Ultimate. 
"Whoever reads it aloud in its entirety," says the master, "will gain the power to control the world." The question to ask ourselves is why the deities, whoever they are, created such inflammatory objects in the first place. 
This supposedly takes place in 1943. The Nazis turn up to capture it, but Chow Yuen-fat's character escapes, and the movie flashes forward to the present and a nameless city that might be New York but is nameless because this is a cheap movie and the budget only stretched to filming in Canada. Sixty years have passed and the ageless monk is soon to find the person who is to replace him as the scroll's guardian.
The monk, scroll in briefcase, encounters a pickpocket named Kar (Seann William Scott). Kar manages to steal the scroll, which is pretty dumb of the monk considering he's supposedly the top dog in the job of protecting it, after which he's taken to the underground den of a gang of thugs. This gang is led by Mr. Funktastic (Patrick Hagarty), who has his name tattooed across his chest, and also includes the beautiful Bad Girl (Jaime King), who turns out to be not so bad after all. 
As well as "Bad Girl", there's genuine feminine villainy in the role of Nina (Victoria Smurfit), who is a third-generation Nazi.
"Bulletproof Monk" was written - if that's the word - by Ethan Reiff and Cyrus Voris, and based on the comic book by Brett Lewis and RA Jones. John Woo and Terence Chang played a part in producing it, once again apparently proving my theory that the reason some Hong Kong film-makers do OK in Hollywood is that at least one area of Hollywood has fallen off in quality enough that even the more mediocre of Hong Kong movies can get made there now. 
It's all directed, pretty much as dully as possible, by a guy called Paul Hunter who apparently previously directed music videos. This movie has none of the slickness of style you associate with music video directors, and I don't mean that in a good way. The cinematography by Stefan Czapsky is lacklustre. 
Even Chow yuen-fat isn't looking so good in it. He's put on weight. He has a lousy haircut and lousy lines to speak. He's doing more acting in English, and - unfortunately - his acting in English is not much better than Sammo Hung's. Let's hope that another Asian film-maker will give him the chance to do something decent soon. Seann William Scott - who was in "American Pie", "Road Trip", and "Dude, where's my car?" surprised me by being more watchable. 
But it doesn't make any difference. "Bulletproof Monk" is all garbage anyway. And garbage with no style, which makes it even worse.