Well, now all the folks who wish writer/director Meir Zarchi would explain his controversial, infamous, and disturbing rape and revenge film can get their wish for the price of this Millennium edition DVD, which includes a feature-length commentary by Zarchi.  In this commentary, Zarchi confirms what this film's defenders (including me) have been claiming all along -- that his intention was definitely not to promote rape to his male viewers, but rather to expose the true ugliness of the crime.  He talks at length about the real-life encounter with a rape victim that inspired the film, and about the people he worked with in making it.  He also discusses the technical aspects in enough detail to prove this is not the shoddy, haphazard production some folks want to claim it is.  I also learned a few interesting facts about the film business in general.  For example, when you submit a movie to the MPAA, they'll tell you it has to be cut to get an R rating, but they won't tell you WHAT to cut.
Besides answering your questions about the film, Zarchi's commentary also provides a clue as to what sort of person he is.  Overall, he comes across as intelligent, articulate, and even compassionate.
However, he also comes across as a bit egotistical, which is why the second feature-length commentary by Joe Bob Briggs is useful for its more balanced perspective.  Although Briggs defends the movie, pointing out specific scenes that exemplify its anti-rape viewpoint, he's objective enough to point out flaws where he sees them.  For example, why on earth did Johnny send the mentally-challenged Matthew back to the house to kill Jennifer, when Matthew was almost certain to bungle the job?  Briggs also addresses two ethical questions that have always bothered me.  The first is whether Matthew deserves to die, and the second is whether Johnny's wife and children deserve to have their husband/father respectively taken away from them.
This DVD also includes various trailers, TV spots, and posters, including some promoting the movie under its original title, DAY OF THE WOMAN.  There are also posted from a wide assortment of countries, in a wide assortment of languages.  I wish the extras had also included the original version of the opening, with the title DAY OF THE WOMAN in the credits, but maybe there are no prints in existence.
So, if you want to own this movie on DVD, this is the edition to buy.  If you own an earlier edition, you might consider selling it to raise part of the price of this one.