Ferris Bueller's day off
 Ferris Bueller's day is a classic comedy that is a must see.  The movie takes place in Chicago and the suburbs of Chicago.  This movie was filmed in the 80's and does a good job of portraying the styles of the 80's.  The whole time however Ferris has found ways around getting into and out of trouble.  Ferris decides to miss school like he has several times so far in the school year.  His best friend, Cameron Frye (who also doesn't go to school on this day) is at home while Ferris convinces him to hang out while they have a wild and crazy day off.  My favorite quote from this movie is when Ferris says "Life moves pretty fast. If you don't stop to look around once in a while, you could miss it."
 He first fakes being sick, which was the easy part.  People think that he's dieing of some life threatening disease.  Meanwhile, his sister knows that he's faking and she tries to find a way to catch him in the act, because she doesn't think its fair that she has to go to school when he doesn't and he always gets away with everything.  It seems like he and his sister are competing with each other throughout the whole movie.  She got a car when she turned sixteen, and Ferris got a computer when he turned sixteen.  But Ferris uses his computer to get him out of school trouble and she will just leave and get into more trouble.
But this movie isn't only about his sister its more about him.  He doesn't have much planned on his journey for fun but he does know that this will definitely be a day to remember.  Once he and Cameron meet up at Cameron's, he decides to call out his girlfriend from high school.  With much humor Cameron called the high school as her dad saying that there has been a death in the family and she would have to leave to go the funeral.  The principal, Ed Rooney however, knows that her boyfriend is Ferris and doesn't believe the call is actually Ferris.  He says things that he shouldn't say to Sloane's  father if her grandmother really did die.  Then as they're having the conversation Ferris calls the high school.  The secretary, Grace, is going nuts because Ed thinks he talking to Farris when he was not. Farris called in to ask the school to give the books and any school work that he missed to his sister.  Then Ed, in shock, apologizes to Sloane's father and the whole time it was Cameron on the phone.  Ed, throughout the whole movie is determined to catch Ferris in his own game and even leaves school, and breaks into the Bueller household to catch him, but he always fails.
 Somehow Ferris got Cameron to take his dads Ferrari out to pick up Sloane and they go Chicago and see and do many things that are crazy.  I could tell you them but I think that you should see this amazing movie for yourself and laugh throughout all the humor is has.  You will not be disappointed when you but or rent this movie.  I've never heard of anyone who did not like this movie.