In general, I don't mind the extra footage added to the movie. Some of it could have stayed lost, like the scene where Elwood leaves his job, but some of the other footage is fantastic. We get to hear the full length versions of such songs as Boom Boom Boom, Peter Gunn Theme, Can't Turn You Loose and Everybody Needs Somebody to Love. Those alone make the movie great. It's also great seeing any kind of extra footage with Belushi in it. When someone dies that young, seeing the extra footage is like coming across home video of somebody that you didn't know previously existed, so you get to have extra look at someone. This movie shows how the original was butchered so badly in the editing room after Universal ordered it cut down. They don't have a copy of the real original version which was close to 3 hours long with an intermission, as it was destroyed before the movie was theatrically released. The movie was made at a time when MTV was not yet established, therefore, people's attention spans were not as short. So while some reviewers here might complain about the extra footage of the Blues Bros parking the Bluesmobile in the alley, as a fan of films, especially those made up until 1980, I love the attention to the details that filmmakers put into their works. It reminds me of Apocolypse Now and The Good The Bad and The Ugly because of the way the directors took a long time establishing their shots. It's a well made film in spite of itself. I know the film went over budget and that Belushi was messed up on coke and the film was too long in length and short on jokes. It also came out against The Empire Strikes Back and during a year that movie attendance was down in general. The critics crucified it but the majority of them didn't even know who the Blues Brothers were and went after the movie because at the time it was the most expensive comedy ever made. Not unlike the Godfather Saga/Complete Epic or Apocolypse Now Redux or the director's cut of Leon:The Professional, the extended scenes are of great interest but don't compliment the timing of the movie as a whole. But if you are like me, you are a fan of all these movies, so you don't care. In spite of it all, The Blues Brothers manages to be a memorable classic and the extended version is interesting enough to warrant a look. It did wonders for blues music and blues artists. Until this movie, I had never heard of or listened to Sam & Dave, Wilson Pickett, Otis Redding, John Lee Hooker, James Brown, Aretha Franklin & Cab Calloway. Many others, including me, were introduced to these greats because of this film, and that itself is testimony to the greatness of the film. In my top 20 of the greatest movies of all time and one that definitely needs to be in your library. Tons of quotable lines. Long live Joliet Jake!