I liked this movie... unexpectedly!  I say that because the reviews were so bad, but I wanted to see Jet Li nonetheless.  So starting with low expectations, I was really impressed.
OK, let's start out by saying that Jet Li is a terrific athlete and martial artist.  In this flick, some of his stunts are wired but that doesn't take away from him in the least.  All the fight scenes are inventive and crisply executed.  The serious scenes, like the Hong Kong jail and the final fight with Kai, are packed with action and creativity.  The funny scenes, like getting away from the gang of bodyguards and the football game fight, are just the right combination of comedy, parody, and serious moves.  So the fighting is great.  See it for this alone.
But two other things stand out, which provide the unexpected pleasure.
First, the characters and relationships.  Although the plot is a little muddy (OK other reviewers, maybe it's downright turgid!), it still makes sense and is much better than most martial arts flicks. But the plot allows for excellent character development.  I was surprised at the dialog that exposed the depth of both father-son relationships... the brother-sister relationship... the betrayal by the #2 men... the black vs. Chinese gangs... the subtelties you don't pick up until the second viewing... and many good scenes.  Somebody tried to put together a great script.  They didn't quite suceed, but it's still pretty darn good.
Second, the love story just worked.  It was not overdone, and developed slowly and believably during the film.  There's no sex (unfortunately, given how great Aaliyah looks!) but there's still a tenuous initial connection growing into a subtle but effective matching of unlikely bedfellows.  The Romeo and Juliet theme is not overplayed at all... just a realistic story of two people from different camps but with a common perspective.  Hot it's not, but rich it is.
Finally (I know this is three, but give me a little Li-way), the overall quality is excellent.  The music, cinematography, motorcyle and car chases, smart &amp; funny gags thrown in, and all the other technical aspects are first rate.  
So my friends, see Romeo Must Die if you want a martial arts flick with a little extra kick and emotion!