I had the misfortune to watch the new movie Elizabethtown with Orlando Bloom and Kirsten Dunst.  It has to be one of the dullest, poorly-written films I've seen in a long time.  Now, if you are a Bloom fan and want to just stare at him for several hours, then I'd suggest the movie to you.  If you are anyone else, well, I'd suggest something else.

The movie begins with Bloom, a low-level, "I only have a cubicle" shoe designer being told that he personally lost the company $970 million dollars with his new shoe design.  Oh, please.  Just as he's about to kill himself (in a slightly amusing manner), the phone rings. It's his sister informing him that his father has died, and Bloom must go to Elizabethtown, KY, to retrieve the body and bring it back in "the blue suit." On the flight, he meets Dunst, an overly-happy flight attendant.

Now, what made this movie so inane was the way that things would be mentioned and not really tied in. Or, things mentioned wouldn't be relevant.  He's not to bring back his father. He's supposed to cremate him!  What about that big job loss? How about that shady deal by Billy which bilked his father out of money?

The other things that made the movie so deplorable were the lame lines and scenes.  Oh, there are so many to pick from. How about Bloom looking at his father's body and saying, "He looks whimsical."  Or, perhaps the widow telling off-color stories on stage in front of all 300 people at the memorial service and then tap dancing to Moon River (and the whole audience thinking this is a great idea?).  Or, perhaps it is the hellion child Samson who is instantly cured of his horribleness by watching a two-minute video, "Rusty's Guide to Communication--Part 8" where he must promise to obey his parents before Rusty will blow up a house.  Oooh. But, I think I liked best the large paper mache bird which was let loose on a wire over the memorial service while the cousin's band played Free Bird. Of course, this bird sets the hotel room on fire and gives Bloom and Dunst the opportunity to stare at each other meaningfully from across the room while they are drenched by the sprinklers.

Lest you think this movie is a comedy, it is NOT!  It is told in a dull, dry way which leaves you saying, "Huh. That was dumb."  Save your money and rent something else.