Let me say first that I can't understand why people are so generous with stars in some reviews. Not just of this movie,but of any movie. Does "The Backup Plan" even deserve five stars from anyone? Would you compare this film with the likes of Casablanca,Gone With The Wind,Goodfellas or Taxi Driver? These are films that deserve four to five stars. But this trash? No!! I just wish people just didn't throw so many stars at movies that even at their best would merit a two and a half to three star earning.Anywho.
  This movie is the basic romantic comedy to an extent. Boy meets girl-she at first doesn't like him-he in turn is smitten beyond belief. They run into each other..she wants to avoid him,he wants to date. Did I mention when they met that she had just gotten artificially inseminated?? Yeah she is single and supposedly hasn't met "the one" yet so she decided to be a parent all by herself. They go on first date and well do I need to go on? Jennifer's acting was horrible and she was always in full makeup-even when getting up in the morning. Her obvious fake eyelashes annoyed me. The guy love interest gets upset when he finds out she is pregnant and acts weird and basically shows all the signs that he is not okay with it. Yet even though he is apparently not wanting to go through with it,this is a movie so you know how it will end. One scene that annoyed me was when she drove out to his farm in the country and besides where she gets into an accident while pregnant-which is supposed to be funny??-she is inside his kitchen and spots a pot of chili and some fresh bread. She kinda looks for a spoon but never even opens a drawer. She just grabs a handful of bread slices and dips the whole thing into the pot-I am not kidding-and starts eating it like she hasn't eaten in weeks! She is shoving this into her mouth and chili is all over her hand and mouth and he walks in behind her with flowers. He sees this and doesn't ask what is wrong with her? No pregnant woman would act this way.I've been pregnant...we aren't starving pigs!!They play on this theme throughout her pregnancy and she is constantly eating. She is eating chicken in bed and attemps to make love with him but he is turned off by a piece of it in her hair. She moves back to her side and sees some chicken under the cover and eats it.Then the whole support group thing got on my nerves. The birth scene was ridiculous and unnecessary. All in all this was just one awful picture. Please avoid unless you want to waste two hours of your life!!!!