The main theme of Brigadoon is a concept dear to the hearts of all hopeless romantics such as myself - "Love conquers all." It is the story of the magical Scottish village that materializes out of the highland mists for just one day every hundred years, and thus has too little contact with the outside world to lose its simple innocence, love and peace. It is the world that many of us need. To paraphrase one of the characters, "When I go to sleep at night, I sometimes hear voices. I can't understand what they are saying, but sometimes I think it's the sound of the outside world. There must be many, many people out there searching for a Brigadoon." If the world needed a Brigadoon in 1954, then all that I can say is that now, in the year 2001, with the present state of the world is "Boy, do we ever need it now!"  The film features arguably the two best dancers in the world, Gene Kelly and Cyd Charisse, and an absolutely gorgeous musical score by Lerner & Lowe. It was nominated for three Academy Awards - for Art Decoration, Costume Design and Sound Recording. With all this going for it, one would think that everyone would be happy, but such was not the case. The main flaw that the critics, both professional and amateur, seem unable to forgive is that while the film was originally planned to be shot on location in a real Scottish village, the filming was changed to indoor sets in Hollywood. There have been various reasons given for this change; economy cuts at MGM reflecting declining public interest in musical films, a persistent rainy season in Scotland that would have impacted the shooting schedule, and that the powers at MGM felt that a Scottish village just didn't resemble a Scottish village closely enough. The real reason was probably the first of the three; indeed the last great MGM musical, Gigi, was filmed a mere four years later.  But if you can overlook the indoor sets and just let Brigadoon work its gentle magic, then you are subjected to an experience of total beauty and enjoyment. The crown jewel of the film is the dance by Kelly and Charisse to one of Lerner & Lowe's most beautiful songs, "The Heather on the Hill", which then becomes the love theme of the film, playing gently in the background when the two of them are together. Van Johnson is in perfect contrast to Kelly as his sarcastic, wisecracking friend who accepts the real world as he knows it and refuses to accept anything beyond his understanding.I have loved this movie since I first saw it many years ago, and it is my sincere hope that every hopeless romantic like me will be lucky enough to get an opportunity to see it.