Okay, it wasn't that bad. The soundtrack was gorgeous, very Dancing with Wolves.

The first half of the movie helped to clarify what Hawthorne's novel, the Scarlett Letter, left vague and unclear. The rest of the movie, however, seemed to miss what the novel intended by a mile.

The last scene should have been Hester, Arthur Dimmesdale, Pearl and Roger Prynne all on that scaffold together, with Arthur dying, clutching his heart. This is a very rich, layered and operatic scene. It was non-existent in the movie.

Sometimes you wonder if the people who produced the movie even read the novel. Arthur Dimmesdale's character, specifically, is supposed to be losing strength because he's weakening under living a lie. But he looked powerful and strong to me, running around, riding a horse. Arthur was also supposed to be seen clutching his heart on occasions (it's to signify the pain he is under while choosing to live a lie). This is all very clear in the novel, and you don't even have to read all that closely to pick up on these key actions.

And when you start cutting and changing from what the novel intended, then the rest of the story starts to fall apart. The second half of the novel picks up when Pearl is 7 years old. In the movie, by trying to do the whole thing while Pearl is a baby, we miss out on some deeply thematic and layered scenes. In the novel, Pearl is a feisty child, she refused to let Arthur Dimmesdale kiss her, because she can't understand how Arthur can hug her in private, but ignore her and her mother in public. Since Pearl is a baby in the movie, instead of a precocious 7-year-old, she can't express much of this, can she? No.

Character transformations. Weak! The novel mapped this out for the screenwriters, too! But because of all the changes, the character transformations go virtually undetected. In the movie, Hester is defiant and powerful from the beginning. That's not the case in the novel. Sure she's defiant, but it's very nuanced, but nonetheless, Hester is still weak in the beginning. And towards the end of the novel, Hester gained more and more strength, while her lover, Arthur Dimmesdale, weakens, and so did Roger Prynne as a matter of fact; Roger was consumed by his own jealousy. These transformations happened toward the end almost one after the next, like a symphony coming to a close. This is what makes the novel a classic.

But for what it's worth the movie was entertaining, at least. But read the novel, it is a first-class opera!