Let me start off by saying that I'm not a war movie buff, like the other reviewers here seem to be.  I never really watched all of "Platoon" and I still feel that the first fifteen intense, minutes of "Saving Private Ryan" is what actually saves it from being completely boring and just plain middling for the rest of it.  But, getting back to "Enemy at the Gates", I really don't like war movies and American war films in particular, are almost always one-sided.  This movie however, covers a portion of the war that is almost never told, the Russian front and particularly the battle for Stalingrad.  This movie deserves major props for tackling a part of the war that Hollywood refused to acknowledge (instead creating yet another anti-war film or worse yet, an imitation John Wayne piece of [...] like "We Were Soldiers") and script writers avoided at all costs in an effort to create another "Full Metal Jacket" for American consumption.  This movie's realism isn't about what war really looks like, in the way "Private Ryan" was (although, I think you'd be hard pressed to say that the beginning of "Enemy" is any less powerful or chaotic than "Private Ryan's" was)this movie actually focuse's on story, not war and on people and the choices they make during one.  This movie is just that...a movie... so, if you're expecting complete, historical, accuracy from this film, than you're probably better off watched yet another, dreary, documentary on the A&E channel!  "Enemy" is great because you're dealing with the creation of and separating the differences between idols and heroes based on their faith, beliefs and their values.  This movie also paralells boxing, with Vasilli, as a young almost-protege', with natural skill on his way up and Major Konig is like an aged champion who knows he must face the young contender at some point.  In the process, Vasilli sees the champion/Konig in action first hand and is awed by his already incredible skill, making him become a little kid again, unsure if he can even beat him now.  To top off that comparison, Bob Hoskins as Krushchev, is incredible and (probably not far off from what the real man was like in real-life)he should have gotten an Oscar for his role as Krushchev (let's face it, he was better in this than "Roger Rabbit"!).  He in fact, plays the role almost like that of a Don King-like fight promoter, who's interest in Vasilli is to promote a "fight of the century" between the "Russian" and "the German" as propaganda for the Russian side.  There is a part where Konig, begins to take an almost fatherly interest in Vasilli (and you get the sense that they both admire one another like a protege') asking "why he didn't learn to shoot from his father" and we also learn about Konig's son's death, I would have liked to have seen this storyline followed more and expounded upon.  One even wonders if they're would have been a father/son or a teacher/student relationship between them had there been no war.  As for the love interest,... completely believeable!  I don't know of any man or woman, who hasn't been in love with someone...who was in love with someone else. Where, no matter what you do (logic, reason, change of clothes, etc.) nothing can change the fact that that person just doesn't feel that way about you. If you can't understand that, than you're just missing something and I don't mean just about this movie! But seriously, you feel for everyone in this film and I think that's what really makes this film work so well.  Except Sasha, I was actually very happy when the Major finally killed him off.  First, I don't like any little boy with a girls name (except Sue of course) and this kid just tried too hard to look and be adorable! I thought he was a real piece of sh@# to begin with and he would just grow up and become an adult like that.  So when he did meet his untimely end, I actually had a nice, big, smile on my face.  When he met his end, I didn't particularly care at all..."serves him right" I thought.  Sasha, makes the little girl from "War of the Worlds" seem downright loveable!  Another thing about this movie, for anyone who doubts the love story or interest in this film.  I know a lot of women who have seen this film and they all tell me that the sex scene between Rachel Weitz and Jude Law is one of the hottest scenes they've ever seen and I've heard quite a few say that it's even one of their favorites!  If you want your girl to think you have a heart and... intelligence...than rent this film for her and you'll get plenty of lov'in!  Besides that, she'll (temporarily at least), think you're smart and courageous like Vasilli and the sex scene will keep her happy and... better yet...you won't get bored!  Grreat Move and an even greater movie because of it!  Rent it for both you and Her!