Gentlemen's Agreement, Oscar-winning film for 1947, based on a novel by Laura Hobson, is an examination of the subtle intolerances in business and public accomodations against Jews in the 1940's. Unspoken, but hovering in the background for the viewers are the recent atrocities of Nazi Germany. Although the full extent of what came to be known as the Holocaust ( not yet called such in 1947), was not completely available to the US public, the outlines and some details of German antisemitism and the extermination camps were known. The Nuremberg trials revealed much of this data as well. Thus, the Zeitgeist for a condemnation of the subtle forms of discrimination in the US was right.

From a perspective of 60 years and for younger individuals, the subtle pervasiveness of genteel antisemitism may be difficult to understand. However, many housing developments, neighborhoods, and businesses restricted their clientele. In my native city, Jews were restricted in housing to certain neighborhoods, were actively discouraged from shopping in some department stores, and of course, were excluded from many clubs. Some vestiges of this behavior still exist and the past prejudices still influence housing choices.

Many jews changed their names to gain employment ( this is depicted in the film, and I personally know of families who did this). Others born Jewish, changed religions or downplayed their Judaism to be more socially respectable. This group includes Robert Moses and Walter Lippman. This was not shown in Gentleman's Agreement, although the fear of discussing antisemitism openly was.

The movie is earnest, but stodgy. Gregory Peck's character is morally resolute and filled with righteous indignation. He is contemptuous of the moral compromises of others and his tone throughout the film is of high dudgeon. John Garfield is very good as Peck's Jewish friend, Dave. He has lived with such prejudices throughout his life, but can still become enraged when pushed hard enough.

Although much has changed since 1947, antisemitism has not been eradicated. I have heard it personally in a train in Florence, Italy, with a fellow passenger railing against "the Jewish liberal media". Jews, of course, are not the only group to be discriminated against ( this list is very long), and the message of the film can be applied universally to all such prejudice. Both as an historical document and the universal applicability of the message that such prejudice is unworthy of our shared national values and of human dignity, Gentleman's Agreement remains relevant.