I only rated this set a 4 out of 5 because I'm reviewing the DVD set, NOT the show itself. The show itself is just plain perfect. It has a target audience, a target feel, and it delivers perfectly. I have 2 favorite animated shows, Archer and Futurama. And while Futurama is definitely more family friendly than Archer, it features the same sort of goofy characters, and is good mainly due to the character interactions. Neither will win an animation award, nor should they. Futurama and Archer both have 2 of the funniest voice actors working today - Futurama has John Di Maggio, Archer has H. Jon Benjamin. Both of these guys can make you laugh reading an encyclopedia, just by how they use their voices. And that's what makes Archer shine - the voice actors.

The quick, ridiculously hilarious verbal sparring in Archer is what sets it apart from other shows. You watch an episode of archer, then go watch any animated show in Fox's lineup, and you'll fall asleep, they seem so slow. Archer, in some ways, reminds me of vintage Monty Python. Quick witted and hilarious, but often cerebral humor. It's adult humor, and doesn't even pretend to be anything but. The writing, timing, and presentation are just absolutely perfect. Some have compared this to Get Smart, and I find that comparison quite apt. If Get Smart were to be made today, it would be Archer. And that is High praise indeed.

As for the DVD set... It unfortunately falls flat on deliverance. Of course the shows look good, and it's great to have them at the ready, but in this day and age, one expects more extras. I'd have loved to have seen some of the recording sessions. I love watching these actors do the voices. When there are video games out there that have videos of the voice actors doing recordings, and DVD sets aren't, there's something backwards there. FX has been doing a lot of promos for behind the scenes stuff with the actors here with the launch of season 2, so maybe the next DVD set will feature some of that, but at the very least, one would expect some commentary. That is the only weak spot of this set, and it's just a shame that there is a weak spot at all, considering the absolute brilliance of the show itself...