I am no fan of Robert Redford's acting, so readers take note. To me, he is unconvincing in a laconic "tough guy" role; therefore, as a self-sufficient "mountain man," he doesn't cut it. Yet, in many scenes in the movie, he comes close.

The movie itself is strange. At the end, one has spent time with a man (the main character, Jeremiah Johnson) whose life is as aimless after many years in the mountains as it was when he first headed west. At about 1/3 of the movie, he actually seems to be settling down, with an Indian wife and an abandoned child (having single-handedly built a cabin consisting of massive logs and an extensive roof in just under five minutes of movie time--Pollack should have been ashamed of himself, as the sequence looks more like a Home Depot ad, 19th century version, than anything close to reality). But fate arrives in the form of an Army column seeking to rescue some stranded pioneers. Johnson reluctantly agrees to go with the column as a guide, and in the course of his work leads the troops through a sacred Crow burial site--an astonishing lapse which can only be understood in the light of screen-writing gimmickry. It is inconceivable to me that someone as sensitive to nature and alert to his environment (including the Indians), as Redford's character is portrayed, would have agreed to do such a thing, especially since he would be well aware of the (fatal) consequences.

From then on, the movie's plot consists essentially of several massacres, along with a seemingly endless series of one-on-one fights to the death as one Crow warrior after another (unsuccessfully) seeks redress for Johnson's trespass and later murders. The Redford character coolly battles his way to the end of the movie, collecting various wounds as he goes, none of which are fatal. All the mayhem takes place in highly mountainous terrain, photographed with plenty of soaring vistas.

I have found "The Edge" to be a much more convincing wilderness epic, especially if bears are your thing. But then again, not every screen writer is as good as David Mamet.