BRUCE ALMIGHTY marks the return of Jim Carrey to his ideal type of movie- a more highly evolved film reel than what was represented by his Ace Ventura days but something less than an all-out assault to build a souped-up vehicle powerful enough to win that cutthroat annual race for the coveted gold statue bearing the name of a green garbage-loving grouch who lives on a street named Sesame; this isn't a pet detective, this isn't a dramatic biopic of a deceased comedian (not that there was anything necessarily wrong with either of those approaches, it should be noted).  What BRUCE ultimately ends up being is a complete mainstream production, ready and approrpriate for a wide demographical spectrum, an escape into benign cinematic trappings which nevertheless succeeds in differentiating itself from the rest of its genre clan by benefiting from one of the best scripts of its kind.
Carrey is Bruce Nolan, a middling reporter for the local news station trapped in a hellish state where maximum potential for career advancement has been prematurely reached.  He's sick to death of being obligated to cover such puff pieces as the biggest cookie ever to be baked; such banal Americana is beneath him now, he wants to stretch his wings and score the prime anchor spot next to the curvaceous and comely Susan Ortega, played by the lovely Catherine Bell.  When he is passed over for that spot- given to his arch nemesis, one of those annoying coworkers who always gets what someone else deserves because that's just the way the politics of life play out- he has a nervous breakdown and gets into a heated argument with his girlfriend Grace (Jennifer Aniston).  
There is another, more important argument, however- Bruce spews forth an incendiary blast of invective towards old Alpha himself, God.  Morgan Freeman brings the Good Lord to life, and he brings Bruce to his office to have a few words with him.  So, you think this is easy, Bruce?  You think you've been slighted and that I'm the cause of all your problems?  How about this...I take a long overdue holiday and you can be in charge of things while I'm gone.  How does that sound?  Well, of course it sounds great.  After Bruce gets through the initial excitement of looking up pretty girls' skirts and parting a sea of automobile traffic like he was a commuting Moses, he sets about getting his reporting career back on track (a mighty fast and furious one, to be sure); he also attempts to impress his love Grace with his newfound powers.  Soon, however, his messianic honeymoon is over; as Peter Parker's gentle Uncle Ben once advised his superhero nephew, great power demands an even greater sense of responsibilty.  Being God is a metaphysical coin, and we all know that a coin always has two sides; when that other, darker side starts to reveal itself, Bruce realizes that, in reality, he's only human after all, and he seeks counsel with his new mentor.
BRUCE is, to one degree or other, a masterpiece; in a sense, it is an Oscar caliber film which got that way because it didn't try to be pretentious.  Inarguably, its first and foremost goal was to be an uplifting morality tale told through the cloned filter of a Liar Liar-type mechanism; it was that, certainly, but, as previously implied, it transcended to another level by virtue of the ubiquitous skill present within the words and ideas expressed on the screen...the writing was, simply put, surreal in its quality.  Many will take that as an overblown statement, and perhaps such a declaration is indeed a bit too colorful and grandiose; yet, there was an eerie perfection in the balance of the story, an equilibrium in play which saw every character and concept receive just the right amount of attention.  And the concepts offered supported a philosophical base which was as poignant as it was entertaining.  
A fascinating observation to make about the piece is its essential existence as a binary entity; there is a clear bifurcation seen whereby two different tonalities share equal importance- what starts out as a manic, extreme comedy of slapstick circumstance evolves almost imperceptibly into a dramatic examination of life and love and their respective vagaries.  Many films of this kind follow a similar template, of course, but the stytlistic expression in this case was handled with uncommonly accomplished technique.  What makes everything work so well- besides the direction and the script- is the perfect casting job, especially of the principals; Carrey is the only person who coud play Bruce, and Freeman is one of the only people who could take on the hardest role ever conceived (other people could be thought of for God, since the role lends itself in a way to a certain resistance of specificity, but in this context and dynamic, Freeman really proved himself, imbuing the eternal creator with a powerful understated dignity which still managed to exude holy authority).  
Bruce Almighty delivers a riotous collection of laugh-extracting physical humor and pithy dialogue.  It is also a Twilight Zone episode, seen through the lens of the multiplex-friendly movie, making it a deeper experience than something like Anger Management.  Worthy of a recommendation.