The Longest Yard

 Digging a whole and forcing oneself to overcome obstacles is something that people may face in their lifetime.  Add in some comedy, major athletes, and a football/prison plot and you have "The Longest Yard."

 The struggles of the main character, Paul "Wrecking" Crewe, lead me to analyze this feature using the Formalist analysis.  How a formalist looks at texts is finds the protagonists, antagonists and central struggle of the storyline.  He must also find the value of the text and ask the question "is it good?"

 The first antagonist of the film is Crewe's girlfriend.  He is an ex-football star and she is loaded with money.  She is basically using him for his image but she crosses the line when she tries to coerce him into wearing a goofy sailor's outfit out in front of all her friends.

 Crewe dashes out of the party and takes his girlfriend's pricy car for a joyride.  Only problem is he's drunk and this is where he runs into the antagonist Paul Crewe.  He speeds and gets pulled over by two cops.  After slurring out some insults to one of the two arresting officers, he jets away only to total the expensive car in an accident with a dozen cop cars.

 A football-crazed warden of a prison finds out about Crewe's little accident and pulls some strings to get Crewe transferred to his prison.  This is where Crewe runs into three more antagonists: the warden who wants Crewe's help with his own prison guard football team, the enormous prison guards led by the quarterback who want no help from Crewe at all, and the prisoners who really dislike Crewe.  Fist Crewe gets thrown out of the bust by two large guards.  Then the quarterback, Captain Knauer, beats Crewe some more on the way to the warden's office.  But before they enter Knauer strictly tells Crewe that he runs the show around the prison and that Crewe must turn down the warden when he asks for Crewe to help the team.  After Crewe agrees to Knauer, the warden promises the football star that his time will be much easier if he just "plays ball."  Crewe is caught in between whether or not to play ball or not when he meets his prison mates for the first time.  Being a celebrity of course they'll know him, but he walks in as one of the most hated persons in jail.  They all hate him because he was kicked out of football for shaving points off a game.  Surrounded by murderers, thieves, and all-around bad guys, Crewe is hated by all of them for cheating at a football game.

 "Wrecking" Crewe decides to side with the warden after a stint in "the hole." When asked what could help make the team better he gets himself in trouble by telling the warden all he needs is a tune-up game.  Now Crewe is to quarterback a group of guys who hate him against a superior group of guys who hate him and the rest of his teammates.

 Some of the things that help dig Crewe out of his hole are his courage and his athleticism.  In order to recruit some athletes to his team he challenges a leader of a basketball group to a one-on-one game.  He takes a beating and puts up a fight, but in the end he loses the match up.  He does however earn one guy's respect, and later more would follow.

Some more protagonists were in the form of inmates.  Caretaker befriended Crewe and served as the supply man.  He got whatever Crewe or the team needed.  Another person of mass influence was the former Heisman Trophy Winner Nate Scarborough.  Scarborough became the coach of the team, and he also helped to influence Crewe in certain areas i.e. where to find the best and most violent players.

 The central struggle of the film was the prisoners against the guards.  The guards had always been able to beat up on the prisoners, but now it was time for revenge.  But Crewe's struggle was something else.  He never really had any friends and had never admitted to anyone that he had actually shaved points.  But he befriended the inmates and now really had a sense of family.  When it becomes evident that the prisoners actually have a shot at winning the game, the warden tells Crewe to throw the game.  He starts to, and he puts his team in a hole.  But then he is re-inspired and wants to help his team win again.  The team doesn't buy his enthusiasm and they step aside and let the guards punish him.  But for once in his life Crewe has a sense of belonging and in order for them to fight for him again, he must prove it to them.  He relies on his athleticism once again buy running through and around all the guards on one play.  The football star finally gave in and admitted to shaving points, something he had never done before.  He inspires the team to leave a long-lasting mark on the guards by beating them not on the field, but on the scoreboard.

 In the end, like most sports movies, the underdogs triumph.  But is it good? Does it have value?  Of course it is good.  The movie and plot were downright awesome.  Not very often do you see prisoners getting the chance to take revenge against the guards that guard them.  Crewe shows that no matter how far down you put yourself, there are always ways to make back to the top and even change your life and the lives of those around you.