I give it 4 1/2 stars in reality, but I rounded up. "Watchmen" is a great film. I know a lot of people, including the creator Alan Moore, disagree with me. Well, let me frankly state that they are biased fools. I will explain why.

  There's two ways to look at "Watchmen." One is as a movie, without thinking about the source material. Is this regard "Watchmen" is great, because it makes you think. Maybe it's a little slow for all the automatons who want nonstop explosions, but then I'm sure you also would've preferred McG or Michael Bay behind the camera instead of Snyder. It's gritty, it's rough. Bad things happen to good people, good things happen to bad people, vice versa for both. Like all the great treasures, it appeals--not to humanity's joy of pretty lights and sounds and fire--but to resonating within us; to a degree, scaring us with what could be. It was similar to my experience with "V For Vendetta" (another Moore adaptation he [shockingly] disliked.) When I walked out of the theater, I was grateful I didn't live in V's world. Same for "Watchmen." The shots were well done, the violence never really feeling overdone because blood and bones really DO act like that. PEOPLE really do act like that.

  Looking at "Watchmen" as an adaptation of the graphic novel, I have to wonder what people are talking about when they say it wasn't accurately represented. Some of the camera shots were EXACTLY as the panels are in the comic! Maybe a thing was tweaked here or there, but otherwise it was one of the most accurate representations I've seen. Now, I know what you Doubters [also known as Mindless Moore Monsters] are saying: the ending. Well, people, I have to say the movie ending made a hell of a lot more sense than the comic's. In terms of terms logistics of the bad guy's plan alone [go ahead, MMM's, look the word up up; I'll wait] it's a better storyline. Snyder cut out only what he needed to cut out, only tweaked what needed to be tweaked. That's why I'm very excited about the Director's Cut, because it PROVES Snyder cut for necessity, not style! Anyone who thinks otherwise needs the Comedian to slap them upside the head.

  Does "Watchmen" have flaws? Yes. Manhattan's a little too proud of his firehose and the sex scene(s? can you really count Dan's failure one?) is unnecessary and rather badly acted (the only part though!) Otherwise, it's a spectacular film, both on its own and as an adaptation. Alan Moore wouldn't be happy unless it was done verbatim, scene for scene and line for line, from the source. And even then he'd still probably throw a fi