It sure was fortunate that:

The protagonist, to whom the "little girl" was sending her paintings, just happened to have a brother and friend who are documentary filmmakers with no other projects in the works, and had ample spare time resources to spend recording his unfolding relationship.

Our protagonist never wonders for a second why an 8 year-old would have access to the NY Sun (the source of original photograph),a newspaper that no one outside of the NY Metropolitan area (least of all a virtual shut-in living in a one horse town) has likely heard of. I suppose he simply chalked it up to her being precocious.

A guy who uses multiple methods of internet contact with his long distance "relationship" conveniently forgets how to use Google or other means of verifying the nature of her or her family's existence. Or believes that "two women" could create (play, record, mix, master and upload) a note-perfect rendition of a song requested by him in 20 minutes. Or, as a photographer, is blissfully unaware of reverse image searches like TinEye, or is incapable of reading photographic metadata off the pictures.

An 8 year-old painter's gallery opening would be so unceremoniously ignored by the local or, in this day and age of 24 cable news, national press. A kid gets food poisoning from a Subway in Left Testicle, Iowa, and a perky blonde reporter from FoxNews is on the scene within minutes, but not so much with a second grade art prodigy communicating with a photographer in NYC about her paintings that sell for thousands of dollars.

All three of the guys involved have access to enough disposable cash (and time) to allow for a full-on investigation in lieu of any jobs or responsibilities. Or are willing to max out their credit cards to look into something that could be solved with a simple phone call to the town's hall of records.

They brought underwater camera housings (and swim trunks) to a film shoot for a dance festival in Colorado. As well as lavalier and boom mics to capture audio of an event that would have been recorded direct through a mixing board. Perhaps this was before airlines started charging for extraneous checked-baggage, and they merely packed every possible audio/visual component they thought they could possibly need. IMAX camera?  Check.  Stedicam rig?  Check.  Klieg lights?  Check.  Ever try shoving an AVID editing console into an overhead bin?

A woman creative and clever enough to carry on a nine-month alternate identity scam with a stranger halfway across the country, complete with dozens of false Facebook accounts and more phones than Jason Bourne, managed to settle for a slow-witted bumpkin with two severely handicapped boys. Not to mention that she had enough money saved for shipping the paintings to NY and never had to explain to her husband where the money she got from her "commissions" went.

Small town postal carriers routinely bring undeliverable mail back to the post office, stamp it with "Return to Sender" and then drive it back to the home of the person who is clearly not the recipient, and place it back in the mailbox, where it won't be picked up for weeks at a time.  In a much larger city, they would have simply thrown it away and then taken a union-mandated coffee break.

The aforementioned bumpkin, who seems otherwise incapable of stringing together six meaningful words, managed to convey the entire thematic message of the film via a charming, homespun story on the porch. Also, a man who has difficulty pronouncing the word "appreciative" has the word "droll" in his lexicon.

Other than those small bits of minutia, it's a completely believable and logical movie. 100%. No question about it.  Definitely buy this movie.  Buy six copies.  And in keeping with the film's theme, use someone else's credit card.