The image in this release is amazing, I mean, if you compare it to the recent Live At River Plate it's not that good, but if you compare it next to the original VHS release or the bootleg copy that's on the internet, it's pretty amazing.

So on that side, I give it 5 stars, stunning.

The set is nice, it's numbered (I'm around 5000) and it's got some great photos, booklet and a guitar pick. 5 stars over there too.

But the audio... Oh God, the audio is horrible! IT'S MONO! Let's take the basis of the AC/DC Sound: Malcolm's guitar on the Left Channel, Angus' guitar on the Right Channel. What do you get here? Everything mixed on the middle! And even Angus is louder than Malcolm, so you can't hear Malcolm when Angus is playing...

Aparently, the masters for this release were burned in a fire in the 90s or so. But however, there's still the audio from the Bonfire release, which isn't really good, but even I can work on the stereo mix and make it all right, so what about a proffesional?

Yeah sure, AC/DC's music now belongs to Sony and this release is from Warner, so maybe they couldn't use the audio from Bonfire, but if that's the case, what's the point of releasing this? People who doesn't know much about audio are getting , I'd say even robbed with this... Warner: IF YOU SO MUCH want to release this, make a deal with Sony to use the Bonfire audio, I don't know, something that would make this an excellent release like it should have been!

The band was on fire that night, it's AC/DC in their peak... the performance is amazing. I noticed that Angus pretty much was lazy with the guitar solos... he uses the same licks and scale for most of them, and if you look at Live at River Plate, he's more inspired, more original.

I won't even mention the extras since they're pretty boring and useless... not even AC/DC music on it (they even discuss some of the songs... but nothing, just some lame soundtrack that resembles nothing with AC/DC)

So, I give it 3 stars... but it could have been Amazing.

I'm glad I won this thing on a contest, I would be freaking mad if I had to pay 30 bucks for this..