I usually avoid mainstream Hollywood domestic dramas: either they are about what the director thinks is wrong with the American family or what she thinks is an ideal one; the results are not infrequently cliched. 'Unfaithful' happily departs from the norm.
 
Diana Lane as the 'unfaithful' wife turns in a sterling performance. One has only to watch the expressions on her face as she recollects her first extra-marital sexual encounter with Paul on a train to see how conflicted her character is. She is caught up in a relationship which at one level is a bitter-sweet college romance that never was, at another an escape from staid suburban boredom, and still at another a vent for subterranean desires. Her focus and composure during the sex scenes, particularly the first, is laudable. The sex scenes in the film, except for one, have neither the saccharine serenity nor the wham-bam dullness that one would expect; they are touching, especially the final one, a genuine sense of adventure comes through them, and they reveal much of Connie's character. Her sharing her first name with Lady Chatterley, however, doesn't mean that her extra-marital relationship has any element of gung-ho abandon/idealization. But whether it's simply a pleasant, and dangerous, indulgence or whether it has a deeper significance is ambigiuous. For instance, there's that torrid bout Connie has with Paul after finding out his own 'unfaithfulness'; there are clearly darker impulses propelling Connie and its not simply a case of making a 'dirty' mistake. Fortunately, the narrative does not take on unplesant moralising tones of 'O look how she falls', but there's a decency with which her impulses are traced. That is not to say that the narrative does not have its own position on what she does. Throughout the film there is the 'cleanliness' symbolism employed; observe how when Connie is in Paul's bathroom during her first visit she doesn't want to touch the water-closet; later on she is shown having sex over a water-closet. While Connie's been 'dirtied', there are extenuating circumstances. Note the wind in the opening scene that whirls Connie round and round; she isn't totally in control of herself. Other than the water-closet and wind symbolism there is the irony in the boy's statement at the end when he asks Connie: 'Why aren't you in bed, mom?' By that time things have become muddled enough for her to quip, 'Who's bed, honey?' What is clear, however, is that Connie suffers not because she commits a trangression, but for wanting what she doesn't want; she allows herself to get entangled in a situation she doesn't want to be in.
 
It's never made clear in the film how much of a reader Martinez's character is; considering, however, his Jack-Dawsonly bohemian persona combined with Wickhamly rakish propensities, I'd say not much. Paul is a pastiche of stereotypes, not a character. This takes away from the effectiveness of the Connie-Paul outing. Think of a number between 500 and 1000, and you may be close to the number of times directors have had two lovers falling over one another when they 'accidentally' meet for the first time. And of course we had to have a school concert.
 
'Unfaithful' is clearly not immune to the befuddling cliche or two. But, the director knows where to put them. With much tension and inexorable logic the narrative chalks out the consequences of Connie's actions; in its own way it has the mercilessness of a Greek drama. In the final analysis, 'Unfaithful' remains faithful to itself.