Whew, I've been on a reviewing tear lately. It's only because I've had the misfortune of watching some really awful movies over the past few weeks. So bad in fact, I feel compelled to warn others, even though these movies have been out and reviewed for some time. Oh well, if I can save even one person a couple of dollars of their money from purchasing dreck like The Day The Earth Stood Still remake, (and only the remake, the original is a great sci fi flick) then I've done my job.

The great thing about reviewing movies a year or two, or more after they've been out is one not need delve into the plot, since you can guarantee it's been covered countless times in other reviews. So in keeping with that tradition, no discussion about the plot, only what made this movie such a turkey (just in time for Thanksgiving!). Keanu Reeves looks bored, and tired in this movie. He's also starting to show his age, which isn't a bad thing, since I'm only four years younger than he is. But as wealthy as Keanu is, he doesn't need to star in dreck like this. One read through of the script should have been enough to convince him it was poorly written. Keanu has the luxury of being super picky, and why he thought staring in TDTESS was a good career movie is quite bewildering. I also generally enjoy Jennifer Connelly's work, and she too could have afforded to thumb her nose at this script, but no, she also thought it would be a good career move. They don't need the money, they don't need the exposure, why?

TDTESS is a B movie of the caliber of Ed Wood films, that kind of bad. The dialog is a joke, a really bad joke! The military again is attacked by ultra liberal Hollywood types who rather denigrate the military than to actually ever serve themselves. So, the military in this movie are portrayed like a bunch of trigger happy buffoons without a brain in their heads. Just par for the course, and maybe only slightly less insulting than the military portrayal in Avatar. US government employee's, including the President, are also portrayed as a bunch of morons, and frankly I have to agree with that characterization! Especially true if we're talking about the current administration or the one prior. And that's as political as I'll get in this review. Lastly it all comes down to a woman, and an African American boy who become the hero's and save the day, ah, how politically correct!!!

Speaking of that boy, wow is he annoying. Will Smith if you're reading this, I'm sorry, but your kid is quite possibly one of the most annoying, obnoxious child actors I've ever seen. It was like nails on a chalk board whenever he opened his mouth. He made a bad movie even worse. Jennifer Connelly gets all teary eyed in plenty of scenes, and continually tells the alien Keanu, "we can change," while never once in the entire movie offering an action plan for how that will happen. That's not a plot hole, it's just extremely lazy film making. It's much easier to say "we can change" than to actually offer up details for exactly how we are going to change. Even more unbelievable, is with the exception of Jennifer's character, the alien is shown not an ounce of compassion from a single human being in the film, yet somehow develops a soft spot in his heart for the woman and her bratty kid in the end? I won't tell you how the soft spot alters the course of the movie if you still insist on seeing it, but it's highly unbelievable it would have played out like that were such an event to happen.

The special effects, yeah, they were there and they did their jobs, but nothing special, nothing you wouldn't expect in a sci fi flick made in the past five years. Definitely not the effects bonanza of Avatar, but enough to get the job done. In the words of Forrest Gump, "And that's all I have to say about that."

So, what he have is a quasi environmental flick that offers absolutely zero ideas for how us dumb humans will change our destructive behaviors It's preachy and condescending, and says absolutely nothing new. Of course the original Earth had nothing to do with environmental issues, but I guess the filmmakers felt they needed to make it relevant for this day and age. That would be okay if it were a good movie, but it's not. I get the feeling there were lots of script re-writes, as the movie has one of the most abrupt endings in recent memory. You could just tell everyone involved with the film knew they had a turkey on their hands and said to the heck with this, let's get it over with already! The movie offers no payoff, and thus is a waste of an hour and 45 minutes of your time. An empty, hollow movie, with bad dialog, sleep walking actors (Connelly looks almost as bored as Keanu throughout), run of the mill special effects, insulting portrayal of our military, and lots of condemnation with absolutely no solutions or fresh ideas. Sounds like a great sci fi flick, doesn't it?!

Lastly, the cameo by John Cleese was strange and out of left field. Either he really needs a paycheck, or owed someone a favor, a big favor at that!