Not long ago, I conducted an Internet search on the "best anime series." As with any such search, there were a lot of lists. As I went over some of them, Planetes kept cropping up on a number of them. I have been a fan of science fiction/space exploration stories since I was in the 6th grade and Planetes sounded like something that I'd like. Boy was I glad that I read the manga and watched this anime. As with most manga/anime combinations, I read the manga first and then watched the anime. While I found the manga very good, the anime is off the scale awesome. Those familiar with the manga will see most of the plots lines in the anime, with a few additions that I really like. My understanding is that the director and writers of the anime did not have the final volume of the manga when developing the series and had to add material to fill the entire 26 episodes. All of their decisions are, in my view, excellent ones. Across the 26 episodes, we are introduced, and get to know many characters and watch the main ones develop and grow in very believable ways. The first episode introduces us to the main characters, Ai Tanabe (a newcomer to space), Hachirota Hoshino (referred to as Hachimaki, which is headband in Japanese because he always wears one), Yuri Mihairokov, and Fee Carmichael (captain of the debris collecting space ship, Toy Box). We also meet other important characters throughout the series. Some, like Nono (a 12 year old girl born on the Moon and exceptionally tall for her age) have relatively brief appearances. All, however, are important to the overall themes of the series: our connections to others and how space exploration can strain them almost to the breaking point. The individual episodes are a combination of serious issues, like discrimination, inequality, and the power of love, to rather slap-stick comedy. I particularly liked the discussion of inequality and how the wealthy nations have the resources to exploit space for their benefit, while the poorer nations are, again, left behind. I also liked how some of the funny subplots, like the one about a group of unemployed workers pretending to be ninjas which turned very serious and moving. The series has subplots about love, terrorist plots, political maneuvering within large bureaucratic organizations, the human cost of space exploration, how smoking cigarettes can save a space station, and a family contemplating mass suicide due to crushing bills. All of them come together at the end to make this a very satisfying series. As most know, you do not have to pay for much anime or manga, given their availability online. However, I liked this series so much that I paid for the pleasure of owing a copy of it. If you believe in rewarding excellence in art, then I highly recommend that you get the manga and watch the anime. I wholeheartedly agree that this anime is one of the top 10 of all time, without any fan service or other gimmicks. (Please note that I'm not against fan service as I have given positive reviews to anime with a lot of it.) Planetes is a wonderful character driven space opera. If that is your interest in anime, than you have to see this series. A magnificent experience.