First off I have to say that I was not a fan of MMA before seeing this film. What drew me to it was the belief that it was more than just a sports film, that at the heart of the film was the relationship between the two brothers Tommy(Tom Hardy) and Brendan(Joel Edgerton). That belief was completely correct, this film manages to tell a wonderfully sad and ultimately redemptive story while at the same time being very respectful to the sport of MMA fighting.

The story of course centers around the two brothers, who are very much estranged from each other and their father, Paddy(Nick Nolte).  All three characters have issues but the most damaged is war vet, Tommy, who is played beautifully by Tom Hardy. Nick Nolte is also amazing in this as a former alcoholic who is now several years sober and trying to repair his relationship with his two sons. Although I gave lots of praise to Hardy and Nolte, I in no way mean to leave out Edgerton's performance, as I had really little interest in his character, a former UFC fighter turned high school Physics teacher trying and failing to make ends meet for his family, to begin with but I thoroughly enjoyed watching his part of the story unfold as well. I wont go in depth into the story but the basic plot is that both brothers make their way into SPARTA, an MMA fighting event put on to pit the best MMA fighters against each other until only one is left standing to claim the 5 million dollar prize, with the first part of the film focusing on setting up their personal lives and relationships with each other and their training for the SPARTA competition. The second part of the film features the brothers fights with other competitors, which are very cool btw, and leads into the conclusion of the film which I won't give away.

In all honesty I was expecting this film to be good but it completely blew me away with how great it turned out to be. It has incredible heart and lots of action and fighting, so for me it was the total package. It is about family first and fighting second but the fighting is handled extremely well and is essential to the story and plot. If you like bonus features as I do this blu ray has a lot of extras to offer including a deleted scene, gag reel, and a couple different short documentary's on the research  that director Gavin O' Connor and the rest of the crew put into the film in order to make the fighting realistic and credible.

So, in short the story was great, the characters are complex and easy to connect with, and the fighting is exciting and realistic. I loved this movie and I can't recommend it enough to people, even people like myself who are not into "sports" movies,and by sports movies I mean a film that focuses mostly on the sport and the game being played not so much the character development or a bigger, overall plot. And there is nothing wrong with those films, what I am saying is that I believe this can be enjoyed by an even bigger audience. The MMA element while essential to the film should not scare anyone away from watching this great film. This gets a very well deserved 5 stars from me because it was awesome and I can't wait to watch this film over and over again. It's simply that great.