Jack Hunter created the ultimate anti-hero in the character of Bruno Stachel, the central figure in a trilogy of novels that follow his exploits  through two world wars and beyond.  I can still remember my reaction upon  reading "The Blue Max" for the first time as a kid, and the  excitement when the movie with George Peppard in the starring role came  out.  As usual, the book delves into much greater detail insofar as  character development is concerned, i.e. 'getting behind the eyes' of the  characters as it were - one example of which is Stachel's twisted  relationship with corporal Rupp in the novel, while Rupp is barely  mentioned once in the film.  It's the dying days of World War I and the  aristocratic Imperial German Air Service is about the only place left where  it can be fought with dignity and chivalry.... at least that's what appears  to drive a common-as-dirt foot soldier (Stachel) out of the trenches and  into a fighter squadron on the Western Front.  Empires are dying and the  old lines dividing class against class are not far behind.  The pursuit of  the Pour le Merite, or "Blue Max", is something Stachel once  craved almost as a badge, to prove he was just as good as his higher-born  comrades; but now he finds himself pulled along by the Imperial propaganda  machine to be used more and more as a tool to boost public morale as his  fame grows.  Soon chivalry becomes nothing more than a bad joke as  Germany's defeat becomes inevitable.  The aerial photography is quite  stunning, a point many have made before - and it's true.  The attention to  detail when it comes to uniforms, recreation of battles, location and  authenticity is very well done.  Military buffs may still find the odd  gaffe here and there, but by and large they really do this one right.  Ursula Andress spices things up (which I suppose is to be expected when a  book is translated to film), James Mason is his usual classy self, and  Jeremy Kemp turns in a great Willi von Klugermann.  World War I aviation  enthusiasts will find little to complain about here, German military  aviation afficianados will be pleased as well, probably due in large part  to Jack Hunter doing his homework so well in the original novel.  As far as  military spectacle goes, there's nothing here that looks phony.  They just  don't make 'em like this any more.  Highly recommended...still!