I'll just say this. If almost every horror critic on the internet says this is one of the best horror flicks of the year it is a really sad year for that genere.  I mean Wolf Creek does have quite a couple of unsettling moments and it is a "real" horror flick but it is not a horror classic.

The story is very basic and the setup is the best part of the entire film.  Three vacationing twenty year olds find themselves in a cat and mouse game with a serial killer in the Austrailian outback.  But most of us horror fans know its not the story, but the execution that is important.  The further the twenty-somethings move away from civilization the greater the feeling of dread becomes.  It reaches almost unbearable limits when they finally reach Wolf Creek.  I would say up to and including the first murder scene the film is actually could have made it into my top 10 best of all time horror flicks(and I have seen over maybe 500 and I'm a fan of the genre). Its just too bad that the execution after that part does not match the beginning and has a slow decent into mediocrity and the not needed and dumb final shot(if it is a "true" story let the people who see it do researchits what really happened after all the more you think about something the scarier it is).

The movie is a very slow burn, old school type horror flick which means nothing happens in the first hour that way when the horror comes it hits a lot harder.  I've always said if you can be brutal without being gory you have what it takes to be a great horror director and Wolf Creek is more brutal than gory(the "head on a stick" moment is probably the most brutal but not very gory murder you will ever see this year).

In the end I decided four stars because of the great opening and setup.  This is a very hard flick to recommend, its bleak and depressing and its only for hardcore horror fans.  The disc is very well done and I have nothing bad to say about the audio, video, & extras.

One more thing,  a lot of people put this and Eli Roth's Hostel in the same category and they are actually polar opposites. Where that one was a more a fast-moving, throw it in your face quick hit to the gut.  Wolf Creek is a slow moving burn into your mind that tries to stay with you after you shut the TV off.  You can tell from there which one I, well, more respect than like.  This is a hard flick to actually "like"