The NightMare Before Christmas! My very favourite film. So what is it that makes the movie so incredible? Well first and foremost, it's visual beauty! This movie was filmed using a technique called stop animation - a technique that requires immense eye for detail and painstaking skill. The animators on this movie went all out to make sure this technique was used to it's full capacity - and the result is - perfect animation!! Such exsquisite attention to detail and some beautiful sets and angles make for many stunning shots as well. Secondly - it's story! That of the inhabitants of Hallowe'en Town deciding to take over Christmas for a year. The only problem is - THEIR idea of expressing love and spreading joy is frightening someone into a stroke - to their way of thinking giving out presents and decorating things with color is just weird, so Christmas is suitably warped to suit their esoteric tastes!!The result is ghoulishly funny, providing you like that kind of humour. =D  Thirdly - the characters. An ecclectic collection of freaks, ghouls, witches, devil and skeletons each perfectly content within their little lives. One of the best things about NBC is the pure innocence of these characters and they warp Christmas - they truly believe they are improving the holiday - for what better way to show someone you care than by slipping a scorpion into their shoe? They have total faith in themselves and in their leader - the indomitable Jack Skellington. One of the things I love most about Jack is his refusal to give up - even when he realises he has ruined Christmas, he doesn't let it get him down - he just picks himself back up and tries to correct his mistakes.The ever sweet Sally - a rag doll who is stitched up at the joint and can stitch and unstitch herself back up - is a bizarrely gentle heroine. She of all the characters in Halloween Town has an idea that affection can be expressed in other ways than presenting your beloved with a severed head.She is also intelligent - she knows it is wrong for Jack to take over Christmas - and brave. Oogy Boogy Man, a swinging-jazz bad guy, Lock, Shock and Barrel and the Harlequin Demon are among my other favourite characters.I guess the characters follow what I call "The Addams Family Syndrome". That family adores one another and their friends and family, and will do anything for them, but at the same time they are, by society's standards, very bizaare. They do what most consider to be weird, and even at times, cruel things to each other - but they think they are doing the right thing. They have eternal faith in themselves and are bound by very strong feelings.It never occurs to them they might be evil.And they're not - they don't betray anyone, they don't corrupt anyone and they try to set a good example for their children, and everyone is welcome in their home. The characters of Halloween are very similar to that. 
Finally,the music! Written by the brilliant Danny Elfman (who seems at his best when he teams with Tim Burton, who conceieved and produced this flick) the songs are witty,playful and very memorable.Some have a definite touch of the macabre,(Kidnap the Sandy Claws) some are intensely sweet (Sally's Song), some have definite malice to them (Oogy Boogy's Song) and some express the wonderment and general good nature of the inhabitants of Halloween Town (Making Christmas,Jack's Obsession, What's This?). All are cool! =D 
NBC is just generally fantastic film for people of all ages! Whether you appreciate it's cinematic beauty,the story it tells or just everything in general, it's well worth the look!