Don't miss out on a great movie because of Universal Studios mistake!

It has been confirmed that JET LI'S FEARLESS: DIRECTOR'S CUT, Universal's highly anticipated re-release of Ronny Yu's Huo Yuanjia biopic promising nearly 40 minutes of additional footage is missing the director's cut. Released July 8th, it promised three versions of the movie, one of which was supposed to be the complete two hour and 21 minute director's cut. However, upon inspecting the two-disc release purchased from Walmart today both discs contain only 103-minute international and theatrical versions. Other readers have been e-mailing and posting messages on this site stating the same problem which suggests this defect is widespread.

Additionally, both discs appear to function erratically in my player. Disc two displays nothing but pixels and disc one periodically will not start up. I was only able to confirm the contents of disc two by using a disc burning tool. Both discs appear to be identical and the director's cut is no where to be found despite what the back cover clearly states.

Universal was unavailable for comment at the time of writing and an e-mail sent Thursday has so far gone unanswered.

At this point I would suggest that anyone who is considering buying this release to not do so until Universal releases corrected discs and issues a statement, preferably along with a recall.

For those who have already purchased the defective FEARLESS discs and are unable to return them to the store, try contacting Universal direct during normal, weekday business hours. You may also want to notify your local retailer.

Universal Home Entertainment
Phone: 818-777-1000
E-mail: http://www.universalstudios.com/contact_form.php?email_id=10

!!Attention!!  !!Attention!!  !!Attention!!  !!Attention!!
Universal Studios Writes:
Thank you for contacting Universal Studios Home Entertainment. We strive to provide the highest standard in product quality and customer care.

Please let us know your shipping address and daytime telephone number, and we will send you a postage paid envelope in which to return your "Jet Li's Fearless Director's Cut" disc #1 for replacement. In the envelope, please send the original disc #1 only, along with a copy of this correspondence.

Please allow 1 - 4 weeks to receive your replacement.

We appreciate your patronage and hope that you will continue to enjoy this and future Universal releases.

Sincerely,

Consumer Relations
UNIVERSAL STUDIOS HOME ENTERTAINMENT