This is a film that had such an excellent concept that depending on how it was handled, it would either be mildly diverting or truly enthralling. With a concept like this, it could be anything from decent to excellent. But to figure out which, I had to see it for myself.

Van Helsing

Here's how it ranked...

Sound: 4/5

Don't get me wrong. The sound quality was good, and the music was good too, just not great. Movies like "The Mummy" for example, outrank it pretty easily in terms of soundtrack quality. The music helps to set the mood well, but isn't worth buying the soundtrack for.

Graphics: 5/5

Okay, the graphics were perfect, and unlike in X-men, you got the chance to see them for more than a few seconds at a time.

Story Concept: 5/5

The concept is truly top-knotch. It's the story of Van Helsing the monster hunter and how he discovers his destiny to fight with Count Dracula and his evil minions. There's more to it than that, but the rest serves only to make the story even better.

Story Presentation: 4.5/5

The story presentation was generally very good, but I felt that the basic humanity kind of wasn't in most of the characters. The other problem I had was the amount of times Dracula would walk on walls and ceilings. I know it was meant to be aesthetically-creepy, but it just came off as goofy.

Acting: 3.5/5

This is the movie's biggest failing. Van Helsing and Anna both got wonderful acting talents, but most of the rest of them were mediocre actors, except Dracula, who was a truly horrible and cheesy actor, constantly posing, flourishing and over-enunciating his lines as though in an opera. The reason this grade isn't lower is that I think they made the Dracula performance cheesy on purpose, to mirror the performances of Bella Legosi and the others. Still, kind of a disappointment.

All in All: 4.4/5

It's a better-than-average movie. I reccomend it if you're a fan of the old-school horror genre to which it is, as far as I can tell, a fitting tribute. I was particularly impressed by the fact that they used the book version of the Frankenstein creature, to add a sense of pity and tragedy to the whole thing. Some of the character interactions were golden, and a lot of the fight scenes are among the best I've ever seen. In particular, the fight at the end between Dracula and a werewolf would make the entire movie worth it, even if it totally stunk, which it doesn't.