This film is about Mohammed and early Islam. If you are not interested in this topic, I don't think you will like this movie. It is a film from the 70s, but has the feel of an early 60s film. Not everyone's taste.

If you want to learn more about Islam, I think this film is a great start. You do get an understanding of the society that Mohammed was revolting against and you learn some basic facts about his life. As an example, I now realise that the role of women was improved by Islam compared to pre-Islam times. So I don't think Mohammed tried to put down women. Off course, the situation today is different because the western society has given women many more rights. So today Islam does not seem very equal in my view. Another thing I learnt is how little of what Muslims believe today is clearly spelt out in the Koran, but instead is described in texts (hadith) written several hundred years after Mohammed's death.

The film is directed by a Muslim, but I don't think it is propaganda. It is in fact probably the best way to understand the appeal of Islam to many people of the region. The idea that race and status does not matter in the eyes of Allah is indeed a powerful idea. This becomes very clear in the film.

Some people here on amazon criticize the film because it doesn't show a balanced view of Mohammed. Without being an expert. I think this is valid criticism. Some areas not covered well are: The role of women in Islam. The way Mohammed's early followers gained resources. The relationship between Muslims and Christians/Jews. These are serious omissions if you want to understand Islam.

The director wanted to make a film so that audiences could better understand the positive sides of Islam. I don't know what to make of the irony that a Muslim suicide bomber killed the director and his daughter seemingly at random in 2005.

In conclusion, I think this is a five star film. Please play tribute to the director by buying the DVD.

If you want to understand current Islam, there is obviously a lot more to understand. Start with the film and the check the al-quran.info and you can see how some critical verses have been translated differently. Then check out wikipedia that has loads of material.