Based upon the glowing reviews read on this web-site I purchased the above movie and found myself wishing I had not.  First of all, I have never read Edith Wharton (I just haven't gotten around to it yet), so I was not sure what to expect.
I was hoping for a great period costume drama--well, Buccaneers is definately that; the costumes (and sets) were fabulous--but I was also looking for another great romance to put on my shelf.  Buccaneers was not it.
My major problems with the movie are as follows:

1. Sex, lust, adultry, infidelity: and lots of it. To an annoying degree. No character comes out unscathed whether directly or indirectly.
2. I was looking for Austen: she loves him, but doesn't know it; he's maddly in love with her, but engaged to someone else; etc. I ended up finding something quite different. Another review wrote: 'I don't think [The Buccaneers] was ever meant to be taken terribly seriously.' I disagree. Of course Edith Wharton would want her book taken seriously; from what I have read about her, she wanted to expose the underlying darkness, the faux pas, of society.  The movie (and, I am assuming, the book) was a commentary on how things do not always turn out like you think they will and nothing is how it appears on the surface.  Now, in general I do not mind this kind of 'hocus pocus', but in Buccaneers the underlying drama always has negative connotations. No one is truly happy and everybody is pretty miserable behind their veil of well-bred society and/or cheerfullness.
3. The ending (which I will not give away) felt strangley forced or contrived, perhaps due to the fact that Wharton died before finishing the the book (and so it was finished for her). The final scenes did not feel like a natural progression story, but only Wharton knows how it truly ended.

All in all I liked the acting, the sets, and the costumes, but I came out hating the choices all of the characters made. I kept yelling at the TV screen, "Why are you doing that!" and found no answer.
If you're looking for something 'Jane Austeny' with its sweet innocence and charm, don't buy this (purchase Wives and Daughters instead). If you like period dramas merely for their sets and costumes, then you'll like this. For me Buccaneers was too negative--a dismal out-look on life.