Firstly, I must say, I guess I'm one of those guys who "unfortunately needs to see Chun Li in her animated underwear." Secondly, I think one should not approach a movie about a bunch of gladiatorial cartoon characters looking for a complicated storyline. It's just cool. Just watch it---and appreciate it for what it is. Even if the roles were stretched kinda thin, the movie included most of the classic street fighters. Blanka, in particular, I liked. Sagat, Balrog and Vega were of course the hired thugs of M.Bison, each of them making notable appearances throughout.
I have many personal high points in the movie. The brawl between Ryu and Sagat is rock n' roll all the way. Sagat is like twelve feet tall, as wide as a bus. You get to see the dragon-punch that left Sagat with that big ugly scar, falling back on the background info behind the game.
The fight between Chun Li and Vega. Yes, she's in her underwear, and yes, it's cool. In that scene she uses virtually every one of her classic moves from the game. Vega slices her bathrobe to ribbons, and she ends up kicking him through a wall. 
Some of the Ryu and Ken flashbacks were cool, which inevitably dovetailed into the rivalry between the two friends. I liked it when they harnessed their power to thrash Bison; Bison was a motormouth that never shut up.
Guile was my favorite guy, and he sounded kinda like Ben Gazzara when he talked. There was an immediate sexual tension between Guile and Chun Li, and I was cheering him on all the way. And later in the movie, maybe Guile was defeated by a five-hundred pound Bison, but it didn't matter, because he made off with Chun Li in the end. Now that's what it's all about, stars and stripes, baby.
I think if you like the game you'll like the movie. It's just fun to watch. Yes, the story can be more-or-less mindless, so if you feel guilty afterwards, just read a book. I mean, come on, it is a cartoon we're talking about. If you have fun watching it, then it's served its purpose. So, for all of the Street Fighter fans out there, go for it. Two BIG thumbs up from me!