The DVD of George Roy Hill's "Hawaii" is long overdue. It tackles a subject that has always bothered me; that the good, well-intentioned fundamentalist Christians would invade native territory. Those simple natives never died of anything but age until the white man invaded their simple territory. The DVD is fine, with rich colors brought out of the magnificent panoramas (quite washed out on the VHS). An informative extra is about the making of the film, and you can compare the color restoration. That, and the theatrical trailer, are the only extras. A wonderful widescreen transfer gives justice to Russell Harlan's cinematography. "Hawaii" was nominated for 7 Oscars, and definitely should've won for Elmer Bernstein's great score. Cinematography, too (since it lost to "A Man For All Seasons", which was really just a filmed play.) Interesting was the nomination of Jocelyn Lagarde as Malama; she was certainly a strong character, and was quite good; she learned the whole script phonetically, since she knew no English. The acting was very good. Max von Sydow, fresh off his performance as Jesus in "The Greatest Story Ever Told"was solid. Julie Andrews was best of all, really carrying this film. Everyone forgets that her first film was "The Americanization of Emily", and it's later that she gave the candy-coated performances for which she's best known.She is really a stabilizing factor in the goings-on, and her discovery of this new, magic land is much more profound. There's a wonderful insight here, much overlooked. She also gets a very brief moment to sing, but the song is only minimally presented; still, "My Wishing Doll" was nominated for Best Song. (I remember Jackie de Shannon singing it at the Oscars back then). I'd like to hear the whole song sometime. Heather Menzies, who played one of the von Trapp children, has a small role as her little sister. A lot of things could be cut, but overall, this is a fine film. It has power and conviction, and Mischner approved.It's interesting to note that there's a spiritual touch to the beliefs of the native Hawaiians that belies the Christian ethic. When Malama (the Ali'i nui) dies, a terrific storm happens, as predicted, though von Sydow's character thinks it's just superstition. He is regularly taken over by these people, something that Jerusha (Andrews) knew all along. It is a fine film, and one that I'm glad to have in my collection.