Suggestion: watch the 'making of' with the director's comments first and then watch the movie. You'll see that the director (fuqua- from training day) was aiming (no pun intended) for: it's considerably more than just an action movie.
This movie is a sad indictment of the savagery and genocide that afflicts Africa and the extremes that some of these power hungry lunatics go. This is extreme terror close up for some of the people, especially in this little corner of Nigeria. 
A lot of poeple heard muslim in the movie's premise (since Nigeria's official religion is Islam- it's funny how islam has been perverted from a religion of peace and tolerance and equality from it's inception to what it is today in some places of the world...) and thought 'ah a rah-rah shoot-em up with revenge and muslim butt kicking in the mind'. But that doesn't wash- not even close (makes me wonder if the people who said that even understood what they were watching?? Or simple just transfering their prejudices and desires onto the movie and then trying to disavow them by denigrating the movie). Nor does it glorify the american military and cast it as the global policeman. That is such a simplistic analysis. Watch the bit in the clearing when the helicopters land and then leave and you'll see what I mean about the US military NOT being the unabashed, unreserved saviours of the good and the right. They do job they are told (very well!).
Willis, in hard faced mode- playing the role to perfection- contrary to orders, makes 'the mistake of starting to give a f--k' as his character puts it. And rather than leave a bunch of helpless civilians from a mission to the rebels chasing them, decides to escore them into nearby Cameroon primarily because the american civilian he and his navy seals are there to extarct refuses to go without them. And this is the crux of the movie: the chase (if the simplisitic viewpoint is to be accepted, then the Seals would stand and fight and kill all the badg uys and all live happily every after, basking in their glory as victors- whihc certainly doesn't happen...not even close)
There are times in the movie when you will wonder how so called human beings can do the things to each other that you are shown and are infered by what remains (this movie doesn't pull too many punches). The segement in the village is really, really tragic and grim and has zero glorification of violence and heroism, other than doing what needs to be done. Because doing nothing is complicity of the worst kind. Willis' character and his men aren't 'americans' or 'heroes' when they do what they do...rather just humans protecting humanity. Those who called this movie some sort of glorification of all things American: freedom, justice, liberty, etc. missed the point. This movie is about humans and those who aren't. And the fact that sometimes you have to make a stand, regardless of who you are or where you're from. There are no nationalities this close to the sharp end of ethinic cleansing, genocide and rape. The affront is just too great for that. 
I personally thought this was an excellent movie. The only downside: speachifying at the end got a bit nauseating, and detracts from the movie to some extent (-1 star). As does the actions of Tom Skeritt's character in the finale (just a bit too schmaltzy for my liking). Otherwise, this is a very good movie. There is no artistic posturing like The Thin Red Line, nor is it pure war like Saving Private Ryan, or confused mayhem like Black Hawk Down. Rather a fairly linear chase through the darkest side of humanity with a significant body count (nobody is spared), times of extreme violence and war, where nobody escapes unscathed and unchanged, if they escape at all. There are some extremely powerful moments in this movie: my favorite (no, that isn't the word), the most moving: the old man weeping outside the village. 
Excellent cast featuring Willis and Monica Bellucci (Persephone from the Matrix reloaded, revolutions) with the sultry eyes and sexy voice. And good supporting cast- the africans were played by refugees from the Sudan (another nightmare). 
ALl in all, a well made movie, a good story and a disturbing study of man's inhumanity to people, all in the name of greed and ideology, religion and powerlust. There is no glory. No flag waving. Plenty of heroism that is understated, but the tacit acceptance of this heroism by the SEALS is not played upon either. They simply do their job. This isn't 'die hard in the jungle'. This is far too much of a waking nightmare for that. This movie is about sacrifice, peril, loss, suffering and hope.