Made in 1956, "Carousel" seems to be the least popular of the Rogers and Hammerstein classics...and I don't know why. Maybe it's because the musical isn't all sugary sweet and innocent and could even be considered a tear-jerker. I've never understood why this movie gets criticized so much. True there are a few things about it that even I am uncomfortable with but it is not a bad film by any means.

The story of "Carousel" revolves around Julie Jordan (Shirley Jones), a factory girl who falls in love with carousel barker Billy Bigelow (Gordon MacRae). Billy is an arrogant womanizer who dislikes being wrong and struggles with his emotions. Julie is a sweet girl who wouldn't hurt a fly. They go together as well as chalk and cheese, but get married anyway. A while after their wedding, Julie tells Billy that she's having a baby and while Billy is thrilled to begin with, his joy turns to panic as he worries about how he will provide for his unborn child. Billy's worry, and a suggestion from his less than honest friend Jigger (Cameron Mitchell) lead Billy to make the worst decision of his life.

I think one thing people dislike about the movie version of "Carousel" is that the first half of the story is told in flashback like sequences and I agree with anyone who thinks that this doesn't help the movie. I feel it would've been better if they had done it like the stage version and not included the awkward style of flashback storytelling because it really doesn't help the pacing. There is also a ballet sequence that lasts for some time and it doesn't look so good on screen...the ballet scene is something I think would also look better on a stage, since the way the ballet is played out makes it seem like it was made for stage rather than screen. Then there is the issue that everyone's talked about; the subject of wife beating. To me, the message really does come across that it's okay to let a man hit you, and even for a movie that was made in 1956 it leaves me with a bitter taste in my mouth. I didn't mind that Billy and Julie's relationship was complicated and that they never told each other the words "I love you", or that Billy never showed Julie any real affection. I like grit and drama even in a musical. I didn't even mind a main character being killed in a sudden and violent way. It all adds to the story. Without these plot points "Carousel" wouldn't be what it is; unique and interesting.

The songs in "Carousel" are excellent. There's the remarkable "If I Loved You", the memorable "You'll Never Walk Alone", and the charming "When The Children Are Asleep". There is Billy's seven minute solo song, the outstanding "Soliloquy" which completely defines the kind of man Billy Bigelow is and allows the viewer to see right into the character's soul.

While parts of the movie can be depressing, the ending is happy and uplifting as a musical ending should generally be. Thanks to the breath-taking performances from a great cast, memorable songs, in-depth characters and a good story "Carousel" is one of my favourite musicals and I recommend everyone give it a fair try at least once.