The film presents an alternative, speculative history to the outcome of the Civil War:  What if the South had carried the day?  Fast forward to the present, and we are the privileged viewers of a British-made "documentary" about the ensuing course of events.  The results follow an insane logic that is stark, Swiftian and deeply, deeply disturbing.

Another reviewer has pointed out that the film is an amazing indictment of slavery, although it may not be convincing as a speculative history.  I wholeheartedly agree on this point.  Putting aside the film's plausibility or lack thereof, the viewer can be in no doubt about the film's views on slavery and racism.  I am very impressed by the audacity of the writers and film makers, to present an obviously divisive subject in such a bald-faced fashion, or to the inhuman ends it might lead.  Personally, I did not find the outcomes here implausible, if one is willing to follow the logic to its awful conclusion.  Rather, it convinced me further still that to look at people as objects in any way, shape or form will ultimately rob everyone of their humanity.

The film has obviously generated a lot of diverse feeling, as the spectrum of reviews on this site attest.  I personally did not find the film funny or amusing past the first 5 minutes.  Anything that might have been seen in a humorous light got swept under a wave of terrified nausea by the offensive, curious logic of the film's premise.  This is all to the film's credit, as shock value is the driving force here.  On the down side, the acting and production values are no better than a run-of-the-mill '70's TV show headed for cancellation.  Hence the 4 stars.

I did not get the impression that the film was necessarily a polemic against antebellum Southern culture, despite the obvious and unavoidable connections.  Rather, it comes off more as a tract against slavery and racism.  This is a message that is always welcome, considering the social problems we face throughout the world today.