Starring and directed by an Aussie, written by a yank, this is still a great Scottish movie. Why? Because it rings true. 
Some of the touches are just too convincing. Like the early scene where Wallace's father and some other Scottish warriors discuss whether to fight the English or not: Someone says they can't win, to which Wallace's father replies, "We don't have to win, just fight." To any Scotsman aware of his country's long struggle to define itself in the face of its much larger neighbor, this makes immediate sense. Scots may not always win, but they don't understand the concept of defeat either, and although England slavishly gave in to its Danish and French-Norman invaders, the Scots never surrendered even to continuous aggression from a neighbor over 20 times its size in population and immeasurably richer. Indeed, it was because the crack regiments of the British Army were recruited from such indominatable people as the Scots that the Empire could spread to so many parts of the World. 
Of course there are plenty of historical inaccuracies in the movie. There is no bridge at the Battle of Stirling Bridge. Setting fire to a damp, sodden Scottish battlefield would be a difficult proposition even with modern napalm. And Wallace certainly didn't destroy York. 
Perhaps the least inaccurate of the historical inaccuracies is the affair with the Princess of Wales. We know for a fact that the royal bloodline is notoriously unreliable and that not only Edward III but many kings were cuckolded by their wives. Anyway inaccuracies are permissible if they help the movie reach a higher plane of spiritual truth. Braveheart does this. With all its factual errors, it successfully conveys to a modern audience the spirit of the times much better than some pedantic and academic attempt at historical reconstruction. For this reason we can forgive much of its cod medievalism. The picture that emerges is that Wallace was a man of the people, a hero who fought against enormous odds, often opposed by Scotland's selfish nobles, a brilliant warrior and general who hated the invaders of his brave little nation and gave his life without even the thought of surrender. 
The battle scenes rock, with great special effects and editing, and the music score succeeds both in amplifying emotions and giving the movie a bouncy Celtic rhythm that carries it along. Mel can't help looking like a Hollywood superstar, but he is possessed by a demon spirit. Patrick McGoohan is suitably arrogant and evil as Edward Longshanks, while David O'Hara's crazed Irishman, is the central beam from which the movie's gallows humor is hung. This allows us to keep the right distance from the emotionally overwhelming events. 
Some people find the brutal execution scene at the end upsetting, and I can understand why. Director Mel Gibson pulls no punches in showing us medieval torture inflicted on his actor self - almost as if he hated himself a little! But this is also one of the key scenes in the film as Wallace's spirit of freedom starts to infect even the unworthy English rabble who have come to see him tortured and butchered.