2001's Ocean's Eleven was a witty and clever remake of the 1960s Frank Sinatra classic. It featured a classy and glamorous cast of popular Hollywood icons including George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Don Cheadle, Matt Damon and the lovely Julia Roberts. Directed by the talented Steven Soderbergh(Out of Sight, Erin Brockovich), it became a worldwide hit crime caper movie recognized for its sharp dialogue and flairing style. Three years later, in 2004, nearly the entire wonderful cast of the first installment return along with exuberant director Steven Soderbergh, who this time travel all through Europe in search of riches. Professional thief Danny Ocean(Clooney), and his filthy-rich team of brilliant experts, which includes Rusty Ryan played by a cool Brad Pitt, and Tess Ocean, Danny's wife who would rather stay in the shadows about the con business, here played by the gorgeous megastar Julia Roberts. This time,though, they' re not stealing for their own sake, as the slick thieves have been threatened by casino master Terry Benedict, who gives them a limited amount of time to recooperate the money they originally stole from him in the first film or he promises to take care of the team in a grisly and unpleasing manner. The stakes are set higher this time around, as the gang travels through Amsterdam, Rome, and Paris looking for a way to steal millions of dollars so they can live, and also encounter a rival and increasingly jealous sly con artist(Vincent Cassel) who is making their alreday skillful jobs a little more difficult. The backdrops and scenery are lush, fresh, and vibrant bringing life to an already colorful film. The performances are magnificent, thanks to undeniable star power that blends flavorful character opera with rich and detailed situations their characters are placed in, and there are some intriguing cameos to spice things up. There are some brisk although tense chase and action scenes to keep the pace lively. Overall a worthy sequel to a savvy and thrilling predecessor. An entertaining and juicy heist dramedy that features Catherine Zeta-Jones who is absolutely fabulous in her role as a cunning and beautiful international detective hot on the criminal mastermind's trail. Steven Soderbergh has a keen eye for kinetic direction, with eye-catching shots of European city streets, pitch-perfect editing, and an outrageously interesting screenplay that will keep you experiencing loads of fun. All these elements are combined to create a glorious caper movie that will satisfy artistic moviegoers, and has sheer quality and entertainment value that is utterly enjoyable. The only bonus feature on the DVD version will be the film's original theatrical trailer that sparked anticipation for a movie that deserved attention. The DVD edition will be available in seperate Fullscreen and Anamorpic Widescreen formats. Rated PG-13 for language and running approximately 125 minutes in length.