From the deep dark recesses of a high school comes the curse of Abel Frye...aptly portrayed in the opening scene and following scene of the  football team's quarterback melting away psychologically during the game.  Having not read the book I was not prejudiced with the novel's storyline beating around in my imagination...so I tried this movie out.

I found the cinematography and sound design to be very good with some highlights being the wide angle of the high school corridor in the evening when another "hangman" is being chiseled into a locker (excellent clarity and lighting), plus the industrial rock entrance of the goths coming through a doorway at school (slow-motion with full sound).  The look and feel of the curse of Abel Frye was effective enough and not cheesy......BUT there were some mixed attempts at acting with the absolute low-point being the classroom scene where Elisha is challenging the teacher on his double-standards and hypocrisy ( which I think all too often reflects teachers these days ) but her mixing in of "hip" words and slang sounded, ohhhhhhhhhhh..."snap"..."my bad"...I'm trying to really give the benefit of the doubt on this.....nope, it was one of the worse scenes of acting and writing I've seen in movies, let alone a "Teen Thriller". It seemed that the writers were trying way too hard to sound cool, plus where was the director in terms of the quality of acting.  A "horrorible" scene.

On the other hand the scenes with the older actors and veterans, i.e. with the parents and the principal, as well as the scene [SPOILER AHEAD]where Elisha had fallen down the shaft, broken her leg and was being  tortured by psycho-dude and bitten by his throng of spiders brought more tension and creepiness to the plot.

I would probably enjoy Peretti's book more, even though this adaptation was fairly entertaining (like his acting, a bit over the top, but still engaging).  Not a B-movie, but not an A-grade, either.  I wouldn't buy it new....and in fact I didn't (about 3 and 1/2 dollars, used).