I have to admit I was never a big Spike Lee fan before I saw When The Levees Broke.  I was in New Orleans before, during, and after Katrina.  I was one of the lucky ones that was on "higher ground" during the 4 days of hell I was trapped in the city.  Four days with no water, electricity, 100 degree heat, complete darkness at night (all you heard were helicopters and occasional gunshots), and fear for my safety (I was a single woman alone in my apartment).  Luckily, I lived above a grocery store that was broken into, or I wouldn't have had food either.  In those 4 days, I didn't see one police officer, one rescue worker, or any kind of help.  I finally left the city with neighbors, fearing that I would not get out because a neighbor the day before (a middle class white woman) was turned back at gunpoint when she and her husband tried to drive over the bridge that was the only way out of this city.  We made it to Houston, and I managed to get a flight out, not knowing if I'd ever see "my city" again.  Six weeks later, I returned, only to find myself illegally evicted by landlord and ALL of my possessions gone.
  On the year anniversary of Katrina, my boyfriend and I decided to watch "When the Levees Broke".  I sat there, completely entranced as I saw the news footage and all the devastation and horrible things that were happening around me.  I still can't believe how little help New Orleans received.  Two and a half years later, this city is STILL affected.  You see it everywhere--streets full of houses with "For Sale" signs out front, people still living in FEMA trailers, people missing family members that left after Katrina and never came back.  There is a fog of depression that still hangs over New Orleans and it's not the same city it was before Katrina.  A lot of locals think the country has forgotten about us.
  I commend Spike Lee (as well as Brad Pitt and Sean Penn) for showing the world that New Orleans still needs help and Katrina should not be forgotten.  It's people like that who give me and others here hope.
  We have made it an annual tradition in our house to watch "When The Levees Broke" every year on August 29th.  I look forward to the day when those memories are blurry and distant, and New Orleans is the happy, exciting, fun, laid-back city it once was and hopefully can be again.
Review by Michele, not Joshua :)