The movie was basically a stab in the back to Tim Burton, Batman TAS, and any other Batman forum. This movie tried to lighten Batman up rather than keep him the dark mysterious hero that haunts villains in the night. Nipples on the batsuit were a completely idiotic idea that the person who thought that was a great plan of action should take a punch in the face from us loyal Bat fans. Arnold even though I like him and all was in absolutely no condition to play Mr.Freeze following his heart surgery. They tried to make Freeze cool like Batman TAS did but didn't quite follow through with it. At least it wasn't as bad as the Freeze's on Adam West's Batman show. I do believe too many characters were introduced which watered this film down. Freeze, Poison Ivy, Bane, Batgirl, and I guess you can include Bruce's squeeze, too and maybe Nora should also be included. Tough to follow everybody's origin and have time to process it. Bane in the comics and in the cartoon is very vicious and strikes fear in anyone he faces with the exception of Batman. This Bane is clumsy and doesn't seem the least bit invincible or could damage the Bat in any way like he did in the comic Broken Bat. Poison Ivy was ok. Probably could have been better if there wasn't so many people involved in this movie. Michael Gough plays an awesome Alfred Pennyworth. He did wonderfully in all 4 Batman flicks. Never been much of a fan of Chris O'Donnell so I never saw him as an ideal Robin. Robin to me is a person who is just as important to Batman and vice versa. Sure Batman is a loner but he really needs Robin or he wouldn't let him hang around with him when he fights crime. There also a trust that the two share. Here it is more a father trying to protect his son from harm kind of thing. Not really the trust or the Batman & Robin relationship I had in mind. Next we have good ol' Batgirl. Barbara Gordon...oops my bad her is actually Barbara Wilson, huh? This is about as bad as Catwoman not being Selina Kyle but Patience Phillips in the Halle Berry movie. So instead of being Commisioner Gordon's daughter she is Alfred's niece. She believes that Alfred is pretty much a slave to Bruce and believes he deserves better, forgetting that Pennyworth was a second father to Bruce and is basically the one who raised the Billionare. Alicia doesn't do quite as bad as I thought she would so I will give her that. Which brings us to Batman. George Clooney as good an actor as he is is not dark enough to be Batman. He tries to Mickey Mouse Batman and make him a silly little Cartoon instead of a hero to be feared by all even though he has no super powers. His line to Freeze when he has been beaten, "Will you help us doctor?" almost made me wanna puke. Batman asking someone to help him even to help save Alfred is preposterious. O well this movie blew in my mind and would have been an undeserved nail in the coffin of this series if it were not for Batman: Begins that looks pretty good. 1 star and I am being nice by giving this movie that.