Wow!!... That was awesome!!.... Definitely the best exorcism movie we had since THE EXORCIST!!
If you liked the exorcist then you should get this one too!!... for sure!!!...

Directed and Written by Scott Derrickson, this little flick should keep you on the edge of your seat until the very end!!!... It is a true story about the exorcism of  Anneliese Michel, a simple girl who manage to be possessed by the mosts feared and crual demons known  in the Christian Mythology, CAIN, NERO, LEGION, BELIAL and even LUCIFER himself and JUDAS ISCARIOT!!!!....

The movie mostly focus on lawyer Erin Bruner who's trying to defend father Richard Moore who is accused of killing the young Anneliese (Emily Rose) after performing an exorcism to try to save her. The movie is in most part about the trial itself and what happened to Emily before and after being possessed.

The trial itself i think was the only negative comment i had about the movie before seeing it. People were saying that it was mostly good but that there was too much trial and court scenes.

Personally, it didn't bother me at all...In fact, those "trial" scenes are probably the ONLY break that you will have before it goes back to Emily and her demons again!!!...Trust me!!.....After the first "possession" scenes you will wish the movie goes back to the trial and court part so that you can relax a little bit......

It is when they play the actual "tape" (audio recording) of the final exorcism that the movie reaches its peak!!!...the movie goes back to Emily and you can see and live that lasts moments that the people in court can only hear on the audio tape.....

Besides all the horror and demons and possession scenes in  here, the movie also delivers a strong message of hope and faith for people of all kinds.

For people that might be interested, Amazon actually have a DVD of the REAL TAPES!!!!!, Its call : ANNALIESE : THE EXORCISTS TAPES....give it a try if you dare!!!!!  5 stars well earned for a real scary movie!!!!!!..so buckle your seat belts and don't forget your oxygen masks folks!!!!!.. Hahaha...lol....

ENJOY!!!!!