When Sex and the City first came on the airwaves in America, I was a young woman of 21. I loved the show because it presented `successful,' educated women in a situation in which they were allowed to talk about sex (without being downgraded to typical whore/virgins constructions of their sexuality,) and it seemed to promote feminist viewpoints of equality for women. Of course, the show was not revolutionary; many have criticized the classed, white New York it portrays -- where the only faces of ethnicity were the waitstaff at the uber-posh restaurants that the ladies frequented.

However, the women had complicated personal lives, and they didn't seem to "need" men. The show was witty and gritty, and it explored being single in one's 30's in a culture celebrates coupledom and shuns older singles. The writing itself was clever and employed subtle double entendre as their friendships and sexual relationships were explored. Fast forward 12 years, and to quote this latest monstrosity of a film, "O how the mighty have fallen."

Thoroughly disappointed at a the 2 hour long shoe-and-handbag-advertisement called Sex and the City 1, I vowed there would be no further patronage from me. Alas, a fundraiser for a local mothers/children organisation tugged at my guilt, and I forked out the $20 to go see Sex and the City 2 to support this organisation.  I was secretly looking forward to how cringe-inducing I intuited it would be. Self-directed schadenfreude perhaps?

Cons:

The classism was just oozing off the screen.  What really affected me however was the IRONY. Here were the 4 main characters in Abu Dhabi, feeling pity for the poor veiled Arabic women, spouting aphorisms on the oppressiveness of these "religious arab men," and the womens' "lack of voice."  They criticize the entire culture for domineering women, and being "afraid" of sex. YET, the ladies characters have a religious oppressor  of their own.  From their garish facepaint, and  the brutality of their version of Chinese-foot-binding (strutting around in 8 inch Christian LeBoutin heels,) to the carnivalesque-thousand- dollar dresses, the women of SATC are just as religious and dogmatic as those they are critiquing. Their language and ritual is not of a prayer to Mecca, but a worship of the cocktail, the shoe, the shopping, and a narcissistic self-involvement.

The writing was just ATROCIOUS. Gone was the subtlety of the clever double-entrendres used when the show first aired.  The actresses didn't even seem to BELIEVE their lines, which is fair enough. How could any comedic timing  and believability possibly be appropriated for such clich&eacute;d and clunky lines as "mid-wife crisis, " "Inter-friend-tion?"  At one point Samantha meets a man named  Ricardo Spurtz. "Ricardo is Danish for Richard," he explains.  Oh,  Samantha asks "so your name is Dick Spurtz?" Dick replies to Samantha, "could you be any more American?" And that, my friends, was THE ONLY reflexive moment of the film.

And like Samantha, the film did not feel like it could possibly be any more American, it stunk of an American Pie meets I Dream of Jeannie meets Sorority Girls go on National Lampoons Middle Eastern vacation.  It was JUST SO PAINFUL --So clunky, so groan-inducing, and so  incredibly condesecending to Abu Dhabians. At one point Carrie buys shoes from a local cobbler and patronises him with treatment only a very cute puppy should receive. At best the orientalised world of the Arab in SATC's version of Abu Dhabi is patronising and rude, but at worst, its incredibly racist and demeaning.

One final note, I could not find ANY redeeming quality to this film, and believe me, I wanted to.  Perhaps one moment, the character Miranda in discussing motherhood was close to some sort of "moment," but even that fell flat due to the appalling writing. Despite the 4 women Karaoke version of I am Woman, the film is actually deeply misogynistic. The characters have been reduced to these garish caricatures of consumerism, soulless and loveless, racistly proclaiming their superiority. They are ever-dependent on the men they once claimed they did not need. And sadly, any feminist benefit the show might have initially had, the films have now nullified.  Any integrity to the foundation of the Sex and the City story has now been burnt down to a barely noticeable skeleton. Gone are the moments, the deep questions and sexual conundrums of the show and all that is left is  the  religious fervour of  these walking fashion advertisements bowing down to their narcissism, racism and misogyny, to slip on a pair of $5000 stilletos, cosmo in hand and go walking in the desert.

Oh indeed, the mighty have fallen.