Ok, OI agree, there are some parts of Happy Feet that are not, well, HAPPY... BUT - THIS IS A CARTOON PEOPLE!! I THINK we all know that penguins can NOT tap dance, nor do they speak like we do (WHY do you think they show Mumble SPEAKING to the humans from the tank (right after he's caught) so WE at HOME can understand him, but CLARIFY it to show how he actually souds to the humans in the movie? There ARE some inconsistancies & some vague (NOT offensive!)adult humor moments (ie - the rewording of Prince's "KISS" for example) - but isn't that what makes watching this with our children just a BIT more fun for us as adults?
Speaking as a single mom of 4 - a 16 y/o daughter, a 13 y/o son & Autistic 3/o twins - THEY ALL LOVE IT (& so do I for that matter!) We can watch this OVER & OVER!! I'm trying to get my hands on a new copy of this & FINDING NEMO - another AWESOME "kid's" movie because all the kids have watched this so often that the disc is finally starting to show some wear & "skippage".. In fact, this was an Easter gift when the DVD was 1st released - NOT for my wee ones - BUT FOR MY OLDEST!! The animation in this movie is aamzin & it entrances my twins.. The songs & MOST of the dialog are easy enough that even my twin that CAN'T really speak has tried to emulate what he's hearing - my OTHER twin can recite this word for word.. If you are SO worried about the "message" that the movie is sending - TALK to you child/ren... Most of them understand the subtleties better than you think... PLUS - if THIS is so offensive - What about all the Old Disney movies (Sleeping Beauty? Snow White? - I know Fantasia scared ME silly when I was a kid...) Or the old Fables & fairy tales we tell our kids (Hansel & Gretel anyone?) - They ALL had some sort of "message" to relay - but most were scarrier than all get out...
Get over it people - this movie DESERVES all the accolades & awards it won... It was fun, well thought out, well put together & I would rather something like this than most of the other "stuff" out now (Pokemon? Bratz?)
Relax, enjoy & get those panties out of a bunch - it's just a PENGUIN movie... :)