This movie released less than five years after the attacks on September 11th, 2001, may very well go down in film history as one of the most contraversial movies ever created. Some moviegoers will be able to endure it, most will probably steer clear of it. Though it is given a subtle, yet cinematic atmosphere to it, it will still no doubt reawaken past memories of the event as it happened. Where in an action flick, we would be shown the planes crashing into the towers, here Stone wisely shows us a shadow of the plane on a building, and then a rumbling in the distance. The viewer doesn't need to be shown exactly what happened, for the viewer will never forget how it all unfolded that Tuesday morning in September.

The acting in uniformally strong in this movie, although the loved ones of policemen burried in the rubble give the most powerful ones. If the acting wasn't strong, this movie would no doubt lose it's impact. Throughout the proceedings we are always at eye level with the men and women involved, we are two steps behind their every move, so naturally the audience would have to form some kind of connection with them. And for the most part the audience does. Asides from certain scenes where it just feels Stone is milking the emotional tragedy bone-dry, we go through everything Nicholas Cage and his fellow policemen go through, and the loved ones they leave terrified that their husbands won't be returning.

The cinematography, sound, and lighting all are strong points as well in this film. From the moment the police officers step foot outside the bus that has transported them to the towers, we feel like we are actually there. The shots of the tower from street level with degree falling and smoke rising really puts the viewer in perspective of what these brave souls are dealing with. And in the concourse sequence, the thunderous noises from high above that come without warning add to the effect. The naturalistic lighting also adds to the lifelike atmosphere incredibly.

This movie is definitely not for everyone, some will argue that it has arrived too soon after the events almost five years ago, and some will simply not be able to stomach the thought of being put into the shoes of the few experienced it firsthand and survived. However it is no doubt an important movie, like United 93, and it serves as a constant reminder to society of what we are capable of, be it self-destruction, or be it bravery and courage and what good we are capable of.