Soylent Green is one of those films that, as soon as I saw it, I wondered where had it been all my life?  I though it was great, and made a point of telling all my friends about it.
It's based on Harry Harrison's book "Make Room, Make Room!", which is itself half story/half documentary about over-population and environmental damage.  The film uses the environmental disaster the world has become, and the resultant starvation, as a kind of backdrop, while the main story, it seems, is simply about a murder being investigated by Charlton Heston.  
The film very cleverly shows you all the realities of living in that bleak world by the way Heston brilliantly takes all sorts of terrible situations totally in his stride. As he leaves his apartment, he has to step over people sleeping on the steps; the air outside is murky and has a faint green glow;  even though he's a detective, he sometimes has to get involved in food riot control and only has a helmet for protection;  he has to recharge his apartment's batteries using a bicycle; his watch keeps breaking, but no-one is making new ones anymore.  Similar small touches abound throughout the film, and taken together have a deep impact on you as you think about them after the film.
Edward G. Robinson, in his last performance, plays Heston's partner, whose speciality is information and where to get it.  He's an old man, and, finally, despair at the state of the world gets to him.  His ultimate fate, the murder that Heston is investigating, and the environmental hell all around them, are all brought together right at the end, in a gripping finale.  As the horrible truth dawns upon Heston, he cries out the answer:  a four word phrase that encapsulates the horror of the world all about them.  A fabulous ending that really sends a chill up your spine.
This film features fine performances from two great actors, has good action, a fast pace, and really makes you think about the important issues at the core of the film.  This truly is an excellent film.