It is always a shock when top-flight actors like Russell Crowe get caught in messes like this. I can only imagine the pre-production ideas that must have surrounded this turkey. Crowe plays a kind of (?) retired cop who has a comatose wife that plays absolutely no part in the movie, but is tossed in there anyway to show...  What? Why? There is also a queer notion that the murdering youth's church is solidly behind him, and he continually prays before eating, yet this point is also never developed. When the kid yells "you have no right to detain me!" to Crowe, we have to agree with him but this part of the movie (why someone not on the force has these arbitrary powers...?) is never explored either.

When the girl and the guy are driving down the freeway, and the next shot is they are in a totally removed abandoned trailer because the girl "has to use the bathroom," we have to wonder if the production people need more or less drugs to remind them of something called 'continuity.' To make matters worse, Crowe shows up two minutes behind them, when he wasnt even tailing them! Altho he's only twenty yards from two cars, Russell's character cannot hear them drive away either. It's these kinds of sophomoric and egotistical director's choices that make this movie a total clunker.
 Altho we are led to believe the main character's killing of a young girl years before was discovered by his mother and that's why he killed both his parents, this thread is left dangling to an audience that quickly thinks "who cares?" The female star is so vapid and annoying that one is hoping the killer will soon dispose of her, but he is also so uninteresting and confused that we wonder where this film is going rather quickly.
The main girl looking to get murdered by this tentative, newly released killer of his parents is also poorly drawn, with some examples of decadence, but for her kinda (?) rape we rely on hearsay.The production never really decides what it is about. If it's supposed to be a girl looking to be a "prey" then it's rather poorly written from that point as well.
The fact that the killer doesn't want her to die at the end is also rather non-sequiter as he was ready to kill her earlier. There is simply no "juice" in the film that makes you care whether the killer wanted to murder her or not; or deserves to go back to jail for doing so.