A few years ago I went to the 25th Anniversary screening of one of my all time favorite movies 9 To 5. It was held at the Egyptian Theater and it was loaded with a bunch of gay boys and gals reciting lines! It was one of the most surreal movie experiences I've encountered. When I was but a wee boy, Cinemax ran 9 To 5 nonstop and I swear I must've watched the movie every single time it aired.

Classic lines and scenarios abound in this rather topical comedy -

"I'm a murderer"
"No, you're not."
"I'm a murderess."

"They're going to fire me for this."
"Don't get hysterical Violet."
"I'm no fool, I killed the boss you think they're not going to fire me for a thing like that?"

"I've got a gun out there in my purse and up to this time I've been forgiving and forgetting, but I"ll get that gun and turn you from a rooster to a hen in one shot!"

And the road rage as the three travel down the dark LA streets with a corpse in the trunk of their big blue Buick! Oh, classic stuff!

At the time of the theatrical presentation, they showed bloopers and gag reels, a retrospective on director/writer Collin Higgins and had one of the co-writers present to talk about. One question that was brought up was whether Fox would make a new DVD version to celebrate the 25th anniversary. The writer, Patricia Resnick thought Fox wasn't even aware it was the 25th anniversary of the film, but lo and behold we get the Sexist, Egotistical, Lying, Hypocritical Bigot Version has been released!

I ran out to Tower the minute it came out so I could get my hands on my own copy. As I walked into Tower on Sunset Boulevard, those boys were playing the movie and reciting every line! It was once again a very surreal moment. Imagine a group of rather punk rock looking boys reciting feminist lines by the likes of Dolly Parton & Lily Tomlin - I love this place!

So now I tell you - run out and buy your own copy! The DVD contains commentary by all three of the leading ladies, and the co-producer. Plus the retrospective I talked about, some bloopers and a karoke version of "9 To 5" so we can all sing along to the theme song! Welcome back 1980 how I missed you!