Despite what other reviewers have mislabeled as "J-Horror," this movie is anything but. It's a great downfall of American audiences to call anything "not as good as the Ring," just because it was directed by other asians. Other asians who, surprise, are NOT, in fact, JAPANESE.

That being said, this film definitely delivers something that American "horror" has been lacking. And that is a believable family dynamic and no pointless soundtrack by Linkin Park. The orchestral soundtrack was, eh, okay, but communicates in spades what typical American horror soundtracks typically don't (does the term "suspense" ring sentiment in anyone's heart any longer?).

That being said, the movie was not the most superb movie. But it was a fresh breath of air. Kristen Stewart most definitely pulls the performance, while the twins Evan and Theo Turner seem to compete at "playing" an unexpressive little boy named Ben. Dylan McDermott is a convincing Dad, not overacting, and definitely not always following a glamorized father role. The weakest link is is Penelope Ann Miller's Denise, who the audience all wishes to die for the whole entire movie.

What sets this movie apart from other recent horrors (the remake of "The Hills Have Eyes," "Final Destination", etc.), is that for the first time we have a strong female lead that doesn't revolve around gossiping on the phone and having sex with the ugliest brute of a male character first visible. Stewart convinces us that she is more than a moody teenager, and breathes into a character that has been played over in over in other movies as one we're not typically lead to care about.

What wins me over to this movie is the combination of sound track with sound effects and character development. To put it clearly, this movie has it. That's definitely an improvement on modern American Horror. This movie doesn't have a typical randomly motivated slasher character, nor does it have completely irrationally angry spirits. Improvement #2. This movie doesn't portray super caricatures of angsty college students: check and check. The eerie effects and stark contrast of daytime with creeping spirits is also nice, because it shows a director who isn't afraid to bring his monsters into the light (or maybe it's because they actually designed a costume that doesn't only show in the shadows like other directors seem to enjoy cutting expense corners on).

The long and short of it is that this isn't the best movie ever made, but it's pretty much better than any of the other crap we've seen in the past ten years. I hope this is an omen of the future.

And for trivia fans, this movie's producers are indeed obviously Silent Hill enthusiasts: they made an homage to the 4th game in having a spirit bear itself from the wall after water damage appears, they name one of the original owners of the house, "Mary", they use similar ambient sounds, the song played in the last scene of the movie bears eerie resemblance to the song played toward the end of Silent Hill 2, and most significantly, they borrowed Jodelle Ferland (who played "Sharon" in the Silent Hill movie) from the actual Silent Hill cast to cameo as a little boy.

This movie is worth seeing.