It's hard to believe that no one has commented on this immortal film yet! Am I missing something? Did everyone comment on an earlier dvd version!? Anyways...Onto my thoughts and observations.

Like my title states, (and I believe many would agree), this is indeed the most important film ever made in the western genre. In 1939, with the release of this film, John Ford and his cast changed the course of the western film and forever established credibility within the genre. In a time when the Hollywood western was never considered by critics or the general public as a serious and mature genre, when it was a genre of cartoonish B-movies, serials, and cowboy "shoot 'em ups," it was a risk for Ford to try to encapsulate his brand of social commentary and character development into the film. What was more of a risk was casting the unknown B-movie veteran John Wayne in the lead, a move which made it difficult for Ford to find financial backing for his movie. But what a movie it is! It gave us an actor in Wayne that would come to be a living, breathing icon of Americana, and it gave us a genre that would continue to shape and define a part of American mythology: the myth of the West.

The film's seemingly simple structure, that of a stage with passangers of various social backgrounds and temperaments, actually allows for Ford to analysis and critique various aspects of social and community structures, roles, value, and worth, all within the context of an exciting tale of romance, danger, and revenge. Each character has an initial place in the social standing. The characters of Lucy (Louise Platt) and Gatewood (Berton Churchill), for example, occupy high positions in their society as distinguished citizens. John Wayne's fugitive character, the Ringo Kid, and the characters of Dallas (Claire Trevor) and the drunken Doc Boone (Thomas Mitchell, who won an oscar), possess low social status and are looked down upon by the characters of higher status. As the story develops, however, the concept of role reversal takes shape as these three characters prove their value and worth in the role or the skill that each is able to use to help other characters, particularly those of the higher social status. Ringo fulfills the role of a fighter, Dallas as a nurturing maternal presence for the laboring Lucy, and Boone as a doctor, and each is then valued higher as the social structure becomes a functioning community.

All of this is so well conceived visually by the brilliant direction of Ford, and by the equally superb work of the ensemble cast, that it flow with a clinical precision and maintains a unity of tone throughout. It reaches for and so effortlessly achieves a thematic complexity, exploring human interactions (both good and bad), social roles, and community achievement, while always maintaing a sense of conflict, imminent danger, suspense, and, above all else, entertainment. Set against the magnificent backdrop of Monument Valley, which would become Ford's cinematic legacy, the film is given both an epic scope and a sense of poetic and mythic adventure. It is one for the ages, indeed! And it was just the beginning of what the legendary duo of Ford & Wayne would achieve together....