Soderbergh is laughing--alone. The reviews here are ironically revelatory and you see the usual menu, right out of Oprah: "communication," "love," go down the list.

In point of fact, everyone here is developing a "brand." If they can get off en route, fine. If not, fine. This is what you produce in lieu of, if possible--in adjunct to, if necessary--a product or a service. Turn on CNBC and you will hear the same mantra.

The service is now an afterthought. Note carefully the escort's comments on the clothes she is wearing, where she and her client met, dined, rutted, the statistical data she records in her nearly charming trailer-trash account of her service. Trailer trash she may be--and you hear the jumped-up journalist do his schtick before he, too, hits on her--but she is merely a sad downmarket echo of the CNBC zeitgeist.

Observe the boyfriend, if that's what he is: also developing his own brand, working on the marketing, whether himself or his (unidentified, meaningless) product. The "couple's" efforts to develop their respective brands is the subject of calm, deliberate conversation, so long as she plays by the surreal new rules in service to the marketing. These new rules are mesmerizing.

Note the tenor of all conversation. New age analytical. It is all commercial or "political." Any distinction is elusive.

The economy has crashed. It is in excellent company here.

The service itself? An afterthought. Every time--if it comes off at all. After the consumption is consummated and the marketing misery discussed--and this is the ultimate intimacy--here was the chance to address/undress the reality. The escort is post-content, soundbite tabula rasa, semi-adept at being whatever our post-capitalist clientele would like her to be at the personal/commercial level. Aided and abetted every step of the way. Casting a porn star was an act of genius.

Both efforts at a way out, that of the escort, that of her roommate: doomed. No exit. This is a cul-de-sac. Some games you play and you will get burnt. A brand, after all, is still a brand.

Sad to say, JG Ballard did not live to see this. Would he have laughed or cried? We don't know. But he would have known exactly what he was looking at.

Realist masterpiece. Sad to say.