Last week My DVD copy of "Jin-Roh" finally arrived.  I haven't been this blown away with an anime since i finished "Escaflowne."  
I don't know if i can really classify this as an Anime. I actually have it shelved in my films section of dvds.  "Jin-roh" takes place in a fictitious post world war II japan, somewhere in the 1950's.  Consistant cival revolts have prompted the govt. to organize a specialized mobile police that fiercly resembles the S.S. & Panzers of Nazi Germany.  This is deliberatly done so much to point that all the weapons (excessivly degailed), helmuts, and much of their gear is very much nazi army.

Our main character, "Fuse" (foo-say) is a member of the Special Division of the moblile police, which has recently come under controversy due to a break of discibline in the ranks when Fuse is confronted by a young girl in a red hood, carrying a bomb for her terrorist group.
Jin-roh has an excellent set of characters, and is exceptionally well directed and informative for a feature length film.  Jin-roh really plays an obvious parallel to the childrens' story, "Little Red Riding Hood."  They use the German title, "Rotkappchen," which litterally translates to Red little hood.

The first thing you will notice while watching Jin-Roh is how unlike it is to any anime.  The characters are drawn to look VERY japanese.  No big eyes and clown smiles; The characters in Jin-Roh have black hair, fair skin, and small eyes.  Produced by the same team that put together "Akira," and "Ghost in the shell," (neither of which i am a tremendous fan of)' "Jin-Roh" is Exceptionally detailed, from the characters... but especially the backgrounds.  So vidid with detail, but not necessarily bright colors.  Jin-Roh isn't a standard Anime filled with humor.  In fact, I can't remember laughing one time during my first or second viewing of this film.

This film is so clever; it has an ending and a twist that would remind you of an american film like "Memento," "Unbreakable," ..."Fight club" even.
Upon watching the movie a second time, i found myself immediatly recognizing things at the beggining of the film that allude to circumstances revealed later.  
"Jin-roh" is not for the sensitive viewer.  This is a very violent film; however, this is not an action based movie.  Excellent Music, and fantastic voice Acting - Jin-Roh, is a heavy drama, and exactly what i have been looking for in an Anime since i started this hobby two or three years ago.
In Conclusion, Jin Roh is a Truley engrossing masterpiece of an Anime Film that could satisfy even the most cynical of movie fans.
WOW!!