It goes to show how blind some moviegoers are in their lament that last year was an awful year for movies. In my humble opinion, last year was one of the best for movies, seeing as it was one where traditional blockbusters failed to deliver and audiences were called upon to find a bit more originality and ingenuity in their visits to the multiplex. The indie circuit produced a fine line of great cult classics including, to name a few, "Memento", "Donnie Darko", "L.I.E.", "Hedwig & The Angry Inch", "In The Bedroom"; but stealing their thunder is this beautiful, powerfully performed film, that really undeservedly missed out on the Oscar race last year.
The one film I can remember feeling like as I was watching Marc Forster's sophomore effort was Tom Tykwer's third film, "The Princess & The Warrior", another of 2001's criminally ignored gems. Milo Addica and Will Rokos' Oscar nominated script (which, to their credit, weaved its way through Hollywood for years and never succumbed to that old debacle, 'script doctoring') works with characters as opposed to an iron-clad plotline, and, along with Forster's deft direction, makes the film feel like a giant wave as one event follows another in an amazing emotional rollercoaster. This is a film that commands the audience's attention and calls for them to soak in every detail emblazoned on the screen, all at a leisurely pace which some will find irritating and others intoxicating ... Forster, a Swedish-born filmmaker who studied in New York, is more than ably assisted by his cast and crew, from Roberto Schaefer's gorgeously bleached photography to the ethereal score, both of which complement the heavy, Deep Southern atmosphere.
And the cast duly deliver the kind of performances that are all too rare in many movies. 2001 will be remembered as Billy Bob Thornton's year in how he flitted from mild-mannered barber in the Coens' "The Man Who Wasn't There" to a phobia-ridden bankrobber in Barry Levinson's "Bandits" to this acutely subtle portrayal of a man searching for an emotional connection and break away from his suffocating family. And Halle Berry is his perfect match, leaving her inhibitions and her diva-style aloofness (as displayed in blockbusters "X-Men" and "Swordfish") at the door for an animalistic manifestation of a woman at the end of her emotional tether (I bought this DVD based solely on her Oscar clip). Of the supporting players, Heath Ledger, in a surprisingly short role, gives the audience something a lot more substantial and interesting than his "10 Things I Hate About You" performance gave cause for us to suspect, and Mos Def is equally good as the only genuinely fatherly father in the entire film. And Peter Boyle ... the fact that he didn't win the Oscar is heartbreaking enough for how concentratedly vile, creepy and good his performance is. Fans of his "X-Files" episode, where he played a superbly affable medium, will be shaken to the core.
Addica and Rokos' screenplay also, after hitting its characters and the audience with an enormous mounting of tension, has the audacity to end on an ambiguous, almost spiritual high that many have argued as lacking and infuriating. To be honest, the resolution in the characters' faces spoke volumes for me and, whatever happened afterwards, the newfound inner peace and the casting out of the past is what the film is celebrating. For me, "Monster's Ball" could have gained a few more nominations come Oscar time (film, director, actor, supporting actor, photography, score), but what remains is a rugged Southern diamond that will stand the test of time and prevail as a modern classic. The DVD, meanwhile, includes two witty and insightful audio commentaries by Forster (one with Shaefer and the other with Berry and Thornton), but the best feature is the outtake where Berry and Thornton, amid joking and giggling, seamlessly become Leticia and Hank infront of our eyes ... spellbinding.