This review assumes you are familiar with the 1956 Donald Siegel film.  You are reading these viewpoints of the blu ray title to ascertain whether you should spend more money for yet another version of "The Invasion of the Body Snatchers".  The short answer is YES, in my opinion.  I believe the increased image quality will add to your enjoyment of the film no matter how many times you have previously seen it.  I have been fascinated by the '56 version of this Jack Finney story since I saw "Invasion of the Body Snatchers" on the KNXT (Los Angeles, now KCBS)in the 60s. When VCRs made it possible, I taped the movie for my permanent collection.  When it became economically feasible (VHS commerical copies were sold to mostly rental stores when the format first reached the general public and the video tapes ran up to $75 in 1980s money), I bought the VHS copy.  I relished being able to get a higher resolution "Snatchers" and plunked down about $20 for the Republic DVD, released about 10 years ? ago. I have Amazon Prime so I streamed, using my Roku player, the HD version Amazon made available this year, to check out the quality of of the higher resolution picture.  I was impressed with the streaming version. I STILL decided to purchase the blu ray and I am glad I did.  1080P makes the lighting and framing of scenes much more a part of the overall experience.

Obviously, I think this little "b" movie is a wonderful film.  I approach every viewing of "Snatchers" with the idea that I will see it for what most sane people think it is....a little time waster from the 50s, well made but still insignificant. However, I always become involved. This movie grabs me by the throat and never let's me relax.  The "older" me thinks the reason I continue to be impressed by the film is the cast.  I believe every one of the actors "bought in", from Kevin McCarthy and Dana Wynter, from King Donovan and Carolyn Jones, to Whit Bissell and Viginia Christine.  For me, the actors seemed to believe that this "little" film was worth giving their "all", regardless if many potential moviegoers might percieve their efforts as 2nd rate claptrap.  I also think that, although he is a pretty humble film maker, many of Don Siegel's motion pictures grow in prestige every decade.  "The Lineup", "The Killers" "Dirty Harry" and "Charly Varrick" are all wonderful tales told by a master story teller.  Of course, you already know most or all of the above or you would not be reading a 2012 opinion of a movie made 56 years ago!  Thanks of reading.