The cover of the DVD says that it is a contemporary "Christian" drama. First, this is no Christian drama because a Christian drama focuses on Jesus Christ and not on Mormon missionaries. It is definitely Mormon propaganda because it starts off by having one of the main characters explain that present day Mormons do not practice polygamy anymore. The Mormon faith sanctioned the practice in the past. In fact, Joseph Smith - the so called "Mormon phrophet" and LDS founder had several wives. It also shows the main character flashing "The Book of Mormon." He says, "its like the Bible." Many biblical scholars would disagree to that claim. The Book of Mormon teaches that the Mormon God (Elohim) was once man - a created being and has several goddess wives. In contrast, the Judeo-Christian God "Jehovah" or "Yahweh" was the beginning and has no creator. He doesn't have any wives. Second, anything that glorifies the good works of man as oppose to salvation through Christ alone is not from Christ. Although, the film has some truths in it, e.g. salvation through Christ, I would not hinge my faith on mixed messages as a previous review said. God does not send out mixed signals. His word in the Bible is clear. Isaiah says that "all our righteous acts are like filthy rags." A real Christian drama would NEVER feature bikini clad women and have men oggling them even if they call themselves "missionaries." The Bible says that "Any man who looks at a woman lustfully, has committed adultery in his heart." Moreover, the book of Mormon teaches that Jesus Christ and Satan are brothers - both of whom are sons of Elohim; that all Mormons will become like God; that Jesus married Mary, Martha and Mary Magdalene (polygamy) and; that Elohim had sex with Mary to conceive Jesus; and that Joseph Smith was the direct descendant of Jesus from one of his marriages. I don't think any Christian faith would espouse these principles. Most importantly, the clear evidence of the Holy Bible's power is in its power to change lives. I've seen drug addicts, homosexuals, criminals, really evil people turn to Christ and leave their lifestyles behind. They come out changed people after hearing Biblical truth. I have a lot of LDS friends. I consider them good people. A lot of them are upper class, white and privileged people. Very different from the drug addicts, etc. I have met. They look prestine from the outside. But, I have yet to see a real change in their lives after reading the Book of Mormon. I can see that the emphasis is good works - the outside. Not what Jesus really looks at - the heart. If you want a genuine Christian drama you'd be better off watching "The Passion of the Christ," "End of the Spear" or "Facing the Giants." These films give glory to the one who deserves all the glory - JESUS CHRIST, not the "good works" of Joseph Smith or 2 dorks on white shirts with black nameplates who do not know what they are talking about.