Their last American tour (and most neglected) before corporate sponsorship became vogue and in comes this godsend. Gone are the glitz and glamour of the past few tours and the focus is strictly the music. This translates beautifully into video and it shows the punks. They must have realized that "Some Girls" was vintage Stones because seven of its ten tracks are represented here and in succession. It was definitely an album meant for the road. Even though the rockers are pretty faithful to the studio renditions, they storm into them with abandon. "Miss You" is wondrous as an extended jam and on "Far Away Eyes", Mick sits at the piano and the lineup is augmented for this song by a violin/fiddle played by Doug Kershaw. On "Beast of Burden" there's a brief moment when Mick and Keith step up to the mic and they make clear this is a show that they truly relish. They seem to have an extrasensory rapport.

They brilliantly reorient their "Exile On Main Street" material by stripping the horns and backup vocalists so it will be more integrated with the rest of the music. Most successful in the transformation is Keith's raving rocker, "Happy", which showcases his voice in all his ragged glory. "Star Star" is another great showpiece. Though Ron Wood might not be as academically adept as Mick Taylor on guitar, he still makes inspired noise. And visually, he's a much more colorful and integral figure on the stage. They're intelligent enough to close this show with their two greatest live staples: "Brown Sugar" and "Jumpin' Jack Flash", still fresh enough to make it a new listening experience.

Maybe the Stones were an institution by this point, but they still had exciting new music and ideas that one wasn't clamoring yet for what they once delivered. Frontman Mick is in exceptional voice throughout and doesn't hog the camera in the least. If you want to know why Charlie Watts is sometimes considered the greatest drummer in rock, this is as good a place as any to find out. The audience is on their feet, a sure sign of a great show. And a great show it is.

P.S. The 2011 interview with Mick and the 1978 Saturday Night Live performance are highlights of the extras.