What a horrible movie...  It is Fred Astaire's &amp; Ginger Rogers's ninth movie together.  If you watch them all in order, as I have so far, you won't have any reason to assume "The Story of Vernon and Irene Castle" will be any different from their previous eight movies, which were all "blithe, breezy" musicals; most of them end with the two getting married, and a couple are so identical to each other that I can never remember whether given scenes appear in one or the other.  Every single one of the previous eight can be classified as a romantic comedy.  The ninth movie, however, evokes no laughter.  I found out the hard way that it tells a shamelessly sorrowful story (based on actual events).  It has no dances that could properly be classed with those in the other movies; all of their dancing here is done as part of paid performances, as tryouts for paid performances, or as preparation for tryouts for paid performances.  There is one exception to this generalization:  when they first perform the "Castle Walk" in their flat.  This dance is done spontaneously, for no one but themselves.  The problem with it is that it's done after Vernon (Astaire) breaks bad news to Irene (Rogers).  They dance for lack of anything else in their lives to keep them happy, but it's a dance to allieve their pain, not one to celebrate their happiness.  In that respect, it is just as different as the other dances are from those in their eight other collaborations.  The dances there are celebrations of synergy, the songs the heart of courtship-they are forms of communication between two familiar strangers.  There are songs here, too, but they are last heard in sadness.  It's difficult to describe what makes "The Story of Vernon and Irene Castle" so horrifying, but I think it has something to do with the technique of "casting against type".  This isn't completely accurate, since the characters here essentially follow the same vein as their previous ones; it is more like "plotting against cast"; that is, writing a nightmare version of a Fred &amp; Ginger plot and having them play it straight.  And then telling the audience that it's based on a real story.  About a real dancing couple.  This does not make it any more pleasant to share their experiences.  Any reality in the lives of Fred &amp; Ginger (as we know the characters, even when they go by other names) is unwelcome.  They have their own realities, different every time, but identical in spirit.  In life.  There is no life here.  This is a horribly fitting farewell movie, with not one plot twist that isn't seen coming; it's a textbook tear-jerker that pulls all the right strings...which left me wondering what kind of a monster would take from Fred &amp; Ginger the one thing they always had:  a happy ending.  Don't get me wrong-like I said, it's a textbook movie, and there's nothing wrong with it.  In fact, as tragic ones go, this is just about the best, for the same reason that I would hate to see it again:  although Fred &amp; Ginger live eight other lives before this, there is a thread running through all of them, and it ends here.