Jonathan, a friend of mine, and myself were sitting in our cushioned seats before both Superman Returns and Dead Mans Chest were about to roll through the projection reel. As "rated pg-13 for frightening moments" appeared I whispered... "Lady in the Water." Jonathan smiled and said, "No way you can tell what movie it is just by the rating..." "LADY IN THE WATER" appeared a few seconds later.

I am a huge Shyamalan fan, as most everybody and their mother likes to say. I have been eagerly, no, EAGERLY awaiting his newest film, and what I will say - may astound you. It is rediculously rare that a movie is almost solely relying on the name of its director to succeed. Lucas, Spielberg, Lynch, Donner, Eastwood... Just a handful and a few others. But in this case we still have a relative newbie. Since 98 four films have been released that have at the core been imaginitive and original. Though, in this film a character (a critic no less) points out that, "There is no more originality, its a sad fact but we must accept it."

I say all that to say this: I will not describe the DOZENS of steps this movie takes to get from one point to the other. I won't Describe the creatures, nor the hidden agenda for which everyone is a part of. No, I will only say that I liked the movie. But then again, I liked Solaris... as my friends fell asleep.

I liked it because it is a farely pure tale of hope. (Though contrived) Also, Giamatti's character is astounding to me. And believe it or not, the movie is very funny. No, not unintentionally. Some may think so. This is not his best film by any standards. I give that award to Signs, which is tied for my all-time favorite movie (with Awakenings by the way). Everyone likes movies for different reasons, the rest you can discover.

The Dislikes would have to be, and this is my soapbox, DON'T BRING OUT THE EVIL CREATURE, NOR THE GOOD CREATURE, OUT EARLY IN THE FILM. Jaws, Signs, Close Encounters... Come On!! I feel like he broke his own rules. I KNOW that he actually does this to a certain extent, but the payoff is so fast that its more of a blur than an enjoyment. I didn't like how the "Bedtime story" is actually an epic that has to be spoken quickly and often. It's more like "Cliff-notes to the history of the Narf society". I was able to keep up, but I am afraid others will have issues.

There is a scene in Lady in the Water that is so touching that it stands alone as a really great moment that Paul Giamatti's character has before the end. Really powerful. Also I loved the opening shot/scene after the cave drawings. You heard right. I also loved the fact that in the movie there is no outside world, only the apartment complex. That sense of solitude is what made Signs so great.

Lady in the Water is a movie that I recommend because to me, its good. Though there are times where Shyamalan blatantly has his characters speaking about THIS MOVIES could-be-problems. But hey, movies should be about the experience, and I enjoyed mine, though I am sure before Lady in the Water finishes its run there will be many a candybar scraped from the screens. Here's hoping for the next Shyamalan film, may it be a movie that people don't expect a twist... then has one anyway.