In "Dreams," some of Kurosawa's most fundamental beliefs are presented to us in eight artistic and visually stunning vignettes.

The first dream, "Sunshine Through the Rain" is about a young boy who is warned by his mother not to go into the woods and look upon the wedding of the foxes.  The boy disobeys his mother and when the foxes discover that he has seen them they send a message to his mother that he must commit suicide for his transgression.

Kurosawa's pro-environmental stance is beautifully illustrated in the dream segment "The Peach Orchard."  After being laid waste by human hands nature allows an innocent boy to enjoy the beautiful sight of a peach orchard returning to full bloom once more, after which the orchard returns to its devastated state.

"The Blizzard" is a story of human endurance stretched to its limits as one by one climbers caught in a blizzard on a mountain succumb to the storm and die.  Although it is a bleak story, the "snow fairy," (probably death), appears to the last survivor and helps to guide him into the land of the dead without his feeling overwhelmed by the futility and desperation of his final moments.

An officer, the sole survivor of his unit, journeys home grief stricken after the war in "The Tunnel."  As he approaches a tunnel a "snarling centennial," (dog), comes out of the tunnel towards him.  Afraid, but driven to continue on his journey, the solider enters the darkness of the tunnel.  As he exits he hears the sound of marching approaching him from inside the tunnel he has just left and is confronted by his dead comrades.  They are not aware that they are dead and the conversations between the living and the dead are heart wrenching.

In "Crows," a visitor to an art museum enters the Vincent Van Gogh, (played by Martin Scorsese), painting "Wheat Field with Crows."  In an almost humorous scene, Van Gogh tells the visitor that, "Yesterday I was trying to do a self-portrait, but the ear kept getting in the way."  Soon Van Gogh is off traipsing through the landscape with the visitor trying to keep up with the elusive artist.  The colors and landscape we encounter in this dream are breathtaking!

"Mount Fuji in Red" tells of the horror and devastation surrounding the people of Tokyo as nuclear plants explode releasing their deadly mother lode and there is no place to go to escape the situation, except into the sea.  Horrified citizens are in a state of shock and disbelief that their government had lied to them, having reassured them that "Nuclear plants were safe."

In "The Weeping Demon" man succumbs to the insanity of nuclear war.  The earth, as we know it, has been destroyed.  As a result of the high levels of radiation, the earth and its remaining inhabitants have mutated into what can only be described as a "hellish" nightmare.

And finally, in "The Village of the Watermills" a young man stumbles across a picturesque village and an old man sitting by watermills.  Technology has skirted around the village and the young man is in awe of the clean air and clean water.  The villagers' balanced lifestyle and their living harmoniously within the bounds of nature affords them long and healthy lives.  There is a funeral going on at the time of the young man's visit and the villagers are celebrating and joyful.

I loved this movie.  It is beautiful to look at and eloquently espouses some of the beliefs of one of the truly gifted directors of all time.  He was a man who deeply believed in tradition and honor, who took humankind's role as steward of the earth seriously; who believed that technology for technology's sake is not necessarily a good thing, and who believed war to be an abomination.