I'm guessing if your reading this review you have probably heard both good and bad things about this movie, I'm happy to report many of the good things are true, but so are the bad.

WARNING SOME SPOILERS MAY FOLLOW

The movie started off good enough, with an impressive battle between Godzilla and the Gotengo(human battleship)the ship manages to incase Big G in ice(they were battling in antartica). Fast forward a few years and when have yet another impressive battle between the Gotengo and this time Manda, underwater I might add, and even though we don't see Manda very long, he was none the less impressive.

I won't go into to much detail, but eventually we found out that their are a bunch of mutants running around with very Matrix like powers and then eventually a bunch of monsters start running around major cities, it was great to see some old faces.

I won't say anymore about this, but eventually the Xillians show up who are aliens and they claim do destroy the monsters. Then it's found out that their the real bad guys, yeah didn't see that coming. Anywho there are lots of human fight scenes in hear, which comes to the point I disliked most about the movie.

GODZILLA WAS A SUB PLOT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Yes faithful Godzilla lovers, itleast thats what it seemed like to me. Eventually the few surviving humans decide to go free Godzilla and make him follow them around and defeat all the other kaijum this is where the movie picks up.

Yes the fight scenes are incredible and although they are different they feel fresh and new. Again I won't go into details, but this movie is a let down at parts, yet it exceels at some parts. The human/alien fight scenes are neat, but they are clearly X-Men, Matrix parodies and thats not what you watch a Godzilla movie.

To sum it up Godzilla Final Wars is a very enjoyable film, which is a let down at some points and a triumph at others. It focus to much on the humans and aliens, and the whole plot in itself. And lets not forget whose 50th anniversary it is, Big G doesn't have near enough screen time. He truly is the star however and the movie exceels whenever he is on screen, and then plummets when he is absent.

I think this will sum it up better, is GFW the best Godzilla film, no it is far from it. Is it the worst G film, most certainly not. It is a very fun movie that I would highly recommend, but it is not the masterpiece of a Godzilla movie I suppose I was hoping for, falling well below King of the Monsters and G vs Destroyah, but exceeling over many. Don't go by my review though, go judge for yourself, it's more of a popcorn movie than anything else.