Like its two lead characters, ROLE MODELS is a movie that doesn't seem to be expecting too much of itself as it lures us into familiar man-child territory.

Seann William Scott and (co-writer) Paul Rudd are Wheeler and Danny, two low-achieving coworkers paid to travel to schools with an act that preaches against drugs while pushing powerful energy-drinks as the safe alternative.  The difference between them?  Wheeler loves his work and thinks of Danny as his friend.  Danny hates his job, the fact that he should have done more with his life and can't commit to being more than a colleague to Wheeler.  Danny's mean, sarcastic and rude to coffee shop baristas.  Clearly he doesn't deserve a girlfriend like Beth (Elizabeth Banks), who rejects his spontaneous marriage proposal and dumps him instead.  Danny's dejection leads to a tangle with the law and soon he and Wheeler are sent to perform 150 hours of community service at the local mentoring program, Sturdy Wings.

This is where the movie grows some wings of its own and really takes off.  The flight path may be familiar, and there are no surprises when it comes to a predictably happy landing.  But the journey becomes a lot of fun when Wheeler and Danny become "Bigs" to two very different "Littles," Ronnie (Bobb'e J. Thompson) and Augie (Christopher Mintz-Plasse).

It's clear that on paper at least, our two ROLE MODELS lack all the traditional skills required to teach anything to the kids.  Fast-talking, foul-mouthed Ronnie is the product of broken home in need of a father figure, not a "booby" obsessed party lover like Wheeler.  The costume-sewing fantasy game participant Augie shouldn't expect much sympathy from the snide Danny.  Bad mentoring leads to chaos, confusion and near-tragedy.  But somehow, everyone develops the sturdiness of wing to make it to the end having taught something to someone else--and discovered something essential about themselves.

Supporting characters add to the fun throughout, especially Jane Lynch as the ex-coke-addict who founded the Sturdy Wings program and the various costumed characters who take the game of "Laire" very seriously indeed.

ROLE MODELS is a movie that won't teach you much.  But it will definitely make you laugh.