which is what I was led to believe for years. I finally saw _Gimme Shelter_ and I was delightfully surprised at the story and the way the Maysles constructed this film. Throughout the film you get the idea that you're looking back; that is, the film is not linear but self-conscious and self-referencing. Concert footage is interspersed with footage of the Maysles and the Stones previewing the concert footage. A lot of the concert footage is so good that you can get lost in that alone and forget about the rest of the film going on. I suppose that's one of the great things about the film. It really captures a broad picture of the Rolling Stones and the music industry. You get down time with the band, lawyers wheeling and dealing and such, response from fans and, of course, you get the amazing performances by the Stones. Very deconstruction. 
 I guess it's about the second half of the film where things start to get ugly. The Stones want to stage a free concert in San Francisco(originally the Golden Gate Park) and are plagued with setbacks. They finally make a deal with the folks at the Altamont Speedway and the concert is a go. 300,000 people show up as well as dozens of Hell's Angels from the San Francisco and neighboring California chapters. This turns out to be a recipe for disaster as the Angels beat the [heck] out of the folks up close to the stage and one Angel even knocks out the Jefferson Airplane guitar player (don't recall who). The concert has to be stopped periodically throughout the day whenever one or more of the Angels goes berserk on some hippie freaking out on drugs. So by the time the Stones hit the stage, at nightfall, a deadly animosity between the Angels and the crowd has about reached critical mass. Mick pleads with the Angels and the crowd to, "Stop fighting!", but the violence continues, culminating in the stabbing death of an 18-year-old black kid in a bright green zoot-suit at the hands of the Angels. But the blame isn't so easily cast, for when the Maysles review the film the youth is seen drawing and firing a pistol at the Angels before it's knocked away and he's stabbed to death. 
 The concert at Altamont deflates the carefree, excessive arrogance of the self proclaimed, "Greatest Rock-and-Roll Band Ever" and the film ends on a rather bitter note. Fans of the Stones will be happy with this film as they get to see their idols in the height of youth. The extras on the DVD are really good also. You get commentary and a bunch of radio interviews recorded after the Altamont debacle. Also, Mick playing Ike Turner's Telecaster and singing backstage with Ike and Tina (can't be missed) and a short on how the film was cleaned up for digital transfer. The booklet is also very nice and I'm glad they included this booklet instead of putting the essays on the DVD and enraging me. Nothing worse than having to read a text essay off of the TV.