I started watching the show when it went into syndication 5 - 6 years ago. I was never able to catch it during its regular time slot. The TV stations in my area did not show the syndicated episodes in order and mixed up episodes from different seasons.  So, unlike most Frasier fans, I had no context of episodes with their prospective seasons when I got my hands on the first two sets of Frasier DVDs.  I just assumed that all of the shows I saw on TV were recent and NOT FROM THE FIRST SEASON.  Boy, was I wrong.

This DVD set is absolutely amazing.  Most of the episodes I had seen before, but I had no idea that they came from the first season. Most TV shows are very "green" their first season and when compared with subsequent seasons, the "greenness" becomes even more apparent.  It's so easy to point out the first shows from the later ones due to weaker writing, character development, and acting. Even weaker set designs and costumes/wardrobe are tell-tale signs of a TV show's first season. However, Frasier hit the ground running and was on mark from the very first show, "The Good Son".

This show demonstrated an enormous amount of development within it first 24 episodes.  I agree with another Amazon reviewer who said that the show's success was due to the writers/creators/producers taking only the name "Dr. Frasier Crane" and his basic personality from "Cheers", but developing a whole new setting and set of characters for "Frasier".  To me, this is why the show had such a strong first season. Due to this desire to set itself apart from "Cheers", "Frasier" developed a strong sense of "self" rarely seen in a first season.  However, Frasier never attempted to sever its ties to "Cheers".  It just refused to become Cheers, part II.

Although, I love Frasier, I was taken aback when I first laid eyes on his younger brother Niles.  Niles is definitely my favorite character.  This leads me to another reason for the show's excellent first season.  Its star was surrounded by highly talented actors with well-developed characters.  Sure, Frasier, by himself, was a delight to see, but without Niles, Daphne, Roz, Martin, and even Eddie the dog...where would this show had gone?  Even minor characters at Frasier's radio station (KACL) are unforgettable (like Bulldog, Gil, and Noel). These supporting characters were powerful in their own right, but never overpowered Frasier's star billing.

So, this DVD set is definitely worth getting and unlike other TV shows that are now on DVD, you don't have to wait until the second, third or even fourth season DVDs to come out before getting the best shows.  Frasier is worth getting from the very first episode onward.  It's brilliance came through from the beginning and if such a thing were possible, each episode and season that followed improved and built upon the previous.  It's rare for a show to do that and this is why Frasier will be spinning in my DVD player for years to come.