*No spoilers*

Once again we come across another inspirational film to tell us that dreams do come true. The road to success is a difficult one--you might be the only one seeing it. The Astronaut Farmer is an uplifting, but formulistic film about a man who fought against all odds to follow the path to redemption--yes, we have seen it before, but it doesn't hurt to experience it again.

Story:

Texan farmer and ex astronaut-in-training Charles Farmer (Billy Bob Thornton) has a particular dream; he wants to go to space. In order to accomplish that, he builds a rocket--with a bunch of leftovers from a military junkyard--right in his barn. He is smart and has a strong engineering background to complete this peculiar, but dangerous project. His family and many of his friends support his goal, but unfortunately he is broke--the bank is about to take his property. Not only that, the government has found out about his "project" and will try to stop it. Will he ever launch his rocket?

Review:

The Astronaut Farmer brings back the same "feel good" formula of previous films like The World's Fastest Indian and The Pursuit of Happyness, where our main characters have one thing in common; they all want their dreams come true at any cost. In this film we see a supportive family--his wife and three kids--who stick with Farmer during the good times and bad. In a way, the rocket is what unites his family. They have no money--probably spent on the rocket--but he makes his family part of his dream by letting them participate in his project. Working on the rocket becomes a family tradition.

I'm not a big fan of Billy Bob Thornton--the memories of Bad Santa and The Alamo are still fresh on my mind--but in this movie, he gives us a decent performance. He is a likable family man. His "follow your dream" clich&eacute; speech is not as uplifting as other similar films, but it gets the job done.

The Astronaut Farmer was craftily shot. The special effects are about average, but create the desired effect--and some funny moments. It's not jaw-dropping a la Apollo 13 and it doesn't want to be.

Unfortunately, not everything in The Astronaut Farmer is "inspirational." Low points of the film are the tiresome topic, soapy feeling and long draggy parts. The notion of somebody building a rocket in his farm--by himself and with almost no budget--to go to outer space is a bit far-fetched. Also some of the humor feels force and unnecessary, especially the "it's so huge" comments by a local girl.

The Verdict:

"Been there done that" is what people are going to say when they get out of the theater. The Astronaut Farmer is another film that gives us hope--once again--to go ahead and build a rocket to reach our dreams. It has its flaws, but it's a good "feel good" family film nevertheless.

My Score: 7