One reviewer on Amazon of the printed book said he found a copy thrown away on the roadside.  He picked it up and read it.  Amusingly, he said that after reading it, decided to dispose of "Disgrace" properly this time: by tearing it up and putting it into the proper place - a trash bin.

$30 (price on Amazon at the time of this review) is a costly gamble, even for an exotic art house Blu-ray.  In contrast, a wildly more entertaining Blu-ray package, like the entire season 1 of Spartacus: Blood and Sand in Blu-ray costs only marginally more at $35.  I mentioned Spartacus because I had a hard time deciding which fictional story was harder to believe: Disgrace or Spartacus.

For scenic beauty of rural South Africa in Blu-ray, Disgrace is worth the money.  In time to come, such scenes would need help from CGI.  The Australian movie company filmed the movie in South Africa.  Australian terrain is similar, but the "ambience" would not be right.

(Zhang Yimou, the Chinese film director, once complained that it is increasingly harder to shoot movies set in rural Chinese areas.  The increasing cost of transporting film crews to places far away from cities, lack of hotel accommodation and facilities in outlying areas, logistics and so on, can make a movie shot in a simple remote village prohibitively expensive.  A satellite dish or a condominium block in the background kills historical authenticity.)

Disgrace is true to the text, although it has been massively abridged in the movie version.  I have not experienced a John Malkolvich movie moving along at such a fast pace.  As a movie, Disgrace is a straightforward story.  It is a bullet point summary of JM Coetzee's novel, without much of the allegorical nuances.

Visual depiction of intense culture shock and outrageous societal violence is nicely done in Disgrace, just as Spartacus tests boundaries for graphic violence.

Three scenes stay in my mind:

1. The University class taught by John Malkovich was poorly represented by black students.

2. John Malkovich was badly burnt on the face and body, but at the clinic, the white man was ordered to queue behind 20-odd black patients who look like non-urgent routine follow-up cases to me.  Never ever going to happen in real life. Ultimate fiction.

3. In the "Behind the Scenes" special feature, it is still the white man doing the directing, and the black man doing the moving of the props.

If you are intellectually inclined, you will enjoy looking for facets of the story, which are metaphorical parodies, as you would with "Animal Farm".  The metaphors chosen by the author could not be more unfortunate in being odious.  The Booker and Nobel committees somehow consider them politically correct.

After watching the movie, I understood more than from the book, why white folk fled in droves to Australia and New Zealand.  JM Coetzee himself never gave a reason why he emigrated from South Africa to Adelaide, a super-white city in Australia, after being awarded the Nobel Prize.  Disgrace, after all, is supposed to be a story of hope for a post-apartheid South Africa - but the author emigrated.

As a work of fiction, many scenarios are more improbable than those in Spartacus, so it is left to the actors in Disgrace to make the audience suspend disbelief.  John Malkovich raised the bar for all the other actors.  I see an uncanny physical resemblance between John Malkovich and JM Coetzee, or do all white folk look the same to us. I am keeping this movie as a great cinematographic record of rural South Africa in a chapter of South Africa's history.

This movie is unusual in that it actually adds more dimensions to the book, which I previously did not believe could be made into a fascinating movie.