SAVE THE LAST DANCE
Save the last dance is a different type of dance-romance film that is fitted for all ages. It is an inspiring film that captures the interest of most teenagers. For some reason, it helps them to understand more about the conflicts of life and reminds them that unexpected things really happen in one's life that can change one's simple life into a bit more complicated one. 
The film is about Sara Johnson (Julia Stiles), a simple white American teenager that is determined to get into Julliard, a top-notch ballet school. She dreams of becoming a ballet dancer and auditions into Julliard; unfortunately, her mother dies in a fatal car accident because of rushing into Sara's unsuccessful audition. Because of her mother's death, Sara blames herself and quits ballet. She then moves to Chicago where his once-caring father (Terry Kinney) lives. To continue her studies, Sara has to go to an all black high school and there is where she meets Chenille (Kerry Washington), a fun and loving teen-age mother. At first, Sara hated going in that school because of this guy named Derek (Sean Patrick Thomas) whom she debates with at an English class. This guy happens to be Chenille's brother. Later, Sara begins to make friends with Derek because of his sister Chenille. Derek helps introduce Sara to a hip-hop club called steps, where he is a natural dance floor talent. The two became good friends and begin practicing dance together, with Derek showing hip hop moves.
Conflict arises when the two starts to have a close relationship with one another. There is the pressure of everyone criticizing Derek and Sara because of the difference in their skin color. But because of their strong faith and love with each other, they continue their lives together. Sara continues her dream of becoming a ballet dancer and successfully joins the Julliard School of ballet with the help and encouragement of Derek and with the support of her father. Then on, everything goes right and the film ends up happily.