As a fan of House from Season 1, I was a bit perplexed that there would be a new cast of underlings to interact with the good doctor in Season 4. By the end of Season 3, the "ducklings" (Chase, Cameron and Foreman) had begun to develop as characters so I wondered what the writers and producers of the show could possibly be thinking by switching it up. I guess because the show is called House and not House and Co.? I intially felt that having House choose his new fellows via an survivor-style elimination game might be uninteresting but only on this "island" would one of the "contestants" be nicknamed Cutthroat Bitch.  I initially was not interested in the new characters but by the end of the season, I have found a favorite in Kal Penn and decided I would actually miss Amber a.k.a. Cutthroat Bitch. Chase, Cameron and Foreman still are present, advising the new fellows and maintaining their new found independence from Dr. House. Cuddy is still trying to get House to behave and Wilson is trying to figure out how not to enable House yet still be his friend and tolerate him. Highlights of the season are "Frozen" with guest star Mira Sorvino, who gets away with calling House a "tool," "Don't Ever Change" which is classic House, full of notable one-liners and an excellent story, and the finale episode "Wilson's Heart."  So even though Chase, Cameron, and Foreman are not "ducklings" anymore in Season 4, House continues to be a strong show. The show has managed to avoid the soap opera-quality or preachiness or even political correctness of other medical shows or television in general, which is one reason I enjoy it.  It will be interesting to see what happens in Season 5, how House's relationship changes with Wilson, what new medical mysteries arrive, how the new fellows interact with each other and House, and how how many people House can offend while simultaneously saving their lives. And for people who see Dr. House and just a one-dimensional, grumpy, offensive doctor, if you really watch the way Laurie plays him, House does actually listen to what people have to say, as if he is internalizing what they are saying, the brilliant, antisocial doctor who could actually learn from his patients and from those around him, which makes House a dynamic character on an still above-excellent show.