This film is certainly an inspiration for every aspiring director dreaming about making his way in the maze of movie industry with virtually no money in his/her pocket.. The movie was shot with the strikingly low budget of 7,000 USD (may be + or - a little) by Robert Rodriguez - my personal idol and the most insolent "director" on the face of earth! Well there are many legends about how this guy, who was fanatic about making movies and did this solely for his pleasure, decided to make a big 16 mm project and had to undergo some medical experimentation on his body to raise enough money for it, which nobody else in his sane mind would deem enough.. There is no need to recite these stories because they are well-known. But to those of you who plan to buy this DVD I strongly recommend to order it together with his book "A Rebel Without A Crew" where Rodriguez in his simple and humorous style describes the whole adventure, how he and his friends went through all the troubles to shoot the movie and then how they marketted it in Holliwood and totally by chance it was noticed by some big ones.. It's really a very exciting book and makes you go through all the thrills together with the crew members. So it's 100-times more interesting to see the movie after you read the book, because it's exciting to see how all that was so well described and nurished in the book, looks in reality. Well, and to speak honestly, the movie itself is not of very high artistic value of course, but it's value is made by the story of its creation among other things. I must say I was a little bit dissapointed when I saw the film after reading the book, which probably made my expectations too high.. It seemed to me little too primitive and vulgar at times.. but, hey, then I remembered that it was made by non-professional with virtually no equipment except an old 16 mm camera and casting random villagers.. and I forgave it all its pitfalls. Overall 4 stars from me for very good movie and even better story that veils it!

P.S. Yeah, and this DVD comes with very good add-ons, namely there is Rodriguez' short film "Beadhead" which won some prize at one of the amateur festivals. Also his "10 Minute Film School" fiturette, which is well worse seeing for every aspiring amateur director.

To those of you who might complain a little about the quality of the picture, I should remind that this film was originally shot in 16 mm format, then it was transfered on various formats several times until finally this master version was produced. So.. don't be too judgemental and just enjoy the movie!