I have to strongly, STRONGLY disagree with those who have said that Season 7, "was a shadow of the show's former brilliance", or that people "will buy this set, if only to recall how far this show fell from greatness", or that "in terms of the series itself, it's a sad end to what is the greatest television show ever made".

Although I have not yet bought Season 7 on DVD, ( I watched this season, and Season 6 when it aired on TV (although I may have seen Season 6 episodes in reruns on Court TV, I don't remember) and I have checked the Homicide DVD's - up to the end of Season 6 from the library, and I have to say, out of all the seasons of this show, Season 6 & 7 were my FAVORITES, and the ONLY ones I really liked.

I LOVED Ballard, and Falsone, and incidentally I think that they made an ADORABLE couple. I loved the addition of Michael Michele, and Giancarlo Esposito in Season 7. I think the addition of Det. Rene Sheppard (Michael Michele) was a great infusion of an aggressive yet sometimes vulnerable female character, and the character of Mike Giardello, was a nice addition to show the kind of alliances that occur in real life between federal and local police.

Seriously, in my book, Season 6 and 7 are the only ones worth watching. When I rented the other seasons fromt the library, I could barely force myself to sit there and watch it. I did, because I wanted to see what the earlier episodes were about, but I returned them FIRST chance I got.

I could not stand the characters in the earlier seasons. Even though I liked Pembleton post-stroke, before it he was bossy, cocky, and downright irritating. I didn't like Kay Howard, or Felton, or Bolander. Bayliss was okay, but like Pembleton, I liked him much better later on. Russert was okay too. I would not have minded if she had stayed on for Seasons 5, 6, and 7. I would have liked to seen how she got along with my fave characters like Ballard, Falsone, Sheppard and Stivers.

Season 6 & 7 are the BEST. Ballard and Falsone ROCK!!