How do I start to review this type of sick madness?

 At the beginning of Disc2, a young girl must wait outside while her prostitute mother handles a client. It is cold, rainy, dismal and dreary (all trademarks of Bela Tarr's filmic visions). She climbs up into a barn loft and we see her holding a cat, obviously her only companion. She sits there stroking the cat, the cat purring contentedly... then, her mother lets her client out the door and walks back into the house. We are looking down from the loft in the point of view of the little girl.

 She does not like being treated this way and starts taking her frustrations out on her only companion, the trusting, purring cat. She begins the torture by grasping the cat by it's front shoulders and starts rolling back and forth on the floor while still holding the cat and slams it back and forth, back and forth onto the floor as she's rolling. The cat is bewildered and panicked but does not bite the girl, most likely because it still TRUSTS the little girl.

 This cruelty and torture is not satisfying enough for the girl (obviously not for Bela Tarr either) and she let's the staggering cat go, goes down into the house through a back door into the kitchen area and gets some milk from a plastic bag, then, she reaches into a low cupboard drawer and takes out a container (which we assume/hope is sugar) and pours something into the milk dish, puts the container back and takes the milk dish back up into the barn loft. Think she's planning on `making up' to the cat? Eh... NO.

 When she climbs back up into the loft she has to chase the cat through the rafters before she finally captures it again. The milk dish is placed in the foreground, the girl sits behind the dish facing the camera while forcefully holding the cat. She proceeds to force the cats whole face into the milk dish, forcing the cat to drink the milk. The girl smashes the cats face into the milk dish at least three times and we witness the cat licking it's mouth but it cannot escape the girl. After the third time she smashes the cats face into the bowl she sits holding the cat to the camera very rigidly while the cat licks it's face, then, little by little the girl releases her grip and finally lets go of the cat and walks back to 'observe' her work.

 What happens? Well... if you have watched this far you have just witnessed the ONSCREEN POISONING OF A FELLOW ANIMAL! The audience watches while the cat moves less and less until... it dies.

 And THIS? IS CALLED ART!

I've NEVER understood this type of crap being accepted as 'ART'?

Tarkovsky does it numerous times in Andrei Rublev to horses, dogs and cows. Bergman kills a horse in 'The Serpent's Egg' and the ONLY reason we don't see the horse killed and butchered onscreen is because David Carradine threatened to quit the film, so, Bergman had the horse murdered off screen, butchered part of it and dragged the carcass into the road which Carradine has to walk past on film. It is explained to us that in some countries, it is permissible to kill an animal onscreen if there is a licensed Veterinarian on set - how saintly sickening.

 Just like the Hollywood etc. practice of tripping horses to get a good falling shot in Westerns - how many horses were crippled, maimed and were put to death so that we could see a 'cowboy' film?

 There is NO EXCUSE or justification EVER to injure, maim or kill a FELLOW ANIMAL.

 Where Bela Tarr found a young girl to perform this murder is beyond me. DISGUSTING!

 I think Bela Tarr is a great film maker. I love Damnation & Werkmeister Harmonies but I can NOT forgive him for this. He should, AT LEAST, be given twenty lashes with a cat-gut whip! The young witch of a girl should get five lashes. Audience members who accept murder as art should also get five lashes!