Thank you, Mike Nichols.  For putting out an adult, absorbing, brutally realistic film about the capriciousness of human nature.  You may not like what you see, you may not even like any of the characters, but for anyone who has been through the agonies, insecurities and uncertainties of relationships, they will recognize many of the myriad facets as such portrayed in this film. Of course this movie was only a mild success; it's too unflinching, too in-your-face for most of the masses to endure. For once, the sexual dynamics in a film make sense; most of the time, sex portrayed in films is really idiotic, because the strain of movie stars schticking their way through such scenarios is obvious, rarely credible, always ponderous. Here, though, people act and talk with a frankness that mirrors reality. The dialogue, explicit, often crude, sometimes bittersweet-funny as it is, seems to have been culled from the minds and mouths of real people.  Nichols isn't afraid to expose the the vulnerabilities and fears that exist in human nature, and it is gratifying that some directors still exist who provide thought-provoking, intensely stimulating movies such as this is.

  This may be one of Julia Roberts' best performances. For it places her in a new realm, that of an evolving actress capable of rising to complex material and responding superbly well to the situations and to Nichols'compact direction. Her well-known traits are kept under check here, and brings to the surface a far more interesting, multi-faceted persona. She seems more real, more human than ever.

  Natalie Portman matches Roberts in every way, and she gives the most scary element in the film. You're never sure where she or her character is going to take you, and propagates the kind of fears that will strike terror in vulnerable men.

  Jude Law also reaches new dimensions. He has a wonderfully expressive face, and he reveals, quite spontaneously, skillfully, the torments his character suffers.

  Clive Owen gives a real star turn here, and in fact dominates the film. Owen adroitly portrays a man driven by his raging hormones, and better still, disdains to apologize for it. More than any male character I've ever seen portrayed, he is exactly who he is; Larry calls himself a "caveman" to Roberts' character, but he also shows that his love for her is genuine. Owen is at his most effective during his big scene with Roberts, when she tells him of her unfaithfulness and she intends to leave.  Owen's face crumpling into heartbroken pain is entirely believable, and cuts through to the viewer; you feel his pain acutely, while reviling him on another level. Owen is not only a brilliant actor, but is devastatingly magnetic and appealing; he is the perfect embodiment of the professionally and sexually driven contemporary man.

Nichols and these actors make for a movie that you can't soon forget. It forces people to delve into interpersonal complexities that exist, but which are rarely portrayed.