This movie i should start off by saying, is not a horror flick. If you are looking for things that are going to scare your pants off then its time to look elsewhere. what this film IS, is basically a demonic (NOT HORROR) romantic/comedy/tragedy. You take the story of star crossed lovers, apply it to a man whose love was stolen away by demons and is now going to spend the movie trying to get her back by summoning the demon named Lo. The whole thing is very reminiscent of the theatre as the main character never leaves a circle of protection he has drawn to grant him power over and protection from Lo. As the story progresses his relationship with his lost girlfriend is revealed in quirky flashbacks and he is encountered by a number of demonic hosts as you learn his story. It is very dialogue heavy with simple special effects and pretty extensive demon makeup. the characters themselves are interesting, Our hero is able to pull dynamic and powerful, believable emotion to play despite the lack of mobility and action. Lo plays the part of the trickster and together with the kidnapper of our heroes girl, they embody demonic traits, though shying away from horrific aspects it delves into the emotional status of a Hell-dweller. They are snide, condescending, and are ultimately trying to break the heroes will to continue. There are some dry parts along with a character, (the girlfriend) who starts as someone unbelievable in her actions and almost ruins the feel, but if you can bear past and have her actions explained, then its completely justified. Now, i rated this film 5 of 5 because i loved it. I came from a theatre background and the style was very comfortable to. I enjoyed how it played out and told the story it set out to tell, and for a low budget filmed in only three days i was very impressed with how it accomplished what I personally wanted out of it. No it isn't a mainstream horror or love story. No it wasn't big budget with lots of action. No its not a movie with a star studded cast. Yes it is an interesting experience if you are someone who appreciates theatre. Yes it tells a story you can emotionally relate to if you take out the whole "demon" part. And Yes its a humorous take on man's relationship to hell and an exploration of human emotion. If you go into the movie knowing that you are much more likely to enjoy it than most, i know i did.