Although it's been a few years since I viewed this film, a recent barrage of disparaging remarks from both my friends as well as other voices on the Internet has motivated me to write what I would consider a fair review of this underappreciated classic.

First off I should start by saying that I am not a huge Jimmy Fallon fan.  However, his level-headed performance in this comedic gem has won me over.  Drew Barrymore also turns in a fairly atypical sterling performance, and the chemistry between the two makes Fever Pitch a highly enjoyable film.

I watched the movie with my girlfriend who is a die-hard Red Sox fan.  As a fan of DC/Baltimore area sports teams, I had mixed feelings going into the viewing.  However, like the rest of the country, the memorable run to the World Series by the 2004 Red Sox captivated me.  As a life-long baseball fanatic, I'll never forget how surreal it was to see Jimmy Fallon and Drew Barrymore out on the field after the World Series. The incessant replays of Fallon--which were ubiquitous on Sportscenter during the following year--served to pique my interest in viewing this film.  I have to disagree with my all-time favorite writer Bill Simmons when he criticizes the filmmaker's "lack of respect" for the game.  I believe having such a quintessentially historic moment on film only serves to further cement the legacy of the 2004 Red Sox.  I even found myself donning a Red Sox cap by the end of the movie, much to my roommates' chagrin.

Obviously, the sports film is the perfect vehicle for a romantic comedy because of its cross-gender appeal.  That said, there aren't a lot of films that are able to pull it off without a hitch (Forget Paris stands out as one of the few to do so).  Fever Pitch is not unlike an acquired taste in this respect.  My former roommate, for instance, constantly taunts me for having enjoyed this film.  I typically refute his accusations by claiming I have never seen it, as it is obvious to me that my passion for this picture is a pleasure some will never learn to appreciate.  Considering his taste in entertainment, (Smallville, MacGyver, some show about a supersonic helicopter with Ernest Borgnine, etc.) I feel more than secure in my opinion of Fever Pitch being a romantic classic.

I can't recommend this movie enough as a "date film."  The touching romance between Fallon and Barrymore coupled with the storied 2004 Red Sox Pennant is a potent aphrodisiac no one can resist.  Thanks to a single viewing, I now count myself as a faithful member of "Red Sox Nation," and as an Irishman, I've added a Red Sox cap to my weekly rotation of baseball teams I pretend to follow.