Ok, I grew up on this series from its black & white debut to its final cut, so read on for a review of it if you're a true fan of nostalgia.

While Hollywood may indeed be grasping at straws for material these days, occasionally they find an old serial that deserved better than its camp beginning.  If you ever watched the original, you won't mind the slow beginning or the slightly off plot, but you'll love the special effects and wonder WOW!  If they had only done that in the 60's.  William Hurt just simply doesn't measure up though as the old John Robinson, but the  rest of the cast if almost perfect.  Mimi Rogers is just spectacular in any form, let alone in that tight fighting suit they give her.  Trust me, she would have been banned in the 60's for that outfit!

If you can get past Hurt's poor portrayal you'll enjoy the rest of it as a found memory of the original and get a real kick from spotting the cameo appearences by the surviving cast members.  I still enjoy this DVD now after several years as a good reminder of my childhood made anew. I would have liked to have seen a series revival here if they would have recast William Hurt as John Robinson and wrote a few descent scripts.

In all honesty it's pretty hard to image anyone taking up Guy Williams' spot as John Robinson.  His years as Zorro just gave him a commanding presence on the screen that's almost impossible to follow up IMO.  Mimi Rogers though really brings  spice to role of Maureen Robinson the way many of us would have loved to have seen in the 60's from a Mom and that June Lockhart just never delivered past that clean cut "Leave it to Beaver" Mom image of that day.  Heather Graham and Gary Oldman are outstanding within the roles they were given, but Matt LeBlanc coming off of the "Friends" comedy thing is the real star here for me and he passes the test to transition into a more serious role with excellence here.

All in all, this a great Saturday night flick if you're bored and anyone knows it's better than what the networks are showing now.  If you know the original, you'll get a kick from it.