I saw the film Legend when it first came out in the US.  I loved the film and thought that the best acting came from the supporting actors, especially David Bennet (Gump), who I saw in the film Tim Drum.  Mia Sara does a great job, and lets see, Tom Cruise looks great in his costumes.  The less he talks the better I say since he's supposed to be a creature of the forest, he should be all physical anyway.  I've had a chance to rent and watch the Director's cut repeatedly over a week time, and while there are parts that I like because it helps the story, at the same time I prefer the shorter cut because there are scenes that just go on for no reason, especially at the beginning of the film. I think they should do a third version, that combines the two.  I prefer not to see Darkness until he is revealed to Lily.  When he stepped out of that mirror it was shocking. In the director's cut, you see him from the start, and in the shorter, the reveal was slower in coming. Also in the longer version, there is wierdly enough a longer pause after the dance but more of him is shown, whereas in the short version, starting with his hand emerging from the mirror, its just abrupt.  I know some people will say poor editing, but that is one editing mistake that works.  Almost like the similar cuts in Rocky Horror Picture Show.  Tim Curry has the kind of voice that simply makes a scene come alive without ever seeing his face, because let's face it, Tim Curry is the best thing in the film, and from the minute he emerges totally, you are entranced and repulsed by his character.  I liked the extension of the scenes between him and Lily.  Another thing, why was it necessary to tell about the importance of the capture/death of the Unicorns so many times, is this for the really slow members of the audience or people who go to the bathroom during films? I had no difficulty getting it from the US version.  The singing, well there needs to be a lot less of of it.  I liked it in the Lily/Unicorn scene and the beginning intro to Lily, but by the end of the film, I was sick of it.  I hated that it was all supposed to be a dream to Lily, who I think had farther to go for redemption than Tom.  I hated the longer cut ending because it just had no payoff.  Why did I just bother to sit through the film, if only to have Lily, say "can I come back tomorrow", like something more exciting was going to happen. You don't have the strong impression that this has marked both of them and made them grow up a little; that its links them together.  No, only the forest people can know that the world was almost lost.  Even though I'm a big fan of Jerry Goldsmith, I only like his score in certain parts, it seems to fairy taley, but not Grimm's Fairy Tales the original(yes, my family owned the original plus the orginal Hans Christian Anderson stuff, it was my mom's) but a more PC version.  I know Ridley Scott loved it from listening to the director's commentary.  I prefer the Tangerine's Dreams music during Lily's dance, the storm and the ending. Also I'm sorry but the film should never be released without the Bryan Ferry song playing at the end, because that song is amazing.  Other than that, I think the film is beautiful and I plan on buying the DVD, but I think I will be watching the shorter more than the long.