This review is actually a series of posts I made on a bulletin board...

Normally when you watch one of these movies as a kid you want the monster to live, but the Creature was so disturbing I was torn as a child. A part of me felt bad for him, but another part just wanted him to die.

Watching him eat the fish out of the trap freaked me out as a kid, because he was so relaxed in that scene you really thought he lived in that lagoon.

I'm stunned by how well this film was made. First off, they got most of the science right, which may not sound like a big deal, but 99% of the time Hollywood just makes up stuff that sounds believable and lets remember this was made in the 1950's! There were a few things they got wrong, such as saying the lagoon had been the same way for millions of years, which goes against basic geology, but I think science had different theories back then as well.

The story is thought out; the dialogue is well written, and as hideous as the creature might be he's still a sympathetic character. I am incredibly impressed. I have heard the original two Frankenstein movies received similar reviews and will now want to see those next.

It's interesting watching these films again as an adult. Since they're genuinely well made you grow to have a different sort of appreciation for them that goes beyond, but includes, the monsters.

I just finished watching the third in the trilogy, THE CREATURE WALKS AMONG US.

All I have to say is... OH MY GOD!!! These were a great set of films. I'm stunned.. Having not seen any of these films since about the age of 10 I found myself experiencing several flashbacks. While watching the second film, THE CREATURE'S REVENGE, I was brought back to my 9 year old self sitting alone in the living room horrified as the scientist walked around the pool of water trying to revive the creature. I remember thinking, "Oh my God, he's touching it. How can he do that??? Why isn't he scared?  It's disgusting and when it wakes up he won't have time to get out of the way and it's going to kill him!!!

At least that's what I remember thinking.

THE CREATURE WALKS AMONG US is the last film. It always bothered the living hell out of me when they tried to make him human and now even as an adult I find myself really disliking the scientist who thought it would be scientific research to cut up the Creature, making him not the Creature any more.

The best part of the movie: Any time the Creature is swimming. It's still creepy as all hell, and the underwater scenes are beautifully shot. This really is amazing for 1954-1956

The Worst part: Any time they suddenly show the creature and that same set of trumpets blow the exact same pattern in an effort to startle everyone.

I really enjoyed BACK TO THE BLACK LAGOON. The documentary was a nice addition tot he set. Go order this set. It is well worth the price of admission.