Young Will Shakespeare (Joseph Fiennes) delivers the above final heartfelt words in the bittersweet ending to the most memorable romantic film in the decade of the 1990's.  Along the way the viewer is taken on a captivating journey back in time to the golden age of Elizabeth I in the near end of the sixteenth century where literary giants William Shakespeare and Christopher Marlowe (Rupert Everett) dominate and vie for theatrical prominence.  "Shakespeare in Love" is a bountiful smorgasbord with enough sweet and savory tidbits to please everyone: a sizzling yet warmhearted love affair between two charismatic, gorgeous young players, comedy that ranges from the bawdy and slapstick to burnished wit and satire, lustrous pearls of poetry in excerpts from "Romeo and Juliet", swashbuckling sword fights, cross-dressing, mistaken identity plus sixteenth century gangsters and enough "in-jokes" to satisfy the most erudite Shakespearian scholar.

Here's a brief synopsis, it's 1593 in London, England, Queen Elizabeth (Judi Dench) reigns triumphantly, but actor/playwright Will Shakespeare has a severe case of writer's block.  He urgently needs a feminine "muse" for inspiration and with a little bit of luck to also satisfy an ever-present sexual itch, since it's been awhile for that as well, and he's a pretty lusty fellow!  Enter Lady Viola de Lesseps (Gwyneth Paltrow), a beautiful stage-struck young heiress, who auditions for Will's new play "Romeo and Ethel the Pirate's Daughter" disguised as a male, "Thomas Kent", since it was verboten for women to appear on the stage.  This is being presented at the Rose Theatre owned by the pragmatic Philip Henslowe (Geoffrey Rush), and is initially going to be a comedy, but has yet to be written.  Struck by "Thomas Kent's" audition at the Rose reciting Will's work, Will pursues him to the De Lesseps estate, which is the midst of preparing for a ball that evening.  Bluffing his way in to the celebration, he catches a glimpse of the beauteous Viola and Cupid shoots a shaft into his heart.  Dazzled and lovesick, he manages to speak and dance with her, and she is smitten with him as well.  After the ball, they have a brief tête-&agrave;-tête at the balcony of Viola's bedchamber.  However, Will doesn't realize Thomas Kent and Lady Viola are one and the same, and Kent is awarded the role of Romeo the following day.  That night Will discovers Viola's ruse, and both happily plunge into a passionate love affair aided and abetted by Viola's loyal nurse (Imelda Staunton).  Viola is indeed the inspiration Will requires, he rises each morning from Viola's bed newly refreshed and reinvigorated like the fabled phoenix with the flame of his talent soaring brightly.  His frivolous comedy undergoes a sea change, evolving into a purer and finer work, the tragedy of "Romeo and Juliet", with "Thomas Kent" continuing to play Romeo.  Yet the path to true love doesn't run smoothly, Lady Viola is newly betrothed to an impoverished blueblood, the arrogant and jealous Lord Wessex (Colin Firth) for his pedigree by her wealthy, social climbing father, and will be married after two weeks, and Will though separated has a wife and three children back in Stratford on Avon.  Besides all that, the play's genesis is bumpy, what with Henslowe still expecting a comedy, a loan shark to whom Henslowe owes money, Hugh Fennyman (Tom Wilkinson) and his henchman lurking in the background, a star player Ned Alleyn (Ben Affleck) whose large ego needs constant coddling, and the Queens Master of the Revels Edmund Tilney (Simon Callow) prowling around looking for any excuse to shot down the Rose Theatre.  How will this all resolve itself?

My wife and I first discovered Gwyneth Paltrow in a revival of William Inge's "Picnic" at the Williamstown Theatre Festival in the summer of 1991.  She was just nineteen and up to that point I had only known her as the daughter of one of my favorite actresses, Blythe Danner.  Well, in a supporting role she stole the show, upstaging not only her mother, but also such well-known actors as Tony Goldwyn and Jane Krakowski.  It was thrilling to see such raw talent burst upon the stage, and from then on my wife and I were fans, and expecting wondrous portrayals from her.  With her Viola in "Shakespeare in Love", she fulfilled that early promise. She skillfully brings off her dual role as Viola/Thomas creating two markedly different individuals, and two separate English accents.  While as Thomas, she looks a shade shifty and anxious, it works in the context of the story, since Viola needs to be sure her disguise won't be penetrated.  As Lady Viola she is the perfect English rose, with a blooming peaches and cream complexion and luxuriant, rippling waves of sun kissed tresses.  Her Viola is indeed Shakespeare's heroine for all time, a woman for all seasons. You can well believe that besides sparking the creation of Viola in "Twelfth Night", she is also responsible for other memorable, entrancing Shakespearian heroines such as Rosalind, Portia and Beatrice.  Her Viola is a young woman with a twentieth century sensibility bold, adventurous, free thinking yet canny and wise all the while retaining her femininity.  When fate unexpectedly lends a hand and she gets to actually play Juliet to Will's Romeo at the premier performance, she is at first luminous vision of innocence in gleaming gold and ivory satin who rapidly ripens into a passionate woman because of her love.

Regarding Joseph Fiennes performance as Will Shakespeare, my wife and I felt the same sensation we had of Ms. Paltrow's in "Picnic", the discovery of an exciting young actor of power and authority.  His young Shakespeare has a brooding authority, a sense of mystery, a touch of star quality, and the promise of future greatness, yet there is a refreshing sense of naïvet&eacute;, and a dry sense of humor.  His Will is a man of many parts, just as the real person must have been.  Fiennes' lean, dark, dashing handsomeness balances well the angelic blonde beauty of Paltrow.  Their love scenes together flare with a white-hot incandescence, they are truly erotic, yet there is a tenderness and true love there as well.  Mr. Fiennes was the only main member of the cast who was overlooked by the Academy Awards for a nomination, sheer stupidity!