This film is not a low budget production. The acting is quite good. The casting even better: Manfred von Richthofen is visually almost cloned in Matthias Schweigh&ouml;fer, especially when he imitates the iconic facial expressions that we see in Richthofen's photographs. The CGI is first rate, resulting in very convincing, atmospheric scenes. This is not actually a war film, that is to say, it is not an action film; so the amount of on-screen flying and dogfighting is minimal. The technical details are almost entirely correct. I did see where many aircraft types were in operation long before their historical entry date (and Lanoe Hawker flew a DeHavilland DH2, not an SE5). Compared to the travesty that was CGI "flight" in "Fly Boys", the flight and combat scenes in "The Red Baron" are epics of realism. I was satisfied visually with the little bit of war "footage" that this film gave me. Also, despite most of the critical, even objectionable commentary that I have read in the years since this movie first came out, I did not find the script particularly poor, as movie scripts go. There were no glaring embarrassments where my belief in the story, as it was being presented, was utterly suspended or offended.

Those are the positive aspects of the film. Now to the far weightier negative side:

This is meant to be an anti-war picture, using "the Red Baron" as the catalyst. Or, I should rather say, exploiting Manfred von Richthofen long after his death to make an anti-war statement - again and yet again, as if we haven't already got enough deliberately, politically correct anti-war films. But as an anti-war statement it largely fails. This is mainly because of the undue focus on the romantic relationship with Kate, the nurse who ministered to von Richthofen while he convalesced following a serious bullet wound to the head (unhistorically, inflicted by Roy Brown - Manfred was actually wounded by the gunner of an FE2 observation plane). Kate is a major character in this movie; no matter where Jasta 11 goes, there too goes the nurse. In their last scene together she even emerges from the baron's tent, having obviously spent the night. The romantic attachment is okay; it might even be mildly historical, since she and Richthofen would have seen a great deal of each other for weeks. But to have Kate also nurse Roy Brown earlier; then to have the two of them meet in "No Man's Land" and discuss her over sips of brandy from Brown's flask, is pushing the romantic "triangle" into strained emphasis. All we see in the end is this doomed, embryonic romance which dominates the plot and saps any anti-war message going on.

There is "lip service" paid several times throughout the picture to the horrors of war and the hypocrisy of the German propaganda machine that the media had become. But we never see more than a few severely wounded men in a hospital ward. There is no feeling of countless hundreds of thousands of troops doomed to push each other back and forth through curtains of lead and high explosive. All we see are a few dozen soldiers at a time. (Even Young Indiana Jones on TV got the panoramic scope of a massed advance across "No Man's Land" right.) "The Red Baron" shows virtually none of the horrors of war that it is out to decry. So as a film it fails in its purpose and leaves the viewer with a pallid, unconvincing love story instead; and not even a tragic one at that, since virtually everyone viewing the movie already knows that von Richtohofen was killed in combat.

The "making of" track hammers home the unhistorical relationship of Richthofen and Brown that the movie portrays, as if everything we've just seen actually happened, and in fact NONE of it happened. I found the "making of" track largely a waste of time. And the actors' interviews were shallow and groping (perhaps the actors are, I don't know).

So, in summation: I give three stars for the visuals and photography - it is a pretty picture; 2.5 stars for the casting and acting over all; if the historical accuracy (especially of Richthofen's personality) had been there I would give at least two stars for the script, but since the script's only virtue is that it is a film first and history last - and as such it is terrible factually - it gets only one star for script. And this crime of bogus "facts" masquerading as history is pounded home further in the "making of" documentary, making me want to kick some writers', directors' and producers' backsides around the block.