If you need a pick-me-up after watching Blade Runner or Aliens, this film is definitely for you.

In this fun film (no one could mistake this for a "serious work of science fiction"), Alex Rogan is the  prototypical small-town young man with big dreams for his future - which  fall down flat.  Doomed to a life in a trailer park in the sticks, he seeks  escape in an arcade game (remember those?)  Without giving away too much of  the film for those who might not have seen it, his gaming expertise lands  him a *very* big opportunity.

Lance Guest is very engaging in the role of  Alex; we can feel his frustration - almost despair - as he faces a bleak  future doing odd jobs in the trailer park.

Later in the film, when we  see him offered the chance to be more than he is, to become what he is  capable of being, and to take on what seems to be an impossible task, we  can see his transformation into a genuine hero - capable yet modest, and a  man who really cares about what's important and is willing to do something  about it.

Dan O'Herlihy - completely unrecognizeable under makeup - is  good as the character Grig - though the part was a bit shallow for an actor  of his talent.

The shining star of the movie, though, is the late Robert  Preston as Centauri.  He plays the role with the same charm he exhibited in  The Music Man; indeed, the character is loaded with the same combination of  boyish enthusiasm and even suave huckster-ism as Prof. Harold Hill.  This  film is worth the price just to see his performance.

When it comes to a  sci-fi film, most folks these days expect to see Computer Generated Imagery  - and plenty of it.  This film is the first in which CGI was used for *all*  the special effects in a feature film (Tron used bits and pieces here and  there; Young Sherlock Holmes had one scene).  The technical accomplishment,  even given what we're used to seeing these days, is truly astounding.

The  film does have a couple of weaknesses.  The villains aren't really well  developed - in fact, carboard cutouts may as well have been used, for all  the depth these characters display.  Some of the plot devices are pretty  ludicrous as well, and some of the minor characters do odd things for no  readily explainable reason.  Oh, well.

To end on a positive note,  however, I ought to add that some of the minor characters - particularly  the denizens of the trailer park - are quite well done.  Catherine Mary  Stewart (Maggie), Barbara Bosson (Alex's mom), and Vernon Washington  (Otis) provide a very human aspect to the film.  Alex's little brother  Louis is amusing in a bratty way, and provides the single best line of the  entire movie, the last line: "Wo-ow!"

So, I recommend this  flick as a fun film, not requiring a lot of thought or phillosophical  reflection.  Pop some corn, sit down, and enjoy.