Most of the reviews so far fail to make these points: if you have not yet seen other films by Bresson (such as Diary of a Country Priest) or by certain other austere and difficult directors (Tarkovksy of The Mirror comes to mind), you will probably be wasting your money if you buy this one--rent it or get it from your library.

Second, it helps to know that Bresson thinks of actors as "models" and not as vehicles for plot and character development; they deliver their lines (what few they have!) in a largely emotionless way, the result, evidently, of repetition to the point where the lines are uttered almost unconsciously.

Third, Bresson views almost all of what most people call "movies" as merely filmed versions of the theater--in other words, the typical movie for Bresson is nothing more than a kind of play that happens to have been filmed. He believes that what he pointedly calls "cinema" must do something different in order to find its real potential as art: namely, the true art of film lies in the creation of meaning through the juxtaposition of images. (I don't think I know what he means, but that's what he says--all of this is in the excellent 1966 French television show that accompanies the DVD and that viewers MUST watch after the film itself.)

My own experience: I was both frustrated and fascinated by the film but was glued to it despite its lack of narrative arc or traditional emphasis on cause and effect. I do find Bresson's bleak take on human nature in this film too dark (and I am not particulary sunny myself on human nature) but am drawn to further consider Balthazar, and other Bresson films, in the future. In fact, I woke up the next day immediately thinking about Balthazar and am still thinking about the film two weeks later.

To rate such a film is, in a sense, both foolish and beside the point. It is not "enjoyable" in any normal sense and yet it is clearly a masterpiece in the way that many works of modern art are. You really have to be prepared to approach it as an aesthetic and intellectual challenge and to try to understand how meaning might emerge from the juxtaposition of filmed images. Oh, and did I mention that the donkey might be a Christ figure?