If you're looking for a super scary nightmare movie then this is not for you.  Childs Play is a funny but still scary movie.  The whole idea of it is that a man that is going to go to hell, puts his soul into a doll so that he can still live.  The dolls name is Chucky, and he is trying to kill a little boy named Andy so he can put his soul into him.

There are four main characters: Chucky, Andy, the Mother and the Detective.

Chucky is a good guy doll.  He was given to Andy by his mother for his 6th birthday.  First he kills Andy's aunt, who he throws out of the kitchen window.  Later on in the movie, Andy's Mother is looking in the good guy box that chucky came in, and she finds the package of batteries.  She looks in Chucky, and he is talking and living without them.  So later on, Chucky kills his friend who taught him how to do the powers and the spell to put him self into the body's.

Andy is a six year old boy that is always running and having to watch out for Chucky.  After his aunt gets thrown out of the window, he stays a few days at the police station for some counseling.  Everywhere he goes, Chucky follows him.  He is a very brave boy.

Andy's Mother does not believe that chucky is real in the beginning.  She thinks that Andy is making everything up.  Whenever she finds out the truth about chucky, she throws him into a fire and burns him.  Now chucky does not die, but he does get burnt to a crisp.  Now everyone thinks that the mother is crazy.

The Detective is the person that originally killed Charles, the man that put himself into Chucky.  The Detective does not believe Andy or the Mother, until Chucky almost kills him in his car.  The detective has to do whatever he can to keep Chucky from not killing Andy.

This movie is rated R.  So I would recommend it to kids probably 10 and older.  Because  it is not that scary.  My friend and I thought it was a great movie, and we got scared at some scenes, but it was still funny.  I would advise you to watch Childs Play 1 before you watch 2 or 3.  Because it explains what the plot is and what happened to Chucky.

Overall I would give it a five.  There are some scenes that are hilarious, and some that are so scary you can't even look at the T.V. set.  But that is what makes it so good, because it has variety.