You know that a TV show is good when you end up watching more episodes than you planned to.  For myself, I realized how brilliant Paranoia Agent was when I sat down to watch the first episode and ended up watching the whole disc before getting up again.  My only regret is not having the other three discs (and unfortunately, being out of print, they're apt to be rather expensive to acquire).

The plot of the series nominally revolves around Lil' Slugger/Shounen Bat (depending on which version you watch, English or Japanese), a mysterious roller-skating boy who appears out of nowhere with a dented baseball bat to club people with severe mental distress of various kinds, an act which most of them seem to find oddly cathartic.  However, while Slugger/Bat and the detectives hunting him provide an overarching plot that links the series together, the focus (at least in these early episodes) is on his victims, and the circumstances that lead up to their encounter with him.  We get to know a young designer for an ad agency struggling to follow up her first runaway success, an elementary school student whose life falls apart when he goes from the school's most popular student to its most despised, a woman with dissociative identity disorder who is at war with her other personality, and a corrupt cop facing mounting pressure from his yakuza connections.

Now, it is important to note that this series is not for everybody.  It is incredibly weird--no other word for it.  It follows its characters' mental breakdowns, without mercy for the viewer, to their logical ends, which range from the slightly off to the utterly bizarre.  And that's if you get past the creepy, unsettling opening credits for each episode.  (I have never seen the image of people simply standing and laughing seem so... wrong.)

Basically, if you like things that make a lot of sense to them or have a clear point, turn your attentions elsewhere.  But if you like odd works of art that bend your mind, then you could do much worse than Paranoia Agent.