A fascinating story emphasizing the importance of  tolerance.  The script holds up nicely despite being over fifty years old except for intermittent scenes which suggest some of the dialogue has become a bit outdated.  However, the powerful theme will live from here to eternity.  The film most obviously concentrates on the ugliness of anti-semitism but it also contains several messages of the more subtle variety.  Gregory Peck turns in a memorable performance as a media man who encounters much hatred while pretending to be Jewish.  It's definitely worth noting that much of the anit-semitism experienced by Hollywood actors during this period was actually caused by Jewish men who were concerned about their own careers after having advanced to lofty positions in the motion picture industry where they could inflict a unique brand of oppression.  Many of these Jewish men enjoyed large salaries, and didn't want to part with their money.  The trick centered around changing one's last name, thereby concealing one's true ancestory.  It's the same or similar problem (to a lesser  extent) experienced by the Afro American community when criminals commit crimes against their "brothers" (statistically, Afro Americans murder mostly their own race).  The film was undoubtedly shocking in its day, largely due to the strong acting, especially the superb performance from Dorothy McGuire (of "Spiral Staircase", "Friendly Persuasion" and "Summer Magic" fame) who inadvertantly becomes part of Peck's problem by her unintentional but insensitive behavior and comments.  The plot thickens as the main character (Peck) experiences well meaning individuals who seem to genuinely like him personally, but are not strong enough to overtly address the deep rooted hatred of Jews as a "people".  It is similar and pertinent to relatively modern times when good hearted people with multi-generation ancestory in the United States try to enjoy friendships with individuals of much different racial or ethnic backgrounds.  Many of these personal relationships are genuine with the best of intentions only to discover that extended family members within the newcomer or cultural minority's family have attitudes and characteristics that are much more typical, and much less likely to result in compatibility.  "Gentleman's Agreement" is about expanding one's horizons and perspective, and also suggests we should give up any residue of hatred as an ultimate solution.  For example, some cultures think nothing of smelling melons and other items at the local fruit stand to help determine if the particular piece of food is ripe.  Seeing nose hairs brush against the consumable item is highly offensive and typically not well understood or accepted in American culture.  It may seem benign or somewhat silly but it reflects what happens when an individual who is "different" is finally accepted while an entire race or culture is NOT! The "gentleman's agreement" becomes NOT to discuss that such thought processes exist, and are indeed presently occurring! It is not easy to discuss that your culture of people speaks a harsher sounding dialect or is flat noisier or louder. Furthermore, the "gentleman's agreement" includes the unwritten (and perhaps unspeakable) "bylaw" that I may like certain things about you, but I would never admit hating the fact that your race or culture of people has immigrated and/or are now living here!  After all, it's much easier to interact among those with whom we are most familiar!  Any doubts that "Gentleman's Agreement" is less than a "5-star" movie are erased by the fact that the movie still provokes deep levels of discussion among future generations for which it undoubtedly wasn't even targeting!  DVD quality is excellent, and much better than expected.  It is well worth the purchase!