Warning: Contains major spoilers!!!

Im not a completely 100 percent practical kind of person. I love romanticism, mythology, and anything whimsical, insightful and deep. But even so, I must say...What the hell is going on here exactly???

Throughout most of the movie, I harbored feelings of sorrow and understanding for this boy, turned teen, turned man, who knew only what seemed to be pure misery in his life. He was lonely to the extreme. He was unintentionally, destructively breaking down his mentality by his way of thinking and perception. And as demented as it sounds, I even went as far as to completely understanding why he would do something like what he did. I could relate to alot of the sadness and means of wanting, and hoping for, in his life.

It was very different, and I really started liking the movie itself, and the idea of digging into the core of this misunderstood madman, yet  coldhearted jaded ruthless killer, who didnt know what love was, but wanted to be loved by a world that didn't love him.

But wait, I didnt finish.

When it started drawing near the conclusion, I was apologizing to my mom for making her rent it, and we were both quite completely lost.

Alright. Jean Baptise is sentenced to crucifixtion. Understandable. He comes out to face his death sentence, waves his little white napkin (with the scent of his perfume) around, and everyone in this city falls to their feet, calls him " the angel" and claims that he is "innocent" after killing alot of very innocent girls. The whole town has an orgy around him while he is contemplating his thoughts on a platform in the middle of them. Huh?

Wow. From there it was beginning to look like a horny college guy's dream. It wasnt even remotely realistic at all. I mean what the hell? Could you have atleast provided alternative endings, where one ending makes sense, instead of having only one that doesn't at all? A murderer is NOT going to be getting out of a scheduled crucifixation because he has invented the perfect smell. Hundreds of middle aged people are not going to have sex out in public around him because he smells good or even perfect. I cannot even fathom that. Nobody alive is that forgiving....No family of a deceased person would say, "Oh yeah, dont worry about our daughter. She died for a good cause. Just let me have a whiff of that concoction and we'll call it even."

At the end, everything was so exaggerated.

Meanawhile, One high class father, of one of the girls Jean Baptiste kills, falls to his knees and out of the blue calls Jean his son... Because he smells good? I don't know. Mr Jean Baptiste seems to have the ability to control the world with this perfume. Does it explain further? No. Does it show said high class father anymore? No. Does it show high class father and Jean hugging in delighted glee to give audience clues to understanding if they are really father and son? No.

Wait, wait thats NOT EVEN the most nonsensical part. Nope.

Jean travels back to the place he was born while another guy gets convicted and hung for something he did not do. When Jean gets to his hometown, he  pours the perfume all over his head and gets devoured (as in eaten) in front of my eyes (I'm about 95 percent sure that it was cannibalistically) by his fellow neighbors.

Then it fades out to black and credits come on. Hmm.

Big Question mark.

Ive tried to think of ways that this whole story would come together under these circumstances, but I cant. Nothing makes sense.

It was so disappointing. Started off so good, then PLOP... we are off in a weird, demented, version of a bad and confused Alice in Wonderland, 18th century France setting, on crack.

I am personally wondering how this movie got so many good ratings. Perhaps nobody bothered to see the end.