Much Ado About Nothing was a movie that, at first, did appeal to me, but had lost its fun plot and amusement as the story went on. The play itself, I'm sure, must be a very amusing story as a theatrical performance, but the movie has killed its purpose of Although it was another one of Shakespeare's original plays, and a comedy at that, the cast of actors chosen for this play were poorly chosen, the acting was over the top, and it just did not make me believe the story could be true.

The actors that were chosen to play in this movie were horrible. Even Denzel Washington, who I think is a great actor, and a remarkable person, is not the right kind of person to stoop so low as to doing this movie with other amateur actors. Also, I don't believe that in the Elizabethan times, they would have accepted an African American to perform in their plays, as they probably didn't even let women perform. I took the acting of Hero's new husband very offensively. He seriously killed the movie. He somewhat reminded me of that actor Orlando Bloom from the movie troy, he was a big sissy. Keanu Reeves, I'm just going to put it short, the worst acting of his career, he should be sent to prison for doing this movie.

The acting for this movie was very over the top. Some actors and actresses went to far in trying to act, that it just bothered me and made me want to go deaf and blind. I couldn't stand seeing modern people that are not in a black and white movie act so Elizabethan. The performance after the accusation of Hero's loss of virginity was a mess of a scene. Hero was crying like someone was killing her, and her accusers were yelling at the top of their lungs like they wanted to bite someone's head off. The whole movie was full of these kinds of things. Punishing sex is so clich&eacute; in these kinds of old fashioned movies that it made me sick in my stomach and bored.

Overall this was a horrible, extremely boring movie. To be honest, even though I fell asleep during a large portion of this movie due to my boredom, it was still a waste of time as I woke up half an hour later. The movie was horrible, the play I bet is just as bad, though I don't want to blame Shakespeare for the mistakes that the producers and directors of this movie made. But it was still one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I give it two thumbs down.