I went into Cars with not very high expectations. I don't know why considering Pixar has a perfect batting average when it comes to making good films. Perhaps it was the unbelievably high amount of negative reviews I was reading about the film. In the end, I think this was a good thing as it allowed me to watch a movie that would surpass my expectations, and I love it when a movie is better than I expect.

The first thing you need to know about Cars is that it's an abstract fantasy. Much of the criticism I hear is about how the film's setting doesn't make sense logically. Here we have a world populated by cars which feature accomodations such as doors and seats for humans that don't exist. I find this a silly thing to get hung up on as it has no bearing on the story of the film which uses personified cars as clever characterizations of people.

The film opens up strong and engages you right from the beginning. I hate NASCAR, but I had no problem enjoying the visuals of the film's openning race that would serve to tell the motive of the main character, Lightning McQueen, as well as set up the conflict he would have to overcome.

The story itself is completely unoriginal and full of cliche, but this does not detract much from the film. Even if feel at points that you've been there, seen that, you really haven't due to the interesting twist of the movie's unique setting (cars instead of people in case you haven't been following along). You also haven't seen this story (Doc Hollywood) done so well. Were this a serious drama, the cliche and stereotypes that are rampant in the film would be a negative, but as a comedy they only add to the film's characterization of Americana and society.

The pleasure in this film isn't wondering what's going to happen next. In deed, the film is entirely predictable, but fitting to the theme of the movie it's a great ride. Lightning McQueen starts off as a hot shot racing car celebrity who ends up trapped in a small town and ends up learning what's important in life. The pleasure is in watching the growth and development of the main character on his journey to enlightenment (read: not being a self-centered, egotistical moron) and all the encounters with the story's other denizens along the way.

Much like Ellen Degeneres did in Finding Nemo, Larry the Cable Guy steals the show as the lovable tow truck named Mater. You don't have to be a fan to appreciate his performance. And Luke Wilson has become a master at making the unlikable-ignorant-jerk likable.

I'm not sure how much children will enjoy this film. It's slow in parts much like The Incredibles was, but unlike that film it doesn't have the big action scenes as pay off. The film is definately good for kids and teaches morals such as 'it's not whether you win or lose but how you play that matters.' However, the overall story seems more aimed at adults. Still, I didn't hear any kids complaining at my trip to the theatre so don't be concerned about taking them.

Pixar returns to it's roots with the same style film as Toy Story 1 & 2. It also keeps with it's tradition of being an impeccable movie studio that never fails to impress. Cars is another homerun for the studio and easily one of the best films of the year.