Paper Heart is a quirky little treasure of a (semi-reality) film for closet romantics everywhere. I won't add my synopsis of this Sundance Film Festival mockumentary to those found in each of the other reviews here, except to paraphrase from the Paper Heart website - Paper Heart follows Charlyne Yi on a quest across America to make a documentary about Love, the one subject she "doesn't understand".

The thing is, who does? That's probably why so many of us are definitely looking for it in all the wrong places. Ask almost any two people anywhere (except maybe those ubiquitous dang twins separated at birth who are absolutely alike in every possible way and then hey! Guess what, turns out, they're twins) what love means, or if they've ever been, or really, any other question relating to the concept and you will get two different and potentially opposite answers. Everyone wants to be (well except for those pesky misanthropic types) "in" love; or at least to love and/or be loved. Love is probably the single most motivating force for good and evil that has ever swept across every single centimeter of our little planet.

So what makes Paper Heart, and Charlyne's quest worth the 88 minutes of your/mine/our time? The low-key comedic presence of Charlyne herself, and that of Jake M. Johnson as the director, Nicholas Jasenovec. Charlyne plays to the camera, even when she is miserable, and even though we know that she knows that we know it's a *mock*umentary, she is absolutely engaging and honestly just plain funny. I ended up thinking that the director was actually crushing on Charlyne.

Extras include hilarious "interviews" with a long list of "friends", including Demetri Martin and Seth Rogen, and there are some swell scenes in the film itself, and in the extras, of Charlyne talking to a group of kids on an Atlanta playground. One of the film elements that especially captured my husband's attention was the use of funny little paper puppets. Although he said he felt at times Paper Heart was a bit boring, he kept waiting for those little puppets to make their next appearance.

If you only like action-packed shoot-em-ups, then no, you won't like this. But if you like any movie that is well-made within its genre, or like Cher, you simply "believe in love", give it a try.