Rush's most recent live album/DVD R30, which was released in November of 2005, is a must for all Rush fans.
Recorded and filmed during the band's 30th anniversary tour in Frankfurt, Germany in September of 2004, I saw the band outside Boston, MA a month before this concert was filmed (was my fourth time I had seen Rush, have seen them every tour since Counterparts) and this DVD brings me back to that night. What great showmen/performers the three wise men of Rush are!
Bass player/singer/keyboard player Geddy Lee, guitarist Alex Lifeson and drummer Neil Peart get better with age I tell you.
The first DVD/CD starts with an opening animated movie which had all of their album covers come alive and Jerry Stiller (father of actor Ben) asking where Rush is and BANG we begin with "The R30 OVERTURE" (which consisted of teasers of Finding My Way, Anthem, Bastille Day, A Passage to Bangkok, Cygnus X-1 and Hemispheres) and just rocked, what a way to kick off an awesome CD/DVD. Next is a spirited "The Spirit of Radio". Next is possibly the best version of "Force Ten". Next is a slightly shorter "Animate" which is a great version. "Subdivisions" is next and a great live reading which is better than the Show of Hands version by a LONGSHOT. "Earthshine" is next and is a great number. Next is "Red Barchetta" and rivals the version on Exit...Stage Left. Next is "Roll the Bones" and just rocks. Missing I know from first set is Bravado, YYZ and The Trees (they are on Rush in Rio DVD) but c'est la vie! Next is a stellar cover of The Who classic "The Seeker". The first set closer One Little Victory (with dragon film/pyro) is missing but you can't have them all. Next is the dragon TV surfing before settling on the full Darn That Dragon film (I always laugh watching this) and we go into "Tom Sawyer" which kicked off the second half of the show. "Dreamline" is next and is a great version (and ends the first CD). Secret Touch would have followed but is absent but you can't have it all.
We then have a stellar version of the deep track "Between the Wheels" (which kicks off CD #2) and is a great song. Next is the song "Mystic Rhythms" which is a great version and decimated the Show of Hands version. The next song in show Red Sector A is missing but it's on Rush in Rio which brings us to "Der Trommler" which is Neil's eight and a half minute drum solo which shows he is one drummer who gets better with age (he is still the drum GOD today!!!). Next is an unplugged "Resist" which is very good. Following that is "Heart Full of Soul" which is a great version of The Yardbirds classic. Next is 1/2 of "2112" consisting of Overture/Temples of Syrinx (Geddy changes the end line to We Are the Pirates sung in pirate voice)/Grand Finale and killer. La Villa Strangiato (with humorous Alex rant) and By-Tor and the Snow Dog are missing but Rush didn't want to have repeats though some complain that they do. We then go into "Xanadu" which is a good six minute reading of the Farewell to Kings classic cut. "Working Man" follows and is a great version and I like the reggae bit before the song ends. "Summertime Blues" is next and rocks followed by a spirited "Crossroads" and ending with a killer "Limelight" (and ending Jerry Stiller movie).
The Second DVD consists of rare promos and performances which are the Church Session video for Fly by Night from 1975, 2 mpegs videos of In The Mood and Finding My Way from Don Kirshner's Rock Concert in 1974, live in the studio performances of Circumstances and La Villa Strangiato, the 1977 promo fims of A Farewell to Kings and Xanadu, a sound check version of The Spirit of Radio from Ivor Wynne Stadium in 1979, Freewill from the Toronto SARS benefit in 2003 and lastly Closer to the Heart (with one of The Barenaked Ladies and Bubbles from The trailer Park Boys) from the Canadian Tsunami Relief show in 2005. Also, many interviews from 1979, 1980, 1990 and 2002 plus Rush's 1994 induction into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame (in full with soundbytes from Chris Cornell, Mike Myers, Sebastian Bach and many others).
Also on deluxe edition, you get a 16-page booklet plus two Rush guitar picks and a backstage pass from the R30 show [R30 : sticker].
Don't get the 2-DVD, go for the DELUXE EDITION! This was the best release of 2005!