I've seen Apocalypse Now a number of times and own the original. Redux was my first opportunity to see the film in a theater, and for providing that experience alone, Redux easily deserves five stars. It's unfortunate that great films aren't re-released more often to theaters in restored prints, much like music is routinely digitally remastered and re-released on CD. If it takes the re-editing gimmick of Redux to bring the film back to theaters, then so be it.
Like certain great films (Lawrence of Arabia comes to mind), Apocalypse Now was truly made for a widescreen, surround-sound experience that only a good film print and theater can provide. See it this way and you'll be grateful for the experience.
That said, in my opinion Redux falls short of the original. The long French plantation scene is too talky (much of it in French) and distracts from the vortex that is the trip up the river to Kurtz. The river trip structurally mirrors the similar trip in Conrad's "Heart of Darkness" and desperately needs to survive as the clear spine of the film. The French plantation scene could have survived in 1/2 its running time more effectively, or have been cut altogether without harming the film. (There are certainly a few decent lines in the dinner scene, but the digression overall takes the viewer out of the central movie plot and out of the visceral experience of moving up river.) The music accompanying the superfluous bedroom scene is also ludicrous and out of place.
The extension of the Kilgore scene involving Willard stealing the surfboard similarly disrupts the film. The original ended on Kilgore's famous "love the smell of napalm in the morning" lines, which are so devastating that almost anything else to follow in that scene would be a distraction. To cut to goofball action involving stealing the surfboard and shots of Willard giggling and falling down is a true failure in editing.
Unlike some reviewers, I thought the second Playboy bunny scene did improve the film, providing some good character development for two of the men and a further demonstration of the complete degradation of U.S. ambitions and morality in Viet Nam, mirrored in the movie plot. The "bad acting" of the women here is appropriate, if cruel; we're seeing limited minds at work here, among all four characters in the helicopter.
The remaining alterations were minor. If anything, I was surprised by how *little* changed in the movie, considering Redux was supposedly a complete re-edit from the original source footage. If this is the best Coppola &amp; Co. can come up with from 20 years reflection and 150 hours of source footage, this is more evidence than anyone needs that the original is a masterpiece that should be left alone. Buy the original.