I have to admit the trailers for the movie made it look quite funny but stupid at the same time and I thought it was going to be really bad.  I had been telling people Andy Samberg was going to be the next SNL member to break out.  After all, he is an Emmy winner for "D$%# in a box." I grew up watching a slew of bad movies on cable, but they were great to me.  Now so many movies are trying to emulate and copy the formula of 80s movies.  Part of the greatness was the clothes, the hair and the music.  Almost the entire soundtrack to this movie is made up of songs by Europe, a group that was made fun of even in their own time.  This movie has my kind of humor all the way through.  A great movie is made up of many memorable scenes that are cohesively edited together into a whole.  The plot of the movie is razor thin, but aren't all the movies that SNL actors make?  Don't go into this movie thinking Shakespeare and well written dialog that will make you think.  The comedy is straight to the point as a punch in the face.  Just think about cheesy 80s movies and their plight.  They were simple stories about a kid trying to help his brother because his bike was trashed by thugs, or trying to rescue his Dad from Russians, just outlandish plots that in no way would ever be as dramatic as they made them.  The movie is about a grown man wanting to raise enough money to get his stepdad a heart transplant so he will regain his strength and then that grown man may be able to beat up his stepdad fair and square and get him to admit he loves him.  That is just funny in and of itself and to wrap an entire movie around that weak premise is comedic genius.  What do we get in this movie?  An 80s dance/fight montage.  A music video edited type scene with two brothers saying "Cool beans" back and forth.  And the best of all is when Rod calls upon the power of the animals to help him garner enough strength for his stunts, and what animals does he call?  Eagle, fox, bottle-nosed dolphin, octopus and house cat.  Random and effective.  Underlying the stupidity is brilliance.