Having only previously seen the theatrical release on VHS, I was pleased with the movie on a whole. Sure, the plot is a little meandering from NTIs (the aliens) to maniacal military foes, but it's all in for good fun. 
I  don't think of the Director's Cut as the panacea for some of the plot's  discontinuities, but it certainly is an improvement. It clarifies many  issues from the theatrical release, not through direct answers but subtle  references. The wave sequence really changes the theme of the movie to a  criticism of society, in that we're too busy trying to kill each other.  These few minutes alter the ending (and the overall feeling of the movie)  very much so from the theatrical release, and they are definitely for the  better. 
The real appeal of this DVD set lies in the amount of extras  presented; so many that 2 discs are needed, though both are single-sided.  Movie trailers, two Making-Of features, many short reels on effects takes,  pop-up commentaries, will give the viewer more appreciation for the movie  he has just seen. As of the writing of this review, excluding some  Criterion Edition DVDs, this has the best extras quality and quantity-wise.  
As for picture/sound quality, it has only a few flaws. The picture is  excellent, but the sound is a little subdued in parts and just plain soft  in some sections. This is only a minor flaw however, and does not detract  from the viewing experience unless you concentrate on finding the flaws  (which you should NEVER do). Alan Silvestri's score captures the mystery of  the deep with the oohs and aahs of the chorus, as well as the military  motif of the slowly-turning-insane Coffey. This score ranks up with  Predator as one of his best. 
So, a good movie is made better by the  inclusion of the director's cut and a plethora of extras.  With only minor  sound issues, this DVD will stand out for quite some time. All in all, a  great effort by Fox on this DVD; I don't believe they left out anything,  excepting an isolated score. The sheer mass of extras more than make up for  a less-than-perfect sound transfer. I'd give this whole thing 4.5 stars,  but I'll round up :)