"MANHUNTER" is a 5 star film that has yet to receive the treatment it deserves. Technically speaking, this new DVD gets 3 stars, which is a big step up from the 1 star treatment it got in 2002. I'll dispense with the superlatives about Michael Mann's screenplay and direction and the performances of William Peterson, Tom Noonan and Brian Cox and concentrate on the merits of this new DVD edition. I became familiar with this film from a taped broadcast from The Movie Channel back in 1987 which Mann also reworked from the original theatrical release by adding the same footage included in this new edition. The only difference is the deletion of a scene in which Graham has a brief interview with the director of the institution in which Dr.Lecktor is imprisoned. In that scene, Graham becomes irritated when asked about his ability to get inside of Lecktor's fantasies. It's not an important scene, but it does help convey Graham's discomfort with the talent that makes him such an asset to the FBI. The scenes which Mann added both to that TMC release and this new edition are welcome improvements.
  There is a notice at the beginning of this edition advising that some of the footage is of less than optimum quality due to some inferior source material for scenes that were not included in the theatrical version.  That's an understatement. The image quality through 95% of this film is very good. However, several shots are of VHS quality and a few look like they were shot through cheesecloth. In the director's commentary, Mann explains this dissapointing result. But it's by far the best version available. Especially since the 2 versions released by Anchor Bay in 2002(the same distributor responsible for this new edition)are so awful.
  How many fans of this film noticed that the theatrical version released in 2002, which claimed to be widescreen, was not? I thought something looked strange, so I compared it to the tape I'd made from TMC 15 yrs. prior, which was of course in standard full screen (1.33:1) format. I found that the left &amp; right borders of the image stopped at exactly the same point and that image which appeared at the top and bottom of the frame of the VHS was covered by the black bars on the DVD. I was amazed &amp; appalled; they'd taken a full screen original and plastered black bars over the top &amp; bottom and pawned it off as widescreen. The Director's Cut that was simultaneously released had the worst image quality I've ever seen on DVD. I returned my copy for a refund.
  This new edition actually is widescreen. The extras are only so-so. There's the usual theatrical trailer and production stills. Michael Mann's commentary is interesting at times, but doesn't provide much insight into the movie making experience. Unless forgotten original film negatives of the added scenes are found in some studio storeroom, it's unlikely that there will ever be a better version of this excellent film. In spite of the technical flaws, this disc is a must-have for any "avid fan".