In 1996, "Jingle All The Way" became another Christmas classic. The movie is a perfect choice for the whole family to watch. Arnold Schwarzenegger has done it again. He has done thrillers, action films, comedies and now even family movies. No matter what kind of movie he has done in the past he has always made it a MASTERPIECE!
The movie starts out with Howard (Schwarzenegger) as a distracted businessman who hasn't paid much attention to his son lately. His son Jamie (Lloyd) is really excited about Christmas coming up and desperately along with every kid in the city wants one thing for Christmas: A Turbo Man doll. Every child has been begging their parents to buy it. Even though his wife Liz (Watson) told him to buy it a month ago, he FORGOT!! 
Now it's Christmas Eve and he decides then to go buy the most popular toy on the market. Luckily so he don't look stupid, dozens of of other parents are doing the same thing. Now at the first store, they are SOLD OUT! Then one store after the other and the other and NOTHING!! Then he finds out that one store just got a late delivery of Turbo Man dolls and they are having a lottery to see who gets one first. So they whole crowd goes crazy after all the number balls are thrown in the air. He fights a mailmain (Sinbad) for number 2. He loses his ball. Then a mall Santa Claus convinces him that they have Turbo Man dolls to sell him. He follows the guy to his secret facility. He actually pays $300 for a doll and opens the box and it is all broken. They ARE CONARTISTS!! After all the trouble he's been through he starts punching everyone. He fights migit Santa's and even 7' giants. 
Finally, after being chased my a cop, he accidenlty hides in the dressing room for the people in the parade. They think he is the replacement for the Turbo Man actor that goes on the parade float. So he finally gets his hand on a turbo man and now see what happens next. Will Jamie get this Turbo Man doll or NOT?
If you are a big Christmas fan, this is the next piece to add to your Christmas collection. Merry Christmas!! Ho, Ho, Ho!! Jingle All The Way!!