Marvel has great movies.  DC is starting to have great movies.  DC has some of the best animated tv shows.  I love the Batman animated straight to DVD movies, and recently The Batman vs. Dracula animated film.  When I heard about Ultimate Avengers I was excited to see Marvel coming into the light of great animated films.  I was wrong.  What a disapointment this movie is.  Although a good film for any comic book fan, but not great.  Marvel animation needs work.  The animated shows they put out in the 90's were good.  Spider-Man: the new animated series (MTV) was fantastic.  What went wrong?  If Marvel is trying to compete with DC in the animation genre then they have A LOT of work ahead.

Here's what I thought worked:  It's the Avengers.  I'm a Avenger fan so the time for an Avenger movie (even if it's animated) is over due.  great!

Here's what I thought didn't work:  Everything else.  The quality of the animation is just not good.  Nowhere near the animated quality of Teen Titans, Justice League Unlimited, and Spider-Man: New Animated Series.  Even The Batman animation is better and I don't like the way they character design.  Marvel should of picked the classic Avengers line up.  Where was Thor in his red cape and winged helmet. Where was She-Hulk, Hawkeye, Vision, Scarlet Witch, Black Knight?  The team that made up THE AVENGERS.  I like the Ultimate Avengers, but they shouldn't of picked that version of the team for the start of their animated line up.  Ultimate Avengers is dark and mature.  This film is light and family based.  Much like the original team.

What also didn't work is the voices they picked.  They sounded generic and dry.  I thought none of the voices matched the characters.  Thor's accents was just terrible.

where was the plot?  It didn't have one.  I understand it was character development and introduction to the team, but where was the plot?  There was this alien invasion coming, so Nick Fury had to gather the earth's mightiest heros to stop them.  This battle lasted all of about 1 chapter.  The climax of the film came when the Avengers battled the Hulk.

Some of the fight scenes with the Hulk were good.  I think Justice League Unlimited and Teen Titans have better fight scenes.  Marvel needs to watch those and take some notes.

I would recommend renting before buying.  $14 in stores is a waste of money.  if you can find the film for $10 or less, buy it.  I'm going to buy when it drops in price so I can add it to my Comic/Superhero library.  Like I said, if you're a fan then you'll enjoy it, but you'll walk away a little disappointed.