I don't have the DVD for this anime, but I have seen the anime itself a couple of times. Hey c'mon now, the anime's DVD features isn't what's important here, but rather, the anime itself overall.
What can we say about, X? I'd say, it's definitely not for the discretion of the weak. Everything in this anime is geared towards adults. The story-telling, the character personas and the art/scene portrayals. This is one animation that is truly sadistic and depressive...in a great point of concept and perspective. It's just like watching your favorite day-to-day soap opera or a full-length romance film, only it adds a sinister twisted elements of betrayal, agony and violence.
X, tells the story about a young boy who must decide the fate of Earth and of humans; He could either destroy it, or spare and save this corrupted world. Kamui Shirou, the protagonist, has been away and hasn't seen the only 2 people (and closefriends) he ever cares about for 6 years. He made a promise to protect and love them no matter what through eternity. And just who are these 2 individuals Kamui loves? Fuuma and Kotori Monou, 2 siblings who has known Kamui ever since they were little kids.
6 yrs. later, Kamui returns to Tokyo to fulfill his destiny and to prepare for this menacing threat he was foretold about. But that's not the worst part of it... For Kamui Shirou, it's himself. It's his soul's matter of 'fate vs. faith', being thorned apart by his own will and destiny...leading to his eventual loneliness in the end. Along with Kamui are these other psionic characters who also wields the vigorous potentials of psychokenesis, being able to come into people's mind and their dreams, freezing time and so fort. Definitely cool and unique fictional characters with super-unatural powers.
The movie version from my opinion, only summarizes what the anime's storyline/plot is really about. But there's a few missing puzzles there and you can only understand it by watching the television series (X/1999) including characters not in the movie and an even more detailed story. The movie isn't that bad, except maybe for the bad English-dubbing part?