I'm an avid fan of black metal, and basically all types of metal. I've followed it closely for many years so I know almost all the "ins & outs" of the genre. I've also seen practically every black metal documentary or movie released. What makes this one stand out for me are a few things. First, this was released in theaters around the world, albeit limited cities. It features rare interviews with "elusive" characters such as Kristian "Varg" Vikernes, Gylve "Fenriz" Nagell and Jan Axel "Hellhammer" Blomberg.  They rarely grant interviews and haven't appeared in documentaries prior to this one, perhaps Hellhammer appeared in on documentary but briefly.  So this film has a sort of "exclusive" feel to it.

What shocked me most is the misguided anger of so many Norwegian youths during the early 90's and how much I DISLIKED some of the personalities featured here. I'm  very big fan of black metal, from many countries and undeniably from Norway as well and I never thought I would see them as "terrible" people despite the infamy. With Varg, you see a man who loves to victimize himself. He expresses how American culture became embraced in Norway as he grew up. That in his hometown of Bergen he saw the first McDonald's there open amongst other "bad" American companies popping up around Norway and pretty much everywhere around the world. How Christianity erased Norse/Pagan culture,etc. Supposedly these are the roots of his misplaced anger and rebellion.

First thing that you'll notice with Varg is that he's a very well spoken, charming, intelligent and even humorous guy. You don't get how this guy could be so deranged that he murdered someone in cold blood and committed various forms of ecclesiastical arson. But everyone has two sides to them and some display it much more than others. With Varg it's very obvious. He is no doubt THE most fascinating person featured in this film. He's been in prison for a long time and it's almost impossible to get anything from him. In some ways his band Burzum had an almost "past tense" like feel about it because he was out of commission for a long long time. But the things that make his music great are also what make him a bad person. He's an egotistical, arrogant, confused, contradicting, racist, prideful and hypocritical person. I don't believe even he knows why.

His explanation of the murder to make it look like Euronymous of Mayhem tried to kill him first was pathetic and sounded like he was just echoing what his lawyer told him to say. The truth of that story was revealed in other documentaries by other people close to them. Euronymous was no better a person than Varg up until his murder. He encouraged his band's lead singer "Dead" to kill himself and took pictures of his corpse with his head blown out. He ran a record label but barely had any money to pay the bands on it. He was possibly an even bigger egomaniac than Varg and he apparently made plenty of "death threats" to people he disliked or wanted to get out of his life or black metal community. While others have taken that as a opportunity to walk away, Varg took it as real threat. Someone said "you don't make threats to Varg and expect him to go away quietly." While that may have been the case, I also feel that Varg felt extreme jealousy and hatred towards Euronymous. Jealousy for being the "godfather of black metal" and the man who ran the show amongst the black metal circle. Hatred for the fact that while Euronymous talked a big show he didn't really walk the walk. Varg considered himself more "true" because he stood up and did things against society while the rest "talked" about it. He burnt churches and another killed a homosexual for pretty much no reason outside of homophobia. These men were considered "the real deal" in the circle while the leader "did nothing". So the comtempt was evident.

Which leads me to Hellhammer (drummer of Mayhem) who smiled and expressed "respect" to Bard Eithun (ex-drummer for Emperor) for killing a homosexual man because he made advances towards him. I couldn't believe he said it when I saw it and I just thought "what a scumbag!" I mean killing any person in cold blood is wrong and never deserves positive reinforcement from anybody. He really lost my respect and he could have used that moment to express disdain towards that particular incident. But he chickened out.

Fenriz supplied some much needed light-heartedness in the film. He's a very down to earth, seemingly genuine fella. From what I saw he simply just lives life like any normal person. His band Darkthrone haven't performed live since 1996 and uses it not as a form of income, but release from everyday life working in a post office. While I'm sure his band supplied him with enough money to live a luxurious lifestyle, he lives in an apartment and goes about life as if he's living from paycheck to paycheck. A very grounded person indeed. His story isn't as controversial or as intriguing as Varg's but a nice addition. You could almost say that this is the video companion to the book covering the Scandinavian black metal culture "Lord Of Chaos". Immortal's Abbath and Demonaz are featured unfortunately briefly in the film. But Abbath captured the general consensus of Varg Vikernes. "He f**cked up. He must have gotten a rush doing what he did. But now he's in jail and that must suck for him." Well said Abbath, well said.

Lastly, for the film to be truly perfect they needed to interview more people like Infernus (Gorgoroth), Gaahl (ex-Gorgoroth), Manheim (ex-Mayhem drummer), Ihsahn (Emperor) and Attila (Mayhem). They would have given us much more insight on the scene in the early 90's in Norway. But since anything covering black metal is scarce this is a must get, despite the flaws. Get the 2 DVD version as it has an extra 4 hours of footage and not aired interviews with Darkthrone's Nocturno Culto, Enslaved's Grutle Kjellson and many others.