This episode entails a standoff between a squad of the 3ID and a group of terrorists holed up in a mosque. Naturally, no one can forcibly move in because there's an Al-Jazeera reporter inside as well, and of course, being cautious to bad press just as there was in the Abu Gharib scandal, they stay outside waiting for the political climate to wear down before making their move. During this time, with sporadic gunfights, there is, somewhat, a development of each character. There's the NCO who's angry that he's forced to remain in Iraq for an additional 90 days to head up a "newbie" squad, Bo who's a natural leader, Dim who earned his nickname for being a Cornell student who dropped it all and ended up signing for the army (a move his comrades felt was stupid, hence his name), Angel who sings like one, another fellow who had a name I couldn't remember, Double-wide a female PvT, and Mrs. B who for most of the show isn't much of a character. The dialogue and action scenes are well worth watching in terms of entertainment, albeit it's pretty much as Hollywood as you can get.

Still, in the cliched-ness of it all, there echoes, some truth. The injuries that I won't specifically spoil, the anger of the prisoners who are captured near the end, the frustration at having your tour delayed so you can't go back home, and the cheating spouse situation. So for all this, why only three stars? Well at the end of the show I was satisfied enough, but there is a lot of room for improvement. I won't complain too much about the lack of realism, as it's supposed to serve as entertainment, so I'll deal with my disappointments regarding the show in that aspect. My beef is with the squad's behaviour. They were very unprofessional and a CO's job is to take care of his men/women, not to constantly yell at them. This isn't boot camp anymore, these people are trained for their jobs. To make them look as if they didn't know that they were doing (when realistically, members of the 3ID spent a month in Kuwait before entering this stage portrayed in the episode) was an insult. Most people don't say Sir post training as for the most part, people just say Sarge or something. Mrs. B played the damsel in distress who got easily defensive when a man tried to help her out even though she needed it. It was just sad to watch her play the typecast of a feminine soldier.

And the flagged mines should've caught their attention as for the most part, they would usually have someone looking out for that kind of thing. Sure, it adds to the story, so I'll forgive that, as accidents happen, but I just expected more from the pilot seeing as there was so much hype. Don't get me wrong, it's a show worth watching, but those who tend to scrutinze every detail, it might piss you off.

Still a worthy effort as it has in fact, humbled me more when I think of friends and loved ones I have serving. Good show for what it is, I hope it only gets better.