I love it when a movie doesn't spoon feed you perfect logic. I like to be slightly challenged with various situations that are open to interpretations. ( insert Tree of Life movie as #1 ) I can see why this movie has a "love it or hate it" response. I am torn with loving the visuals and the way it creates so many questions. But with that, I also hate that I have... SO MANY QUESTIONS with the events and characters. (not being able to cross the bridge? What was that all about?) Dunst's did an amazing job of acting ( insert Droopy Dog 'I'm Happy'. ) Her character's evolution of gloom, sadness and depraved depression was both disturbing and yet mesmerizing.

You will be flooded with symbolism, beautiful and romantic sadness and a buffet of character responses to different situations with a shaky camera. This movie had some fantastic moments, almost genius... brilliant and astonishing. There are lessons here to be learned in the layers of situations. How we as humans manipulate and have expectations of each other and how we react when those expectations aren't met. We realize that people are only and I mean ONLY being nice to you because they want something from you. ( that's right, honey badger don't give a #$@&! ). But seriously, what was the symbolism of the horse or the golf cart not crossing the bridge? Was there something symbolic of the limo being stuck on the curved road? Was the marriage a symbolism of failed unity and then the planets hitting one another a symbolism of destructive unity? What on earth was the mother wearing to the reception, a tie-dyed dress? How do a bunch of tree branches equate a magic cave? Why did one sister have an English accent and the other didn't? See, LOTS of questions. The song "When Worlds Collide" comes to mind. If you like simple movies that spoon feed you, you'll hate this film. This is a psychological roller coaster ride with some awesome visuals. I feel/think it is worth renting with some intellectual friends to chat about after viewing. Also, there are some great reviews on here (far better than mine).