There are so many problems with "Love Actually" that I don't know where to begin. There's the obvious. It's a Christmas movie devoid of any religious message, rather it revels in life's carnal appetites. One character flies to Milwaukee, Wisconsin  and ends up having group sex. Another couple meet on the set of a soft porn film, while other characters of this film have a Christmas cocktail party under giant posters of naked men and women covered strategically by Santa hats. Then there's the not so obvious,  Colin Firth's character, Jamie, learns basic Portuguese in less than a month. A young boy, Thomas Sangster,  learns to plays drums in less time than that. Then there's the whole Prime Minister business. None of it makes any sense, so why do I love this movie so much?

Let's start with the plot, and it's a loose one, it's five weeks before Christmas and a dozen or so people in London live out their lives over the holiday season. There's the newly elected Prime Minister played by Hugh Grant who's attracted to a worker in his office, there's the aging rock star, played brilliantly by Bill Nighy, trying to make a Christmas comeback, there's the husband (Liam Neeson) who just lost his wife and is struggling not to loose his connection with his son as well, then there's the business owner (Alan Rickman) who's contemplating an affair and so on and so forth. The stories operate, for the most part, independently but also interconnect, even if it's in some small way. It's a killer cast that pulls this off, aside from the above mentioned we are treated to performances from Emma Thompson, Keira Knightley, Laura Linney, Billy Bob Thornton, Rowan Atkinson, Elisha Cuthbert, and  Martin Freeman from BBC's "The Office'. The story and direction is brought to us by Richard Curtis, who's previous screen writing work includes, "Four Weddings and a Funeral" and "Notting Hill". "Love Actually" is his first foray into directing and though it's a tad uneven at times, Curtis pulls off a complicated maneuver by communicating these multiple stories while giving us a satisfactory, if not sometimes silly, conclusions to all of them.

The extras are decent, a number of deleted scenes fills in some of the questions a viewer might have after watching the finalized film, it makes me wonder if a director's cut isn't too far down the road. There's also a music video by Kelly Clarkson, who sang a song for the film. The commentary is enjoyable in a boys night out sort of way, as Richard Curtis, Bill Nighy, Hugh Grant and Thomas Sangster gather around the mike to laugh at Colin Firth's manly walk and lovingly acknowledge the physical attributes of some of the female cast.

The movie works mostly because there is no theme other than love. Love connects the characters, love is what's lost or won in the end, and love is what makes the audience relate. That's why we don't care that Thomas Sangster learns to play drums in two weeks. He's doing it for love. That's why Colin Firth learns Portuguese. Or why the Prime Minister is willing to make a fool out of himself. And it's why this movie has become a holiday tradition for me, it's just too bad I can't share it with my kids until they turn 17.