I seen The Wizard Many, Many Times.I loved the movie so much that i memorized Every single line that was said.My Favorite actor in the movie had to be christian slayter he really added the spice into his performance.Lines like:"What the hell am i doing here?" "Im sleeping with my father on some dump on the highway You dont  want me here Jesus cant even talk to each other!!" (Sam) Your in your underwear! (Nick) "I Cant believe it i cant even Speak to my own father mr. cheap skate gets us a room that doesnt have double bed!" That had to be my favorite line in the movie cracks me up. I also liked jenny lewis who plays haley she's cool i think she messed up on her line when her and fred were up on her roof of the house when fred tryed to kiss her and she said:"i know what you were trying to do and you can just forget about it! there is no way that im NOT kissing a boy" i dont think she was supposted to say that. but mistakes happen. and you will noice that when
you see the part where lucas is playing "Rad Racer" on the NES who wears the power glove you will see he isnt really playing with the glove. one of the kids are controlling it to seem like lucas is playing with the power glove but he moves his glove the same as the car in the game.Putnum was a good char. in the movie him and woods would battle it through the whole movie.The boy that was in the arcade when putnum asked him he was looking for a couple of kids and he says "this ones a Mintal case have you seen him?" the boy says "does he dress like you?" (No) he says "than he couldnt be much of a case alright?".To the parents who want to buy this movie for a son or daugher or even a grandson of the family BE WARNED that this movie has some language not for kids.overall its a really great piece of work the actors did a good job jimmy doesnt say much. only lines: "corey i dont want to quit!", "please spankey?", "Califorina!", "Jennifer!" "Bye Spankey!" the end of the movie i dont like but until they reach LA and to the contest that where i rewind it and watch it from the begining.I love listening to the song "Send Me An Angel" By Real Life...