I've had a lifelong fascination with radical groups. Religious heretics of the 11th century or the Jacobins in revolutionary France or the Symbionese Army, they all fascinate me. What drives them, what makes them fight against incredible odds, what makes them give up, it all fascinates me. Only recently has there been a serious body of work on the radicals of the 1960s that attempts to address these questions.

Green and Siegel's contribution to this is the documentary The Weather Underground, the story of how the ultra-militant Weatherman organization grew out of the non-violent SDS. Packed with interviews of many of the main characters - including Mark Rudd (of the Columbia U takeover fame), Bernardine Dohrn, Bill Ayers, Brian Flanagan and David Gilbert - and interspersed with period news footage the film provides a sense of the rage that fueled the Weathermen and the regret with which they now regard the past.

Which is not to say that the film is a mea culpa. Most of the interviewees are at pains to explain what they did and why it seemed the only thing to do at the time; not to ask for forgiveness. The interviewees seem so calm and reasonable you could forget what they're talking about which is essentially acts of terrorism and revolution.

There are moments of dark, unintentional humor along the way. Like the footage of the blonde, gum-chewing preppie who tells the reporter they're going to take on the police with "more physical confrontation, whatever's necessary", all the while snapping her Juicy Fruit. Or when Bernardine Dohrn's sister proclaims her actions "Right on and she's far out." I found myself sympathizing with the Black Panther spokesman who dismisses the Weathermen as "muddle-headed." For all their fierce beliefs, they seem to be playing at revolution, casting themselves in the role of revolutionaries based on what they've read rather than what they've experienced. Their efforts to turn themselves into a communist cadre never seem to rise much above leaving in communes, group sex and eating "oatmeal with nothing on it" and "psychological tricks" that one describes as "so cultish."

Yet their beliefs are not simply whims. Rudd and Jaffe speak convincingly of their conviction that doing nothing was a form of participating in the oppression they perceived. Each member made sacrifices to "go underground", a phenomenon one describes as a "state of information control." They saw themselves at war with an oppressive, murderous state and told themselves they were willing to do whatever it took to overthrow it.

And therein lies the rub. As ex-Weatherman Brian Flanagan puts it: "If you think you have the moral high-ground ... you can do some really terrible things." Those terrible things including bombings. It's quite something to see Ayers' and Dohrn's contortions to pat themselves on the back for making a big effort to make sure no one ever got hurt as a result of their bombings. There are several problems with that. First and foremost, once you set a bomb, all bets are off. No matter how many warnings you send out or precautions you take, one mistake or unanticipated action is likely to end in the death or dismemberment of another. All their efforts could have been undone by one act of bad luck. Second, this requires them to go to further contortions to distance themselves from the Greenwich Village townhouse explosion. Describing it as "an autonomous group in New York City" starts off the fun, as if the "group" in NYC had little connection to the rest of the Weatherman. The film includes quotes of regret from most of the interviewees but no exploration for the greater toll the bomb may have taken had it not exploded prematurely.

Green does a good job of trying to present both sides of the story, however, with Todd Gitlin presenting a dissenting New Left view of the Weathermen. The former radicals, in interviews and quotes from letters and memoirs, convey the sheer boredom of life underground. No jobs, no prospects: in a weird way they finally did live the lives of the oppressed they claimed to fight for.

Whether you watch this for entertainment or for enlightenment or both, The Weather Underground delivers. Green and Siegel have begun the effort to "Tease out what was right from what was wrong."