The widespread criticism of this film is a bit puzzling to me, as any film that makes the timelessness of Shakespeare not only palpable, but beloved by the MTV generation as a cult video hit should be appreciated and, hell, lauded for such a feat. 
And this play, above all others, to my mind, *needs* to be kept alive for teens to enjoy, as it's a breathtaking story of the purest love driven to tragedy by foolishness and impatience. It's the perfect catharsis for the broken-hearted, and the perfect date movie.
Shakespeare was first and foremost, an entertainer for the masses, not an obtuse artist whose work was only meant to be appreciated by a select few. (I know there are plenty who'll argue that point vehemently with me --- bring it on.)
DiCaprio gives us a great slacker in Romeo, who shows (to borrow from another play) "only the suits and trappings of woe" when we first see him writing love poetry to an unrequited love at the beginning of the film, and he flares to life wonderfully after meeting Juliet. Danes does a great job playing Juliet as a young woman, who is mature but so deeply in love that she ignores her better judgment, rather than going the easier "ditzy girl" route with the character. Nearly every actor in the film does a top-notch job at contemporizing their characters. 
As for the film itself, much has been made of the colourful art direction and the music-video editing, but it is really only truly radical on the surface. When compared to another recent contemporisation of Shakespeare, Michael Almerayda's Hamlet, Luhrmann's take on Romeo and Juliet truly is quite conservative in preserving the play's meanings beneath the flashy surface. 
My only qualms with the film? At times, the soundtrack truly hurts the film, adding nearly nothing and actually hurting the mood. Poppy songs like The Cardigans' "Lovefool" are shoe-horned in just for a moment or two, for the sake of saying they were in the movie. On the other hand, Des'ree's gorgeous song "Kissing You" is perfect for the title lovers' first meeting, and Radiohead's two additions, "Talk Show Host" and "Exit Music (for a Film)" work wonders for the mood. 
The opening scene of violence, obviously paying homage to Hong Kong action cinema is done with far too much over-the-top campiness. The opening scene should to be so memorable  that the intense violence echoes throughout the rest of the play, adding proof that the lovers' families are truly the most bitter of enemies. As it is, not only is the scene quite easily forgotten, but the tone is completely out-of-sync with the rest of the film. Luhrmann shows us that he can quite capably handle scenes of memorable violence later in the film during Mercutio's death scene, though. 
The constant bombardment of Christian imagery grows a bit weary and obvious at times (even showing up in the film's "R+J" title) but Luhrmann's message that the purity of love is sacred and even holy is well-intentioned and rings true.
Thanks to great performances and energetic direction, though, these flaws don't come close to spoiling a fresh and exhilariting update on one of the greatest works of drama in history, one which will be beloved of me and my peers for years to come. 
And the chicks dig it.