So as not to repeat what a lot of the other reviewers have said I will just pass comment on what has distressed me most about this release - the bits someone cut out!
On the original master tape containing the the last episode of the season (Follow The Leader) the producers finished the episode with a cliffhanger for an earlier episode (Attack of the Monster Plants) which was to be repeated the following week.  On this version of 'Follow the Leader,' at the end of the episode as John and Will walk off screen the image fades to black and the sound is poorly faded out.  We then get the cliffhanger from the end of the last episode of season two (The Galaxy Gift) which featured a cliffhanger for the first episode of season two (Blast Off Into Space ) which I assume would have meant a repeat of the first episode of season two the following week.
I cannot believe that somebody in charge took the decision to do this!  One of the best things about buying something on DVD or VHS (or it should be) is to see it un-cut.
This edit completely ruins the mood and look of the end of the final episode.  The jump from black and white to colour is very jarring but, ultimately, its that some bubble headed booby thought that it would be a good thing.
Will we get a 60 second teaser for the season three opener at the end of 'The Galaxy Gift' instead of its original cliffhanger ending?  What about the last episode of season three, a trailer for the Lost In Space movie?
A reviewer here posted that 'Return From Outer Space' had a very minor cut.  I have just counted two minor cuts in 'The Keeper Part Two.'  At about seventeen minutes into the episode the Keeper gives Dr Smith a small ball to keep him safe from the animals.  In a close up shot of the Keeper we see him about to turn around and walk away.  The next shot cuts to a close up of Dr Smith holding the ball in his hand and the incidental music jumps in awkwardly.  A two to three second shot has been removed.  After the Keeper motions to turn away we should cut to a two shot where we see the Keeper exit the screen as the camera moves in for a close up on Dr Smith as the music starts.
At about thirty minutes into the episode we see Maureen walk up the ramp of the Keepers' ship.  The music jumps awkwardly as she enters the ship.  The next shot features her walking into shot as she sees the Keeper unconscious on the floor of his ship.  On the version I have of that scene (taped from Channel 4 in the UK), after Maureen walks up the ramp and enters the ship we get a static shot of the Keeper unconscious on the floor of his ship.  It is a good three to four seconds before Maureen walks into shot to find him.
I had not seen 'The Keeper' for many years before watching this version but, the cuts were obvious enough for me to dig out my old tapes and check.
I would love to know why these cuts were made.  If the episodes used for this DVD release were from late eighties transfers, perhaps it was done to cut the episodes run time down by mere seconds (why bother with just a few seconds?) so more adverts could be crammed into the time slot.
Although Channel 4 cut one scene from 'The Derelict' and went straight into the credits just before the cliffhanger freeze frame for most of the season one episodes, they did a cracking job in comparison to this official offering from Fox who should have done a lot better.
I am sure that some of you may think my complaints silly but for me this was a chance to see and own Lost In Space uncut and on a format that would not deteriorate after repeated viewings.  Sadly, this has not happened here.  I can forgive the poor packaging (the front of the box looks fine but the colours and style used on the back and on the individual disk covers fails to retain the feel of the show.  The pictures of the cast on each cover are the same ones used on the front of the box - just blown up (and it shows)), the static menus (you get used to them but an animated menu would have been nice) and the lack of any extras that required to much effort to produce (we have The Fantasy Worlds of Irwin Allen and the extras on Lost In Space Forever to watch) but not the cuts and editing, however minor they might appear.
If anyone from Fox is reading this, please, please, PLEASE do not tamper with the episodes themselves otherwise, we might as well buy a load of blank tapes and record them off the TV.
More cuts...
The War of the Robots: Dr Smith drops Maureen's watch to the ground.  The music jumps in awkwardly and we cut to a split second shot of Dr Smiths boot standing on the watch.  We should see the watch laying on the ground just before Dr Smiths boot comes into shot to crush it.  Only a cut of about one to two seconds but just enough to be noticeable.