This movie had its moments and these moments were all in the trailer. I actually added one star to my review just because of these moments, without them, this movie would [be terrible].
True, Gene Hackman and Danny Devito were good, but I still don't think they gave the performances of their lifetimes. I actually felt that Gene Hackman did not quite keep his character consistent. Ricky Jay, who is a regular cast in David Mamet's, films did a much better job in House of Games. The rest of the case were flat out awful - really poor acting with no character.
In addition this movie makes no sense at all. What is supposed to make this movie interesting is the fact that there is double-cross after double-cross and one backup plan perpetually takes over a previous backup plan. Gene Hackman is supposed to be portraying the character of "the genius of backup plans" which is why he ends up the winner and takes the gold. 
I felt that all these backup plans simply made no sense and they were there just to try and make the movie interesting. Well, that just made the movie confusing - not interesting. At the same time it didn't make any 100% sense, but it would take to long to explain every detail of why not.
Just as an example. The movie starts with a jewelry store holdup. They execute a beautifully orchestrated robbery with a great distraction etc. They manage to sneak four coffees onto the store at lunchtime. The coffees were drugged and because of this all the employees were lying unconscious on the ground at the time the gang hit the store. One thing didn't go quite as planned. One lady didn't drink her coffee and she was still up. You actually see her get up (although it's not clear) and you see a full cup of coffee still in the tray. But what was she doing down to begin with? Did she faint out of fear when she saw her coworkers dropping down? Did se just take a nap?
At this time the gang was at the door ready to get in. They were all wearing masks to conceal their faces from the security cameras. Gene Hackman did not put his mask on yet and he was trying to decide what to do. So he decides to walk in without a mask and say "Thanks God you're here. Call 911 there's been an explosion." Then he walks up to her and stuns her with a stun gun. Then he looks straight into the camera and tries to figure out what to do next.
I am not the genius with a million backup plans (as Gene Hackman's character is supposed to be) but [I would have done something different].
There were almost a million other inconsistencies in the movie that just didn't make any sense, just like the above example didn't. But it would take a long time to describe, so I'll spare you of the details.
If you wish to see for yourself it will not be a tragedy to spend 2 or 3 bucks on a rental, but I would not spend more than that to see this mediocre movie.