Let me start off by saying I'm an extremely overweight person (OK, let's just say fat and get it over with), and I was not offended in the least at this movie. In fact, I loved it. I had a lot of empathy for the Gwyneth Paltrow character in the movie, with her extreme lack of confidence and poor self image. What makes it a great acting job on her part is that she is the VERY SAME CHARACTER whether in or out of the "fat suit". The only part of her performance that doesn't quite ring true is her unihibitedness in the bedroom with Jack Black. I'd think it would take a few times before she'd feel comfortable "leaving the light on", if you know what I mean. But, having broken a chair or two in my time and having suffered under-the-breath comments and stares I know what it's like, and that's just reality. It's a bonus realizing that Gwyneth Paltrow probably grew as a person when she ventured out in the fat suit and saw just how lonely the "fat life" can be.
To be honest, I also identified with Jack Black, in a way, as a guy who has higher standards than he should in the more superficial categories. And, let's face it, it doesn't hurt to have beautiful women like Gwyneth Paltrow, former Baywatch babe Brooke Burns, and Jack Black's lovely neighbor (whose name escapes me) to add to the eye-candy in this movie.
Nearly every move was perfect. It was a stroke of genius to cast self-help guru Tony Robbins as the person who "hypnotizes" Black's character to only see the inner beauty of people and not the outer. Jason Alexander plays, to me, what is a very George Costanza like character, rejecting his girlfriend because her second toe is half an inch longer than her big toe, when he has a secret defect revealed later in the movie that is much more grotesque. He, in fact, is much more shallow than Hal. The coolest character is Walter, who walks on all fours because he has spina bifuda. This is played by a non-actor who actually has the disease and actually gets around just that way. But that doesn't get in the way of him enjoying life to the absolute fullest. 
I am normally not a big Farrelly Brothers fan. I find their movies generally crossing the line from humor to stupidity. But this movie shows that the boys have a heart. Highly recommended.