Before watching this movie I heard that a guy named Ridley Scott directed this movie.  I usually don't care who a director is for a movie but I thought it was interesting that this guy was also the director for flicks like Gladiator and Black Hawk Down.  When I heard this I thought, man this should be a good movie.  I has sorta right.  Matchstick Man tells a good storyline but the story doesn't hold my interest all the way through the movie and of course a plot twist at the end sorta ruined it. Nicholas Cage is Roy who is a con-artist that has many personal problems.  He can't stand outdoors and can't stand unorganized and dirty rooms as he makes people take off their shoes before entering his house.  He constantly has trouble keeping with the pills that deal with his personal problems.  One day Roy speaks with a doctor about getting another prescription of pills. His original doctor was on vacation so he saw a substitute.  As he was talking with his personal life he discovers that he has a daughter named Angela with his ex-girlfriend Heather.  Roy is now put in a serious bind as not only is he about to set his biggest score, he is now having to take responsibilities as a father and try to keep her from getting involved in his work.  Of course his daughter isn't what you call a saint.  She smokes like he does, drinks, and has been arrested for shoplifting despite being a minor.  When she find out what he did for a living, she was impressed and does encourage her father to teach her a few things.  She does end up involved in her dad's next con with his partner Frank.  Of course, the con didn't go as planned as the guy they screwed was hot in pursuit of Roy.  The guy even showed up at his house with Frank being helded hostage and in demand with at least half the cut that he owed.  His daughter end up accidentlly killing the guy in attempt to defend her father.  Now all three of their lives are in jeopardy, but Angela is the only one that Roy is really concerned about.  He has frank drive off with her far away and try to hook up on a later day.  However, Roy talks to Heather and discovers that when she was pregnant, she had a miscarriage.  Roy was hurt and felt betrayed but as he promised Angela during the movie, he does give up cons and works at a furniture store where he mets Angela one year later.  Even though he was disappointed with being set up, they do reconcile their differences. Nicholas Cage and the girl who played Angela were the only saving graces of this movie.  They worked well together.  The movie had a great story but it was hard to stay focused throughout the whole movie as they showed too many scenes of him looking for his medication and making trips to the drug store which I thought was a little unnecessary.  It is at least worthy of a rental, then you can draw your own conclusions.