Unleashed is about a man named "Danny the Dog" (Jet Li), raised like an animal since childhood and trained to unquestioningly obey his master (Bob Hoskins). With his collar on, he is docile and emotionless, but when his master takes it off he turns into a powerful, unstoppable killing machine. When Danny is injured and separated from his master, he is taken in by a kind old piano tuner, Sam (Morgan Freeman) and his equally friendly granddaughter, Victoria (Kerry Condon). With their compassion and the solace that Danny finds in learning to play the piano, he tries to regain his humanity and escape physically, mentally, and emotionally from the oppression that had been forced on him for so long.

Directed by Louis Leterrier, Unleashed deals with familiar themes, but within completely different circumstances. Sure we've seen movies about people who were trained since they were young to kill, and we've seen movies about dogs that run away from their abusive owners, but combining the two concepts creates a very original and intriguing storyline. Though it seems like it could easily become weighed down by its implausibility, Li's honest portrayal of Danny makes everything work. That kind of extreme contrast, of being a violent murderer and yet still being na&#65533;ve and innocent, is incredibly hard to pull off, but Li does it flawlessly. Hoskins also does an excellent job as the cruel antagonist of the story, and the scenes when Li's character confronts him are all intensely convincing.

If you haven't guessed by now, this is not a typical Jet Li martial arts movie. It focuses more on the drama and underlying emotions than on the fights themselves, but that's not to say the fight scenes weren't extremely well-done. All of the fights were elaborate enough to be interesting without being over the top, keeping the special effects at a refreshing minimum. And even though these scenes were also very gory, the bloody violence was used to show the contrast between the two worlds that Danny becomes engulfed in; it wasn't just thrown in for looks.

The only thing about this movie that annoyed me enough to comment on it was Freeman and Condon's characters. Both actors did a great job with their parts, but...how many people would unconditionally take in some mystery man that they found on the streets who wouldn't even tell them his real name and who hid under the bed whenever they tried to bring him food? As much as I'd love to believe otherwise, pure-hearted philanthropists like that are one in a million, and the fact that Danny just happens to encounter two of them is almost too coincidental. Almost.  But everyone was so perfectly cast and the story flowed so smoothly that for 1 hour and 43 minutes I could just forget about that minor detail.

Unleashed has just the right mix of drama and action, with a nice touch of humor, to create a truly compelling movie. It takes fears and desires that many of us have felt before and portrays them in new and original context. Recommended for fans of music, Jet Li, or good movies in general.