Of all of fiction's spies, Smiley, the master of bureaucratic warfare, is the most believable.  Casualties in the Cold War were few, at least in the rich countries.  The Cold War was a shadow war largely fought by men like Smiley - grey, methodical and alert to any inconsistency, whose battlefields were the minutes of obscure committees and the cross-referencing of appointments to junior posts in trade missions in filthy third world provincial capitals.

It is this battle of the bureaucrats that is depicted in Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy, and it is depicted with such biting accuracy that one forgets just how daring a screen play as lacking in action as this is.  It is hard to imagine a television commissioning editor these days, especially in the BBC, going ahead with a series with an opening as somnolescently cryptic as this one - four men in suits enter a room, unannounced, undescribed, reading and smoking but saying nothing.  There is no music or subtitle.  After perhaps a minute, one of them says, "We are ready to begin."  And so begins one of the most beautifully crafted series in television history.

This series, as said, doesn't major on action.  The mystery is as complex and difficult to piece together as any good spy mystery, but the plot is fairly simple - Smiley must uncover the traitor before he does any more damage.  What this series excels at is character and atmosphere - it evokes the 1970s wonderfully, a 1970s where Britain was managed into genteel decline by chain-smoking toffs in expensive suits who harked after the lost battles of an Empire they loathed and repined for at the same time.  There are no two dimensional characters, no cardboard cutouts here - everyone is delightfully rounded, even the extras.

The Empire is all but forgotten now, as is the post-Imperial malaise which followed it; the tension in the British establishment between pro- and anti-Americans remains, but the Cold War has been replaced by new conflicts, more clear cut and without the shadow of the bomb.  We are unlikely to find well-heeled Cambridge graduates from the dominant ethnic group running off to join al-Qa'eda these days.

The toffs haven't gone, but they have mutated - gone into camouflage.  While continuing to send their children to the best schools, they have mockney demoticised their accents, swapped their suits for fleeces and banned smoking from their offices.  This series beautifully evokes the Britain of the 1970s, in the silent period between the two social revolutions of the `60s and the `80s.

In general, the television series is very faithful to the book and all the better for it.  It drifts off more at the end, and two of the last three scenes are the weakest of the series.  That's not enough to ruin a brilliant series.