This note is a review of a review.  Review #1 needs a SPOILER ALERT!

  I have not seen this film. But as an original Merry Marvel Marcher I am pretty sure I will have a good time with it. The Rammi films have all been true enough to the character and concept that the series has been among the most enjoyable of the Marvel features. No surprise in that Spiderman is the most successful of the entire Marvel super hero pantheon.
  Hence,a top rating on an unseen film.

  This is WARNING to all readers about the over written, first review on this page. Probably too late, right? None the less,future writers, take this as literary advise on courtesy if nothing else.

  SPOILER ALERT!!!!  DO NOT BLINDLY READ THE OPENING REVIEW IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THE MOVIE.
  After the First paragraph, skip to the Last paragraph. Everything in between has very little to say other than to expound on all the major plot points of the movie. Granted, comic book movie stories lack the subtle twists and turns of a Hitchcock or an Agatha Christi. But giving a blow by blow account of every major act in the film is not a review. At best, it is only an expo on the story line. Nothing more.
  So, for better or worse, if all a writer can do is say " I have seen this movie! This is what happened in it, start to finish. And this is what I think of each of these actions", well, shut up! That is not a review in any sense. It is a Critique, something to be read AFTER seeing the film. Not Before!
  A good writer can address the qualities of a film without simply telling the story line. In fact, that is the real function of a review! To give insight into the merits of a given film. Not to retell the story.
  I will never forget the experience of having a "friend" who had read the book tell me that Darth Vader is Luke's father the day before the film's premier. I said nothing to the rest of my family. But for me, the dramatic impact was completely ruined by one inconsiderate person!

  So, a note to all you blabber mouths out there. Put a lid on it until some time after the DVD is released! Or post the label SPOILER ALERT at the heading of your review. Telling everything you have seen in a film is not smart,or clever. It is just lazy,arrogant,shallow,empty exposition. It is the kind of thing people write when they really don't have anything original to say. Do us all a favor. This is not some school assignment where you have pages to fill. If you cannot do any better than simply retelling the story,leave your keyboard alone! We want to SEE the movie for it's own sake. Not have the experience cluttered up with unwelcome information. How many people would watch a whole baseball game if they knew who won? Get my point yet?
  There are people who do NOT need their minds made up for them!
  'nuff said. JPF