'Pitch Black' is a stark, surprisingly well-developed and thought out variation on the outer-space, Sci-Fi action thriller.  Special effects are suprisingly good for a low-budget film, and the acting and character development are what set it apart from so many, many bad past films of the same genre.
Vin Diesel is a star in the making.  This is not where you first heard it, but it's only a matter of time before his star explodes into a SuperNova.  His charisma and intensity are palpable, and he has more muscles than any leading man since Arnold.  Catch him in the movie, 'Boiler Room' for a look at him in a suit, with nothing to else to rely on except his great acting ability.  Most of all, his very unique features, baritone voice, and ambiguous ethnic backgound make him a very memorable, unique hero/antihero and an actor to watch.
Other characters were less compelling, especially David Keith's very formulaic role as a muslim holy-man.  Where have I seen that character before?  Somewhere, I'm sure.
Radha Mitchell also turns in a pretty good performance as the group leader and seat of their moral angst.  Once again, pretty good character development on the ambiguity of good/evil. Although not of fashion model dimensions or strikingness, Ms. Mitchell's character and features tend to grow on you. Within the first ten minutes of the film, one begins to realize that she is one very, very attractive young woman!  She is a fine actor, too, and I was more than a little surprised to find out that she is actually an Australian, and NOT an American, as portrayed in the film.  If she can do a passably good American accent, why can't Mel Gibson??
There is a big enough plot twist in the end to keep you satisfied *after* the movie is over.  Coupled with the unique, interesting characters, better-than-average character development, better-than-average SFX, and some eye-candy in Diesel and Mitchell, this is a movie that you will remember some time after seeing it.  How many other formulaic space-monster Sci-Fi thrillers in recent memory can you say that about?