I am keen on "older" vampire movies, before they started being shot on videotape.  Hence, I was surprised that I never heard of "Lemora..."  First off, even after reading the mostly rave reviews about it, all I could think about was "hmmm, isn't a lemora some kind of eel?"; as it was, I couldn't resist all the glowing reviews of this film.  Upon seeing it, I can't help but think that the majority of these reviews were, indeed, based upon nostalgia.  Viewers with any perspective whatsoever will immediately see this as something that would have had a memorable effect on any youngster who may have seen it.  In fact, as I've learned, it has a memorable effect on ANYone who sees it.  I'll give it this much: it is u-n-i-q-u-e!  The oddest effect it had on me was sleep inducement.  And that is not necessarly a "bad" thing, in this case.  I find it almost impossible to remain awake throughout this whole film, but not especially because it is boring (it is not, though it isn't exactly "exciting").  It creates this wave of hypnotic haze over me, matched only by Dreyer's "Vampyr"... also find it hard or impossible to stay awake during that one.  These are the only 2 films which effect me this way, so take that for whatever it means (it must mean something).  Among many others, I consider "Vampyr" to be a landmark of genius, due to it's unquestionably eerie imagery, certainly not for it's driving narrative.  Perhaps the same can be said of "Lemora", as I certainly DO enjoy most of the imagery.  For me, this film, like "Vampyr", is a series of (to me) beautiful, haunting paintings, with the story being only secondary.  Because the story itself is quite abstract (yet easily "understood") and can be taken in several ways.  It is, in the end, HOKEY.  But it is endearing to all but the most ignorant "gol, that ain't SCARY, there ain't no BLOOD!" horror fan, even though you may have to watch it at least twice to become enchanted by it.  I would say that it IS a must-see, though it is not a favourite of mine by any means.  If not for the oozing originality and Bava-esque cinematography, or the quite attractive (can't believe nobody has yet mentioned the "bathtub nipple" sequence) Cheryl Smith (who sho'nuff don't look like no 13 year old!), I'd be giving this a 3 or even 2.  But it is unforgettable and original enough to warrant at least a 4. The woman that plays Lemora herself is equal parts enigmatic and awkward, perhaps creating an actual character rather than a caricature?  One of the indelible images of the film is her red-splotched cheekbones (like that rash/disease called rosacea or something like that)...intentional, or did she really have that affliction?  I'll also go along with what others said, that it certainly doesn't REALLY look like a '70s film, exactly, being meant as the 30s (in other words, no goofy fashions, hair, or music).Another forwarning to those who are influenced by the many glowing reviews: the "anti-religion" and "lesbianism" factors are a lot more subtle than blatant, but they are there.  A flawed, low-budget film that benefits from gorgeous photography, some memorably creepy(as well as a few ludicrous)characters/scenes, and a stamp of originality that elevates it to that "must-see" status.  And if you really, really, really like gloppy-faced forest-dwelling malformed beast men who act like those rowdy kids who ruined your junior-high Christmas pageant, it is ESSENTIAL viewing(yes, like many other reviewers I also am perplexed as to what they are meant to be)!