Here's a couple of facts for those who hate reading long, repetative reviews. Hopefully, if this little list captures your interest, it'll help you in your decision to purchase this DVD.

1. A romantic comedy that's loveable enough for a date, and raunchy enough for a night out with the guys. An excellent mix of genres to draw you in no matter how you feel.

2. Plot: Let's face it, if you're purchasing this dvd, then it's not for the plot, but for the hilarious scenes scattered throughout the movie. But guess what? The plot in this romantic comedy is...good! (wow, that sentence sounds like an oxymoron, doesn't it?). Anyways, the movie follows two men who, obviously, "crash weddings," looking for beautiful women to take home and sleep with. As is the fashing of the genre, one of the men falls for one of his "targets." Further, this target happens to be the daughter of a very powerful political figure. And the other guy? He has to deal with the girl's sadistic, yet hysterical sister. Laughs ensue (enough to make your stomach ache).

3. Characters: One of the things that makes this movie so special is, to be blunt, its screwed up characters. Yep, every character, from the notsoflamboyant gay teen, to the "Mrs. Robinson on drugs" mother, has a moment where they shine, throwing the audience into laughter. Further, the characters all interact with excellent chemistry - these people are spoiled, racist, power-hungry, cheating sex-addicts - but you'll love every one of em!

4. Predictability: Yes, as good as the plot is for a romantic comedy, it still IS a romantic comedy. All the plot arcs are there (boy acts bad, boy meets girl, boy falls in love, ...you know the rest). Because of this, some parts, especially the final few minutes, lose a bit of steam, but don't worry - the film always picks back up the laughter.

5. For the guys: Rachel McAdams is Rachel McAdams - I don't need to say much more about this beautiful woman. Isla Fisher is also very sexy when she's not whining (which, by the way, she does VERY well). Oh yeah...and there's nudity too.

6. For the ladies: Unless you have a thing for Vaughn or Wilson, you may be a bit dissappointed. They do get shirtless though.

7. For the kids: Probably not - this movie is VERY raunchy, and, as I mentioned before, there IS quite a bit of nudity. Showing them this movie is your choice, but they may not even be interested (as many of the jokes will fly over their heads).

8. The film has a relatively fast pace, but it does drag in sections. Watching this with friends, or a loved one, is a great idea.

9. Extras: Some nice commentary, a few deleted scenes (they're ok - nothing special), the usual documentaries, etc etc etc. The extras are pretty standard, but, again, this isn't what you should be buying this movie for.

10. The price at amazon is the lowest you'll get this dvd for over the next month or two. It's a good deal.

***Overall: I suggest buying this movie if your in the mood to laugh (and trust me, you will) - plain and simple. However, if you don't much enjoy raunchy movies, or if you need something for the kids, this is not for you. Again, watch it with friends.

Score: 4/5