A Mouse That Roared, Dr. Strangelove, A Shot In The Dark, The Magic Christian, and now, The Pink Panther Strikes Again. The fourth movie in the Pink Panther series is the best, bettering even A Shot In The Dark. This time, Clouseau must stop his former supervisor, Dreyfus, now a power-crazed madman, from destroying the world with a superlaser that preempts the laser from Grand Moff Tarkin's Death Star by two years.
Herbert Lom's talents as Dreyfus are nowhere better than in this movie. We clearly see a man driven further to the edge, and carrying his goal to kill Clouseau to new heights, especially by holding the world hostage in exchange for Clouseau, dead or alive, preferably dead. And yes, that nervous twitch in his eye has gotten worse.
The scenes with the assassins at the Oktoberfest hilariously shows that Clouseau is a lucky son-of-a-gun, narrowly avoiding certain death. Of particular interest is the scene in the public restroom.
Just when you think the movie can't get any better, along comes Lesley Anne-Down (Georgina Wellsley in Upstairs Downstairs) as Russian agent Olga Beriosova,  who and one of the sexiest femme fatales I've ever seen onscreen. She only has ten minutes of screen time altogether but I had to wipe the steam off the TV both times, especially in the final scene.
Some gags are repeated from other movies.  The tearing of Clouseau's trousers, his falling into a pool of water, having someone remember what Clouseau was saying, and Clouseau stepping on someone's foot all came from A Shot In The Dark. Then there's Clouseau's mutilation of English words, especially "room" from Return Of The Pink Panther. However, take note that the apartment rumble between Clouseau and Cato are the most destructive and funniest in all the series.
Like all British movies, familiar faces pop up in small roles and cameos. The plummy Michael Robbins (Dr. Who-The Visitation) plays a butler who leads an interesting double life. There's Patsy Smart, who was Miss Roberts in Upstairs Downstairs, as a servant, Damaris Hayman (the white witch Ms. Hawthorne in Dr. Who-The Daemons), as a not-so-alert woman who mistakes Clouseau's attempts to save Dreyfus as a kind of romantic love, Tony Simpson (cameos in Are You Being Served? and The Tales Of Tiffany Jones) as a very old but alert gardener, Leonard Rossiter (Reginald Perrin) as the British inspector who becomes a victim of Clouseau's bumbling in a very painful way, and Deep Roy, (Dr. Who-Talons Of Weng Chiang as Mr. Sin), as a midget assassin, 
One of the funniest gags involve the rendition of a classic joke about a man asking another man if his dog bites. Another is his response to the destruction of "a precious Steinway," and his entanglement with a suit of armour. And Clouseau's repeated attempts to penetrate Dreyfus's stronghold are akin to Wile E.Coyote's attempts to get Roadrunner--something else funny and cruel prevents him. Oh yes, and there's the scene where's he's disguised as a dentist and where he and Dreyfus succumb to laughing gas.
Of the Pink Panther collection, this one and A Shot In The Dark are the sparkling jewels, so make ruum for it in your video or DVD collection, you swann. Ruum? Oh, you mean room? That's what I said, you fool! Ruum!