We've all been there - it's Christmas Eve; Mom, Dad, and the kids (in this case teenagers, a brother and sister, Richard and Marian, and her boyfriend, Brad) get in the car and head off to Grandma's.  Mom has the obligatory chocolate and pumpkin pie ("smells like ass", Richard offers.)  Mom likes to sing songs during car trips and offer coffee to her husband who refuses to let anyone else drive.  Richard is at the stage where everything his parents do embarrasses him and he escapes into his Marilyn Manson CD at every chance.  No one escapes Richard's wrath, especially his sister's boyfriend, Brad, whom, Richard is convinced, is gay.  Marian, the sister, is not as mouthy or disillusioned as her brother, and she can still find it fun to sing songs in the car with her parents.  Dad is Richard in 30 years.  Dad is disillusioned and frustrated and sick to death of Christmas Eve at his mother-in-law's house.  He has probably fallen out of love with his wife for many years  now, but stays with her because of the children.  When he snaps at his wife, he immediately feels remorse and most times his apologies take the form of just changing the subject to something else.  Brad, the boyfriend, is new to this family and tries his best to be upbeat and pleasant, after all, he is very much in love with Marian, and he even takes Richard's gay remarks with a grin, at first.  Things soon quiet down, and as they drive through the star filled sky everyone begins to doze off , everyone - including Dad.  He closes his eyes for a moment but that is all it takes.  Suddenly a car horn goes off, his daughter screams, and he awakes abruptly to oncoming head lights.  He barely misses colliding with the oncoming  car.  Or does he?

The world doesn't make sense after their near collision.  They are continually confounded by the never ending road, strange noises coming from their radio, cries for help from the cell phone, abandoned ranger's shacks, the appearance of a baby carriage in the road, and the inexplicable black car that seemingly kidnaps one family member after another.  And the woman in white.

I have watched this movie several times now and it seems to be like the movie "A Christmas Story", only if it was written by Stephen King.  The humor is wicked and brilliant, and the chilling moments are truly creepy.  It took several viewings to really listen to the dialogue in the beginning and realize how it relates to the revelations of each family member by the end of the movie.  Intelligent stuff.  One of my favorite lines:

"Darling, is the phone not working?"
"No, Laura, I forgot the number for 9-1-1."

The mother is played by Lin Shaye, who is incredibly funny and talented and versatile in this.  The father is played perfectly by Ray Wise.  Richard is played by the hilarious and cute, Mick Cain.  Marian is played by Alexandra Holden, and Brad is portrayed by Billy Asher.  Great performances by everyone, great screen writing, and truly chilling.  I recommend this one highly.