I first saw Arnold in a movie called Conan The Barbarian. I was little then, and I only caught glimpses of a few clips. A couple of my dad's friends rented it and watched it in our house. I wasn't impressed much then...until a few years later. 
My first real exposure to Arnold was with the movie poster of Commando. He looked ruthless and cold and I frankly haven't ever seen that kind of a killer like determined image of anyone before. He looked like nothing could stand in his way once he started moving on. I watched Red Heat first and a few more movies of his and was very impressed with his muscular physique and started bodybuilding on the roof of my dad's house in earnest. 
Later, one day, I met (now a close friend of mine) Shimul. He was Mr. Bangladesh (in the middleweight division), and he was training for the next contest. I had never seen a bodybuilder in person before and this 180lb and beautifully developed guy was the first amateur bodybuilder I met. He looked awesome to me (I was a 150 lb weakling then). When I told him of Arnold and his movies (I had no idea that Arnold was the best bodybuilder of all time then) he smiled and said, wait till you see the real Arnold in a movie called "Pumping Iron". 
The next day I borrowed it from him and watched it. When I saw the scene where he does the concentration curls with the dumbbells my eyes almost fell out of my sockets...his arms looked like balloons..like someone blew air into them and they were ready to explode! This guy was larger than life and it was only a video I was looking at. I became hooked to bodybuilding after that, and in my mind I have only one image (that of Arnold) when I aspire to change my own physique. I became a bigger fan after watching this movie because my respect of him as a bodybuilder grew after the initial introduction to the moviestar. 
I think any bodybuilding fan or Arnold fan should have this movie
in their collection. I recently was able to lay my hands on a Rhino version of the movie (in VHS format) from my university media library, and was able to make a personal copy of the movie. The print is very clear and the version is uncut. The one I watched in Bangladesh (where I lived before) wasn't very clear and complete. But this one is. I think it is sad that the movie has gone out of production as it is a great educational video for any aspiring bodybuilder or person with an intention to build a better physique.