Martin Scorsese's film about the struggle for supremacy between Native white American and Irish immigrant gangs at the 19th-century New York slum district of Five Points give an authentic, fascinating but at times bleary, even oddly (for Scorsese) "Hollywoodish" feel to this big-budget project.  The costumes and sets (the latter built in Italy) are mightily impressive, and some of the period details make for riveting viewing.  The film starts with Irish American Amsterdam Vallon (Leonardo DiCaprio) as a boy, witnessing the killing of his father by Bill the Butcher (Day Lewis).  The story gains momentum with him making his way back as an adult to take revenge on Bill the Butcher incognito, who is oblivious of his identity.  Scorsese takes some liberty with history and changes the name of "Bill the Butcher" to William Cutting.  The real Bill the Butcher never lived in Five Points nor ever could (Five Points was reserved for immigrants), nor did he die in 1862.

Daniel Day Lewis's acting is inspired, and DiCaprio and Diaz both act well enough to acquaint themselves beside him.  However, it is doubtless that it's Day Lewis's portrayal of the bigoted, dandyish "Bill the Butcher" which holds the day.  Scorsese's ambitious script starts like a familiar revenge story, but gradually interweaves history as it delves into the milieu and feel of the 19th-century lower-class New York, from the amateur fire departments to "Boss" Tweed to the climactic showdown between the two in the amidst the New York Draft Riots of 1863, making an entrancing parallel viewing about a forgotten segment of New Yorkian life.  With a fairly predictable storyline, Scorsese's eye for detail is mostly unerring, always bringing our attention back to period concerns and preoccupations.  The cinematography is outstanding.  In the final analysis, Gangs of New York may not be Scorsese's best, but for the money it's still a colorful, visually lauable effort at depicting the seamy underbelly of one city with its social rivalries and political tensions.