Depending on what you've heard, Frontier(s) is either A.) a bloody masterpiece of French horror or B.) a derivative hodgepodge of cliches lifted from other horror films. I'm in the middle--no, it's not original or groundbreaking, and yes, it does borrow from a number of past films (although it doesn't attempt to hide its influences) in the genre but it is a blast and much better than most American horror films made today. At the end of the day, it's a well-made horror film with some great performances, a decent plot, some political subtext and extra helping of gore.

The film takes place in a possible future in France, in which an extreme right-wing government has taken control and riots take place in the street. Those familiar with current French politics will get more out of it than those who don't, as the film was made in response to riots that have taken place in the country recently. A group of thieves attempt to take advantage of the political climate, but things go wrong and they find themselves heading off to an inn for shelter... an inn that just happens to be run by Neo-Nazi cannibals. Needless to say, things get messy.

Frontier(s) isn't a deep film by any stretch of the imagination, but it works. All the actors are great in their respective roles and they take the film seriously as opposed to for camp. There really isn't a single bad performance in the film. The cannibalistic family is fantastic as well--there's a nice range of characters here, from some who are actually quite sympathetic to those who are nothing short of despicable. While I don't see this becoming a "franchise", I wouldn't mind seeing these characters and their histories explored elsewhere.

The film is pretty bloody but at the same time it's not unwatchable in its goriness. Nor is it particularly 'upsetting', like other French films in the genre. It's more of an intense, visceral thrill ride than anything that will leave you depressed. It's a pretty bleak film but it's not soul-crushing.

Unfortunately, the DVD presentation is... not so good. For starters, there are no special features whatsoever. The international release is apparently stacked with features, and LionsGate couldn't port over a commentary, a featurette and maybe some deleted scenes? It's frustrating that so many American releases of foreign films drop the ball in this area.

Even worse are the subtitles. It's like someone just ran the script through Google translate and didn't bother to actually consider how well it sounded to English readers. Example: One character calls another "trash", the subtitles read "garbage can". At another point, a character asks "What are doing!" For what it's worth, the film is still watchable and you'll still enjoy it, but there's still no excuse for this kind of sloppiness. Unfortunately, there are no real alternatives unless you own a Region-free DVD player. If you speak French fluently, there's a Blu-ray release in France that has no subtitles. I guess the best I can say is that at least this DVD gives you the option to turn off subtitles. Something you'd take for granted, but even that isn't guaranteed nowadays (see the Region 1 DVD of Thirst). Overall, the impression is that LionsGate just didn't give a damn, which is a shame. I'm guessing they thought that since it's a foreign film they didn't need to put any effort onto it and put out the cheapest possible disc possible.

I still give this disc my recommendation, albeit with some serious caveats. Take it as you will.