Here's one great movie which is headed; eventually, to become a cult classic like Star Wars, the Matrix and What the Bleep do we know??:  A movie that will open up one's mind to ponder the mysteries of the divine universe and our relationship to and in it.  What really impressed me about the movie is how it closely followed the sequence and events in the book.  In addition to the scene where Socrates exemplified Jesus by giving away all of his and Dan's personal items in order to avoid physical conflict.

Whether you believe this or not, "synchronicity" brought you "here" and to my humble review and recommendation of this movie:  This movie provides the navigation and road map for you to discover the "meta-purpose" of why you are "here" and how to learn to follow your own path through this 3D reality.

First of all, there are many complex meta-elements in this movie; such as, (1) the issues of violence against oneself, (2) the seeking of approval from others and the outside "world," (3) how the vast majority of people sleep-walk through life and don't exist, feel and live in the moment and experience real joy, (4) service to others is the ultimate purpose of one's existence, (5) developing non-attachment to trinkets (material stuff) and the drama of daily events, (6) realizing that what one experiences and learns along the journey is what's important and not the goal in itself, (7) clearing out the garbage within one's mind in order to sense, feel and experience everything which is happening around oneself, (8) the universe is a mirror and reflection of what's going on within your head ~ you create your reality, (9) there's a very big difference between knowledge and wisdom, and (10) the true answers to all of one's questions are centered and anchored within you already, which is where the kingdom of God and heaven is, and all you need to do is still your thoughts and monkey-mind to access them.

What also stands out in this movie are the contrasts between Dan Millman, who is an immature, arrogant, and self-absorbed college gymnast and Socrates whom is exemplified as the wise sage, mentor and teacher.  As the movie progresses from beginning to end, I realized that this movie followed the path of what Joseph Campbell referred to as the "Journey of the Hero." The journey of the hero involves:  (1) doubt, denial, anger & disbelief, (2) separation and isolation from the "world," (3) death to one's beliefs, experience & initiation, (4) understanding, resolution, acceptance, integration and the fusion of knowledge into wisdom, and (5) the "return" to reality and society in order to be of service to others.  This concept is very similar to Elizabeth Kuebler-Ross's stages of Death and Dying and Eric Erickson's psychological levels of growth and development in which the highest level is self-actualization in which very few people ever achieve or reach.

Let me reiterate my following statement; "synchronicity brought you here to read everyone's reviews, and mine, of this highly recommended and spiritual movie."  If you start knocking, doors (universes, answers and realities) will open up to you; if you ask the appropriate questions, answers will come to you; and if you sincerely seek, you will find that special mentor, teacher and resource(s) to guide you along your "hero's journey" in this 3D reality...  May peace be with you, my friends!!!