As a P90X user and having completed P90X2 earlier this year I knew my weakness was cardio.  I read reviewers on Amazon for their thoughts on Asylum and I feel is is money well spent (if you use it).

 I have just completed the 30 days (though it took me about 40 as I needed more rest days in-between) of straight Asylum.  My goal was to finish each workout, which I did.  They were tough....really tough and some moves (like other reviewers) I still haven't "mastered".  I'm 43 years old, not overweight but I'm always looking for ways to improve my overall health. What changed after the 30 days (now remember I have completed X2....).....first, my gluts are lifted (and ladies you KNOW they are the last to improve), my legs are stronger and have great tone, and back muscles are stunning!  My cardio recovery time has shortened(I wear a heart monitor) , which is why I did this program to begin with!

Here is what I did to "finish":

~found worksheets online to print (for me this helps push myself, Shaun uses timed intervals and sometimes I could only complete 30 seconds out of the one minute...but next time I could push myself to do more)

~didn't use jump rope (I tried, but it became too cumbersome for me...I "mimed" the rope hopefully this is a skill I can develop)

~buy the ladder...this is key...sounds like you won't use it or need it but it makes you accountable for each move

~you WILL sweat (I never really was drenched after any of the P90x workouts, but Shaut T will make sure you do)

~don't give up (there were days I yelled at Shaun....I hated, dreaded doing some of the workouts....UGGH....but I knew I had to so I could improve, don't we all hate doing what we are not good at)

~rest (I required more rest inbetween, your body will let you know if you have to rest...listen to it)

~added Ab routine (midway through the program I added the P90X2 ab routine BEFORE I did Shaun's workout)

~looked forward to my favorite workout (Back to Core)

Today is my final fit test day...looking forward to seeing what progress was made.  On day one, I had problems with the warm up.....by day 20 it was a breeze (somewhat).  Also....be of good cheer, the Army vets in the workouts take "mini-breaks" too...that made me feel like they were human after all.

What's next: P90X2 and Asylum hybrid