The movie itself is worth 5 stars - at least as far as Rock 'n' Roll movies are concerned. This is a classic rock film. However, this particular (Mirimax/Alliance Atlantis) version presents the picture in an incorrectly framed aspect ratio which chops off words on signs (such as the "We" in the sign that says "We Buy Anything" that Ringo sees during his "This Boy" sequence) and people's heads (check out the end of the "This Boy" sequence when ringo leaves the boy and a close up crops the frame to below his eyes!) 
There is no way on earth that this aspect ratio is what director Richard Lester intended. Why would he shoot the film with well framed shots (as seen in earlier editions) but want it to be released in the poorly cropped, claustrophobic style of this dvd? He wouldn't. I love widescreen but only when a movie is meant to be widescreen! The original intended aspect ratio is always the desired format. 
Using frame captures I took from both this DVD and the 1995 MPI Special Edition VHS release (I have several versions in laser disc and VHS but this is the version that crops the least from the original film negative), I discovered about 1/6th of the top and bottom of the frame has been cropped and a barely noticeable 1/14th restored to the sides. If you don't believe me and have the 1995 MPI video tape, compare them side by side. I wish a campaign to offer free replacements for these misframed discs had been started (such as the successful campaign for the misframed widescreen Back To The Future set). There is no shot in the full frame VHS that shows microphone booms or 'junk footage' so it is definitely far closer to the proper aspect ratio than this DVD.
Also, the audio is just the original monophonic soundtrack processed to simulate (sort of) 5.1 stereo. The great MPI release had crisp, true stereo versions of all the songs (except for "She Loves You" of course, as the original stereo master was destroyed). 
Wish I hadn't wasted my money on this version - what a disappointment. I will never watch this dvd again. Whenever I want to enjoy A Hard Day's Night, I pop in the 1995 MPI VHS.
P.S. The cardboard case the discs are in is cheaply made too...and my disc one has a crack starting to run through it from the middle, as well as a pocket of air inside the middle of the disc which most likely will eventually render the disc unplayable. This probably started because the discs are held too tightly by the plastic holders inside the case, thus you really have to yank on them to get them out.