Augh, I get so tired of people slamming movies just to make themselves appear to be some sorts of cinema gods who think everything's supposed to be high art.  This movie was perfectly enjoyable for what it was.  I even went to see it twice, and I may go again.  I am a huge horror genre fan, werewolves in particular.  Ever since I was a kid I've had a fascination with them.  So, when I heard this movie was coming out, I flipped with excitement.  And I was not let down, for the most part.
Granted, the acting in this movie WAS a bit cheeeezy, but so what?  Not the first time I sat through a fine movie all the while tolerating bad acting (Titanic's Leo anyone?). Beckinsale did a great job with what she had, though I would have liked to see just a bit more emotional range in her character.  Speedman was...okay..for the small part he had.  He too needed a little help in the emoting department though.  God help us..many of the vamp crew's acting was absolutely hilarious. Especially Viktor's slight hillbilly accent here and there.  But, I can deal with that.  Its not like this movie had the budget to hire a whole slew of A listers AND supply them with their 30 mil-a-piece paychecks AND bow to their expensive whims and demands.  We'd have had paper vampires had that been the case, cause that's all they'd have been able to afford.
And now, the werewolves.  I am extremely judgemental when it comes to the depiction of these fantasy creatures in movies and books.  I dont find any other fantasy creature quite as horrific and cool as the werewolf.  So when I saw the trailers for UW, I thought, "Oh God no..not more CG 'Paris' hairless dogs!!"  For the life of me..I wish cinema would go back to the good old days of fabulous make up work and leave the CG where it belongs...(in the Matrix).  HOWEVER, I found myself quite surprised when I saw them in the film.  They're well done, well lit, and the CG is very limited.  There are suits and makeup involved in close shots whereas the CG is only used for specific scenes...namely the 'wall crawling' scenes, which WOULD have been cool had they been better animated, but they were okay nonetheless.  Also, they werent shown in full light too much.  The very shape and sound of them was enough to scare you.  The trick to good horror is not showing stuff...leave it to the imaginations of the viewers, and they'll be a lot more afraid.  I do wish the wolves would have had just a little more airtime though...they really were very cool, and coming from me that's a big compliment.
Overall, this movie was quite good, despite some obvious flaws.  So it wasnt strikingly fresh and original...but is anything these days?  Please...  Go see this movie for what it is: a good gun-fightin, monster-warring goth fantasy flick.  Dont go in expecting Evian and peeled grapes and tormented actresses portraying deaf british writers...if you want that, go to an art house, and leave us plain-jane horror movie fans in peace.