"The Replacements" has been touted as a remake of "Major League". Nothing could be further from the truth... "Major League" is about a down and out professional baseball team with an owner that tried to destroy their indomitable spirit, only to inspire their manager to lead them on to victory. In "The Replacements", the owner, Ed O'Neil (Jack Warden), wants nothing more than to WIN after being abandoned by his overpaid professional players and coaches to an NFL strike. What they share are comedic and uplifting attributes. 
Desperate to achieve his goal, O'Neil hires a formerly "fired" head coach, Jimmy McGinty (Gene Hackman), who has an unorthodox approach to getting the job done. Jimmy takes on the job after O'Neil guarantees non-interference in the make-up of the "team". He then gathers a collection of players whom he believes have unrecognized and overlooked talent... athletes who, for the most part, failed to "shine" in the eyes of the NFL scouts.  
As he initially identifies the key players to his staff, the film switches to a brief clip of their present day existence... a key element to the plot. We see that he is virtually pulling people with athletic ability "off the street" into the arena of professional football. Concurrent to the formation of the team, the film includes an audition of various "ladies" to fill the positions of cheerleaders... as the season has progressed to having only four games remaining before the playoffs, I am presuming that these positions were vacated by the strike also. The lead cheerleader, Annabelle Farrell (Brooke Langton), has difficulty maintaining her composure as some of these auditions are absolutely hilarious. Annabelle is the #1 Sentinels fan. She doesn't date football players, especially quarterbacks. The film shifts between the auditions and the "practice" sessions where we see the players character development. 
Brilliantly portrayed is DEA agent Danny Bateman (Jon Favreau), an over aggressive line backer that is the epitome of a silent type with basic "animal instincts". Throughout the film, he "abuses" his teammates as much as the opposition. Bateman initially has disdain for Earl Wilkinson/Ray Smith (Michael Jace), a former pro football player serving time for assaulting police officers. "Smith" is "on loan" from the Maryland Penal System. The Jackson brothers, Jamal (Faizon Love) and Andre (Michael Taliferro), play the guards... both ON and OFF the field. Sumo wrestler Jumbo Fumiko (Ace Yonamine) brings elements of humor as a loveable character that you wouldn't care to have sit on you. The "preacher", Walter Cochran (Troy Winbush), is a former pro running back who's hope for fame had been dashed by a knee injury. Brian Murphy (David Denman), is a deaf receiver with a superior natural talent for running the patterns. The kicker, Nigel `The Leg' Gruff (Rhys Ifans), is a Welch soccer player with a gambling problem that can kick a ball the length of the field. Another brilliant performance is that of receiver Clifford Franklin (Orlando Jones), he could be the fastest man alive, he might be "hall of fame" material, too bad he can't catch a Twinkie... BUT he maintains his "I will survive" attitude up into the final moments of the film! To round out the team we have the quarterback, Shane Falco (Keanu Reeves)... a former brilliant college player that fell flat on his face during a bowl game. Keanu Reeves appears to be a natural for this roll... and with John Madden calling colorful play by plays with straight man commentary by Pat Summerall, his long time co-announcer, you at times forgot that THIS... IS A MOVIE! 
"The strikers", Eddie Martel (Brett Cullen), an unmotivated, mean-spirited, self serving, former superbowl winning QB, and his cohorts Wilson Carr (Archie L. Harris) and Malcolm La Mont (Evan Dexter Parke) provide ample controversy and tend to make "The Replacements" more endearing with every encounter that occurs in the plot. 
The story takes you through the four final weeks/games of the regular season. The Sentinels have to win three to make the playoffs... the only way they can do it is if everyone plays their absolute best... including the cheerleaders... who are an intricate part of their successes on the field. The team gets off to a rough start, they have trouble with the most basic element of the game... the huddle. They set new records for P E N A L T I E S. The choreography of the plays is superb with an abundance of humor. The dialogue has elements of corn, but also elements of inspiration. The team develops an admirable cohesion both on and off the field. They are two and one as "the strikers" cross picket line on the day before the fourth game against Dallas. Interspersed throughout the story are poignant introspective moments of various key characters. In the course of the plot, "The Replacements" prove to be very loyal and likeable characters. They become a TEAM, but for them, after game four, there is no tomorrow. 
So grab a beverage of choice and an assortment of munchies and sit back and enjoy this sometimes melodramatic, sometimes romantic, and mostly funny escape from reality. I'm not a big fan of professional football but after watching this film several times, I have discovered that football can really be very entertaining!