Drunken Master 2 is my favorite Jackie Chan movie, and one of my top ten movies of all time. For a while, I assumed I was going to be stuck with either the edited, dub-only Region 1 release, or the old uncut Thakral DVD, with lesser quality picture, incorrect aspect ratio, and grammatically incorrect English subtitles.

I admit, I ordered this the moment I saw that it was available. Chinese released with the original language with English subtitles? Uncut? Proper ratio? Sounded good to me. Well, it was good, up until the credits.

Let me get to that in a bit, first I'd like to point out that the end scene cut from Miramax's release has been put back in. The picture quality on it isn't as good as the rest of the movie, but oh well, its back, and with proper ratio. It was only when the ending song started playing that something went wrong.

In the original version, the credits song is performed by Chan himself (as he frequently does for his Hong Kong movies), but the moment they cut to the credits, they switched to the Miramax footage, complete with English credits AND SOUNDTRACK.

Yes, in the "uncut" version, the credits are taken from the Miramax version, and their rock n' roll instrumental piece plays when Chan's song should have. It's especially jarring, because Chan's song starts playing in the last few seconds of the movie, but then all of a sudden, it changes. Quite disappointing.

Aside from that, there are two English-subtitle tracks. There are the standard dub-titles for Miramax's dub, and the more literal translation for those watching the original language. Unfortunately, it is the same exact subtitle track released by Thakral years ago, still laden with spelling and grammatical errors.

Additionally, in the scene where Chan sings a drunken song in an outdoor restaurant, alternate takes from the Chinese masters were used when Miramax released it. The original footage has NOT been restored. The original audio is cut and slightly repeated at times to make the dialog LOOK like its following perfectly.

So, while this is by far the most complete release yet, there are still annoying imperfections. The edited version is still on this disc with both English dubs, and everything else advertised.

Myself? I am currently working on an editing project where I am combining the uncut soundtrack with the superior footage, and I am re-subtitling the whole movie to my best efforts. That will be my DVD, because it is what this film deserves.