Role call: Sabrina Duncan, Jill Munroe, Kelly Garret, Kris Munroe, Tiffany Wells, Julie Rodgers, John Bosley and Woodville(pilot only)- hey, I liked 'em all, even Julie and Tiff.

  Please hurry and release season 4 already, as I particularly liked "Caged Angel" where Kris goes to prison and infiltrates a criminal gang on the inside(who can forget Big Aggie- Agnes Kemp played by Shirley Stoler), and when the angels are stranded on the game reserve island and hunted down one by one by LLoyd Bochner. Those are the two stand out episodes of season 4. Oh my, I'm jumping ahead of myself when were supposed to be talking about Season 3.  For all you completists, I recommend you buying this volume because it's Sabrina's swan song-"Angels Remembered". The stand out villan of this season is Zora from "Angels In Springtime". Dr. Slavin, the hypnotherapist that attempted to give Kelly a hypodermic filled with sodium penthethol and Zora had a little more than just a "freindship" going on. As well as Mercedes McCambridge's character and the murdered actress Eve Le Duex. It seemed like every season had some strong armed, lesbian type-that's what made "Angels" so entertaining. The first season had prison corrections officer Maxine"Max" of Pine Parish farm prison for women and Inga, Moonshadow's masuess(mispelled). The second season had the russian Olga on her ice skates totting a real mean machine gun. The storyline was always so predictable. In the end, the angels were going to defeat the big, bad and the ugly surely. Sometimes, I would have prefered the angels to losing to the criminal or not exactly solving everything about a case just to make it more realistic. The only problem I had with the ending of the series is that of the repeated storyline with Kelly being shot again. Come on producers and writers, you guys could've done something fresh and original. Also maybe made ammends with Kate Jackson since she was an original angel, and invited her back along with Farrah. Hell, you also could of given Shelly Hack a cameo since it was referenced that she had to go back East for awhile at the beginning of the 5th seaon. So that was kind of a cop out of a way of writing a character out of a series. So the producers wanted to stick with the Kelly being shot idea-it would've been a treat for all of the fans for the five angels(past and present) and Bosley  too

that everyone be incorporated in the last episode. Again, come on Leonard Goldberg and co. it's the LAST show.  I'm sure that would've touched Charlie for sure as he was looking through the door's window to see everyone there being as family and watching over their fallen freind and angel.

  Julius-Allan Hernandez

  Chicago,Il.