Sad Story. The  parents, nor the gallery owner, nor journalists were familiar with the phases of children creative developement, and a perfectly normal kid was created "a prodigy." Lecture of <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0023721103">Creative and Mental Growth (8th Edition)</a> could identify that the girl was in fact in a phase of creative development that was not outside of typical. Child prodigies paint differently at this age.She was in the scribbling stage.(Movie maker seemed not knowlegeable about this either, but it is OK).

So, what was the fuss about it? Big  abstract canvases by four years old girl were selling for big amount of money, so big that an artist who has MFA  needs good years of really hard work and  exhibits record  in galleries and even some museums to get to such stage. Specially in competitive world of abstract painting good resume is important. Why this girl was so special?

She was a genius in the eyes of some. Enough  of hype was created, and enough of hope for future growth of prices for her children art. So, people were paying, without research. Kind of appeal to greed.Jumping to conclusion without enough information. Not even an expert in child art was consulted, but exhibits were organized, pictures were sold to hopeful collectors. But in reality not even an expert would be needed, anyone in degree in art education, or even anyone familiar with the stages in child's creative and mental phases could see what was really going on.(This is my comment, it was not in the movie).

In result a child of nice parents, (the father painting too, contributed to the problem), was given adult art materials: big canvases, good quality acrylic paint, big space for work, enough time, and good amount of coaching when girl's patience was fading. The results were big canvas similar to works of adult abstract expressionists.Abstract expressionists  rely on kinesthetic, gestural method in making art, and of course in such case results overlap.Children of this age are still in kinesthetic phase.And much was made of her results. For example we see the girl making a scribble, and giving a name to it, (typical in the phase of named scribbles, which arrives after unnamed scribbles), and for her father it was like some kind  of artistic revelation. (But visually talented kids at this age have stronger than usual  awareness of space, and can represent something, even are able to put a base line in their drawings, and create pictures more complex than abstraction).

The movie shows the hype surrounding the alleged "huge talent" of this girl, and those opinions were based on ignorance of the adults involved. When an expert comes in to examine the art, the results are different, quality of work (less intense coaching?), and the experts rightly explains that the girl's artistic  abilities are not unusual for her age. And now the backlash starts, after expert opinion was televised. There are accounts of hostile behavior and verbal aggression form people who probably were quite jealous before.Denial from people interested in selling and collecting girl's art.

This movie is an expose which asks many questions, not only if a child could paint it. It is not really about the art world, as this was a niche phenomenon. Parents, artist/gallery owner, niche collectors and sensationalizing media were involved, not real art world.

As for the girl: she starts to paint more representational, as time goes by,which is also age typical (moving toward the schematic stage of mental development which shows this way is art).

As for the question if your own child could do it? Yes.Probably not in atypical children art class, where a group of kids sits at the table, get children art materials, and relatively small papers to paint on, and no more than 1.5 hour. The art teachers who do projects on big canvases, on the floor, have results which are different than typical children art, which is circumstantial, of course.

If you get a drip cloth, prime it with child appropriate paint, and give huge amount of children tempera, leave huge space to work in without fear of spots, allow the child to explore, and coach gently. Note: adult paint is not good for children, even if is labeled non-toxic. What is non-toxic for an adult, might be really bad for a child, and in addition toxicity labels vary. For ex. in California requirements are strict regarding labeling, not in other states. In any case, for children only children art materials approved for them. You may work in phases, not considering the piece finished after the first attempt. Make sure there are no white spots in the background, that all is covered with color. Make sure don't mix paint too much to make colors muddy. And voila! you will have results which go along with the esthetic expectations how adult abstract art should look like. Art teachers were and are capable of doing that (maybe not yours, for some restrictive reasons, but are not trying to pass such children art as something unusual.

I hope this documentary will make people aware that is not necessary to jump to conclusions right away when seeing children art which looks less familiar to anything what we have seen in children art. It really depends what we see.Quite often the final result is a product of several circumstances which came together.