To borrow an old cliche, "Dances With Wolves" isn't a cup of tea everyone will enjoy.
The naysayers will usher out the usual complaints: Too long... Too slow... Subtitles... Blah, blah, blah...
But this cup of tea is meant to be sipped and savored, not guzzled.
I already had the special edition on VHS, and I held out buying the film's DVD until now. The special edition "Dances With Wolves" is a prized addition to my DVD collection.
This is a rare "extended version" of a film in that the added scenes truly add to the story and enhance the movie-watching experience. Yes, this edition of "Dances With Wolves" is longer, but it is also better.
Among the extra scenes, one stands out. It depicts the Sioux's brutal, some would even dare say "savage" side as they essentially dismember the white hunters who slaughtered bisons for their hids but let the meat rot. (We see the aftermath of what the tribe's warriors did to the hunters, not the actual killings.)
All the extra footage blends well with the original "Dances With Wolves." This film has seamless editing, and I actually like how the time is taken to let the story unfold slowly. Too many movies seem rushed to me -- and I, in turn, feel rushed watching them.
"Dances With Wolves" gives you quiet moments to absorb the information and enjoy the absolutely majestic cinematography as the story develops.
Let me also list the accolades most commonly associated with this Best Picture winner -- by those who agree it is a masterful epic: Authentic acting, glorious images and great, old-fashion story telling. And don't forget the score. The music is a perfect match for the film, and contributes greatly to settng the mood.
Then there's that buffalo hunt scene, widely considered "Dances With Wolves" most rousing moment. It truly is among the most impressive five minutes ever captured on film, especially as you realize these big beasts are the "real deal."
Today, directors would resort to digital animation. We are actually seeing a herd of 3,000 snorting bisons rambling across the prairie and a genuine reenactment of a Sioux buffalo hunt. Amazing!
Finally, I found the featurettes on Disc 2 superior to the general Making Of... fluff tacked onto most DVDs. These "Dances With Wolves" documentaries are done in retrospect, 12 years removed from when the film was actually made, as Kevin Costner and practically all the other principals associated with the film look back on the film-making experience.
They all seem to realize, with great pride, "Dances With Wolves" is their crowning achievement. This movie was also obviously a labor of love for all involved, and it shows.