In my opinion, Wes Craven is rather hit or miss when it comes down to his movies.  Sometimes he can hit the sweet spot like with A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET or THE PEOPLE UNDER THE STAIRS.  Or sometimes he can hit rock bottom with such films as CURSED, MUSIC OF THE HEART (which is not even a Horror movie) and VAMPIRE IN BROOKLYN.  Sure, he's responsible for the SCREAM movies, but none of his sequels to that series really matched up to the level of original one.  Not to mention all the "copy cat" Slasher wanna be's that followed after it.  Thank goodness that phase is over with!

Well it would seem that 1988 was a good year for Mr. Craven, because THE SERPENT AND THE RAINBOW is one of his best films!  This was and still is one of my favorite Horror movies from my childhood.  I can remember renting this movie back in the day and being swept away in it's eerie atmosphere, great acting and horrifying dream sequences.  Also, there is a pretty unbearable torture scenes half way through the film that involves a nail being driven into a man's more "sensitive" spot.  If you haven't seen the movie yet, I'll leave that one to your imagination.

Bill Pullman (always enjoyable) plays Dennis Alan, a professor from Harvard who is doing research on Zombification in Haiti.  He meets a young and attractive local Doctor who helps him in finding a specific yellow powder that makes people appear to be dead.  Meanwhile, the local government officials don't like professor Alan snooping about in forbidden areas.  Eventually things spiral out of control for our hero as impending forces from all directions threaten them with torture, zombies and being buried alive!

The direction of this movie is like a mix between Ridley Scott and William Peter Blatty, through the eye's of Wes Craven.  Also, THE SERPENT AND THE RAINBOW has a very haunting CANNIBAL HOLOCAUST vibe to it, despite no real cannibalism even happens in this movie.  It just has that desolate, "out of the element" feeling to it that a lot of late 1970's exploitation films had, without being exploitation.  American's like to see the unusual and exotic.  Wes Craven brings that to the plate without compromising any of the real culture involved.  This is truly one of his best films and it's a shame that he doesn't make more like this.

I read somewhere that the actual person who this movie is about (Wade Davis), bashed this movie when it first came out.  If you don't look at it as being 100% factual (like THE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE and THE AMITYVILLE HORROR), this can be a pretty enjoyable little Horror movie.  It's not your usual zombie movie and it's definitely not your usual Wes Craven film either.  Not until the very end do you even see any real "Horror" type of special effects.  When you finally do, it's also a treat because there are some pretty nightmarish things that happen.  Some of it even seems like it would fit right in with a Freddy Krueger movie!

Gore wise, this movie has got the goods!  Rotting zombies, disgusting beheadings and someone being burned alive all round out this great Horror movie!  Gore Hounds, check out a scene halfway through the movie where Bill Pullman is having a nightmare in a grave yard!  It's not really bloody but the make-up used on the rotting corpse is particularly nasty!  The scene ends with a giant snake coming out of it's mouth and biting Bill Pullman right in the face!

Over all this is a great Horror movie that should work with most audiences.  If you haven't seen it already, give it a try.  You could do much worse, like watching RED EYE instead!

Over and out.