The world could do with a good science fiction parody. This isn't it. Everyone involved with this show forgot the basic idea behind a comedy: being funny.

Right from the opening theme you know you're in trouble. The music is a definite reference to Star Trek, but the visuals are nothing but trite sci-fi cliches. Couldn't they have done something a little bit funny for the opening they'd show every week? I don't think the idea occurred to them. (I almost forgot-- Conrad Janis does something weird with his eyes. ha freakin' ha)

The pilot episode should be banned forever as a form of unbearable torture. The second episode shows that serious re-thinking of the show was done, and a new character, Ficus was added. They should have re-thought the idea of doing the show at all. From the unbearable torture of the pilot episode, the remaining episodes sometimes make it all the way up to "really lame".

Ficus actually is the best part of the show, but perhaps Star Trek's Spock is just so parody-able. But as you watch Ficus, you end up wishing that you could transport him out of this show into one that had decent writers and decent co-stars.

Richard Benjamin (Quark) has all the comic presence and timing of a used tea bag. With him as the star, it wouldn't matter if the writing didn't stink, the direction didn't stink, and the visuals didn't stink. Benjamin is enough to sink the show on his own.

The other actors appear game, but they don't have anything to work with. The character of Gene/Jean is just stupid. Betty and Betty have nothing to do. Andy the robot sounds like his lines were written by a third-grader.

A comedy has the right to use some really bad special effects. And if they had tried to work that angle, there could have been some laughs. But they want to be impressive and then make such stupid mistakes as using exactly the same model ships to represent both the good guys and the bad guys. Done with a wink and a smile, that could have been funny. But since it was done deadly serious, I was left wondering what the heck was supposed to be going on.

A total waste of time and money.