I ultimately object to NBK's theme, but it's a good movie in a general sense: well done and fun to watch.
Mickey and Mallory, although they're murderers, have more life in them than anyone else in the movie. They are given superhuman strength and vitality (or, perhaps, merely human, contrasted with a subhuman society) as characterization---it's their will, their love and defiance that are strong; these manifest themselves physically in an age that worships violence. Compare Mickey with George Bernard Shaw's Don Juan: "[He] follows his own instincts, without regard to the common, statute, or canon law; and therefore, whilst gaining the ardent sympathy of our rebellious instincts (which are flattered by the brilliances with which [he] associates them), finds himself in mortal conflict with existing institutions, and defends himself by force as unscrupulously as a farmer defends his crops against vermin."
And the institutions here are like vermin. Tommy Lee Jones' cop is genuinely sadistic, Robert Downey Jr.'s reporter is genuinely amoral, and "Officer Scagnetti" is genuinely depraved, sick, and psychotic. The authorities are old, tired, practically impotent: they don't dare attack M & M till they've stun-gunned and maced them. To the extent that NBK exposes the moral hypocrisy of modern society, I dig it. This movie tears the mask off of our appetite for murder news and it assigns sadistic law enforcers to a lower rung in hell than criminals. The fact that we needed such a wake-up call is more frightening than the film's violence.
Of this violence much has been said; to me, it was cartoony and not usually disturbing. Only one of the movie's three really horrifying moments is violent: when Jones, jumping at the opportunity for cruelty, clamps a convict's nose with pliers. The other two scenes I mean are these: When Downey Jr. decides he's a natural born killer, dumps his wife and calls his mistress; and when Scagnetti, alone in the cell with Mallory, gets so delirious with erotic excitement that it's sickening to watch.
M & M are the only moral people in the film---except the Indian. The Indian alone avoids being a sheep or parasite without becoming a murderer. But he has no motive except detached resignation to fate. Mickey repeatedly invokes fate, too; but he's fate's agent, not its patient.  This brings me to my objection to Oliver Stone's movie.
The killers are born killers; the weak are (presumably) born weak. The cop & the anchorman who try to become killers cannot do so, even when they kill: they remain weak; they can't change their fate. Yet they are the ones in authority, with law and "morality" on their side. It seems Oliver Stone is spinning the old yarn about laws and moral codes being merely devices whereby the weak chain the strong. (Note the scene where the prison is opened.) Stone joins his villians in secretly worshipping Mickey and Mallory: it's a tradition as old as sophistry. Our age doesn't need Stone---it needs Socrates.