The release of Godzilla vs Space Godzilla and Godzilla vs Destroyer marks the first High Quality American release of these two films. The previous VHS  versions of these films were poor quality SLP and badly cropped,  destroying the original composition. The DVD is both widescreen and  enhanced for 16/9 high definition Televisions. The surround sound is well  done, though lacks the punch of the original Import laserdiscs . The  picture is excellent, with only a little artifacting occasionaly noticable.  The only demerit would be the poor dubbing job for both films , that makes  them seem cheaper than they are. Tri-Star should have re-done the dubbing,  or better yet, Provide the original Japanese language tracks for people who  would prefer subtitles. The films are the last 2 of the HEISEI series, and  are both greatly enjoyable. SPACEGODZILLA is a lighter movie, filled with  great action sequences and a clever, if sometimes confusing plot. Visualy  the film is a treat. The effects are more stylized than realistic,  something common to Japanese films, and sometimes off putting to American  viewers. The weakest effects are a space battle between The MOGERA robot  and Space Godzilla, but it's so well edited and colorful that it can be  forgiven. The final battle is great. The film can best be described as a  1970s Godzilla film that was GOOD! (unlike the real 1970s films that were  pretty bad. Some people have disliked this film, but most seem to have  understood that this was a FUN film, and went along for a great ride!  Godzilla vs Destroyer is the last Godzilla film of this series, and is a  dark, apocoliptic film, capturing much of the mood of the original GODZILLA  movie. The effects supervisor, Kochi Kawakita, actually had less money and  time than any Godzilla film since 1989s BIOLLANTE, (less than 3  months! )which make the effects even more impressive. Godzilla's attack of  Hong Kong and his death are the visual highlights. The plot is well done,  with nice echos, both thematically and visually. The movie proves a fitting  end to Godzilla, and a must have for any Kaiju fan. After screwing up the  previous DVD release of GODZILLA vs GHIDORAH and GODZILLA vs MOTHRA (both  were mono and cropped! ) Tri star should be congratulated for not making  the same error. I hope to see MECHA GODZILLA on DVD Soon!