<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00008OE4W">Sneakers (Collector's Edition)</a>
Hello, Space Fans: I thought I'd clue you in to a little known secret [too many secrets] in the Spy movie genre. It's
a cute little story about a really mixed up group who've been called in to do a spy job for someone in the Govt. that
can't risk being caught. And they ARE MIXED UP! A blind sound man who is so good he can identify frequency tones by ear.
{I toured a radio station once where they had a blind DJ. They had Braile tape marked the commercial cartridges so he
could identify them. He MUST HAVE been GOOD!}

Anyway, (not to give too much away), they had to break-in, get past security, in a toy company office of all things;
to try and find and retrieve a "black box". Well they found it and got it. Then they find out WHAT THE CHIP IN THE
BLACK BOX WILL DO!! And it becomes obvious why all of a sudden, the police want to kill them, the U.S. Govt. want's
to kill them, and several foreign Govt.s want to kill them too. You will know why too, when you BUY THIS DVD MOVIE
and watch it. It'll become so habit-forming, you'll want to watch it over-and-over again, until you can figure out
all the angles going on at the same time.

Believe me when I say: I know Danny Aykroyd, from when he was filming in Chicago years ago and stayed in my building.
And I've kept in touch with the acting community for years since I started as an extra in "The Blues Brothers" (also
in Chicago). And I know for a fact that virtually EVERY ACTOR wants to work at least once with Robert Redford, who is
absolutely one of the most generous people I know in the acting community. But also, because I met River Phoenix years
ago when he and his sister Rain (Rainbow) were singing outside the entrance of UCLA to make money to help feed the
family. That was when he was about 10 years old.

Anyway, that's it. I really think you'll LOVE this film!!

I THINK this book, the newest biography on River Phoenix is available here on Amazon.com also.
NEW BOOK AVAILABLE: by author & friend
Barry C. Lawrence, titled: "In Search Of RIVER PHOENIX:
The Truth Behind The Myth"  [...]
  ISBN:  0967249198

"Lonesome George" Andrews