If you're looking for a movie to leave you with a warm, fuzzy feeling at the end...then this is not for you! It is a visual essay as much as it is an anthology of scientific and philosophical musings. The film is about two  brothers - Oliver &amp; Oswald Deuce (played by Eric &amp; Brian Deacon),  zoologists by profession, whose wives die in a car accident. The driver,  Alba Bewick (played by Andrea Ferreol) ends up with an amputated leg.  Oliver &amp; Oswald in their quest for details about the accident end up in  a three-way love affair with Alba. The brothers become obsessed with decay,  while Alba becomes obsessed with her one leg and eventually has her doctor  amputate it as well. After the accident, the brothers engage in  philosophical and scientific conversations about the beginnings of life on  earth, evolution and the mechanics of decomposition. Soon after the  accident Oswald says "I can't bear the thought of her (his wife) just  rotting away." Then the Deuce brothers begin a conversation about how  the decomposition of a body begins, the intestinal bacteria that set off  the process and how in one lick of the human tongue the are 100,000 of  these bacteria. And how Adam might have passed 200,000 of them onto Eve in  a French Kiss. Then one of them says "What if Eve kissed Adam?" -  "Unlikely! She would have used the first 100,000 (bacteria) on the  apple" This is absolutely hilarious... they are having a hypothetical  conversation about Genesis as if Adam &amp; Eve were the true origin of  mankind, when in reality, as scientists they cannot take such religious  concepts seriously. At one point Oliver is watching a film on the evolution  of species and the narrator says "If evolution had happened in a span  of 365 days, then, man made his first appearance on the evening of December  31 just as daylight is fading." We hear the narrator of these  documentaries on evolution a number of times in the background, later we  hear him saying "...it is difficult for people to comprehend the  evolutionary leap between the most sophisticated of apes to MAN, and more  difficult still how LIFE could emerge out of NOTHING." College-level  biology students and philosophy students would enjoy this film. The  contrast between the moral and the perverse becomes increasingly  intensified in the film with the use of philosophical quotes and excerpts.  For example, when we are introduced to a woman named Venus DeMilo, she's  dressed in black going into the zoo (where the Deuce brothers work) and a  man with whom she obviously had sexual encounters asks her "How are  the zebras?" In a very indifferent tone she answers, "Black and  White." That is a wordplay on the aristotelian, objectivist, Ayn Rand  idea of the black and white, good and evil. Venus DeMilo makes it very  clear she finds obejctivism tedious, and the question of whether the zebra  is a "black animal with white stripes or a white animal with black  stripes" is irrelevant. There is a scene in the film which I found  particularly intriguing, Venus DeMilo and Oliver are naked on the bed  (presumably after a sexual encounter) and he has a tray full of live  snails. He plays with the snails while she rants on and on with superficial  small talk. Then she asks, "Why do you like snails so much?"  Oliver says, "They're a primitive form of life... they help the world  DECAY! They're also hermaphrodite... they can satisfy their own sexual  needs!" Which in the context of things could be taken to be an  indicator of the degree of contempt he feels toward having to resort to her  for sexual satisfaction.  Later when he's visiting a recovering Alba,  Oliver blames her for the death of his wife. At this time we learn that  Alba was ten weeks pregnant. Olivers says "It's your fault my wife is  dead. Pregnant women are notoriously unreliable...especially when they're  trying to procure an abortion!" Later in the film, Alba announces to  the brothers that she's pregnant. Oliver and Oswald want to know who the  father is. Alba says, "As far as I'm concerned you are both the  fathers...what's a few SPERMATOZOA among brothers?" Then while the three  of them are in bed Alba announces to them that she can tell they are twins.  Oliver and Oswald admit to it, saying that even their wives never knew they  were twins, and furthermore they were siamese twins.  A Zed and Two Noughts  is deeply intellectual at times, very irreverent, silly, and hystecally  funny. Goes over the top in just about every scene. Writer and Director  Peter Greenaway  is brilliant. I have seen two other films by him: Drowning  by Numbers and Prospero's Books. Both were beautifully photographed as is A  Zed and Two Noughts. Art students should enjoy Peter Greenaway's use of  chiaroscuro in his sets, the atmospheres created in his films through the  use of light and shadow are magnificent. The characters in the film are  like caricatures, much like people in real life. The film blurs the line  between humans as the superior creatures certain philosophies claim them to  be and the primitive, hairless apes they remain at their very core...their  self-awareness notwithstanding. This film is a must see for the Liberal  Arts Student.