I rented this set of DVD's and haven't bought them yet.  I'm going to though.  The X-files had me hooked from the beginning.  It was so well crafted all the way around it was like watching big screen movies on my television each week.  The seasons after Mulder I admit I went into with a grimace.

I'd waited so long for Mulder and Scully to get together that the fact that David Duchovny was leaving had me at a loss for the show.  Although he left during season 8.  I wanted to review season 9's dvd's.  They have wonderful extra features.

The main reason I am writing this review is that there was a major back lash over the casting of Robert Patrick as Agent John Doggett.  But I found him charasmatic on screen.  The tough cop turned agent soon deligated to the X-files wasn't something I was complaining about so much anymore.  He was different and brought a new spin on the series.  Although they retained the spirit of the show with the Alien Conspiracy, etc.  I felt that he could easily keep me viewing.  He's not a traditional looking leading man so his talent needed to be top notch and I felt it was.  He made me care about Agent Doggett even when my Mulder/Scully fan side was screaming a resounding "NOOOO."  I'm glad I gave this season a chance.

I won't say every show was excellent there are a couple I didn't care for fully, but I still will watch them over and over again.  This series never gets old for me.  There is always something new I pick up on that I didn't the last time.

Don't miss out on Season 9 because of preconcieved notions there are wonderful X-files story rivaling Mulder and Scully only with a little different twist.

My only complaint with the X-files DVD series in all 9 boxed sets is that they didn't price them lower for people like me who'd love to have them but can't shell out anywhere from $65-110 per season.  To have the complete collection it runs about $700-800 which is a large investment and I continually ask myself do I really need to spend the money on them.  But I do want to and know I will eventually.  They are well worth it.