Being there...  I think about the title of this wonderful (and I mean that in the most literal way) story written by Jerzy Kozinski and I realize exactly why that title was picked.  Being There is a terrific story of Chance the Gardiner who must move out of the estate in which he has lived and worked for the duration of his life because The Old Man, to whom the estate belonged, has died.  Because Chance has never been outside the walls of that Manhattan townhouse, and because he has a certain degree of mental debilitation, he knows not how to interact with the world around him, except for what he has learned from his faithful television.  Chance immediately is thrust into a world full of people who perceive him for anything other than what he is, whether a financier, a presidential advisor, or a mysterious international figure.  Chance (Peter Sellers, Pink Panther movies) happens to "be there" every chance that life offers him, allowing him to become a truly international media figure.
Sellers really does sell the audience his portrayal of the main character.  Through facial expressions and bewildering looks, the viewer understands that Chauncy Gardiner only understands the life of a garden and the social graces and knowledge that he acquired from his television.  When people ask him to contribute to their conversations, he consciously abstains, not knowing the subject.  When Gardiner finally understands a question or a point made by another person, he answers the only way he knows how, by talking about the garden.  The other main player in the story is Eve Rand a woman, who like every other part of Gardiner's life throughout the story, becomes intricately and closely involved with Chance.  Though her character is heavily involved in the plot of the movie, I thought she was relatively undefined and obscure.  At times, she seems a "gold-digger," while at others, she is a well-to-do social butterfly with many connections in the political world.  I found it rather confusing and insincere.
Not much can be said about the making of the film itself.  The photography is rather unexciting and the editing is something that one barely notices if at all.  However, do not let that detract you from seeing the film.  I believe the (for lack of a better word) blandness of the movie contributes to the theme of simplicity.  
The writing, which can be credited to both Kozinski and Robert C. Jones, who wrote the screenplay, powerfully offsets the simplicity of the filmmaking.  The dialogue is witty and fun, while being intelligent.  Rather than the simplicity of the main character overwhelming the dialogue, it contributes to the entertainment value of story in a way that can only be experienced through watching the movie (or reading the book, of course.)
The film holds fairly true to the book, though there are some differences.  Upon reading the book and seeing the movie, I decided that the book was more enjoyable because the reader is able to experience Chance's thoughts whereas the viewer is left to speculate.  This makes the story much more full and enjoyable, I think.
Overall, I enjoyed the movie, with a few exceptions, and would recommend to anyone to see it.  It is thought provoking at times, while being fun and smart.