Operas are either recorded with stage microphones only or stage microphones combined with wireless body microphones. If only stage microphones are used, the sound of the voices will vary depending on the direction the singer is facing. If he is close to the microphone and faces it, the voice will sound best. If he sings sideways to a partner or sings from the rear of the stage, the voice will be recorded less loud. This actually replicates the experience the audience has at the live performance, but is often magnified  as microphones have uneven directional sensibility.
For best audio for the live audience, the performers often stand up front and sing towards the audience, making it a somewhat static production. Or they act and move around, making it a less pleasant audio experience with the voices going up and down in loudness.
Voila, in comes the body microphone, which picks up the sound regardless which way the singer faces. Thus you can get recorded sound from an opera that actually sounds better on a disk than in a live performance, if body microphones are used.

A good demonstration can be had with the L.A. La Traviata with Fleming/Villazon/Conlon, which is a stage microphones only recording vs. the Milano version with Gheorghiu/Vargas/Maazel, which uses body microphones.

While the picture quality is pretty much even in both performances and very good, the voices in the surround sound track fluctuate constantly as the principals move around in the L.A version, while they are rock solid in the Milano version.
This alone makes the Milano version preferable for me.
In addition, the orchestra and the chorus are recorded with a wider sound stage and give me more the feeling of sitting in one of the front rows. Furthermore, I think Gheorghiu plays the part of Violetta better than Fleming. While I enjoy Villazon in Romeo and Juliet (body mics.), I prefer a steady Vargas over an "up and down" Villazon. The only one quite steady in the L.A performance is Bruson, who moves little and sings to the front.  But Frontali is an acceptable Giorgio for me.

So 5 stars for Milano, only 3 for L.A., mostly based on the recording technique used.

Another Traviata recording I have using body microphones is the Bonfadelli/Piper/Domingo DVD, which has a 5.1 surround track. While the picture is not as good, it is well recorded with the sound stage a little less wide, but the voices are very clear and the balance with chorus and orchestra is the best of the 3. The acting (directed by Zeffirelli) especially of Bonfadelli, is also the most convincing. If it were available in HD, it would be a toss-up with the Milano version for me and would get 5 stars, too.