THE COMPLETE SUPERMAN COLLECTION contains all 17 of the Superman cartoons produced from 1941 to 1943 by Paramount Pictures. After years of bad public domain video copies of these same cartoons, the visual quality of the prints seen on this DVD is breathtaking. (All were transferred flawlessly from original 35mm Technicolor prints.) It should be pointed out that the first nine of the Superman cartoons were produced by cartoon pioneer Max Fleischer (creator of Betty Boop) and directed by his brother, Dave Fleischer. The remaining eight cartoons were produced after the Fleischers left Paramount and were made by house directors at the revamped Paramount/Famous Studio cartoon unit. There is no discernible loss in quality. In fact, the remaining eight all break free from the formula established by the Fleischers and offer some of the real surprises on this disc. All the cartoons boast incredibly beautiful and imaginative imagery. 
A few notes on some of the individual cartoons:
"Billion Dollar Limited" (1942)
Almost nonstop movement and action as a robbery gang tries to derail a train carrying a billion dollars in gold to the mint. Lois Lane even picks up a Tommy gun at one point to fire at the attackers.
"The Arctic Giant" (1942)
Features a giant dinosaur on the rampage in Manhattan (not Metropolis!). Visible landmarks include the Museum of Natural History and Yankee Stadium. Looks forward to both THE BEAST FROM 20,000 FATHOMS and GODZILLA.
"Electric Earthquake" (1942)
Interestingly, the mad scientist villain is an American Indian who demands the return of Manhattan to his people. When his demand is dismissed, he sets off earthquakes on Manhattan by using giant electrical connectors plugged into the island's bedrock underwater.
"Eleventh Hour" (1942)
An astounding wartime cartoon as both Clark Kent and Lois Lane are held prisoner in Yokohama by the Japanese. Clark breaks out every night, as Superman, to sabotage Japanese battleships. Lois Lane is even taken before a firing squad at one point.
"Secret Agent" (1943)
A straight-ahead crime thriller with car chases in the streets of Metropolis and shootouts with police as a beautiful blonde undercover agent tries to get to Washington with a list of spies and saboteurs. The last of the Superman cartoons and one of the best. 
If only other American animation producers had taken the lead established by these cartoons and begun doing serious, comic book-based action and science fiction-themed cartoons. As it stands, it took about 30 years for Japan's animators to take up the cause and give us exemplary action and sci-fi animation on a par with the Superman cartoons.