This is the top rated HBO special of Diana Ross's triumphant Caeser's Palace concert.

The Queen of Motown soars vocally in this spectacle that opens with an ethereal rendition of Ain't No Mountain High Enough followed by a fabulous recital of Touch Me In The Morning.  Dazzling video effects, a Mae West-esque Bob Mackie gown, and a diva in fine voice are to die for.

Powerful renditions of Home, God Bless The Child and My Man showcase Ross at her best (pity Motown rarely recorded her singing with such gusto on her albums). Home, in particular, serves as a reminder as to why critics heralded Whitney Houston as the next Diana Ross when she burst onto the scene (Whitney made her national television debut performing Home on the Merv Griffen show).

People often forget that Ross set the benchmark in terms of having the most lavish productions in her heyday (yes, she was the Madonna of her time).  This concert not only serves as a testament to Ross's legacy as one of music's greatest performers, but also reminds us that they simply don't make 'em like they used to.  Not many of today's performers can work the stage in the vein of music's greatest veterans (Ross, Barbra Streisand, Aretha Franklin, Tina Turner and Cher).  The flash of special effects, the wow of gorgeous gowns, and the sound of big notes are fine and dandy, but it's the ability to create an intimate connection and the ability to cast a magical spell over the audience that really counts.

Ross's 1979 album, The Boss was a key emphasis of the show as it highlighted her growing independence and artistic control in Motown.  The Boss was to Miss Ross as Control was to Miss Jackson.  Speaking of Janet, you can't but wonder if brother Michael caught this show and came up with his own version of Bad after watching Diana here.

Ross, ever the Goddess, closes the show with her trademark Do You Know Where You're Going To/ Ain't No Mountain High Enough medley elevated atop the arms of her dancers.  Very Diva. Very Diana.  The encore number, All For One (One For All) was later adopted as the title of Ross's historic Central Park concert in 1983.

A must-see for fans, musicologists and diva worshippers.  Enjoy!