Pixar movies are known for artistic achievements in the fields of computer animation; and for their accesible storytelling, which is even true at the film considered most "adult" by many audiences: The Incredibles.

Many critics have panned "Cars" by calling it cliched and predictable, cheesy and formulaic. Yes, it might be cliched and predictable, it might have a lot of cheese and it follows the "we-teach-you-sound-values" formula. But then, why is it that this movie is striking a chord on many people? Maybe is it because we have precisely forgotten about these values?

In this era and age of Instant Messaging, Blackberry, "Date Movies" and Tarantino gore, sometimes you welcome an effort like "Cars". You need to be reminded that we get so stuck in our own goals, our jobs, our careers and where we want to get, that we tend to forget what's important and to take a pause and enjoy all the blessings surrounding us. And that's the message this movie brings us, which is a lot deeper that the "talking car" facade might lead us to believe.

Lightning McQueen is a hot-shot rookie in the world of stock car racing; he's so much into his own success and arrogance he has forgot the fact no one is an island. He will get a heavy dose of reality while being lost, finding Route 66, a forgotten town, love and friendship; while learning about a place that was scratched off the map because of so-called "progress".

Sometimes a message like that is stronger if we take the context out of our own backgrounds and place them somewhere else. And that's precisely what Pixar does by bringing fantasy characters that have some credibility on them (talking cars that actually bend and move like real cars) to that context, while not forgetting the comedy and a lot of humor. So many jokes are there you'll need the DVD version to get them all.

The soundtrack is dead on-target, from the rockin' "Real Gone" by Sheryl Crow, serving as an almost operatic introduction to McQueen to the teary "Our Town" by James Taylor and a nice version of "Life is a Highway" by Rascal Flatts.

Yes, the movie is a bit long, but we in the audience at the theatre didn't really feel it; you won't help but feel identified with the characters: my girlfriend and I looked at some scenes in which McQueen and Sally Carrera (Bonnie Hunt) were involved, and we saw ourselves reflected at those characters and personalities (Yes, I'm a tad cocky and career-oriented, sorry folks).

I'm not a fan of Disney movies and I have entirely avoided animation pictures, including all of Pixar's previous efforts, except for The Incredibles on HBO. But something told me I should watch this one, and I am not disappointed. There must be something powerful about an animated movie that makes you put your life into a new perspective, and finish your day praying and thanking God for all the wonderful things you enjoy, most especially your family and friends.

Life is indeed a journey, and there a lot of things to be enjoyed and learned while you get to your destination, including friendship and sportsmanship. And that message some people might call "dated" to be reflected in movies, is precisely the kind of message I'd like to bring and pass to my children, if I ever am blessed to have them.