As a rule, I always a rent a movie before I consider it worthy enough to buy it to watch again from time to time. In this case, I rented this DVD of Wonder Woman recently. I did saw Justice League: the New Frontier movie last year, and was very impressed with it (four stars). Sadly, this animated movie of Wonder Woman did not live up to my expectations. The Wonder Woman TV series is something I remembered for a long time and Lynda Carter who played Wonder Woman do always held a special place in my heart. I would say the Wonder Woman TV series was much better than the animated movie, especially when it comes to imitate real world situations, real life human interaction and communication, and real world politics. But who am I kidding to? The Wonder Woman video is, basically, a cartoon movie, and it seems only good enough for fanboys and people with arrested adolescent developments. The movie is definitely not for little kids or girls, due to the not-so-obvious nude scenes, the quite-so-obvious sexual connotations, the violent scenes with killing (with little or no blood shown) and beheading situations.

My biggest beefs with this animated movie are the script, the plot, and the dialogue/interaction between characters. Was the plot outlined and scripted by an adolescent while the movie was in production? How did intelligent people in this animation business let this "crap" (as Steve Trevor so fondly said often) flew right by, produced, assembled, finalized and distributed it en masse? There were exchanges in some scenes that rolled my eyes, the poor attempt in real-word conversations reduced the movie to college-level, frat-boy entertainment. Half of the time, I wanted to press "stop" and return the video back to the store, but the other half of me decided to suck it up and watched it to the very end, thanks to some well-done animation scenes (minus the dialogue, the plot and interactions). The final battle between Wonder Woman and Ares in, of all places, Washington, DC seems very outlandish and ridiculous but, again, this is a cartoon movie not for the little kids, but grrrreat for fanboys who grew up reading Wonder Woman comics and watching Superman, Batman and Justice League animations.

The message about bringing and promoting peace between men and women in a world of chaos, strife and war seems eternal but naive in this movie, but that's my opinion. The survival of men and women is based on human nature, not peace.

Few things I wanted to address to the creators of this Wonder Woman movie: first, this Steven Trevor in the movie does not do US Air Force personnel any justice, most USAF pilots are professional, upstanding, hard-working people who fly million-dollar aircraft in high-risk missions, and they do not speak and act like this sexist-pigish Steven Trevor character (George Perez's Steven Trevor character was way better in the revised WW comic series! Why the downgrade?). Second, there are few plot holes in the movie: where did the invisible jet or books in the Amazon Island come from? How did the Amazons speak in the 20th century language when they were separated and invisible from the man's world for few thousands years? Especially, how did Ares knows and speaks Latin when he is supposed to be a Greek god of war? Third, why reduce the language between men and women to the level of juvenile, chauvinistic connotations? Fourth, why the Amazons and Wonder Woman not aware of real world politics and diplomatic efforts by notable peoples working hard for peace? Lastly, why did you let an adolescent wrote the script for the movie and let it fly?!

Animation is well-done for the most parts. The juvenile-laden script and plot holes killed it. Great for fanboys, not great for the little kids and girls. I await the day when a live-version movie of Wonder Woman come out very professionally done, with real-world connotations and grown-up adult interaction (when if it has to come to the absurd, tiresome "battle of the sexes", *sigh*).