This review refers to a specific scene, but is indicative of how i feel about the entire film.

"Did you find your Indies, John?" Pohcahantas to John Smith from Terrence Malick's The New World. That line has the extreme, slap in the face power of a "f*** you", if that particular four-letter word actually held any weight in our culture anymore. It's akin, for me, to the PJ Harvey song "Oh My Lover" in which she drones/croons "Oh. My. Lover. Don't you know it's alright. You can love her, you can love me at the same time." That kind of spit-in-your-face stops you in your tracks. It wakes you out of the monotony of the daily routine, makes you sit up and face the reality and the weight of the situation at hand. In a way, it's that kind of biting exchange that makes us most aware of our mortality. It snarls, "You will die, and soon, stop trying to convince yourself (or distract yourself) otherwise." That may be going a bit further than the oringinal quotation intended, but I mean just that it has that same "WAKE UP!" type power.

What is amazing about that particular scene in The New World is that Malick doesn't let his characters or his scene deliver that punch and then move on. Or worse, he doesn't allow his characters to boastfully revel in it's impact. Instead he, quite patiently, allows Smith to feel the full weight of the remark, and then has him reply simply, heartbreakingly, "I think I may have sailed passed them."

The dialogue itself isn't incredibly well written, it's not witty or terrifically precise or terribly smart. In fact, in many ways it's a perfectly transparent scene. It's veil is so thin it borders on insulting. It walks that fine line, perfectly, however. It's impact is what makes it tremendous. You feel the impact because of the weight Malick has given to the characters and the film up until this point. He has built up, as the film critic Matt Zoller Seitz referred it, a Cathedral. For all that we've seen and gone through with these characters and within the themes Malick presents so gracefully throughout, we are truly slapped in the face with that line.

Mostly, for me, it's Malick's patient, wise, reverent style that brings this out the most. You see it on Smith's face, but the camera stays back, waiting. You feel the silence (oh how Malick uses silence!) after Pohcahontas makes the remark and even the stinging resonance of the awkward silence before she opens her mouth. You feel Smith's lack of anything to say, his lack of breath for that moment; because you have the wind knocked out of you as well. Then your heart breaks as his does. You feel his quiet realization and acceptance of his fate. You feel the tragedy. She's right there. He was lost, he didn't act rightly, he didn't treat her fairly, and he knows it. There no longer exists the lie he had told on his behalf to hide behind. But he isn't going to go into histerics. He isn't going to show his temper the way most films have their dishonored protagonists react. He isn't going to try and get her back, he isn't going to cry and whine. He's not even going to apologize, as any sort of apology is meaningless at that point. He instead, reverently accepts his tragic fate. Most importantly, Malick, Colin Farrell, and Q'Orianka Kilcher make you feel all of that.

Then....and then, Malick takes it one step further. He isn't content to leave it there. Pohcahontas, right after she's had her "f*** you", right after she's delivered what may be the most biting line in cinema since Rhett Butler's "No, and I don't give a damn", she proves true the earlier comment in the film that she has a nature than can turn trouble into good; she replies, with a mothering smile, "You will."

You will. Once again, you and Smith are hers. You are once again in complete awe of her. You are possessed by her, with her. You were positively pummeled by her force, and then yet again melted by her compassion.

This film means more to me than any piece of art I can think of.