"The Bourne Identity" is by far the best action movie of 2002! It starts fast and never slows down, from beginning to end. Matt Damon (of "Good Will Hunting"/"Saving Private Ryan" fame) delivers a dynamite performance as Jason Bourne; a CIA operative whos failed assassination attempt of a world leader causes him to be put for extermination by his own company. Coming from near-death, without any remembrance of the past, Bourne embarks to find and retrace why he is in the situation, he is, while battling those that seek to end his life. All this with the skills and techniques that are provided to him by being a CIA Op. Franka Potente (lead of "Run Lola Run," the best German film of the 90s: if you haven't seen it, check it out ASAP) is amazing as Bourne's penniless sidekick. She is smart, sexy, and a perfect compliment to Damon. They are an excellent pair together! This movie is amazing for its great dialogue, witty and charismatic cast, and non-stop action sequences. Chris Cooper is quite good as Bourne's former boss, who wants him dead ASAP. And, an upcoming star in Julia Stiles makes a brief appearance as a CIA employee. On top of the cast, the film is gifted with excellent cinematography. Set primarily in Paris, it has the ability to take that city that many Americans know well and transform it into an exotic masterpiece, ala Budapest or Prague. The camera angles of the scenes are fantastic, giving the audience plenty of excitement, as Bourne climbs down walls and beats his way through security officers. All in all, this is a movie that everyone will like. It is the action highlight of 2002, with maybe the best chase scene in the history of film (and that includes the 1971 classic: "The French Connection") And, what makes this movie so much better than let's say "XXX," is that Damon is believable as the smart, witty Bourne and his action sequences are riddled in athletic ability, then an overdoing of special effects. This film is quite believable, which adds to its aura. Definitely check this movie out, by all means. Built on a strong novel, it's a smart film, with a great cast, beautiful cinematography, and nonstop action. The action of film of 2002: "The Bourne Identity."