Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country is, by far, the best of the Trek films. The movie was the final movie featuring the entire cast of the original Star Trek series. It was directed by Nicholas Meyer (the director of Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan) and the music was composed by Cliff Eidelman, who by the way did a sensational score.
Note: Plot summary ahead, including vague look into ending, don't read if you haven't seen the movie.
The basic plot of the movie is that Sulu, now the captain of the Excelsior, monitors an explosion on the Klingon moon, Praxis, the results of which mean that the o-zone layer on the Klingon homeworld will be completely gone within 50 years. Because of this, the Klingons want peace with the Federation. The Enterprise-A, against Kirk's will,  has been ordered to escort the Klingon chancellor, Gorkon, to Earth for negotiations. En-route, 2 Starfleet officers beam aboard the chancellor's ship and brutally murder several Klingon officers, including the chancellor. Kirk and McCoy beam over to help, but, after the chancellor dies, they are placed under arrest, tried, and sentenced to life imprisonment on the mining asteroid, Rura Penthe. Spock assumes command of the Enterprise-A and refuses to return to Earth until he finds out what really happened. Eventually, he frees Kirk and McCoy and they uncover a conspiracy involving the Klingons, the Romulans, and the Federation, which includes, surprisingly, a treacherous Vulcan. And, of course, Enterprise-A and the Excelsior save the day. After bidding Sulu and crew a fond farewell, Captain Kirk recieves orders to return to Earth and be decomissioned. Spock then says, "If I were human, I believe my response to that would be, 'Go to Hell!' . If I were human." The bridge crew smiles and Kirk has Checkov set a course for the "Second star to the right and straight on till morning!" After that, the captain, in a very setimental, emotional scene of the Enterpise-A flying towards the star,  makes his final captain's log entry. His last words, "...boldly going where no man, where no one, has gone before." The ship then disappears into the star and the screen shows the cast signing there names on it.