"The Edge of Heaven" Fatih Akin, 2007

[Note: this review includes a fairly detailed description of the film's plot.  I have tried to avoid the critical 'surprise' moments, but if you want to approach the film tabula rasa, read only the first few paragraphs, and maybe the last.]

I find it hard to explicate just what it is I like so much about the films of Fatih Akin, but the two I've seen (this one and 2004's "Head-On") are breathtaking works of great beauty and emotional impact, easily among the best films of any given year.  There is much to like in the films -- they are well lensed, the acting is excellent, they are neatly structured.  But then lots of films share those attributes without being lifted to the level where you tell friends "you have to see this one".  Dealing with Turkish immigrants to Germany, the cultural conflicts and the relation to the homeland, obviously relates to a pressing topic in the US, indeed the very story of the US, but not every immigrant flick hits you so in the gut.  So though I can't say exactly why, I do urge you "see it."  I saw it once in theatre, and eagerly await the DVD.

"Head-On" dealt with the explosive relationship of two rather extreme characters (they meet as clients in a mental health institute, for starters), and was definitely intense and edgy.  "The Edge of Heaven," by contrast, features pretty ordinary seeming people, three parent/child pairs, and is precisely, almost coldly, fitted together in a way that makes the plot seem mundane, even though it deals with violent death, prison and revolution.

"The Edge of Heaven" begins with a framing scene which resonates with the final scenes of "Head-On", where Cahit takes a bus to his home town in Turkey.  Here, a young man, Nejat, is driving on a country road in Turkey, and stops at a gas station, where he purchases gas and snacks, and discusses the music playing, which he has not heard before.  All very simple, very ordinary. This time stream will be rejoined near the end of the film.

Then we start the first of three titled sections, "Yeter's Death".  (Talk about spoilers!  But perhaps this is the director's way of saying we should be looking beyond, beneath, the details of plot.)

Nejat's father Ali is in Bremen, wandering through the red light district in the afternoon, where he chooses a woman and enters her apartment.  As he is leaving, something she says makes him realize she also is Turkish.  Ali keeps coming back, and eventually makes a proposition: that Yeter should come live with him and he'll replace her earnings.  She demurs, but when threatened by some Turkish street thugs -- nationalists or fundamentalists who don't like a countrywoman in her profession -- she moves in with Ali.  Nejat comes to visit, surprised but guardedly pleased to find his father has a girlfriend.  Yeter's one major regret in life is separation from her daughter Ayten, still in Turkey, who thinks she is working in a German shoe store.  Nejat returns to Hamburg, where we follow his life as a professor of (European) literature, including a lecture where a young woman is asleep at a desk.  Yeter dies (I won't spoilerize just how), and Nejat breaks relations with his father and goes to Istanbul to locate Ayten, with only her name and a picture of her mother.  Getting no response to the flyers her puts up, and stonewalled by the police, he buys a German bookstore and settles into Istanbul.

"Lotte's Death"

Now we follow the story of Ayten, young, sturdy, athletic and aggressive.  Eventually it becomes clear that we have gone back in time and are roughly paralleling the first section.  A masked figure in an anti-government demonstration, Ayten picks up a loose gun and flees.  She escapes and stashes the gun on a rooftop, then flees to Germany to look for Yeter.  With no luck at finding her mother in shoe stores,  Ayten winds up broke and hungry, hanging around the university where Nejat teaches.  She takes a nap in his lecture (reprising the scene mentioned above), then approaches a young German woman, Lotte, for money to buy a meal .. instead, Lotte eats with her, and then invites "Gul", as she is calling herself, to stay at her mother Susanne's.  Gul settles in, seemingly some time passes and the relation with Lotte grows, but eventually she is deported due to easing relations with Turkey.  Lotte is distraught and pursues her to Istanbul over the objections of Susanne.  Looking for cheap lodging while she waits to see Gul/Ayten in prison, she sees a notice in Nejat's store, and takes a room with him.  Ironically, the flyer Nejat has posted seeking information on Ayten means nothing to her, since it has only a picture of Yeter.  She finally sees Gul, who has been networking with fellow revolutionaries in the clink and asks Lotte to do a favor for her on the outside.

"The Edge of Heaven" [More literal translation, "On the Other Side"]

In this act, the threads are brought together, both cinematically and emotionally.  Susanne comes to Istanbul to claim Lotte's body, but stays to help Ayten, who is shaken to the core by her complicity in Lotte's death.  Ali comes to Turkey, but Nejat refuses to see him and he returns to his home village on the sea.  Eventually, inspired by the reconciliation of Susanne and Ayten, Nejat sets out after Ali.  The final scene, with credits rolling as Nejat sits on the beach, is both simple and powerful, with everything left to our imagination.  Through tragedy, the characters have each truly come through to the other side, either of death or broken relations.