In my younger teen years, I admit it, I was a fan of The Rock on what was then called WWF (now WWE, of course). He just always made me laugh whenever he delivered his hilarious insults and one-liners. "...If u smelllllllll what the Rock is cooking!" Which self-respecting wrestling fan couldn't resist that, hehe? Now he is trying his luck as a Hollywood action star, and I've always thought that if there was to be a new action star on the level of Schwarzenegger and Stallone in the '80s, The Rock (he should really start crediting himself by his real name, Dwayne Johnson) could be it. Who cares if he ain't a great actor? Charisma, a tough physique, and even a tough presence is all an action star really needed (anything else is a bonus), and The Rock pretty much has all three.
Okay, I'm not the biggest Rock fan in the world. I have seen neither THE SCORPION KING, in which he got his first top billing, nor the recent remake of WALKING TALL, in which he plays the role Joe Don Baker played in 1974. I have, though, seen this movie, Peter Berg's THE RUNDOWN. In it, he plays a bounty hunter named Beck who has to go through one last mission down in El Dorado before he can retire the business and open his own restaurant. And what a mission it is! Having to deal with a brat looking for treasure (Seann William Scott), a mad dictator (Christopher Walken), and a bartender (Rosario Dawson) who turns out to be a tribal leader (I think) also looking for the same treasure as Scott's character. Needless to say, it's more than Beck bargained for.
Unfortunately, the movie he's a part of is a little less than I bargained for. I respect director Berg's attempt at being something other than the usual frenzied, overscaled brainless action spectacle that is seemingly the norm today, and perhaps it can be argued that the Amazon settings of the movie are worth the extra time. Still, I couldn't truly work up a lot of enthusiasm for THE RUNDOWN. Despite some interesting plot twists and turns, it seems to me basically another genre picture, and ultimately a forgettable one at that. It had more intrigue than most, but overall it wasn't as much fun as I expected. 
Who knows, though? Maybe it's simply b/c I saw it on the reduced proportions of a TV screen rather than on the much-bigger, wider screen of a theater that I react this way. It might seem grander---particularly its pictorial imagery---on a big movie screen then it would on the small screen, with its grandeur vastly reduced. At least, though, the small screen doesn't diminish the performances, which were all at the very least competent. Seann William Scott may simply be playing a slightly smarter version of his Stifler idiot in the AMERICAN PIE movies, but at least he does it well. Rosario Dawson also doesn't have much of a developed character, but at least she looks very nice (as she always does) and delivers her lines with conviction. I gotta say that, to me, Christopher Walken seems to be on autopilot in this movie, but at least he resists overacting as the bad guy---his madness is subtle---and Christopher Walken on autopilot still isn't totally without interest for the audience.
And as for The Rock...well, once again he may not blow anyone away with his acting skill, but in the confines of this role, he has that formidable presence and conviction that a powerful action star should have. He shows here that he certainly can be an action star, and while this movie doesn't totally succeed for me as an action flick, it at least tries to be smarter and better than those dumber-than-dumb star vehicles for Stallone and Schwarzenegger in the '80s.
Still, despite its noble ambitions, I would not recommend THE RUNDOWN.