I am far from being a Japanophile, but this NHK series was one of the very best things I've ever saw on screen. Aside from this, the only other anime series I've watched recently was Cowboy Bebop, which is also great.

When I was a kid I watched Dragonball Z and Gundam Wing on Cartoon Network, but even then I could detect their teenage angst and raw sentimentality. I'm an adult now, so that stuff is no longer very engaging and I believe the anime thing as a whole carries the stigma of being just an elaboration of melodrama in the manner of Dragon Ball Z. Welcome to the NHK flies in the face of this expectation.

Now that I think about it, I can't really think of an American production to match this series, with the sole exception of Breaking Bad. Perhaps this is because the overwhelming amount of American cinema and television is simple-minded garbage that is inundated with the fettered, beleaguered remains of love in the form of calculated perversity, the suffocating lawyerist mores of liability, pragmatist and social constructivist theory posing in the solemnly moral, if not sacred, state-sponsored institutions of feminism and minority-racial empowerment, the obsession with survivalism and apocalypse, and Yankee Doodle 'Invade the World/Invite the World' global policy. It was refreshing to behold a creation that is totally devoid of our ideological, platitudinized intellectual doldrums. Many claim that America is anti-intellectual but this knee-jerk liberal shibboleth couldn't be further from the truth.

I must confess that it takes truly great acting for me to tolerate the presence of real human faces on a screen, such is the depths of my jadedness. The peculiar artistry of this medium thankfully circumvents this personal aggravation. The character animation as a whole, including the English dub, was exquisitely executed. What is more is that this series possesses a relevance for myself, so its tragedy had a visceral immediacy that I rarely experience and which for that reason was most welcome.