The entire Savage family in Writer/Director Tamara Jenkins' first film in three years suffers from delusions of their own mind.  The patriarch, Lenny (Philip Bosco), is deteriorating in mental health due to his age and lack of environmentally challenging stimuli, but the "kids," Wendy and Jon (Laura Linney and Philip Seymour Hoffman) have no such excuse.  Rather their imaginations contort the facts and history of their family (Wendy is working on a "semi-autobiographical" tale about a brother and sister who are "forced to fend for themselves" at the hand of an abusive father after their "mother goes out on a date only to never return") and keep them from maturing (Jon breaks up with his long time girlfriend when her visa expires, sending her back to Poland).  Though Jon points out that they "are not in therapy right now; this is real life," the central theme in The Savages appears to be that all the therapy in the world can't heal those who just aren't ready to accept it. Though Wendy seems to have taken on the brunt of it (with her pill-popping and extramarital affair), everyone in The Savages is so stuck on the mistakes of the past that they are unable to forgive, let alone try to move forward with their lives.  Though The Savages depicts one very specific family's journey, at its core is a state of mind that is much more common than perhaps admitted and therefore universal.

When Lenny's girlfriend passes away, he is left without companionship and homecare, so both siblings travel to Sun City, Arizona for the funeral and to see to longer-term placement of the man whom they both moved to the opposite coast to escape.  Arriving at their father's hospital bed, they are reduced once again to small children in his presence, even though he is strapped into bed and tied up with catheters and IV drips.  The Savages is a coming-of-age tale if there ever was one, but its protagonists are already middle-aged.  Slowly, perhaps even reluctantly, Wendy learns the importance of caring for someone else, and in turn, takes a cold, hard look at how sad her life has become.  Her neuroses translate into an obsession to do the best she can for her father, in almost a nurturing, spousal way. Jon, on the other hand, just gives into his father's worsening condition, and rather than try to control it, he accepts it.  In their own way, they each change subtly, but surely, in the short timeframe the film spans.  At times they seem to take one small step forward and two giant leaps back, but it's a gradual process; they cannot magically be fixed overnight.  As Jon said: "This is not [a movie]; this is real life."  It takes the need to care for the man who never did for them for these two perpetual adolescents to finally begin to grow up.

The weight of film relies on Linney and Hoffman's shoulders, and in less capable actors' hands, the characters would come off as insane drones, but because both are so known for (and so good at) playing "everymen," they add a level of credibility and believability... even upon revealing yet another fantastical layer of personality (such as Wendy's admission that the grant she received was not for her play but actually from FEMA because of 9/11).  Jenkins directs her actors to be natural and emote their feelings with slight rolls of their eyes or slouching shoulders, and The Savages, as a film about an average family, is only stronger for that.

The Savages on DVD offers two brief extended scenes, one which is the opening dance routine, and one which features the motel lounge singers.  Both are superfluous, however, as the real attraction is the EPK-esque "Making of" featurette entitled "Meet The Savages."  In it, interviews with the cast and Jenkins share their inspiration during both the development and pre-production periods.  Jenkins points out in this "extra" that she opts for "slice of life" characters and moments and prefers observational humor rather than more traditional on-screen humor.  It is an unnecessary admission after actually viewing The Savages, which blurs the line between comedy and tragedy, but it is still a refreshing approach to filmmaking nonetheless.

Jenkins also shares a few personal photos in a bonus behind-the-scenes gallery, and of course the disc offers trailers from other upcoming Fox releases.  The Savages' theatrical run was short-lived--a blink-and-you-missed-it-- and didn't have the opportunity to reach the masses who would have undoubtedly identified with the story had they known it was there.  Thankfully, though, like the Savages, the film itself has been given a second chance at life with its DVD release.