I'm going to be frank here.  First, and foremost, I am grateful for the Looney Tunes Collections.

There are three camps out there regarding the animation of these cartoons: Black and White 1930's, Color classics 1940's and 1950's, and the color demise cartoons in the 60's.

We all have our favorite era and that's fine.

In reading these posts there is a history of these cartoons!

Cartoons in the WB case, were simply additional entertainment before a feature movie at the nickelodeon or the bijou or the movie theatre.

When was the last time you saw a cartoon like the WB's at a movie theatre in this day and age?

All of the cartoons we enjoy from the WB collection are the works of talented individuals to create a lightened atmosphere given thier interpretation of life, history and just plain fun!

The demise was television and other venues of entertainment that killed them.  That and cost. WB only has the film shot, not the original cells, because they were washed clean from the mylars and then re-used for the next cartoon!  Disney saved everything.

But what the WB cartoons gave us were fresh, funny and goofy situations, whose comedy was geared for adults...even the animators said the creations were for 'them' and not the general public....they could care less.... working away in the termite trailer!

All of the WB cartoons are important.  The selfless work of the individuals working away at restoring some 1200 gems of the animators who have gone before them is extremely important to recognize, reflect and respect those few decades of hard work.  And for that, I am grateful.

The focus of these collections is to support and THANK those that work tireless hours to use the ratted old films they have, and bring them to life again for generations to come.

My only reservation is the need to keep them original and uncut.

I remember in the 70's the idiot group that came along thinking these cartoons were making children act out what they saw in them.  What a fallacy.

Then, we have to suffer Whoopie Goldberg teaching us about how bad these cartoons were in stereotypes and how we must remember that was a different time and that although this happened, she still laughed at them.  What the heck does that mean...Be policitically correct and if you have to laugh, by god, it better not be out loud displaying that you are a racist or an idiot because you did not properly respond in the politiclly correct venue?

If we have to have Whoopie then fine.  If that's the disclaimer to keep the cartoons original....okay.  I'll just hit 'next' on my dvd remote.

Lastly, I would caution you parents regarding viewing these cartoons with your children... they may light dynamite, they might set a deadfall of a rock on a roadrunner...they might go against slow poke Rodriguez...and god forbid...paint thier backs to look like a skunk!