After seeing and mostly enjoying the original Crank, I decided to check out this sequel.  I was hoping for some more good-natured, mindless, violent entertainment to spice up an otherwise boring Tuesday night.

Well, they certainly got the 'mindless' part right.

Crank 2: High Voltage starts off reminding the viewer that Chev Chelios (Jason Statham) died at the end of the last movie.  Well, sorta.  See, it turns out that after falling out of a helicopter onto the roof of a car and landing on the concrete, he was immediately picked up by some goons and taken to some seedy underground hospital room where his heart was stolen and replaced with an artificial one.

Apparently some bad guys wanted to put Chev's heart into the body of some old lecherous crime-lord named Poon Dong because Poon's was giving out from the rigors of old age and young prostitutes.  Chelios had the strongest heart of anyone they knew, so they decided to go after his.

I guess Poon didn't have health insurance or couldn't get on a donor list or something because black market organ harvesting is messy business - especially when the donor wakes up and starts killing all your underlings.

One might wonder why an evil old crime boss wouldn't just take Chelios' heart and let him die, rather than spend the money and resources replacing it with an expensive, high-tech, slightly finicky new one.  Or for that matter, why not just replace his with the artificial one to begin with?  It's not like they were trying to make Chelios a slave to Poon Dong, which could have been an interesting twist.  To the contrary, they just start trying to kill Chelios after he's received his heart transplant, which makes you wonder why they bothered keeping him alive in the first place.

Of course this type of logic has no real place in a movie like this, so let's just get on with the review...

Anyhow, Chelios predictably breaks free of his surgeon captors, and immediately goes on a rampage.  His mission: Get his heart back.

Ahh, but there's a catch.  See, his new heart has an external battery that constantly needs to be recharged.  So Chelios has to find new and creative ways to do this in between shooting up bad guys, getting in fist fights, and running from the authorities.  So Chelios is constantly on the lookout for sources of electricity, be it a car battery, power line, or police Taser.

Now if this was all there was to the movie, honestly, it wouldn't be too bad.  Silly, yes.  But not terribly more so than the first.

Unfortunately, this movie makes some extremely questionable choices in bizarre cut-scenes that made me suspect that someone had slipped some magic mushrooms into my popcorn.

These kind of scenes might work if the director was making a short film in the style of David Lynch.  But this isn't that type of movie.  This kind of movie owes its audience what it promises.  Gun fights.  Fist fight.  Sword fights.  Knife fights.  Blood.  Explosions.  A few scenes of gratuitous nudity.  And some more fighting, just for good measure.  Really, that's all the audience wants.

Instead of enhancing the story or attempting to add depth to one-dimensional characters, the cut-scenes end up taking screen time away from the main character and making the audience sit through painful, boring, awkward parts when all they really want is some fighting and guns.

In short, this film is a bit of a mess.  Worth a rental, maybe, but there are far better films out there in this style that deliver better on what they promise.