I don't think I have to delve into how touchy the subject matter is in this film . Without a doubt, anyone who finds the idea of brotherly love freaks them out will absolutely hate this film sight unseen. I am not one such viewer. I can take fiction for what it is. That is how you'll take this film if you enjoyed it. Others will be discontent that it did not delve deeper into the boys' relationship--which it could have, address issues of incest vs. the world at large--which it did not, or display any great character growth--which it certainly didn't do.

As a matter of fact the conflict in this film is very much glossed over. The mother, and more so the father, have very real insight into the potential of the changing relationship when the brothers are still boys. However, a direct confrontation never comes to fruition for reasons I will not mention here. I don't want to spoil the movie for those who have not seen it.

 The only challenge for them is brought about when the youngest brother is offered a chance to train for the Olympics in another country for three years. The older brother flounders; distraught and loss and lonely without the younger brother who has never left his side. Some would argue--which is their prerogative--that the older boy somehow manipulated his sibling into 'loving' him in a manner which many would see as perverted. I think that the director/writer successfully put that suspicion to rest by featuring the first intimacy between the brothers when they are both well and truly grown. I saw no signs of manipulations from the older boy over his younger brother.

The acting was superb, the shooting of the film very artistic. The overall feel of the film was positive and happy. I very much enjoyed that the brothers were not depressed and hidden in darkness for the majority of the film. It would have been so easy to have the young men accidentally discovered in bed, to have their private relationship raked through the coals and dissected by family--to have them disowned and rejected by society. I'm glad that the film did not go that route. I've watched a enough gay romance movies with twisted and hopeless endings.

They did not come to resent one another, or be fearful of their love and relationship. This movie was aptly named. They stayed true to each other from beginning to end.