This is my all time favorite movie ever! And the many Acadamy Awards it earned are all well deserved. It was the first DVD I took to my new condo in a forgein country and currently the only DVD there. I flew 2 copies on an airline in my suitcase,the second copy was a gift for a woman to young to have seen it when the movie was first made. My thoughts were that she might be inspired by the true story and strength of Karen Blixen played by Meryl Streep the lead charcater (although Robert Redford may have been billed as the lead actor and is mighty fine to look at, Meryl Streep made this movie). There is a whole new generation of young women out there who can be inspired by this true story. And some of us oldies out there who sometimes feel sorry for ourselves until we are reminded of the hardships that others have endured and the grace with which they have endured their circumstances.

The lead character Karin Blixen, moved away from her family to marry, left her home country to move to a place she had never set eyes on, encountered; hardship, disease, love & loss of love, financial difficulties, demonstrated leadership abilities in a country dominated by men, gained the respect of both men and women and what I liked best of all about her is that she had a wonderfully fullfilling, satisfying life during the best and worst of circumstances and always rose to make the best of everything with the dignity and grace of royalty. Not that I am man bashing, because I do love them, but she didn't need one to be a complete person and this is so refreshing, she relied on her own strength. Yes, women can be strong as all get out! Ladies, take note.

It is the most outstanding cinematography I have ever seen. The actual filming in Africa is so beautiful it has made me want to visit Africa more than anything I have ever seen to date. I personally wonder if the Rachel Ashwell, "Shabby Chic" look might have some roots from this movie set. The African home of the Danish, Karen Blixen filmed in this movie would be right at home with the Rachel Ashwell store in Santa Monica, CA or the Ralph Lauren Home Store in San Fransisco, CA - both my favorite stores. For decor lovers and animal lovers this movie never stops giving. Meryl Streep(Karin Blixen)has more than one exciting run in with lions and we think we have it tough with barking dogs, get real.

The musical score/soundtrack is to die for and can conjure emotion (real tears for a deepness of beauty, both for humanity and unmatched scenery) just from the sound of the songs associated with the scenes.

It's an action movie (lions, fire, whips and things of that sort, sorry no kung fu fighting, stabbing or gun fights), set in a far away, beautiful, sometimes dangerous land and a love story filled with twists and turns, beautifully filmed.

I can't even count how many times I have watched this movie over and over, more than Titantic. My favorite movie ever and I've had quiet a few years to be be viewing them.