From  [...].
Movie is better than the book: My Summer of Love

Has anyone seen this movie?? I stumbled on it at 3am on IFC and was completely mesmerized by it. I was packing for a trip home (Yeah, I pack late) and just stopped what I was doing and watched the whole thing.

Emily Blunt is an amazing actress. Stunning and terrifying at the same time. You can't take your eyes off of these girls. The scene with the two girls running down the street with Edith Piaf in the background and even the camera can't keep up with them. It is still one of my favorite shots of all time.

With the back drop of a green Victorian lush mansion and soundtrack of the dulling sounds of insects and dry heat, you are right back to being young and bored during your summer vacation. With that lazy idleness of nothing to do, I am convinced anyone could be seduced into Tamsin's world.

Here is a little blurb:

"A tale of obsession and deception, and the struggle for love and faith in a world where both seem impossible. The film charts the emotional and physical hothouse effects that bloom one summer for two young women: Mona, behind a spiky exterior, hides an untapped intelligence and a yearning for something beyond the emptiness of her daily life; Tamsin is well-educated, spoiled and cynical. Complete opposites, each is wary of the other's differences when they first meet, but this coolness soon melts into mutual fascination, amusement and attraction. Adding volatility is Mona's older brother Phil, who has renounced his criminal past for religious fervor - which he tries to impose upon his sister. Mona, however, is experiencing her own rapture. "We must never be parted," Tamsin intones to Mona but can Mona completely trust her?" (Focus Features)

I was left with such a strange feeling when I went to bed (at 5am). I forgot what it was like to have those magically intense and boring summers where everything can go so right and so wrong all at once.

After falling in love with the film, I picked up the book was so disappointed that I couldn't back to that place. Helen Cross' novel has much more drawn out plot with many characters and a sub-plot involving a missing girl.

Ha...Well Pawel Pawlikowski (the film's director) didn't care much for all of that. He had only used Cross' novel as a blue print for the film and only had a script that contained 35 pages and he fleshed out the story as he filmed. Completely leaving out most of the characters and a sub-plot about the missing girl.

I'm glad I read the book. Was a little disappointed in it but I also felt very optimistic that while the reputation for adaptations can be unfavorable, I am excited to see directors (and actors for that matter) are able (in some instances) to modify the material they are given and work it to their advantage.

Anyway...Go see the movie! Let me know what you think!