I'm into biblical scary/creepy movies and I'd give this movie an 8 out of 10.  From reading other reviews, I notice that a few plot holes are the main theme of why the movie isn't so great.  But I'm here to help explain them.  Being one that I tend to understand movies like this, the ideaology of the movie is that, within each person who were the horsemen- they felt inside.

Kristin who was war; was at war with herself, inside because here she is a beautiful young girl and her adopted father molested and probably raped her.  So, all the while thinks, okay... I was adopted and love by this family up to a certain point and then ripped apart.  I'm the same way, I've experienced this myself, it's why I know- because I'm at war with myself too at time.

Then there was Garrison Jacobs; who was Pestilence, we find out from Kristin in her jail cell that Garrison was heartbroken and a liar and that he claimed the teacher molested his son, when it wasn't true.  But you know what, that's what Pestilence is, spreading diseased excuses or lies because technically- pestilence means plague.  But because of who and what he was, it killed him from his own.

As for Corey Kuth, he was dead inside because of his brother not accepting him for who he was.  It literally destroyed what he believed in and made his dead from the world.  Therefore, he was death and as he put it when he stabbed the man who tried to rob him, "Hell follows me" and in a way, he was the cause of that by letting it get to him so badly.  So he put an end to it by killing himself in front of his brother- to make his brother see that hell follows with his death.

Then there is Alex Breslin, who is conquest, he's the conquering hero, the white horse, the leader of the pact.  He found these three people from his group therapy and put together a website called, "We are the Nothing" because to them, they feel like they are "nothing" and that no one understands them.  That's the plot line of the movie, no one understands them and they punish those who wronged them and video tape it so that when Alex sacrifices himself as the fourth victim, the apocolypse will happen.  The veil will be lifted, their videos will be shown and everyone will realize that these four kids were capable of killing others because those others knew how basically kill these kids inside.  The loss of Alex's mother and then his father not being apart of his life, what do parents expect?  They're kids to be happy and well-grounded, kids feel and this is why they did what they did.  They hurt and they hurt the people who hurt them.  That's all!

Dennis Quaid on the other hand, I couldn't believe his character as Aiden Breslin didn't even step into his older sons room and check on him more.  I know his career is a driving force in the movie because he's a detective but there are moments in everyone's lives where their kids are more important than work, especially when there's been a death in the family.

Good movie, I've watched it five times in two days, trying to understand it and by the 5th time, I finally understood it, even without the plot being a 100% up to par.

Melissa