I strongly recommend "Hot Coffee" as an eye-opener for the problems of media misinformation, legislative and judicial manipulation, and citizen disenfranchisement. I think the film presents its information in a clear and engaging way, and it's so important because the issue pertains to anyone in this country who can be wronged and deserve equitable compensation (i.e., you and those you love). I, too, had formerly held a vague "understanding" of the "frivolous" hot coffee lawsuit, but I've since learned that I knew NOTHING about it. If you're wondering since seeing the trailer: yes, you will be shown graphic photos of the injuries Stella Liebeck sustained. It's important, because it can really wake you up to the fact that there are legitimate claims out there, and there can be a chasm between reality and what the media and "pundits" report.

I'm in the middle of watching the film again (good documentaries deserve more than one viewing), and I'm enjoying getting a better understanding of the problem -- though it seems so formidable. There's an especially good clip where a Representative on a small business committee is questioning the sense of legislating caps on damages, rather than leaving compensation the province of the courts and juries. The film is great in that it encourages viewers to be [more] critical of the information that they consume, and I believe it effectively communicates the problem that we are hobbling the innocent and earnest in our haste to hobble the thieves.

Speaking of misinformation, since you're probably trying to learn if this film is worth seeing or buying (as you're reading a review), you'll likely find that there is some criticism (a single 1-star "review" at this time) and negative comments. I have addressed some of this negativity at length, as replies under the reviews of "E. Hernandez" and "J. lesch". I have found dismissals of this film, especially concerning the Jamie Jones case, to be quite poorly supported.

So, I say to you that I found it very much a worthwhile watch. I believe it deserves more publicity and views, with such an important issue presented so well.

Happy viewing.