I went into this movie expecting it to be wonderfully bad, with cheesy lines, poor scriptwriting, horrible acting, and no respect for the book. However, I was sorely disappointed. Sure,  the special effects were cheesy, and there were some very silly lines/acting moments, but it wasn't horrible. It wasn't up to par, but it wasn't the worst thing in the world.

Some of the characters were well acted. The bishop was nice (though the accent was very silly). Fantine was very pitiable (and borderline insane), I would have liked to see more of her, but the movie cut out her backstory. The Thenardiers (for the little amount they were in it) were worth a giggle.

The best actor in this thing was Anthony Perkins as Javert. He got into the part rather well, and although he was a bit shouty, he actually did a good job with it. However, it still remains that he was just too cute (and effeminate) to be Javert. I am biased in this respect, however, because I've had a crush on him since the first time I saw Psycho, about four years ago.  Even so, he was the best part of this.

The movie starts out in 1796, when Jean Valjean steals a loaf of bread that looks like a pizza. He's thrown in jail, attempts to escape, is antagonized by Javert, with whom he exchanges a few too many prolonged glances.

Anyhoo, instead of being let go, JVJ falls off a rope while saving a guy. From here, the movie progresses mostly close to the book. (except for a scene where Convict!Violent!Valjean beats the crap out of a guy)

He meets the bishop, becomes mayor,  meets Fantine, saves Faunchelevant, reveals himself to the court, and swears to save Cosette. All of this is, for the most part, book accurate (although Champmathieu is for some strange reason called Leblanc), down to the "Fire me, please!" scene with Javert, which I always find rather adorable. (though this time it featured even more prolonged glances between Javert and Valjean. Get a room, you two!)

 However, by the time they arrive at the convent, by climbing the walls, we've got a problem. There's only a half-hour left. The first hour and a half has been, if a bit campy, enjoyable. The rest of the movie is squeezed into this half hour, so there is no &Eacute;ponine, no Patron-Minette, none of the Barricade boys are named, save Enjolras and Marius. (thankfully they didn't mash Marius with Enjolras, but it might as well have been.)

There is a Gavroche, but he's only there long enough to be obnoxious and die. (and not even by collecting bullets.) Funnily enough, they cared enough to keep in Monsieur Gillenormand, though he doesn't do much and apologizes at the end.

  The barricade is teeny, and all the fighting is over in ten minutes. This is rather depressing, because this is a great part of the story and one of the reasons it is so tragic. To cut it short is to lose that tragedy.

In the same vein, the movie is cut short after Javert takes the jump (with a rather marvelous somersault). Marius and Cosette are married (though they've only shared about two scenes together, and have only known each other for about a day), and Valjean happily walks through the churchyard. The end.

Wow, talk about a disappointment. The beginning was good and entertaining, only to have it come crashing down on the conclusion. It could have been good, at least in the "so cheesy it's endearing" sort of way (much like the '57/58 version, but that one also had nerdy fannish accuracy going for it), but instead, it falls flat. Two stars.