I sat down to watch this DVD with high expectations; after all it was a comical Rossini opera performed by the Zurich Opera and starring Cecilia Bartoli and Ruggiero Raimondi. From the moment the orchestra started the overture, I realized that the DTS-5.1 sound option highlighted the rather unfortunate percussion section more than any other. The overture to the opera, not one of Rossini's best or most well known, was disappointing and when the curtain rose and revealed the stylized and extremely minimal stage set, I was beginning to wonder if my money had been well spent. Fortunately, the costumes were unusually bright and colorful if somewhat ridiculous and difficult to wear. It was uncomfortable to watch the sultan having to continually adjust his ridiculously pompous `turban.' Other Rossini operas, such as `The Italian in Algiers', have been noted to have problems with lively choreography and the performers' movements on stage being very noisy, and this is no exception. The constant thump, thump, thump as the characters climb on and then jumped off the inclined wood stage was extremely annoying. It was some time before Cecilia Bartoli appeared on stage and, while nobody would ever criticize her wonderful voice, her overacting and contorted facial expressions through much of the opera, left much to be desired and became tiring to watch. It may have been necessary to convey emotions in this way to the audience present, but the close-ups, which are so wonderful a feature of the DVD medium, accentuated this aspect too much. It did not help that Thomas Grimm is no Brian Large when it comes to directing an opera for video. Although there was fine singing, music and eye-catching costumes, the poor stage-set design/props, unadventurous choreography of movements on stage and a `noisy' recording gave it the appearance of something that a typical high school could present, if it was fortunate to have one of the world's greatest mezzo-sopranos on board. Summing up, a mixed bag and rather amateurish.