This is an astounding film given the technology of the day. NO computer generated birds.  I am very impressed with the special effects in the movie. Like most people I am somewhat jaded by the computer generated special effect of today - it is SO easy today to create a realistic artificial reality.  Shooting this film today would be a piece of cake. Shooting this film when it was shot was a work of art.

Aside from the artistry of the film -

I like the story. I remember watching this movie when I was a teenager.  If memory serves me correctly, I was NOT particularly impressed with the film - I thought it was a good film and I thought it was scary.  It really scared my sister and to this day she is afraid of groups of birds.

This particular version lists an alternate ending - it is NOT really there. A statement is made about an alternate ending being shot, but no filmed alternate ending is present.

This particular version also lists a deleted scene  when again there is NO deleted scene, merely a mention of one and some views of a script about this ending.

There is a short documentary about the film and I found it to be entertaining. There is also Tippi Hedren's screen test,
production photographs, news reels about the film and a trailer - all of which add to the package.

If you are a Hitchcock fan this movie is a must see.  If you are a fan of movie magic and movie technological achievements you will appreciate this movie.  This was a difficult movie to shoot and Hichcock and his crew did an extremely good job given the technology of the day.

I missed Hitchcock's cameo walk through when I watched the film - saw it on the documentary and will go back to watch it in the film. The film is full of Hitchcock's subtle jokes and add ins.

This is a movie I like and a technological achievement which I appreciate. It is worth buying and worth watching.

If you buy it in a region 2 format to save a few dollars make sure that your player will play region 2 format DVD's, most US DVD players will NOT.