I was quite young when I first saw this movie and I didn't really grasp alot of the more subtle messages within the scenes, but as an adult now I watch this movie and it never ceases to move me.

I have always been a diehard Katherine Hepburn fan so I knew that as time went on I would find more to love in her performance as well as Henry Fonda's, and I have.

Not only is this movie visually stunning in the way it was filmed, but the humor and bittersweet relationship between Henry and Kate rings so true to life.  As a couple who have been married for many decades, they have learned to accept the flaws and love the virtues in each other, having grown so close together in their marriage that their daughter, played by Jane Fonda, never really felt like she fit.

Honestly, the character of the daughter, Chelsea, doesn't really add much to the storyline for me as much as the step grandson does.

This was such a beautiful story for so many reasons, but it was the way that these two people entering the twilight of their lives loved each other so much, so well, that they truly understood each other to the point of not knowing where one ended adn the other began.  Kate's character, Ethel, is as much in love with her husband on his 80th birthday as the day she married him.  While she is an upbeat, positive person by nature, she buoys her curmugeon husband, Norman, as he comes to terms with the fact that their time together and their time in this life, was growing short.

They go to the house on Golden Pond every year, and on this visit Norman wonders if he will make it to another summer on the pond and if he does come back, will he remember it or the many years of memories that were forged there.  He's angry at life because it passed him so quickly, leaving him with a sense of frustration for the things that went undone, the conversations unspoken, the choices never made.  He wonders if his wife has regrets about those choices and yet he won't bring himself to ask, instead he tries to push her away so that when his time comes, it won't hurt her so badly.

And, when their daughter and her boyfriend come out to the lake for Norman's big 80th birthday party, they leave behind the boyfriend's 13 year old son, Billy, behind while they head off to Europe.

Ethel convinces Norman to agree to keep the boy for the summer while Chelsea goes off with her boyfriend as a favor to their daughter, a gift, an olive branch to the daughter who carries a massive chip on her shoulder, so Norman agrees because, quite honestly, he cannot deny his beloved Ethel anything she wants.

There is tremendous humor and poignancy in this story as Norman realizes that he isn't just the old man that he chafes at being, he's still got something to teach to this young boy who is willing to listen and learn.  Norman teaches the boy how to fish, about classic literature, how to fix the hinges on the porch screen door, and in doing so he recaptures a moment in time that he thought had passed.

And watching this is his wife, who loves him more than he realizes, and who is all too aware of the time that keeps moving them forward.

The movie is about love, human frailty and the understanding borne of both that brings home the point that it is never too late to start a conversation that is long overdue. It's about seeing the world through someone else's eyes, sharing experiences and knowledge that would otherwise be lost and accepting that while you can never go back in time, you can cherish the memories you made while doing the best you could in the moment.

I love this movie and I would never consider my movie collection complete without it.