After defeating Apollo Creed in a classic rematch, Rocky Balboa is no longer that struggling man from South Philly doing everything he can to earn a buck. His boxing career has picked up, and now he is a millionaire celebrity and is the heavyweight champion of the world.

During a ceremony for Rocky at the top of the stairs at the Philadelphia Art Museum, a giant statue of Rocky is revealed to honor him. Rocky thanks the crowd, but then announces his retirement, but out of nowhere in the crowd, a loud-mouthed boxer named Clubber Lang played by Mr. T shows up, and challenges Rocky to a match, which Rocky accepts, much to Mickey's disapproval.

I feel my above quote from The Who's Roger Daltrey describes the character, "Clubber Lang" very well. I hate/fear that character :-) But I love Mr. T, and whenever I watch Rocky III, I have to forget everything I know about Mr. T in order to enjoy his character because I know Mr. T is nothing like Clubber Lang.

I think Clubber Lang is a total thug, a bully, and the best bad guy in the whole Rocky series. That mohawk, that voice, that glare. He's VERY intimidating. I also think he's the toughest boxer Rocky ever competed against as well, and if you've seen the movie, you know why.

One thing that can sometimes make a character a good bad guy is the villain has to be aware that they are saying/doing evil things, not care that they are hurting people, and really enjoy doing it, but why does Clubber Lang like to be a jerk? Clubber Lang is a symptom of some kind of deep illness in society. He exists in a world so bleak and empty of moral values that his behavior is like a statement saying, "Things may be rotten, but at least I exist." He was born in a poor neighborhood where you no choice but to be strong and a little mean to survive or you'd be taken advantage of, thus Clubber has been a victim to a society that can't take care of everyone, so Clubber is tough because that is how he is used to being, and assumes every stranger he meets is out to get him, and I think he generally enjoys making the people he is jealous of feel how he has felt his whole life.

Some Hollywood bad guys desire to control the world and/or get lots of money, but Clubber Lang is a villain who simply desires what we all desire - Respect. What makes him a bad guy? He also craves revenge for his misfortunes's. He probably never had good parenting growing up, and is almost like an overgrown five-year old throwing a temper tantrum for not getting his way, but he has the strength of a dragon, and that is why he is so dangerous.

Clubber Lang is a man who was born without any breaks, he has a real passion for boxing because it's the only thing he can probably do really well and he gets all his anger out that way, and like Rocky, he just would like to to prove he is a somebody too, and not just another bum from the neighborhood, and he is perfectly willing to go through the pain, the sacrifices, and the humiliation to achieve his goal, but what makes him different from Rocky Balboa is that he's VERY bitter about having to work extra hard in life and he needs to
 take his anger out on the world.

Everyone has different reasons why they may hate and/or mistreat someone. Why does Clubber dislike Rocky? No doubt, he is jealous of him because he's rich, and Clubber believes Rocky's fights are fixed, and is just a puppet for "the man". He then sees Rocky competing in what he thinks is a "fake" match with a wrestler, and has turned the world title into a joke. I think Clubber also believes Rocky is a boxer who didn't earn his way to the top, and only got there because he had a name Apollo Creed liked.

As Clubber Lang is working to make his dream come true, he is constantly being ignored a shot at the title until he had earned the #1 contender spot. Then, upon climbing the mountain, he hears that Balboa will be "ducking" him again by retiring, essentially sending him back down the mountain, or making him a paper-champion. i.e. Someone who had the title only because Balboa didn't need it anymore, so he pushes all of Rocky's buttons and breaks all the codes of ethics until he gets what he desires and that is why some people hate him.

The only way to be a great boxer is to beat a great boxer, so Clubber Lang has to not only beat Rocky, but he has to destroy him.

I can sympathize with what Clubber Lang has gone through, but I strongly disagree with his methods of dealing with it all. Heck, Clubber Lang was so evil that he's the only character to tick Rocky off. Rocky is a pretty cool cat for the most part, but Clubber pushed Rocky's buttons so well that that even Rocky was talking trash while fighting him.

What a character and what a film. :-)

One of the things I love about Rocky III was that Sylvester Stallone was not afraid to make major changes to the character that made him famous. The fact that Rocky does change some is realistic because anyone going through those types of changes will change themselves. Rocky III is very good. It is a great film and a wonderful sequel.