Just by the name alone -- "Darkman" -- you know you can expect something spectacularly refreshing in the superhero genre. Indeed this is. With Sam Raimi taking on the directing, Liam Neeson playing the lead role, and Danny Elfman scoring the music, how could anything go wrong? Well, although it's not a timeless masterpiece that is enjoyable for eveyone, it is one of those films well worth the cult status it has recieved.

In Darkman, we are given a story of love, madness, and revenge. Scientist Peyton Westlake is devolping a breakthrough product: synthetic skin. Unfortunately, his lawyer girlfriend -- Julie -- has exposed some of the city's organized crime, and the criminals decide to bust up Westlake for some payback. Although not quite as brutal as Murphy's near-death scene in Robocop, this one is vicious nonetheless. To finish the job off, they set explosives in Westlake's laboratory where he lies helpless on the blood-spattered floor. The bomb destroys the lab alright, but it is so powerful that Westlake's body is flung from the building and into the nearby harbor. He's alive, but in horrible condition. At a nearby hospital where his identity is unknown, he is subjected to strange tests. Before long, he awakes in his bandages. He now has terrible flashbacks and is tortured by his hightened emotions, yet barely feels any physical pain. He finds that while his body and mind are a complete mess, he is quite strong. He escapes the hospital and sets up a murky new lab in an abandoned building. Now the story truly begins. Using his synthetic skin technology, he is able to disguise himself as virtually anyone (after all, his severely disfigured facial features might raise a few questions from folks crossing the street). But all great things come with a cost. The skin terminates after a set amount of time, so he can only stay in public for so long. He uses different disguises to get to his enemies -- as well as his girlfriend who believes the man she loves to be dead. With the mental torment of Julie slipping away from him, and the animalistic anger he must unleash on those who've harmed him, he becomes more driven than ever. He tracks down the bad guys, giving them a dose of their own medicine with a side of sweet vengeance. Westlake is seemingly dead, and a new breed of justice has been born. Before long, this anti-hero realizes his calling, becoming the only thing he is now destined to be: Darkman.

The visual style is certainly one of the more interesting aspects of Darkman. The character of Peyton -- when not in disguise -- wears torn bandages over his face, shadowed by a grim hat. His trench coat is as mysterious and haunting as Batman's cape as it flaps in the breeze. Not surprisingly, he also takes on some nice one-liners and witty tricks. Is it just me, or does this sound like a great candidate for the representative of dark superheros? Accompanied by a finely woven storyline, intense characters, stylish to-the-bone action, and a sense that a new form of heroism has risen in which we all can relate, this just seems too good to pass up!

In conclusion, Darkman is a must-rent if not a must-own. There seems to be a lack of truely stylish and original concepts in modern cinema. But this succeeds in giving us something out of the ordinary, and well worth a second look. So see what all the whispering is about and witness the new face of crime-fighting in all of it's terror and fun with Darkman on DVD! Because somewhere lost in the crowd, lurks the legend...