This review does not intend to make anyone feel bad about the Yes music.  The people on stage make you think they have a good time performing and  fans in the audience go along with that. I feel though I must give another  point of view, since most (if not all) of the Yes related reviews talk  about a band that you might think is conducted by God in person. It would  be unrealistic to expect a band in their 50s to perform as they did 30  years ago. Mr Andersons' voice has hit the ceiling, lost its wings and, I  consider, is misused within the latest Yes composition. The other musicians  well, there's not so much they have lost, from the point of view of the  execution. It would be difficult to, since they've been executing the same  songs for 20 years or more. I think Yes stopped composing innovative music  in the late 70s. The Anderson, Wakeman Bruford, Howe album is a little  exception, as some of the solo albums of Mr Anderson. The latest band cds  sound like a swan song, a swan in crisis. 
The dvd looks good, with some  moments when the blue behaves strange, bleeding into other areas where it  shouldn't be. But for the rest, the image compression was done with  knowledge, some big dvd houses have something to learn from this. The sound  is not one of the best but its clear; a strange mix added to the music  which lacks the dynamics it used to have.  Awaken, which is the reason I've  bought the dvd, didn't get me high at all. And they even had the nerve to  list Ritual and Time and a Word, though Mr Anderson barely hums a couple of  verses from the above mentioned songs. The extras are nothing to write home  about and the dvd makers still list as extras the fact that you can jump  from scene to scene or they give you the Yes website address.
I stopped  going to a Yes concert some years ago, when I saw Mr Squire getting down on  one of his knees, having a problem getting up again. After this concert I  think I will stop buying any new Yes material. It's nostalgia on the rocks.