This film seems quite dated in some respects. All those dial-up modem connections and the still-new sheen of all the internet technology on display. Little did the writers of the screenplay dream that the internet would spell doom for the brief heyday of the book superstore. Starbucks has also come down significantly from its late '90s prominence on display in the film.
 I was somewhat taken aback from the disfunctional Fox family structure. Joe Fox (Hanks) has a grandfather in his 70s or 80s fathering a young daughter with no apparent mother for the child mentioned in the film. Joe's father has had a long string of paramours, mostly hitting on the nannies hired to care for his son.  His currnet paramour has produced a 4 year old son, and the father is making noises about marrying her. Joe's mother is briefly mentioned, but her absence is never explained. Finally, Joe is living with a woman he doesn't love because she can match his self-absorption and can stand his obnoxious behavior.
 Kathleen Kelly (Ryan) runs the bookstore she inherited from her mother. Apparently her father was never involved in her life and is never mentioned in the film. The film hints that Joe Fox's grandfather may have been romantically involved with Kathleen Kelly's mother. If Kathleen was the product of such a union, there may be an element of incest involved in any romantic relationship between the two.
 The film mostly follows the worn conventions. It is somewhat amusing to watch how Joe can turn on the charm when it suits him. Joe decides he wants to romance his former business rival and deftly outmanuvers her naive approach to life. Joe works both sides of the street to gain the trust and affection of a woman who formerly despised him. Kathleen Kelly is such a fundamentally decent woman, she stands no chance against the devious Joe Fox.
 The film ends with a tentative kiss growing into full-blown love. Well, maybe Joe Fox will rise above his family disfunction and treat Kathleen Kelly as she deserves to be treated.