9 Songs is an X-Rated/porn movie, that attempts to show a symbolism of a sexual relationship and the nine Rock songs played
throughout the movie

9 Songs is the story of two lovers (Matt & Lisa) who grew to love each other through sex after meeting at a rock concert. The nine songs in the movie depict the stages of their relationship throughout the movie. Mat and Lisa became so close that they moved into an apartment together; Lisa was an American exchange student/drifter living in London and Mat a young English glaciologist.

The Movie starts off with Matt reminiscing (one year later) about his relationship with his 21 year old American sex-addicted lover Lisa. There is no real story line in this film. So, the film shows Matt recalling blurs and even makes commentaries of his experiences with Lisa throughout the movie and recalls this as he travels across the glaciers in Antarctica.

The sex scenes are real and very steamy.  This movie can very easily be classified as an X-Rated movie due to very real and raw sex scenes like oral sex shown on film between the two characters. Matt even came to a full climax on screen.  At times, I was on the edge of my seats watching like a voyeur. This movie is not a "traditional porn movie."  The sex scenes are very edgy, but are also very emotional and personal as it documents a sexual relationship.

Although, there is no true story line, the characters appeared to have an emotional bond with each other, and it makes the film seem more like a documentary of a real couple's sex life which included very raw sex. I guess the best description could be a reality type show, except the characters are really just actors.  So, because of that point I would say that the chemistry between the two actors is very good because their on-screen chemistry really clicked.

For me, the element of the Rock and Roll concert(s) throughout the movie was not appealing and was very distracting, but I do appreciate the director for doing so to create symbolism. There is also brief drug use and cocaine used by the characters in the movie

I enjoyed the sex scenes and the small element of  a story line. In the end, I was left feeling highly aroused, and now have a very special spot in my heart for this movie.  This movie is not for most, especial for those who do not like Rock and Roll and for those who are looking for a real story line that can be clearly understood.

This movie is confusing at times and chronologically out of place. But I believe that the film was intentionally not meant to make sense.  But if you related it to real relationships, one can say that relationships can also be unclear. And unclarity can sometimes be a very nice place to be.

Four Stars out of Five
Natasha Brooks, Editor-in-Chief, Bare Back Magazine
<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1440460191">Fairy Tales Can Come True: The Very Best Erotic Fairy Tales</a>