AMADEUS
It is important to remember that this movie, being "based" on a real person will definitely have it's theatrical additions. Keep in mind that this film is portrayed through Salieri's (the king's royal composer) eyes.
The movie accurately shows Mozart expounding upon or making better several works that were not his. Another historical accuracy was the portrayal of Mozart as a young child performing in different courts all across the country where his fame started to spread as a young, budding composer. The great thing about this movie is that it has enough historical accuracy to be an interesting fictional drama that leads the viewer to have a desire to learn more about Mozart and his life.
We found the movie to be a bit long and questionable in parts, However, overall it was very entertaining. This movie is full of the flair and brilliance accustomed to Mozart's time. The movie had many amazing costumes and the actors did a wonderful job of presenting the story.
One might ask, why Amadeus?  Why not Mozart, Wolfgang, or Wolfie (as his wife calls him)?  Amadeus means God's Love. The symbolism in this is not only was this Mozart's middle name, but also a recurring theme throughout the movie.
Salieri was bitter about Mozart's talents, he wanted to be able to write wonderful music, but his was only mediocre. Salieri cursed God and said that he wouldn't believe in God anymore a few times, but kept coming back to the love of god during the course of the movie so the title Amadeus is portrayed through symbolism throughout the movie.
The movie showed Mozart playing the clavier, the piano, etc. Most of the music for the movie was Mozart's and the film showed Mozart working on his operas, namely, The marriage of Figaro.
There was a constant theme of religion and of God. Salieri, a competing composer in Mozart's time, often claimed it was God's work that he had the constant desire and urge to create beautiful music but that he had been made "mute" compared to Mozart's talent. Throughout the movie, he questioned why God would work though this crude, arrogant, inappropriate person. Just the fact that the story is based on Salieri confessing to a priest is another contributing factor to this theme.
Revenge, another theme, is portrayed as Salieri strives for a way to bring about Mozart's death The interesting thing is, throughout the movie, Salieri's work is constantly being recognized by. This is a classic example of jealousy and how a person should be content with what they have.