Though I got from this DVD what I wanted - a commentary by Francis Coppola, I'm far from happy with "The Complete Dossier". Why on Earth are both versions split into two halves and spread out over both discs? This is completely non-sensical. I'm very aware of the 'quantity vs quality' debate on a single dual-layer DVD, but there seems no good reason why both versions couldn't have occupied their own single discs, and still included the commentaries.

I also have to take umbrage at the earlier reviewer/DVD promoter Kim Aubry's attack on people here knocking The Complete Dossier's lack of the "Hearts of Darkness" documentary as well as bemoaning its reduced aspect ratio. It's all very well for Mr Aubry (who just happens to have been heavily involved in the making of "The Complete Dossier" [I wonder if it was he who came up with that title?], and was paid to produce/direct the features, and will also probably receive countless free copies to give to friends and family), but it's us - the consumers - who are being asked to put our hands in our wallets, and we have a right to moan about a film, we all love, having a distinct lack of features we would expect any DVD entitled "The Complete Dossier" to have.

This is not a 'Complete Dossier'. There are no recent interviews with either Martin Sheen, Robert Duvall, Dennis Hopper, Scott Glenn, or Harrison Ford. Even the featurette "PBR Streetgang", including interviews with Frederic Forrest, Albert Hall, Laurence Fishburne & Sam Bottoms, only runs for a paltry four minutes. The deleted scenes look as though they've been scraped off the cutting-room floor and dragged through the transfer process without any hint of restoration, and the criticism regarding the lack of Eleanor Coppola's behind-the-scenes documentary feature is legendary. But my main gripe has to go back to both films being split over both discs - an incomprehensible decision, regardless of any increased bit-rate, Mr Aubry!

Still, I would definitely recommend Apocalypse Now fans buy this two-disc set .... just don't throw away your previous discs of either the 1979 or Redux versions, that have the entire film on one disc!

I'm now just waiting for "Apocalypse Now: The Ultimate Dossier" to be released. Will you be involved in that too, Mr Aubry?