After viewing Wag the Dog I can say that I did in fact enjoy watching it, but I'm not wholly sure why. Well lets start with a few problems I had with it to give my head a chance to think it over one more time. My main beef with this film is that at some times the plot drags along a little too slow, without hardly anything happening, or much keeping you distracted until a plot twist came into effect. I also have to say that I thought their choice for background music quite odd for what the movie was based on; the music used although hardly used, makes the whole thing seem light-hearted or like a fairly tale which for this movie is bad because the whole idea of it is to make he viewer question what the media tells you. And music like that just makes it a little harder to believe.

Anyway, I really liked the idea of not even including the president as a character in the movie. He was just heard from the other end of the phone saying dumb things like "That cat should defiantly be white." or "It sounds too corny." That adds to the main reason I enjoyed this movie; Its unconventional yet still effective. It doesn't really fit into one given genre, so I have to slap the broad Drama/Comedy label onto it. Which makes it difficult to compare to other movies of the aforementioned genres. What I mean by that is that I couldn't recommend this to a fan of Comedy or drama, because it ends up being a mix of both, so if you a genre buff you probably won't enjoy wag the dog. But people with an open mind will, however, be able to see past the need of having a genre plastered on everything and enjoy this movie for what it is.

The acting is as expected from just a star-studded cast that includes such big names as Robert De Niro, Dustin Hoffman,
Dennis Leary and Willie Nelson. I don't know how much better you could expect the acting in a movie to be. Of course its really Hoffman and Di Niro who shine in this movie; they work well off each other making you  forget who they are in real life and think of them as Stanley Motss and Conrad Brean.

All in all I would recommend Wag the dog to anyone who enjoys movies, Comedies, Satires, and/or people who just enjoy a new idea or plot. Take it from Someone who has only ever really enjoyed a handful of movies in their life; you should see this movie.