A tight-knit group of seven friends in the 1960's drift apart after college.  When their mutual friend, Alex, commits suicide, they all flock to the funeral, reuniting and re-kindling their platonic love and dormant romantic feelings.

"The Big Chill" is the type of movie that may not have a big effect on you shortly after you watch it, but you will remember it for weeks to come as a warm character study of human behavior.  Need a favor?  Need to talk?  Want some advice?  These friends are here for each other.

Some humorous highlights of the film include Sam Weber, (Tom Berenger), trying to jump into Nick Carlton's, (William Hurt), car in the style of his TV character...and failing.  Or when a few of the movie's couples are hooking up and Michael Gold, (Jeff Goldblum) says to Sarah Cooper, (Glenn Close), that people are probably having sex in the house and that they might as well, too.  Or when they all try to get a bat out of the attic.  There are a plethora of humorous quotes in this film.

There are also some warm moments in the film that help portray the closeness of this group, such as when Sarah asks her husband, Harold, (Kevin Kline), to help Meg Jones, (Mary Kay Place), with a huge, selfless favor.  Or when Harold offers Nick some insider stock advice to try and help him get back on his feet, since Nick is the junkie time bomb of the group, possibly headed down the same path that Alex had trod.  Meg Tilly stars as Chloe, the eccentric former girlfriend of Alex.  She is the only member of the group who was not part of the original bond, but she is welcomed with ease, especially by Nick.  JoBeth Williams plays Karen Bowens, whose husband joins her at first and then leaves before the weekend truly begins.  We learn that Karen and her husband are not happy and that Karen has a long history with Sam, setting us up for an inevitable conclusion.

The soundtrack of this film has been highly regarded.  Classic tunes, such as "I Heard It Through the Grapevine", "My Girl", and "Ain't Too Proud to Beg" help to frame the age and generation to whom the film is catered.  The cast is enjoyable to watch and easy to relate to, especially Kevin Kline, who is just as charming and witty as ever here.  (Incidentally, he met his future wife, Phoebe Cates of "Fast Times at Ridgmont High" fame, when she auditioned for the part of Chloe).  And morose though it may be, they have Alex's "big chill" to thank for re-heating the friendships.