With all due respect to Woody Allen, "When Harry Met Sally" can flaunt the distinction of having started a genre that saw the '90's enthralled by the inexplicable mix of modern romance and grandma's musical taste.  Think "Sleepless In Seattle," "Forget Paris," "French Kiss," "Only You," and "One Fine Day."  You get the idea.  
It has been said a million times how "When Harry Met Sally" set the standards for making a romantic movie, from onscreen chemistry to the pacing to the dialogue.  Now let me introduce a new light on this and point out how a particular movie could exert an influence that far exceeds its desired results.  As if the box office was not enough, the movie's soundtrack, with Harry Connick, Jr. at the helm, spawned the idea of rehashing age-old standards to help tell a romantic story, if not help sell an album.  Thus, we saw artists shedding their musical skin in favor of a Sinatra repertoire.  Think Sinead O'Connor, Sheena Easton, Ricki Lee Jones, Bobby Caldwell, and Kenny Rankin.  Then there came the bandwagon riders from the newbie lot, like Diana Krall, John Pizzarelli, Silje Nergaard, and Michael Feinstein.  
On to the DVD.  Given my take on the movie's influence on the music industry, I can't help but feel cheated by the Dolby Digital 2.0 Surround audio track. "When Harry Met Sally" may be heavy on dialogue, but still, settling with a 2.0 Surround when there could've been better choices (DD 5.1 or DTS) is at best an injustice to a movie soundtrack that was way ahead of its time.  
The audio commentary by Director Rob Reiner betrays everything his movie represents.  I would've expected Reiner to at least approximate the bubbly point of view from which the characters played their roles.
Nonetheless, it pays to be occasionally reminded why we buy DVDs in the first place.  The "When Harry Met Sally" DVD is a case in point.  It's quite enough to know that our favorite movie has been immortalized through the best video format of our time.  Who could ask for more?