If you like musicals, you will love watching "The Great Ziegfeld". This movie has everything and it is awe inspiring to watch. William Powell plays Ziegfeld and he gives the showman a great tribute. Fannie Brice has a small part but it shows her as her silly self. The music in this movie, the Overture and the Intermission and throughout the film is wonderful and exciting. Frank Morgan (the Wizard of Oz), does a fantastic supporting role. Luise Rainer has many special qualities about her as an actress, and she won an Oscar for her performance. There are many inspiring showpieces in this movie. One of the best is a spiral cake with girls dressed in long flowing gowns and men dressed in tuxedos. As the camera rises to the top of the cake there is a beautiful girl who looks like a queen with stars in the background. A fashion show with girls dressed in rich apparel with extravagant designed hats and one girl with a white cottonball-like plume taller than she is on her side. Ray Bolger sings and walks across small steps at a high level with girls all around him. Will Rogers and Eddie Cantor have bit parts. One awesome scene begins with balloons on ribbons which come out into the audience. Another fantastic scene is a row of various kinds of dogs on the stage and girls dance around them. One scene is of the inside of homes and these homes are on rolling platforms, 5 of them in a row. Girls asleep in beds wake up and make their beds and then the camera shows them dancing on these platforms as they move in and out, seperately, from one another. Fantastic! The end of the movie is sad as the Stock Market crash of 1929 has come and Ziegfeld loses all his stocks and is broke. He has 4 shows that he has ready but they have to be shut down because of a lack of money. Ziegfeld misses Louise Rainer alot, which adds to his depression. When he hears that he has lost all of his stocks and money it is the final blow. Before he dies he sees the shows that he has made as they come to his remembrance. He then looks up and says words about steps, and he says, "I must go higher. Higher." Then he passes away, thus ending the movie. This film shows Hollywood at it's finest. It is a film that you HAVE to buy and see it for yourself. You'll be glad you did!