When I first watched Equilibrium I was in complete awe. I had never seen anything like it before. The story, characters, and the all important character development makes the viewer care about the rising action in the movie.Thecover of this movie says "Forget the Matrix", and I agree 100%. The matrix was highly predictable, with little to no character development, and is actually, to me worthless to watch.  In contrast to Equilibrium, the main character evolves in a world that he can physically change, as opposed to the matrix when Neo "evolves" into the one.. nothing really changes...he simply stops some bullets and makes a phone call, oh and he makes out with Trinity.. which I am sure is highly compelling to some people, but to me, I was looking at the screen (never saw this in the theater) and said... and.. what else?? The action and the emotional development in Equilibrium is very compelling. We have a father, a soldier, and a person, all being torn apart by an emotion-inhibitory drug. The plot is very clear, and very direct. Unlike the matrix whose plot is very thin, very "mysterious" (I didn't seem to think it was), and not based on the characters, but more on the visuals.  I will take a good story over special effects any day of the week.  The music is also a very good reason to check out equilibrium.  It doesn't try to be hip or cool (like the matrix), but adds a sort of strength to the action, instead of an action scene (lobby scene of the matrix in which one is waiting for the main characters to start dancing.  Overall, Equilibrium is a completely different movie than the matrix, because it deals with human emotion and character development and it's effect on society, instead of "wow, like whoah.. it's my destiny to be the like second coming of the one....and I choose to do absolutely nothing, but make more sequels with plots that lead absolutely nowhere. If you haven't seen Equilibrium.. Buy it! Watch it! Don't compare it to the matrix, but if you do, remember, Equilibrium deals with characters, and The matrix deals with the special effects that are supposed to replace the characters and their development.