The Prince of Egypt is an excellently animated movie from Dreamworks, with
great storytelling and characters and usually very good music.  One doesn't
have to be religious to appreciate this movie (I'm not at all) -- the
emotions expressed by the characters are touching and the conflicts still
relevant.  
As far as the animation in the movie goes, it is never less than excellent.
 Besides the special effects sections (the parting of the Red Sea being the
most ambitious and breathtaking of all), the character animation is superb.
 Each character is different and distinct, with this quality most noticable
when Moses is leading his people.  Every person walking behind him, most of
whom have only seconds of screen time, is unique.  As an animation
enthusiast, I appreciate this unwillingness to cut corners.  Also standout
in this production is the appropriate and effective combination of computer
graphics and traditional hand-drawn animation.  The dream/history sequence
that plays out in heiroglyphics on the palace wall is an effective use of
computer graphics in a 3-D setting that wouldn't work as well with
traditional animation, but the movie isn't overburdened by CG shortcuts
that just look fake.
The storytelling is also very well done.  I have read reviews that say it
changed the Bible story too much, but the movie flows well and has a good
sense of pacing.  Although I've never read the Bible story, the key points
I've heard of are included, and it seems the spirit of the story is intact.
The music, for the most part, is very good as well. "River Lullabye" and
"Through Heaven's Eyes" are beautiful in that they have a more
middle-eastern feel to them, with a broader range of instruments than the
hit "When you believe", which in the ending credits is sung by divas Mariah
Carey and Whitney Houston.
One complaint: The Steve Martin/Martin Short scene is bad, bad, bad.  The
characters seem borrowed from too many Disney movies: as snide, snooty
henchmen with no character development, they are also way too modernized to
fit the theme of the story.  And their "Playing With the Big Boys" song is
terrible -- I just want to fast-forward through it.  That scene
notwithstanding, I think the movie is worth watching, for both children and
adults.