This is ceratinly a well documented filmed play.

The intense psychological ressure is so well carried out that is just imposible to watch it relaxed, indeed this is not a movie to relax, rather, a movie to ponder on.

What amazes me is that at the end, the lowest  qualified member but most astute in letting others dog-eat- ecahother is the one that actualy gets the post. So it is social and emotional intelligence that wins after all. (I do hope that this does not spoil it for you).

I have studied a bit the human character; and although I am not a psychologist, I enjoyed all the tatics and teciques employed here to exploit fears and cannibalistic insticts to survive a ruthless process.

You will learn here to- not be the first to volunteer- an age old advice from the army, if your aceptance in a group that has to forcibly shrink, they are too many minds, fresh and and smart to take you apart, it places you in a pilot test for them, very unwise move yet very natural if you have been lead by that "leadership" cult that prevails so often.

Be logically cruel, get it? Logically cruel- it is not logic alone, this is the moment to ride on the adrenalin wave and let logic be guided with a cruel instint. The whole group failed to indentify a mole, eventhough it was so obvious to find it.

Whatever you say can and will be used in agaisnt you- and in this film Ilearned, all you hear and know form someone else can also hurt you. Asymetry of information does indeed help, be careful of your "gained" leverage, specially if a mole has not been discover.

Do not be emotionally hooked, no matter what... this is the most difficult thing to do as you can get caught on the webs of local clusters to purge one member

What could have been a paradise for an analyst, was somehow interrupted by the fact that 3 players had a previous love triangle, so we would not longer see a pure exercise but participate in a ploy that gives flavor to the movie at the expense of the observant viewer.

Its a dog-eat-dog out there, at the end...be a cat