This is an unusual movie liberally based on an unusual book. But just because they share a quality doesn't mean they're really that similar.  I'll begin with what I liked: the casting was perfect, with the actors  looking as much like their characters' prose description as possible  (except I don't really see Patrick Stewart as "lumpy" or  "ugly," like the book-Halleck was). The acting was phenomenal,  the sets were as barren and beautiful as Frank Herbert described. The  special effects were great, considering they didn't exactly have the kind  of computer-animation that went into present day greats like Titanic.  Now for what I didn't care for: the writing. The voice-overs were good, but  I give the actors the most credit there. There were times when I had to  wonder if David Lynch &amp; CO. had ever read the book. Now, after all but  memorizing the book, if I watch the movie, I find myself thinking far too  often: this didn't happen this way .... neither did this... etc etc. I  realize that there's just no way to condense this book into even an  over-long feature film and remain perfectly true to it, but I didn't feel  like an attempt was always made. Perhaps a review of a movie based on a  book should concentrate more on the movie, however, there's no way one can  follow this movie without a pretty good understanding of the book; but  after one has read the book, one is often left shaking one's head at the  blatant straying from the original. Mr. Lynch definitely had his own ideas  about the Bene Gesserit, portraying them as actually having supernatural  powers. And nowhere in the book was there any mention of the Reverend  Mothers shaving their heads. Quite the contrary, actually.  Maybe I'm a  bit of a purist, but I feel that, in the case of something as profound as  Dune, which is rare indeed, if you can't make the film right, it shouldn't  be made. A mini-series *might* be a better vehicle. But it was nice to  actually see the worms and it was a huge help with pronunciation. And Kyle  MacLachalan as the boy-hero was much better than many other  "boy-heroes" we see in sci-fi. And kudos to all the actors for  doing so much with so littl