I wouldn't even waste time on this but this is also why I take time to write reviews from time to time: to complain or to talk about problems within a particular product. If something is great, I don't feel the need to express it. But this...

I don't even know if you can call it a "bad movie". For me, "Batman & Robin" or "Transformers 2" were bad movies. They were made with big budget, great actors, good directors and a true desire to make something they thought was commercial. In other words, "Pop Corn" movies. But they missed. This movie though, this "Wrong Turn 3", is something different. It has absolutely nothing going for it. Nothing. It is giving B-movies, what am I saying, Z-movies a bad name.

Pick anything. The acting, the dialogue, the camera movements, the cinematography, the music, the script, the special effects, the pace, the rhythm, the make-up, the sound, the color, the intention... I mean, it has nothing going for it. It isn't even passable. When it's not misguided, it is simply worst than amateur-like.

"Resurrection County" or something like that, is another B-Movie done in an amateur way but at least, it has heart, which makes it "passable'. But "Wrong Turn 3" is just some kind of a strange cinematic entity that doesn't even have a proper adjective to qualify it. Even watching it with the intention of laughing about it will disappoint you. You do that with Ed Wood movies like "Plan 9 From Outer Space".

It looks like a school work done in an horror course and the teacher is using it to show the students what not to make.

The idea was good. I'll give that. It made me think of the idea behind "The Devil's Reject" in which Rob Zombie uses tough bounty hunters to stop the crazy killers. This is something I'd like to do as a director or a writer: take a craze killer and give him a tough guy to battle with. Imagine Steven Seagal battling Jason Voorhees? Who would win? In "Wrong Turn 3", you have a bus full of killers that are let loose in the woods. That was interesting... but sadly wasted in the worst possible way.

The real horror here... is realizing that this strange entity called a movie saw the light of day and that it was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It even has a title and a sub title that can be use against it.

If you like this, even a bit, my God! You're in serious need of a cinematic check up!

I give it one star cause i don't know how to not give one.