This is pure entertainment. Like so many people here, I grew up to this movie. I usually put off seeing this movie until the last because it's so WARM, I like to end up the holiday with a high note.
The plot is fine, it's no "A Christmas Carol," but it's breezy. Whoever questions Bing Crosby's talent doesn't realize that here he is at his prime, just doing what he does best, being relaxed, charming and in wonderful voice. And he is hilarious in this movie for his "hipster" dialogue: "Grab the cow" when he says to Rosemary Clooney when he wants her to pick up the milk. He talks about women as "scatbacks" and "first sackers" and in my 41 years I still have no idea what he's saying but I still find funny. When Danny Kaye brings up children to the Haines sisters in a leading way, I love the way Bing whispers, "Pushing... pushing..." 
I feel bad for Clooney. She has a somewhat thankless role as the B - I - T - - - H sister because she completely misinterprets what Bing's up to but she comes around. She's still gorgeous, sultry and worth chasing. And the way she does "Love" is drop-dead phenomenol, even though the New York dancers that surround her are, of course, the same ones who dance with Vera-Ellen at the inn.
Danny Kaye is great, a wonderful sidekick. And he's a great dancer, too! 
Vera-Ellen is a dish, quite a capable actress and comedian. (I like the way she says guiltily, "I'm not the kind of girl that throws herself at a man," to which Danny Kaye fecetiously replies, "No one would think that.") Or watch the movie just to see how startlingly tiny her waistline is. But I am always annoyed by the way at the end Crosby and Clooney are passionately making out and all of a sudden Kaye says "I'll join you" just unconvincingly grabs her and kisses her, like, "Oh, me too, it's part of the ending." 
Dean Jagger, a marvelous actor, has kind of a thanklesss role, too, playing a Sad Sack kind of figure. Yet he still delivers. In the movie, they worry about him becoming a pathetic figure but they kind of end up making him such with that song, "What Do You Do With a General?" (I still like the way Crosby does up on the end note of "un-em-ployyyyed." Can you tell I've seen THIS movie too much?) I like how they call him the Old Man even tho he and Crosby were about the same age.
It's fun, it's Christmas. Great great movie.