Though from different directors, most Western viewers will probably compare this film to Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon as they are both examples of wuxia film (a mixture of chivalry, xia, and martial arts, wushu).  Moreover, both films feature the beautiful and engaging actress, Ziyi Zhang.  Much like Crouching Tiger, this film shows a variety of natural, panoramic landscapes, engulfing the viewer in lush details.  However, Yimou Zhang - Flying Daggers' director - is far more deliberate with his choice of landscape, making changes based on visual criteria rather than sequence.  Thus, there are some rapid shifts in scenes, say moving from yellow birch forests to green bamboo.  Shifts such as these are guided by an acute sense of color; the extremes of sumptuous colors indulge the viewer.  This is a very beautiful film.

In terms of action, there isn't the same level of fantasy in movement that was found Crouching Tiger.  While there are a few scenes where the laws of physics are ignored, if you found the excesses of Crouching Tiger were distracting, then you may find Flying Daggers more enjoyable.  On the other hand, there is a lot more blood and death in this film, making it a bit darker than Tiger.  The PG-13 rating seems appropriate in that it is probably a bit much for younger (under 8) viewers.

As for the film story, it is secondary to the visuals.  The dialog tends to be a bit terse and pedestrian, but perhaps that is more the fault of translation.  The basic plot is interesting, but nothing about is particularly challenging.  Several layers of intrigue play out as a rogue gang and the authorities seek each other's destruction.  Against these grander schemes, issues of friendship and love twist and turn among two police officers, Jin and Leo, and their mutual love interest, Mei.  It is the struggles among these three that drive the plot, though the film fails to invest the viewer in any character to make the emotional tensions critical.  Again, this is primarily a visual film.

Overall, I think that this is an excellent film with gorgeous photography and interesting action.  The actors/actresses are beautiful, the landscapes are stunning, and there is a wonderful fairy-tale feel to the film as a whole.  If you enjoyed other wuxia films such as Hero or Crouching Tiger, I'm sure that you will love this one.