I really enjoy heist movies; the take and the target, the colorful characters, and the inevitable plot twist all make for a great story. It was with these expectations that I went into "The Bank Job," whose title spells heist movie if there ever was one. What I found, however, was a heist movie dedicated not to an elegant robbery, but instead to retelling one of the most elaborate coverups of the 20th century.

Set in 1970s London, the movie's central plot revolves around scandalous photographs taken and held as blackmail by an unpopular civil rights activist. Believed to be located in a safe deposit box in the vault of a Baker Street bank, British officials seek to recover the photographs by indirectly hiring disposable thieves to break into the bank.

While these photographs are introduced as the primary conflict, the movie's overall plot is made far more complex through the introduction of other side characters who bring with them their own individual interests. Such a large number of characters and a diversity of stories operating simultaneously might normally bog a movie down, however, "The Bank Job" largely avoids doing this by lightly bouncing between its many individual conflicts, and by slowly allowing its characters to develop. By the end of the movie, what was supposed to be a typical bank heist movie instead becomes much more.

Jason Statham stars as Terry, an amiable middle class mechanic. When presented with what he believes to be a no-risk, high reward opportunity, Terry assembles a crew of equally opportunistic amateur thieves to pillage a London bank of its untold riches. Each of these characters is the make-up of a colorful personality one might expect to find in a heist movie, and it is because of these personalities that the movie functions the way it does. High tech gear is replaced by shovels and a very loud jackhammer; keen criminal intellect is replaced by humorous ignorance. These characters are after nothing more than the quick score that the job will provide, and as such it is only Terry that begins to suspect that his team's involvement might have larger, more dangerous ramifications.

By the end of the movie, Terry and his crew of misfits find themselves at a standoff with British government officials, a ruthless kingpin, and crooked cops, all wanting what's theirs.

Jason Statham performs admirably in this movie. Rather than the fearless, physical action star he's cast as in many of his other movies, in "The Bank Job" he by contrast is a much more normal character mixed up in abnormal circumstances. He is the central figure in this movie, and it is his dialogue and actions that largely drive most of the second half of the movie.

"The Bank Job" is a heist movie like no other, whose plot involves much more than a "get rich" scheme by its main characters. Instead, through a series of overlapping stories, the movie develops as a cool, intelligent retelling of an event still largely shrouded in myth. This movie is a must-see for those who love heists, intelligent action sequences, and an unpredictable series of events.