This movie is an EXCEPTIONAL piece of art; it maintains original storyline of the Broadway musical yet gives it a modern feel with these fresh, overly-talented actors &amp; if you can catch it, some sarcastic humor &amp; artistic vision &amp; metaphor!! I hardly ever agree with "the Academy", so I didn't see this until my mom rented it, (before this my favorite musical was RockyHorror, so I'm not really what you'd call 'mainstream').  I was BLOWN AWAY! So, ok, great movie-making, but then to realize that the actors do all of their own singing &amp; dancing? It's amazing!
The storyline is: We open on prima-donna starlett Velma Kelly, (Catherine Zeta-Jones), who gives a whole new meaning to "All That Jazz", she is supposed to be a sister act with Veronica who's missing at this point...in the audience is fresh-faced young Roxie Hart(Renee Zellweger), a girl with so many stars in her eyes she can't see reality and will do just about ANYTHING to ensure her place in Vaudeville. From this point its a fast-paced, intelligent, wryly humorous &amp; on-key ride as everyone attempts their proverbial 15 minutes (and hopefully more) of fame, no matter who gets shot in the process.  Velma is accustomed to being famous &amp; worshipped &amp; therefore getting her way, so she's a bit of a wench, whereas Roxie tries to catch the flies with honey &amp; is fairly naive, but as the story progresses, you see her learn quickly &amp; surpass others at getting AND KEEPING the attention. Billy Flynn,(Richard Gere),is the sly, sarcastic, silver-tongued lawyer hired to help the 2 girls...
Catherine Zeta-Jones has a musical &amp; theater background and it is very obvious as she showcases her many talents: she can sing, dance, act, acrobat, whatever. She's beautifully lethal, charming, and full of class, charisma &amp; hard work. Renee Zellweger, on the other hand had never sung or danced before, yet she plays with the best and DEFINITELY holds her own. She is VERY talented &amp; its almost more endearing that this was her 1st venture into a musical-theatre-type of arena. No one can just be trained to sing that well, they merely work with what's already there....Richard Gere has never been one of my favorites but I now really respect and admire him, he is also full of talent and surprises.  Queen Latifah hits the screen and you know she's serious, seriously funny &amp; talented! Also a surprise cameo by Lucy Liu, it also has John C.Reilly, Christine Baranski, Taye Diggs &amp; popstar Mya.
One last point is this: These 3 stars, Catherine, Renee, &amp; Richard were big stars already and in their own right, this was not needed to push them in better, they did it because they rose to the challenge &amp; were perfectly cast. No one could have done better!  This is not just the movie of the year, but of the last few decades, not since Cabaret have I seen a musical put on film &amp; done right &amp; this one's better!! It deserved every acclaim it got--these people worked HARD...(I've seen it 100 times &amp; can't find 1 mistake). CHEERS!! Here's to Nowadays...enjoy it while it lasts cuz in 50 years or so it'll change, you know... :)