I have been a Conan fan since 1972, when my big brother Johnny and his wife,Sharyn, bought me my first Conan book 'cause I was intrigued by the cover.One read, and I was hooked! Little did any of us know then, that Johnny's beautiful wife would die only four years later.
Johnny himself was my lifelong best friend/fill-in dad/and hero. Where I was a geek;he was the family black sheep, given to brooding; brawling (he never lost a fight in or out of the boxing ring!)and a temper that made The Hulk look like a school-girl. I tell you this, not to share my life's story,but to explain my vested interest in;indeed, love for,the character REH created. Because, with the rage; the blue eyes; the brooding; the lustiness;etc.,when I read the books, I saw Johnny as the character. Sadly, I lost him 2 years ago.And with him,my world.So, if anybody had a personal reason to view the new "Conan the Barbarian" with a wary eye, it was me. And I was blown away!
  I won't list each and every little thing they got right...we'd be here all day. But I will say that it is 90% the essence of Howard's character.There's also some of Thomas's; Truman's...hell, even a nod or two to Milius, who clearly didn't get Conan at all! (Groveling and whining at an enemies feet; looking ashamed,head down, refusing to meet a king's gaze, in a throne room?!This is NOT Conan! Where's the arrogance? The defiance in the face of his captors? The rage at his enemies?...In the Nispel version, that's where!)
  There are those who say it should have gone to a Cameron; a Jackson; even Ridley Scott or Mel Gibson. Jackson, based on the first 2 "Rings" films, okay. But "Return of the King";"King Kong"? They are 'disappointing' to be kind. Cameron hasn't made a film with true excitement and rooting interest since "Aliens";Scott has way too many muted conversations and far too much "Saving-Private-Ryan"-shaky-cam action in "Gladiator and His "Kingdom of Heaven" & "Robin Hood"? Yawn! Gibson has too many scenes of basically the same conversation between Robert the Bruce and Wallace in "Braveheart" and his action is either poorly photographed or nonexistant.(A siege that sort of begins;is never shown;and the next scene we see Wallace and company fleeing the burning ruins? Sheesh!)
  Howard's Conan lived life.His actions,swift and brutal;his lustiness almost without measure; a "Blood red haze" didn't swim before his eyes because he was the village idiot(like the '80s versions.) He ate and drank all aspects of life like a starving man at a feast.And this is what the 2011 film captures: with its cast; its director;its photography;its costuming...even the music is better than I expected. Is it perfect? No.Duh. Movies are made by people and people are far from it.But Mamoa owns the part like Craig owns Bond.And the rest of the cast backs him up at every turn. If you've only seen it once( or worse,took a friend's advice and not seen it at all) give it a chance on dvd. It pays homage to almost every incarnation of the character and Mamoa is riveting to watch.And for less than 100 million dollars? In this day and age? Hell, it looks like it cost twice that much!
Finally,I can say, after almost forty years, I've seen the 'real' Conan on the screen! I just hope the spirit of my big brother was there to see it with me. Rick Garrett