First of all, "The Wild Bunch," with restored footage, is a masterpiece, possible the best western ever made. Sam Peckinpah loved the west and the passing of his mythic west. Yes, the battles in this movie are gory, and Peckinpah wants us to "feel" the killings. There is  real pain, real suffering,and the feeling of real loss. This film, for all  its touted violence, is a poem of loss, how aging outlaws come to the sad  fact that they have "outlived their guns." After the harsh  beginning, the movie settles with a beautiful rythum, of visits to a  Mexican village, where the killers are given flowers as they leave. The  cast is great. Wiiliam Holden has never been better. Ernest Borgnine is  also superb. Ben Johnson, that great cowboy from many John Ford films, and  Warren Oates are fabulous, as the infamous Gorch Brothers. They steal  almost every scene they are in. The added footage makes clearer a few  things but I preferred the original cut, for it was swifter, more furious,  if that is possible, and left me with more regret. The cinematography is  wonderful, and you can almost taste the flavor of the dust of Texas and  Mexico. Peckinpah gives free rein to his supporting actors; the bounty  hunters are a startling bunch themselves,led by a guilt-ridden Robert Ryan,  who wishes he were with the bunch he is tracking. There are poetic flashes  everywhere: the scenes in the viiliage where a young senorita makes little  boys out of the Gorch Brothers, the first battle, going haywire on both  sides, until there seems to be no right or wrong but just a slaughtering of  innocent townsfolk caught in the crossfire. the bunch arguing then  laughing, bonding them together, the blown up bridge cracking and the  horses falling as if forever falling into the muddy river, and before the  final battle, the bunch with protitutes, sad, knowing this is their last  day, a lone bird fluttering on the floor. And then the Climax, a rousing,  blood-letting, fight to the death and beyond anything seen on the screen  before and in my opinion since,for this battle, everytime I watch it, lasts  only ten or so minutes but seems to last forever, as each member of the  bunch reaching out for each other, knowing that this is the end, maybe of  their kind, but something greater;the gift of living life to the fullest  and in the end, the great musical score of Jerry Fielding framing the bunch  as they ride into legend. One of my top ten films of all  time.