The Virgin Suicides Review
 Overall I really am not sure if I liked the film or not because I really didn't understand it, but if I had to chose I would have to say yes.  I would recommend others to see The Virgin Suicides but not to go into it with high expectations.  I appriciated the film but it was not all it was cracked up to be, it was not nearly as scary as I originally thought; it was more disturbing. I do feel that this film was better than other films that deal with adolescent self-deconstruction because of the fact that there never really was a reason why.  That is a question that plaques family members of teenagers who commit suicide.
 The fact that there never really is a cut and dry reason why the Lisbon girls committed suicide really intrigued me and actually was the particular part that I liked the most.  Ending the film without a reason why leaves the mind to wonder, leaving you confused but fascinated at the same time. Never really knowing, for some reason makes you want to watch the film again to see if there was something you missed or that was some secret hidden meaning. People can easily become as fascinated to know why as the neighborhood boys are in the film to know why.
 I feel that the film's main message was to show adolescent sexuality and deconstruction intertwined.  There was no clear-cut message it was all mixed up into one confusing plot.  Sofia Coppola, the director and writer did a great job at capturing the 1970's view on teen sexuality. Girls were called sluts for dressing a certain way or having sex.  Boys were praised for multiple sex partners and sexy clothes.  She also showed how pretty girls were idolized by their male counterparts while the others just fell into the crowed like Cecilia, the youngest Lisbon sister and also the first to kill herself.
 This film did a great job capturing the realties of that particular youth culture. Parents were overprotective, girls were kept sheltered and boys were kept on tight leashes.  Ms. Coppola also showed the double standards of the 1970's that boys could have fantasies and act on them where girls could not do that while being respected at the same time.
Sofia Coppola also showed how suicide was labeled as accidental back then when they were indeed suicides to protect the name of the child.  Suicide was a major part of this film but I feel it was used to show what life was like for teens during the seventies.  Teens did enough self-deconstruction to themselves without going as far as suicide.  Suicide was used as an outlet to depict teenage life at that time, not to deny that it was there but its purpose was not to show how all teenagers kill themselves when life got to rough.