I've seen this movie and loved it for the following reasons:
1. It pumps up my respect for the Navahos, their culture, and cheer their long-over-due honor
2. It shows that war is incredibly nasty... just examine the casualties in the two battles show on the film.
3. From the caualities seen in this film, who would ever deny the importance of the Navaho code to World War II. After seeing the film, I'm still wondering how many prospective casualies the code prevented since its introducion.
4. John Woo's love for action and ballet-style moves do exist in this film. This film bombards out plenty of action scenes and those bodies being scattered over the air and ground are seen in slow and distinctive ballet-moves.
5. Our real service men are diversified in cultures, philosophical ideals, and different modes of up-bringing and grooming. The cast playing the marines definitely support the diversity theory. Who ever dare say discrimination doesn't exist during those days?
6. Glad this movie is not done in slow documentary style that will either bore the general non-academic folks, or prevent the Navaho topic being discussed by a wider audience. This film will definitely be see by a wider world population.
7. I cheer the performance of all actors, including Cage. Could definitely feel their change of attitudes toward their fellow marines within this film. And Cage looks like one true confused individual (just surviving to kill!) at the beginning, but manage to show his humane side (relationship bonding in the battlefield) at the end. Even the nurse has a credible role. It's her blind love (for Cage's character) that allows him to get back to work. What woman would risk her job to lie for her man, if not for love?  Obviously she must be so deeply in love to keep writing those letters!
8. Even though I'm confused as to whether the "shoot to kill to safeguard the code" is fact or fiction (have heard different sides to the story), I thought the concept, provided by the script writer, does succeed in stressing the crucial importance of the code.
9. Love the way the personalities of the Navahos are portrayed. Don't they match the gentle and unassuming attitudes of the real-life Navahos? After all they've never harped or imposed their importance upon the nation all these years?
10. Sure the film is history decorated by the frills of Hollywood and by those manificent and costly talents of technological aspects, but that's what make this film attractive to a wider audience. Yes, as a result, it does bring the awareness of the Navahos and their code on a broader scale. So what, the contents don't adhere completely to facts. Forgive my saying, the majority of folks watching movies are smart enough never to take any movie as holding gospel truths!
11. Yep, I'm rating it 5 stars. Why, it has the ingredients that spike my and many people's interest about the Navahos and their code, and at long last spur up interest to their relevance in history!
Well done "Windtalkers"!