These five films were some of Bette's best work for Warner Bros. For each, she garnered an Academy Award nomination (earning ten nominations in her prolific career, and two well-deserved wins.)

In "The Star" Bette is an aging actress who can't face that she is past her prime. In an iconic moment, she grabs her Academy Award statue (a prop of Bette's own) and slurs, "Come on Oscar, let's you and me go get drunk!"

"Mr. Skeffington" stars Davis and her dear friend Claude Raines. Bette is the most beautiful woman in New York, who never seems to age. For decades she retains her beauty and several suitors, despite having a faithful husband (Raines.) But when she becomes ill, her appearance drastically changes and she is forced to hide her face behind a veil.

The role of Judith Traherne in "Dark Victory" was always Bette's favorite. Made in 1939, this film was a massive critical success. Judith Traherne is a carefree heiress who has always brushed past any of life's unpleasantries. But when her headaches become insufferable and her eyesight unrealiable, her friends fear the worst. Her doctor (George Brent) becomes romantically involved with her and tries to conceal the truth about her condition, which may prove fatal. Brent and Davis were conducting their own love affair during filming, which resulted in specatacular on-screen chemistry.

William Wyler ("Jezebel"), a former lover of Davis, directed her for a second time in "The Letter," the twisted story of a woman who can kill without remorse.

Charlotte Vale is a favorite Davis character for many of her fans. "Now Voyager" is the story of a woman who struggles with feelings of inadequacy, and is afraid to go against her controlling mother's wishes, although she knows she is ruining her life. Originally Davis wanted Max Steiner's music to be edited out of the film because she thought it was distracting from her performance. When the Oscars were given out, Steiner won for Best Original Score, and Davis went home empty-handed. Paul Henreid, and Claude Raines compliment Davis in this flawless film. "Oh Jerry, don't let's ask for the moon...we have the stars!"