I would have no beef with this release, even the fact that Lucas is asking us to double dip less than a year after the original trilogy was released to DVD the first time, if only, ONLY, they were presented with anamorphic widescreen. Is that too much to ask? Billion dollar LucasArts and Industrial Lights & Magic can't put be bothered to release product that is up to current standards? Once again, old man Lucas slaps his fan base in the face.

Quite frankly, with the release of the God-awful prequels, the ridiculously idiotic "Special Editions" (with the "Fraggle Rock"- style Jabba's Palace musical number) of the original trilogy, and countless other insults to my intelligence, anything I ever loved about Star Wars has been soiled.

I like to watch movies, I enjoy the cinematic art, but all this baggage required to enjoy Star Wars these days is too much effort for too little reward. It feels more like I'm watching a video game than a film. Let the mindless geeks that bow to Lucas' every whim open their wallets and throw their hard earned geek money down. But I doubt the general population are going to care much longer. Their numbers have to be dwindling, and eventually their numbers will be so low that perhaps Lucas will see the error of his ways and treat the original films with some shred of respect. You can't go back, George. It was 1977. What's done is done. Be proud of your accomplishments. They were 3 good films. They stood the test of time.

But now they are gone. You can have `em, for a couple of months, but you can't watch them with your HD televisions. You want 1977, then you watch it with 1977 equipment, right George? What a sick maniac he is. Evil is the only word that sums him up.

All Lucas' tinkering has made a mess of things. Hey, I'm all for cleaning up the picture and maybe making certain special effects look a little nicer (Landspeeder pink glow? Transparent Snow Speeders? I got no problem with him touching those up). But I find alterations that greatly change the flow of the film (or, in the case of the CGI Jabba in A New Hope and the ghastly new Jabba Palace song, brings the films to a screeching halt). It's impossible to watch the films without being annoyed. Heck, I can't even enjoy the sinister "Darth Vader" since I know there's a sniveling little twerp inside the costume.

Yep, the world of Star Wars is forever ruined, and I couldn't care less if I ever see any of the films again as long as I live. I felt tempted to buy this set just out of desperation, but I have to take a stand. We are the enablers who give him the money and power to do these things. We are the ones who can send a message, even if that message will be misinterpreted or fall on deaf ears.

If you need me, I'll be watching Wrath of Khan. At least I know I'll be seeing the real film, not some mess made by the constant tinkering of a stumbling, demented old fool. Kirk shoots the Ceti eel first!