As the title character, Matthew Quigley, Tom Selleck, plays an American sharpshooter hired by an Australia landowner, Elliot Marston (Alan Rickman) to kill dingoes. On arriving in Australia, Quigley immediately becomes  entangled with Crazy Cora  (Laura San Giacomo) who thinks he is her  husband. When Quigley and Cora arrive at Marston Waters, he finds that he  has been hired to kill Aborigines instead of dingoes. He objects by  knocking Marston through double glass doors. Marston has both he and Cora  beaten and left in the Australian desert to die. Saved by Aborigines,  Quigley spends the rest of the movie protecting both them and Cora from  Marston ending in an old fashioned OK Corral type shoot-out.
The plot is  weak - typical western fare with very good "good guys" and very bad "bad  guys" - but the actors are exceptional. Selleck plays his typical take all  comers, macho man who can out fight and out shoot any man, but has  absolutely no idea what to do with a woman. His total inability to deal  with Crazy Cora is hilarious and the heart of the movie. San Giacomo's  portrayal of Cora is excellent progressing from crazy to sane as her  relationship with Selleck adds stability (as an aside, there is ~16" in  height difference between Selleck and San Giacomo, but excellent  photography hides the fact until the end of the movie). Rickman, as always,  is the best bad guy a movie director could ask for. His evil sneer should  be copyrighted. 
If you are looking for in depth character development,  deep, intellectually challenging dialog, and conscience raising social  statements, you may want to forego this one. If you want a relaxing evening  with enough action to be interesting and comedy to keep it light hearted,  this may well be just the movie for you.
I saw the movie both on the big  screen, television and VSH version. The television version stinks. It is so  cut that it completely destroys the movie. The VHS version is okay, but it  just does not do justice to the incredible photography of the Australian  landscape nor the outstanding musical score. I look forward to the DVD  version if it is ever released.