that line from the trailer is a surprisingly insightful comment on the matter. much as i've always loved Steve Martin - what DVD collection is complete without THREE AMIGOS!, ROXANNE, PLAINS TRAINS & AUTOMOBILES, THE MAN WITH TWO BRAINS, or FATHER OF THE BRIDE? - i ultmately have about as much affection for THE JERK as i have for Adolf Hitler. i just didn't find it all that amusing. it was so unbearable for me, in fact, that i might very well of favored crucifiction for Steve Martin, were i not already a fan.
and more to the point, DEAD MEN DON'T WEAR PLAID does indeed make up for it's ancestor. of course it doesn't hurt that i was an old movie buff as well.
Martin, who co-wrote the script with director/co-star Carl Reiner, is virtually faultless in the role of cookie-cutter film noir private eye Rigby Reardon. the basic but irrestisible gimmick is that Reardon gets to intereact with the likes of Humphrey Bogart, James Cagney, Ingrid Bergman, Alan Ladd, Cary Grant, Ava Gardner, Kirk Douglas, Fred MacMurray, Vincent Price, Veronica Lake, and Charles Laughton via clever editting. what's more, DEAD MEN did so a good 12 years before one of the most overrated films of all time, FORREST GUMP, took home one of it's many erroneous Oscars for supposedly inventing the technique (if not the idea)!
the hilarity is potent and consistent, and the story is just strong enough to of been a straight film noir plot of the time. this is a particularly pleasant surprise, given the slapdash way the story would've had to be cobbled together to accomodate the already released footage it borrows.
for my money, DEAD MEN DON'T WEAR PLAID is the absolute pinnacle of Steve Martin's career in front of the camera. but alas, it remains just about the most underrated movie ever made. (only "just about" because such other films i've reviewed as THE SEVEN-PER-CENT SOLUTION and THE SHADOW are also vying for the title.) fortunately though, it's just appreciated enough to be readily available on DVD for you to experience (wink, wink).