Here we go again...yet another over-hyped, underwhelming, v cinematic suppository. This movie is just like its predecessors - The Blair Witch Project, Open Water, The Descent, and Wolf Creek to name a few - in claiming to be a movie "so scary you will crap yourself then be traumatized for life afterward." All of these movies claimed the same thing and were all terrible, boring films with little to no scares. I have had enough already, and I cannot fathom how any finds this or any of the aforementioned titles to be the least bit scary. Unless you find suddenly slamming doors, random grunts, and loud crashes out of no where to be scary. This movie is about as frightening as Milo & Otis.

The Age of Innocence moves faster than this movie. There is no real build up, and is just generally boring throughout. Nothing happens until about the last minute of the movie but it is a moot point by then because the rest of the movie was so utterly slow and pointless. I don't watch these movies so that I can watch people argue in docu-drama style, that is about all that seems to happen. If I want to experience real-life arguments, I will step outside and listen to my white trash neighbors go at it. This is a typical horror movie filmed in documentary style and they all follow the same mundane formula. Boring dialog that escalates into arguments with a few minor scares usually in the form of random noises by unseen things. The whole experience in the end is big let down and I can't understand how moviegoers and critics alike still praise this awful form of film making. Or how people continue to find this crap scary, I will just never understand it. The scariest part of watching this movie was my fiance's sudden loud snore when you feel asleep without my knowledge!

I am steering clear from anymore of these " scariest movie of all time" claims from here on out. I am big fan of the horror genre and how looking for something that will give me a good scare. I don't scare easily and have been a big horror fan all my life which is maybe why I never find the alleged scare claims to be true. To each his own I guess but if you are going to make such big boasts for god sakes please deliver for once and stop wasting my time and money.

One of the taglines for this movie was "What happens when you sleep?" If you want find out, pop this movie in and you will be asleep in no time.