This is a terrible movie, truly.  It can be enjoyable if taken in the same spirit as Ed Wood fare or a Disney movie from the 70's.

I tolerate romantic-comedies as required watching, and I would love to see the genre skewered, drowned, and burned by a comedic genus.  This is not the film to do it.

A sampling of faults:

-  Most scenes are far too long and drawn out for the target audience.

-  A script offering too little material to fill a standard motion picture.

-  Actors almost perform to an acceptable level, almost.

-  Unleveled audio mixing!  Even direct to DVD movies (usually) have acceptable audio -mixing!

-  The genre chosen to parody already relies heavily on parody; a parody of a parody is unsuccessful when approached on an obvious surface level.

Two bonus features of this disk, the unrated DVD edition, are awesome and worth the price of a rental and possible a purchase as they provide a one-off form of entertainment from an unexpected and fresh angle.

"The Quickie" is the entire feature chopped down to a six minute form that manages to convey both the plot (such that exists in the feature) and all of the gags that actually draw laughs.  "The Quickie" demonstrate that "Date Movie" should've been a segment on Saturday Night Live, Mad TV, or similar television show.  Skip the feature, just watch "The Quickie" and then move on to the "Anti-Commentary"

"The Anti-Commentary" is a real jewel, a bonus audio track featuring two film editors, one who hated the film, and the other who feels compelled to apologize for writing a review that suggested that some people may enjoy this movie.  Neither critic is particularly witty or charming, but they do speak honestly and lucidly for the duration of the film, and I found listening to them enormously entertaining.  They do not try to be funny, like the "critics" in Mystery Science Theater 3000, and they do not understand why they were asked to do the commentary or how it will benefit the studio or the filmmaker.  Rather, these intelligent and articulate men, without being pompous and while remaining earnest, talk about the movie and the context of the movie, and as an absurdist legal limitation they are forbidden to mention the names of the movies being parodied.  "The Anti-Commentary" was a brave choice, and I am very thankful that it was included.  Similar features should become standard fare.