Children of Heaven

 How often does a movie like Children of Heaven come along?  An intriguing story about a simple family living in Iran.  What makes Children of Heaven even more exciting are the subtitles that you have to read to follow the movie.  Iranian families do not have much of the material things in their lives, but they do have loving families with their own way of living life.  Writer/director, Majid Majidi, tells a story with no explosions, no fight scenes, and no special effects, and gets his point across clearly, that a loving family can make it in life if they stick together and make things work.  Majidi wrote a story about how a poor Iranian family copes with their day-by-day existence and their financial problems.  Not excited?  It may not be the most exciting to read about on paper, but watch the 90 minutes of enjoyable film and get a whole new perspective.  Children of Heaven portrays an excellent moral for viewers of all ages, gives children and adults an eye-opening outlook on life, and sends many emotions rushing through a viewer's body by the end of the film (Foreign Films).

 Children of Heaven portrays an excellent moral for viewers of all ages.  The movie itself is not about Zahra's lost shoe, Dad's difficulty find work, or Ali's placement in the footrace, it is simply the fact that these events bring their family closer together and make them stronger.  Ali had two objectives to get done on that bright crisp morning.  They were, to bring back Zahra's newly repaired shoes from the cobbler and to pick up a sack of potatoes from the market for his mother.  Ali did accomplish both of those tasks, but to gather potatoes he set down Zahra's shoes, and, while sorting through a bin, a rag picker mistakenly took the shoes thinking they were part of the stand owners refuge.  After returning home with potatoes and no shoes, Zahra broke into tears.  Zahra's only concern was that she now had no way to get to school the next morning.  Being the nice brother that he is, Ali offered to let Zahra wear his shoes in the morning and she was to run them back to him after her classes as fast as she could so that he could get to school on time.  Ali lets Zahra wear his shoes everyday and makes Zahra promise that she will not tell their father so he does not get into trouble.  To young children, keeping a secret is an extremely hard thing to do. When Zahra has to promise to keep Ali's secret, she reminds me of kids these days that try to hid things from their parents and get away with stuff.  Although most kids do not get beaten if they do something wrong, they may get into trouble, and no child wants to be in trouble with their parents. The moral of this film is to work together as a family.  If you can achieve that you will have a healthy family relationship and you will grow together to have very strong family ties.

 Children of Heaven gives children and adults and eye-opening outlook on life.  Although you children may not understand what is going on in the film because of the language barrier, adults and children alike can read the subtitles and get and even more in-depth view of this incredibly film.  This film shoes people of all ages that there are other people in the World, that live completely different lives than the way we live in America.  Children of Heaven portrays an image that although the Iranian family may be poor, they still have a fun, happy, and loving lifestyle.  When Ali and his father set out to find gardening jobs in the rich inner city, it shows audiences that working for your money may be easy where we live in America, but when it comes to the Iranian family earning money, essentially to eat dinner that evening, it makes viewers look upon themselves and re-evaluate how they earn and spend their money.  Watching this film will make Americans realize that they should be more appreciative of all the material things that they have in life.

 Children of Heaven has many emotional boundaries that viewers can be pushed toward by the end of the film.  When Ali returns home with no shoes and Zahra sees him for the first time, it breaks your heart to see the adorable little girl standing there with tears in her eyes.  There are lots of emotions floating throughout every actor in the film.  When father is trying to find a job, simply to support the sick child that they have at home, and when Ali goes through all the trouble to find Zahra's shoes, they are both putting out how much they care about one another.  People have many emotions, and to see a poor Iranian family happy because it is raining out or because they simply get to attend school, it makes you sad and happy at the same time.  To think that they have so much less that anyone else in America and are just as happy, makes everyone's heart feel happiness and to some, they may even feel guilty.

 Children of Heaven may never be your first choice at a movie store, but it shouldn't be your last choice either.  If you are looking for a good family film to enjoy one evening, I believe Children of Heaven would be an excellent choice.  Not only is it an emotional and stunning film, it is written to such an extent that makes you realize what other people go through in life to be happy.  I think Children of Heaven is an exceptional film, but I never would have chosen it over a comedy or action movie until now.  Children of Heaven will portray an excellent moral for audiences of all ages, it will give children and adults an eye-opening outlook on life, and it will send many emotions rushing through your body.

 Sources

1.)  Foreign Films.com  Children of Heaven(1997).  http://www.foreignfilms.com/films/2400.asp