Some time ago, I saw the remake of this film with Gene Hackman.  I wasn't much impressed.  Recently, I stumbled on a DVD version of the remake and decided to compare it with this 1952 classic.

Let me now be perfectly clear.  If you have any wish to retain even a vestige of respect for the remake, DO NOT view it in conjunction with this brilliant original!  With the single exception of Gene Hackman (who at least struggled to make some bricks, despite an acute lack of straw), the remake was lame in every possible respect.  Every line of dialogue, every plot point, every set-up, every individual frame was not only inferior to the original but clearly designed to be so by the writers, technical staff, director and producer.  The single-minded crumminess of the 1990 effort can only have arisen from some shared, manic delusion that they, each and all of them, were making improvements on the old film noir thriller.  Hooboy, were they wrong!

How does this sort of thing happen?  Exactly why does someone who has chosen to spend millions of dollars on remaking a movie decide to scrap everything that was good in the original and replace it with intellectually and artistically shabby merchandise?  Why, in short, would anybody exchange a taut, tense little thriller on a train with a big, dumb, clumsy action flick that largely takes place ON TOP of a train?

After venting on the iniquities of the recent generation of film makers, I shall now turn to an absolutely more congenial subject, an excellent film noir.  This is the twenty-sixth Amazon review.  Twenty-four earlier reviewers have described the merits of the film (and one bozo has scattered spoilers, each with a dull thud.)  I commend readers who wish information on the plot set-up and cast of "The Narrow Margin" to those twenty-four earlier reviews.  As for myself, I'll add only that this film is one of those low-budget, program pieces that sometimes popped out of the American studio system and unexpectedly committed real and unquestionable art.

Even though it originates somewhat late in the era of the film noir, "The Narrow Margin" is one of its finest exemplars.  It is taut, intense, single-minded, ruthless, and just a bit grimy--everything, in short, that a film noir ought to be.  Charles McGraw and Marie Windsor are just about perfect in their roles: all tough, hard surface and, appropriately, neither one of them obviously trustworthy.

This film is 72 minutes of pointed, lean, mean drama that covers about as much ground as one today's  bloated two-and-a-half hour epics.  Every shot in it is a testimonial to what was good about the old studio system.

For those in any doubt whatsoever about the true nature of film noir, the magnificently planned, lit and shot sequences in the grungy Chicago apartment building will serve at once as an introductory seminar and as a master class.

The quality of the print is first-rate, particularly when compared with the fuzzy, darkened, nth-generation trailer.

The commentary track is good on the effect "The Narrow Margin" had on the following generation of film makers, but a bit generic in regard to the film itself.  Still, I've experienced far worse with other DVDs.

This is a small classic: five hard-edged stars.