I in fact have read the books, while the most favorable reviews are from those who have not. Fans of the books are criticizing on the basis of how inaccurate it is according to the books. This reminds me of a purist friend of whom railed at Peter Jackson and the LOTR series. Movies will ALMOST NEVER match those of the book title being used. The minds imagination (along with UL's of course) are far more expansive and dramatic than any movie could ever be. It is a limited medium that was never meant to depict books accurately on the screen.

Realize that changes are made in the script as shooting the film occurs. Also, the movie isn't made from what is in the written script, isn't made from the vision of the Cinematographer, isn't made from a written book. It's made from the shots that reach the editing room when it's far to late for pick up shots and the budget runs out to reshoot. A movie will never behave or feel like a book as it is a different medium that only exists under the condition of compressed time, a disadvantage that a book need not deal with.

The acting in many places is not as high of performance level as one might like... but first and foremost, the movie is meant to entertain... most viewers are not experts on the books or the knowledge of the book(s) it was adapted from. Imagine how the audience would be limited if at first you had to read the book, or only enjoy it if you had.

I believe the production was average at best but I think that it also allowed a younger audience to enjoy... There was even a reviewer mentioning he enjoyed the movie till he read the books. He came to the books by way of the movie...  Most will never read the books just by the public's nature and w/out the movie exposure never come to them. Allow people to enjoy the movie without the notes of all the things that the writer got wrong... He didn't get them wrong... that's why it's called an adaption... things happen in the process of making a movie... a movie not a book. If you expect a movie to follow the book religiously you will almost always be disappointed. The changes were meant to widen the audience as much a politician does... some for better, some for worse... in the long run... a movie is not a book. That said I give the film only an average review neither horrible nor a standout... but clearly watchable. And regardless of what is said here, dedicated fans will demand the purest of accuracy... remember that Anne Rice eventually gave her blessing to the "Interview" movie(not all that accurate a depiction itself).