I enjoyed reading Krakauer's book at least ten years ago.  The book accepted the responsibility of trying to "solve the mystery" of McCandless's death, which at first glance is the only reason we'd be interested in this story.

Yet Krakauer's narrative incorporated the whole story of the young man, not just the specific events that lead to his death.  Was this because facts were desperately hard to come by (from Chris's acquaintances, the McCandless family, and certainly from Chris himself)?  Did Krakauer's editor needed some bulk (as I originally thought)?  Or was it because the nature of McCandless's realty was the more important story?

Coming after the book, the movie must accept the burden of its predecessor.  But in the case of "Into The Wild," Sean Penn took direct aim at the riddle of McCandless's individuality, circumstances, and personal reality, and how they shaped the events that lead to his death.  The movie places its emphasis on the person (vs. the mystery of how he died, the exact details of which we will never know), and I found this a very worthy approach.  Perhaps the McCandless family, after more than a decade had passed, was more comfortable sharing details about Chris's home life making it easier for Penn to explore their influence more deeply.

Unlike the less enthusiastic reviewers, I found the exploration into McCandless's personality to be absolutely facinating.  By nature, I am a saver of money; a conserver of personal resources.  I'm a person who is always thinking about my way out of a situation, ready with a plan "B." So I was facinated by McCandless, for whom practical concerns like this were irritating distractions.

He was a benevolent soul by any measure.  In lieu of feeding his body, he fed on life experience and challenge.  Was McCandless lonely throughout his journey?  We don't know until near the end.  Tragically, the little voices whispering warnings about risks and self-preservation inside his head, were inaudible to Chris McCandless.

Was he looking for freedom and adventure?  Or safety, understanding, and love - in a world in which he did not belong?

The highlights for me were the balanced screenplay taking the high road on all these issues, and the wonderful cast from top to bottom (particularly the Hal Holbrook performance - You start off wondering why such a small part could be Oscar nomination-worthy, then you watch it, and it breaks your heart, and you understand.)

I wonder if someone will (has it been done yet?) make a movie about Krakauer's book about Mt. Everest?