Leave the new KIRSTEN DUNST music video alone, and RUN purchase this extraordinary, just released, 1938 film with Norma Shearer as the French queen.

If you want to know where Meryl Streep got her acting technique from, watch Shearer. Yes, there are moments, mostly when she's required to 'enter' a scene, when she's over-directed - but one must remember this was almost seventy years ago, and talkies were only a decade old. The majority of her screen time is a master class for film actors: her choices are stunningly complex yet exquistely simple and truthful. They will leave you, literally, momentarily breathless. It is difficult to grasp, by the end of the movie, that the actor playing the young Hapsburg princess is the same actor awaiting execution. One knows it's Norma Shearer, but she somehow has actually aged before our eyes, without the help of heavy makeup or props. The journey from Vienna to Versailles, to the Conciergerie to the Place de la Concorde is made by an actor whose ability to show her character's soul transforming, moment to terrible moment, defies comparison or explanation. The sole performance which comes close to this is perhaps Vivien Leigh's in STREETCAR, but that would come nearly twenty years later and even it, like much of Streep's work, seems 'mannered' when referencing Shearer's Marie.

The film is a wonder of imagery and restrained scoring - and the DVD transfer immaculate. The supporting cast, with the exception of a beautiful but rather wooden young Tyrone Power, is a dream. The discreet scale of the sets and the luminous costumes make the point that we are in another world, without overpowering us - the way the modern film does. This is also thanks to the extraordinary power of silver nitrate film stock, which has never been equaled since - in color or black and white. The script is poignant, smart and brutally honest.

Every actor, desiring to work in film, should buy this to study Shearer's seemless work. Every lover of history should purchase this for the remarkable job it does shedding intimate light on such a chaotic time. Every movie collector must own this DVD, for it contains - at its incandescent center - one of the greatest renderings of a human being's frailty, strength and suffering.