Life out of Balance
As Western Civilisation tears a path across Earth, it leaves the debris of its construction scattered over the surface of the planet. America's `purple mountained majesty' and `spacious skies' have fallen to strip mines and heavily patrolled air space. Biological evolution has become irrelevant, replaced by the manipulation of our environment and genetic modification. We are rapidly constructing a civilisation of destruction. We have raped the earth of her beauty and replaced it with towers of corporate power and industrial wastelands. We have dehumanised ourselves, disconnected of earth itself we lose all identity as human creatures and are now but the interchangeable parts of a global machine.
It is the horror of what we have become that forms the core of Godfrey Reggio's Koyaanisqatsi. By juxtaposing the cool tranquillity of nature against the frantic rat race of man, Reggio demonstrates to us just how far we are removed from our origins. Unlike the desert calm or rolling clouds, we are the violent actions of Earth. Volcanoes, we erupt upon the surface, creating havoc and destroying all that lie in our path. Reggio prompts us to ask ourselves why we are what we have become.
Koyaanisqatsi, despite dating to 1983, is still highly relevant. It's timeless. It transcends the barriers of language, relying only upon images and music to transmit its message. The message is sometimes confused, hidden behind a façade of beauty, but it is in this façade that the message is found. The juxtaposition of nature's beauty against man's hideous creations is intended to reveal our true nature. Our awesome construction projects, the very indicator of our power, are ugly. The fabric of our society, the web we weave, is weak. Every inch we raise ourselves above what is considered base, is merely another inch for us to fall.
Reggio's film is a cinematic masterpiece. Each shot is beautifully composed, offering us new perception into the world we spend our every waking moment in. However, it is in the manipulation of the images that the message is created. By under and over cranking the camera, Reggio changes not only our visual perception but also our relationship with time. He is able to isolate people on the crowded streets of New York and Los Angeles, slowing the rush of a nine to five existence. The sense of worthlessness is overwhelming, these individuals are lost amongst the masses, one of millions who crowd the streets. Yet for a few brief seconds this individual is bought to a near halt, immortalised on celluloid. It demonstrates the very banality of modern human existence. Humanity strives for immortality is some form or another, but in our very quest we have wrought our own destruction.
Humanity's zenith has passed. In the final shot of the film, one which lasts several minutes, we watch a shuttle launch into space. Space exploration, man's greatest achievement, becomes a metaphor for its creator. As the craft rises above the earth it carries the hopes of a species. It is majestic, the pinnacle of technology, the culmination of 100 000 years of modern human existence. However, like man, the craft is doomed for failure. As the explosion tears the craft apart, so are the dreams of man strewn across the empty sky. The camera follows a piece of flaming debris as it falls to earth. This is our fate. As Lucifer fell from heaven, so must man fall from grace.
The film attempts to illustrate the flaws of man. In our success lies our failure. It does not advocate any cause or lifestyle, it merely informs us of who we are and what we will become of our future should we continue as we are.