I can't even begin to describe Friends. I've been watching that show since I was, like, seven years old. I have successfully seen every episode (except maybe one or two of which I have no knowledge of not having seen).
Though imperfect (i.e. Monica and Chandler immediately leaving the hospital, no one else going to the hospital with them, leaving the twins in the apartment and then going across the hall), this episode did definite justice to the entire series, tying most loose ends.
Ross and Rachael did get together, but that's no surprise. Monica and Chandler adopted children and it turned out they were twins, but I'm as unsure as you as to how they couldn't have realized that beforehand. Even prior to this episode, we saw the outcome of Janice and in this episode, we saw Gunther - at last - confess his undying love for Rachael. We even got to learn the history of the disappearance of the chick and the duck!
The only loose ends I would have liked to have seen get tied up are those of Richard, Chandler, and Phoebe. We never really did find out if Richard found happiness in life sans-Monica. Phoebe never saw her mother during these last episodes. And Chandler seems to have ammends left to be made with his sexually-open mother and his homosexual father.
I would also have liked to have seen Monica and Chandler move into their own house and Rachael and Ross get engaged and Joey have gotten on with his moving to LA. Oh yes, and I wished Phoebe and Mike would have had more screentime together as a married couple, and maybe Phoebe get pregant, but that's all just wishful thinking.
To wrap things up (I must be boring you), this was not the best Friends episode ever; it was not the funniest, it was not the most dramatic, and it wasn't very romantic - but the times we spend with our friends rarely are, and so it seems that all justice was served towards the tremendous series. I feel like a part of my life has been dead since Chandler jokingly asked "Where?" they would get a cup of coffee.
Excuse me, I think my keyboard is getting screwed up from all of my tears dripping onto the keys.