I remember selling this CD out of my personal collection at a record show about 10 years ago. After seeing a used copy dirt cheap in a second-hand store, I figured I'd buy it again. But after listening to it, I now remember why I sold it in the first place.

Let me start by saying that I really love the first two Fastway albums ('Fastway' and 'All Fired Up'), with a little less love for their third (Waiting for the Roar) due to the introduction of cheesy keyboards into a mainly blues-oriented, straight-up rock band. Sadly, the soundtrack for Trick or Treat features only 7 new songs by the band, with the final two being from the first and second albums. I'm not sure if this was the contractual obligation album or what, but I wouldn't be surprised if it was. If it wasn't for the song AFTER MIDNIGHT, I wouldn't even rate it 2 stars. This is really the only gem on the album and, even with its over-processed vocals and drums, rocks... and rocks hard. The only other songs that even remotely approach the power of After Midnight are STAND UP and GET TOUGH, which both have issues of their own. Stand Up takes a while to get going, but finally starts to rock with it's anthemic chorus and some catchy guitar riffs which are notably absent in the rest of the album's new songs. Get Tough, a song that's only 3:30, wastes the first 40 seconds with some atmospheric/ambient synth noise leaving the song proper at 2:50. It's another anthem with a catchy hook and the same processed sound as After Midnight, but it's still a solid rocker.

The rest of the songs are just a hodge-podge of mediocrity. Perhaps they were given a deadline by the record label and it's all they could come up with. Regardless, it's about what you'd figure an 80s movie about a dork turned metal rockstar (Skippy from 'Family Ties' was the star of the film) would contain. The title track is just ho-hum, not helped any by synth drums, which only magnifies how much better the following song, After Midnight, is. DON'T STOP THE FIGHT, the longest new song, is again, nothing remarkable. TEAR DOWN THE WALLS, on the other hand, is the shortest song on the album at two minutes and, in fact, comprises only about 30 seconds of music which features a generic guitar/drum ditty with David King (who sounds to me like a cross between Janis Joplin and Robert Plant) singing "Tear down the walls" and group vocals echoing him. The final new song is HOLD ON TO THE NIGHT which sounds more like RADAR LOVE with new lyrics... just without all the cool stuff in it that made Radar Love a great cruising song.

As mentioned earlier, the final two songs were previously released and are also the longest songs on this album, likely because they needed to fill the rest of side B on the LP. They are probably the two darkest songs in Fastway's repertoire, which isn't saying much, but makes sense as to why they were on the soundtrack. HEFT!, from Fastway's debut album, is a plodding-but-ballsy blues song with some good vocal hooks. IF YOU COULD SEE hails from their second album and is a very tasty (dare I say) power-ballad, just not cheesy like what most people would envision - there are no keyboards and and it's not some sappy sentimental crap. Still, these two songs and After Midnight cannot save this album, which is an overall lackluster effort.

For Fastway in their prime, do yourself a favor and buy their first two albums which are available on a single CD. You will also want to avoid their later output which became nothing but synth-driven drivel and saw vocalist David King exiting Fastway and forming the band Katmandu.