"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" takes place in a state hospital just prior to the deinstitutionalization movement in the 1960s.  The main character is R.P. McMurphy, played by Jack Nicholson.

 McMurphy is brought to the hospital in handcuffs.  In his intake interview with Dr. Spivey, the ward doctor, he is initially polite and seems normal.  Dr. Spivey reviews his history of belligerent behavior.  McMurphy is a criminal with five arrests for assault, and a more recent charge of statuary rape.  At the prison farm, he was rebellious and lazy, and has now been sent to the state hospital to determine if he is mentally ill. McMurphy shows no remorse and makes light of his behavior.  For instance, when asked about the rape, he claims that the girl was sixteen and told him she was eighteen, that she was eager for sex, and that any man would have done the same as he did.

 Although McMurphy claims that there is nothing really wrong with him, he is kept at the state hospital and placed under Nurse Ratchard's authority.  Nurse Ratchard is a grim woman who keeps strict control of the eighteen men on her ward.  There are voluntary patients who pass their days by smoking and playing cards, and more severely disabled patients who live in their own worlds.  None of the men have any real control over their lives, and no one seems to have much chance of getting any better.  Indeed no one seems to care very much if they get better or not.

 The treatment given consists of medications and group therapy sessions led by Nurse Ratchard, whose version of therapy has more in common with police interrogation than the client-centered therapy envisioned by Rogers.  Nurse Ratchard grills the patients about their personal problems and makes them more anxious and insecure than before.  Most of them are obviously terrified of her, and she seems to like it that way.  Yet McMurphy continually challenges her authority and refuses to be intimidated.  He uses his powers of persuasion and manipulation to lead the other men against her.  First he calls for a vote on watching the World Series (contrary to the usual routine) and later he steals a bus and takes the other men on an unauthorized deep sea fishing trip upon a stolen boat.  He seems to think that there will be no consequences for his behavior because he is already in a mental institution.  However, when he and two other patients fight with the ward orderlies, all three are given electroshock therapy as a punishment - a blatent violation of their rights.  Again, McMurphy makes light of it and assures everyone that he has not been subdued.

 After learning that the institution has the power to hold him indefinitely, McMurphy plans an escape with a friend.  However, he wants to perform one more act of defiance before leaving the hospital.  He sneaks in women and alcohol and throws a huge party for the other men.  During the wild night, he passes out from drinking and misses his chance to escape before Nurse Ratchard comes in the morning.  She is furious when she discovers what has happened and takes it out on young Billy Bibbit, an anxious and sometimes suicidal patient who has always been easy for her to manipulate.  Unable to handle her harsh attack, Billy kills himself.  Enraged, McMurphy turns on Nurse Ratchard and chokes her.  A male nurse intervenes before she dies, but her neck is injured, requiring a brace.  McMurphy is then removed to another ward where he is subjected to a lobotomy that leaves him in a vegetative state.  When returned to Nurse Ratchard's ward in that condition, his grieved friend quietly suffocates him and then carries out the escape plan that McMurphy had devised for the two of them.

  The adversarial relationship between McMurphy and Ratchard was harmful to both of them and to the others around them.  If only someone had intervened before things turned tragic!  Perhaps with a more understanding nurse and more respectful treatment, McMurphy could have used his influence over the other patients in a positive way.