More than any other, this film reveals Peter Weir as a human with tremendous awareness and deep conscience regarding the ongoing destruction of the original inhabitants of Australia. He wrote the "story" upon which his film is based.

The speculative element involving people who appear to be just ordinary white folks who are in fact not what they seem and tragic events resulting in large part from the casual way in which wealthier white Europeans exploit the resources of planet Earth while denying that their consensual reality and prevailing religious beliefs are not shared in common by everyone is an important moral statement.

Many are trained from birth to ignore and forget what is true about themselves. In forgetting, we are molded into someone who "fits in", very often to the detriment of ourselves and others. Some are born with gifts which frighten those who hold strong opinions about what constitutes "normalcy". Rather than embracing these gifts or simply permitting the person to retain what is unique and different about themselves, what is true is discouraged and suppressed.

Just as the indigenous people of what became America and the Tibetan people today, the Aboriginal Australians have had their tribal customs ridiculed, their sacred sites destroyed or made into tourist attractions. As with Native Americans, alcoholism became a serious problem. When human beings lose what is meaningful to them and are told that their knowledge, tradition and beliefs are wrong, they often seek comfort in oblivion. The tragedy of this result of attempts to "civilize" those who already have a superior, Tribal, culture continues today.

When one understands that the Dreamtime is real, that we are all in a sense dreaming even while we are awake and the perception of time being linear is, in fact, only a perception that is in fact incorrect (quantum physics 101 will verify the truth of my statement). When one can accept that a Shaman or spiritually evolved human possesses knowledge and can be strong enough to acquire abilities which most Western minds would deny being within the realm of possibility, this is "reality which is truer". Westerners who possess a prophetic gift are often misinterpreted, dismissed and denigrated unless they conform to the prevailing beliefs of the people around them. The "witch hunts" continue to this day, although burning people alive is no longer condoned.

This film casts white Europeans in a less than favorable light, because it tells the truth about the results of fear, greed and bigotry. This film also underscores the damage that is often done by the most popular religion of Westerners. If you believe Western white culture and its prevalent beliefs are superior, if you believe we can continue to exploit the resources of our planet without dire consequences, you will feel insulted by this film. To all others, I highly recommend The Last Wave.

Richard Chamberlain, an often underrated actor, was superbly cast. Peter Weir deserved huge accolades for this film which, once viewed, is never forgotten.