I am proud to say I own every film De Palma has ever made, and I feel that each one is extremely entertaining in its own way, making it a VERY worthwhile investment. Spending an entire afternoon viewing De Palma films sounds like a wonderful way to spend a day, and I know because I have done that a few times over the years. His films only get better with time, and/or with each subsequent viewing.

I can still remember when I first saw this over 24 years ago, and the impact it had on me; and, it is just as fresh today as it was then (the film AND the impact). I love all De Palma's films, but my favs of his are the one's he wrote and directed, like this one.

In 1973, after spending the last few years making great independent films like "Murder A La Mod", "The Wedding Party", "Greetings", and "Hi, Mom!", Brian De Palma was put on the map as the new Master Of Suspense with his first 'mainstream' film, "Sisters", a very demented, deranged, twisted, psychological horror film that rivals even the best of today's top thrillers. He uses themes that would continue throughout his career in this film: The doppleganger, split personalities, multiple personality disorder(s), mistaken identity, voyeurism, and horrifying psychological madness and murder and mayhem. And sinister satire!

The film stars Margot Kidder in her BEST performance ever. Margot Kidder will literally blow your mind, for she gives the performance of a lifetime achievement award in this. Her French accent was something else!! And, her performance as, not one, not two, but three radically different characters was phenomenal! Too bad she's more remembered for the "Superman" movies than she is this. She was hot!! De Palma has always got top performances out of his actors, but Margot did deserve the Prize! I still think that it was her that he based one of John Lithgow's 'personalities' on in his 92 classic "Raising Cain". (There was a 'Margo', which in all honesty, was the scene stealing persona, so much so that De Palma ended the film with 'her'. Carter, Cain, and Josh were all secondary to Margo in terms of screen persona, and 'character'.)

Lisle Wilson, as a "modern-day Janet Leigh" (De Palma wanted to cast someone with 'star power' that the audience would just literally be utterly stunned when he gets murdered half way through the film, like Janet Leigh in "Psycho". However, Lisle Wilson is a really great actor, and I think that he was a terrific choice for the role.), De Palma regulars William Finley , Jennifer Salt, and Charles Durning, as well as Bernard Hughes, Dolph Sweet, and Mary Davenport (Jennifer Salt's real-life mother) round out the excellent cast in this exuberant masterpiece that will stun the senses!

Rich in irony, and deeply entrenched in dark humor (watch for an early scene where Danielle Breton wins a set of steak knives on a game show she is on, and Lisle Wilson's character wins a dinner for two at an African restaurant -establishing stereotypes and irony in one set piece), this is a film that ends in a psychological/sinister/demented/deranged/almost psychadelic/hypnotic/kaleidoscopic/bloody climax that will leave you utterly stunned, breathless, and scared witless! And, the final twist at the end, where a particular character is watching a particular item through binoculars until the cows (literally) come home is awesome and utterly hilarious, but also very bone chilling all the same.

This is a very great mixture of genres, mainly horror and satire, and something that will stick in the recesses of your mind and stay there for days and days to come, and haunt you on a very deep scale. As one reviewer on here put it, this isn't De Palma's first film, but in many ways, it is the first 'Brian De Palma film'. Easily in the same league as "Psycho", "Halloween", "Suspiria", "Rosemary's Baby", "Repulsion", and referencing such greats as "Rope", "Rear Window", "Psycho", and "The Cabinet Of Dr. Caligari", this is a very timeless classic masterpiece that will rival anything in its genre that you've ever seen! And, why Margot Kidder didn't have every award there is thrown at her for her performance is a crime, for she is show stopping in this.

The awesome score was done by the great Bernard Herrmann, who De Palma got to come out of retirement to do, and who went on to score De Palma's "Obsession". And, De Palma originally wanted to get bigger name stars for the roles of Grace and Philip: He wanted to get Marlo Thomas to play Grace, and Sydney Poitner to play Philip, but due to budget constraints, and/or other reasons, that never came to fruition, which in my opinion is a good thing, because what may have appeared as a good idea on paper, I don't think would have worked as well on screen. Jennifer Salt (who had been in De Palma's "The Wedding Party" and "Hi, Mom!") was born for this role, and Lisle Wilson gave a very topnotch performance as the 'male Janet Leigh'.

Oh, there is a remake of this out there in DVD Land...AVOID it!!!
This is the ONLY version of "Sisters" you'll ever want and/or need to see! It is a terrific mindf**k (please pardon language) psychological twisted journey into the mind that will just blow your head off!
Thank you. :>)