It doesn't get any better than this.  His voice and stage presence are AMAZING.  This is an extemely polished show, not like the normal tour shows.  It has even less action than some of his 73-74 shows.  But I believe this was the way Elvis thought it should done since it was viewed by 1-1.5 BILLION people.  Huge variety of songs, the selections prove that there isn't ANYTHING he can't sing better than ANYBODY at ANYTIME.  What a lot of people don't notice is.......Elvis will literally be seen in every civilized country on the earth and he wears a red, white and blue eagle on his 'outfit/suit'.  His song choice is like a tribute to not only himself, but other popular artists like the Beatles, Hank Williams, Chuck Berry, Frank Sinatra, etc... And of course, near the end of the show, he performs American Trilogy.  It doesn't get more American that that.  After 'Trilogy', and before he ends the show with 'Can't help falling in Love', he does one more Elvis oldie to leave you wanting more.  In this case, it was 'Big Hunk of Love'.  What a great show, different than all the rest and should be viewed realizing that.  Was it the best show Elvis ever did?  No way!  Is it the only show we can see from start to finish on DVD?  Yes, and twice, the rehersal and the production show.  Are both of them awesome shows?  Anything Elvis did at this time and prior to this time were awesome!  He could sing 'Mary had a little Lamb' and it would be awesome.

What's the best reason to buy this DVD?  The close ups, song selections, and that voice.  I guarantee you will hear familar songs like no one will EVER sing them again.  You'll be asking yourself 'How is it possible for him to have that much talent?'  His voice is that good and powerful. And if you know anything about Elvis, you'll see that he had something on his mind.  I'll guess it was Priscilla, they were officially divorced within the year.  Also, this show wil prove to be one of the last times you ever see Elvis as a lean machine.

Watch this show then turn to MTV or turn the radio on and try and tell yourself Elvis wasn't especially talented.  If you can say that, you are musically deaf.  Why else do they keep selling the same Elvis items with different wrappers over and over and over again?  But this one is special and a must have!