For a movie made in 1981, this one still packs a whollop! For anyone not familiar with this little gem, this one is not for the faint of heart. In this day of SAW and HOSTEL, this movie still has the ability to scare the crap out of you! It isn't overly bloody or violent, but what it lacks in substance, it more than makes up
 for it with it's suspenseful crawl through the ghostly heart of a woman's revenge. Based on the novel of the same name, four old men (Melvyn Douglas, John Houseman, Fred Astaire,and Douglas Fairbanks Jr. in their last starring roles) spend their evenings in a New England town swapping ghost stories. Soon they start dropping like flies, starting with one of the Mayor's (Douglas Fairbanks Jr.) twin sons, played to the hilt by Craig Wasson in a dual role (beware...there is frontal nudity and it is shockingly displayed). Not long after the mayor falls to his death and soon, the doctor (Melvyn Douglas)is visited by a strange woman in black and dies of a heart attack. The remaining members of the group are beside themselves and Craig Wasson soon reveals his connection to a strange young woman with whom he had a torrid and short lived affair. Alice Krige is just lovely here and at her horrifying best as the object of Craig Wasson's desire and his ill-fated brother's as well. Not long after his twin brother's shocking death, he tells his father's friends what he knows about "Alma" who is later revealed as Eva, the woman whom the old men fancied years before. Eva's sad story is told in flashbacks and what eventually happened to her is one of the most horrifying and heartbreaking aspects of the movie. It doesn't take long for the surviving members (Fred Astaire and John Houseman) to make the connection and figure out they're all in danger. But ghosts have a way of exacting revenge, especially a woman scorned so it doesn't take a genius to figure out what's happening. I have to say this is one of the more enjoyable and certainly one of the best horror movies from the 80s. It's certainly worth a look on a dark and stormy night. But I do take issue with the excessive nudity. It isn't necessary in a movie like this. Alice Krige for all her talent must have felt it was essential for her career to bare her breasts. If that's true, then that's a sad commentary on the world today. Craig Wasson certainly isn't ashamed of his body given the amount of flesh he exposed in this film and in several others. Again, not necessary. There is a sex scene that is quite shocking for all its violence and once you understand Eva's history, I guess it was her way of exacting her revenge. Still it is shocking and even disturbing. It will keep you up nights to be sure. A must for any horror fan.