The best thing about this movie is how it makes a role model out of Nancy Drew, portraying her as smart, refined, polite, having a heart to help people, confident in her convictions and not influenced by peer pressure.  This is in comparison to the mean-spirited, superficial, clothes-obsessed Paris Hilton-wannabes in the school she temporarily attends after leaving River Heights for a short stay in L.A.  As a whole, the movie is clean, entertaining, even featuring a wholesome relationship between Nancy and beau Ned Nickerson, who is also shown as anything but caught up in the shallowness displayed by Nancy's classmates.

My disappointment:  I think the movie would have been perfect if it was a straight Nancy Drew mystery story.  The Mean Girls/Brady Bunch Movie fish-out-of-the-water approach just distracts and relegates this movie to just another tween flick, versus something that could have been greater.  I read somewhere that something similar was planned for "The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" movie, with the four Pevensie children transported to L.A. and craving cheeseburgers instead of Turkish Delight.  Thank goodness, sanity prevailed, and the producers of the movie decided to be faithful to C.S. Lewis' book.  What we have now is a high-grossing Narnia movie that's well-crafted, timeless and appealing to all generations--something that can be watched over and over.

In Warner Brothers' attempts to appeal to a narrow market--tween children who are not avid Nancy Drew readers and who can only be attracted to movies with a modern twist--they miss out on reaching a wider audience: Nancy Drew fans of all ages and generations.  Contrary to the movie's premise, Nancy Drew is not a relic of the past--in fact, the strengths of her character and the thrills of her adventures are universal and applicable to all times and locales.  While many enjoy the movie now, I believe many, many more would have if the producers only had more faith in Nancy Drew's timeless appeal.

SPOILER TO FOLLOW:  One of the unfortunate things about this movie is that the mystery Nancy attempts to unravel involves a subject that's inappropriate for young viewers--unwed mothers.  Parents may want to talk to their children about the facts of life after watching this with them.