Fringe is the show that rocks the cradle of televisions Twilight into the mysterious.  Most of my own experiences with theoretical science is as much along the fringe as was most people, I knew, who knew of Einstein Theory of Relativity.  Most people haven't had a page of information from any of Great Thinkers on the level since most text from geniuses is complex and only bookish science minded students of the arts and sciences read the entire text of people like Plato.  Works of Jules Verne are even edited for the same reasons.  Some people still don't even know about some scientific reasoning unless it was from a movie.
The first movie I actually saw in the local theater I would call a Sci-Fi movie was, "Forbidden Planet."  I was dropped off, by myself.
My parent's, sister's and brother's did not see it.  After I did see it all my talk about it got that, "We don't know what you're talking about." look.  I still wanted a pal like Robby the Robot.
FRINGE, the television show, is a show of a quality which barters with scientific studies.  The kind of studies I have had a little bit more of since I began studying Ancient Philosopher's.  Most people I talked to don't realize that Atlantis was written about, FOR REAL, centuries ago.
I found a collection of books at the library which has over 60 books that carry on the fascinating words of thought which extends from as far back as Aristotles' teachers time and up to modern times.
(I understand why more people don't watch, FRINGE.
FRINGE could go on for 30 centuries using the addition of thoughts from all the great philosopher's.  Their works could be converted into fascinating probabilities which is what FRINGE is all about.  I don't know who started the works of, "The Great Conversation" The Substance of a Liberal Education. By Robert M. Huthchins  I found the complete set from around 1994 set 1- 54. "Homer, Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, Plato and on to the 54th book on FREUD.  All at the local library.  I have seen the latest collection that is provided by Britannica called, "The Great Conversation"  a. k. a. "Great Books of the Western World" and more books added on the set; a good number more.  All of whom we are more familiar in the 20th centuries bunch of modern philosophers.
Their knowledge is about that which is on the Fringe of Society. FRINGE intrigues some people all of the time and others only part of the time... <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003L77G2Y">Fringe: The Complete Third Season</a>