I love this movie. It is kitschy, it is juvenile, it is everything as bad as the critics say it is, but hey, this isn't Bergman or Antonioni, or Fellini. If you want edification, look elsewhere. This movie has no pretensions, it is just good clean fun, and above all it is happy. Even the director himself, in his accompanying commentary, is befuddled by it's eventual success and he attributes it to it's happy storyline which seems so rare in our sad time. With all its adolescent antics and blatant sexual innuendo, it still retains a surprisingly innocent feel to it. It's a pleasure to watch it again after more than 20 years.

Thank goodness this movie was released by Anchor Bay and not some cheap fly-by-night company. The film is transfered in it's original widescreen aspect ratio of 1.85:1 (enhanced for widescreen TV). I must admit that my heart sank when the opening credits rolled and the picture came out extremely dark, grainy and grimy. But that was apparently deliberate and the picture becomes immaculately clean as the camera draws away from the TV screen showing the stock footage of the opening pirate attack. I doubt if anyone has seen this movie in this pristine a condition since it was first released. The colors are rich, lush and brilliant with well rendered blacks and pure whites. In some scenes the brilliant reds and greens are so vibrant they look like they originated from old 3-strip technicolor reels. Picture detail is well nigh perfect, so much so that the tackiness of the cheap primitive matte shots stand out all the more.

The original dual channel stereo has also been remastered to 5.1 surround but I personally prefer the old stereo image. The new 5.1 sounds slightly artificial.

Kristy McNichol is adorable. It's sad to learn that this was her last major film. She burnt out far too soon.

Aside from the director's commentary and an old TV trailer, there are no other extras. But the beautiful transfer of this cult classic is alone worthy of the price.