When i first watched this, I was a bit hesitant. After all, it's the Rock. Most people will agree, he's not what you call an in-stellar actor, but he did do a credible job in this movie.

Karl Urban was, as usual, gripping, and fit the role of Reaper to a tee. All in all, this was a good (but not great) sci-fi movie.

Now for the low points:

1. Complete corruption of the Doom plot. Hollywood, for some reason, has this inherant fear when making video game movies of sticking to the game plots. Not sure why really, but there it is. The Doom game actually did have a good plot as far as first person shooters go. Essentially, elite Marine, going to Mars to investigate strange reports of violence and sabotage occuring within the research division of the Uldelay base. Same as the movie. Here's where they went wrong. Instead of further abusing the population with yet another genetics gone bad plot, stick to the original. The scientists discovered a gateway and upon opening aforementioned gateway, opened a path straight to Hell. That's the plot of the game. If it ain't broke, don't fix it.

2. Mentioned above but enough of a pain to mention again: The Genetics Gone Wrong, rinse and repeat plot. Seen this so many times it's just annoying.

3. At times the specidal effects are a bit, well, meh. But i'm not going to pound on them too much for this one.

4. Should have stuck with the game more and shown all the different monsters from it. Instead of just having Imps that smack people, have them throw their balls of condensced plasma. Have the corrupted squads of Marines running around trying to blow away the good guys. Have all the crazy freaky things that made the game almost cause you to wet your pants. Nice going hollywood.

High points:

1. Good action. The action is nicely done for the most part and keeps you entertained. I recommend the unedited version over the main one. More violence in it.

2. Diverse characters. each character has their own little story to go along with them. You have of course Reaper, who i think of as the primary character in this movie, over the Rock; who has some serious issues with the scientist he's forced to bring along.

3. Gory. I love gore, i love blood in movies. This one has lots of it. Nothing like the Hellraiser Series gore, but enough to make your eyes glow.

4. **PLOT SPOILER** The Rock dies. That made it a good movie right there.