Martin Scorcese, one of the most talented directors of his generation, delivered what many believe to be the finest gangster movie of all time.  Good Fellas, produced by Irwin Winkler, grossed $48 million and followed  the troubled life of Henry Hill (Ray Liotta) from the 1950s to the 1980s.  As an Irish-Italian American affected by the rough immigrant-gangster  society in which he is raised, Hill begins to favor the celebrity lifestyle  lived by the well-respected and powerful gangsters.  The film, which took  place in New York City, won numerous Academy Award nominations.  Joe Pesci,  who played the enraged Tommy Devito, walked away with the award for best  supporting actor.  Robert DeNiro added another astonishing performance to  his marvelous acting career by playing the respected, but hostile Jimmy  Conway.  Based on Nicholas Pileggi's book Wiseguy, Scorcese's film  depicts the extremely dangerous, yet materialistically rewarding lifestyle  of gangsters.  He uses Hill to portray the typical, New York kid, born to  hard-working immigrant parents and demonstrates Hill as someone who simply  dreams to live the life of a wealthy, important, and well-respected  individual.  Scorcese also introduces the viewers to the deranged DeVito,  whose idea of being a gangster is more extreme than that of Hill's, as he  uses his power to become a sick, murdering maniac.  The director carries  out his agenda by portraying the somewhat chaste Hill and the psychopath  DeVito as close friends who eventually lose all that they had worked for.  Scorcese chose to punish Hill by taking away all of his materialistic  gains, which Hill has dishonestly obtained, and to smite DeVito in the  similar vengeful manner that DeVito had become accustomed to inflicting on  others.  Scorcese clearly depicts the growing wave of immigration as  he follows the lifestyles of the mighty and powerful Mafia crew in NYC.  The film describes the importance of such power in the gangsters'  lifestyles.  They receive the utmost respect from everybody, including the  politicians and wealthy business owners, and most disturbingly, destroy  anyone in their path.  The objective of gaining wealth, too, appealed to  many gangsters, as they believed that it was more rewarding to acquire  riches through stealing than through working the ordinary jobs available in  NYC.  Ethnicity played a vital role in the movie as well, as the film  represents the major differences between the different immigration groups.  The importance of being a true Italian, for example, was vital when it came  to the rules of "being made," a promotion within the Mafia world.  Furthermore, Karen Hill (Loraine Bracco) and her Jewish friend proclaimed  their discomfort of dating both DeVito and Hill because both gangsters came  from non-Jewish origins.  The film, which many believe to be the  finest mob movie ever, feeds the viewer with adequate information about the  lives of gangsters. Good Fellas is surely disturbing at times, as the  violence quotient runs high; however, because the film is based on reality,  the viewer will walk away with a new perspective on gangsters and mafiosi  lifestyles.  The film also teaches the audience about the flow of  immigration and the tremendous impact it had on America then and even now.  Good Fellas displays the inability of the Italians to Americanize and,  instead,6 exhibits the affect that the Italians had over the American  society.  The viewers can detect that by bringing together the different  traditions and values, the immigrants shaped what we call the United States  today.  The film in all aspects is notably unequivocal and will continue to  progress in fame.