Not an adaption of "Dracula" so much a quasi-remake of "Nosferatu," the film rises out the long gliding shadow of the original thanks to the genius tag team of Kinski and Herzog, who are ambitious enough to actually re-interpret the material instead of simply re-creating it.  In one of his all time top five performances, Klaus Kinski injects an incredible amount of depth into the Dracula character.  He's of course menacing, but he's also sympathetic, pathetic, wise, weary, and at times even clownish.  He approaches the role with the gloomy boredom and longing of a creature that has endured too many centuries alone in his crumbling castle.

In contrast to say the more charismatic Draculas we've seen over the past century, Nosferatu is quiet and meek in nature as he uses the minimal ghoul make up to not only provoke creepy unease but also vague sympathy. When he first meets Lucy, his slight shy mannerisms give the impression that he's shameful of his hideous appearance.  In contrast, there is the terrifying scene when Jonathan cuts his finger; resulting in the lurching Dracula transforming into a speedy, towering, blood thirsty predator(all thanks to Kinski's seemingly unnatural movements.)  As said, he also uses his appearance for tasteful comedy as well, especially during the playful scene where he's tip toeing around like a cartoon character as he plants his caskets around the town under the cover of darkness.

This isn't just the Kinski show however as Herzorg's incredible eye does more than hold up his end of the deal.  The natural locations of  the ruined castle, the mountains, the beach....etc. are all effectively haunting and he makes certain to linger on them just long enough for the viewer to burn them into their memory.  The shots of dusk skyline are both beautifully grand and imposingly claustrophobic.  Despite this being a rare venture into horror, Herzorg certainly understands how to create overwhelming apocalyptic doom and dread with startling images of gathering rats, gradually deserting streets, and increasing mass funerals.  It's a very visual film with more moody atmospheric droning than dialogue and other more straightforward means of storytelling.  It's very dream like, though it's one very strange and creepy dream to be sure. As the protagonist Lucy, Isabelle Adjani's gothic beauty serves the film well but she's also excellent at portraying the innocence and strength of the tragic character.  Bruno Ganz's Jonathan plays the role mostly for camp which is perhaps one of the film's few missteps.