While I normally give every movie I see a chance, regardless of how the trailer makes it look, something about the previews for The Dictator had me wanting to not see it at all. Sacha Baron Cohen's earlier work like Da Ali G Show and Borat were great, and Bruno was alright for what it was, but it seemed like with The Dictator, he wasn't making any progress with his comedy. More Middle Eastern jokes, more "offensive" jokes that are boring most of the time, why not try something different? The movie had this self-aware feeling like they were writing jokes with a "hey, isn't this funny?!" mentality instead of going for more genuine humor. I just plain didn't like this movie, and it hurts to say that since I know Cohen can do so much more given the right material and setup. When it comes down to it, if you've seen his other movies and Da Ali G Show, then you've seen most of what's here. If you haven't...I suggest watching those instead. The Dictator will most likely only appeal to people who still get shocked at politically incorrect humor.

Aladeen is the dictator of the [fictional] country of Wadiya, ruling over it with an iron fist. Whatever he wants, he gets. Be it a nuclear bomb that's pointy instead of round, winning a race against professional runners, or changing a couple of words to his own name. He has a tendency to have people executed whenever they do something that bugs him even in the tiniest bit, and as such, no one likes him. Aladeen travels to America to talk with the United Nations, but he's kidnapped and shaved soon after his arrival. They replace the dictator with a lookalike, despite the man being mentally challenged, and plan on having him sign a document that would bring democracy to Wadiya, opening the country's oil fields up for business. Homeless and without any friends, Aladeen befriends (for lack of better word) Zoey, an activist who works at one of those all-natural shops that activists love to go to so much. It just so happens that her store is catering the hotel that Aladeen's replacement is staying at. This won't be pretty.

I'll get the things I liked about the movie out of the way first. Jason Mantzoukas, who plays Nadal, former chief of Wadiya's nuclear weapons program, provided most of the laughs for me. Whenever he'd get irritated at Aladeen's obliviousness to logic and basic instructions, it was funny. Unfortunately there's a good amount of time that goes on without the guy after he's introduced, but when he comes back, it's good. The other main thing is a speech that Aladeen gives towards the end of the movie. I was just about to write it off as a waste of time until that moment. Aladeen talks about many things that are wrong with America, and you can't help but go "...yeah, he's right" during this segment. The speech isn't delivered with a very serious tone, yet everything he says is true. There's also the infamous helicopter scene from the trailer, and it still made me laugh when it came up.

...that does it for things I liked.

Everything else about the movie is a flop. Jokes go on forever and don't know when to end, especially those with Bobby Lee, whose character is so forced into the movie that everything he does seems out of place. Some scenes are so drawn out that I was wondering if the movie was trying to be taken seriously all of a sudden because the attempts at comedy were suddenly gone. Aladeen just plain isn't an interesting character either, and comes off as Borat with authority more than anything else. It got old whenever he'd be talking about something sexual, and replace words for organs or actions with those in his language. The editing in The Dictator is pretty awful too, and it's clear that a lot of scenes were cut from the movie. You can see for yourself if you watch the trailer before or after watching the movie.  As for the politically incorrect-ness of the comedy here, none of it offended me in the way it might offend most people. No, what offended me was how hard they were trying to get a shock out of the viewer. Not since Carlos Mencia's show, Mind of Mencia, have I seen such a sad, forced attempt at surprising audiences with what was being said. Didn't any of the writers or anyone else have the guts to step forward and say something like 'hey guys, maybe we should stop with all this and write something more original'? I've seen the movie twice now, with the most recent viewing being 4 days ago, and I barely remember any of the jokes. How can the guy behind the genius Da Ali G Show be so desperate for a reaction now?

The Dictator will be one of those movies that will fade from my memory in a couple of months. It's not the worst movie I've seen all year, just the most disappointing. This was a big missed opportunity. I'm really hoping that Cohen can come back with something great in the next year or two.