"Say what you like, but THE TRIAL is the best film I ever made!"  So says Orson Welles of his 1962, underrated masterpiece THE TRIAL, taken from Franz Kafka's legendary novel of the same name, the story concerns Josef K, (Anthony Perkins in a world class performance) a bank clerk arrested and put on trial for an unspecified crime.  The liquid tracking shots and receding perspectives familiar from TOUCH OF EVIL are refined here and more at home with the narrative of THE TRIAL.  Welles' editing is also more distinctive and expressive, as K's world begins to reel faster and faster out of control, the editing itself transforms from the long takes in the beginning to more frenzic cutting giving certain scenes an oddly affecting flow.  The exteriors are notably different from scene to scene, some Italian, some Yugoslavian, some Parisian, but all effective and creepily disorienting.  The casting is also a plus:  Romy Schneider as a seducing nurse who jumps on Josef t! he first chance she gets, Jeanne Moreau as a world-weary nighclub stripper with whom Josef is smitten, Orson himself as The Advocate, Akim Tamiroff as his client/slave, and Perkins, in a bit of casting that many people didn't understand, is truly a marvel and a revelation.  With every facial expression and movement of his body he paints a portrait of man who on the surface strikes a cutting, heroic stance, but in private is really like all other people in his impatience with uncomfortable circumstances.  He avoids the tempting opportunity to provide sympathy to K, as his plight grows more chaotic, his demeanor becomes more testy, and that's as it should be.  Critics apparently wanted a nullingly straight rendition from the novel, but Welles, Perkins and the rest of the crew thankfully didn't oblige them.  They find the perfect balance between a daring cinematic adaptation without sacrificing the spirit of the novel.  While it's not his best, this is better than alot of Welles'!  films, .  1. The Magnificent Ambersons 2. Falstaff 3. The ! Trial
Samir Roy  END