"High and Low," Kurosawa's 1963 crime film begins in the peaceful mansion of Gondo (Mifune), who is involved in shoe production. Kurosawa immediately introduces this character to us, showing how he has a passion for his work, and how his work is part of his life.  He will not let himself be bought out by the new generation of businessmen who are in it just to make money. Gondo makes it very clear that the shoes they are making are junk and are not delicately handled like they should be.  Gondo is against these businessmen and refuses to work with them.
  Gondo wants to break free and work on his own branch out of the shoe company. He reveals to his family and assistant, Kawanishi, that he is ready to do so with 30 million yen, money he has been saving up for years.  Things change, however, when he receives a phone call that his son has been captured.  Gondo will do whatever it takes to get his son back.  However, he finds out that the kidnapper has taken the wrong child; the child is actually the son of a close friend who was with Gondo and his wife at the time.  Gondo is now in a dilemma.
  What follows is the police investigation as we meet the chief inspector (Nakadai, a Kurosawa regular) and the other investigators.  Kurosawa makes this film a deep interesting character study right from the start, as we begin to understand the kind of person Gondo is.  Gondo's dilemma is vividly shown and Mifune does a great job helping us understand his plight along with Kurosawa's great script.
  The second half is mainly police investigation but is so fascinating and compellling in the style by which Kurosawa strucutres it.  He uses flashbacks, wipe dissolves, lighting, closeups, and music all to his advantage.  Kurosawa once again proves that he as great an artist as he is a storyteller, and maybe, the finest storyteller in film.  The film's detailed locations are well balanced, from Gondo's peaceful and wealthy mansion perched up on a hill, to the hot and humid investigation room, to the streets of Tokyo, and to the crack houses in the urban slums. Kurosawa makes use of all the actors effectively, particularly Mifune and Nakadai.  The film is a journey through crime, tension, reality, and Kurosawa leads us every step of the way to a powerful climax.