Mysteries, Inc. has just donated all of the costumes from captured villains to a museum opening in their honor.  As the most famous (and only?) celebrities of Coolsville, the town is thrilled to have the crew living in their midst.  Everyone who is anyone shows up for the museum's grand opening, only to be stunned when some of the costumes suddenly come to life becoming real monsters instead of just costumes created by villains!  When an amibitious reporter (Alicia Silverstone) covering the event makes Mysteries, Inc. look like a laughingstock, Scooby and the gang know that they need to recover those costumes and clear their name!

Velma (Linda Cardellini) knows that the man who created the original pterodactyl monster is certainly capable of creating real monsters out of costumes, but he died years ago so she starts looking at other alternatives.  She also has to worry about that cute museum curator, Patrick (Seth Green), whom she really likes, but has no idea what to with.  Fred (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) is preoccupied with his mistake at the museum opening when he spoke to that annoying reporter, who made him look like a fool.  Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar) is having doubts about her place in Mysteries, Inc. - Velma is the smart one, Fred is the leader and Scooby and Shaggy are just there, what is her role?  Shaggy (Matthew Lilliard) and Scooby are having doubts of their own.  It seems like the crew always manages to solve the mystery on their own, with Shaggy and Scooby just kind of stumbling into the monster at the end by accident.  With all of the gang involved in their own problems, will they ever be able to pull it together to solve the mystery?

Scooby Doo 2 was a decent film.  I am a big Scooby Doo fan so I enjoyed seeing the classic monsters come to life from the cartoons like the Black Knight Ghost, the Miner 49er, the 10,000 Volt Ghost and the Tar Monster, which the special effects crew on the film did a great job with.  I would also say that all of the special effects in general were better in this film than the first and they did have some neat sets to work with, too.  My biggest complaint with the movie is still the cast that they chose to play the 4 human characters - Freddie Prinze, Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, Matthew Lillard, and Linda Cardellini.  They are just okay, but they just don't recreate the classic characters for me so I am always disappointed.  The jokes were still pretty crude and the story line was very simple so I didn't particularly enjoy those parts, but my nephews, who are 8, 6, and 4 were laughing their heads off.  The movie is definitely not as scary as the first one (which gave my nephews nightmares), but I still like that one better.  We all enjoyed the special features together where you can see how they created Scooby and how he was able to do his disco dance sequence (they even teach you some of his moves!), as well as many other commentaries and deleted scenes.  It was a fun rental to get, but I will never watch it again.