The  Film: The Evil Dead
Year Made: 1981

The Package: 5 Stars. This review is for The Evil Dead Ultimate Edition released in 2007 from Anchor Bay. I received this in the mail and opened the box it was shipped in. I took out the box and after waiting and waiting since I had this on pre order back in November. WOW, What I now was holding in my hands was the ultimate edition of one of my all time favorite horror films ever! I opened it up slowly and was so happy with what I was feasting my eyes on.  The box is very well made and the box graphics are so sweet! Inside you will find 3 discs.  Each one has some superb graphics on the discs themselves.  They are easy to pop out from the holder, and when put back in they hold in place very well.  You also get a poster inside that you can hang on your wall, OR if your a purist like myself, you can just leave it in the box to stay nice and in original condition as well.  On one disc you get a widescreen version of the film.  On the second disc you can watch the full frame version.  On the third disc there is lots of sweet extras that is sure to please any Evil Dead fan!

Spook Meter:  5 Stars.  This film is creepy! The way it was shot, the forest, the cabin, the lighting, the sounds of the demons! It's freaky and just amazing. This is a absolute classic horror film that never fails to make my mouth drop open in awe every time I watch this!  Ladies, I think you all rock, but Lynda is my favorite demon.  That laugh of hers is just freaky as hell. LOL.  All and all I would say there is a handful of horror films that you watch and they are not only scary but you watch them and afterwards you think.  It just could not have been better made then this. The Evil Dead IS one of those films. Yes, it is really that exciting to watch.

Gore/Violence Meter: 5 Stars. There is tons of flying blood/goo and all sorts of parts. If you love gore, you will love this.  The very first time I watched this, I was in total aww at that one body could hold that much blood. The gore really works well here.  Some films, less gore is better, in this case I loved to see the blood fly and it does. Even though there is tons of gore here, this is a fun film to watch and it won't leave you walking away feeling emotionally drained like some other horror films can do.  Not saying that's a bad thing from other films, but what I'm saying is, there is tons of gore here but it's truly fun to watch and not in a intense depressive way at all.

Profanity Meter:  3 Strikes. There is some language here and there.  Gods name is used which I never like to hear in any film.  Other then that, there is not a lot of swearing.

Sexual Meter:  2 Strikes. Nothing really sexual as far as nude scenes in this.  However, I must point out that there is a "famous" scene where a woman is suggestively  sexually assaulted by tree branches in the woods that come to life.  Nothing to graphic is actually shown, but you do have a clear idea what happened.  I point this out to any new viewer to this film just to let you know what may or may not offend you.

Final Thoughts: I first wanted to give a review of this gem of a horror film just in case someone new stumbled across The Evil Dead (Ultimate Edition) and never seen this film at all before.  With  that said, I just want to say that I'm happy that Anchor Bay has come out with this edition.  I know not everyone is happy with this film being Re-released time and time again.  I am happy though as to me this is not only one of the greatest horror films in history but also a film that I just love to collect on period. If they keep releasing these, I will keep buying.

Thank you for reading and have a Merry Christmas! 2007