Coming off the high of having recently purchased and watched the entire "On the Road to..." series, I thought I would delve deeper into Bob Hope, who, as a kid, I only new as an elderly, moderately funny and fairly likable guy from his TV Christmas specials and the Tonight Show.  The "On the Road to..." series has taken a place of honor on my classic comedy shelf along with WC Fields, the Marx Bros, Chaplin, Keaton, Python, etc..  "The Ghost Breakers", however, has, in my quite extensive DVD collection, been relegated to a lower shelf of relative disappointments.  The canned plot and cardboard characters of "The Ghost Breakers" can only be described as Scooby Doo-ish, and while great comedy can often transcend such shortcomings as a threadbare and formulaic plot, there is little to transcend this film's deep structural weaknesses and general lack of inspiration.  Although there are a few laughs and grins, a good half of Hope's gags fall dead flat. There is also, more than the weak schtick,  something unlikable that I hadn't much seen before in Hope's general demeanor that leaks slowly but noxiously and pervasively through Hope's character in the film--that of the smug, spoon-fed frat boy who is just not as cute or funny or as special as he seems to think he is.  And the racial stereotypes and race gags, often easy to overlook or take in stride in the historical and artistic context of films from this time period, seem to also suffer from the same sort of smug arrogance that, overall, pervades and undermines Hope's presence in this film.  At the end, I was rather surprised in feeling that I just didn't find Bob Hope especially funny nor such a likeable guy as I had in the "Road" pictures, so much so that I almost wish I hadn't seen this picture.

Similarly, I am a great fan of Paulette Goddard, due largely to her work in her then husband Charlie Chaplin's brilliant pictures, so much so that I was a bit saddened and disappointed to see her talents so underutilized and wasted in this generally forgettable, formulaic, if somewhat higher budgeted B-movie.

It's true that Bob Hope is among that atypical, minority of Republicans in the arts who, like Bing Crosby, Gary Cooper, John Wayne, and Schwarzeneggar one, no matter there politics, must just forgive and forget. Their talent and strength of character (though often nurtured and showcased by die hard Hollywood liberals) generally transcend politics; but the Bob Hope of this film comes across as a slightly reptilian, not as clever as he thinks he is elitist Republican, too much so to really enjoy or recommend.

While I still, though slightly uncomfortably, love Bob Hope based on his other work, I would recommend that, for most people,  except perhaps for the most die hard Hope fans, that this is a film better left forgotten.