"Lawrence of Arabia" is universally acknowledged as one of the greatest biographies in film history - a brilliantly nuanced and insightful portrait of one of the 20th century's most compelling and enigmatic figures. However, as a recent viewing reminded me, it is also one of the greatest war films. The assault on Aqaba, for example, is staged with a narrative clarity and visceral impact that must have been an inspiration to Michael Mann when choreographing the instantly-classic bank robbery gunfight in "Heat". Of course, it is also one of the great spectacle films - providing sights as epic and stirring as any found in "Lord of the Rings", with the added impact of being absolutely real and (with sad certainty) of a kind never to be seen again. Yet amazingly, it is also one of the greatest love stories.  Since it is notoriously a film with no women in speaking roles, a word of explanation is in order.

My wife, despite having otherwise fine taste in films, has always had what I can only assume is a gender-based blind spot for this one. "A boy movie," she shrugs dismissively. And in fairness, the film does celebrate the virtues of courage and fortitude from a purely masculine point of view. [Though these virtues are hardly  unique to men - as any woman who has given childbirth can tell you.] But what the missus misses is the genuinely romantic aspect of hero worship. In a now-legendary intro shot as swoon-worthy as anything in "Dr. Zhivago", Sherif Ali rides out of the sun to have his bloody "meet cute" with Lawrence at the drinking well where they verbally spar like Beatrice and Benedick. Later, Ali throws a fussy sulk at Lawrence's "impossibleness" that is worthy of Bette Davis. But when Lawrence heroically brings Gasim out of the Nefud, Ali can finally give up his proud heart. He becomes a desert wife of sorts - upgrading Lawrence's wardrobe, nagging him to eat properly, tending to his wounds. As the character who best understands his greatness, it is Ali who must suffer the deepest heartbreak over Lawrence's losing struggle against the nihilism of the desert and the futility of human endeavor. [Just one quote, to illustrate the start-to-finish brilliance of Robert Bolt's and Michael Wilson's dialogue: "If I fear him, who love him, how must he fear himself, who hates himself?"] Their final parting - set to the silent music of a dream too beautiful to last -  is as sad and poignant as anything in chick flicks like "Brief Encounter" or "The Way We Were". And if you're too homophobic to appreciate this for what it is - a love story - so much the sadder for you.

That losing struggle is what makes "Lawrence of Arabia" - in addition to all its other splendors - also one of the greatest philosophical dramas. Lawrence is a tragic hero in the mold of (and of comparable stature to) the greatest of them all - Hamlet. Like his Danish predecessor, Lawrence is forced to articulate his greatness in a world of politics and treachery that is unworthy of him - leaving him torn between contemplation and action - the conflict impulsively expressing itself as clownish displays of foppish eloquence. Like the Prince, Lawrence finds no triumph in the achievement of his quest - only the laying bare of an all-too-human bloodthirstiness that spells the doom of all his (and our?) nobler hopes. As he struggles against giving the order for a My Lai-esque massacre of an unarmed Turkish convoy, Lawrence's face [animated by the incomparable acting of Peter O'Toole] all but says: "Now could I drink hot blood! and do such bitter business, as the day would quake to look on..."

As you can probably tell by now, this film is an epic in many ways other than running time and number of extras. If you have never seen it projected in 70mm on a Ziegfeld-sized screen, you will only experience its greatness in translation. However, experience it you should. And once you do, people will be able to say of you - as is said of Lawrence at the end - "There is only the desert for you now."