At the time of submitting this comment, there are 70 other reviews for this film. They have mostly been enthusiastic, but they're virtually all the same. They run through the synopsis, praise the acting, praise Clint, and call it a great movie, but no one has attempted to deal with the meaning of the film, or I should say the meta-meaning. 
Some have rightly pointed out that it is a film about the consequences of vigilantism, a film about revenge and (as Clint himself has said) how "evil begets evil". But the ending has confused, even annoyed many people. Some have expressed concern that the message seems to be that it's OK to commit murder as long as you do it in the name of your family. They wonder what Eastwood and Helgeland were thinking to devise such a "hateful and evil" message. But this is a most important and searching question, for it focuses on the crux of the film. 
In THE GODFATHER films, the Corleone family were a law unto themselves, the ultimate vigilante's. Any action was justifiable if it was in the interest of "the family", a creed most would rightly recognise as hateful and evil. In MYSTIC RIVER, we watch a vigilante story play itself out, culminating in a patriotic street parade intercut with what seems to be a justification for vigilantism. This is not mere irony. Eastwood portrays a community in which vigilantism has a place, a community not so different from those in Western sagas where lawless frontiers were tamed by men who spoke with the barrel of gun. 
Eastwood confronted his part in the portrayal of the West in UNFORGIVEN, and in MYSTIC RIVER he asks us to do the same, to face our own "hearts of darkness". The film ends with the camera (the viewer) plunging into the dark and murky Mystic River, suggesting that we too could plunge headlong into dark irreconcilable waters.
The film could be read as a metaphor warning against ideas and actions that lead us into political vigilantism. It's no coincidence that some of the characters are mute. Muteness is part of the subtext of the film, referring to having no voice or refusing to use the one we have. Nor is it coincidental that in the final few minutes we observe mute communication (through eye contact and hand gestures) between characters who seem to be expressing a mute acquiescence. 
Is it a great film? Well, despite the importance (and potency) of the message, I thought the film was rather patchy - at times very good, at other times risible. Some of the dialogue was particularly grim. Nevertheless, it deserves serious attention for its disturbingly important (and brave) subtext. Sadly, judging by many of the critical reviews I have read, very few seem to "get" the point of the film. That's just as disturbing as the message of the film itself.