There comes a time when you need to take a step back from art film analysis and reflect on whether or not you got your $7.00 bucks worth.  My friends and I spent a great deal of time on this question, along with  "Why in the hell did we stay for this whole movie?  I think the two  questions are related.
Ghost Dog is one of the worst films I have ever  paid money to see, period.  It is an art film gone very wrong. I tried to  justify shelling out the money to see this film in a first run theater.  But unlike some other reviewers, I lack the imagination to make up these  deep hidden meanings.
Ghost Dog kills with a gun and opens and starts  cars with some high tech device, he is no Samurai.  His training is the  book Hagekure: The book of the Samurai, which appears to have brainwashed  him.  The director stops the film to put up what seem like endless quotes  from this book, while Forest Whitaker reads them at a third grade tempo.  These were appropriate times for the audience to do a time check on their  wristwatch, or maybe make a cell call.  While some quotes appeared  philisophical, others mention putting on rouge when the Samarai wakes up to  keep him from looking pale.  How interesting.
Even worse were the  attempts to make the film break the 90 minute mark (it seemed MUCH longer).  On several occasions Forest would steal a car and drive slowly through the  city streets for the entire duration of a RZA track.  While perfect for  late night MTV, if they still played music videos, these scenes take the  film tempo from slow to comatose.  
The attempts to lighten the mood with  humor were bombs also.  The lack of communication between the haitian and  Ghost Dog basically interpreting each other was only funny once, yet it  goes on and on.  The italian gangster rapping along to Public enemy was  silly and well over the top, especially in the presense of the mob boss.  The only real laughs I got were seeing Forest twirl his gun like a sword  before holstering it after each kill.  I don't believe this was intended to  be funny.
The showdown between Ghost Dog and Louie was anti-climatic at  best.  Why didn't Ghost Dog disembowl himself like real Samarai do.  That  would have been much more entertaining.
I'm not sure why film critics  give so-called art films so much more room to be blatantly bad and stupid  than the big Hollywood productions. Other reviews appear to have bought  into this hook, line, and sinker
I suggest to movie buyers to purchase a  great hit-man-with-a-conscious film like The Professional, or le femme  nikita.  
---Scott Wilkerson