Well i have always liked comics, been reading them since i was 4, yep i learned reading with them :D, and of the few european comics that i liked The Phantom was the one i liked the most.
It was mysterious
It was funny
It had great action
and the pencils/inks were beautiful.

when i read that they were gonna do a adaptation and saw the production shots i thought they better not screw this.

and finally when i saw it in the theatres i was both swimming with joy and grinding my teeth with rage.

i was very happy with The Phantom, how the suit was handled (ok in some scenes the glue came off and the chin parts of the mask lifted from the face but they were minor glitches), how the Phantom moved and stood his ground. Zane definetely was a good fit for the role. he was athletic and had that sincere clean smile that Phantom gives under his mask to his friends and sharp, cold, frightening gaze to his enemies.

The sidekicks were great :D Devil and Hero :D both very nice examples of their scpecies :D

Zane in costume moved like The Phantom moved in the comics. The way he held his guns, the way he crossed hia arms etc etc
it was very good

those were the parts where i coulndt stop myself smile from joy. But there were a couple scenes points where i was so furious i coulndt help but grind my teeth :(

Of 60+ years of publications whoever saw a Walker's face in the comic. but in the movie we get to see in in 5th min :( why they had to go and show the face..a good actor should be able to do his acting without ever showing his face... Look at V for Vendetta. look at Darth Vader (ok they ruined it in return of the jedi too but nonethe less it is one of the most succesfull villian on screen without a face of the actor... ) shadows they could have used shadows to cover most of his face. and whatever happened the the hat and the sun-glasses..ditched in a sec :(

and what about the Skull-Cave...Hollywood could build entire planets, universes, giant buildings but all they came up with for Skull-Cave is white paint over a cave opening :(
come on guys... in the comics no one would be able to wander in to the cave because they couldnt bring themselves advance to the giant skull shaped rock and that scary opening as the mouth....

those were the weak spots of The Phantom on big screen and overall it was quite an enjoyable watch :D

would suggest every fan of the ghost that walks and fan of light action flicks.

cheers
burak