First off, the movie is about an ex-soccer player--who was permanently wounded when he was younger--that wants to coach his own soccer team.  He finds an enthusiastic guy who's alias is Steel Leg; this guy is one of five Shaolin Kung Fu students who really wants to incorporate what they learned with a popular thing in order to make it popular.  The main plot focuses on getting the team together then entering a championship that's worth $1 million to them if they win.

What was so great about Shaolin Soccer is that the story was captivating.  You just are pulled into it.  There's humor, drama, and even a drop of romance.  The special effects were amazing--not in a new way, but how uniquely they used it (Imagine using The Matrix type of FX in a comedy).  The comedy was varied:  satirical, physical, stupid, etc.  There's even a few short song numbers and one dance number (copied, respectively, from MJ's "Thriller").  There are wonderful camera angles and such, too.

Of course, it wasn't perfect.  Some of the editing was bad, and a few gags were repetitious.  The US version seemed to do well for those parts, but they also took out some very wonderful gags that only make the Chinese version better.  Since I mention the US version I'd like to say this:  the dubbing is like usual dubbed Chinese films (you won't like it as much).  Also, only watch it if you're in the mood to compare the two versions--I watched both versions back to back.  Another thing, and it's more to do with the dvd, is that the Chinese version's sections that are cut out of the US version aren't dubbed (i.e. scene of "explosion" to dance where the guy talks, but no words are up to hear it).

Overall, I loved this movie.

+ Wonderful special effects and action

+ Encapturing story

+ Awesome variety of humor

+ Beautiful cinematography

- A few unneeded repetitious gags

- Chinese version edited too little (US's edited too much)

? Where are the captions?

? What, no extras besides both editions?

Closing thoughts:  If you enjoyed the creativity of Hero or Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, but thought either the story lacked or the action was uninteresting, you'll definitely find an interest in Shaolin Soccer.  You should at least view it once whenever you get the chance.  It's definitely worth buying even if there are no extras on it. 4.9/5__(Movie) 4.6/5__(Dvd)