I laughed when I read Zagnorch's review!  It reminds me of the scene in Stripes when Bill Murray asked his fellow soldiers "How many of you saw Old Yeller?  How many of you cried when...?"  I almost gave away the ending of Old Yeller.  But seriously, it'll be great when Snoopy, Come Home comes out on DVD.  Many of us have been waiting patiently.  It may not have Vince Guaraldi's jazzy score but the songs by the Shermann Brothers (also known for the musical score for Mary Poppins and Charlotte's Web) are charming ("The Best of Buddies," "Snoopy Come Home"), funny ("No Dogs Allowed" sung by Thurl Ravenscroft) and even heartbreaking ("It Changes").  The going away party theme sounds a little like something Guaraldi would have come up with.  Also, Woodstock makes his animation debut.

The movie starts out with Peppermint Patty promising a little beach picnic for Snoopy and the only thing standing in the way is a No Dogs Allowed sign which appears the next day (those construction workers worked a lot quicker back then than they do these days!).  Charlie Brown gets mad at his dog when he cuts his finger with the can opener (what a klutz!) and tries demanding a little appreciation (you can imagine how much he gets back from Snoopy, who just hands over the dog collar!).  Snoopy also gets in a boxing match with Lucy and a tug-of-war with Linus over his blanket.  Not long after those incidents, Snoopy gets a letter from a girl named Lila (who probably got his address from the Daisy Hill Puppy Farm) asking him to visit him while she's in the hospital.  He shares the letter with Charlie Brown, who says "If I don't find out who Lila is, I'll go crazy!"  On the way to the hospital, an overfriendly young girl named Claire decides to adopt Snoopy and Woodstock (she sings "Fundamental Friend Dependabitlity" while suffocating the poor beagle and putting Woodstock in a cage.  A "blanket carrying Sherlock Holmes" finds out all he can about Lila and finds out she was Snoopy's original owner.  Charlie Brown is surprised and passes out, KLUNK!  Meanwhile, Snoopy escapes Claire and makes it to the hospital despite another No Dogs Allowed sign.  After he meets Lila, he is faced with a difficult decision.  If you're the type who cries during sad movies, you may need a few tissues or hankerchiefs handy.