I had to get this the day it came out - I already own the MGM disc but when I heard that Criterion was releasing a version....
I wasn't disappointed! Criterion has loaded these discs with tons'o'goodies (I won't list them here as they are listed on this page by another helpful reviewer and Amazon).  The picture is great, the sound is great considering it's a mono track from 1940. There are a few jumps and skips but they are from missing film cells, not the DVD (I checked against my other disc). And as for those who have reviewed this disc and freaked out about the colors...

They are exactly the same.

No, seriously.  I took screen captures at multiple points in the film from both the MGM and Criterion discs on my DVD player, and the color difference is if not exactly the same, imperceptible to the human eye.  My eyes anyway... or my monitor.

But to the movie itself! I am guessing that if you are reading this you already know about this cinematic masterpiece but if not then read on! I won't summarize the plot as it has already been summarized on this page, but I will say that this is one of the greatest if not THE greatest fantasy films of all time.  The Thief of Bagdad grips you, nay gets you in a chokehold with a sense of wonder from the word go and doesn't let go until the very end when you'll be be hitting the play button frantically so it can do it to you all over again.  While you watch this you won't CARE if the acting is a little stilted in places or the effects crude by today's standards (in fact, the old SFX add to the charm!). The actors play their parts well. John Justin is adequate but not stellar (but I'll cut the dude some slack since this was his first movie).  Conrad Veidt is a master villain, the inspiration for Darth Vader ("It is your... destiny...."). Sabu is awesome. June Duprez is lovely. Rex Ingram is Rex Ingram.  It took at least six directors to make this puppy, but they managed to slap together the greatest Arabian Nights fantasy movie ever made. The only films in the genre that come close are the original Thief of Bagdad (1924) and the 7th Voyage of Sinbad (1958).  The Golden Voyage of Sinbad from 1974 trails slightly behind.

Summarization: I love this movie. This Criterion version is excellent - like the previous MGM version, but with more Thief of Bagdady goodness! Highly Recommended.