If you like action packed, futuristic stories, then you should probably see this movie.

When this movie first came out, it was so very different then anything that had proceeded it.  While action packed, science fiction movies had been made before, none were so deliciously eccentric as The Fifth Element. While the plot of evil taking over and a hero rising to save the day, and humanity, is not such an original concept, the twisted nature of the characters completely made up for this ten fold.

The tough ex-military Major, turned cab driver that just CAN'T catch a break Bruce Willis portrays is brilliant.  While he retains his action packed persona, he also adds a sarcastically witty humor to the mixture that creates a fun and strangely charming character, that you can't help but cheer for. The heroine of the story, the savvy, orange headed, non English speaking, fifth element, is just as amazing. Milia does a fantastic job creating a combination of sweet innocence, mischievous playfulness and a kick a$$ martial artist, that just makes the character of Li-loo explode with dynamic energy.  Then you have Ruby Rhod, the personification of sexual mainstream in the future. (And what is up with his clothes and hair?)He is diva of the twenty-third century,(and yes, I weep for the future) with a boisterous, flamboyant flavored personality and an inherent yellow streak that runs from the top of his head to the tips of his toes. This makes him a hilarious character to watch bumble around in the unlikely company of Major Corbin Dallas (Willis), the unwitting hero of the story.  The chemistry between the cast in each of their prospective roles is like a flawless dance, which makes the story that much more enjoyable.

The world itself is masterful and innovative!  The clothing, technology, transportation, and weapons is very original and like I said, wonderfully eccentric. The way each of the scenes were shot is spectacular and full of color.  It makes the world of The Fifth Element feel real and alive.  This, accompanied by the music compilation for the film, make it extremely likable all around.  The music fits the film like a glove, being as perfectly unconventional as the movie itself.

I just recently purchased the Blue Ray and was stunned by the sharpness of the picture.  It not only brings life to the film, but also makes it feel like you could be standing right there in the futuristic world along with the characters. If you like this movie and have NOT seen it on Blue Ray yet, I strongly suggest you do.  It's worth the experience.