How often do you hear these words all to describe the same movie? Better yet, how often does it turn out to be true? But "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" is all that and more, one of those few wonderful movies that is able to evoke a broad range of honest emotions in its running time of a little less than two hours.
The plot concerns the various picaresque adventures of Butch and Sundance, played to perfection by Paul Newman and Robert Redford. But the plot, what there is of it, is really of secondary importance. What's more important is the film's heartfelt, funny, and heartbreaking tribute to the Old West and the relationship between two nonconformists who wanted to stay there.
William Goldman's script perfectly captures the Old West's coming of age, but it captures another changing era equally well: that of the 1960's. Many have said the film is dated, I don't believe a word of it. It is most certainly a film from its time, capturing the time period's changes, its hope for a better tomorrow, and its more than occasional paranoia. I think the use of a distinctly 1960's style is not only acceptable, it is essential. The film has many of the markings of a traditional western, both in content and in style--the first color sequence showing Butch and Sundance riding back to the Hole in the Wall Gang looks like it could have come from just about any classic western, as do many other scenes throughout the film. But added to these are touches of modern filmmaking--the use of zooming, the three musical montages, etc. The style is a visual representation of the meeting between the old and the new; The Old West becoming The West, no Old involved. For the same reason, many have condemned the Burt Bachrach score; I praise it. I think the score perfectly underlines Butch and Sundance's breath of life in a seemingly decaying world, and is another wonderful example of the marriage between the Wild West and the Tame West. The "Raindrops Keep Fallin' On My Head" sequence perfectly and brilliantly establishes the relationship between the three principles, and, even more, it sets the tone for the entire film. Butch and Sundance are waking up from a dream, a dream they prefer to reality. The bicycle sequence is just one of the picture's many brilliant and entertaining stylistic touches that helps to enhance the characters and tone rather than draw away from them. The cinematography is beautiful, from the opening scenes shot brilliantly in sepia tones to the final, heartbreaking freeze-frame with bullets riddling the soundtrack.
In addition to all this, it is fun to watch. These are two real guys we genuinely care about, who we can sympathize with and root for. They are the quintessential likeable underdogs, and words can't describe the acting by Newman and Redford. There are so few movies today that have this classic and stylish sense of fun, few movies that can mix comedy with drama and action with characterization without feeling uneven, and there are so few films currently in theaters that really ENTERTAIN. The movie is melancholy, but it is also full of the joy of life, and is one of those rare movie experiences that leaves you completely uplifted without feeling cheated. There's no emotional manipulation here, because everything rings true with the surprising but inevitable found in great art, and the characters follow their natural, but nonetheless heartbreaking, paths.
Keep thinking, indeed, Butch. It's what your best at.