I have to put a review of this movie into the context of the W. Somerset Maugham novel from which it was adapted because both are rule-breaking works. Indeed, Maugham begins The Razor's Edge with the words, "I have never begun a novel with more misgiving." I read the book about 20 years ago, have re-read it several times, and to this day can't tell you if it is or is not markedly flawed in the way it was written. But I can tell you emphatically that I have never been more affected by any book. For about a week after reading it for the first time, I couldn't decide if it made any sense at all for me to be working in a bank. I remember finding only one other person who had read the book and found themselves similarly thwarted-a good person named Alexandra. Perhaps she will read this review and write one of her own.

This sense of ambivalence is reflected in the way that Bill Murray chose to adapt the story to suit his own interpretation of Maugham's vision. He takes a big risk in finding and or creating humor in the character of Larry Darrell-is this sense of humor appropriate for the period or is it too modern? I've seen the film a dozen times and still can't decide. But it does give the film a humanity and warmth that I find missing from the 1947 treatment starring Tyrone Power. One asks the same question of Maugham's decision to "star as himself" in his novel. By the way, Herbert Marshall deserves much credit for his portrayal of Maugham in the 1947 original film. And Murray deserves as much credit for avoiding a very literal re-make.

Some subtext that is largely forgotten: Murray claimed in a Rolling Stone interview upon the film's release that he had some horizon-expanding experiences while on location in Tibet-ironically paralleling his character's own experiences. If you didn't know, these characters and their story are all based on actual people that Maugham knew personally.

The cast is superb. Denholm Elliott, Catherine Hicks, Theresa Russell and James Keach truly capture their characters. Stand-outs in particular-because their characters were harder to portray-are Theresa Russell as Sophie (blows away Anne Baxter in the 1947 version) and believe it or not, James Keach as Gray Maturin. Keach had a smaller supporting role, but he manages to find just the right measure of human complexity in someone as uncomplicated as Gray was written- a gift that Maugham had with the written word.

Do I conclude this by revealing the eureka of the ending? The only thing I would rob you of is your own discovery-it is so subtle that you are almost tempted to read too much into it, but then again the more you see it the more its metaphor affects you. Despite all his setbacks, Murray climbs the famous stairs in Montmartre, first with small steps and then reaching the top with bounding exhuberance. He never quite gives up the path to salvation, does he? He understood the character far more than Maugham ever could. And for that sole insight he atones for any sins of interpretation he might have committed.