I can imagine that in 1968 a 10 year-old boy might have been all charged up for that cool guy and his car, so perhaps all the rave reviews are coming from the 48 year-old boys today.  But I am hard pressed (beyond nostalgia) to imagine the value (entertainment or otherwise) of this movie.

Sound: Clearly dubbed in post-production.  And this wouldn't be very difficult for any of the actors, since none of the dialogue or acting is ever so spontaneous that an over-dub would be a hard to reproduce (just say the line again, Steve).  And the car sounds don't match the car movement in the chase scene either...see the next section.

The chase scene that is "hard to top":  If by "hard to top" you mean nobody will ever do this again, you are probably right.  As for entertainment value, I've seen better home-video of punks beating on rental-cars.  The continuity is the big problem.  We have dent, we don't have a dent.  We see tire marks, we don't see tire marks.  And the sounds of the revving engine DO NOT match the scenes.  The car is clearly accelerating, yet we hear the "double-clutching" or a gear down that would have slowed, then lurched the car.  And there is no slowing or lurching.  And the only crash (which destroys the bad-guys' car) is in fast motion.  It's like something you would see in a low-budget comedy.  And speaking of comedy, any of the car chase action in "It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World" (1963) is more fun, more exciting, and more central to the plot.  So the entertainment value in the Bullitt chase scene is just not there.  It's not even bad enough to be funny.

The story: Nothing to see here, move along.  In fact, let's just watch Steve walk around and stand there.  Oh I get it.  I like looking at him too.  Most actors can't match his pure magnetism; there is something wonderful about his face that makes me want to  know what he might be thinking.  Unfortunately, that is not enough to carry the story.  And, most importantly, the story has nothing to do with Bullitt himself.  Sure we see his girl friend get upset because he doesn't open up, but this is at the end of the movie (and even then it is still more her problem than his).  So the big problem is, Bullitt has no problems.  He doesn't even have the problem of being much of a maverick.  The bad guys are purely bad (with no implications for our hero) and the corruption is straight-forward enough that only a 10 year-old boy would think it is important.

Theme: This is not some post-modern commentary on modern man's alienation; this is an uncomplicated vehicle for Steve's face.  The social issues of the day (black rights etc.) are not heard and only get one face (I think there is one black character, who says nothing or almost nothing).  Corruption is always a good issue, but it is so removed from the daily life of our hero that we are not really sure why we should care because we are not sure why HE would care.  Oh sure, it's his job to get the bad guys, and sure it gets harder if one of the bad guys is the mayor.  But that is established at the outset.  No surprises (unless you can't follow the dialogue--which might be a problem due to boredom or youth, or if you haven't seen a single movie in 30 years).

So aside from continuity problems, a simple story line (with no character connection) and poor sound and flat acting, this movie has at the charm of a 1970's made-for-TV drama.  If you like that kind of thing fine, but I wish all you fanatics (who probably just love looking at Steve's face) would stop saying how great this movie is.  It is not great.  It is not even average.  And it is well bellow average by any standards today.

If you must see it, don't buy it, don't even rent it, just ask if you can watch it the next time your friend's dad wants to watch it.  Then, when you can't take any more, just quietly excuse yourself and be thankful that you aren't out any of your hard earned money.