If you've read most of my reviews, lists, and "So-You'd-Like-To" things,, you know that i REALLY, REAAALLLY like this movie... yes sir, this is my FAVORITE MOVIE OF ALL TIME! If you've never seen it and you're wondering what my hype towards it is all about, let me give you a little tour of the plot:
Peter Gibbins is an I would assume around the age of 25 year-old office worker who couldn't possibly hate his job more than he hates it now... From the traffic jam in the morning where an old man in a walker makes better forward progress than him, to getting a shock when he touches the door to walk in, to listening to that fat red-haired lady say "JUUUST A MOOMMEEENNNT" non-stop, and of course, hearing those 4 favorite words of his: "Hello Peter,, what's happening?" from his boss, Bill Lumbergh, played hillariously by Gary Cole, and of course there's also that printer that always says "Paper jam" when there IS no paper jam. Then one day, Peter realizes that "humans were not meant to spend their short lives sitting in a cubicle staring at computer screens all day, listening to 8 different bosses moan on about mission statements", and just decides, "I'm not gonna go anymore", and it all goes downhill from there....... (That's all I'll tell, dont wanna ruin it :)
Other great characters include his 2 friends/coworkers, Michael Bolton (just a coincidence, no relation)- a computer nerd who loves rap music and states that "I shouldn't change my name, HE'S the one who sucks!", and Samir, an Arabian who really doesn't like that printer..., and then of course there's the great Milton Waddams, who just wants his stapler back, his paycheck, not to move his desk again, and a piece of cake.. and Tom Smikowski, the old guy who constantly worries about getting laid off, and Drew, the young laid-back guy who just wants to show a girl his OHH face (the "HOW LUMBERGH F*CKED HER" thing cracks me up every time :)  But of course my favorite character would probably be Peter's next door neighbor Lawrence, who just wants Peter to "Check out channel 9!" 
This will be a comedy you will easily love and relate to if you have a job or class you really don't like to get up every morning to go to.. trust me, I'VE had plenty of em....
This movie also has some great tunes to go with it- "I Got This Killer Up Inside of Me", the song that Michael sings in his car in the morning, that is until a black guy walks by... "Die Motherf*ckers Die", the ultimate printer-smashing song, "Damn It Feels Good to Be A Gangster", the perfect "I-don't-care-and-I-feel-great-about-it" song, and of course, the "Take This Job and Shove It(I Aint Workin Here No More)" song played in the end credits is priceless...
If you want a good comedy, you WILL NOT be dissapointed AT ALL! Trust me, this movie has lines that you will leave as quotes for your AIM away messages for years and years to come :)
You can go watch that 'Lizzie McGuire' movie if you want, but,,
in conclusion, I have 6 final words: TAKE THIS JOB AND SHOVE IT!!!!!!
GREATEST
MOVIE
EVER :)