I really think they should make another movie about Sylvia Likens  The movie An American Crime didn't tell the whole story. i did not like that dream sequence.  The cast was great, they should have told everything that happened.

If they make a new movie about Sylvia Likens, they need to show some pictures, and videos of the real house, and start at the beginning of Sylvia's story until the end, and have more updates on what happened to the Baniszewski family, and the neighborhood kids that hurt her, and the Likens's family. They should also show what happened to the house from the 1970's until they tore it down.  I do believe their is a movie director that can make Sylvia Likens story better, and tell the whole truth of everything, or at least more details. They can use the John Dean's House of Evil book, and everything their is to know about the Sylvia Likens story.  I know the movie would be longer but, i feel that Sylvia's story is really important and worth it. I believe people should be able to watch the truth, and know the history of everything to this story. I have learned so much about this story, and I really hate what they did to Sylvia. If i was a movie director, which i wish i was, i would direct this story correctly. I know it would be violent, gory, and longer. I do believe that a new movie on Sylvia Likens showing the whole truth can be done. I am sure there is a lot of good actors out there who would be great.  Actress Ellen Page is really the best Actress for Sylvia Likens, but i doubt Ellen Page would want to play Sylvia Likens again.

What would make this movie better? At the start of the movie, let the police come out and discover Sylvia Likens body, and Jenny tell the officer, Get me out of here and i will tell you everything, and let the movie go back to the beginning of Sylvia Likens story and go on from there, using the House of Evil book, other details, and court transcripts. An American Crime just didn't tell the whole truth. I hope another movie on Sylvia Likens can be done without any fictionalized scenes.

I didn't like Jack Ketchums The Girl Next Door either, it was too much fiction, for example 1958,  it was 1965,  and they changed the names, and area. It didn't even feel to me like The Sylvia Likens Story.

We need the Sylvia Likens story to be re-done.