This film is an adaptation of an Off-Broadway play about two working class New York couples -- one (Jack and Connie) is just starting to get to know each other, the other (Clyde and Lucy) is showing cracks in their marriage.

Clyde (John Ortiz) and Lucy (Daphne Rubin-Vega), being a friend of Jack (Philip Seymour Hoffman) and Connie (Amy Ryan), respectively, have just introduced the latter to each other and have invited them to a double dinner date one wintry night. Jack and Connie seem to hit it off right away; in fact, Connie suggests going out on a boating adventure. Not knowing how to swim but not wanting to turn down Connie, for this might be misconstrued as potential disinterest in her, Jack agrees to a summertime adventure.

Clyde, who considers Jack to be his best friend, teaches him how to swim. Meanwhile, an opportunity opens up for Jack to do something special for Connie sooner.  Injured, Connie is hospitalized. To give Connie something to look forward to while recovering, Jack tells her he'll cook a feast of a dinner for her when she gets out. Extremely touched, Connie tells Jack that no one, except for her mother, has ever cooked anything for her.

But Jack doesn't cook!!  So who comes to Jack's rescue again? Clyde and Lucy, of course! They introduce Jack to Lucy's chef friend Frederick aka Cannoli (even though Clyde still harbors ill feelings toward Frederick for his and Lucy's past indiscretion) and let Jack use their kitchen for practice.

The film has many heartwarming moments like those already mentioned above. We see all four characters striving and root for them: While Jack and Connie are reaching out for new job opportunities as well as opportunities to grow out of their lonely shells and make connections based on trust and affection, Clyde and Lucy are unselfishly helping them.

But the film also has its sad moments.  Knowing how good people Clyde and Lucy are, it breaks our hearts to see them struggling with their marriage for reasons revealed in the film.

This film is primarily a character-driven movie, so I'm glad to report that, in my opinion, the entire cast gave strong, tempered performances.  The movie's overall "tone" is a tempered character study one, so it's a bit slow-going in certain parts, but there are nice, romantic shots of New York City in winter and summer times.

The bonus features in the DVD include two deleted subway ride scenes that would have added more "local color" to the film but no direct impact to moving the plot forward, and an interesting discussion of what changes were made to the play for the screen adaptation (hint: the Clyde and Lucy storyline became a little bit "darker").