I got sucked into this movie late one night while I was channel surfing.  I saw about 5 seconds of the incredible opening shot of a public sqaure in San Francisco during lunch hour, and I was completely hooked. I stayed up until about 3 a.m. to watch the whole thing, and I have seen it several times since then. I was anxiously awaiting the day it was released on DVD because this has become one of my all time favorite movies.
It's an exmple of how a movie can give you tension, a great story and depth of character with a relatively simple plot, small wonderful cast and no special effects.  This is brilliant storytelling and every detail is as good as it gets, right down to the haunting score.  
Without a doubt, this is Gene Hackman's best work of his career; he manages to embody conflicting emotions and subtle nuances of his character, Harry Caul, a top notch (and famous) surveillance specialist.  Harry has the seemingly impossible job of recording a conversation between two people walking through a public square suring a busy lunchour, without the use of "bugs" on the subjects, but he pulls it off.  And it seems like a simple task, just record the conversation, turn in the tapes and get paid.  But something about the couple he's recording and the meaning behind their words haunts Harry, and he's faced with the grim reminder of a past job that went terribly wrong.  He's completely paranoid about every facet of his life, but he's especially fearful of repeating the same mistakes.
The film has a wonderfully voyeuristic feel without the use of or need for a handheld camera or shakey photography. And despite the look of the film capturing the era of the early/mid 70s, nothing about this seems in the least bit dated, and I think that is the true mark of a classic.  The dialogue is still natural and interesting and utterly human.  And though the technology of the film may be outdated, the underlying themes and paranoia are not.  
I love Coppola's films, but I doubt if he will ever make another masterpiece like this.  He also had a terrific eye for young talent, casting people like Harrison Ford and Terri Garr in small but pivotal supporting roles where you could really see that they had so much talent to develop.  
It's not a chick flick or a guy flick, it's a simply brilliant, timeless, subtly thrilling and thought-provoking film.
The DVD doesn't offer much in the way of extras; pretty much just a brief behind the scenes documentary that was done in the 70s, so it has a kind of cool nostalia about it.  But you don't buy a movie like this on DVD for the extras. You buy it because you love it and you want the best picture and sound you can get.  
I also have to add that I couldn't help but notice that there is something about Gene Hackman, especially the age he's at in this film, that reminds me of Russell Crowe.  Something about the quiet intensity and that sense of tumultuous emotions roiling just beneath the surface but never really getting a chance to blow.  Few actors can become or create such a quirky, odd and interesting character while maintaining true humanity and a sense of vulnerability and strength simultaneously.  I think Crowe came close to that in The Insider, another brilliant movie and another brilliant and subtle performance.  In a lot of ways I see major similarities between the character of Jeffrey Wigand in The Insider and Harry Caul in The Conversation.  Maybe someday Russell will be fortunate enough to do a film like The Conversation.  I don't think anyone else could have played Harry Caul except for Gene Hackman, no matter when the film was made.  
It's just one of those rare moments where an actor and the character are made for one another.