That's not, definitely not, Lew Ayres on the cover of the latest DVD or the previous one. It's Walter Rogers, who played Behm, the reluctant recruit who was blinded and killed early in the movie. Why they didn't use Ayres photo I'll never know, but the Rogers' artwork is nonetheless haunting. Incidentally, Rogers/Behm never wore the steel helmet in the movie.

Yes, the remastered DVD is much better quality than the former. What a movie! The end still moves me. Ever notice how much the French sniper, who kills Baumer, looks like Duval, the soldier Baumer killed in the crater? I'll have to take a closer look to determine if it is indeed Raymond Griffith, who played Duval, as the sniper. Looks a lot like him.

 I also love Milestone's picture-in-picture -- or whatever you call the technique. For example:Paul's class and the view through the window of all the activity outside. Milestone uses this technique frequently. Same as Citizen Kane in which we see young Kane through the window sledding outside. Is that rear/back projection, mise-en-scene or what? Thanks. And when Paul et al are hunkered down during the bombardment in the shack there's a lot of activity in the trench or street in the rear. And when Paul's mother says goodbye to him, we see her reflection in the dresser mirror as she exits the scene. These are no accidents but a great movie-maker's art.

Not so incidentally, Lew Ayres' WWII experience is also a great story. Pacifist (nothing wrong with that) who refused to take arms against fellow man yet served as a corpsman in the South Pacific and was decorated. Also, not so incidentally, medics and corpsman were prized targets of the enemy. Louis B. Mayer and others thought Ayres was a coward. Mr. Ayres was, in my opinion, as great a vet and soldier as Audie Murphy, my father, perhaps your father,grandfather,uncle and so many others who did their duty in the war.

Ayres claimed conscientious objector status and asked for medical corps duty but was instead sent to a labor camp and his movie career came to a halt. I think, from all I've read, that yes, indeed, Mr. Ayres was affected by his experience making AQOTWF, but he was also deeply religious and of a philosophical bent.

Again, I don't have statistics (I can get them) but Ayres served in one of the most dangerous occupations there was in WWII, Korea, Vietnam, Gulf War or any other war, anytime, anywhere: corpsman. Check it out. And his reluctance to bear arms and yet serve his country in combat was and is a remarkable thing.