When I was growing up in the 1980s before cable was widespread, I would occasionally catch a glimpse of these shows, as well as other "animagic" classics. Of all the Christmas shows I watched growing up, these had the greatest impact on my memory. When I went looking for them in the 1990s, I found many of them on video, but now that the DVD age is upon us, I am looking for them again.

This set contains three excellent, although somewhat lesser known, Rankin-Bass animagic classics.

The first show, "The Year Without a Santa Claus" tells the story of when Santa decides to cancel his yearly Christmas trip, and nobody seems to care. Some of Santa's elves, along with Vixen the reindeer, take off to Southtown to find some Christmas cheer. If only it would snow at Christmas, the town would believe! This show features the well-known "Heat Miser" and "Snow Miser," who battle for control of the weather. I have always enjoyed this one, especially the Miser brothers. I especially like the song "I Believe in Santa Claus," which is a fine Christmas song in its own right. I wish someone would compile a "best of" Rankin-Bass CD.

The second show, "Nestor the Long-Eared Christmas Donkey" tells the story of a donkey with big ears who is kicked out of his original stable, only to wind up accompanying Mary and Joseph to Bethlehem (thanks to the help of an angel). It is short, but it is told beautifully. Rankin-Bass produced a few religious animagic shows, including this and the acclaimed (but sadly out-of-print) "The Story of the First Christmas Snow." They do a wonderful job of creating stories that are entertaining, but also reverent and respectful of the biblical stories.

The final show on the DVD is "Rudolph's Shiny New Year." It is the story of Happy, the New Year's Baby (the future Father Time) with big ears who runs away because he is constantly teased. If he doesn't make it back in time, the new year won't arrive! Rudolph joins the hunt to find the baby. This is the weakest of the three shows, in my opinion. While it is funny in many places and teaches a good lesson of accepting others, overall I find that this show just isn't as memorable as the others. However, it is still much better than most other holiday specials out there and worth owning.

Overall, these are three great animagic shows that teach basic values and always get me in the Christmas spirit. While some kids and adults may not understand the point of animagic, seeing as how we are now in the digital age, I find that the stories themselves are strong enough to draw people in and in turn allow them to appreciate the animagic. I just wish other similar shows would make it to DVD soon, especially "The Life and Adventures of Santa Claus."