Boogie Nights is simply one of the greatest film making achievements of all time. There are so many awe-inspiring elements to this movie it's difficult to know where to start. The acting is absolutely outstanding led by Burt Reynolds who gives the performance of a lifetime. Burt deserved his Oscar nomination and should have taken home the trophy. His calculated and nuanced performance is a joy to behold. But the rest of the cast is just as stellar and could be the most talent ever put together in one movie.  Many of these talented actors may have not been as well known at the time the movie was made but are now recognized as among the best in the industry. Julianne Moore, Don Cheadle, John C. Reilly, Mark Wahlberg, Heather Graham, William H. Macy and this years Best Actor Oscar winner Philip Seymour Hoffman are among the finest and hottest actors today and they bring to life a cast of characters that is unforgettable. In addition to this incredible all star line up the film features a wonderful array of bit players who each shine during their brief time on the screen.

The story keeps you on the edge of your seat at all times because you have no idea what is going to happen next.  Boogie Nights has more twist and turns than a roller coaster and is just as thrilling. And with all of the serious drama and action the film is loaded with hilariously funny moments along the way that endear these characters to the audience, faults and all.  Anyone who doesn't see this magnificent film because they think it is just about the porn industry will be depriving themselves of one of the most exhilarating, enjoyable and satisfying motion pictures they will ever experience.

The other major star of the movie is the magical musical soundtrack that has obviously been meticulously selected and each song is placed not only in the perfect scene but comes in at the exact right moment.  The songs and their placement in the film are phenomenal and take you right back to the 70's and set the mood perfectly.

Paul Thomas Anderson has created a masterpiece that is a must have for any DVD collection.  You can and will watch this movie over and over and over again, love it more each time and discover something new each time.  This movie has found a place in my heart and a spot in my top ten of all time.