First and foremost, my Blu-Ray copy of this film that I received today does have the English (Theatrical) subtitles label on the back. My guess is that Amazon is probably including a note to their distributors at this point to be sure to send out copies with theatrical subs. Enough bad reviews and customer complaints/returns have to make a difference eventually. While I have not seen the other version with the bad subtitles, I definitely feel for the people who received those inferior copies. Movies like this certainly do not deserve to have the intent/emotional weight of their dialogue ruined by subtitles obviously catered to "illiterate American" audiences. Which brings me too my next point...

Let me say first of all that I am a huge horror film fan. I have viewed and enjoyed horror films classic and new, and am certainly not a fan of the mainstream remakes and formulaic crap that gets dished out to our wonderful theaters as a result of lowest common denominator film making and the word of "test audiences." Having said that, this is very likely my favorite horror film of all time. Unconventional in every respect, and skillfully ambiguous enough to illicit multiple interpretations for each viewer. It features brilliant photography and lighting, wonderful performances by the child cast in particular (a rare feat that is better accomplished here than in even some of Spielberg's films,) great analog sound design, a chilling score, and an emotional resonance that stays with you for days after seeing it. The fact that they are remaking this near perfect film irritates me beyond belief, not only because it is a masterpiece as is, but I honestly believe that this is a film that could honestly speak to a wide American audience. It features characters that anyone can relate to in some way, and I can't imagine this plot being set in a different cultural context. Maybe the remake will re-spawn interest in this achievement in modern film making, but then again, what did Quarantine do for (rec)? Nothing. I believe that everyone should see this movie, especially those who are not generally into horror films. This film breathes new life into a genre that has become somewhat stale in the USA, and has certainly been recognized for it. It is no accident that this film has a staggering 97% on Rotten Tomatoes, and that its future transformation into an American remake is so detested. Now is the best chance to see this wonderful and beautiful film, especially when the Twilight series is currently setting the standard for vampire romance films right now. Pay attention Twilight, this is how it is done...and as a further note, this was done first. Bravo!