As a history student, Filipina, and someone who has spent a lot of time studying this subject I was very pleased to see a film that took the effort to stay true to a true and little known story. What the Philippines went through during World War II is one of the most tragic and interesting chapters of the history of the war, but has been, even during the recent rising interest in WWII, largely overlooked. This film begins to look at it, and what better way to learn history than through a film?

This film has excellent performances from a diverse (and great looking ;-)) cast including many Filipino actors. As a Pinay myself I found the attention paid to the men and women of the Philippines in this film a fitting and overdue homage to my countrymen -- "kababayan". My favorites in this film would be James Franco, Connie Nielsen, and Cesar Montano. And Benjamin Bratt looks hot in a uniform.

I don't really like war films that much but saw this with my grandmother, and I was never bored during this film, it moved quickly and seamlessly and keeps your attention. My only complaint is that it wasn't graphic enough. There was no mention of the rape, the decapitations, or the full nature of or amount of torture and destruction inflicted on the Filipino people or the POWS.

I saw this film with my grandmother who went through the war and has often told stories of seeing bodies of bayoneted babies, friends who were killed, decapitated bodies, war torn landscapes. Family friends had a brother who died in the death march. After seeing this film she called up many of her friends and told them to see it, and then we got into another discussion, and she very emotionally told a story I had never heard before. I only bring this up to let viewers know that this is a subject that is very real, very painful, and something that we need to talk about and ask about and LEARN about. And for that I am thankful that these filmmakers made this film.

To anyone interested in learning more about this subject I recommend BEGINNING with "We Band of Angels", "Ghost Soldiers", and the gruesome/heartbreaking "Battle for Manila", one of the worst battles of the entire war. The latter is a very graphic book so be forewarned. History isn't pretty.