High Anxiety plays off like a horror/comedy and keeps you hooked from the "dramatic airport" opener to the final showdown in the tower high above the Pacific Ocean. Most will say it's just a comedy but I will say it's a horror movie as well and I'll tell you why.

Mel Brooks plays Dr. Thorndyke, a psychiatrist sent to work for an asylum out in California. He arrives just after the last guy died under mysterious circumstances and is immediately greeted by his new coworkers and associates including the downright evil and manipulative Nurse Diesel and the submissve but devious Dr. Monatigue. The suspense in this film starts out right away and literally doesn't let up.

After a nice dinner when Nurse Diesel shows how controling she is the new coworkers propose a toast to Dr. Thorndyke. All participate in this toast except Nurse Diesel and the way the scene was done with the music, the costumes and the atmosphere will literally send chills down your spine.

This is a horror movie because the ideas that it explores are terrifying. Thorndyke finds out that Diesel and Montagiue are keeping people at the asylum against their will and bilking their families for money. Anyone in the inner circle who dares threaten the security and the secrecy of the evil scheming of Nurse Diesel is offed and disposed of. This easily could be remade into a straight horror film with concepts like the above mentioned ones. The concept alone is chilling even though Nurse Diesel is a laugh riot with her costume, mannerisms and the lines she uses. To me this movie showcases Cloris Leachman as a class act actress.

All in all "High Anxiety" is way more fun and classy then any comedy out today. It's a drama/horror/comedy that is nonstop fun from start to finish and it's not filled exclusively with tip offs to diversity and nonstop sex jokes like so many 21st century films. This is easily in my personal top 5 movie lists of all time. I think anyone with an open mind about what comedy is supposed to be about ought to give this one a spin. If you're like me you'll never be able to get enough of the evil scheming of Nurse Diesel. Who doesn't like the bellhop with the newspaper scene?