For those people who are not aware of this debate, the Book of Mormon teaches that the Native American Indian populations of North and South America are primarily descendants of families who migrated to these continents from the middle east.  It teaches that Native Americans are Israelites.  In contrast, some scientists maintain that the Native American people must have migrated here from Asia across a land bridge tens of thousands of years ago.

The main thrust of this video explains how DNA testing has proven that the native people currently living in Eastern Siberia, share a common ancestry with the native people living in North America.  The producers and experts in this video maintain that this proves the Book of Mormon is false.

The only problem with this assertion is that the historical record has already told us that the tribes on both sides of the Bering Strait have been freely traversing the strait for many centuries, and have commonly intermarried with each other.  Native people from North America have been freely traveling by boat into Siberia for centuries.  DNA researchers have basically told us nothing that we don't already know; that the native people in both Siberia and Alaska are closely related.  DNA evidence alone does nothing to disprove the Book of Mormon in any way.  Eskimo tribes live in Siberia.  They could not possibly have been genetically isolated for twenty thousand years since the collapse of the supposed "land-bridge"  as so many scientists mistakenly believe and preach.

DNA evidence can only prove a common ancestry between people. On it's own, it tells us little about migration patterns, or about where people ultimately migrated from.

The elaborate webs these so called scientists weave based on incomplete, or mis-interpreted data is almost laughable if it were not for the large numbers of people who are being deceived by it.

The views expressed in this video also show us just how far many Christians will go in their efforts to disprove Mormonism, even if their efforts attack their own religion.  Just as a previous reviewer pointed out; the content of this film relies heavily on the opinion of experts such as Thomas Murphy. Mr Murphy has maintained that DNA evidence also suggests that humans are descended from chimps, that humans are merely a third specie of chimpanzee.  Now of course, most Christians would take issue with that kind of "evidence,"  but they are all too happy to pick and choose the so called "evidence" which seems to attack the Book of Mormon.