I didn't see this movie when it first came out in the theatres, and wasn't privvy to all the trash-talk about it's initial box-office flop. Came across it while channel-surfing about a year ago, and only caught bits and pieces of it the first few times- but was intrigued enough by what I saw to eventually buy my own copy; I have now watched it through several times in the last year. This being the 454th review of this film on this site, by no means do I figure to offer any amazing new insights for someone who has never seen this under-appreciated movie. But after reading through several of both the one and five-star reviews on this site, I thought I'd add just a few personal observations. To start, it is worth nothing that about 3/4 of the numerous reviews posted here rate MJB as a 5-star movie. The 5% that relegate it to one star all have a central theme: it was too long, too slow, and pretentious.

Now I am a contemplative sort at heart, but still also enjoy a good pure-action flick, provided the production values, acting, plot and message are sound. Perhaps because I have been a cancer specialist for the past 23 years, and am witness to Death on a frequent basis (in His more obscure, spiritual form), I think those who are critical of the perceived "slowness" of this film just aren't catching what I believe must have been the intent of the director: life generally rushes by in the blink of an eye, but when you are confronted with your own imminent mortality, and the pressing reality of the prospect of Oblivion (or at least the end of all you know as real), everything tends to slow down to a snail's-pace. The last days, hours, minutes of one's life are grasped very dearly, and only relinquished with great resignation.

The pace, therefore, of MJB I believe to be a purposeful attempt to capture that time warp- those who found this movie slow and pretentious just didn't buy into the attempt. I think many of the 5 star reviewers for this movie obviously did. I did, and can only add that when one's life is "flashing before your eyes", it actually "flashes" at a very languid pace. The human spirit holds on as long as it can, to savor what it is about to know no more.

I won't comment on all the other aspects of this very-finely crafted movie, except to say that like so many others, I was riveted by Claire Forlani's physical presence: she didn't have to utter a single syllable in this film for me- Beauty beyond description, so much that even Death Himself was caught in her spell. How some reviewers saw Anthony Hopkins' performance in this film disappointing is beyond me: he's the perfect actor to handle the subdued and introspective nature of his character in MJB. Likewise, Brad Pitt does a credible job with a part that must have posed quite the challenge to portray in a believable way, and yet always manage to convey a sense of other-worldliness. The first time I watched MJB I was put-off by his seemingly stilted, robotic mannerisms and monotone speech- but with repeated viewing, it just fits. This guy (Death) doesn't get out much, after all. Also a nice casting choice to make the human form of Death so physically attractive: a subtle reminder that appearances are yet mortal, fleeting, dust in the wind.

And the musical score is excellent- purposefully grandiose and sweeping at times, and lyrically subdued, tender, and sad at others. Of course, if you thought the movie slow and pretentious, the score probably also seems melodramatic. To each his own.

But I guess to appreciate this movie you just "have to be there" : facing your own mortality with a guaranteed finality, and even an awareness of what will be your final day, your "last rush of time".

If you are in such a place, or perhaps have faced it with a loved one, this movie will ring absolutely true. Recommended, regardless of all the negative hype over the years, as a lasting testament to Life.