I only got this movie pack to see "Tower of London." I had seen it when I was a kid on TV and then again about 15 years ago. It's every bit as good as I remember it both times and is by itself well worth the price of the DVD package.

But I want to say something about one of the B-movies included: the 1937 "Night Key." I had never even heard of it. It's a mildly entertaining melodrama, with generally good acting but gets silly towards the end. Only the day after seeing it did I realize that there is something odd here. And then it hit me: "Night Key" is the narrative grand-daddy to the TV series "Breaking Bad."

In "Night Key," Karloff plays a scientist with a pressing and degenerative health problem (he is going blind). Despite a brilliant mind he has almost no money, which he desperately needs for medical care and also to take care of his family (here limited to an adult, unmarried daughter). We learn of a back story in which Karloff's character was cheated years earlier by a business partner who got rich at his expense. We also learn that these two men were romantically involved with the same woman. Now Karloff has to turn to crime, even though he has always been completely law-abiding. (For all the good it did him!)By accident he encounters a career criminal about to fall into police custody and whom he helps to escape. The career criminal is a sympathetic character, and also adds some comic relief. He and Karloff become friends even though they come from different worlds. However, Karloff's involvement with this fellow gets him involved with a criminal gang run by a psychopathic killer. Things quickly go from bad to worse as the psychopathic gang leader kidnaps Karloff and his friend. Karloff must then use his scientific knowledge to save himself, his friend and his family.

If you have seen "Breaking Bad" this will all sound VERY familiar! Which leaves only one question: were the writers of the TV show influenced by "Night Key" or is this just an incredible coincidence?