If there is a movie that is comparable to the 2002's Zhang Yimou epic - Hero, Swordsman 2 is a movie that matches it from on paper to the all-star cast. In fact made in 1991, Swordsman 2 also questions the idea of 'who is a real hero?'. With an all-star cast during the early nineties of Brigitte Lin, Jet Li (at the height of his fame), Michelle Reis, Rosamund Kwan and a bunch of well known HK stars with minor roles. It is also comparable to Hero in terms of box-office takings, in fact Swordsman 2 is Jet Li's highest grossing HK film and Hero is Jet Li's highest grossing film in China which broke numerous of records. The action director of Hero is Swordsman 2's Director - Ching Siu Tung who although is not as artistic as Zhang Yimou is right up there in terms of the visual and mind-blowing display. Despite being a sequel to Swordman played by Sam Hui, Swordsman 2 is better than its predecessor in nearly all departments. Although, Sam Hui plays the womanizer, drunk, best swordsman with great success, Jet Li is right up to par in terms of his acting and when combining with action, the role is really his. This is even more shocking as Jet himself say by playing Ling, it was a role that he could not relate to in real life which turned out to be one of Jet best performance in his entire movie's career. Brigitte Lin plays the role of Dawn even better as she played a man who turned into a woman. The chemistry between Lin and Li is also a highlight of the film and eventually creating a response from the viewers about whether their love is possible. Surprisingly, Li chemistry with both Michelle Reis and Rosamund Kwan seems natural and believable and the performance of Reis provides some much needed comic relief. Fennie Yuen is also another star that shown great presence in her minor role and performed especially well. If you come into Swordsman 2 expecting lots of fists to fists fight, then you will be disappointed as this is a wuxia film, with people flying around. The absorbing fist is a cool invention and well used in this film with the help of some mind-blowing special effects despite made 12 years ago. With all-star pretty girls, presence of Jet Li, direction of Hero's action director Ching Siu Tung, and produced by Tsui Hark, in a near perfect HK film which despite being a sequel could well stand well alone. Whenever watching Swordsman 2 it always reminds me of the great times that HK used to be and whenever hearing the theme song 'Laughing Swordsman' put a smile on my face. If there is a film comparable to Hero, then Swordsman 2 is right up there plus comedy.?? ???