I rented this movie and watched it last night; I must say I was thoroughly impressed.  The story had plenty of action in it, but in all fairness was much more than merely another spy action flick.  They kept feeding you just enough contradicting information to keep you second guessing what you thought was really happening.

In case you havent seen the previews, the story starts when a Russian defector turns himself in to the CIA to inform them about an assassination plot against the Russian president when he attends the American vice presidents funeral.  The final bit of information he gives on the plot is the name of the would-be assassin; Evelyn Salt (Angelina Jolie).  The part that I felt was never addressed in the previews was why she would run instead of just proving she wasnt going to kill anyone.  She runs because she is afraid that the Russians may have her husband and she leaves to find him.  I thought this added some realism to the movie rather than taking the direction "Im going to run because Im innocent".  At this point the movie is part Bourne, part The Fugitive and all around captivating.  I wont go any further that this so that there wont be any spoilers.

Here are a few other things that I liked about the movie, the first being the movie versions.  In a day and age when most movies try to milk you out of every penny offering a theatrical version, followed by the extended, and finally directors cuts of the movie, Salt offers all three versions on one Bluray.  I chose to watch the Directors Edition,  I havent done the research to see what all the differences are as of yet, but I thought it would be a good place to start.  One of the differences that I noticed was the lack of "sexual scenes", especially those that were in the previews, gone is Angelina's typical "sex symbol" role.  I noticed this when I was watching the bonus content "Salt: Disclosed" and they flashed through a few scenes that were in the previews that I retroactively noticed werent in the directors cut.  The thing that I liked about this is that usually "directors cuts" add in either more sex or violence that they had to cut to make a more favorable rating.  The fact that the director cut the "sex" to make the movie more like he wanted really stood out to me.  I dont have any problems with mature content in mature movies, but I thought it was admirable to not just cash in on the extra draw of more nudity or sexual situations, and rather focus on making the movie just how you want it.  Also retrospectively I noticed that I dont believe there was any profanity in the movie, or very little at most.  On the other hand the violence was quite brutal and abrupt.  I dont mean that it was gorey or over the top or uncalled for, quite the opposite.  It felt that the violence matched the type of people in the movie, these are all trained CIA and Russian agents, they arent going to spend a lot of time hesitating to shoot someone who is a threat to them, and arent going to waste a lot of time regretting having to have shot someone who just tried to kill them.

All these things together made a movie good enough that not only do I plan to purchase the movie, but I would like to go back and watch the other two versions of the movie and try and see what all the differences are.  Both Angelina and Liev put up great performances, and fans of either should watch this movie, also any fans of the spy/thriller genre will definitely enjoy it as well.