The first Bond screenplay, THUNDERBALL, while still a favourite of many, is somewhat of a disappointment following the classics DR. NO and FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE and the archetypal Bond film GOLDFINGER.  The strength of the movie lies mainly in Connery's performance of Bond, which rescues the character somewhat from the script, and in its underwater scenes which dominate the action portion of the movie.  The underwater filming was revolutionary for 1965, winning an Oscar, but is unlikely to wow modern viewers, with the exception of one scene; an excellently-choreographed pitched underwater battle.  Lacking comedy, the dramatic urgency of the film isn't maintained either, partly because the tongue-in-cheek ride of GOLDFINGER instead stumbles here as we are introduced to a series of bland villains and undeveloped minor heroic characters.  Rik Van Nutter's Felix Leiter is perhaps the most uninteresting rendition of the character ever.  He doesn't foil Bond, he simply disappears, just as Claudine Auger's Bond girl Domino Derval wanders through the film, the first of a long list of forgettable leading conquests to come.  
THUNDERBALL introduces us to Bond as superhero.  He's not yet perfectly competent in every regard, but he performs a number of impossible stunts and heals inhumanly fast.  The more-realistic portrayals of the quick-witted spy of the first films is fading fast.  What isn't fading is the constant dubbing and editing problems that plague the early films, although the special effects here are the best yet.  THUNDERBALL also introduces us to a Bond that actively and obviously disrespects the women around him, at one point literally blackmailing an irrelevant-to-the-plot woman into his arms (Mollie Peters' Pat Fearing), a seduction which we are to believe she is later enthusiastic about.
The DVD menu has returned to the irritating style of interface from DR. NO, which will make you want to quickly skip through to the film or to the many special features.  Unlike the earlier "Special Editions", the music soundtrack is mixed surprisingly loud as compared to the dialogue tracks, which may inspire some annoying fiddling with the volume in the middle of watching the movie. 
THUNDERBALL relies heavily on Sean Connery's screen presence, and sfx tricks that have aged less gracefully than he has.  That said, it's a ride that has been entertaining viewers for almost four decades now, and a fine classic Bond episode.