Take a Woody Allen movie where Woody politely stays BEHIND the camera. Add a perfectly cast Mia Farrow as a waif-like dreamer of a girl, living in the grinding poverty of the 1930's Depression and married to an blustering, brutal man.  Top it off with a brilliant dual performance by Jeff Daniels who is a cinematic film hero who steps out of the screen and the actor who plays this hooky playing fictional character.  
Cecilia (Mia Farrow) works as a waitress (on the verge of being fired).  Her life is grim, living in a tenement with her no-account husband (Danny Aiello).  Her one pleasure is the movies that she attends daily.  Her favorite is "The Purple Rose of Cairo," and the explorer character "Tom Baxter" brings radiance to her eyes that never leave him.  After multiple viewings, one day "Tom" falters in his lines, seems distracted, then steps out of the film and joins Cecilia in the audience.  The cast and audience are suitably stunned; the cast enjoining him to get back on the screen so they can finish the movie, and the audience grumbling they didn't pay good money to watch the cast arguing among themselves.  "Tom" is resolute, and out they walk, he in his pith helmet and explorer togs, Cecilia radiant.  The movie industry is appalled worried about litigation and insurrection if characters start walking off the screen.  Gil Shepard, the actor who played"Tom" is sent to the scene to talk "Tom" into getting back onscreen where he belongs.  "Tom" clearly is innocent of what the "real" (as opposed to "reel") world is about.  He is in love with Cecilia and she allows that he "is the perfect man.  Of course, he's fictional."  Real life "Gil," Tom, and Cecilia meet. The ending is surprisingly intense. 
Jeff Daniels is dazzling as Gil/Tom. He handles both roles to perfection.  The interaction among Daniels, Farrow, and Aiello is flawless.  Much as I wanted to thoroughly despise Aiello as the low-life husband, he managed to make me laugh and feel sorry for him with his bravado performance.  All the jokes and humor work in "The Purple Rose of Cairo," which isn't the case in many Allen movies.  I believe this is Woody Allen's valentine to his beloved movies.  It couldn't be better.  Even if you are a dedicated Allenophobe, see this movie.  You won't be disappointed.
-sweetmolly-Amazon Reviewer