I've seen the other Scary Movies and mostly, they are crap.  The third one was kind of funny, but for the most part, they are pretty useless pieces of film.  Good for a few cheap laughs, I grant you, but otherwise forgettable.  The fourth one is of about the same quality of the third one (although notably lacking the Jenny Mcarthy factor) and starts off well, with Dr. Phil and Shaquille O'Neil (is he Irish?) chained to one another in a deathtrap, ala "Saw."  Humour ensues, as Dr. Phil makes fun of his television persona and Shaq makes fun of the fact that he is not very good at making free throws.  The movie quickly turns its focus to two main characters which I would normally say the names of except for the fact that their names are so unimportant that it doesn't matter.  Suffice to say, the lady is the same lady that has been in every Scary Movie so far except that now she is blonde and the guy is some jabroni who you've never seen before and will probably never see again.  Blonde Lady is involved in a parody of "The Grudge", a very decent Japanese Horror film that got the US remake treatment last year.  Forgettable guy is involved in a parody of "War of the Worlds", another recent remake.  It's pretty predictable from there--aliens invade, people die, and people hit themselves in the head.  Just for good measure, Blonde Lady goes off with her rather randy female friend into a parody of "The Village" and more hilarity results.  At the end, Forgettable Guy makes like Tom Cruise and jumps on Oprah Winfrey's couch.

The important question--is it funny?  Well, there is a bit of inspired casting with Leslie Nielsen as a G.W. Bush-esque president and I always like to see people make fun of "The Village", but ultimately it is pretty much like a Mad Magazine article.  If you are willing to pay $10 to see people say wacky things and get hit in the testicular region, this movie is for you.  Otherwise, it is probably safe for a video rental or, best yet--skip it.

In honor of Joe Bob Briggs, here are the drive-in movie totals: innumerable dead bodies, one nude Lesley Nielsen (covered) and multiple nude ambassadors to the United Nations (also, thankfully covered), two monsters (fake).  Three ears bitten off, one foot cut off.  Man falls over railing.  Cat falls over railing.  Numerous people running into things. Children slapped and beaten for humorous effect.  Urine bath.  Viagra joke.  Boxing fu.  Alien death weapon fu.  Saw fu.  Two stars.  Skip it.