Sir Percival Blakeney is heroic all the same.

I stumbled across this DVD in the quest for another movie and decided to see if it was as good as I remember. As other reviewers have noted, The Scarlet Pimpernel's draw for me back in 1982 was Anthony Andrews.

As I recall, he had just made several guest appearances on The Love Boat as the romantic interest of Julie McCoy and thought he was quite handsome. So I had to see The Scarlet Pimpernel and I wasn't disappointed.

The foppish Sir Percy's behavior was well nigh over the top, but how else would the brave baronet be able to fool society? He had to be absolutely sure that no one would even remotely suspect him as the Scarlet Pimpernel and Anthony Andrews pulled it off.

His ability to move back and forth between the seemingly clueless aristocrat and his many disguises (the last being my favorite, when he takes on his most dangerous rescue up to that point) without missing a beat was fun to watch.

I thought Jane Seymour did a first class job as the smitten Marguerite, though I had a hard time believing that she was the greatest actress in France. That wasn't her fault though, because there really wasn't much presented during the course of the movie to showcase the talent of Mademoiselle St. Juste.

The chemistry between she and Anthony Andrews was what made their part of the story so nice. They made the romance between this unlikely pair come to life and make it believable.

Ian McKellan's portrayal of Paul Chauvelin was wonderful. He presented the sort of villian that you would hiss and boo at in the theater and throw popcorn at the screen because he used any means at his disposal to get what he wanted. Even if it meant sending Marguerite's brother Armand to meet Madame Guillotine.

My only nit to pick about this movie was the fact that all the Frenchies had English accents. In an early sequence when Percy has called upon a nobleman and his family, I thought he was back in England and was surprised to find out that he had called on a French aristocrat. Small matter, that.

All in all, it's a fun romp with adventure, romance and heroes.

It is as good as I remember and there aren't many movies I can say that about.

Sink me, you won't be disappointed.