Liked the book by Peter Straub, but this piece of cinematic dog poo bears only a superficial resemblance to its source material. The plot apparently revolves around a haunting inspired by the murder of an innocent young British woman visiting New England. The woman, played ably by the wonderful Alice Krige, is murdered by four virginal townsboys, mostly provoked by their frustrated group lust for her and an episode of impotence by one of their number. Instead of claiming responsibility, they put her in her car and push it into a pond. Cut to fifty years later, as her murderers, now doddering old men, are dispatched one by one.

The flaw in this setup is that the four men, who call themselves the Chowder Society, deserve their fate. Instead of rooting for any of them, I found myself cheering for the "evil" spirit stalking them, hoping they would get theirs in the most hideous ways possible. The sheer decrepitness of the old fellows further exacerbates a sense of futility. How can there be any drama in the danger to their lives when they are all 80 years old and look ready for the glue factory before the ghost even returns for revenge? They've lived longer than most people do anyway. To make matters worse, they're all unlikeable. Rude, cowardly, self-important, argumentative.

Highlights of the film include: Cheesy, overly loud music at the scary parts, as if the viewer needs to be cued that it is time for them to feel frightened. Slime dripping out of phony looking ghost skulls. Far, far too many pandering shots of full frontal male nudity (including one long shot of a man plummeting nude to his death, complete with jiggling, shrunken genitalia). Undertones of hatred for women, their power and sexual mystique. An unlikely, last minute rescue, where one of the "protagonists" convinces police to wench the poor woman's car from an icy pond after fifty years. How exactly did they find it in the ice to get that wench on there? Would the old man have really been able to talk police into doing that in the middle of winter, and wasn't the old guy just in a car wreck five minutes earlier? Man! He's a real go-getter!

And liver spots. Lots of liver spots. Lots and lots and lots of liver spots.

My biggest fear, after watching this piece, is that the movie will come back to haunt ME!