I like the idea of season-by-season releases.  But in the case of "I Love Lucy" and a few other series ("The Mary Tyler Moore Show" and "All in the Family" spring to mind), this may not be the way to go.  Some of the greatest sitcoms in history had a rough start and took some time in the beginning to find their groove, but then really took off.  "I Love Lucy" is the perfect example.  This pioneer sitcom virtually invented the television sitcom genre.  When it started, they were doing things that are now standard in the industry, but had never done before: most notably, developing the three-camera technique for filming sitcoms in front of a live studio audience; before "I Love Lucy," other comedies were either aired live from New York or, as in the case of "Amos 'n Andy," shot on film with one camera (like a movie) without an audience.  So at the same time the crew behind this show (including star Desi Arnaz) were trying to invent and perfect the techniques for shooting a sitcom, the writers, director, and cast were trying to figure out how to create and develop sitcom plotlines and characters.  It was a daunting challenge because they really had nothing to go by.  They were entering unchartered territory.  And in the early episodes from the first season, this is evident.  The plots are often absurd, and the characters are roughly drawn and seem very cartoonish.

One issue with the plots is that the writers came straight over to "I Love Lucy" from Lucille Ball's 1948-1951 radio series, "My Favorite Husband."  They were inexperienced in television and apparently assumed that what worked on radio (like a wife half-heartedly disguising herself and fooling her husband) would work on television.  Often it didn't.  But they would soon learn their lesson.

By the time "I Love Lucy" returned for its second season, it seemed that all the creative talent behind the show -- the writers, the actors, the director -- had had some sort of epiphany.  The Ricardos, the Mertzes, even the minor players on the show, all played like real people, whereas they usually played like cartoons in the first season.  And the scripts had some basis in reality and no longer required viewers to completely suspend their disbelief:  there were no more six-foot loafs of bread popping out of the oven, no more icicles allowed to develop all over Lucy's body without a trip to the hospital, no more instances of Ricky deliberately electrocuting his wife.  The stories were now real.  The relationships were real.  You got the feeling the Ricardos and Mertzes truly did have a deep friendship extending back more than a decade.  The two marriages portrayed on this show seemed authentic.  With this believability underlying the comic brilliance of Lucille Ball; and the incredible chemistry between Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz, between Lucille Ball and Vivian Vance, and between Vivian Vance and William Frawley; plus the wonderfully inventive scripts, this show from the second season on was pure magic.

I am definitely buying the DVD packages for seasons 2 through 6 (I've purchases seasons 2 through 4 so far).  The episodes from the last five seasons are, for the most part, phenomenal.  But I'm still hesitating on the first season.  For the aforementioned reasons, I find much of the first season hard to watch and not funny.  For those who have never seen this show (if it's possible that such a person exists) and are questioning whether or not to buy a DVD of this show to check it out, my advice: start with the second season.  Do not even look at the first season until you have seen seasons 2 through 6.

My three star rating is for the fine job that's being done putting together this series, and for the outstanding efforts of those involved in putting this show together starting with nothing.  But for Season One, I have to make a deduction for the overall quality of the show because it had not yet become the classic we know it to be today.  The other seasons all deserve five stars.