Maybe I'm a dyed in the wool old cynic. Perhaps I have no sense of real drama. Or maybe my idea of a great love story is "Love Story". But for the life of me, I can not understand what all the fuss is about this sappy old melodramatic yarn. To start with the plot is about as unique as a three-horned unicorn...Boy from the wrong side of the tracks falls in love with a sophisticated upper-class society dame. He uses her to climb to the top of the ladder of his dreams and once he gets there, they both realize they have about as much in common as Abbott & Godzilla.

Really, is it me or doesn't it seem that this dime store romance plays on for a good two plus hours until you'd swear it takes up the better part of a whole day? The first half holds up pretty well...John Garfield struggling to raise above his grocery store humble beginnings, steadfastly clinging to his dream of becomming a concert violinist...Then his big break comes in the form of the wealthly society patron, Joan Crawford. The two engage in a verbal game of callous one-up-manship until she finally falls head over heels in love with him. She bestows him with lavish gifts and introduces him to the most influential people. She guides his fledgling career until he becomes the toast of the classical music world. But is  our boy grateful and dutiful to his patron? Of course not. For his one true love is his art. And like all true artists he cares nothing for fortune and fame, and less for the woman who made it all possible.

But wait, is it too late for him to redeem himself? Can he mend his ways and finally find true love and happiness in his benevolent benifactor? And can Joan Crawford, who has given up everything, her husband, her pride, even the bottle hold out long enough to fianlly have her man? Well I won't give anything away. All I can say is the final twenty minutes is so transparent, so predictable, that even Inspector Clouseau would know how it all ends. Watching the closing sequence of John Garfield performing his violin concerto, while Joan Crawford drowns her sorrow in a barrel full of booze is just too agonizing for me.

On a brighter note, the acting is top notch for these two bonified Hollywood legends. Even the supporting cast, Oscar Levant, Joan Chandler and J. Carrol Naish all contribute stalworth performances. The scenes of Crawford's fabulous Fifth Ave apartment are most elegant. The costumes are flawless and the black & white cinamatography is awesome. Even the music is wonderful. But unfortunately none of this can rescue a plot that is far too cliched, dialogue that is overly cynical, urbane and glib to be real and characters that seem lifeless and void of any true humanity. I'm sorry John and my deepest appologies Joan...But this just isn't one of your finer screen moments.