It's hard to believe that Spike Lee's movie Jungle Fever could be controversial,considering it was written and directed post 1990. Intimate interracial relationships should'nt shake anyone's apple tree but they do! Lee wisely chooses Wesley Snipes,an underrated actor who also underplays this role as the male love interest beautifully. Annabella Sciorra,a ravishing Italian american actress fills out the female end of the story playing Snipe's love interest. She's also underrated,having been in far too few films. This movie gave her something to sink her teeth into.The story begins with Snipes character,an architect successful yet frustrated with his employer but happily married to an african american woman.Being black himself,this is a pretty traditional union for two people of color. Enter Sciorra,an Italian american woman from a working class area of New York City(yes,Italian american in real life as well as her character)who lives with her father and two brothers. Sure,she has a white boyfriend but it's not a particularly passionate relationship;however,things really heat up for her and the architect when she gets hired as his assistant. At first he really does'nt want an assistant nor does he care for her. Still,he tells his boss that she can hang on there at the office anyway. A couple nights after she starts,they order chinese food after work and before you can say chopsticks they're getting very sweaty on his desk. This is a rare treat,one of the finest scenes of intimacy I have ever seen. So they continue to see one another in a clandestine fashion. A few weeks later,the cat is out of the bag and her brothers ans father find out about the affair. It takes a strong constitution to watch what ensues;her father works up a sweat too,but it's none too pleasant. He beats her and all fury breaks loose,because her racist family can't bear the thought of sister/daughter dating a black man. Spike Lee's direction is impeccable and his statement is powerful. Will they be able to continue seeing eachother? Does his wife know or care? Will Sciorra's character be staying with her family or is it time to move? Of course I won't tell what happens at the end but one thing's for sure,racism is alive and kicking today as it always has been.