The place and time:  Beijing, 2000.

Chinese professor:  Thank you so much for giving us those videotapes!  My graduate students and I watched three films in one day!

American:  What did you think of "The Ox-Bow Incident"?

Chinese professor:  Oh, it is a fine movie.  The English is so clear!  There's no slang and coarse language like in the modern American films.

American:  And the plot?

Chinese professor:  Yes, the film is about lynching!  We read in our history books about lynching in the United States!  The film helps us understand how lynching oppressed the people.

American:  Professor, this film is as much about lynching as "It's a Wonderful Life" is about banking.  The banking, the lynching -- they are just frames for the moral content of the films.

Chinese professor:  Oh ...

American:  It's about lawlessness, when people don't receive trials, but it's about a special kind of lawlessness.  Do you remember that as the posse rides off to find the rustlers, they all agree to "follow the will of the majority"?

Chinese professor:  Yes ...

American:  The members of the posse decided that they represented the people when they decided to hang the men they apprehended.

Chinese professor:  The people ... the majority ...

American:  Remember, the book was written in 1940 and the movie showed in 1943.  All the fascist dictators said they represented their people's will.

Chinese professor:  The war ...

American:  And Stalin murdered and purged and sent people to death in the Gulag before, during, and after the War.  Later of course, there were the Red Guards during your own Cultural Revolution, who said they were implementing the people's will as they humiliated or betrayed or killed even their own teachers or their own relatives.

Chinese professor:  For the people's revolution ...

American:  So while the movie's set in the American West, it's about the Cultural Revolution in China too.  And isn't it interesting that a movie about the Cultural Revolution was made 20 years before it happened?  Which means that the movie addresses something universal, something that can happen in any place, at any time.

Chinese professor:  Ahhh ...

American:  Which means that "The Ox-Bow Incident" is a film for Americans, and for Chinese, indeed for any people tempted to take shortcuts with the law.

Chinese professor:  Ahhh ... let me think about it.