This movie just blew me away the first time (of several) that I saw it. It has the compelling melodrama, themes, acting, and black and white cinematography of "Casablanca" (to which it is frequently compared), but a more intense love story (although not as poignant), and a supporting cast that is almost its equal. As most people know, the movie is very loosely based on Hemingway's book. (I agree with Hemingway, it's not very good. The book does get into issues of class and imperialism, as implied by its title, but the story just doesn't hold together well.)

The movie has several other parallels to Casablanca: The male bonding of Bogie (playing charter boat captain Harry Morgan) and Walter Brennan ("Eddie"), the "rummy" who takes a liking to Bacall's character after she zings right back at one of his word puzzles (just as Bacall's tough, streetwise character is more than a match for Bogart's cynicism and his "I don't stick my neck out for no one stance," as well as for the sexual competition of beautiful Helene de Bursac--played by Dolores Moran). Bogart does his signature "I'm going out of control here, there's no telling what I might do!," fake pose to freak out the Vichy authorities (played well--considering the dialogue they're given--by a sleek Sheldon Leonard and Walter Sande as "Johnson").  Hoagy Carmichael's turn as "Cricket," the saloon pianist, is excellent, he evinces considerable style and panache. He performs two memorable numbers; Bacall sings a sultry, teasing, "How Little We Know." (A film "secret"--completely false--is that a young Andy Williams dubbed Bacall's singing.)

The French freedom fighter ("De Bursac") that Harry Morgan sneaks into Martinique does not have any of the presence or credibility that Paul Henreid ("Victor Laszlo") shows in "Casablanca." Even Henreid seems initially out of place in the latter film, but at least he has the famous "Marseillaises" bar scene and the admiring eyes of Ingrid Bergman to cement his status as inspirational hero.  De Bursac's heroics are signaled only by his wounds from the bungled entry into Martinique, and by the lengths to which Bogart et al. go to secure him.

Production values also seem a bit on the cheap in this movie. For one thing, there aren't many settings. However, the bar and Harry's upstairs retreat, visited memorably by Bacall, are done very well.  More importantly, the ending is not as ambiguous and complex as in Casablanca. For that reason, this is ultimately not as great a movie as Casablanca, which has more inner conflict and a kind of thematic unity to it. Still, the film is incredibly satisfying, the relationships among Bogart, Bacall, and Brennan vivid and humorous, and the romance has considerably more heat.

CAST
Humphrey Bogart - Harry Morgan
Walter Brennan - Eddie
Lauren Bacall - Marie Browning (Slim)
Dolores Moran - Helene De Bursac
Hoagy Carmichael - Cricket
Dan Seymour - Capt. M. Renard
Walter Molnar - Paul de Bursac
Marcel Dalio - Gerard (Frenchy)
Sheldon Leonard - Lieutenant Coyo
Walter Sande - Johnson
Aldo Nadi - Bodyguard
Paul Marion - Beauclerc
Patricia Shay - Mrs. Beauclerc
Pat West - Bartender
Sir Lancelot - Horatio
Ronnie Rondell - Naval Ensign
Roger Valmy
George Suzanne
Kanza Omar
Oscar Loraine - Bartender
Harold Garrison - Black Urchin
Frank Johnson
Crane Whitley - DeGaullists
Marguerite Sylva - Cashier
George Sorel - French Officer
Emmett E. Smith - Emil, the Bartender
Pedro Regas - Civilian
Chef Joseph Milani - Chef
Louis Mercier - Gaulist
Maurice Marsac - Gaulist
Suzette Harbin
Elzie Emanuel - Child
Marcel dela Brosse - Sailor
Jean de Briac - Gendarme
Adrienne D'Ambricourt - Cashier
Jack Chefe - Guide
Eugene Borden - Quartermaster