I didn't initially expect much from this movie; the only thing that held out any hope for me was that it was being directed by Ang Lee.
This is a solid and well-done reinvention of the Hulk. Many moviegoers have complained about the slow start to action, or the focus on relationships and dramatic dialogue, but it strikes me that such people haven't really paid much attention to the original Hulk.
The Incredible Hulk was only partially about a Giant Green Behemoth who Breaks Things When He's Mad. It is, to a great extent, about people -- about the monsters that live inside all of us, about relationships going through change, about obsession, paranoia, fear, and anger. 
With this movie, we see the seeds of disaster sown early (by Bruce Banner's father, not coincidentally named "David Banner" -- the same name chosen for the scientist in the TV version), allowing for a typically comic-book origin that is, at least, a bit easier to swallow for modern day audiences than the original "exposed to Gamma Bomb radiation" -- and which, at the same time, preserves virtually all of the ESSENCE of the Hulk's origin. 
The CGI Hulk works wonderfully on the big screen; the small screen actually detracts somewhat from the experience. I'm not sure if it's showing up flaws that for some reason are less evident on the  movie screen, or if it's just that this, like Titanic's Big Sinking Ship scenes, is something that can't really be fully appreciated on anything that isn't Really Big itself.
I *CAN* (yes, can) understand why some people don't like The Hulk. Ang Lee uses many of the same atmospheric tricks he did in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. Many of his dramatics are keyed both to the concept of bringing a comic to life, and to maintaining an almost mystical, dreamlike atmosphere to the action. Thus some events don't *quite* make sense, but yet somehow work in the context of the movie. 
Overall the acting is better than one might have expected -- even if there were mediocre actors cast (I don't know how good most of the main cast normally are) Ang Lee has clearly driven them to give decent performances. Bana's Banner is a heck of a nice guy overall, just with more and more problems always coming to roost right on top of him. This is the way Banner has always been portrayed, and it works. The Hulk himself is given a fair amount of character through expression and action; one interesting point that viewers will note is that the Hulk does his level best to avoid hurting people, even when it seems that it would be a LOT easier to ignore that point and just get to the smashing.
Overall, a good movie. I enjoyed watching it several times.