It's Anime alright, but it isn't your typical Anime.  I would classify this under Classical Anime in a heartbeat but it also finds itself to be the first anime for most people.  Personally... it was my 4th Anime Movie.
Genre/Setting: Fantasy, Ancient Times surrounding the initial invention of the Gun and the mining of Iron.
Art Style, realistic and very beautiful, a worthy Masterpiece of art.  As you can tell i really enjoyed it.
Nudity: NONE... most anime has a little... even if it's a small insignificant scene it at least has something, but this anime... nope, not a thing.  A major reason it can be viewed with the entire family there.
Violence is low in comparison to other Anime.  But for the family scene, this Anime contains scenes of cartoon death, dismemberment and animal attacks.
It is the story of a young man who becomes cursed while saving his village from a demon.  The demon is actually a large Bore that became possesed by hatred when he was shot by a human.  The curse will spread throughout the young man's body until it kills him.  So, in the meantime he will journey to the heart of the evil behind the bore's hatred to learn for himself the truth "with eyes unclouded by hate", so that he may find peace.  From there the plot unfolds.
This is not a sword battle movie and though the image on the cover may appear like a lightsaberesque duel is taking place, i assure you it is not based on combat.  In fact the young man in the image rarely takes up his sword in any sort of battle... he's better with his arrows.  And as misleading as the Title may be, it does not have some sort of Helpless princess... Princess Mononoke is just a title given to the daughter of the wolf god.  The movie does have large animals who are like gods and even a forest god who reigns over all of them, but there is no preaching of this religion.
On the cast list are names like Claire Daines, Mimi Driver, Billybob Thorton, Gillian Anderson (who plays the role of the Wolf god, whose japanese voice is done by a really deep bass... kinda confusing).  With such names as these taking up the role then it's gotta have something in it right?  And i hear that it almost ran off with #1 movie in Japan, falling to the hyped up Titanic.  It is an anime that the entire family can enjoy and one that will remain classic to all Anime fans, casual and hardcore.  It was one of the first anime's my family saw, and trust me that the kids will love it... at least all the kids i know of have loved it.