One of my favorite films is STRICTLY BALLROOM.  The 1992 sleeper hit directed by Baz Luhrman is a gem. This was Luhrman's first feature film as director before going on to direct the hugely popular "Romeo + Juliet" and "Moulin Rouge." 
Luhrmann cleverly uses a documentary style opening and interludes which pull you into the film and make you quickly form bonds with the loveable characters on the way. The storyline follows Scott Hastings (Paul Mercurio), one of Australia's great hopes in the competitive world of ballroom dancing. Surrounded by dance, Scott's parents own a small dancing school, those around him live for the dream that Scott will win the Pan Pacific Championship trophy with dancing partner Liz (Gia Carides.) Surely the most enthusiastic for Scott to achieve ballroom greatness is his mother Shirley, a former dance champion herself, who's iron determination and fraught ambition fills the air with tension, very much the antithesis of her husband Doug who is timid and all but mute.  The road to starlight stardom is rocky for Scott who's passion for dance and natural talent means he wants to escape the strict rigours of the ballroom rules. Scott wants to dance his own steps - Scott is a rumba rebel. As those around him panic that he will be too individual for the rule-bound ballroom world, his chances of success seem distant as his regular dance partner leaves. There only seems to be one person who believes in Scott's vision, Fran the ugly-duckling dance pupil.  Fran's own love of dancing is equally as perplexing to her family. From a traditional Spanish family with strong dancing bonds they will not accept that ballroom is anything more than mickey mouse dancing, a mutilated form of 'real' movement.  
Ballroom dancing, a pastime that is ridiculed by many may not seem the obvious choice for a feature film, but "Strictly Ballroom" elevates it status to a new level.  One of humor and admiration. The film takes the sequins and dusts them with glitter. The dresses are flouncy, the hair is bleached and the tans are permaglow but it is done with such affection, such humor you know the director actually has the upmost respect for this dazzling community and takes that admiration and transforms the film into a small masterpiece.

Without doubt Paul Mercurio (Scott Hastings) has a wonderful and brooding presence throughout the film. Possibly not since John Travolta in Saturday Night Fever has a dancing man on screen set the heart fluttering as much.  Remarkably graceful, manly and sexy - here's a leading man you want to literally sweep you off your feet. He comes across with great passion. Tara Morice as Fran also turns in a superb performance. Thanks to careful direction and use of costume and make-up her transformation from ugly-duckling is not as crude as in so many other films, there's no stereotyped secretary with a bun and glasses scenario here. The whole character of Fran revolves around subtlety and growth with Morice brings across very well.  The supporting cast all deserve credit especially Scott's parents, Shirley played by Pat Thompson (Strictly Ballroom was her last film before her death) and Doug played by Barry Otto.  ntonio Vargas stars as Fran's father Rico and in reality is a well respected Flamenco dancer and actually worked as the dance trainer on the film.  
Films rarely come more feelgood than this. It is as happy and loud as the dancers sequined dresses. It is pure glitter on a the screen and a film to lift the spirits.  Highly recommended!