I am amazed that Hollywood can complain about bootlegging and movie pirating at one moment, and the next get away with a collosal ripoff of an acclaimed international success, stamp it unique and original, win several Academy Nominations, and give absolutely no credit to the source or inspiration of the film.

When, might you ask, has this ever happened? Not so very long ago actually. If one were to recall in 2006, a film entitled The Departed took the stage as one of the most successful box office hits in the world, grossing hundreds of millions of dollars, and jam-packed with an all-star Hollywood celebrity lineup.

Even reknowned critics at the time seemed oblivious to the fact that The Departed, directed by Scorsese, was in fact a blatant rehash of the Andrew Lau original, "Infernal Affairs". People who professed to know everything about films, hailed the movie as "another Scorsese achievement!"

Well, if all of Scorsese's other films were undisclosed remakes, then perhaps The Departed was an achievement. Putting integrity aside, the fact that he and his team got away with hundred of millions of dollars in revenue, and received some of the highest honors and most prestigious awards in the industry, all from a film largely adapted from another film, should certainly be considered an achievement of sorts, shouldn't it?

While I visualize the scene of this movie's inception in my mind, I can't help but be amused at how easily The Departed met with success. I imagine it happened something like this...

On one of Brad Pitt's whimsical excursions to the east, he sees Infernal Affairs for the first time. Next thing he knows, he's pitching the idea to Scorsese in the following paraphrase, "Hey Martin, I have this great screenplay I want to run by you." [Pitt summarizes the plot of Infernal Affairs, and Scorsese eats it up.] Then as an afterthought, Brad mentions the source of the idea. Scorsese reassures Pitt that noone would make the connection saying something like, "We don't really need to mention the original source. Hell, most people in this county wouldn't watch a foreign film if they were cast in it themselves." They both laughed at this... and kept laughing all the way to the bank.

Lately, Hollywood has been backing a string of Asian Market imitations or adaptations including, The Ring, The Grudge, Kill Bill (loosely adapted from Lady Snowblood), and yes, even the Lake House, actually derived from the Korean film, Il Mare. What does it say about the American Film Industry when many of our greatest modern film successes are based on original foreign screenplays? Well, firstly, it shows the world that Hollywood is getting short on ideas, and has little or no qualms about borrowing someone else's screenplay to compensate for its creative gap. Secondly, it reflects on the level of astuteness of the American audience -- that they know no better than to praise and endorse a film that has already been recently released in another country under a different name -- and finally the combination of these two things leads to the conclusion that we will continue to see many more of these foreign remakes to come. After all, if the money and public support is there, Hollywood directors and producers won't quit their [...] ways any time soon.

Although, I'd love to scream out to people, to go check out the foreign section of their local Blockbuster once in a while, with all my efforts, I can't possibly make everyone aware of what they are missing by limiting themselves to mainstream aisles. It's sad to see that Hollywood must thrive on this ignorance, but I can only hope that in the future, if I ever see a Kurosawa adaptation or remake, it won't be a Martin Scorsese and Brad Pitt production.