I can't tell you how excited i was to find this for 8.99 new at the mall. i also can't tell you how awesome movies look on my 42" lcd hdtv (thats a 16x9 ratio for the uninitiated) and upscaled on my xbox 360. what i can tell you is how dissapointed i am at the treatment this dvd got.

first of all, there is no 5.1 (or dts for that matter)mix, even though it says there is on the back of the box. its only dolby surround. "okay well thats not too big of a deal i said", and i hit play. then came the 2nd and worst thing that could possibly happen...the fox logo came up as the movie started, but at about a 6th the size of my tv. it lasted too long to be anything asthetic and then the movie started.

here's where i get mad. the movie is filmed in a 2:35:1 aspect ratio. (which for the layman, means it appears wider in scope, but at the expense of actual viewing space (ie bigger black bars on a standard tv). now on an hdtv this isnt too big of a deal (especially if the dvd is mastered anamorphically) because its already widescreen, so your black bars at a 2:35 ratio arent so bad (and are smaller). however it appears that the movie was mastered on the dvd in a 4:3 (standard tv size) box, with the bars as "part" of the actual movie.

basically its like someone took a widescreen VHS tape and dubbed it on a dvd. meaning:

(1) the movie looks about 6 times too small on my widescreen tv (its like this little rectangle surrounded by black bars)

(2)this is not actually widescreen and gives it a really bad bootleg look

(3) the resolution and detail of the dvd is absolutely terrible (ie vhs quality)AND i have to zoom the video TWICE to get it to fit on the tv, making the flaws of the already terrible transfer even more apparent.

this upsets me greatly because it is the "Special Edition". whats so special about it? but apparently all of the versions of this movie share the same flaws. the special dvd edition of "Aliens" (also by cameron) its fantastic and has none of these issues i describe to you now. i saw the movie awhile ago and i havent finished the "special" edition yet, but from what im reading from users on amazon, some "special" editions dont even have the extra 28 mins of footage even though they claim to on the dvd.

forgive the pun, but this and all dvd versions of the abyss are simply...abysmal