Okay, so you're obviously reading my reviews because you pay attention to the bad reviews as well as the good ones. So let me first clarify something to you. I am not an ultra conservative sheltered person who cannot watch ANY horror film... let alone 'The Devil's Rejects". I like my horrors (Seen hundreds and hundreds of them), and I like them gory, scary, exploitative, violent, full of sex, and sometime humerous...

BUT...

The Devil's Rejects has a fundamental problem. It staples the villains and the main characters together.... and glorifies thier sadistic actions as part of the story.

This is a movie about 3 vile murderers on the run from the law, and thier exploits along the way. ALong the way they pillage, plunder, torture, assault and murder... and to what end? what is the point?

And here's where the movie falls on it's face, there is no sufficient reasoning or backstory to explain or justify these highly unlikeable deplorable characters. If your main characters are also going to be the villains, then you need to at least empathise, understand or somehow like them. Not the case for Captain Spaulding plus two. These are vile dispicable scum that take up the better part of the film.

Now there are a few good parts. Thankfully the trigger happy police (and rightly so) are there to give these 3 a hard time, there's a very cool tough as nails cop who eventually captures the 3 and set out in delivering some vigilante justice. All good until he is 'removed from the picture' by ANOTHER member of the Firefly family. My heart sank... just when the film was starting to justify all the on screen barbarity... the hero is killed off.

And at the end of the film, thankfully the 3 vile criminals are shot dead by a police roadblock, though even this is done in a cinematic way as to glorify thier 'last run'.

The Devil's Rejects was rubbish. Unlikeable, unbelievable characters, pointless violence and torture, no humour or other redeeming qualities... it's just shock value for the sake of pointless shock value. Don't waste your time, there's are far better exploitation style horror films out there.