While there is a long history of Winnie the Pooh stories, both books and films, I have never had much exposure to the character as a child.  Created by A.A Milne, the first collection of stories was released in 1926.  Disney adapted Winnie the Pooh into short films in the 1960's with Winnie the Pooh and the Honey Tree and Winnie the Pooh and the Blustery Day.  When previews for the 2011 film were released, my wife became very excited as the Blustery Day was a childhood favorite of her's.  Most importantly, my one and two year old children seemed entranced by the music and animation.

In fact, this is the first film either of my children have been able to watch start to finish. The series features Christopher Robin and his imaginery stuffed animal friends and their adventures in the Hundred Acre Wood. Story wise we see Winnie the Pooh's search for Honey, Eeyore's search for a new tail, and the whole crew's search for a missing Christopher Robin - who may or may not have been kidnapped by a mysterious creature called a Backson.

The animation is absolutely beautiful. I'm a fan of Pixar movies like just about everyone else, but it is nice for a change to see a film that isn't CG.  The voice work is equally well done.  Jim Cummings, a voice actor I recognize from just about every cartoon I watched as child, is Winnie the Pooh and Tiger.  Late night host Craig Ferguson is Owl, a casting choice that seemed odd to me, but works very well.  Additionally, John Cleese does a fine job as the narrator.

Actress and Singer Zooey Deschanel sings several songs on the soundtrack, including the theme song.  My children have the soundtrack as well as the film, and it's a toss up as to which one they enjoy more.

There is a lot on films/shows for children that are very difficult for adults to watch.  This is not one of those films.  It's entertaining and heartwarming for people of all ages.  The set has the Blu Ray, DVD, and a digital copy.  There are a few special features available, but I felt it was a bit light.  I'm surprised older Winnie the Pooh films such as the Blustery Day weren't included, or released separately at the time of the release of this film.  Having never seen them, I would like to watch them with my children. This film is only an hour long, an appropriate length for a film that is intended for a young audience, but some additional content on the disc would have made the price tag on this set seem more reasonable, as this set was $25 - $30 when released.  Given the amount of content, $15 - $20 at most, would be better.