The Gran Torino, as a car, is a vivid symbol of a glorious past when the blue collar worker was economically well off and America, especially industrial towns like Detroit were prosperous. Clintwood shoots the film in Detroit in contemporary US with the auto industry down on its knees and where new immigrants have moved into the homes earlier owned by white Americans like Kowalski. Whatever the change in demographics, the basic problems of crime or gang warfare and territorial passions remain unchanged. The ethnicity may have changed, but the human condition has not. We see the slow evolution of Kowalski from a being an unabashed racist to a 'humanist' if I may use the word in context. With Clint Eastwood, violence remains as a constant -- something that does not change but has to be handled. And Kowalski is portrayed as a Korean war veteran whose been there and done that. Death is something that he has experienced first hand and I liked the poignant moment when he tells the priest that he knows very little of death. In fact, the hard life that he has experienced has brought a sense of irreverance to faith and religion. In fact in his stage of life, when the majority in his age group would gravitate towards religion, the opposite happens to Kowalski and it this is extremely well portrayed by Clint Eastwood. He would rather sort out the dilemmas of life himself than rely on a youngster just out of a seminary. To my mind, through this portrayal Eastwood is making a statement about religion and the intermediaries between man and God, who may not have the experience and judgment to advise as they do and about organized religion of all forms. In a completely stunning, well planned, meticulously thought out move, Eastwood uses death as a surprise. His meticulous and langorous planning for the grand finale (including the winding up of his affairs, leaving the dog at his neighbours and making peace with the priest, if not the almighty) and leaving the Gran Torino not to his grand daughter but to his new friends, not only speaks about what goes on in the community, but his own personal transformation as a human being and preparation for the final journey, when all worldly confusion has come to an end. I have watched all the movies that Clint Eastwood has made over the years. This one is outstanding, with the same kind of subtle acting that we saw in Bridges of Maddison County or A Million Dollar Baby. Arguably, this is his best as an actor. It is a complex piece of movie making made simple through that art of great story telling and a very sure and mature thought process. This is good old wine to be savoured and enjoyed.