Being a big Robert Rodriguez fan, Once Upon A Time In Mexico was a big thing for me having been a return from his departure to work on the Spy Kids series (which had most of his fans scratching their heads). However, my excitement did fade a bit in waiting, so I can say that going into the theater I was not expecting anything more than what Rodriguez has shown us he can provide in the past. Not that there is anything wrong with wanting to take a series installment into new territory but Once Upon A Time In Mexico had me looking back on Desperado and El Mariachi and wanting more of the same.
Rodriguez seems to want to pay homage to the great westerns yet veers from the base simplicity of those past milestones and throws everything in our faces, from political assasinations to complicated yet poorly thought-out doublecrossings. It builds up with such rapid incoherence that it's like the audience is having firecrackers thrown at them constantly. So constantly, in fact, that we loose the energy to piece it all together. Before half the movie is over, it's hard to care if the firecrackers go off. It would have been helpful if programs outlining the various characters and their intentions were handed out on the way into the theater.
Then there's the characters. And, boy, are there a lot of them. The problem is few of them are likable or even essential. Take for example, the Eva Mendes character who is thrown in only to give the Depp character trouble in a single scene later on. Or even Dafoe, a limitlessly-great actor, whose character here is so paper thin and one-dimensional that it is hard to believe what he saw in the script. Or any of the other big names here, for that matter. It's like a supergroup that just doesn't care. And I do not blame them. For as great as Depp is here as an actor, his character is so unlikable that any harm done to him is unaffecting. Thinking back, the only three likable characters I can find are the Mariachi, the President Of Mexcio and the ex-FBI agent. All three of these roles are played very, very well. But Rodriguez is too busy setting off firecrackers to show us even a few minutes of each. While in the other movies, the action centered around the Mariachi. Here, Banderas is wasted. Sure, he gets top billing. But he is standing in the shadows.
Which would lead to the action scenes. Are they good? Yeah. But they go nowhere near touching on the poetic versitility of the shootouts in the previous films in the trilogy. Here, El Mariachi looks like he is running out of ways to jump in the air and shoot guns. The violence is nowhere near as slam-bang but a mean-hearted nature is prevalent here. More innocents are killed for no reason than in the past two films. Take for example a scene where a charcter, on his way out of a restaraunt, walks through the kitchen and shoots the chef. The scene comes off in such bad taste that we wonder what has happened to Rodriguez. I suspect the audience was supposed to laugh but it just does not suit the flavor of the series or even the film it's in. In a Tarantino film, it would have been dynamite hilarity. Here, it's tragic, needless violence.
In the end, I think the proper way to wrap the trilogy should have been another town, another barfight, another cute girl. But Once Upon A Time In Mexico tries to be such an epic that it turns out like if Martin Scorsese or Paul Thomas Anderson got together to do a mediocre action flick.