First, please let me vent about all the negative comments that have been posted here.  Folks, you are either spoiled by mindless TV entertainment or just plain blind not to realize the truthfulness, educational and moral value of the "March of the Penguins"!  To the ones who wanted to see "all those little cute penguins", you are better off spending your money here: (...)  As for the viewers who were appalled by "violence, death and gloom", I just would like to remind that this movie first and foremost is a DOCUMENTARY, and all documentaries strive to portray the reality as it is - naked and truthful - applying, of course, a certain artistic touch.  And the truth is that these penguins do die, stay hungry for month, freeze, and suffer, while pursuing the most fulfilling reward of their existence - bringing up a new life.  I don't want to start a sermon here, but I hope I don't need to remind you that life IS often painful and tough, full of its challenges, hardships and sacrifices.  Every one of use is hopelessly lost unless we find that ultimate prize that would make it "all worth it".  And for many people this ultimate prize is not glory, fame or fortune, but simply finding a true love, bringing up a new life, and working on a lifelong family happiness together.  Is this only me, but it seems that the number of these people is growing smaller and smaller with every year? Which brings me to my main thesis: we, humans, have a lot to learn from these penguins!
I understand that for some children a few moments of this movie may seem extremely sad and unfair, but that's where good parenting should step in, and explain how the real world works!  And don't be ashamed at the end to rejoice together with victorious birds and celebrate the triumph of love and life!  One of the images that I will always remember is the portrait of the penguin mother, father and their child, both of the parents with curved necks gently touching each other, and an innocent chick between them chirping and flapping its small wings.  After seeing what they all had gone through, this moment was simply immortal in its beauty!
So, if this movie doesn't inspire you and your kids to become better persons, appreciate the relative comfort of your existence, and pursue more meaningful goals in your lives, then perhaps you need to check for any "irreparable harms to the psyche" that had already occurred in your past.
Oh, just FYI, I am in my mid 20s, married, agnostic and no, didn't have too much to drink tonight.  March on!