That is the question!

I will begin on a positive note and say I can really see the passion and effort the creators put into this project. The bad news however is what came from it on the "silver screen". I guess I should be proud to say that I made it through the 107 hideous minutes it took to tell this convoluted mess of a story about two "Valley girls", their flame thrower and monster car.

Please understand that I love it when a director takes a huge gamble and "pushes the envelope". So much of today's best cinema experience can be found in small foreign/independent ventures ("Rare Exports: A Christmas Tale") as opposed to these bloated major-movie-house sequels ("Transformers").  But they make multi-millions and as long as the wolves smell the sheep's "green" blood they will continue to get made.

And this leads me to the "crux" of the issue with these movies. I say "Bellflower" was painfully bad. Others say it was the "Best Movie of the Year". Only time will tell. I remember when movies like "2001: A space Odyssey" (1968) or "Blade Runner" (1982) came out and people thought they were crap. Now they're always in the "Top 25 Best Science Fiction" movies list. I remember when John Carpenter's "The Thing" (1982) came out and it was described as a "pornography of gore" by one main stream movie reviewer and yet today some feel it's a cult classic.

Reference the other end of the spectrum. I remember buying some peace-of-mind (with the wife) by watching "Shakespeare in Love" (1998). This movie won 7 Oscars (including "Best Picture of the Year"), 3 BAFTA's (including "Best Picture of the Year"), 3 Golden Globe awards and finally 2 SAG's. Today, this atrocity is almost always #1 on the "Worst Best Picture of the Year Awards" listing's.

Does anybody remember the revolutionary "Cloverfield" (2008)? If you are one of the lucky you will have missed those 86 marvelous minutes. A director once said that when he sits in on an advance screening and the people applaud the monster, he knows he screwed up. But it was the "trending" rage there for a fleeting moment. Now it is nothing more than a "stepping stone" in the great pantheon of film making?

"Dark Star" (1974), "A boy and his Dog" (1975), "Mad Max" (1979), "Repo Man" (1984) "El Mariachi" (1992), "Being John Malkovich"(1999),  "Memento" (2000), "Southland Tales" (2006), "I Sell the Dead" (2008), "The Warriors Way (2010)".......unique creative cinema, painful enema.....or cult classic?

Time will tell!