It's compelling to think about why Van Sant would remake a film like  Psycho--one with a devoted and vociferous fan base, acclaimed as a  masterpiece of its genre. What could he do right--or better? As his reward:  the increasingly out-of-touch Leonard Maltin describes the film as a  pointless, tainted insult, a view shared by most critics and fans. The film  sputters at the box office and encourages only meagre discussion of its  fantastic premise--why would anyone do this?

 I tried to look at  this movie with new eyes but found that impossible--inevitably I compared  it not to the original Hitchcock "Psycho" (which I admit to not  remembering well), but to the ideal (albeit completely fabricated)  masterpiece of moviemaking suspense "Psycho!" I had constructed  in my mind out of 5-star reviews, "10 Best" lists, and hyperbolic  exclamatory pullquotes. Nothing can compare to the cinematic perfection I'd  conjured up against Gus Van Sant, Anne Heche, and particularly Vince  Vaughn. This remake was a disaster. Heche, maddeningly unavailable, wears  psychedelic cutey-pie dresses; Vaughn masturbates (complete with  "slapping" sounds) to the hole in his parlor wall; we see a  boobie(!); modern devices aplenty! Some of the holdovers from the original  seem anachronistic and quaint (the voiceovers in the car as Heche drives  away, the broad "holy cow" face her boss makes when he notices  her on the street), suggesting that the actors and the filmmakers struggled  under the greatness of the original structure.

 But how very  modern. How very acute we are to find an insult in a tribute. How subtle we  are to scoff at hucksters and showmen. As one movie fan said of the  original, "You have to give it a chance, and if your not easily scared  don't think it will scare the pance off you. AND SEE THIS BEFOR THE  REMAKE." Credit Saul Bass for a well designed movie, but this is the  only version of Psycho I own. It's my Psycho, and it's an appropriate  Psycho. Van Sant should remake it every 15-20 years for the rest of my  life.

 For those who care, the DVD looks and sounds great.