Those three words pretty much sum up the entire film. Delightful for both adults (even those without kids), teenagers, and children alike. Magical in its setting, telling, and plot. Rare in its innocent, but complex and far from sugary tale.

Based on the novel, "The Secret of Ron Mor Skerry," this film is set in post-war Ireland it tells the tale of Fiona, a little girl with three older brothers and a widower father. Before WWII, the family had lived a pastoral life on the islands to the west of the mainland. Right before they were evacuated, Fiona's mother died, leaving a newborn brother behind. But as the family prepared to leave the island for good, Jamie, in his little cradle boat, was swept off the beach and into the waves in a freak storm. Fiona's father and brothers race in a row boat to find him, but the cradle is carried away at an unnatural speed and little Jamie is eventually lost in the storm.

And so the family goes to the mainland. Fiona and her brothers move to the city, where her father and brothers work in a laundry. With little time to care for her, her father sends Fiona to his parents on the coast.

It is from her grandparents and her cousin Eamon that Fiona hears the tales about her family, some taller than others. And so she is immersed in the mythology surrounding her family and the sea.

I won't say more. Suffice to say that seals and magic and going backward to go forward are involved. You'll have to watch it for yourself to see the real magic in it.

The cast is amazing, all Irish, if I'm not mistaken. Down to the last actor, they give good, solid, and believable performances. Many children's films are cursed by either bad acting or bad scripts, The Secret of Roan Inish has neither. And so it becomes more than a children's film. The magic is not the wave-of-the-wand kind, nor the kind that comes with a puff of smoke. It's the old kind of magic in fairy tales and legends.

I think I love this film because there are no "bad" parts; no parts I ever want to fast forward through or skip because they are cringe-inducing or "scary." I love every second of this film. And I think you will, too.