I have heard the complaint that Emma Thompson was too old to play Elinor.  Incredible!  With the abundance of 50+ male actors playing action leads, I find this type of criticism out of place!  I liked Thompson's version of Elinor because I have never met an eighteen year old with the good sense that Elinor had.  It made sense to have Elinor a little older, because she is so wise, so practical, so insightful that no teenager could possibly display all those things.  I felt that this "Elinor" was a close friend.  I have always admired the Elinor character from the book because to live life, you can't always say or express what you really feel - it's not expedient.  Many times pure emotion makes a bad situation worse.  Elinor knew that.  She felt all that Marianne felt; however, she knew her actions would adversely affect other people and could worsen the situation.  She acted accordingly.  She used her head, but she did not lack heart.  Thompson conveys all this extremely well.  On a scale of 1 to 10, Emma Thompson receives a 10 from me.

Kate Winslet was a tremendous Marianne.  Marianne was as an idealist, yet comes to learn that realism too has value.  She learns there should be a time for both things in life.  Winslet portrayed Marianne's coming of age beautifully.  Marianne realizes that more than attraction is needed in marriage; friendship, respect and esteem are what make a person endure through life's hardships; that is what makes a relationship last.  This fact was very well presented in Winslet's performance.  Another 10.

I enjoyed Hugh Grant's performance as Edward.  Grant did not play Edward as a weak man; he played him as a mild, honorable man who had made a bad decision and was paying the consequences of that bad decision.  Well done.

I have never seen anything done badly by Alan Rickman yet, and never hope to.  His adaption of Colonel Brandon was excellent.  He played a man who had faced a great deal of disappointment in life, and yet, was not left bitter by it.  When he saw Marianne's idealism, he remembered his idealistic days and loved her for her possession of that quality.  I think that's terribly romantic.  Rickman did it well.

Imogen Stubbs was excellent as the nasty Lucy Steele.  It must have been an incredibly fun part to do!  Sly, malicious little devil!

Now about what I didn't agree with in the film.  I do not understand why the scene between Willoughby and Elinor during Marianne's illness never takes place in this movie!  It's pivotal in the book.  It explains so much!  Ten minutes should have been added to the movie.

Also, Lady Middleton should have been left in the script.  She rounds out the cousins that are well meaning, but difficult to live with.  She is also the driving force behind having Lucy stay at the Middleton's country home and bringing Lucy to town.

However, the movie was a very good one and should receive high accolades from all.  The casting was excellent, the acting was of high quality, and the direction well done.  Buy the movie, it's worth it!