Just for clarification, I am writing a review of the 2 disk Bluray 50th Anniversary Edition only and not the box set.

I just watched this film for the first time, and I must say... How did I not know about this great film?
I am still a college student, so most of my friends prefer movies more in the "popcorn flick" style, but I have always been a fan of classics. This is probably one of the more understated classics, as I discovered it on a Bluray sale on Amazon and had never heard of it before. After a little research on ye olde Rotten Tomatoes and a few other reviews, I just went for it, and I am glad to now have this as part of my collection.

STORY

The story takes place in biblical times and covers Ben-Hur, a Jewish prince who grew up with the childhood friend, Messalla, who went on to join the Roman empire, and you can probably already guess that there would be conflict there. It is sort of a classic tale of revenge and forgiveness, and that is probably all I want to reveal.. I hate spoilers. I will say that the movie advertises as being a Christian film, which it is in a way, but not really "in your face" about it. You do see Jesus, but it is filmed in a very classy manor and leaves some mystery behind who Jesus actually was, instead focusing on Ben-Hur, his family, and his arch-nemesis, Messalla.

There are some amazing scenes in this film, including the infamous chariot race, and another one of my personal favorites, the battleship scenes.

All that said, the film is quite long at over 4 hours, and I recommend watching it in two sittings, stopping at the intermission.

Bluray

The Bluray was done VERY well. You can tell that this is a complete restoration, and I read that they spent a LONG time restoring it cell by cell from the master film reel. It shows. The picture is amazing. There were a few hiccups throughout the film, likely where the master film had to be spliced, but it is nothing major. This is probably the only way to watch this film anymore, as I am sure any previous versions pale in comparison.

Please note that the only extras included are an audio commentary and two trailers, as well as a separate music track. If you are looking for extras, you are going to want to splurge on the boxed version.

Overall

To sum up my review, this is a great film. It is a little long and a little drawn out at parts, but some of these scenes are just unspeakably good.