Most TV shows are medical, legal and crime related shows. Some of those shows are good and some are bad but those genres are sometimes tiring to constantly see on TV. Friday Night Lights is only one of a few drama shows that is different. I have been a fan of Friday Night Lights since season 1. The show is not entirely about football and it's teen characters and storylines are well crafted. Season 2 of the show was a bit of a decline from season 1 and season 2 didn't get a proper ending because of ratings decline and NBC refusal to order at least 2 episodes after the end of the writer's strike. After the writer's strike ended most network shows filmed at least two to three episodes. FNL didn't.

The production costs deal between NBC and DirecTV saved the show. Season 3 was better than season 2. In season 3 the pressures of overbearing football pushing parents, conflicts of interest in public schools, teen sex and teen characters trying to prevent themselves from living impoverished lives in the future and dealing with family changes gave the show good story material. The characters on FNL are people that TV audiences can relate to more than some characters on other TV shows. Matt Saracen is a teenage boy neglected largely by his parents but he rarely feels sorry for himself and focuses on making the best of his situation while dealing with a grandma inflicted with dementia. You won't find a teenage boy being a caretaker to an ill relative on other shows like The O.C., One Tree Hill, or 90210. Tyra Collete is a troubled teenage girl wanting to make a life better for herself and not end up like her mother or sister. She has her flaws but later redeems herself. Buddy Garrity and his daughter Lyla are two characters getting a taste living on limited means after losing their wealth. The anchors of the show are Eric and Tami Taylor a couple doing their best in their public school related jobs to help teenagers and the community. Kyle Chandler and Connie Britton have done Emmy nod worthy work since season 1 but they are continually snubbed by the Emmys in favor of actors and actresses that are on highly rated TV shows. As another reviewer pointed out FNL has won awards that Emmmy winners rarely or never receives and the AFI declared the show culturally significant in 2007. The show will likely end in season 5 but it will end as one of the most unique shows ever on TV.