This one places very highly on my short list of the very best horror films of the seventies.  Like many others who've shared their memories of Jessica here, I was first introduced to her at the local theater in my small hometown of Rock Hill, South Carolina.  And what a theater it was!  I saw Blacula there; Count Yorga, Vampire; Those films' sequels, The Return of Count Yorga and Scream, Blacula, Scream!; The Abominable Dr. Phibes (ditto); Sugar Hill (and her Zombie Hit Men!); Trog; and Night of Dark Shadows.  GP-rated horror films of the seventies were fierce, and the MPAA was far more lenient content-wise than they are with todays' PG-13 rated fare.  They were also scarier, and Let's Scare Jessica to Death was (and is) one of the scariest.

Of all these movie memories, I remember Jessica most fondly.  I've tried to intellectualize this attraction over the years, telling myself perhaps it was the film's lack of a camp aesthetic, so prevalent in many other horror films released at the time.  Or maybe it was the sturdy bridge it seemed to form between the new "modern"  approach so in vogue at the time, which eschewed a gothic sensibility in favor of "harder" films like Last House on the Left (also filmed in Connecticut)and the more genteel horrors of Hammer.  It was a bridge I willingly crossed.  More than anything else, however, I've come to believe my love for Let's Scare Jessica to Death is rooted in the character of Jessica herself.  For the first time in horror cinema, I saw a real human being, a damaged soul laid bare.  Jessica's vulnerability, her desperation for others to believe that she's recovered and is now well, her fear of death (after reading an epitaph she's copied from a tombstone with wax paper, her husband Duncan tells her, "...You're getting better already.") render Jessica very susceptible to the seductive charms of the vampiric Emily.  Although not explicitly stated in the film, it's strongly inferred that Jessica attempted suicide prior to being sent away.  Thus, Jessica's seduction by Emily  can be read as an attempt by death to reclaim what it had nearly collected earlier.  Emily's command for Jessica to "Stay", as she rises from her watery grave to embrace her (in the film's scariest scene), is terrifying because we know that, repulsed by Emily's affection though she may be, Jessica feels the sweet allure of the siren's call.  She's flirted with death before.  Further, the mole that Jessica and Duncan find is a clever symbol for Jessica herself--a delicate creature found rooting around in a graveyard, dwelling below the surface, digging, prying into places it doesn't belong.  It's fate isn't surprising.

Poetic, symbolic, subtle and ultimately chilling, Let's Scare Jessica to Death was inspired by Romero's Night of the Living Dead and Herk Harvey's Carnival of Souls, yet for me remains more potent than those two classics , containing imagery as frightening as any I've seen in any other horror film.  Anchoring the imagery is Zohra Lampert's incredible performance as Jessica, one of the strongest in the history of horror cinema, perhaps even eclipsing the descents into madness displayed by Catherine Deneuve in Polanski's Repulsion and Daria Nicolodi in Mario and Lamberto Bava's Shock (Beyond the Door II).  When you add in the mesmerizing effect of the score (and the creepy song which Emily sings at the dinner table on Jessica's first night in their new home--a song I'm almost ashamed to admit I hum to myself with some frequency), Jessica's soliloquies ("It's blood, Jessica...Blood!"), and a deceptively peaceful, sun-dappled, autumnal mis en scene, you have a horror film quite unlike any other.

  Paramount's DVD release offers a nice transfer but nothing more.  If they were aware of the power of this subtle gem, they'd have bestowed it with supplemental material such as a trailer and commentary.  Regardless, this is a required viewing for horror film fans.