Thanks all below! Reading many of the impressively insightful reviews was fascinating and has given me some interesting facts and new perspectives of The Wild Geese, one of my favorite films. 
I first saw WG at 13 yrs and aside from the memorable opening credits and fantastic title theme ('Flight of the Wild Geese' composed & performed by Joan Armatrading) I was particularly drawn by the merc. characters, esp. Burton's Faulkner and Harris's Rafer Janders.
Seeing the film again recently I'm glad to say not much has changed. Both were such commanding actors at their most charismatic and, backed by an enigmatic support cast, somehow you forget the age barriers, a rather poor fist half-hour (with its unnecessary sub-plot involving Moore) and the reasonably limited script. 
I'm no action junkie but WG offers plenty. Once in the bush a nice high body count is rapidly achieved by all manner of consistently good fire-fight spectacular and most importantly, without compromising either the plot's plausibility or the realism of the action - something that people like myself demand. 
Who can forget watching as the troop plane that is scheduled to extract them, turns and takes off again right past them; or that fighter diving out of nowhere down the dry river bed and strafing the bridge to bits; Frank Finlay's missionary working out in the sticks, disgusted with the 'murdering pig' Faulkner to whom Burton retorts '...I don't have time to discuss my finer points with you now...'!!!. And inevitably, the old Dakota turning and heading down the strip leaving Rafer further and further behind as the advancing Simbas invade the runway' 
Though I like this film very much I do admit there are flaws and many of these have been accurately noted by previous reviewers. But judging by most films of this ilk it's clearly not easy to make a decent MERC flick and WG is surely the king of its genre. Not PC? Who gives a stuff. I will definitely be purchasing a copy of Daniel Carney's book. It's such shame the likes of Burton, Harris and Granger are now gone forever.