I really hate this movie! As a huge Gojira fan, I felt VERY disappointed. Not only that, but as a film in general, it's almost completely, terrible...the script, the acting\dialogue, characters, creature design...the special effects (while not great) are probably the only good thing.

First off, Roland Emmerich\Dean Devlin (Independence Day) turned down the offer to direct the film a few times, simply because they had no interest\knowledge with the Godzilla franchise.

They wanted re-tell the story, with a re-designed beast (by "Face Off's" Patrick Tatopalous), which is basically, a giant iguanna (as shown in the opening credits) and not a terrifying, powerful-mutated dinosaur.

This "Godzilla In Name Only" (aka "GINO") barely resembles it's Japanese beast (besides the dorsal fins and re-sampled Godzilla roar). In fact, it runs away from the military and hides! And for some reason, it can't out-run a taxi cab! Not to mention, it uses "breath" for one sequence, but it's no radioactive. And...it's asexual and lays a bunch of eggs to which they hatch, giving way to a rip-off Velociraptor-like scene from Jurassic Park.

I mentioned the acting\dialogue was crappy, right? Mathew Broderick, Harry Shearer, Hank Azaria, Maria Pitillo (cute, but annoying) and Jean Reno (yes, the "Professional" Jean Reno), to name a few, are all bad in their roles, but I blame the script\directing more, than the actors (but Maria and Mathew really hurt the film). Oh and there are two characters, based on Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert, that were put into the film, as somekind of "payback" by Roland\Dean for the bad reviews of Independence Day (yet, the critics aren't killed by GINO).

The script\story is just awful. I can't believe Tristar greenlighted this. Dean Devlin and Roland Emmerich should be ashamed and deserve all the negativity about this film. Its a disgrace to Toho, the Godzilla franchise and Godzilla fans.

I'm hoping that Gareth Edwards and WB\Legendary Pictures will make a TRUE American Godzilla remake. "Monsters" was not very exciting, but at least Gareth has stated that he loves Godzilla movies and promises to make the "right" remake.

BTW, watch "Godzilla: Final Wars" for a special, brief cameo by GINO : )