HALLOWEEN: RESURRECTION (2002)
Being a horror fan, I found Halloween: Resurrection to be quite disappointing. This definitely surprised me because when it comes to movies I'm usually not too hard to please. Unfortunately, I even found it hard to enjoy this purely on an entertainment level. Its flaws were just too big to ignore.
Other than Sara (Bianca Kajlich), the characters are basically just throwaways that range from stupid to annoying to stupid and annoying. This is certainly not a good combination, even if we are used to seeing them in countless other horror flicks. You know who's going to die from the minute they appear on the screen, and being that you just don't give a damn about these characters it's hard to care when they finally do bite the knife. Michael Myers is a cool horror villain but watching him kill one annoying character after another just isn't as much fun as it sounds, it actually gets a little boring. 
It's really sad what a badly edited mess this turned out to be. It's also too short, which might actually be a good thing considering the final product, but being that not much happens during the movie I would have liked it to have been a bit longer. I could almost cry over what an unworthy sequel this became. I was expecting quite a bit from it but not even my lowest expectations were met. 
The acting was pretty mediocre all around, with the best coming from Bianca Kajlich and the worst from Katee Sackhoff. Now it's not that her performance was that bad, but her similarities to Tori Spelling were enough to send chills up my spine. From her looks to her acting, Katee Sackhoff could be Tori Spelling's twin, in fact, if I didn't know any better, I'd think it was Tori Spelling. Also, Tyra Banks really got on my nerves. The characters that her and Busta Rhymes play have got to be two of the worst reality show hosts ever. They never pay attention to anything that's going on which left me yelling at the screen. 
Overall, Halloween: Resurrection does nothing but continue the trend of making a scary villain un-scary. Maybe the next Halloween should concentrate more on atmosphere than death scene after death scene. It's not that this can't be cool or anything, but it's just not that exciting when you've seen it a million times before. Anyway, despite its bad editing and numerous plot holes, Halloween: Resurrection is still an ok way to kill some time. It certainly looks great and has some of the best cinematography I've ever seen in a slasher flick. As a Halloween sequel it's certainly a disappointment, but if you're able to ignore its many flaws then you may just enjoy it. All I can say is better luck next time.
Grade: 6/10 or C+ or *** of *****