First, I would like to say that these cartoons do have English language voice tracks (I couldn't find that information anywhere when I was shopping).  On to the actual review...

Initially, I was disappointed with this cartoon series.  The voices of the female protagonist and the main antagonist are brazen and irritating (although you do get used to them).  The plot is slow to develop, and the first few episodes consist primarily of an unpleasant little girl proclaiming "I hate it here!" in response to various oddities.

However, the episodes become more interesting as the series progresses.  Characters are actually given obstacles to overcome, and personalities become multidimensional.  There is some element of intrigue among the enemies, and much mystery surrounding the main characters.  Humor blossoms from the characters' burgeoning humanity, and suddenly all the elements of a compelling story are present.

Patience, however, is still required.  Those of you have played final fantasy will recall the long animations associated with each summon monster.  Summon monsters play an important role in this cartoon series, and the drawn-out animations become repetitive.  Moreover, the character who uses the summon monsters recites a tedious incantation before each use.  (You'll have the phrase "soil is my power!" stuck in your head after a few episodes.)  These repetitive interludes did not ruin the cartoons for me, however.  I kept my perspective by reminding myself that commercial breaks are longer and more irritating, and I have in the past watched many shows with commercials.

Some viewers have complained that this series is untrue to the Final Fantasy label, but (thematically speaking, at least) I would strongly disagree.  The themes of friendship, teamwork, and self-sacrifice that pervade the Final Fantasy series abundant; expect touching gallantry and heartbreaking martyrdom.  Also present is the age-old theme of history recurring in immutable cycles.

Some questions in this series do remain unanswered at the end (of course I won't spoil it with details here!), which is slightly disappointing.  I feel the series is less thorough than the games in "tying up loose ends".  However, there are enough interesting plot twists toward the end to keep the viewer's interest.  I genuinely believe those who are patient enough to watch the whole series will be glad that they did.