Let me first say that 'Jackie Brown' is an incredible film. It has unique, textured characters and features great performances by everyone in the cast (most notably Pam Grier and Robert Forester). When the film was originally released, many displayed satisfaction over this film not being 'Pulp Fiction', which is unfortunate because that is part of what makes this film so good. The brilliance of 'Pulp Fiction' is built on with this effort, not diminished by trying to rehash what Tarantino did before.

 What Tarantino did was take a story that could have been a plot-driven, catchy, cool-looking heist film, and instead made an interesting character film with a heist going on in the background. The movies slow and deliberate pacing was another one of the complaints some had, but go back and watch these opening scenes and the "slow moments" of the film after having viewed the film. What one will find are characters literally living on the screen. These "pointless" scenes are the frame for the action (the heist); they subtly show us everything we need to know to understand these characters and their motivations. If one can complain about anything in the film, it is that the film is too thorough (and this could be a worthy argument, although I disagree).

 Characters: This is really Quentin's great talent. Sure, there's no question about his knack for writing dialogue, but the dialogue works for two other reasons: 1) the characters are so strong, 2) the acting is so good. His talent really is in making the characters and in the way he tells the story through them. This film could have been driven by the heist plot and been a great film. But what Quentin achieved here, to me, was both refreshing and unexpected. Watching it now, after having viewed the 'Kill Bill's and having seen 'Jackie Brown' a number of times, I can appreciate some of the things I missed when I first watched this film upon its original release in 1997.

 This is definately a film that grows with time. There is so much in these characters that each subsequent viewing is a delight.