This review is partly in reponse to the review by "Technopagan."

The first DVD release (2000) of Natural Born Killers is in the original theatrical aspect ratio.  The problem with the original DVD release is that it is not enhanced for widescreen TVs (i.e., anamorphic).  This means the film was encoded on the DVD to display within a 4:3 shape using letterboxing on the top and bottom to preserve the proper aspect ratio of the film.

(Sidenote: That does NOT mean it is a full-frame version with the top and bottom cut off to fake a widescreen image. That is an entirely different issue misunderstood by consumers who don't understand the way movies are filmed.)

Non-anamorphic DVDs appear fine on a regular TV, but they were not designed with widescreen TVs in mind.  They appear "stretched" horizontally.  Most widescreen TVs have modes to squish or stretch the image into the proper shape, but the results are never satisfying.

In the early days of DVD, non-anamorphic DVDs were common since consumers did not yet have widescreen TVs.  I know this because I've had a DVD player since late 1997 and a widescreen display since 2003.  Anyone who buys a widescreen TV will soon discover a few of these "not enhanced for 16x9 displays" DVDs in their existing collection.

By the time Natural Born Killers (NBK) was finally released on DVD in 2000, it was inexcusable to make it non-anamorphic.  To add injury to insult, it was released again almost exactly a year later as part of the "Oliver Stone Collection" and enhanced for widescreen TVs.  My only conclusion is that they knew they would re-release it and wanted to give people even more reason to buy (or rebuy) the newer disc.

Indeed, the "The Oliver Stone Collection" release is the version you should buy, especially if you have a widescreen TV or plan to get one eventually.

In sum, in both versions you see the film as it was shown in the theater.  The only problem is that the first release was not designed with widescreen TVs in mind.