All three of the films in this series are fascinating in their own way, and I would most definitely recommend them, since they are far and away superior to most of what you'll find either on disc or the screen these days.  I do have to say this, however:  the trilogy was not the masterpiece I'd hoped and been led to expect it would be.

First, the positive elements:  rare is the time you will ever find a trilogy where so much work and attention have gone into *all three* films.  None of these films is a "sequel" (and though there is a "wrap up" of sorts at the end of *Red*, you really could watch them in any order, which in itself is quite neat).  Also, Kieslowski has to be one of the most *awake* directors in the history of cinema--every single scene in each of his films is a carefully prepared canvas, with every detail well worth examining and all the backgrounds worth paying attention to (so be sure to see these films on DVD and with a nice-quality screen in front of you).  You'll almost feel as if you're breathing the very air of Paris, Geneva, and Warsaw, so vivid and compelling are the settings.  Finally, the acting in all three of the films is uniformly expert and fantastic.

Nonetheless, I have finished my first viewing of the trilogy (and I saw it in this order: BRW) with a somewhat empty and even slightly cheated feeling.  For one thing, I can't help but think that the "color concept" becomes over-determining and distracting.  I wish Kieslowski had spent more time exploring the characters and (particularly in the case of *White*) making the storylines less contrived rather than trying to "create so many cool color connections" (that's the only way I can put it) on the mere surface of the screen.  Colors in their most primary form are simplistic symbols rather than meaningful expressions, and they are used far too often throughout these films merely as eye-candy.  One has to admit, however, that without the color gimmickry, this trilogy would not have become so well known.

Of the three, *White* is the one I watched most recently and am most disappointed by.  Zamachowski's performance is perfectly executed, but his character (Karol Karol) is one that we've seen performed by Dustin Hoffman countless times before (Zamachowski in fact looks so much like Hoffman that I almost want to call his character in this film "Kramer Kramer").  Actually, the entire storyline of *White* is built on shockingly unoriginal cliches and over-used plot devices (the hapless fool who turns out to be capable of building a corporate empire overnight; the world weary acquaintance who first seeks his own death then learns to love and embrace life; the faked funeral where the "dead" can witness the reaction of the grieving; the whole "turning of the tables," etc.).  The weakest element of the film turns out to be the role of Dominique (played by Julie Delpy, who deserved a much better part than this), whose shallow and simplistic character belongs on the pages of a comic book rather than in a Kieslowski film.  In general, there's a decided lack of psychological verity to *White*.

*Blue*, by great contrast, spends most of its time trying to penetrate the mind and soul of Juliette Binoche's character.  The story of this film is also quite contrived--but its atmosphere, mood and ambience more than compensate.  For what it's worth, Kieslowski also does "cooler" things with blue than he does with the other two colors.

As for *Red*, while it may be the most perfectly executed of the three films, it has also proved for me to be the least memorable.  This is where I found the use of color most distracting and annoying.  Or perhaps I'm just allergic to red...

In spite of all the flaws I've mentioned here, there's something undeniably unique about this trilogy--and regardless of where you start, once you've seen one of the films, you'll most certainly want to see the other two as well.