There are over 400 Amazon reviews for this movie!  More than 400 people have had opinions to express, which should make anyone interested in seeing it for that reason alone.  I'll put my two cents' worth in as well.

As with any production of an Austen (or any other) book, a film is a re-telling.  The same story (presumably) is being told by a different storyteller.  That automatically makes for some differences.

That being said, I truly enjoy this movie.  I love the book, and this production is true to the original story in most respects - something important to me.  The cinematography is excellent; it would be a joy to look at even if one did not care for anything else.  I really enjoy the score as well.

The acting is quite good.  Many writers have commented on the characterizations; some of them are not what I would have preferred, but none are too far afield from the author's descriptions (for example, Elizabeth is described by the author as "repulsive," although I might not have built a characterization solely on that word).  The intent of the production was obviously that the actors should not be "pretty" but as much like "real folks" as possible, for better or for worse.  That, too, is all right, although one may not like it as much seeing them larger than life.

To me, the major flaw in this retelling is where it deviates from the original.  Perhaps for reasons of uncomplicating the story (and/or for time considerations), the character of Mrs. Smith was changed from a desperate woman misused by Mr. Elliot to a mere featherbrained, gossipy friend; the plot line was changed so that Mr. Elliot now wants to marry Anne for her money.  This simply does not make sense; Mr. Elliot would not have wanted Anne for her money because he knew her father had spent practically all of it already.  The writers dropped the ball with a thud in this respect, and it's difficult for such a gaffe to be overlooked or excused by anyone familiar with the book.

But would I recommend this film?  Yes.  Those who are put off by early-19th-century English - who can't plow through all the now-strange words and idioms - get their best introduction to Jane Austen's works through quality productions such as this one.  If you've never read "Persuasion," give it a try after seeing this.