"Sublime" is one of those movies that I really enjoyed watching at the time, but which lowered a bit in my estimation the more I thought about it later.  The attention to detail, the sumptuous imagery, and the incredibly precise directing make for compelling brain candy, but when you walk away from the experience, you realize your mind is still hungry.  This isn't a cinematic meal, in spite of the heavy helping of allegory, symbolism, philosophy and cultural references; it is a dark, well-spun mass of filmic cotton candy.

Thomas Cavanagh plays George Grieves, who has just turned 40 and is being checked into Mt. Abaddon Hospital for a routine colonoscopy.  The routine goes wrong (as it is wont to do) when charts are mixed up and doctors make mistakes.  Before you know it, George is struggling against unhelpful (and sometimes TOO helpful) nurses, cold hospital lawyers, an oddly distant family, and formlessly sinister forces that prowl the halls of the East Wing -- currently under construction.

What's going on?  Well, the tag line for the film is, "Maybe if you spend your life worrying then the only way that your life will have meaning is if what you fear becomes real."  George comes face-to-face with the tangled conjunction of virtually every one of his fears.  In one sense it is a mesmeric mosaic of metaphors, smartly-done, patient, probative.  In another sense it is a sloppy mess, a tossed salad of terror, drowned in the dark dressing of doom.

Overwritten comparisons aside, the film is, in fact, very well-done.  Every single cast member gives an impressive performance (kudos to Cavanagh, et. al.), every single scene is set-up with archeological diligence (hats off to directorial newbie, Tony Krantz), and the dialogue is perfect -- almost stunning (standing O for screenwriter Erik Jendresen).

What keeps this movie from being a great flick is it's lack of focus.  It tries so hard to be about so many things that it ends up being about very little at all.  In the last fifteen minutes, however, the story tries to rally every one of its disparate symbols and signs around one heady, political (some would say philosophical) point.  (Not to mention it makes use of a twist ending that has become so over-used in films these days that it couldn't really be called a "twist" anymore.)  In spite of this, it is mostly a success, but it is also repetitive and dragged-out.

It's also stunningly neat-n-tidy, providing contrast to the rest of the script's every-which-way-but-loose modality.  Although I can't say it resonated with me, I can say that it was a pleasing last bite for a movie that -- while it didn't sate my hunger -- at least gave me something tasty to chew on for awhile.