This new release is quite a good treat, especially for Bruce Lee newly fans as it contains "Enter the Dragon" movie (1973), "A Warrior's Journey" documentay (2001) &amp; "Curse of the Dragon" documentary (1993) all in one 2-discs special edition.
Additionally, it also contains the "Bruce Lee - In his own words" documentary (1998), Linda Lee interview, loads of trailers &amp; TV spots...
For an old fan like myself, the only special thing in this 2-discs special edition is the "Blood &amp; Steel - The making of Enter the Dragon" documentary. Pity that it was only about 30 mins. It contains new unreleased footage captured in Ahna Capri's video-cam back in 1973. Some glimpse of Bruce in the footage, one with Bruce lifting one leg &amp; spinning around (wonder what he was doing?). Some other scenes showing Bruce smiling (Charisma on-screen &amp; off-screen, tell me about it! Bruce is just so unique &amp; captivating). Another showing Bruce put a coat over Ahna Capri (wonder what he was doing!! lol)
I am also glad to see "Curse of the Dragon" documentary included in this DVD boxset. In my memory, I do not remember this documentary being released in DVD by Warner.
One disappointing side though, the Game of Death lost footage in "A Warrior's Journey" documentary appears frail in DVD quality as compared to the HK Legends' release of the "Game of Death - Platinum Edition" version. I would recommed any Bruce Lee fan to also get the latter because of the high DVD quality &amp; other special features. Furthermore, these 2 versions showcasing the lost footage fight scenes vary a little, with Bruce appearing a bit more in one version &amp; less in the other version &amp; vice versa.
Being a fanatic Bruce Lee fan, I have in fact already owned the 25th anniversary edition "Enter the Dragon" DVD, "A Warrior's Journey" DVD, &amp; "Curse of the Dragon" VCD. So unless you are an average Bruce Lee fan, be prepared to part with some money.
To all Bruce Lee newly fans, I say to you what Bruce said to Karrem in the Game of Death lost footage: "What you are waiting for??!!"
All in all, I would give it a 5 stars rating for a nice collection in a 2-dics special edition.