Empty your mind of all preconceived ideas about this film before viewing, and it will be a very worthwhile experience.  It is not a horror film.  It is definitely an occult film that takes a fresh look at the old theme of  His Unholiness making an appearance on earth.  The Ninth Gate has a  superior cast who perform their parts well under the direction of a  director with a worldwide reputation for genius, especially when it comes  to depicting the darker matters of the mind.  The film is what you would  expect from such a combination of human talent.  The strictly human  characters display themselves in such a way that it becomes possible to  read their minds and feel their motives.  In so doing, the necessity  of  the one supernatural character becomes abundantly clear.
Johnny Depp  plays Curso, a dealer in and locator of rare books who, as Balkan  (Langella's character) points out, is worthy of trust because his loyalty  can be bought.  Balkan pays the right price to have Depp travel from New  York to Lisbon and Paris in search of the two other copies of a rare book  Balkan has recently acquired--one that was supposedly co-authored by the  Devil and one of his most loyal disciples, the latter of whom was burned at  the stake in the 1600's for his own loyalty.  Balkan insists that he thinks  only one copy of the book is genuine, and he wants to make sure his copy is  the one.
It is obvious that Depp has no idea what he is getting himself  into, but for all his cynical disregard of humanity, he becomes the  "innocent" in this story, because he is the one person who  becomes aware and admits early on that he has no idea what he has gotten  into.  Balkan says he obtained his copy of the book in a true sale from the  owner just before the owner committed suicide.  However, the former owner's  widow insists that the book is hers and becomes the first person trying to  kill Curso in an effort to get it back--after the best of feminine wiles  don't get the job done.  At this point Curso's "guardian angel",  whom he calls Green Eyes, enters the picture in the guise of a wandering  college student whose appearances at first inspire distrust and  apprehension until she begins the rather pleasant habit of repeatedly  saving Curso's life.
The mysterious "keys" that will open the  Ninth Gate and let the Devil break through are contained in the set of nine  woodcuts within each book.  The woodcuts each contain interesting jumbled  adaptations of various images from the Tarot's Major Arcana--combinations  that give a clue to anyone familiar with the cards and their meanings that  everyone's traditional ideas regarding the occult were either dead wrong  all along or they are about to undergo--forgive the expression--one hell of  a change. Curso notes that there are significant variations in the woodcuts  in each volume of the three existing copies of the book.  Apparaently some  were drawn by the Devil himself and some by his advocate.
Curso also  notes that he is now being hounded not only by the avaricious widow and her  hit man, but also by Balkan, who seems to know his every move, not to  mention having knowledge about the  violent deaths of the owners of the  other two manuscripts.  Finally it is revealed that Balkan and the widow  are involved in a literal battle to the death to become the Master who  controls the Ninth Gate and the group of Devil worshippers who are this  century's congregation of those who have been waiting for that Master since  the book was first printed 350 years earlier.
There is humor throughout  this film, providing necessary comic relief at some very tense moments.  That humor is nowhere more evident than in the scene in which the widow  (who has managed to temporarily regain Balkan's copy of the book) is  leading the gathering of pathetic self-styled Satanists in an even more  pathetic, sterotypical black mass.  The scene at its opening is so mundane,  you want to groan.  Then as it progresses, you realize that is part of the  director's intentional imagery to show how stupid the theories about  conjuring up and dealing with Old Scratch have always been.
This guy is  supposed to be the all powerful Prince of Darkness, right?  This is the guy  who can take your soul into hell for all eternity if you agree to the  arrangement.  And yet throughout history it is believed that if you draw a  circle around a pentagram on the ground or floor and stand in it, then  mutter a few incantations, the Devil will appear with his forked tail  between his legs and do whatever you ask.  This is the powerful adversary  of the Almighty?  Polanski has a very refreshing spin on that idea.  
In  The Ninth Gate we see Satan as a stronger contender--one perfectly capable  of appointing his "chosen one" among men.  Tired, evidently, of  insulting requests to preside as Master of Ceremonies at orgies and to give  individual megalomaniacs the power to rule the world, the Devil has decided  to run the show himself and to confer the honors of being his Commander in  Chief on a person who has proven himself a champion on the battlefield of  mundane evil.  
As for that "obscure" ending, we see Curso  walking alone toward the last eerie combination of Tarot symbols--The Star  (hope) imposed over the twin towers of The Moon (a card generally having to  do with the deepest and sometimes most sinister elements of the occult).  One tower is behind the other, giving the appearance of the two merging  into one Tower (symbol of total destruction).  Evidently the party games  are over.
A richly textured, beautifully filmed and well-acted modern  gothic tale.  I highly recommend it.