When I heard that Volume 2 of the ZIM series had came out, I reacted almost immidatly. I ordered it from here, and waited impatiently for it to come. When I got home from a particularly rough day of "skool" (sorry), I found a package on my front steps. I didn't even bother to open my front door when I picked it up. I ripped it open, and found this DVD. Let's just say I didn't do my homework that night. I was amazed of the improvement from Volume 1! The episodes were wittier, the characters were less odd-looking animation-wise, and the commentaries were so much funnier! Here are my reviews for all the episodes:

1a: Plague of Babies: 3/5 I don't like this one very  much. It just doesn't appeal to me.

1b: Bloaties Pizza Hog: 4/5 The reason this one is so funny is the way it rips apart places Chuck E Cheese's.

2a: Door to Door: 4.9/5 I love this one! The only flaw is the lazers at the beginning. I didn't think those were funny.

2b: FBI Warning of Doom: 4/5 This one's okay. It's not my favorite but I love the names of the stores (Video Outhouse, House of Lard), and the zombies.

3a: Bolognius Maximus: 5/5 This one is just plain sickening. I love it.

3b: Game Slave 2: 4.5/5 The only bad thing is that Iggins comes back to life at the end of the episode.

4: Battle of the Planets: 5/5 The second half-hour episode, and in my opinion, the third best in the Second Volume.

5: Halloween Spectacular of Spooky Doom: 5/5 Second best in this volume.

6a: Mysterious Mysteries: 4.5/5 The re-enactors MAKE the episode!

6b: Future Dib: 4/5 Overall a good episode, but the monkey is the best.

7a: HOBO 13: 3.5/5 Not that great, except that Skoodge appears again.

7b: Walk For Your Lives: 4.5/5 I loved the "Morbidly Obese Baby Dolls" truck!

8a: MegaDoomer: 5/5 GIR is the best in this episode!

8b: Lice: 4/5 It's okay.

9a: Abducted: 5/5 HILARIOUS!

9b: The Sad, Sad Tale of Chickenfoot: 6/5 One of my all time favorites, and the best on the volume!

So, I hope this helps you realize the greatness that is ZIM, and you will order it right now!