"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" directed by Frank Capra, is a classic movie that makes the audience feel compelled to do something significant with their lives.  It does this by using a combination of a compelling story, abstract terms, set design, cinematic techniques, actors, a great director, and final scene.  It uses all of these to produce the desired influence on the audience.

"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" is a story about the little guy and his lost causes.  Mr. Smith, a small town leader of the Boy Rangers, is caught up in a political spider's web.  He goes to the senate because the people devising this particular web think he will be a passive person.  However, Mr. Smith shows everyone what freedom of speech really is.  In his filibuster speech, Mr. Smith slowly changes the senate's view of both Taylor and the law, which they are creating in this nation's capital.

The many abstract terms, within Washington, shows the audience the history of America's causes.  The Lincoln Memorial is the center point of the film.  It seems to be the center of Mr. Smith's strength.  Just looking at it helps Smith feel better.  I believe the movie uses this monument because Lincoln's fight is one of the greatest lost causes won in American history.  The movie also uses other famous buildings, like the capital dome, in order to impress the magnitude of Smith's feelings for America on the viewers.

The many famous places that Smith visited, during his first tour through Washington D.C., are the actual buildings.  But, there are sets that were made for this movie.  For example, the Boy Rangers building, Smith's office, and Pain's house are all well-done sets.  The design of the sets gives the director the ability to shoot with a great depth of field, which he uses throughout the movie.

The director, Frank Capra, uses many cinematic techniques throughout his movie.  He uses not only depth of field, but also camera movement, camera placement, and lighting to portray his ideas.  The camera movement is very subtle unless a person is looking for it.  Capra uses the movement only to follow the action so a viewer is expecting the movement.  The camera placement is very noticeable especially during Smith's filibuster.  It starts out looking down at Smith, but by the end of his speech, it is looking up at him, giving him authority.  As for the lighting, the Lincoln Memorial's lighting is the part that sticks in my head.  The pillar's shadow, which falls on Smith, seems to be hiding him from the rest of Washington.  And, at the same time, portrays Smith's sorrowful mood.

James Stewart, who is a superb actor, played Smith.  I believe Stewart has a knack for this kind of role.  He has the ability to create a believable character.  His facial expressions look realistic and not rehearsed.  I have yet to see a better actor, from that period, than James Stewart.  He is so good that I view other movies merely because he is in them.  This movie is what solidified Stewart's movie career.  Frank Capra was smart to use Stewart instead of the original suggestion, Gary Cooper, to star in his movies.

Capra is a great director.  "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" received eleven Oscar nominations, and won a Best Motion Picture Story.  This movie was Capra's last film.  During his career, he won three Oscars.  Capra, also, inspired other great directors like Hitchcock.  Many people consider Frank Capra the first great American director.  His techniques continue to live on through other directors.

Capra's final scene is also the climax of this movie.  Everything is building up to this point.  Throughout this scene, Capra uses all of the different abilities at his disposal.  He uses camera angles, camera movement, suspense, and great acting to produce a memorable final scene.

Every time I watch "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington," it creates a subtle feeling inside me.  Why do I let some things go, even when I know I am right?  If this man can speak his mind in the senate, I can make a call or write a letter to my local officials.  But, this movie also makes the viewer think.  Could my local officials be like those in the movie?  Sometimes, I wish there was someone in a seat of power that a citizen could trust.  Someone truly like Mr. Smith, and not just a wolf in sheep's clothing.  But, like Mr. Smith, will a true sheep get taken to the slaughter?  Mr. Smith does survive, but by the skin of his teeth.

This film's elements create the final feeling of patriotism for the audience.  Without these elements, the film would not have portrayed its message with the power it did.  During a fireside chat, President Roosevelt once stated, "The only thing we have to fear is fear its self."  This movie shows its audience the only way the enemy will win is if we give in to the fear that it tries to instill in us.