I just watch it yesterday and it was a Great movie! If you seen the series don't expect this to be the continuation of the 5oth ep or the side story. This is a remake or re re-imagination the story with a lot of twist in the story short of similar to Escaflowne the movie!
3 years after Eureka Seven TV series end, Bones released Eureka Seven - Pocket Full Of Rainbows (a.k.a Eureka Seven the movie) with a new concept and storyline. I just finished watching it not long ago and it is a great movie! As a great fan of Eureka Seven, I have decided to write a short review and share some of my thoughts.Since it is based on a new concept and storyline, it is very different from the TV series. The whole story mostly focus on the interaction between Eureka and Renton, where they know each other since childhood, how they were separated, meet each other again and fall in love. There isn't much footage and appearance for the sub characters, so fans of them might be disappointedUnlike the TV series, the movie don't have much friendly interaction between Gekko State and Renton & Eureka but instead you get to see a lot of negative emotions, especially anger, doubt and desperation. If you watched the TV series, you will be shocked by how they changed some of the characters' personality.The storyline and concept is okay, but I can't really understand the 4th quarter of the movie. If you watched the movie, hopefully we can exchange some thoughts about it.Things I like about this movie
Fans of Eureka will be really happy for this (me too!). TV series portray Eureka as a girl that doesn't know how to show emotions, but in the movie, Eureka becomes a lovely and sentimental girl. There are a lot of lovely scenes between Eureka and Renton, which makes her cute, naturally. She even has a new long hair look in the movie!!! In otaku term, The movie is great, but I would advise Eureka Seven's fans to watch it as an alternative story instead of relating it with the TV series. There are a few parts that disappoints me , like "borrowing" the battle footage from the TV series, and movie's picture quality wasn't as good compared with others. But overall, I enjoyed the movie. The dubbed is here and the motion of the ending was great.

So beware if your a Die hard Eureka 7 fan and think this is going to be a continuation or side story, better think again. But It a very nice movie to watch and enjoy.