"Everyone always takes pictures of happy times. No one ever takes a picture of something they want to forget."  Those are the words of "Sy the photo guy" , expertly played by Robin Williams.  That's exactly what happens to Nina Younkin at the begining of the film. "It's a shame to waste this one exposure", Sy says as he takes a photo of himself using the Younkin's camera.  Nina cringes a little, but as in all really good movies the early warning signs are missed. 
Sy is a lonley man who dosen't realize he's lonely.  His world is filmed in stark whites, and most of what we learn about Sy is told in spoken monolauge while we watch his bland and uneventful daily activities.  In contrast, everything about he Younkin family has color and expression.  We see early on that the marrage is troubled, but even those scenes are given a depth that Sy's life dosen't seem to have.  Sy realizes this,  and has filled his pale home with pictures of Will, Nina and Jake Younkin.  For the past ten years or so, he prints an extra set every time the Younkins bring film in to the Sav-Mart where Sy runs the one hour photo lab.
Throughout the movie, we see Sy as wierd and a little frightening.  The Younkins see a man who is a little eccentric, and harmless.  Sy begins to "accedently" run into different members of the family as his desire to be part of thier happiness grows. All people have faults, and eventually Will's becomes known to Sy.  This is his breaking piont.  Robin Williams is wonderful to watch as he portrays Sy's struggle with himself and with the blemish that Will Younkin etched upon Sy's personal ideals.

Nobody dies, but people are destroyed.  Watch this a second time after you know all that Sy tells the dective.  There are clues, but Sy is a picture of something we want to forget.  We look past the cause and just look at the effect.  The movie isn't horror, or even an edge of you seat thriller. It's just really creepy. It stays with you longer than an action filled adventure would.  Watch it, and be prepared to start developing your own film.  Pictures can riun lives, and in this all to real story they do.