With Good Will Hunting, Matt Damon and Ben Affleck (Oscar, best writing, best screenplay) assert that their knowledge and maturity as filmmakers may even supersede their acting skills.  The co-written 1997 character study hits the viewer's heart and mind more fervently than the fists of its pugnacious main character.

Damon stars as Will Hunting, a cocky and confrontational twenty year old from south Boston who works construction by day and is a janitor at MIT by night.  Hunting, who was abused as a child, spends the majority of his time carousing at bars, picking fights, and charming women with his wit and charisma.  Affleck balances Damon's role fittingly as his simple minded best friend Chuckie, who also works construction and sees his fair share of courtrooms.

The best friends, however, share one distinct difference; Hunting is a self-taught genius, a mathematical savant capable of using his photographic memory to solve the academic world's most complex problems.  Damon's gift is discovered as he is casually solving an equation that renowned MIT math professor Gerald Lambeau (Stellan Skarsgard) has posted to challenge his best students.

After being arrested again on assault charges, Lambeau arranges the release of Hunting on the condition that he will agree to work with him on a weekly basis doing math problems and that he will see a therapist.  Hunting is unwillingly thrust into a journey to apply his potential and ability to a world that has perpetually rejected him throughout his adolescence.  After making fools of the first five therapists he is assigned, Hunting meets his match in Lambeau's old college roommate, Sean McGuire (Robin Williams), a similarly distraught man who gains as much from Will as Will from him.

Good Will Hunting could easily have been your typical "intellectual prodigy, overcome odds to rise to the top" inspirational story - and it almost is.  But the character development provided by the careful writing and exceptional directing by Gus Van Sant, along with an extraordinary cast and occasionally brilliant monologues by Damon and Williams - give the south Boston flick an edge and individuality that helped it earn nine Oscar nominations and two wins.

Williams (Oscar, best supporting actor) gives a typically impressive performance in a less characteristic fashion.  Though McGuire is introduced as a clever and dryly-humorous professor of psychology, his role as a troubled widower and passionate teacher is as intricate a character as he has ever played.  The first day of their meetings, Hunting rips through the core of McGuire's marital and psychological problems with the hasty examination of a painting hanging in his office, and McGuire becomes zealously determined to break through Hunting's tough exterior.

Affleck, Damon and Van Sant are able to avoid many of the popular stereotypes and film mechanisms typical of popular Hollywood blockbusters through cleverly simple filmography and deliberate writing.  The more dramatic scenes are not overwritten, nor are the violent scenes marked by fantastic action.  The attractiveness of the film comes from the development and dialogue of the characters, and from the personal, human characteristics that they possess.