I had planned to see this film simply because I have a deep interest in surfing. I think that it is a cool sport riding those fierce waves on nothing but a board. Must take tremendous athletic prowess, bravery and skill.
However I did not expect to like the movie itself. Given Hollywoods lousy track record lately (especially with stuff like this) I expected it to be another rubbishy teenage film.
Boy was I wrong!
Apart from the visuals (surfing and cinamatography). I was tremendously impressed that they decided to go so deep into the characters themselves. I especially like Anne Marie the main character. I thought that she was fine young woman. She was strong yet still flawed and vulnerable. I got the impression that she was a former wild child who was trying to do good. Trying to fill in the mother duties and see that her little sister went to college. Wanting to win the contest so that she could "pay her bills" on time every month. I found it really touching.
I also liked the female bonding between Anne Marie, Lena and Eden. They were like a family and looked out for each other. I found it far more real and noble than the promiscuous antics of the girls in "Sex and the City". They really loved and cared for one another. There was no cattiness or jealousy. Sure they fought but it was the kind of fighting you see among siblings who have disagreements. As opposed to see who  would be #1 princess.
I found it really neat the way that at the end of the film all those young girls were gathering around Anne Marie in order to get her autograph. I think that she was a great role model.  Sure she had problems, but the difference is between her and heroins in other in such movies is that she works through her problems and doesn't fluff them off. How refreshing!
The audience I saw it with were absolutely captivated. It was not one of those films where you can sense the restlessness of the audience, everyone was absolutely riveted.
Blue Crush is one of the best films I have seen in a long time. It will inspire you.