Where do I begin? This is a movie whose basic premise is so ludicrous one wonders how the project got off the ground. Its dialogue is mostly uninspired and much of the acting is far more serious than it needs to be. And yet, despite all this it is entertaining, in a dumb sort of way, and has a strangely high rewatchability factor.

The premise is, of course, that dragons have awakened from their long sleep to attack and destroy much of Earth. And we're talking a loooong sleep here; the fiery wyrms have supposedly lain dormant but alive in the earth's bowels since the time of the dinosaurs. Why it is exactly that the construction of one particular metro station in London is enough to awaken them all, when they apparently slept through the construction of the entire Underground, is not explained. Nor is how when nuclear arsenals and weapons of mass destruction failed to destroy the beasts the far more primitive weapons of twenty years on are successful. Other concerns, such as what dragons eat and how they breed, are given a cursory treatment, but even this seems to be made up as the film goes along, and they are not at all logically satisfactory.

The pleasure of a movie like this does not rest in its logic, however, but on how much we like and are engaged by its leads. Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey both do their jobs here, though it is clear Bale is the far superior actor; even the utter stupidity of the plot cannot shake his conviction, and the film rests largely on his shoulders. His Quinn Abercromby is a man of resolution and determination, a survivor who has much faith in the idea that "he who fights and runs away can run away another day." He has successfully kept a little enclave of people alive for twenty years or so, holed up in a crumbling castle in Northumberland, England, where he has meticulously documented everything he knows and discovers about dragons.

There are moments of inspiration despite all the stupidity; one in particular, involving the two main leaders of the little enclave - given the unfortunate names Quinn and Creedy - performing a primitive version of "Star Wars" for the children, is actually quite touching. Bale conveys an air of suitable weighty responsibility, and makes keeping his people alive look like the tough job it must be.

All of this changes one fateful day when a troop of Americans - they're the only thing worse than dragons, we're informed by one British sentry - drives pell-mell into the castle grounds, demanding sanctuary and a place to use as a base while they hunt dragons. McConaughey's Denton Van Zan - one does wonder who came up with the names for these people - is a hyper-macho American military man, whose braggadocio ways are simultaneously repulsive and intriguing to Quinn, who allows Van Zan and his people a place in his castle. McConaughey swaggers about and chews up the scenery, ridiculously overacting. It works, though, particularly as he must deliver some of the innately dumbest lines in the movie, about "bringing down the beast" and how to "kill the male, kill the species." His shaved head, scraggy beard, and bizarre body art definitely make him one of the more memorable-looking movie characters to date. He is a madman to Bale's voice of totally controlled sanity, and the two play off each other nicely.

Much action and little thought ensues; the dragons are eventually taken down by means that are not necessary to explain, as they are so very stupid. Let us just say they involve the extremely problematic notion that killing the one male of the species (yes, there really is only one, though according to the dragon-slayers all the females they've ever slain have been pregnant...this also is problematic if one believes their explanation of dragon fertilization, but never mind) will result in the destruction of the whole lot of them. Despite all logic, this plan succeeds, and eventually peace and a modicum of harmony are restored to the planet, partly, one suspects, due to the absence of Van Zan. One does wonder why the last words in the picture are "thank God for evolution," though...wouldn't evolution be the very thing that made the dragons so close to indestructible?