After he and his son, Danny, are brutally murdered, Ashe Corven is resurrected by the "mystical" crow in order to avenge the slayings. He is transformed into "The Crow" by Sarah, now all grown up and living in L.A. She paints his face to match that of her first Crow, Eric Draven, and sets Ashe on his path to avenge his son and himself and reunite with Danny in death.

I'm one of the many Crow fans who actually liked the second movie. I thought the visuals were amazing. The colors of the city popped when they needed to and faded into the background when they needed to. The soundtrack was a mish-mosh of artists but the styles of all of the artists blended perfectly with the style of the movie.

Vincent Perez was great as the grieving father. Ashe wasn't supposed to be another Eric Draven, he is another character all by himself. Stop comparing him to Eric Draven and Brandon Lee!!!

Mia Kirshner was pretty good as an all grown up Sarah. Sarah had alot of crap happen to her, as we saw in the first movie. My only issue is that sometimes she has an "I'm so goth I'm dead" complex but that's her style of acting (check out the L-word if you don't believe me). If you read the comics it goes a little more into her character, not much, but enough.

This movie is an entirely different entity from the first movie. I love the first movie and hate that Brandon Lee will never know the acclaim he deserves for his last work, but don't hate the second movie out of principle. Watch the movie as if it was the only Crow movie to ever be made and then read the comic and you'll get a better understanding of the story as a whole as well as an appriciation for the hard job it was to create a sequel to a movie with the legacy left by the original. Plus a few plot holes and subplots may get cleared up, like that whole Ashe loves Sarah thing.

Don't listen to reviews of the movie by other people, including my own, watch the movie and make up your own mind. Remember that the movie isn't really a sequel, it's just another story in a franchise. Kind of like the comics.