Being the horror buff that I am, I shake my head in disbelief when I see some of these movies out now that try to pass themselves off as "horror".  Thirty-four years later, "Night of The Living Dead" still scares the bejesus out of me!!!

People that criticize George Romero/this movie DON'T GET IT.  Period.  I don't know what they perceive as "scary", but being out in the middle of nowhere, being chased (as Barbara was in the beginning) certainly is right up there in the chills department!!  Think about it.  I remember as a child my bed facing the door to my bedroom, and I always wanted it left open.  But the problem was, one of my sisters would always hang a coat up there and it looked like someone standing there, just waiting for me to fall asleep.  You don't forget things like that as you grow up and you either grow to love being scared (as I did) or you feed into it and watch "chick flicks" the rest of your life!  To each his own I guess.

People have also tied this movie to political connotations and the fact that a black man was the main character.  Funny, but I never picked up on any of that; I just like being scared and this movie served its purpose.  The music was perfect, the camera angles were great, and the tension these people all felt as they lay trapped in a small house out in the middle of nowhere came across to the viewer in such a way that you could actually put yourself in their position.  Movies nowadays like "28 Days Later" (what the heck was up with THAT?!), "Freddie vs. Jason" (don't even GO there!  'horror' my a--!), and "Wrong Turn" are mindless crap that are nothing more than teenage gore-fests!  WHERE is the horror??!

You gotta love the characters in this movie too!  The news commentator is priceless!  What a great voice for telling everyone what was happening: "...reports have shown that they are eating the flesh of the people they kill."  And what about Chief McClellan?!  "Put that thing all the way in the fire, we don't want it getting up again!"

So forget about all those other movies that call themselves horror.  THIS is the best!