This was one of my favorite shows growing up. I am absolutely thrilled to have found it on DVD, and cant wait for the other two seasons to be released. The show is about a group of young riders for the pony express, who all have different stories and talents that they bring in. You have the ex-Texas Ranger Teaspoon Hunter, played by Anthony Zerbe as the station master who trains the young boys. Melissa Leo plays the sweet housemother Emma. Josh Brolin is Jimmy "Wild Bill" Hiccock, who is quick temper and even quicker with a gun. Stephen Baldwin plays William F. Cody, aka Buffalo bill, who is good at hitting targets at a great distance. while i've never been a big fan of his, he did play the role well. Ty Miller is the Kid, who is kinda naive and way to perfect, he doesnt really have any special skills but is willing to work hard. Yvone suher plays Lou, a girl in disguise, she can hold her own with the best of them when it comes to riding. Its not long before the boys find out that Lou is in fact Louise. Then come my personal favorite characters. Ike McSwain played by Travis Fine is a bald mute. His family was killed when he was very young and he witnessed the whole thing, the trama caused him to lose his voice, the baldness was from a childhood illness. Ike is extremely gifted with animals and can tame just about any of them. His best friend and my Favorite out of all of them is Running Buck Cross, a half-white half-Kiowa played by Gregg Rainwater. Buck as he prefers is an expert tracker, rider, interupter and is excellent with the knife he wears strap to his boot. Personally I dont think they make shows like this anymore, I only wish that it had lasted more than 3 seasons. You can watch all three seasons on Netflix streaming. I rewatched them recently and fell in love with the show all over again. Even my 2 year old son and 4 year old daughter enjoy it. Of course they like watching it for the horses I think, but I think almost any age or gender will enjoy this series.