Judging by the other reviews here, I thought this movie would be good... or at least watchable.

The acting isn't bad at all, but that's really the only bright spot.  The storyline doesn't make much sense.  The protagonist isn't particularly smart or skilled, so it doesn't make much sense how he continually is able to get the drop on the bad guys, and as messy as he is it makes zero sense how he continues to not get caught by the police.

This movie is NOTHING like Taken, by the way, which is a far superior plotted movie.  I wasn't expecting big budget effects or anything, I just really had a hard time finding the plot to be believable.

For most of the movie, I did not see the protagonist as the good guy at all, and actively was more on the side of the 'bad guys'.  Why?  Because unlike in Taken, or similar movies, the 'bad guys' didn't actually kill/kidnap/torture/murder the guy's daughter at all.  She voluntarily engaged in a homemade porn movie and then afterwards died of a drug overdose.  Not a snuff movie or even a bondage movie, just casual badly shot group sex porn with 3 or 4 guys (also, I doubt very seriously that a movie like that would sell or be appealing enough to package into a videocassette that would be for sale).

Yet the girl's father, after learning about the porno, goes into a rage (which I can somewhat understand) and decides to kill (and in some cases torture before killing) everyone who might have been involved in the porn shoot.

I'm not claiming that the guys who were involved in making the porn were good people, actually they seem kind of like dirtbags.  But they weren't serial killers or murderers, just regular scumbags, and I had a really hard time believing they deserved to die just for being the type of douchebags who would engage in group sex on a poorly-filmed porn.  I especially felt bad when the protagonist tortures one guy and then while he's tied up murders his brother in front of him, and then kills him next after the 1st guy is emotionally broken from watching his little brother die.  These were not nice guys, but they didn't seem like evil bastards who deserved to die in such a way.

Now, later in the final set piece, it is revealed that one of the guys who organized the porno shoot actually is one of those totally sick/evil/murdering evil bastard types who deserves to die (I guess in a way of revising history to make the father seem more justified in killing the other guys who were a whole lot less likely to deserve death) but by that point I have barely any sympathy for the father.  It is revealed that the guy who was in charge of the porno very likely drugged the daughter out of her mind, so she didn't entirely voluntarily participate in the porn (though it's not clear that any of the other guys would know this) and also may have given her more drugs when (she asked for them) so that he facilitate her overdose (even knowing that he's an evil murdering bastard who deserves to die, it's hard to say he's 100% responsible for the girl's overdose).

Anyway, the ending doesn't make up for the rest of the movie, and I was seriously disappointed in this (I don't know what movie the other reviewers were watching but it must have been different than the one I saw)