Since the whole theme of the show is supposedly centered on science, it would be nice if their version of it made any kind of sense at all.  But if you have any scientific bent at all, this series is not for you. It will only annoy you (as it has me.)  Indeed, who has ever heard of something as far out and absolutely ridiculous as nanotechnology!?!  Like they could ever engineer with anything that small- that's just preposterous!  And an episode about "cryogenics".  What ever that is.  Who ever heard of anyone trying to freeze themselves so they could be re-animated when they find a cure for what is killing them?  This obviously is so out there it would NEVER EVER happen.  And space rocks (asteroids, or meteors, or something, I think they called them) hitting the earth?  Clearly this could never happen either.  The simple idea is so far fetched it makes a scientific genius like myself vomit a little bit in my mouth to even fathom such a ridiculous theory.  And what about the episode where they talk about "pheromones".  Some non-scientific mumbo-jumbo about how an animal can give off a certain scent to attract members of the opposite sex.  I am at a loss for words at such an absolutely wacked-out idea.  Talk about scientific blasphemy.  OK, enough satire, I think a certain reviewer got my point by now.  Bottom line, yes, there is an underpinning in the plot about an exotic (and in real life, theoretical and controversial) Akashic field, called the artifact, but what science fiction show doesn't push the boundaries a little bit to stimulate the imagination?  Isn't this what they are supposed to do?  I found the show actually does a good job of pulling recent science topics out of current events and having a little "what if" fun with them.  Simply put, a certain other reviewer was harsh and completely off base and if you are a science buff this show will very likely be a favorite for you.  Don't be put off by a certain somebody who only wants you to bow down to his formidable scientific prowess (oh, sorry, I forgot I was done with the satire now).