All I can do is just mentally cry over this poor, lame, pathetic movie. WHAT IS DISNEY STUDIOS THINKING??????????? Just because CGI movies are now big in the animated world nowadays doesn't mean they should think, "Oh gee, nobody likes hand-drawn animation anymore. If we make anymore of those lame movies, nobody's gonna watch them, so let's make CGI movies from now on."

WRONG, WRONG, ABSURDLY WRONG!!!!!!!!!! I am so frigginly sick of CGI movies!

STORY: Once upon a time, a nerdy little chicken (um, excuse me, a chicken is a female, not a guy) with giant green glasses with a frantic personality, who claims that the sky was falling, and nobody believes him, not even his dad (okay, now this was the only part of the movie that touched my heart, making me symphathize for poor Chicken Little. Believe me, I know how it feels not to have anyone believe you.). Then the movie industry makes a humiliating movie about the poor kid, about how he believed that there were aliens. Soon, he plays baseball, and everyone on the team picks on him because he's such a shrimp. Blah, blah, blah, I'm fast-forwarding with the story here, and soon, there's alien invasion, and then the chicken saves the day, and then the movie industry makes another stupid movie about him, making him flying in space with his friends, all buff, and the duck that he just all so suddenly has a crush on was made into this sissy girl who sighs over the chicken, who she calls "Ace" with a dreamy, sappy voice, with long eyelashes, and a revealing, slinky dress. And then the credits roll in, with everyone singing, "Don't go Breaking My Heart," like the characters from "Ella Enchanted", another movie I'm extremely annoyed about, right at the ending.

OMIGOD, like, Holy S**t! I can't believe this movie! It's absolutely pointless, and entirely stupid! And that movie tagline, "THE END IS NEAR," exaggerates too much, and it's just plain stupid. Why oh why does this magical movie industry all so suddenly makes idiotic animated movies? Just ten years ago, they were doing wonderfully, and nowadays, their animated movies are just SO stupid! Why can't they continue making hand-drawn movies? I mean, someone HAS to do it! People, it's becoming a lost art, and if someone doesn't make anymore of those wonderful movies, it's going to die with the past! I hate CGI movies nowadays. It's like hogging the animated world! What about stop-motion? At least Tim Burton is smart enough not to make CGI movies, unlike the Disney Studios nowadays! And what about hand-drawn toons? Nobody's making anymore of it, and when Disney actually DO make hand-drawn movies, they're just released straight to the DVDs and videos, and never hitting theaters.

I wonder if Walt Disney is watching his studio from Heaven. If he is, I bet he's furious with the animators there. I'm so angry at the creator of CGI movies. It would be so nice if Walt Disney could just come back to life and change the animation studio back to how it was before he died, when hand-drawn animation were successful. Even his ghost would be perfectly fine. I hope Disney Studios will get their magic back, and go back to making hand-drawn animated movies, because that's their specialty. CGI is only good for them if they were doing it with Pixar.

-Jo W.