I saw Garden State in the theater when it was first released but wanted to see it again before writing my review.  I finally viewed it on DVD recently and I have to admit, I was concerned my opinion of it would change after viewing it a second time.  I was fearful it was one of those movies that, upon multiple viewings, would turn out to be not nearly as clever as I originally thought.  (This seems to happen often to me with movies.)

I was pleasantly surprised that I enjoyed the film perhaps even more than I did the first time.  I recall a friend of mine going to the New York premiere before it was widely released - she was excited because Zach Braff was going to be there.  When I spoke to her afterwards, she said she enjoyed it but that she could see that it was Braff's first effort behind the camera.  I have to disagree with that assessment.

Garden State was definitely the best movie I saw in 2004.  Now, I'll admit, I didn't see a whole lot of movies in'04, but Garden State would probably beat out most other ones I could have seen.

Zach Braff stars as Andrew Largeman, a guy from New Jersey who is spending his days out in L.A. living the life of a struggling actor - that is, waiting tables and getting bit parts.  He does apparently land the role of a retarded quarterback though, which is brought up several times.  However, this recurring joke seems realistic, coming up about as frequently as you would expect it to.

Andrew comes home to NJ for the first time since leaving for boarding school when he was 16 - he's home because his mom has died.  Along the way, he runs into his old friends from high school, with all of the meetings reminding me a lot of running into old friends in Jersey (probably the same as a lot of areas of the country, but since I'm from Jersey, I felt connected).  He also meets Sam, played absolutely brilliantly by Natalie Portman.  Portman evidently shocked Braff by wanting to be in the film and I have to say, if this is how she acts in every film she's in, then she'll be winning Oscars very soon.  The character Sam is very vulnerable, yet strong-willed and sarcastic at the same time.  We see nothing of her father, which may explain part of her guarded nature - at the same time, it also explains her emotions, which are expressed at various times in the film.

Andrew's father is also brilliantly played by Ian Holm.  He has also served as Andrew's psychiatrist for years, loading him up on more drugs than one would believe possible.  Witness the doctor that Andrew goes to see because of his recurring headaches, who says "With all the Lithium you've been on, it's amazing you can even hear me."

What I found odd about this film was the way it was reviewed by the mainstream media.  The cover of the DVD says "Hilarious and Heartfelt."  Hilarious?  It's as though the curmudgeons who review movies for a living weren't even sure what this movie was.  It was most certainly not a comedy, at least not foremost.  There were certainly funny scenes and some good lines, but the Garden State was a drama; a story about not only Andrew Largeman, but a number of people in their mid-20s who don't have life all figured out and who are struggling with that bleak reality.

I don't expect people of older generations to find this movie to be good at all. I'm certain my parents wouldn't like it at all.  But the fact is, the film truly speaks to people who are under the age of 30 and understand what it's like to be that age in the early 21st century.  Thirty years ago, life was figured out by your mid-20s.  People were married, had kids, knew what they wanted to do for a living for the next 30-40 years of their life... nowadays, it's not like that.  Being unsure of what's coming next when you're 26 is a fairly recent phenomenon, but it's not a crazy one.  Garden State explores those feelings and the psychological barriers that go along with them.

It is rare that I see a film that I feel so strongly about once it's over - Garden State is one that I really feel like I "get."

The soundtrack is excellent as well and the songs are in the exact order that they are in the film, as per writer-director-star Braff.

If you have the chance and you're under 30, check this one out.  I'm willing to bet you'll understand where all the characters are coming from.