On the way to the theater to see Bad Santa, I really wasn't expecting much. I thought my friends and some of the previews I had seen for it made it look like a serious, boring type of movie. The movie starts and I'm laughing already within the first five minutes, and the laughing didn't end until I left the theater. Even then it didn't stop, my friends and I have been saying lines to each other from the movie ever since. Bad Santa is one of those movies that you either love or hate. There is absolutely no in between. Whether you think it's your kind of movie or not I would highly recommend seeing this one because it is one the funniest movies I've ever seen. When I saw it in the theaters there wasn't a point where half the audience wasn't laughing.

This insanely hilarious movie has a lot of big names on its roster. Billy Bob Thornton (The Alamo) plays a dead beat department store Santa, who happens to be particularly good at opening safes. The only other problem is he's also particularly good at being a short-tempered alcoholic, and bad at keeping a low profile. Bernie Mac (Ocean's Eleven) plays the store's head of security, or "store dick," and happens to be the only one to have caught onto Willie and Marcus' plan. Marcus (Tony Cox; Me, Myself & Irene) is an African American, little person who uses these facts as a loophole to cover up for Willie's drunken mishaps. Also in the movie is the Santa loving bad girl, Lauren Graham (Gilmore Girls). She, for some reason or another, falls in love, or lust, with the Santa we know as Willie.

The movie starts out fast and just builds and builds as Willie's actions become more ridiculous and, to anyone not involved, absolutely hilarious. As the movie goes on you watch Willie become more and more conscience of the way his actions affect the people around him. During the movie he starts to want to help "the kid" more and more. "The kid" is a pre-adolescent that went to see Santa at the department store. The problem with the kid is that he has no fit guardians. His mom is dead, his dad is in jail and his grandma, who watches over him, is almost brain-dead. Also the kid might be slightly retarded but they never really clarify that at all. Since the kid has no one to look after him, Willie takes advantage of the situation and decides to move into the kid's mansion of a house. This is why Willie starts to become more attached to him, because he lives with the kid, who is very nice to him. Don't take this the wrong way however, they can tell you this in the movie and still have you laughing at it anyway. The scene of Willie and Marcus trying to teach the kid how to fight is one of the funniest scenes I've ever seen. Also the more times you watch the movie, the more things you notice that makes every scene even better. I must've seen this movie around fifteen times already and I still think it's absolutely hysterical.

In order to enjoy this movie, however, you have to have an open mind and not be offended easily. If you are offended easily and can't keep an open mind, this movie will probably offend you quite a bit. It is, after all, a very offensive movie, which is the main reason that it's so funny. It's also the reason you can't be on the fence about liking it or not; you either love it or hate it. You just have to realize that it's just a movie to entertain you by putting aside all the political correctiveness of everything. They aren't trying to get you to act like Willie they're more of trying to have you not act like him. So if you're willing to broaden your horizons a little and take amusement in life, see this movie. It'll have you rolling on the ground laughing in no time.