Being both an avid reader and a writer, gadget-driven stories at the expense of character development is an absolute no-no (at least for ME it is).  Unfortunately I have watched enough bad anime to notice that in most cases, it is the gadgetry which takes center stage, while the characters are often relegated to shallow window-dressing. Scantily-clad cyber chicks in a dystopian world with vehicles that turn into heavily armed battle bots?  Been there, seen it, yawn.

When there is a beautiful synthesis of plot and character and when those characters take me on an emotional journey, through their happiness and their heartbreak--that is when a tale resonates with me.  I saw this in the Robotech series, and now I see the perfection in Last Exile, which is by far one of the most intensely character-driven series I have yet to feast my eyes on.

And yes, it is a visual feast for the eyes.  No transforming mecha or over-the-top gratuituous battle-scenes here.  The animation style harkens back to an almost dreamy Napoleonic/Art Deco era with its flying vanships, massive man-o-wars with their flowing and elegant lines--the sleek and deadly Silvana is right up there with Patrick O'Brian's fabled HMS Surprise.  The colours are subtle, almost watery (though a great deal of the action takes place in the skies).  And never having been a big fan of anime soundtracks, I have fallen in love with Last Exile's subtle yet airy blend of electronica--Cloud Age Symphony is one beautiful piece of dreamy soundscape.

But what I really love are the characters who are as complex as as human beings are themselves.  These are not cardboard cut-outs, but people in many ways like ourselves, caught up in extraordinary situations.  The ideas of 'good guys and bad guys' has no place in the highly detailed world of Prester.  I even found myself having a little sympathy at the end for Maestro Delphine, the cold and ruthless ruler of The Guild.  There is an emotional depth to these characters and their relationships, which takes us from just being a passive viewer to the place where we can truly empathize with them: Claus and Lavie with their wide-eyed wonder and dreams of crossing the Grand Stream; The fitting tribute to all brooding, gothic and enigmatic heroes of literature--the dashing Alex Rowe and his beautiful second in command, Sophia Forrester; the mysterious and sometimes sinister Dio and his companion Lucciola; the emotionally distant Tatiana and her navigator Alister.  Even the wide-eyed orphan, Alvis Hamilton, transcends the typically annoying cute little girl syndrome so often a trope of anime, and is an intriguing character in her own right.

This is a series worth owning and watching again and again. It is a hallmark of what breathtaking visuals and an incredibly complex cast of characters can do for the entire genre of anime.