"Cold Prey" is a story about five Norwegian friends who decide to go skiing and snowboarding off the beaten path. While performing some stunts one of them breaks a leg. Instead of trying to hike back to their car, which is to far away to get to before nightfall, they see an abandoned ski lodge and decide to take shelter for the night. At this point it's nice to see that some things are universal. Anyone who watches an American made horror movie can easily tell you what will happen to one, if not more of them once they enter the show lodge. It seems in Norway they have to same idea.

When reading the product description I was expecting "Cold Prey" to break new ground on the trapped teens - homicidal maniac slasher genre. Sadly it doesn't. It actually used a lot of the same set ups and tension building cliches that you would expect to find in any American made horror movie.

Don't take that to mean I didn't enjoy the movie. I actually found it very enjoyable. I was especially thrilled to see that this wasn't a torture porn type of movie like "Saw" or "Hostel". Most of the kills worked on the idea of you know what's going to happen, so why do you need to see all the gory details. This is probably the result of a cultural difference between Europe and the US. It seems to me that Europeans tend to like their movies a little less violent than us Americans. Which I think works in this movies favor.

Of course I didn't like everything about the movie. I think one problem problem a lot of movies have is they think they need to have a big twist. One that will wash over you like an epiphany. "Cold Prey" first gives you a hint that there's going to be a twist at the beginning of the movie when a young boy is being chased and apparently buried in snow. It then fades news reports talking about the disappearance of random skiers through the years. From that moment on you know that there has to be a big reveal to tie those two things to the story of the five friends.

Without trying to give anything away, you should have a good idea of who the killer is by the end of the movie. What you won't be expecting is the so called twist that explains what turned him into a psycho killer. I was actually disappointed in the reveal. To me it didn't explain anything.

One final thing that I didn't care for was the muted colors. It just made everything too monochromatic. All the colors were deadened to the point that they became indistinguishable from each other. When two of the characters are exploring the lodge they find a room that caught on fire sometime in the past. It was just too hard to tell the difference between the color of the burnt door to the unburnt ones. When go into the room, there just seemed to be no difference between the burnt walls and the ones from out in the hallway that had not been burnt. I'm okay with directors and cinematographers using muted colors, it just needed to be done with a lighter hand.

The biggest concern I had was actually something I didn't need to worry about. I was concerned about watching a horror movie with subtitles. I was afraid that once the action picked up I might miss some of what was being said. Thankfully that wasn't a problem. I was able to keep up with the subtitles and focus on what was happening.

I would definitely recommend this movie. Especially if you like movies like the original "Friday the 13th" before Jason became the killer or "Hostel" then by all means get it. It's going to be a little less violent that American made slasher films, but like I said I think that's a plus. Sometimes it's nice to see something that's going to work more on suspense and tension. We don't need all the blood and gore that has become prevalent in horror movies made today.