2071 A.D.  Mankind has been flung from Earth into the rest of the Sol System because of a man-made accident years ago.  Life goes on, and so does the rest of mankind.  Criminals are rampant, and so are new adventures, which means Spike and the rest of the crew of the Bebop can make a few woolongs and have some fun.
Spike Spiegel is the lead male character in this series.  Although he wears the look of a slacker about him, this bounty hunter is anything but.  Skilled in hand-to-hand and ranged combat, he is an ex-member of the Red Dragons syndicate, but he "died" in that life 3 years ago.  His partner, Jet Black, and him are the original crew members of the Bebop, a converted fishing ship now meant for space travel.  He'll often use his smaller ship, the Swordfish II, to get him into and out of any trouble that arises.
Faye Valentine is the lead female character(one of the few females throughout the series) who originally came onto the Bebop in handcuffs (twice, actually).  However, she soon became an adopted crew member and fellow bounty hunter, although she doesn't work with Spike or Jet (she'll split the reward most of the time).  She's very similar to Spike in some aspects, but this only leads drives both of them towards being more competitive with one another.  She's cool, level-headed, confident, and isn't the kind of woman to mess around with.  She is definitely sexy, but her womanly charms work on every other guy in the series but Spike and Jet.  She'll often backup Spike on jobs using her personal ship, the Redtail, which she uses to blow away most of the trouble that comes along.
Jet Black is a former member of ISSP (InterStellar Space Police) stationed on Ganymede, but after an accident which made him lose his left arm, he retired and became partners with Spike aboard the Bebop.  He owns the Bebop as well as his own smaller ship, the Hammerhead, which he'll pilot usually to save Spike and their bounty.  He's not usually found on the frontline, but rather, he provides significant backup support for Spike while they're searching for their target.  He's the most mature crew member, and he isn't the type to lose his cool easily.
Ed's real name is Edward Wong Hau Pepelu Tivrusky 4th, although he's commonly refered to as Ed or "Radical Edward" (his hacker alias).  Ed, however, is an 13 year old female, and although she may talk a lot of gibberish and act goofy, DO NOT let this confuse you.  Ed is a child prodigy and a renouned computer hacker, and while she may act weird most of the time, she is incredibly intelligent and probably knows more about what is going on than the rest of the crew put together.
Ein is a Welsh Corgi dog, and as a result of multiple experiments performed on him, he's now a data dog.  In essence, Ein is smarter than the average dog, as well as a few people found in the series.  When Ed joins the crew, both girl and dog become fast friends, and they're often found together both on and off the Bebop.  Most of the time, he can be found sleeping, eating, or being harassed by Faye.
What makes Cowboy Bebop so great is a combination of things.  First of all, unlike most series, Cowboy Bebop has no predestination.  By what I mean is that there is no great treasure they're all trying to find, there is no great goal or beautiful man/woman they're trying to rescue.  Each episode is a telling of a crew member's adventure, and they all have their own different feel.  From somber (Speak Like A Child) to sadistic (Pierrot La Fou) to action-packed (Gateway Shuffle) to comedic (Mushroom Samba), this series has a different feel for each episode, which will satisfy any type of person.  
In addition, I'm not 100% positive about this, but I believe that none of the music tracks (with exception for the opening and closing tracks) are ever repeated throughout the entire series.  What I mean is that the song Ballad of a Fallen Angel is never played outside of the cathedral scene in the episode "Ballad of Fallen Angels."  This means that there is no repetition of the same old boring song for whenever some villian comes on screen, and they don't try to use one different song for multiple scenes where that song may not even have the right feel for that scene.  If a music track is played for a scene, its unique for only that particular scene, and thats it.
I haven't seen Trigun yet, so any of those Vash fans out there can hush for now as I say that Cowboy Bebop is #1 anime series.  Why is that?  The plot? Quite good.  The music? Top notch.  The characters? Splendid.  The series? Flawless.
If you haven't yet, go check out Cowboy Bebop.  Trust me, if you spend some cash and buy the DVDs, you will not be disappointed at all, and if there was a 2nd season, you'd probably buy that soon afterwards.  :)