Think Tomb Raider meets English Patient meets Proof of Life meets U.S.A for Africa.
1-Tomb Raider because:- Angelina starring(obviously), her hairstyle and pouting, some of the action sequences, Asian location, brooding English/Scottish/ Welsh co-star with similar character to Nic's, with the love scene even located in Asia
2-Proof of Life because:- some of the subject matter in terms of civil and political unrest, the rescue scene, brooding emotionally unavailable male lead character.
3- English Patient because:- English characters, sweeping romanticized desert scenes, posturing in flowing clean white garb (though Sarah's in the middle of a dusty refugee camp), landmines, brooding emotionally unavailable male lead character
4- USA for Africa because:- obvious.
But having said all this, this wasn't a bad movie- I'd thought it would be worse. It started powerfully but by the end deteriorated into a "movie" in terms of storyline, dialogue, action sequences. However, the second to last scene is an unexpected gem- it made the movie for me.
Clive Owen is the best thing about the movie- a powerful gritty performance. (No offence- I think Kevin Costner is an excellent actor and one of my favorites, but he would have made the role a different animal.)
If you'd never seen an Anglelina Jolie perfomance, she would have moved you, but essentially (and like a lot of other actors) she pulls out her usual range of emotionions and pouts and falls slightly flat and two dimensional. A grittier actress would have been better in the role. If this movie had starred Catherine Zeta Jones as planned, or a Nicole Kidman, or a Julia Roberts, with Kevin Costner or a Russell Crowe lead, Oscar would have been falling over it's feet to worship. But the lack of A-list leads (by Hollywood's standards)and the uncomfortable guilt- inducing subject matter for most Americans was enough to keep audience's away.
To conclude...You'll enjoy this movie more if you watch the special features and watch the movie as it was intended according to the author -"an epic romance set against the backdrop of humanitarian work", not as a documentary on relief work or the UNHCR. (I must say, though, I was very disappointed and surprised at the director's repeated use of the word "Africa" when referring to Ethiopia, given that "Cambodia" was referred to as Cambodia, not Asia, and "Cheznya" was referred to as Cheznya, not "Europe" and the Art director's comment"...Namibia on the Ivory Coast" What does that mean?!)