First of all -- NEVER take the word of an anonymous reviewer spewing ridiculous venom!  
More importantly, I must confess, "Muriel's Wedding" is my favorite movie of all time!  It was recommended to me by a friend of mine -- a MALE friend of mine.  (Who's straight, by the way.)  I first watched the VHS tape of this movie several years ago, and fell in love with it.  I watched it over and over and over again, often rewinding to my favorite scenes so many times I can recite them by heart!  I've worn out two VHS tapes of this movie, own two more, and am now buying the DVD!  
Toni Collette is priceless in her portrayal of "Muriel."  Muriel is a highly intelligent young woman with feelings that run very deep.  Her inner beauty is apparent to anyone with a soul right from the very beginning.  When Muriel hooks up with "Rhonda" (Rachel Griffiths) on vacation, the real fun begins!  Collette and Griffiths have a working chemistry that explodes on the screen and sweeps the audience into the story.  
Muriel begins to learn to be true to herself with Rhonda's help, but is still driven to "show everybody" in her hometown that she's a "winner."  Her will to succeed almost destroys her friendship with Rhonda, but after a series of twists and turns, Muriel sees the light and truly does become the winner that we know she's been all along.  
Chick flick?  Perhaps.  But intelligence, perception, and depth are required of anyone (be they "chick" or "dude") in order to appreciate the characters and all the nuances in this movie.  If you're not a deep thinker, you're likely to scribble a "pseudo-review" such as the one written by the anonymous unfeeling guy who obviously had no clue as to what he was watching.  Surface thinkers like that should stick with "Beavis and Butthead," and should not write reviews of art they can't possibly begin to comprehend.  
If you have brains in your head, feelings in your heart, and empathy in your soul, then this movie is just what you've been searching for!