So, two of the other reviews struck me.  One said closer to a 2 than a 4, and I have to agree - not ready to give it a 2 star "Didn't Like", but feel unsatisfied giving it a 3 star "OK".  The acting was ok - actually liked Maggie Grace, a lot - a cut above your average damsel in distress.  As far as Guy Pierce's Snow, another review said they were reminded of Jack Burton from Big Trouble in Little China, but whereas Kurt Russell was playing something of a blow hard in that film, Snow in this film is more like a Bruce Willis Character (I'm thinking more Joe Hallenbeck from the Last Boy Scout,  than John McLane) ...  although this felt a bit more of a caricature than a character.  Or maybe Bruce Willis is better at acting hurt as he is cracking wise while having the crap beat out of him.  Getting hit in the face like that messes you up, and to have an "Oh-Come-On" moment come so early in the film sets a bad tone.

I am surprised no one saw the resemblance to another  Kurt Russell movie - Escape from New York.  Pretty sure the writers have seen that one.  Now THAT movie is looking a little old these days, and could do with a re-boot, and when I saw this I was seriously expecting that.

Now ... Spoilers ...

... here is where I have a problem with the film.  Snow is still working a case he was helping a friend with, even though it crashed and burned resulting the friend dying and Snow being charged with his murder.  In fact there is something strange about his arrest in that it is pretty apparent that he is being framed, but by who?  He agrees to rescue Emilie, the President's daughter, so that he can look for his partner who has been locked up on the space station for shooting a police officer after stashing some important evidence - but we don't know evidence of what.  Emilie is looking into corporate corruption and experimentation on humans in the space prison, and during the romp through the bowls of the prison they find pretty firm proof that is exactly what is going on.  They get off the station before it is blown up (did I mention that it was falling towards the eastern seaboard of the United States?  So somehow the last 15 minutes of Star Wars is played out in the movie with fighters attacking the prison and being shot down by automated gun turrets as they try to land a time bomb at a critical location on its surface ... guided missiles and smart bombs are too old fashioned in the near future I guess), and upon landing Snow is cuffed and thrown into jail .... I am not sure why the President didn't pardon him for saving his daughter, but that isn't a major problem ... what bugs me is that Emilie finds the case that Snow was looking for, but its empty - and Snow tricks the traitor into revealing himself.  "Did they pay you well?"  he asks (WHO????  Who is they????) ..... and then some pointless dialog  ... the girl catches up to him ... some more dialog and the credits.  Oh, and he finds a chip in the dead friends lighter which could have all sorts of information on it ... or porn - we will never know, cause the writers couldn't be bothered with the simple task of tying up the loose ends.

It was sloppy.  They could have tied all the story lines together with 2 or three more lines of dialog and provided resolution to everything, say maybe chip turns out to hold information on the corrupt corporation that runs the prison - that's what Snows friend was working on and what the traitor was being paid to bury - then Emilie could finish what she was working for ... but no - they couldn't be bothered .... this slacking off on story while throwing in gratuitous special effects bugs the heck out of me.

Pffft.  Oh well, maybe someone will bring Snake Plisskin back.