Angel Beats! may very well be my new all-time favorite series, or content of anything I've ever watched! The story was absolutely incredible, and though many may complain, it worked perfectly in the 13 episodes it was released with. I do wish there was more, but I'm not sure if it would have worked if there were.

The story focuses on three main characters, Otonashi, "Angel/Tenshi" Kanade, and Yuri. Each three distinctive characters to the plot line that drive the whole story. No matter how you phrase it, this show sounds very strange to write in words without giving away the plot line, but I must stress how amazing of a story this is. And every single character in the show you learn to love a lot, there wasn't ONE character that I didn't like in this show, the side characters were pushed back a bit, but about 6 of them (including the main characters) had very interesting lives and backstories that you got to watch. The brilliant part about this episode is each character has a trouble, they first come into the world without having memories of their old lives. By taking the story by Otonashi's pov, the viewer gets to watch as a person has to just live without knowing anything about themselves other than their name until they later get their memories. Each character has terrible memories which is the reason for this "second life" opportunity where they each learn how to live.

It's a very interesting set up of plot, and each episode has you hanging on the edge. I must warn you this is VERY sad at times, especially the end. It also does a good job with humor and drama, which may sound odd to mix these three, but it couldn't work better. I think this is a series best for people who like to be sucked into atmospheres, different worlds for a while, and be dragged by their curiosity. It's always interesting, I even had fun watching it a second time. The story has the best characters I've ever seen, and I think that is why it is so enjoyable, each of them have sort of there own views on the scenario, and for once it's not about super geniuses or any type of hero. They are all regular people with a bad past that unite to find the truth of God. Again, sounds weird, but it makes sense.

For those who loved this story, there is a manga prequel known as Angel Beats! Heaven's Door that follows Yuri and Hinata when he first fell into this world.

I am more of a subbed type of person, however I first saw this show dubbed, (and I guess I can't compare it to many other dubs) but the English voice cast was actually very well done. I may have loved the dubbed better surprisingly (perhaps because that's how I first watched it..) Hands down a must see. I've already watched the whole series twice online for free. But I'm going to pay for this because that is how much I like it! Very great series. Hope others will also enjoy.