I started to write a review of the entire thing, but realized that the main issue here is the new material that has been added, so I will concentrate on that. Let me just say that I was blown away when I first saw this movie many years ago from the opening montage of Martin Sheen's character suffering a breakdown to "The End" by the Doors, punctuated by muted blasts of helicopter rotor blades. The only disapointment in the rest of the film for me was that I could predict which characters would die and which wouldn't; the black guys would die first and Willard and the surfer dude would survive because they were the hero and the harmless insane guy, respectively. As soon as Chef said 'I don't care where I die, as long as it ain't here", well, you knew he was toast.

Most of the new scenes aren't really necessary and the first time you see them they do seem excessively over the top. But after a while it starts to blend in and flow. Kind of like adding a couple new movements to a familiar symphony. I believe that Coppola was trying to show war as being absurd to the point of parody...and beyond. A bad acid trip. A nightmare. And even nightmares have oddly funny moments. Part of the disconnect from reality that is the (cliche alert) insanity of war. Like the scene with the priest giving communion wearing a flak vest and Coppola's cameo appearance as a war documentary director, yelling "Don't look at the camera!". Perfect.

The plantation scene was nice because it explained where Clean's body went, along with giving the historical context of the colonialist line of march in SE Asia. It didn't have to run so long though, and the scene where Willard gets some from the French MILF wasn't really needed. But its dreamlike quality blended in with the growing nightmare to come. This was the last pleasant interlude of the dream. The Bunny scene and the surfboard-stealing were comic relief, and both scenes were pretty much expendable.

By far the best addition was Brando's deadpan-sounding reading of some CIA propaganda outta Newsweek magazine and the New York Times. Some things never change! While the little kids posing and taunting the emaciated Willard added a perfectly macabre touch. This is an important scene, one of the most important in the entire film and I don't know why it got cut from the original. This is the ultimate indictment from Kurtz of his accusers, and it is so subtly delievered that it doesn't fully hit you until much later. Of course, there are many scenes that stay with you long after you see them here and that is the mark of a classic. But this scene will haunt you not only because of what it means in the context of the storyline, but in the relevance that it still has now.

All in all, this is a true masterpiece and a landmark achievement. Any other war movie comes in a distant second. And this just may be the final, if not best-loved, version of it.