First, the good:
1. Special Effects were amazing, as always.
2. The acting was, for the most part, terrific.  It was good to see the cast cutting loose.  The melodrama present in the first few seasons was gone (it made a reappearance in the first TNG movie) which was also good.
3. The story could not fit in a single episode, unlike Generations and Insurrection, also very good.
Then, the bad (brace yourself for length:
1. Inconsistencies.  As I said, I am no fanboy, but I could pick out dozens of inconsistences.  The least of which being technology that is present in the Trek timeline, but not utilized in this movie. Convenient that the technology would have altered the present. This is lazy, lazy writing.
2. The villain was pointlessly evil and stupid.  A person does not rise to a position of domination over billions of people, and then gloat over a single ships destruction.  Again, lazy writing, as this EXACT SAME PREMISE is present in dozens of episodes.  Villain almost destroys Enterprise. Enterprise crew constructs plan.. you know the rest.
3. Troi gets weird.  She magically displays abilities far and away different than anything she has ever displayed before.  They were even conveniently made up AFTER the [stuff] hit the fan.
4. He looked nothing like Patrick Stewart. Lazy casting job.
5. Where did the Remans come from? Why is there no mention of them EVER?  
6. The Super Ship of Death and Pain was a terrible, terrible plot device.  Come ON. Super Ship of Death and Pain is a too common a theme, why not something more sublte?
7. Speaking of plot devices.  The little transporter.  I didn't question it's existence.  I really, really didn't.  I am not a trek nerd, but this thing was a terrible, lame contrivance. Lazy writing, AGAIN.
8. Leader of Romulus? Please. A militaristic society doesn't kneel down like scared puppies like that.
9. Three on one and they still get the snot beaten out of them?
10.  The list goes on and on and on.
This movie is lame.  I will not get cerebral in this review.  It was simply, undeniably, agonizingly lame.  I am done with Trek movies forever.