Well, not literally. But for the last decade, if I'd been watching a comedy, chances are it was this.

Jack Black is not to everyone's taste, and I can understand that. I'm personally a big fan, though I acknowledge that he works best in certain films. But Black's clear love for rock and roll shines through the whole time.

Had this film been more poorly written, I would have complained about how creepy it is that Black's character - Dewey Finn - was exploiting these kids. But thankfully, both the film and its main character are aware of the irresponsibility of what's going on. Knowing that this something that can't last is a big part of the emotional investment as you're waiting for the house of cards to come tumbling down on Dewey and the kids.

This film was my introduction to rock and, yes, it's no college primer, but looking back the film has all sorts of little references, some of which might miss even moderate rock fans, that clearly mark the energy that went into the film.

One thing I loved was about how there is basically no villain in the movie. The kids are unmotivated, but talented and creative; the principal is a stickler for rules, but secretly yearns to break free of them; even Finn's nemesis, played by Sarah Silverman, is perfectly in the right to treat Finn with contempt. I loved that the film fights the idea of establishment more than it does the people within it; both the principal and the parents come to see the students in a new light, rather than being "punished".

The other thing I loved was how none of the characters become "famous" in the end, which is something else a more poorly written film would have done. The kids and Dewey feel rewarded just for having discovered their own passions and talents - and for all the emotion they give it at the end, you'd be convinced that they won a million dollars.

It would be disingenuous of me to claim that this is either the funniest comedy or the most cerebral, but it's certainly one of the most enthusiastic. Everyone feels like they're having a wonderful time, and I couldn't help but be dragged along by it. This is a comedy I'd recommend to any self-respecting teen.