Great B movie flick.  My friends and I actually got a game of this going.  We made the big chain things out of those foam floaty things and some rope. The dog scull was a nerf ball we tore into and ducktaped. The slashes weapon was about the same just used pvc pipe paded with foam and foam bats. The rest followed simularly padded hockey sticks and such.  Then we got into our hocky pads and soccer shin gards (Our Hockey ones where to bulky) and played.  It was great for a couple of years we played. In the end we had about four teams of people playing. Our team actually had the hockey equipment but others used other things.  Football pads, Dirt bike pads.  Anything works.  If you want to play here is the basic things we said one had to have. A helmet (Hockey) The full face mask is key.  You can get on heck of a black eye if you don't.  Shoulder pads, Some kind of hip and butt pads...  We used old breezers from hockey had the most protection but some used football pants.  Shin gaurds, elbow pads, we also started to make wraps to go around our ankles.  So when you get tripped it doesn't kill you.  I used the holders for ankle weights and instead of the weights I placed peices of hard cardboard in them.  Worked great!

Then just make up your weapons.  Watch the movie a few times.

Make up your dog skull.

We played on the soccer field playing on the width and not the length.  Place a stake we took the handles off some croquet mallets. And shove them in the ground. We shortened up the length a bit.  The width is pretty much what ever you want.

We had the little kids do the stone throwing we had them get a bunch of stones and throw them at a garbage can.  We had a hundred we just used over and over again.

Then get into your places and start to play. The quick can do what ever they want to get the "skull" onto the stake. (Basically it is alot of running around and tackling) No other team member can touch the skull with there hands. The Lash I think there called (It's been a while) The one with the chains, Job is to protect the quick they can do what ever they need to do this but out of experience usually they need to protect them from the Slash's and the other one because when they try to interfer with the two quicks it just causes trouble.  The other three's job is to tie up thier opponents so they can't harm the quick.  And they can hit or trip up the quick as well.

Play until the dog skull is on the stake.  Then order a pizza and some ice bags.

Go to it.