I find myself conflicted writing offering this review. I found the movie entertaining and the plot with some mystery (not a bad ending), yet the premise for the plot seemed to derive from a combination of formulas used many times over. Still, other than some seemingly unrealistic, or unsensical events, the movie does captivate interest. On to some of the details (contains spoilers)...

Overall, the casting and actors'perfomances provide a solid anchoring of a quality production (Aidan Quinn, Kate Beckinsale, et al). The scenery was well chosen, but I wonder if more dramatic lighting would have set a more frightening mood. Most scenes seemed too well lit. Also, in some of the more dramatic moments that should have created a more drastic reaction, the object of the 'scare' was opaque or in the periphery. I draw reference to the scene where the professor emerges from the house of the family doctor/confident, where he seems to spy something that captures his bewilderment. The camera pans over a scene on a hill where, seemingly, nothing is worth notice! I had to reexamine the scene and freeze to capture the existence of the ghost of the little girl standing off to the far side and blurred. Other scenes left me scratching my head as to the reality of the situation. In one sequence, Kate brings Aidan to a small house on the property, which, supposedly, her mother loved to spend time. While there, a rocking chair starts rocking, to little comment or notice from the two! Also, how did a supposed ghost drive the car to pick up the professor at the train station (unobserved) or around the property? Why didn't the nanny reveal her situation earlier, in fuller detail? All of these things (and more) could have been addressed better with a more thorough scrutiny of the plot by the director.

This film is worth a view and you will find it entertaining, but don't place credence in the comparison to such supernatural classics as 'the changeling','the legend of hell house', and 'ghost story', it isn't even close. 'Haunted' is an upgrade from 'the others' and a few others, but not a classic. The shame is, with a little more attention to detail and mood setting filming technique, it may have been.