I've gotten used to seeing Gallo depicted as a scumbag. In every movie I've seen in which he was a principal (Palookaville, Arizona Dream), his characters, always executed to perfection, are nonetheless always the oily type, the kind that skulk around outside convenience stores hoping someone will throw away a cigarette pouch with a few smokes left. As I said, always performed to perfection.
This movie presents a different kind of sleazebag. Really a message movie, there are several motifs and themes here: Childhood trauma, debilitating mental illness, low self-esteem, revenge, ostracism, loneliness, et al. With this thematic pedigree, it would be easy to write this off as another Loser-Find-Redemption movie. But, the presentation, and the two stars prevent that. 
I said it was essentially a message movie. The most obvious message (and the most fallacious) being that love, when strong and spontaneous enough, can level all bad memories. Billy Brown is a completely unloved, miserable loner until Layla, a beautiful but equally detached young lady, first plays his wife for Billy's indifferent parents, then guides Billy through a brief but harrowing near-breakdown, while Billy blames a field-kicker for his five year imprisonment, shamefully broken-backed with loneliness, desperate for love, desperately sick. Layla finally prevails upon him to tell her his story, and promises her love, unwittingly preventing Billy from murdering his scapegoat.
The message I see can only be understood after you digest the visuals. Billy, for instance, is a very symbol himself, a medley of motifs of Americana. He leaves jail, bound for his hometown of Buffalo (working class city, couldn't be more American) wearing red leather cowboy boots, speaking with a patent New York drawl. When he kidnaps Layla and finds that her car is stick, he launches a harangue about "luxury", projecting an accurate, and thus distorted picture of what American's dream. His mother is obsessed with football, his lounge-singer father patriotically horny. Billy's favorite sport, and only talent is for bowling. All this adds up to a stark value judgement, made even more apparent by the locality: America is a land in which, however "all American" a person seems, however much his dreams of conformity weigh on him, said person is nine times out of ten cast off for doing the very thing American's are best at, and make a taboo of: Showing frailty. Salvation comes only when a frail human tiredly realizes, as Billy does, that the only savior in this world is companionship. More importantly, he learns that the most crippling memories may chip away at, but can never shatter our spirit.
Mental illness seems overwhelming in this film, but one wonders if Billy is truly ill, or simply angry and irrational. To give this effect color, Gallo employs many techniques to give the film a singular feel: Slow motion, montage, still-frame, etc. When Billy is shown towards the end in an alternate destiny, his brains flying out with the bullet, the question of insanity, but also family trauma seems to be answered. Even if Billy were to die, his illness (if he has one) would persist in the parents who raised him to face the world portionless and alone. Layla, herself alone, saves Billy by doing what Billy most wants but also most avoids: She links him by however stringy a lifeline, and brings color to a world in which parents, friends, and love
were wanting.
The scenes that work best (the home scene, the love offerings in the hotel, the still-fame homicide), give great peaks to an always lofty film. A deranged but rewarding trip.