I've been hearing a lot about how they've butchered the original movie with this bastardised version but I must say that there's really not that much of difference and, in fact, is in many ways a better movie as a result. The intro has been recut along with a lot of the boring crowd reactions but lets face facts here folks what we want to see and hear is the man singing and clowning around both on and off the stage and that's exactly what you get here.
I'll admit that I wasn't exactly a huge Elvis fan before I invested in this dvd, (I'm more of a Metallica / Alice in Chains man myself) and my memories of the King were mostly of the god-awful movies he made in the late 60s and 70's. However as soon as the movie intro kicked in I knew I was about to experience something very special indeed. I'm lucky in that I have a pretty decent home cinema setup with a widescreen t.v., DD amp and 6 speakers and to be honest listening to this movie with anything less in almost criminal. The sound, while it doesn't quite reach the peaks of more recent releases like Metallica's S&amp;M, is simply superb especially when you consider it was shot and recorded over 30 years ago - I was 1 year old then. I noticed a few reviews were complaining about the sound quality and I'm afraid those people are either talking out of their arses or they were listening to it through a single speaker 12inch black and white portable t.v. set. Trust me, the sound is more than adequate. Kudos must also go to the restoration team on the excellent image quality of the movie - the correctly matted anamorphic transfer, while not 100% perfect, looks like it might have been shot last week.
As for Elvis' performance: well I can't say in this short review about the range of emotions experienced while watching it. I have to say that I was completely in awe of the man as he strutted his stuff, acted the clown, sang like a God, danced like a demon and made out with the entire female audience. If you are in any way unsure about getting this disc I urge you to just go and get it - you most definitely won't regret it. And make sure you TURN IT UP.