My family settled down to enjoy a nice "chick flick" together looking for a little light hearted humor and love interest.  Instead we got an outstanding cast trapped in a disconnected series of montages.

Nothing happens in Elizabethtown.  I don't know if this is true of the actual place, but it is certainly true of the movie.  Every phase of this movie is drawn out and is excessively long.

Despite being too long, the movie doesn't resolve all the points it raises.  There is a sub plot of Susan Sarandon hating one of her husband's buddies.  This is not resolved.  There is a bratty child named Sampson and his man-child father who can't discipline him.  This is not resolved.  There is the fact that the town is about to learn that Orlando Bloom's character had an enormous business failure.  We never learn their reaction.

The whole basis of Bloom's character is idiotic.  Apparently some shoe magnate blew $1 billion creating and marketing a sneaker designed by Orlando Bloom.  Why the designer would be blamed for such a failure is unclear -- Mr. Shoe Billionaire (Phil) should have done some market testing.  Normally I'll give screenwriters a pass on how they get their character to the starting point of the story, but that scene too is so drawn out that it simply became annoying.

Finally, the screenplay is terrible.  Bloom's character has no real character arc.  He is kind of depressed about losing his job and having his father die, and then he gets over it.  So what?  There is no blinding insight as to what he has to change.  There is no moment of truth where he must decide on a new outlook in life vs. his old one.

The movie doesn't even have the traditional, boy-gets-girl, boy-loses-girl, boy-gets-girl structure.  It's kind of boy-gets-girl, girl-gives-boy-a-cool-handmade-travelogue, boy-sees-girl-again-and-they-kiss.

The only reason this movie has 2 stars is that I've seen Hercules with Lou Ferrigno.  I have to save one-star rating for really horrible stuff.  At least the actors in this movie could act.  And Dunst is cute.