I was drafted out of college in 1968 when graduate school deferments ended.  Yes, I know I could have avoided the whole thing just by swearing that I was homosexual or handicapped or by convincing my father to win a Senate seat.  Alas, Dad was a World War II vet who worked for Ford and who thought it was about time I started acting like a man.  And, I was young then and idealistic and it seemed important to me that year that I should share the same risks that other young men were being compelled to take.

  At least, unlike so many of my peers, I have not since been forced to wonder what I missed.  Because, I didn't really miss any of it.

  Most of the war movies that have been produced since Vietnam have been made by men who have never heard a shot fired in anger and have been haunted by what they missed all their lives.  For example, 'Saving Private Ryan' looks and sounds and feels nothing like war.  I have always felt insulted by 'Apocalypse Now.'  And, 'Platoon' sometimes looks like Vietnam but not usually and I don't really think Oliver Stone has anything more to say on the subject of that war that what Jane Fonda has already said a thousand times.  And, I realize it is idiosyncaratic of me, but I also had a good friend named Jack Rambo who met a tragic and painful end in late November 1969 and so I have always been annoyed that Sylvester Stallone, who spent the war hiding in Switzerland, should not only give himself permission to appropriate my friend's name but go on to more or less slander all Vietnam Vets at the same time and then get rich by doing it.

  But 'Full Metal Jacket' is very different from all these other Vietnam films.  Most of the kids with whom I served were bright, funny, anti-authoritarian, ironic, tough and very dangerous.  So are the characters in this movie.  I have probably been asked a hundred times:  "Well, did you ever actually kill somebody?" and then the inevitable, "Well what was it like?"  Well, if you actually want to know, watch the smartass protagonist of this movie try to rise above the Marine Corps with his intellect and cleverness.  Watch him go out with a patrol that gets lost--because really, you aren't actually in combat unless you're lost.  Watch kids get picked off.  Watch another kid do something really angry, stupid and brave.  Watch them line up, pop smoke and go waste a slope.  Then watch them skip home in the dark singing the Mickey Mouse song.  That is pretty much what my war looked like.

  The other day I heard our President say that he and Donald Rumsfeld had "been through a war together" these last few years.  I think it haunts the President that he "missed" Vietnam.  I once heard James Jones say, "I would never want my son to go to war but I would have to tell him that if he didn't go that not going would haunt him for the rest of his life."  Now I live in a nation governed by men who are haunted by "not going."  And, I think they could have saved us all a world of heart break if they had just watched this movie instead of having to prove what tough guys they are by invading Iraq.

Donald Charles Davis