Together is a touching movie about a father, Liu Cheng, and his adopted thirteen-year-old son, Xiaochun, a violin prot&eacute;g&eacute;, who go to the big city, Beijing, to seek fame and fortune from rural China. The father hopes that his son would find a teacher who would nurture Xiaochun's talent. While in Bejing Xiaochun becomes infatuated by his beautiful neighbor, Lili, a gold digger. At the same time, Liu Cheng learns that even though Xiaochun is promising, it is not enough. Xiaochun must have a teacher with the right connections. However, what the father wants is not what the son wants.

In Together, Chen Kaige,  director also of Farewell My Concubine, has again captured the spirit of the times, eloquently depicted his story, raised pertinent social issues, and has given hope to the Chinese people that they will overcome yet another challenge.

The story takes place against China's current economic boom that has caused much social upheaval in the country. Today, China with a population of 1.3 billion must deal with 140 million migrants from the countryside arriving in cities seeking jobs and opportunities to support themselves and the families they left behind. The issues that the new migrants must deal with are their own basic survival: a roof over their head and the next meal. The migrants must also confront the alienation they endure for chasing after their dreams. Chen Kaige has carefully pointed out that in the pursuit of the mighty Yuan and fame, the hearts of some city dwellers have turned into stone; they have forgotten a sense of community and humanity.

Chen Kaige portrays Xiaochun having to deal with his own passionate nature and the mysteries of his hormones. In doing this, Xiaochun learns what gives his life meaning and what makes him a virtuoso on the violin.  It is his love for Liu Cheng and later his infatuation with Lili that moves him to play beautiful music. And it is the same passion that makes him willingly stop playing the violin. Xiaochun even pawns his violin to buy a coat for Lili.

Although the theme of the movie is contemporary, Chen Kaige is indebted to the symbolic convention of the past. Instead of the zither, the violin becomes the voice by which the protagonist, Xiaochun, reveals his love for his mother who had abandoned him as a baby, Liu Cheng, and Lili, his first love. Through the imagination of Western masters and his own talent,  Xiaochun's heart and soul touch the heartstrings of all those who hear him play.

Chen Kaige has successfully told the story of Twenty-first century China in transition and shared them with his audience in a most lyrical way.