I've loved Iron Man ever since my first Tales of Suspense comic, so I might not be the most unbiased person to write a review.  Still, I'm going to try and be as honest as I possibly can.  In some ways, Iron Man 2 improves on the original.  For instance, the brawl between Iron Man and War Machine was perfect, and RDJr was even better this time around.  However, there were some weak moments.  For example, Pepper Potts is almost absent from the movie, and is shrill and unpleasant during her brief appearances. Whiplash has never been a particularly compelling villain, and the movie doesn't do much to make him any more exciting.  Also, they really need to STOP with the "Iron Man fights someone who has the same technology" plots.  It's already boring.  Plus, I couldn't help but wonder where a drunken hobo managed to get the equipment to build an Arc Reactor. Stark did it in the first movie because he had several billion dollars worth of his own weaponry to cannibalize. How does a homeless Russian manage it?  Furthermore, the character of Justin Hammer was silly and played for laughs, which was the wrong move.  It had a real "Jim Carrey in Batman Forever" vibe to it.

Others have mentioned the unnecessary plot lines, and they're right.  We could have done entirely without the "Paladium Poisoning" and the "Under House Arrest by SHIELD" plots, since neither of them really went anywhere, and felt like padding in a movie that didn't need any.  I didn't mind the Black Widow showing up, but eventually it felt like we were tripping over minor characters.  Also, they're not fooling anyone with the whole "The Avengers don't want Tony Stark" subplot.  None of us believe for a moment that they'd do an Avengers movie without the only Avenger that's proven to be a box-office success.

Still, it was a good movie.  Perhaps not a GREAT movie like the first one, but at least it wasn't a franchise-killing fiasco like Spiderman 3 or Batman and Robin.  Honestly, if none of us had ever seen the original Iron Man, we'd all be talking about how this movie was one of the best Comic Book movies ever.  But as it is, it's over-shadowed by it's phenomenal predecessor.