After saving Earthrealm in Mortal Kombat, Liu Kang and his friends must now fight the all-powerful Shao Kahn and his super-tough minions.
Once more, not much in plot, but I like it just as much as the first.  Robin Shou and Talisa Soto are the only actors reprising their roles from the first film.  Keith Cooke, who played Reptile in MK, plays Sub-Zero in this one and Co-Creator Ed Boon does the voice of Scorpion again.
Here are the fights:
Fight 1
Raiden vs. Shao Kahn
Finally, we get to see Raiden strut his stuff and see how dangerous Shao Kahn is.
Fight 2
Liu Kang vs. Smoke/Kitana vs. Minions
2 for price of 1!  It's cool to shoot from Kitana giving serious whoopings and Liu Kang getting a serious whooping.  Smoke is pretty good.
Fight 3
Scorpion vs. Sub-Zero
Finally!  Fun-filled fight.  Definetly one of the best!
Fight 4
Jax vs. Cyrax/Sonya Blade vs. Minions
Again we have a hero kicking .... and another getting a whooping.  Cyrax is tough and Jax is funny trying to reason with a robot or cyborg or whatever the heck he is!
Fight 5
Liu Kang vs. Jade
Not really a fight, but one of Nightwolf's 3 tests to see if Liu Kang is ready to fight Shao Kahn.
Fight 6
Sonya vs. Mileena
Okay.  Mileena's pretty fast and you guys who like seeing girls getting down and muddy will enjoy this.
Fight 7
Raiden vs. Minions
Raiden kicks major .... in this fight.  I don't know if the minions are Noob Saibot(Same costume) or Reptiles(Same growling)
Fight 8
Liu Kang vs. Baraka
Baraka is a fast son of a gun and quite a challenge for Liu.
Fight 9
Jax vs. Motaro/Kitana vs. Sindel/Sonya vs. Ermac
3 in 1.  Jax discovers his inner strength, Kitana overcomes the demons that drove her mother insane and Sonya snaps Ermac's neck like a twig.
Fight 10
Liu Kang vs. Shao Kahn
Now I really feel sorry for Liu Kang in the first part of this the longest match.  Animalities and great music heighten the fight.
Characters:
Liu Kang
Sonya
Raiden
Jax
Johnny Cage
Kitana
Nightwolf
Shao Kahn
Sindel
Rain
Ermac
Motaro
Sheeva
Shinnok
Smoke
Scorpion
Sub-Zero
Cyrax
Noob Saibot
Jade
Baraka
Mileena
Kabal(Mentioned)
Stryker(Mentioned)
The costumes are better, the music is pretty good.  Not nearly as bad as what everyone says it is.