This movie was all the more remarkable as it was shot on video with a single camera and a crew of essentially only four persons over a period encompassing two years. Chris Kentis and Laura Lau are to be commended for their outstanding achievement in Independent Film. They showed their original video at a film festival where it attracted the attention of Lions Gate Films who picked it up and did the work necessary (with Kentis and Lau) to color correct and transfer the project to 35mm film for its very successful theatrical release.

 It was based on a true story about an American couple who were left behind by a dive boat on the Australian Great Barrier Reef. I was in Sydney at the time and was horrified to read that the couple was missing for three days before the dive boat crew even noticed. ( Their bags were left on the boat and the driver from their hotel even asked where they were.) The dive boat actually returned to the same location the next day and found two weight belts on the bottom and still didn't make the connection.
The Captain was later tried and acquitted for negligence. The incident sent shock waves throughout the sport diving industry.
Months later some of their gear and a cryptic message begging for help was was later found washed up on shore.

 I know that these kinds of things can happen as I have occasionally picked up panic stricken divers left behind by other dive charter boats.

 The actors, Blanchard Ryan and Daniel Travis did a fine job over the course of the two year project that was shot in the Bahamas. They were forced to use real sharks as they could not afford a fake ones. For this alone they get an "A" for style and determination.

 The script was written by Kentis and resulted in a taught 80 minute film that was truly horrifying and suspenseful. As a diver it made me squirm and cringe and left me disturbed for days after seeing the film. There can be few fates worse than being abandoned at sea.

 This film is a triumph for Indie filmmakers who showed what can be done with a few people and a lot of imagination. This is a classic tale of the sea and a must have, especially if one is a diver.

 This one is two thumbs up all the way.<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00079RC1E">The Wreck Hunters: Dive to the Wreck of the USS Bass</a>