Words cannot express my sheer dissapointment with this release (the now 3rd edition of "Jaws: The Revenge" on DVD!). First of all, "Revenge" is not a great film by any stretch of the imagination (it's only merrit being that it is part of the Jaws series and a treat for "big-rubber-shark-lovers" throughout the world). My problem with this new disk (the Universal release) is the following: In the original theatrical release of "Revenge", the shark dies when Ellen Brody stears the front of the boat into the side of the shark and impales it with the broken mast. The shark writhes in pain as blood oozes from its mouth. Slowly, the giant shark sinks back into the water, taking the front half of the boat with it. The closing shot of the scene is a beautiful underwater shot of the sinking beast falling into the darkness below with the front end of the ship stuck in his belly.
The scene is bloody, violent, and an absolute thrill to watch.
But then Universal had to ruin it...
When "Revenge" was originally released on video, the ending was changed completely. Now, instead of the front of the ship stabbing the shark and sending him sinking to its death, the front of the ship hits the shark, and he/she/it BLOWS UP FOR NO APPARENT REASON. To achieve this new ending, Universal splices in clips of the shark death from the original "Jaws", and uses an embarrissingly crude model to illustrate the shark blowing up (in fact, if you watch the scene frame-by-frame, you can visibly see a small, poorly sculpted wooden shark next to a poorly crafted wooden boat being blown up in what looks like a puddle in somebody's driveway). 
Not only does the scene not make any logical sense and looks terrible, Universal then decides to cut in shots of Mario Van Peebles' character "miraculously" rising to the surface, having lost 10-15 gallons of blood after being bitten in half by a 3 ton Great White Shark (needless to say, he dies in the theatrical cut).
It has been this poor excuse of a cut of the film that we have lived with since 1988. Several years ago, "Goodtimes, a one-time distributor of "Revenge", released the film on DVD (2 versions, one in a snap-case, the other in a hard-case). While these discs contained the "bogus" ending, the transfer is quite good and the image quality is superior to other "nobody-cares-about-this movie-but-me" releases.
But for a short time, there was hope...
Last month, Universal announced its own release of "Revenge" on DVD (along with the first DVD of "Jaws 3"). It would appear that FINALLY, after years of insulting its viewers' intelligence, Universal would finally release the theatrical cut on DVD. I mean, what would be the point in releasing a title in the same version that's been around for 4 years? Why sell fans something they probably already have? Why not give them something different?
The answer to this is that obviously Universal couldn't care less!
Not only does the new disk contain the "bogus" ending, but it also contains a transfer that is inferior to the one produced by Goodtimes. 
I had such high hopes for this release. Needless to say, I am an enormous Jaws fan. In fact, while on a field-trip to Universal in 1986-7, I actually saw the shooting of this final scene on the backlot - stabbed shark and all!) I feel VERY CHEATED by this release, and now hold zero hope of the theatrical cut ever making it to a DVD player in the future. This was Universal's chance to make good on 16 years of [crud], and they blew it.
Avoid this disk at all costs.