Hannibal Smith leads a team of Special Forces soldiers on dangerous missions for the military. Their latest mission backfires and counterfeit money plates are stolen by a rival mercenary team. Hannibal and his "A-Team" are framed and sent to prison. But high security prisons, mercenaries, and traitors are no match for this team that specializes in the crazy and impossible.

The A-Team, based on the legendary 80's television show are played by Liam Neeson (Hannibal), Bradley Cooper (Face), Quinton "Rampage" Jackson (B.A.), and Sharlto Copley (Murdock). Neeson plays every role to perfection, and this is no exception. Hannibal is the man who always has a plan, brilliant and a bit crazy. Speaking of crazy, Murdock is certifiably insane, but an ace pilot and the team's constant comic relief. Copley does a wonderful job of acting like he should be committed. Cooper is Faceman aka Templeton Peck - the pretty boy, master of disguise and master of manipulation. There's a bit of craziness to him as well, but we get to see a deeper side of him when his former love (played by Jessica Biel) is on their trail. And Jackson gets to play the iconic character of B.A. Baracus - the tough as nails former Airborne Army Ranger who becomes afraid of flying.

With over-the-top action, incredible stunts, and impossible situations, The A-Team is much like the original series - if the original series were allowed to actually shoot people. All of the fun-loving spirit, adventure, and comedy from before with a re-vamp of fantastic characters and a fun (if somewhat predictable) story. This was my favorite of 2010's summer action blockbusters. And I was more than excited to own it on Blu-ray, with all of its special features and extras. This edition also includes a digital copy of the theatrical version. Huge explosions, lots of laughs, and plenty of surprises - The A-Team certainly exceeded my expectations.

Special Features Include:
Disc 1:
*  Theatrical Version
*  Extended Version
*  The Devil's in the Details: Inside the Action with Joe Carnahan
*  Deleted Scenes
*  Gag Reel
*  A-Team Theme Mash-Up Montage
*  Plan of Attack
*  Character Chronicles
*  Visual Effects Before and After with Commentary by Visual Effects Supervisor James E. Price
*  Theatrical Trailer

Disc 2: Digital Copy