Here's the premise: after the suicide of a close college friend (Stockard Channing), three ex-wives (played by Goldie Hawn, Bette Midler and Diane Keaton) maneuver the destruction of their ex-husbands' careers and lives. Sounds like a great `I Am Woman' sicko-revenge trip, right? It actually is, for the most part - it's just that the film (based on Olivia Goldsmith's novel) becomes a bit excessive with its over-dramatization, far-fetched kookiness and stereotypical hoopla. The whole thing turns into a `How can we outwit these miserable men and take all their money and be really clever and coy about it the whole while' kind of story. After years of helping their husbands build hugely successful businesses, the three women are callously dumped for younger, sexier "trophy wives." What I don't understand is why these smart, business-minded, middle-aged women bothered with their husbands in the first place, or why they expel all this narcissistic energy in dealing with them! (For Christ's sake ladies, let this film be an example, learn early that all men are good for nothing!) Oddly enough, Diane Keaton's on-screen daughter is the happiest person in the film, not to mention the least dysfunctional, and she's a lesbian!  The whole movie comes off like a cross between 9 To 5 and The War Of the Roses, though nowhere near as sick and deranged as the latter - The First Wives Club points out everything in light-hearted raillery. Bette Midler is excellent as Brenda, the wife of an electronics-emporium magnate, and Goldie Hawn, as good as always, plays Elise Elliot, an aging movie-star who can't get any roles -- an important issue in Hollywood right now (key word being `Hollywood'). Being a member of Joe Blow's Average America, its hard to feel really sympathetic for the character (or the real issue). So an actress can't pull down that typical 3 or 4 million any more -deal with it, get a job at Pizza Hut, or shut the hell up! Diane Keaton, on the other hand, seems a little out of place in such a `free and easy' production, though her performance is plenty good, as is Sarah Jessica Parker's as Shelly. There are also some delightful little cameos from Heather Lockear; Jon Stewart, Ivana Trump, Kathie Lee Gifford, James Naughton, Rob Reiner and Elizabeth Berkley.