'Election' is a rather original film (certainly, I haven't seen anything like it before). Using a high school student council presidential election as a metaphor, it successfully satirises real politics.
Am I completely weird because I actually sympathise with all three of the potential candidates, even (*gasp*) the overachiever Tracy Flick (Reese Witherspoon)? As one of those kids who waved his hand frantically in the air at school when no-one else knew the answer and got ignored by the teacher, I can identify with her desire to shine and frustration with others (though I obviously can't condone much of her petulant, scheming and positively obsessive behaviour). Likewise, her jock opponent (Paul Metzler) deserves sympathy because he is being manipulated so much and is the straight-man in a collection of schemers - having a conscience the size of Jupiter, I can identify with that as well. Finally, his sister Tammy's rebellious denunciation of the whole electoral process and vow to put an end to it struck a chord as well - I regard student politics as something as a waste of time (teachers really don't have to listen to student bodies, as Tammy says) and a playground for people seeking attention and/or a career in politics.
Well, now that I've shocked and dismayed numerous readers and probably made myself an object of scorn and derision, here's some more stuff about the film. I thought Matthew Broderick's performance as the teacher was excellent (as were those of the three candidates). The character was thoroughly unlikeable, a hypocrite whose extramarital affair with his best friend's ex-wife mirrored the relationship with said best friend that he condemned Tracy for. Likewise with his manipulation of the election.
The film as a whole worked beautifully, the story flowed well and the mixing of perspectives of the various characters was good. I particularly liked the prayers of Tracy, Paul and Tammy the night before the election and the sort of epilogue where we found out what happened to the four main characters (it was interesting that the person who appeared to have won the day  possibly came of worst in the end - a message perhaps that success does not equal happiness).
All in all, a very clever film, well deserving of much more attention than it received when released.