I don't read much Amish, I confess, but when I saw this movie coming out, I was intrigued. Directed by Micheal Landon Jr, The Shunning was adapted from Beverly Lewis' bestseller. While I did enjoy the movie, the ending left a lot to be desired. I know the book The Shunning is the first in a three-part series, so I can only conclude (and hope) that they plan to adapt the rest of the books to film.

Katie Lapp is the heroine of the movie. She's 20, loves playing the guitar (which is forbidden by The Order), loves to sing (also forbidden), and has her misgivings about her upcoming nuptials to widower John, the new bishop. Danielle Panabaker played a very vivacious and endearing Katie, in my opinion. All the actors in the movie did wonderfully well, though I thought it was kind of humorous to see all the makeup the Amish actors wore. :-P Something tells me the real Katie Lapp wouldn't have gloss on her lips or heavy liner and mascara on her eyes.

The history between Katie and Daniel seemed interesting, though in this adaptation it seemed like we got only the tip of the iceberg. The whole movie was very well put together and the peak into what a "shunning" really means for an Amish person was interesting. A very hard, still, and severe punishment, in my opinion. (I would not make a good Amish person! ;-)

So while I enjoyed the movie, the ending was really abrupt and left so many unanswered questions. When the credits started rolling, I felt like the actual storyplot was just getting started! Here Katie Lapp was, just found out she was adopted, leaving her family behind to go into the world and discover who she really is....and the movie ends. So, while The Shunning made for an enjoyable family movie, be prepared to want more when the movie ends.

"Disclosure of Material Connection: I received one or more of the products or services mentioned above for free in the hope that I would mention it on my blog. Regardless, I only recommend products or services I use personally and believe will be good for my readers. I am disclosing this in accordance with the Federal Trade Commission's 16 CFR, Part 255: "Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising."