I don't write reviews about movies very often but I today I feel dutifully called.  I purchased "Danny Deckchair" as it was an interesting story line and it had a slew of positive reviews.  I believed them to be true.  I'm always looking for an interesting movie and this one set in beautiful Australia sounded funny and romantic, albeit predictable. The movie is loosely based on an actual "Larry the lawn chair balloon flight" near LA in 1982.

  In our story, the hapless hero Danny is a presented as a bumbling blue collar bricklayer whose live-in girlfriend dreams of meeting someone much more cosmopolitan than poor Danny.  She soon gets her opportunity at work when she sets up a lunch with a famous TV announcer to discuss real estate.  The only problem for her is that her lunchtime rendezvous requires her to cancel her and Danny's long awaited camping vacation.  Through a series of poorly orchestrated impromptu events, Danny learns of her duplicity and longs to leave her. At this point the script goes from the usual fuzzy to downright blurry and soon after we are in a backyard "barbie" with depressed Danny guzzling a beer in a lawn chair while his friends assist him in attaching helium balloons to the frame.  While his friends and neighbors look on, Danny chair is "accidentally" released and off he floats off into the wild blue.  If you must watch "Danny Deckchair", the next part of the movie is the best use of your time as you are treated to occasional bird's eye views of portions of the Australian outback.  I wished the producers would have expanded and lingered on his lawn chair flight as this was central to the movie, but of course, they didn't.

  Fortunately for Danny, he crash-lands in the backyard off an attractive, Good Samaritan, naive and single meter maid.  Sparing you more of the story line here I will state here that I clearly knew the story line would be simple and predictable.  What I didn't expect from reading prior reviews was how poorly scripted the movie would be.  The movie jumps from scene to scene without visual or verbal continuity leaving you wondering how you arrived.  At moments the scenes go from just bad to bizarre.  At one point Danny's meter maid friend hosts a giggling women-only art party featuring the local gay nude model who entertains them by demonstrating various poses including a pelvic rotating "lawn sprinkler" pose.  I will not criticize the acting given the script, but Danny the central figure has been poorly casted.  We are supposed to believe he's a lifelong bricklayer, but it's difficult to visualize him in that role when he's presented as clumsy, and is physically scrawny.  He just doesn't fit the part.

  I was hoping for better, actually even just acceptable.  But though Danny may appear to be promising based on some reviews, don't waste your time or money.  What are those reviewers thinking?  Dump Danny.
<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00005JNC5">Danny Deckchair</a>