By 1933, special effects in movies had really taken hold, and new bounds were being pushed to see just how far film makers could go in creating movie magic. Universal's foray into this new realm came in the form of H.G. Wells' The Invisible Man. After Frankenstein had become a worldwide phenomenon James Whale was given nearly untouchable status at Universal, with complete autonomy over any project he wanted. Universal had wanted a sequel to Frankenstein, but Whale was uninterested, as he did not like sequels. So, he suggested The Invisible Man, in order to draw the studio's attention away from the Frankenstein sequel. The studio went through countless rewrites and writers, before it was realized the H.G. Wells had final cut approval, so his story was restored, with a few changes for dramatic purposes.

Dr. Jack Griffin, played by Claude Rains, in his American film debut, had turned himself invisible with a drug called monocaine, before the film began. The movie opens with Griffin, covered in bandages, arriving at the Lion's Head Inn, in the small town of Iping, England. He demands a room and a fire, even though there are none ready, as it is the middle of winter, and off season. Jenny Hall, the innkeeper's wife, played by Una O'Connor, prepares a room for him, and brings him some supper. When she returns with the mustard that she'd forgotten, Dr. Griffin had removed the bandages covering his mouth, and she sees that his chin is missing, before he covers up. She joins her husband Herbert, played by Forrester Harvey, and the villagers downstairs, who are all gossiping on who the mysterious bandaged man is. For weeks, Dr. Griffin's fiance Flora, played by Gloria Stuart, best known today as Old Rose, from Titanic, worries about what has become of him. She begs her father, and Dr. Griffin's boss, Dr. Cranley, played by Henry Travers, to tell her where he is, but even he does not know. Dr. Griffin's colleague, Dr. Arthur Kemp, played by William Harrigan is upset at Dr. Griffin's treatment of himself and the Cranley's, particularly Flora, whom he is also in love with, though she does not return his feelings.

In Iping, Dr. Griffin has been working tirelessly to find the cure for his invisibility, with no success. His madness growing by the day, he knocks a lunch tray out of Jenny's hands and shouts at her, when she interrupts his work, and she gives her husband an ultimatum: Griffin leaves, or she will. Dr. Griffin pleads with Herbert not to throw him out, but as he hasn't paid his rent in a month, and his presence is driving other customers away, the innkeeper will hear none of it. When Herbert begins to pack up Dr. Griffin's equipment, the invisible man flies into a rage, and hurls him down the stairs. The police are called, and constable Jaffers, played by E.E. Clive, attempts to force Dr. Griffin to leave. He and the other men are frightened off when Dr. Griffin removes his bandages in front of them, and reveals his secret. When they return to force him out a second time, all they find is a floating, laughing shirt, until Dr. Griffin removes that, and is now completely invisible. He begins ranting about his newfound power, and how he can rule the world, and rob and wreck and kill, before attacking the constable and making his escape.

Dr. Griffin makes his way to Dr. Kemp's house, where a radio news broadcast is telling of Dr. Griffin's exploits in Iping. He forces Dr. Kemp to be his partner, and drive him back to Iping, so he can retrieve his notes. As Dr. Griffin is leaving the inn, still undetected by the townsfolk, he kills the chief of police, who'd come to the inn to prove that the invisible man was all a hoax.

Back at Dr. Kemp's house, Dr. Kemp has grown frightened of his friend and colleague and phones Dr. Cranley to come at once. Flora insists on joining him, and Dr. Griffin's madness subsides at the sight of her. They talk in his room, where he goes on another mad rant about his new absolute power. But Dr. Kemp had also phoned the police, and told them where to find the invisible man they'd been searching for. When the police descend on the house, Dr. Griffin's first thought is Flora's safety. Once she has left, he tells Kemp he knows that he called the police, and tells him that he will kill him the following night. He then runs out into the night to begin his reign of terror.

Claude Rains' distinct and powerful disembodied voice scared moviegoers across the country. After all, what could be more scary than being attacked by a man who you never even knew was there?

In 1940, after the success of Son of Frankenstein, Universal, now under new management, started cranking out horror sequels by the truckload. In The Invisible Man Returns, Sir Jeffery Radcliffe, played by Vincent Price, has been falsely convicted of murdering his brother, and sentenced to hang. His fiance, Helen Manson, played by Nan Grey, and their friend, Dr. Frank Griffin, played by John Sutton, conspire to save him from the gallows by turning him invisible. This Dr. Griffin is the brother of Dr. Jack Griffin, the invisible man from the first film. Invisible Man Returns was less a horror film, and more a murder mystery, with the invisible man in the role of the hero, struggling to clear his name before the effects of the duocaine, as the drug is called in this movie, drive him mad, like the previous invisible man. Richard Cobb, played by Sir Cedric Hardwicke, attempts to aid the trio, though not all is as it seems, as Mr. Cobb is concerned. Cecil Kellaway fills the role of the law man, Inspector Samson of Scotland Yard, and is the first to surmise that Sir Jeffery has become invisible, based on his knowledge of the case of Jack Griffin. He locates the case file, to jog his memory, and there is a photo on the top of Claude Rains, tying this film to the first one. Inspector Samson sets out to find Sir Jeffery, and return him to prison. He seems, at times, to almost enjoy the game of cat and mouse that he and Sir Jeffery are playing. As though bringing in the invisible man would be his ultimate achievement. Willie Spears, a perpetual drunk, played by Alan Napier thirty years before he was the world's most famous butler, Alfred Pennyworth, in the 1960's Batman TV show, was the former night watchman, and now superintendent of Radcliffe Collieries. He also knows more than he is telling about the murder of Michael Radcliffe. When Sir Jeffery confronts him, he believes that he is a ghost, and confesses everything he knows to him, before running away in terror.

The Invisible Man Returns had a very well written story and compelling characters, and was one of the better sequels that the new studio produced in the 40's.

1940 also saw the ladies take their turn at invisibility in The Invisible Woman, starring Virginia Bruce as Kitty Carroll, a fashion model with dreams of a better life, away from her overbearing and cruel boss, Mr. Growley, played by Charles Lane. She answers an ad, placed by the eccentric Professor Gibbs, played by John Barrymore, who seeks a human subject for his invisibility machine. The professor is absolutely flabbergasted when his test subject turns out to be a woman, as she would need to be naked for the experiment to work. His house keeper, Mrs. Jackson, played by Margaret Hamilton, one year after she'd promised to get Judy Garland and her "little dog, too", as the Wicked Witch of the West, in the Wizard of Oz, finds it very unsettling, but given the choice of victim or chaperone, she chooses the latter. The experiment is a success, and Kitty goes off to teach Mr. Growley a lesson he won't soon forget.

Professor Gibbs is paid a visit by three gangsters, led by Foghorn, played by Donald MacBride, who want to steal the machine to turn their boss invisible. But Kitty, still invisible, spoils their plan and sends them running. The professor attempts to call his benefactor, Richard Russell, played by John Howard, to come and not see the invisible woman, but she re-materializes. He convinces her to undergo the experiment again, after she calls Mr. Growley, who is behaving in a much more generous manner, and asks for the afternoon off. But Russell has had enough of the professor, and leaves for his lake house. The professor and Kitty follow him up there, and scare George the butler, played by Charlie Ruggles into finding Richard. Richard takes a liking to her, even though he has never seen her, but she passes out from too much brandy, which she'd drank to try to warm herself. Back at Prof. Gibbs' house, Foghorn and the other gangsters steal the machine, after locking Mrs. Jackson in a closet. The next morning, Kitty is still invisible, due to the effects of the alcohol, and they go back home, to find the machine missing. Professor Gibbs manages to make Kitty visible again, but the gangsters return, and take her and Prof. Gibbs to Mexico, where their boss, Blackie Cole, played by Oskar Homolka, wants to be made invisible. But Kitty takes a drink of pure grain alcohol, and turns herself invisible, for the final showdown.

The Invisible Woman was by no means a horror film, but it was a rather good old-time  comedy. Not a proper sequel, per se, but a fun little movie, all the same.

Two years later, in 1942, World War II taken hold, and the American propaganda machine was going strong. The Invisible Agent began with Frank Raymond aka Frank Griffin, played by Jon Hall, accosted in his print shop by German and Japanese agents, looking for the secret of invisibility. German, Conrad Stauffer, played by Sir Cedric Hardwicke, and Japanese Baron Ikito, played by Peter Lorre, who did not look remotely Japanese, but was an excellent actor, wanted the formula for invisibility. Frank was the supposed grandson of the original invisible man, Jack Griffin, mistakenly referred to as Frank Griffin Sr., even though Jack Griffin never had children, and Frank Griffin was the scientist in The Invisible Man returns, but was never made invisible, himself. To say the least continuity was thrown out the window, but this movie was less a sequel, and more a wartime propaganda film. Frank escapes, and brings the formula to the American government, after Pearl Harbor is bombed. He agrees to do so, on the condition that he alone be the one to use the drug. He is sent into Berlin to find the plans for a German attack on the United States, before the Nazis can carry it out. He is to use the invisibility to steal the plans from under Hitler's nose. Frank parachutes into Germany, going invisible on his decent, to meet up with British agent Arnold Schmidt, played by Albert Basserman. German soldiers witness the now invisible Frank taking his clothes off as he descends into Germany, landing on a barn. The soldiers go in after him, but he escapes, and heads to Berlin, where he meets Agent Schmidt, a German citizen who disagree with Hitler's ideology. Schmidt sends him to meet Maria Sorenson, and Frank travels there by calling a taxi from the cabstand across from Schmidt's workshop to her address, and riding the running boards. He arrives at the home of Maria, played by the beautiful Ilona Massey, and has a bath while she prepares to receive Karl Heiser of the SS, for dinner. Heiser, played by J. Edward Bromberg, confirms to Maria that Hitler did plan an attack on the U.S., he does not reveal the time or date, before Frank drives him away. Once he is gone, Maria reveals that she is a German double agent, who hates the Nazis for how they treat women. Once the other soldiers have left, Frank puts a robe on, and rubs some of Maria's cold cream on his face, in a welcome change from a headful of bandages.

Heiser returns to his office, to find Stauffer and Ikito waiting for him. When Stauffer sees Heiser's uniform, covered in his dinner he becomes very interested when Heiser tells him how the food seemed to creep up on him. Suspecting an invisible man, he goes to Maria's house to confirm his suspicions. Stauffer has Heiser arrested in front of Maria, to show her he has no problem arresting those closest to him, including her. He speaks of the plan to attack the U.S. in order to bait Frank into following him back to his office, where he springs a trap. Frank steals a book with the names of the German and Japanese agents in America, escapes by setting fire to the office, and climbing down the ladder when the fire department arrives. He takes the book back to Schmidt's and telephones Maria to let her know he's alive and has the book.

Frank visits Heiser in prison offers to free him in return for Heiser revealing the plan of attack. They both escape in the uniforms of the officers sent to take Heiser to be shot, and return to Schmidt's wood shop to find the SS waiting for them. Maria is also there, and attempts to warn Frank, but he doesn't believe her. They are both captured by Baron Ikito, who takes them to the Japanese embassy, where his surgeon, played by Keye Luke in one of his earliest roles, removes the hooks from the net used to capture Frank. Ikito wants the secret of invisibility. Frank and Maria escape to the airport to return to England, before the Nazis can attack the U.S..

Invisible Agent was a sequel only in the loosest sense, in that the name Griffin was used. Other than that, it was strictly a propaganda film, albeit a rather good one with a good cast, including Sir Cedric Hardwicke's least wooden performance in the Universal horror movies. He was a superb sinister villain.

Finally, in 1944, The Invisible Man's Revenge rounded out the series. Jon Hall played Robert Griffin, a fugitive on the run from the law. He returns to his old accomplices from a diamond expedition, Sir Jasper Herrick, played by Lester Matthews, and his wife, Lady Irene, played by Gale Sondergaard, to find that, after he was hit on the head, and left for dead, they took his share of the profits, and lost them through bad investments. He wants his share, even if it bankrupts the Herricks. They drug him, and leave him to be found by the police. He falls in a river when he comes to, and is pulled out by Herbert, played by Leon Errol. Herbert does not care for the Herricks, and he promises to help Robert get his money from them. He tries to blackmail the Herricks, but Sir Frederick Travers, the chief constable, played by Leyland Hodgson arrives, and threatens arrest. Herbert backs off, and throws Robert out of his house, when he returns home.

Robert, walking alone in the pouring rain, arrives at the home of Dr. Drury, played by John Carradine. Robert is only trying to find his way back to the main road, but the doctor invites him in out of the rain, upon hearing that Robert is a fugitive. The doctor has been experimenting with invisibility, and has made his dog, his parrot, and several other animals invisible. Now, he wants a human test subject. The idea of being invisible appeals to Robert, who wants to use the power to take his revenge on the Herricks. Dr. Drury had wanted to make his name in scientific journals and the newspapers, but Robert had other ideas. He left for the Herricks home, as soon as he was invisible. Once there, he confronts Sir Jasper, forces him to sign a confession, stating that he'd tried to kill Robert twice, and stole his share of the diamond mine. He also forces Sir Jasper to sign over his house and all his money to Robert. Lady Irene arrives and Robert reveals himself by dipping his hand in the fish tank, before she faints.

Robert goes back to Herbert's house, and reveals his invisibility. Herbert tells him he can't stay there, as he is losing his house, for lack of rent payment. That night they go to the local pub, and Robert helps Herbert cheat at darts to win money. Mark Foster, played by Alan Curtis, a local reporter, and Julie Herrick's fiance, is at the bar and receives a note from Julie, played by Evelyn Ankers, telling him not to come to her that night, as her parents are acting strange.

The next day, Robert orders Sir Jasper to run Foster off, as he wants Julie for himself. He goes back to Dr. Drury to be made visible again, thinking that he can make Julie love him. But to make him visible, Robert needs a total blood transfusion from another man. Robert wants the doctor to use Foster's blood. He forces the doctor to call Foster, but Dr. Drury calls the police, instead. When they call back to confirm, Robert answers, and kills Dr. Drury for deceiving him. He then takes the doctor's blood, and makes himself visible again. He then burns the house down and escapes. But the doctor's dog Brutus escapes when Foster and the police arrive, moments later. And Brutus doesn't like Robert.

Invisible Man's Revenge had the best special effects, yet. John P. Fulton had been involved with each of the five movies in the invisible collection, and his work set the new standard, each time. Revenge had the first ever moving camera shot of a man turning invisible, as well as the water and the flour on the face, allowing for partial invisibility. The only bad effects shot in the movie was the visible wires, when Robert lifts Mark Foster onto a table.

All of the movies in this set were very well done, even if they weren't all horror films, in the strictest sense. The original was a cinematic breakthrough, the effects of which are still felt today. The sequels were a fun little murder mystery, with a twist, a silly little comedy, a war propaganda film, and that last film was the closest thing to an actual horror sequel, with the title character being closer to a true villain.

On the first disc, there's the usual bonus materials, including an interesting documentary "Now You See Him, The Invisible Man Revealed" hosted by film historian Rudy Behlmer, full of interesting facts about the films and a good portion devoted to director James Whale.

Special effects had always been the hallmark of the Invisible movies, and all the 3D, digital, flashy, CGI that's packed into movies today, got it's start nearly 80 years ago when a disembodied voice brought a country to it's knees, and taught you that it's what you DON'T see, that gets you.