Please excuse me while I rant.

I was appalled by the complete lack of even the most elementary facts about the lives of honeybees. However, if you can give insects four legs instead of six, make them speak English, dress them up in sweaters, and make them fall in love with humans, I guess anything goes. *sigh*

First, honeybees have black bodies with yellow stripes, not the other way around. They do not pick a job and stick to it. Rather, as they age, they are genetically programmed to graduate to a vast variety of tasks in succession, spending the last halves of their lives as foragers. Male bees do NOT have stingers and they do ZERO work. In fact, they are barely tolerated by the workers and are kicked out of the colony at the end of the year. The hive, under normal conditions, is over 99% female. There are no hunky male "pollen jocks" sucking up pollen and spraying it everywhere because they somehow know it is good for flowers. In fact, the cartoon doesn't even portray the importance of pollen to the bees themselves. They somehow do it to be altruistic to the humans and flowers.

I am a beekeeper.  My main beef is that somewhere around the middle of the cartoon, the whole thing turns Marxist. Beekeepers are portrayed as evil exploiters of the apian working class, gassing them with smoke, laughing diabolically, generally behaving violently, and stealing their honey. Hmph. I love my bees and enjoy caring for them, as does every beekeeper. I treat them gently and they return the favor. In the movie, the bees end up suing the humans, and win, and all the honey is returned to the bees. Double Hmph. The bees get lazy and stop working. Nothing is pollinated, all plants die, and the world is on the verge of total collapse. (They got that part of the communist experiment right, at least.) Imminent doom is near. (Typical environmentalist hyperbole.)  The bees realize the consequences of their lawsuit and decide to start pollinating again to save the humans. (Typical happy ending that must be provided in every cartoon.)

OK. It's a cute movie with many witty moments but some parts are just cheesy and painful. I thought the portrayal of the defense lawyer as an out of control religious nut was particularly hilarious. In the end, the honeybees actually go back to work for the humans and both humans and bees have a renewed appreciation for each other, so the message in the end isn't entirely bad. Still, I don't like the idea that kids might leave the movie hating beekeepers and feeling guilty for eating honey "stolen" from the bees. Honeybees, by their nature, will usually produce up from one to four hundred pounds of honey per hive per year in excess of what they need for survival. It is their instinct to do this as long as they have the space and resources. We humans simply discovered how to manage the bees, give them plenty of good habitat, and harvest the excess crop. Good for us. Beekeepers have made plenty of mistakes along the way but that hasn't really included taking too much honey away from bees.  I challenge anyone to think of a tree that has a hollow big enough to produce such a vast storage space for honey as the modern Langstroth beehive.

I know, I know... it's only a cartoon, don't make such a big deal out of it. I do feel, though, that other cartoons have been much more true to the actual natural history and general biology of whatever species is being depicted and that this particular cartoon was both grossly scientifically inaccurate and overly political on various levels. In this movie, beekeepers were depicted as diabolically evil. There were also animal rights messages ... "Why is your life of any more value than mine?" is a particular quote by a bee that had me angry. One doesn't encounter that kind of unrealistic conflict between humans and animals in classics like Peter Rabbit.  Yucky.

A more accurate (and perhaps more interesting) cartoon would have explored the feminist world of the hive in which a few males enjoy their brief lives as sex workers with the queen, after which their genitals snap off and they die. The 99% female population would then gang up on the rest of the small male minority that never got to mate, wrestling the lazy SOBs out one by one to starve and freeze in the cold so that they could achieve their efficient female, collectivist utopia at last.... Muahahahahaha!

Of course, such a cartoon could not be rated G. :)