As the title suggests, I felt this was a very inspiring movie in terms of what faith can bring you. And that's saying a lot coming from me as I am not a religious person (though I do believe in a higher power). However, watching this movie and the sheer dedication that Denzel Washington portrays as Eli really inspired me and it was a brilliant showing of how faith can guide a person to their goals. Denzel turns in an overall great performance in his protrayal of Eli, who is on a mission to carry a book across a post-apocalyptic America. Traveling through barren wastelands and the occassional small town that has formed together, he lets nothing and no one stand in the way of his mission. Unfortunately along his trip he comes across a city where Gary Oldman's character is the self proclaimed leader of the city. Oldman's character is seeking out the book that Eli carries and will stop at nothing to get his hands on it. Gary Oldman turns in another wonderful performance as the villain in this movie and he and Denzel play off each other masterfully. I give a good bit of credit to the Hughes brothers for another excellent movie and superb direction in this film - I have greatly enjoyed all of their movies that I have seen thus far (Menace II Society, Dead Presidents, From Hell and Book of Eli).

Overall this was a great movie with plenty of action for those like hardcore action as well as a moving theme in the faith that Eli displays as he makes his way across the wasteland. My only beef with the home release (and some others have mentioned this) is why the heck do they release a blu-ray/DVD combo pack? They have done this with other movies as well and I just don't get it - I mean if one actually wants the blu-ray because they own a BD player (as I do), why in god's name would one want the DVD as well. Obviously one would choose to watch the movie in the highest quality available to him/her. It's a waste of money that inevitably jacks up the price of the package since it's extra media...maybe not by that much but still, I'd rather pay for just the BD and not have to pay ANY extra for the DVD that I will never watch. Oh well, there's no real use complaining since the movie companies will do what they want to do; but still, I personally think it's dumb. Well, that's all I've got, hope you find it useful and definitely see this movie if you haven't...or even if you have, watch it again.