Dan Brown continues to mislead and fool millions. If his first book already debunked and full of erros, then his sequel builds on errors and continues to mislead and fool more millions.

Dan Brown Da Vinci Code is a book based on the Gnostic Pagan work not the Bible. Dan falsely claim it to be from the Bible, misleading millions. Dan uses the Gnostic Gospel's were named after known bible characters to justify "Gnostic" doctrines
:Gnostic works contradicted the Both Old and New Testament scriptures...The God of the Old Testament was viewed as an evil demon and the serpent as good.
:Gnostic works were not connected to the Apostles...but battled their teachings
:Gnostic works quoted from the scriptures to weave in their doctrines...but the scriptures do not quote from Gnostic works.

The Gnostic took Christian names and terms and rebuilt Greek paganism.

:The God of the Old Testament was a God of the Jews and a low level evil angel who trapped mankind in a physical body. They called him,  "The Blind one", "Demiurge" the lesser power.
:Jesus came to deliver "Gnosis" knowledge from the "All-Father" the unknown God.
:Christ did not die on the Cross, but only a phantom.

Is the Da Vinci Code  the book accurate?

The Book is filled with historical and factual errors. Here are just a few to make the point.  If this book is wrong on such minor points why would anybody trust it for eternal issues?

  Brown's Error: The book claims there are 666 panes of glass on the pyramid outside the Louvre.  The Museum says there are 673.  (Page 21)

  Brown's Error: The book claims the Olympics were held for Venus in 8-year cycles but they were actually held for Zeus in 4-year cycles.  (Page 36)

  Brown's Error: Mona Lisa is an androgynous portrait representing the fusing of male and Female (Page 120)

  However, Mona Lisa is a young Florentine woman who in 1495 married the well-known figure, Francesco del Giocondo, and thus came to be known as ``La Gioconda'`.  This is confirmed by the discovery of documentation in Florence, Italy archives.  She had five children and two became nuns.

  Brown's Error: Sir Isaac Newton was a secret "Goddess Worshipper".  Yet it is well known that he was a devout Christian ...who wrote a commentary on the book of Daniel and Revelation and calculated the physical return of Christ between the years 2000 and 2050

  Brown's Error:  The Dead Sea Scrolls were found in the 1950's and included the Gospels.  History clearly show that these scrolls were found in 1948 and there were no Gospels found there.

  Brown's Error: The Gnostic Gospel, The Gospel of Philip was not written in Aramaic as the  Da Vinci Code implies but in Coptic, translated from Greek. (Page 246)
-------

Mary Magdalene was part of a group of women who were followers of Christ along with the disciples.  She was a witness to his resurrection and healing but nowhere in the Gospels is any marriage even hinted at in the slightest.  Jesus healed Mary Magdalene of demonic possession, the idea that Mary was the harlot of Luke 7:36-50 is only made because Mary Magdalene is mentioned in Luke chapter 8, following the story of the adulterous women in Luke 7:36-50.

  But the adulterous women of Luke 7 is not noted for demonic possession, but for adultery, she is told, "Go and sin no more", there is no mention of demonic possession, therefore Mary Magdalene is not the same women.

  Mary was just part of a group that followed Jesus and witnessed his works, death  and resurrection.