If you know of genre of 'disco movies' of the period, but missed this, it's a must. If not, it is conditionally a must-see.  Far from the first, whether you want to count "Saturday Night Fever" or even "Thank God It's Friday" (1978), nor the worst, "Xanadu" is the disco movie moved past that when time Hollywood 'got'the strong gay and umm, minority elements drivng much of disco music and clubs, and tried to appeal to it and also to the broad audience and at the same time. We know the result was not so broadly well received for this and several other films of the type. Now we can enjoy them, with a wink.

After all, though they had already been on American Bandstand and YMCA hit big in 1978, the US housewife stereotypically and the higher up the corporate or government ladder one went, the more clueless they were. Meaning the disco scene of their imagination was still hip to them; the Navy got close to filming the Village People in 1979 for a recruitment promo.  The wider public, far beyond the celeb clients still had a fascination with the out-of-sight reality of Studio 54 and fabu mega discos.

I would say for anyone younger who did not live thru the period at least as an older teen to watch "Xanadu" back to back with "Boogie Nights" - not needing to dwell on the sex and violence in "Boogie Nights" but its brilliant mise-en-scene (if I used that term correctly) to really 'get' "Xanadu". They complement each other more than one would expect.

I feel the "Xanadu" characters compulsive dream of opening the club "Xanadu" and the reality of its movie makers similar drive to conjure it up the production numbers as the significant club element had to come at some level from the 'high' of the disco-day reality of the 'Hollywood' creative community  at that time, some elements of whihc are portrayed to a significant degree in "Boogie Nights" [made 1997].  Note the disco scenes and the New Year's eve Dec 31 1979 party scene in "Boogie Nights". The hopeful and celebratory feeling in it was I felt back then is captured in the film - nothing in 'Xanadu" engages me in this way.

Xanadu has many promising elements, though the sum is much less than the parts.
It is still an eyeful in many ways, and has a great period pop soundtrack. If the stars were 'smaller' or any less earnest or skilled, I think it would be just an unfortunte laugh-fest.

Xanadu is far from the worst of its genre. If you hunger for more, and are ready to bottom fish, go straight for "Can't Stop The Music" -also 1980- [unless the Village People truly make you gag] and dare to hit bottom with Mae West's last movie, "Sextette" -again 1980-!  After seeing those that, Xanadu will truly charm you being a truly happy "medium" between the blockuster but oh so straight SNF and the cult camp crap Sextette!