"In space, no one can here you scream..."

I love this movie, I love this series. If it wasn't for Alien, we wouldn't have Aliens, Alien 3, or Alien: Resurrection. Alien was release in 1979 when all the other space movies were released. However Alien looks at the future space theme much differently then the cliched laser-guns, droids, and aliens who are all humanoid and understand every language. Alien envisions a much more down and dirty theme, with dark claustrophobic corridoors. Alien is the most tense and freaky of the Alien movies, Alien 3 is the only other alien movie that comes close to being as horrific.

Alien is better then other sci-fi movies because it is a much more acheivable future with one unique alien. It provides the indistructable image of the alien, which is kind of spoiled by Aliens (one of about the only things that Aliens did wrong). This movie is also the slowest pace of the Alien saga and as a result this film is much scarier then other horror movies. Most other horror movies just have a stupid guy with a bloody knife comming at you, trying to scare you with gore, and as a result, most horror movies are more disgusting then scary. Alien doesn't make this mistake, Ridley Scott is careful not to show too much of the alien because: one-it's easier to see its a guy in a suit if you see it clearly; and two-it adds to the tense atmosphere because your own mind can scare you more then what's on screen. Alien makes you afraid of what could be around the next turn or in the dark corners. Even if you like the gore of other crapy horror movies, alien can still satisfy you with its trade make chestburster scene :)

This movie also has some terrific acting, which is important to create the right atmosphere. The music is also important in adding atmosphere; at first this movie has very little music, but as you get more into the movie the music picks up and creates some tense moments. The effects in this movie are also pretty good concidering when it was filmed. I read one review here on Amazon that complained about the effects, and that he could see the strings in every scene, and this is simply not true. The idiot who wrote that review thought he could see the 'strings opporating the alien puppet' and this just proves how stupid this guy is because the alien wasn't even a puppet it was a guy in a suit; so he was clearly out looking for strings and thought he saw some that weren't even there! Oh, and I can never forget about H.R. Giger, the geniouse behind the alien design. If it wasn't for Giger the alien in this film would probably have turned out like every other E.T. or Creature from the Black Lagoon (not that I have anything against these movies); which would probably have kept Fox from ever making the series. Giger also designed the Alien egg, space jockey, the strange planet's surface, the alien ship, the facehugger and the alien chestburster (with assistance).. did I forget anything else? Probably. But don't take my word for it, buy this new DvD. It has a great 'making of' documentary, and two versions of the movie: the theatrical release, and the director's cut (which is pretty much the same as the theatrical release, its just longer with restored scenes!)

All in all, Alien is a unique film that I salute for introducing the series, and for being an amazing stand alone movie. I will never stop watching this movie, no matter how old it gets, or how much I memorized the dialogue. If you haven't seen this movie, SEE IT NOW! If you haven't seen any of the Alien movies, I STRONGLY recommend that you see this one fisrt. Alien is suitable for anyone who likes any of the following movie genres: science-fiction, horror, suspense, drama, or old classics. So curl up on the couch with some pop corn and pop in this DvD, but don't get too comfortable, because you may prefer to hide behind the couch instead.