Based on a book by Stephen King, `Apt Pupil' is a movie that is as fascinating and entertaining as it is disturbing. Sometimes it is wiser to let the past remain in the past, as high-school student Todd (Renfro) finds out. After studying the Holocaust in school, Todd personal research leads him to former Nazi concentration camp commander Kurt Dussander (McKellen), who is living in his neighborhood. Todd threatens the old man with exposure as a war criminal unless Dussander tells Todd all his `stories', `everything they're afraid to show us in school'. Thus began Todd's unusual relationship (though never friendship, as Todd's motives were neither friendly nor sincere) with the ex-Nazi officer. Soon things began to spiral out of control. Dussander had been living as a recluse before Todd's interference, but now Todd had triggered off Dussander's memories, with deadly consequences. Todd's morbid fascination with Dussander led him to treat Dussander as a stooge, buying him a SS Officer uniform as a Christmas gift and making Dussander march at his sadistic command. Not one with a kind heart in the first place, Todd kills a pigeon with a broken wing at his school gym, has a nasty confrontation with his well-meaning best friend and displays other behavioral changes after being haunted by Dussander's `stories'. Dussander tries to kill a neighbor's cat, Todd's grades slip, Todd makes a deal with his guidance counselor, the friendly neighborhood tramp witnesses Dussander donning the SS uniform and the plot generally thickened and grew more intense. While `Apt Pupil' is a praiseworthy departure from the traditional teen horror flick, many questions are left unanswered, for instance; How did a teenager manage to identify the elderly man as a Nazi war criminal when the governments and even the Interpol failed to do the same? Also, at the interrogation of Todd, why did his pathetic and contradictory answers fail to rouse the suspicion of the investigating panel? Why did the police not keep a closer watch on their detainee when they knew it was a Nazi war criminal they had in their custody? A weak ending also limited the potential of the movie to become a classic. An exciting film if you believe that there is at least a little evil even in the best and brightest of us, otherwise an insult to the memory of the Holocaust.