The good news - not since its original theatrical release has there been a brighter, cleaner, more colorful print available.  The THX restoration in both conventional pan and scan and widescreen versions is the definitive  one.  Gone are the fuzziness and color bleeding of past video prints. The  superb warm DeLuxe color is returned to glory and the stereophonic sound is  vibrant and rich. In the widescreen version some of the compositions are  stunning: Anna, Louis, Captain Orton, the horizontal line of slaves and the  Kralahome in the first ship scene; the horizontal processional through the  marketplace to the Palace; the first shot of the King high on a distant  throne surrounded by gold; dictation of the letter to Lincoln with Anna and  the King filling the screen in prostration; the emphasized separation of  Lun Tha and Tuptim in the "We Kiss In A Shadow" scene, placed at  opposite ends of the screen reaching across to each other; the Act One  Finale in the temple with the King and Anna again filling the scene in a  prostration test (Who is taming who?); the polka sequence; and most  tellingly one of the last shots at the King's deathbed with Anna in  close-up at far left of screen, the King in the center and Chulalongkorn  and Lady Thiang subordinate in the upper right of screen - emphasizing  Anna's final dominance over the court. New to this print, emphasizing the  original theatricality of the work, is an overture, intermission entr'acte  music and exit music - never in the original print, but derived from  masters of Alfred Newman's background scoring: the Overture consists of  "Western People Funny" and "I Have Dreamed" from Anna's  unpacking scene, segueing into the intro to "Shall We Dance"  underscoring and ending with the polka itself; the Entr'acte takes the  underscoring of Anna's and Lun Tha's first meeting, using "I Have  Dreamed" and "Hello, Young Lovers" from that scene, sequeing  into "I Whistle A Happy Tune" and a repeat of the "Shall We  Dance? polka; Exit Music is the "March of the Siamese Children"  lifted in whole from that scene.  The only bad news: there are so many  scenes stuffed with people all shot from head to toe or at least head to  knee, that the images are often so tiny as to hurt the eyes; also this  makes for difficulty reading a lot of facial expressions.  Ideally you  should buy both the pan and scan AND the widescreen editions of this  restoration.  If you're a fan of the work, RUN to acquire both and have the  definitive editions to study and enjoy. Note: Both "Western People  Funny" and "I Have Dreamed" so notably used in the Overture  and Entr'Acte, are never heard in the film except as background scoring.  Also with these added musical portions the running time of 133 minutes is  extended by eight or nine minutes.