The three words "of all time" get thrown around a lot in this day and age, and I am not innocent of constantly uttering them myself, in effect watering down their significance. But when I say that Wrestlemania X7 is the greatest Wrestlemania -- even greatest PPV -- OF ALL TIME, I am not exaggerating. Everything from the opening montage to the post-main event celebration was electric live on PPV and none of that electricity is lost on DVD.
This was a Wrestlemania that WWF needed to succeed, what with the failure of the previous year's Wrestlemania 2000. The WWF attained that success with X7, in everything from the card to live attendance to PPV buys. Most of the matches had well built storylines and were just great matches in themselves. Another treat was the Gimmick Battle Royal featuring special appearances by the always-welcome Bobby Heenan and Mean Gene.
One aspect to this PPV that made it such a success was the diversity of the card. Wrestlemania 2000 was bogged down in tag team matches, triple threats and unproven wrestlers. X7, however, had something for everyone. Technical wrestling fans will drool over Benoit vs. Angle for years to come. Hardcore fans love the TLC II match. Fans of the over-the-top storylines were into the father vs. son match. And fans of the industry's top two stars at the time, Stone Cold Steve Austin and The Rock, will always remember fondly their main event that night on April Fool's day in 2001.
The DVD extras aren't much, but what do you need with extras when the PPV event itself gives you one hell of a show? Even with all of the positives on this show, there are some negatives. In the aformentioned father vs. son match, fans did not react well to Shane's WCW allegiance and this slightly took away from the impact of his win over Vince, although it was more Linda McMahon's win than Shane's. Also, some of the other matches just didn't click for whatever reason. Although a very decent opener, Regal vs. Jericho was a bit off, as the latter was going 100MPH and Regal just didn't seem to be in key that night. Chyna vs. Ivory was an atypical squash match akin to those we used to see on WWF Superstars in the late 80's. But one of the greatest advantages DVD has over VHS is the ability to go to the next scene instantaneously at the press of a button. 
Wrestlemania is WWF(E) and pro wrestling at its best. Get this DVD.