I've been a huge fan of "A Nightmare on Elm Street" since I was seven years old. I remember the first time I saw Mr. Krueger in "Freddy's Dead: The Final Nightmare," I became an instant fan. I wasn't terrified because the series had gotten to the point where the only thing Freddy did was kill teenagers and crack jokes, but it was okay. I even remember dressing up as the dream demon for Halloween that year. I'm a huge fan of horror movies now, and I owe it all to this series. Anyways, on with the review. This is quite possibly the best DVD box set I have ever seen. I've never seen so many extras in my life. The first night I had this set, it took me about three to four hours just to watch the entire bonus disc, entitled "The Nightmare Series Encyclopedia", which includes the "Welcome to Primetime" documentary and "The Labyrinth" maze game that reveals more extras. This puzzled me at first, but once I got the hang of it, everything worked out. The caged door puzzle still confuses me because I have no idea if there are any other features in this fixture, even though the main one here is the second alternate ending to the first movie (sorry if I gave it away lol). As far as the movies go, the first "Nightmare" will always be my favorite because it set the series in stone, showcased Johnny Depp in one of his first starring roles, and turned Freddy Krueger into a household name. Unlike a lot of people, I actually like "Freddy's Revenge," but that doesn't mean that I'm putting it at the top. The rules for this follow-up may have been broken, but I still consider it to be a good movie, despite it's script problems. Plus, there are many funny parts to it and a Freddy who still hadn't shown his comical side to all admirers. Therefore, it comes in at #6 on my list. "Dream Warriors" ranks at #2 on my personal list because it not only brought Wes Craven back to the series as a writer, but also marked the return of Heather Langenkamp to the role of Nancy and John Saxon as her father, Lieutenant Thompson. This film also starred a young Laurence Fishburne and introduced the world to director and screenplay writer Charles Russell ("The Mask," "The Scorpion King"), his writing partner Frank Darabont, and a young girl by the name of Patricia Arquette. Also, you couldn't beat the special effects on this sequel. "The Dream Master" ranks at #3 on my list because there was a great storyline and great characters, including Kristen (this time played by Tuesday Knight), Kincaid, Joey, Alice, and Rick. There is also one of the greatest lines in series history in this sequel ("I am eternal.").You really can't top the final fight scene between Freddy and Alice or Renny Harlin's direction for this film. "The Dream Child" comes in at #7, or last, on the list because it really didn't seem as well done as any of it's predecessors. The fact that an unborn child can have nightmares seems ludicrous, but it still turned out to be a good movie, even though it is at the bottom of the barrel. There is a great song from Kool Moe Dee during the end credits, but I can't leave out the Whodini video that is included on the bonus disc of this collection. "Freddy's Dead: The Final Nightmare" comes in at #5 on the list. I once considered it to be the second best because it got me hooked onto Krueger Juice, but it doesn't beat the storylines of parts one, three, four, or seven. The great thing about this disc in the set is that it comes with two pairs of 3-D  glasses for the final fifteen minutes, which is totally exclusive because it was the first ever 3-D DVD. This totally adds to the experience. The movies good because it had a great role for Yaphet Kotto as Doc, the guy who mentors these kids at a homeless shelter, but I've also gotta give props to Lisa Zane as Maggie, the person who runs this home for troubled teens. We also get a first look at a young Breckin Meyer in the role of the pot smoking, video game addicted Spencer. Freddy's more comical in this sequel, but still entertaining. And finally, "Wes Craven's New Nightmare" comes in at #4 on the list. This film is extraordinary because Freddy is found in real life and begins haunting Heather Langenkamp and her young son. Cameos in this film include Wes Craven, head of New Line Cinema, Robert Shaye, Tuesday Knight, and, of course, Robert Englund. This movie didn't fare well at the box office, but still proved to be one of the series' best entries. This movie could also possibly be looked at as a prequel to the "Scream" trilogy. Don't count this movie out for anything. So, once again, here are the rankings:

1.) "A Nightmare on Elm Street"

2.) "A Nightmare on Elm Street 3: Dream Warriors"

3.) "A Nightmare on Elm Street 4: The Dream Master"

4.) "Wes Craven's New Nightmare"

5.) "Freddy's Dead: The Final Nightmare"

6.) "A Nightmare on Elm Street 2: Freddy's Revenge"

7.) "A Nightmare on Elm Street 5: The Dream Child"

So, with all that being said, if you're a big fan of Wes Craven, Freddy Krueger, or horror, in general, be sure to pick up this set. And remember, "whatever you do, don't fall asleep." Sweet dreams. Ha ha ha ha ha!!!