This is supposed to be a thriller.  OK, whatever...the viewer obviously knows that Will Smith will emerge from this harrowing adventure more or less intact, so there really isn't any tension created by putting his character in peril.  Therefore, the only tension &amp; suspense the producers of this film can hope to create comes from playing on the audience's sense of paranoia.  "Oh my god, what if the government really IS watching my every word &amp; deed?"  thinks the audience.  Oh my god, this could actually be happening!  All you have to do is read some of the reviews here and you will see that paranoia is a major factor in this film's appeal.
All I could think of as I watched this film is, give me a break.  One rogue NSA bureaucrat, supported by a handfull of computer geeks, and they are supposed to be able to conduct an operation this vast?  Are you kidding me?  Has anyone ever heard of information overload?  I don't doubt that a good deal of this technology exists, but let's get real folks --- if the NSA was really conducting surveillance on this scale, the amount of raw data the agency would have to sift through simply boggles the mind.  The NSA would have to employ half the population of the USA to spy on the other half.  If the NSA's surveillance is this bush-league, most of us could commit all manner of security breaches and never get caught!  Ironically, I found myself feeling more secure about not being scrutinized by the government after having seen this film.
As to the film itself --- sure, all the chase scenes were gripping, the camera angles were great, blah blah blah.  The production values in this movie are top-notch, but so what?  Bruckheimer &amp; Tony Scott can do movies like this in their sleep, so it's no big deal.  The same can be said for Jon Voight &amp; Gene Hackman, who pretty much phone it in with their roles.  From a production standpoint, this movie is indistinguishable from the hundreds of other so-called thrillers that the Hollywood machine has churned out over the last few years.  Ho hum.  Overall, this just really was a thoroughly mediocre film.