After making masterpieces such as 'Laura', one would wonder what Otto Preminger would have thought by accepting this 1965 thriller. Carol Lynley is a recent arrival to London after the death of her husband. She and her daughter Bunny are moved into a flat with the help of her brother Steven (Keir Dullea), and she begins Bunny at a day school. But after dropping her off, when she goes to pick her up, no one can remember her at all. It's as if Bunny never existed. Even the Scotland Yard
detective (Laurence Olivier) starts to believe that Bunny is the figment of a young woman's delusions.

This film does have a lot of excellent points: Carol Lynley is excellent as Ann Lake, showing a toughness that most actresses would go over the top with. She remains justifiable and sure footed in her search for the missing Bunny. Keir Dullea works well with Ms. Lynley, possessing a certain creepiness about him through the entire picture. Martita Hunt, Lucie Mannheim, and Anna Massey are excellent in supporting roles, and Noel Coward is his bitchy, acerbic self as the Lake's new landlord.

Two question marks remain for me about this movie: Otto Preminger and Laurence Olivier. Both are stars of the silver screen, winning accolades for complex and powerful performances and direction. This movie seems ill suited for either one of them, a psychological thriller that works on one level, but on others, seems convoluted and confusing. Why would anyone just leave their child alone in a daycare without a teacher around? And, seriously, would you leave your child in a school that had more than a few missing children THAT THEY ADMIT TO LOSING without checking into their background first????

Olivier's performance isn't hammy (as it became in latter years..'The Jazz Singer' is a true howler), but it seems ill suited to him. He shows a depth of sympathy for the young woman, but also appears disinterested. Preminger's direction, while sharp, strays close to horror schlock, especially towards the climax.

This film upon it's initial release in 1965 was not a hit, and many dismissed it as a blemish upon Preminger's stellar career. While it holds up today as a creepy little thriller with some fine performances, it isn't the classic that it might have been.