I recently saw this movie again after having seen it in high school when I was 15. It's amazing how differently you experience it 16 years later when you're all grown up, but yet it's still very enjoyable to watch. The first time around, I thought the overall coolness/hip factor was through the roof (rehabilitated high school geek. Sue me), with the music and the humor and attitude. This time around, the kitch (sp?) factor was what kept me glued to the set, while the cinematography still held up.  This movie still has a great visual presence all these years later.  Casting seems a little odd when you think about it today.  To see actors of the caliber of Kiefer Sutherland, Diane Weist, and Jason Patric in a movie with the two Coreys and that guy who played Bill in "Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure"  seems like a weird mix, but back then they all had a good screen chemistry together, believe it or not.  Although the movie was revered for it's soundtrack, which had a great mix of songs, I don't know if I would have chosen some of those artists for a rock and roll horror movie.  The setting for the movie had more of a punk/metal/goth/glam look and feel to it, which I don't think Elton John really fits well with.  Also, in one part of the movie, you see people headbanging to some poppy saxaphone music act led by a muscle-bound oily boy with a ridiculous looking super-mullet who looks like Michael Bolton on steroids.  All I could think was that it should have been someone like Glenn Danzig or Corrosion of Conformity or somebody who fit the whole vibe/setting a little better.  Also notice later in the movie that when they take Michael to make his first kill in the campfire scene, they have punks and skinheads dancing around a bonfire to a Run DMC remix of Aerosmith's "Walk this Way."  I think in the real world if you were punk or skinhead and you were caught listening to rap music, they would confiscate your doc martens and make you walk home naked, dragging the stone of shame behind you (d'oh!).  heh-heh-heh, good times....