I guess I don't see what all the hype is about.  This is a story about two kids who were sexually abused.  As adults, one is a hustler, the other obssesed with UFO's and his childhood blackouts.  At the end the "big secret" about the nature of his blackouts is revealed....I bet you can already guess what it is.  Well, its no secret in the movie either, and the pretense of a secret or a mystery is laughable.  Its obvious.  So there's no real secret or mystery, what about the characters?  The two protaganists, beyond the fact that they were victimized, are not likeable.  One is a perp himself, the other is shallow, introverted, and withdrawn.  Yes, these are two basic routes that people take when dealing with this kind of abuse, but these characters are painted too broadly to be sympathetic.  Well then, what about the overall theme of abuse?  Is there anything redeeming or instructive for the viewer?  The answer is a resounding no.  What the film amounts to is watching two kids get abused, watch them act out in screwed up ways as adults, wrestle with the emotions, and ultimately, come to no insight or resolution themselves.  Nothing is stated about the ultimate fate of the abuser or the two victims.  So what's the point?  I'm not sure.  You do feel horrible for the two main characters, but beyond that, there IS no point.

Now for the worst part.  Near the end of the movie, one of the characters describes in graphic detail exactly what was done to the boys.  Worse than that, he describes the events in weirdly gleeful terms.  As he describes it, we see the events acted out...not in detail, but still.  Now, I have no problem with this if it is to serve some greater artistic end.  Unfortunately, here it doesn't.  The only point I can see is perhaps if someone didn't realize that this type of sick stuff goes on, they may have some realizations.  I DO know that it goes on, I DON'T need to hear it described UNLESS it serves some greater purpose.

This is very very potent and sensitive material, and in the right hands it can make for a powerful movie.  In this film, it has a disturbing hint of compassion exploitation.

Let me just say finally that just before I watched this, I watched a film called Tarnation that touched on some of the same topics in a much much deeper way....