I feel compelled to say right away, that this documentary does get a bit bland and boring during some segments, and although the information presented is worth its cost, there are other DVD's out there that do a much more entertaining job in informing its viewers about the benefits of a plant based diet (entertaining, not better I want to stress).

The reason why I bought this DVD, was simply because of Dr Colin Campbell, who has made it his life work to challenge our conventional wisdom about dietary excellence and what it actually constitutes. His magnum opus if you will, is his book 'The China Study' which he coauthored with his son, one of the most important studies ever done about how diet and diseases are linked.

First and foremost, to the uniformed, the idea of a plant-based diet, devoid of any or having very little animal products (eg meat and dairy) can be a pretty challenging and scary thought. The first instinct is to criticize this premise. But perhaps the best retort to people who object, is to ask, whether or not our current eating patterns as a nation deserve to be called 'healthy'?

I live in Australia, and currently it is the most over-weight nation on earth (the U.S.A. is the most morbidly obese) and everywhere I walk, I see more than my fair share of over-weight people. Obviously something has gone wrong, you can blame the government, fast-food corporations, the 'Americanisation' of the worlds food supply or whatever, the fact doesn't change though that the current eating patterns of most developed, English speaking countries is horrendous. So if what we did, was simply dramatically increased our consumptions of fruits, vegetables and whole grains, eliminated or reduce animal products and stayed away from processed foods, the result would be a healthier and slimmer YOU!

It seems like commonsense, but sometimes commonsense is very uncommon.

The current low carb craze spreading like wildfire is a new phenomenon. But if you watch this DVD, it explores nations in Asia, whose main source of calories is rice, a carbohydrate! People in Asia eating a traditional high carbohydrate diet, are trim don't usually don't suffer from the health afflictions plaguing the West. Why is that so, is it a genetic predisposition towards wellness that people in Asia have? Well that can't be it, because it's well documented that the more acculturated people from Asia become to the Western diet, their risk of heart disease and cancer sky rockets like everyone else's in the West. So that can't be it?

This DVD explores the research of Dr Colin Campbell and Dr Caldwell Esseltyn, and how they found the answer to questions like this, and many more, whilst butchering a few sacred cows in the process (speaking metaphorically of course).