This has to be one of the best movies I have seen, and one of the best movies adapted from a book I have seen, Congratulations to the director! This is an amazing film and highly recommended in DVD format too - it is something I will be watching again and again.

The movie is very faithful to the book which is great. The opening scenes of the film do set a scene which is not in the book although they do help to reinforce why Edmund is so surly with his family. It is war time and he is missing his father dreadfully. The four children (Peter, Susan, Edmund and lucy) are sent to the country to stay with the professor and his very rigid housekeeper.

They quickly become bored but try to be good - and play hide and seek. Lucy finds a wardrobe full of fur coats and slips inside - only there is no back to the wardrobe and she slips into the world of Narnia which you can get to through the back of the Wardrobe. It is winter there and she meets Mr Tumnis, a faun who takes her back to his house for tea. (Perhaps not the best message to be sending children in this day and age! yet quite in keeping with the time and genre)

When Lucy returns to through the wardrobe she has been away overnight in Narnia, but has only been gone a few seconds in real time. None of the other children believe her story of having gone away, and the wardrobe seems solid. Lucy however is determined to go back, and this time when she goes Edmund follows her but loses her on the other side. He gets pickedup by the white witch who feeds him sweeties (sweets were rationed in Britain during wartime so they would have been a very powerful bribe for a small boy!) and manages to convince him to bring his brother and 2 sisters back to Narnia - Edmund also reveals that Mr Tumnis has harboured his sister.

The four children eventually slip into Narnia and the action really begins, Mr Tumnis has been arrested by the secret police (a very scary pack of wolves) and the children are rescued by a pair of cockney beavers who take them to Aslan.

Their adventures in Narnia are very much a parable for the crucifixion, Aslan gives up his life for Edmund, to be humiliated and killed on the stone table. Yet, in allowing himself to be a willing sacrifice for man he allows Narnia to survive.

This is also all about love, forgiveness and loyalty. The four children are torn by their desire simply to get back to their own world once they have found Edmund again yet they also understand that they must help Narnia fight its battle against the White Witch, who is stronger, and has more troops (and very scary ones at that)

The film is amazing. From the animals such as the faun Tumnis and the centaurs (on an intimate scale) to the large army of repellent creatures which the white queen had. On a particular note, I was especially amazed by the two polar bears the queen had pulling her chariot.

I felt the children were very well chosen for the parts. They looked appropriate for their roles and they were excellent actors. The actor who played Mr Tumnis was a real scene stealer - utterly superb in the part and just how one would expect a faun to act.

It is a longish movie, and quite frightening in parts. It is not something I would want my young children to see but once they get older this is definitely a movie I would like them to see and understand.

Just on a final note. Adamsom has learnt a lot from his animation - the shrek movies are amazing, and he has transferred that skill here - the changing perspectives are wonderful. The battle scenes were extraodinary - there is the opening scene where the griffin is flying over the batte field and the camera appears to follow it in its swooping flight path. The scene that keeps coming to my mind mostly when I think of Adamson's skill is where the two armies are galloping towards each other with Peter at the fore. There is music playing as Peter begins his charge, then as they get closer you see them from the side - the two armies drawing nearer and the music finishes to nothing more than a heart beat - it is almost silence. I can hardly describe what I felt to see this, the anticipation is heightened and the drama of it. I felt my heart rise to my throat and realised I was crying. It was at once beautiful and horrible.

This is a well crafted film on all levels - the adaptation of the book, the choice of actors, the animation, the direction and, well - everything. I enjoyed it immensely and will be watching it again and again.