Khalyn King
6\19\2011
Language Arts P.5
The Princess and the Frog - Pleasure Book

Amazing, creative, and historical. All these words can explain the Disney movie called The Princess and the Frog. This movie was made in 2009 and received a 7.3 out of 10 rating. It was inspired by E.D. Baker's novel, "The Frog Prince".
The main characters in this movie where Tiana, Prince Naveen, Dr. Facilier, Louis, Charlotte Labouff, Big Daddy Labouff, and James. This movie took place in New Orleans.
In the beginning, a young girl named Tiana lives in a small house with her mom and dad. Her dads dream was always to have his own restaurant. He passed away before his dream came true, she finally gets enough money but someone else brought the place for more money. In the end gets kissed by a royal frog and eventually ends up liking him and they get married and live happy ever after.
This is a modern day retelling of the classic story of the Frog prince. A young girl named Tiara was a strong woman who never gave up on what she believed in. His goal always was to own the restaurant her dad never had because he passed away. Her mom, Endora, always supported her in anything Tiara wanted to do. She had a good friend named Charlotte Labouff who helped her get her "dream place". Once Tiara had enough money to buy the place, the owners told her she couldn't buy it because someone offered a higher price. She was depressed but the next day she went to her friend's party. Charlotte is rich and her dad has a lot of money, she gets whatever she wants, and the prince, named Naveen is at her party. She is supposed to get married with the prince until a certain person gets in the way of all that. The prince makes a bad decision and ends up turning into a frog, while Lawrence looks exactly like him. The only way for him to turn back to himself is to kiss a princess. He mistakenly kisses Tiara, thinking that she is a princess, and she turns into a frog as well. Now with the help of a alligator named Louis, a firefly, and an old lady named mama Odie, they dug a little deeper into the heart and realized that they loved eachother. The two frogs end up getting married and both turning human again and living happily ever after.
My opinion on the movie is that it is truly one of a kind. It was unique as well as entertaining. This great movie always kept you thinking what was going to happen next. I recommend this movie to children 15 and below, it reminds me of something I would watch when I was younger. I also recommend this movie to people who enjoy fantasy and happy endings.