This movie prompted me to buy DODSWORTH, the book by Sinclair Lewis.  I found the movie version much better, as the book is weighted down into the brink with Fran Dodsworth sniping and snobbery, and I really hated her way too soon, whereas in the movie, I could hold back from wanting to slap her by Sam Dodsworth's devotion to her.  Sam Dodsworth is a man of considerable character and intelligence, who after making a fortune in the auto industry, sells off his business and sails off onto a European extended trip with his spoiled wife.  His attitude is to take this time to broaden his horizons, learn something of his family background, educate himself historically, and fall in love with his wife Fran again.  Fran's attitude is make herself a centerpiece of upper-class European sophistication, of which she feels entitled to after putting in years of running their home and raising their daughter.  You almost get the feeling that she's been marking off the days on a wall, maybe somewhere in the attic, to the day when she'll be able to begin the life she has been fantasizing about for so long in Zenith, Michigan.  Fran's frantic desire for attention from men makes you wince with pain for Sam, but he is so patient with her and so true to her, that you want to be on his side and keep giving her another chance, and another and another.  Thank God for Edith Cortwright (Mary Astor).  I learned later that at this time in Mary Astor's life, she was going through a very public divorce, with hints at adultery and a "purple" diary.  Mary Astor's first lines in Dodsworth are said off camera, and when the movie came out in the theaters, Mary wrote that at the sound of her voice the audience exploded in applause.  She wrote that this show of affection from the public was so comforting to her, but I like to think some of the applause was the audience perhaps knowing the story and realizing Hurray, here's the woman who is going to save Sam Dodsworth from his wife.  To be totally fair, though, Fran is someone to be pitied, because she is so lost and blinded about the fine and true love she had all the time with her husband.  A great movie and a great cast.  You won't be sorry to add this film to your collection