First of all I would like to thank Angelina Jolie for even picking up such a horrific topic and bringing it to the big screens, showing the world at least a little bit of what happened in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the Serbian Aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina.
This movie doesn't even begin to show what kind of despicable wartime atrocities were committed against the Bosniaks (mostly Bosnian Muslims) during the Serbian Aggression, but at least it gives a glimpse to the outside world of what happened. This movie helps to make sure no one forgets that 50 years after the Holocaust another Genocide was committed in the middle of Europe while the United Nations as well as NATO and the rest of the world were sitting in their comfortable chairs watching it happen.
There have been even worse rapes (Bosniak women and their daughters being raped in front of the eyes of their fathers / brothers / sons, Bosniak women being raped while having to watch how their fathers / sons / brothers are being slaughtered, attempts to force Bosniak men to rape their own mothers or sisters and in the end being killed for not doing so, young girls - 12 or 13 years old - being repeatedly raped by Serbs, Bosniak women jumping from the roofs or 3rd storey windows of notorious rape camps into sure death just to escape mass rapes, ca. 140 people - many of them children, even 2 days young babies - locked in houses and set on fire alive, etc. etc.). This movie doesn't even begin to show everything that happened, if it was - the movie would have been declared a triple-X-rated "HORROR MOVIE", but at least it shows the tip of the iceberg. It helps us to make sure the world doesn't forget what happened in the 1990's in the middle of Europe.
As for the movie itself, all I can say is that I was impressed what a great job Angelina Jolie did. It's not easy to pick up such a topic for your directorial debut, hence all I have to say is: RESPECT! Not only to her, but also to all the great actors from the Balkan, who also did the best job they could under such circumstances (most of them did actually lose family memebers during the war and lived through hell themselves).