END OF THE SPEAR is about what sounds like a relatively mundane story. Five US citizens set out to Ecuador to try to befriend what at that time was considered to be the most violent tribe on the planet at the time. It appeared that the US citizen were making progress when suddenly the tribe went ballistic on them and murdered them in cold blood.

It was in 1956 and the news blared across the world. Most older people will remember that story well. There was a large photo spread and coverage in LIFE MAGAZINE and it was quite the talk of the world for a while.

After these men were murdered, some of the wives of the murdered men went to live (touting their young children) with the tribe as a sort of an oxymoron- to get something out of their husband's lives being given up- so that they would not have died in vain.

Eventually, the tribe had a huge transformation and they are completely different people today.

Sounds kind of boring - at least it did to me- why would I want to see such a story? I mean these men knew what they were getting in to (4 or 5 other men were murdered in the previous decade so they knew what they were up against), I was puzzled as to the big shock of the murders..........

END OF THE SPEAR is the story told from the more compassionate and youthful perspective of Steve Saint, son of Nate Saint, one of the murdered US citizens. Instead of the dry statistical account of the situation, suddenly I found myself experiencing the entire event as if Nate Saint was my father and I was his son.

This story is told from the perspective of the Waodani tribe who open themselves up with a childlikeness that's both beautiful and disarming.

When asked in a filmed documentary to describe what their lives were like before the murders (I was fortunate to see some interviews on television before the movie came out- you can see them and more in the documentary BEYOND THE GATES OF SPLENDOR), they list the lifestyle of unending murders that plagued their people almost to the point of extinction. Accounts of each murder in the history of each tribe member is reenacted with animation and detail- every person in the tribe lost many family members due to the constant stream of cold blooded killing.

When a man in a family died, it was customary to bury the youngest child or child of choice by the father or mother with the dead or dying man ALIVE. One could only imagine how each child would die a frightening and painfully slow death. (knowing that before you see the movie might be helpful).

To break that cycle, one of the tribe's girls runs away to outsiders so that she will not have to die that way with her father who clamors for her company in his grave.

This escaped girl moves in with Rachel Saint and other women there (Rachel is Nate's sister) and learns English and how to live in the new culture which was so foreign to her.

It was some time later that the five men came to make friends with the tribe. They intended to teach them that there was another way to live besides constant murder and death. Several tribe members came to meet the men and wanted to see their sister Dayume (played by Christina Souza). The language barrier made the situation frustrating. When one of the natives lied out of fear when he returned to the tribe, this led to the murder of the men.

Mincaya (full name Mincayani- played by Louie Leonardo) was the man who murdered Nate Saint. After befriending Mincaya, Steve (both Nate and Steve are played by Chad Allen whom you might remember from Dr. Quinn, and Our House TV series) has to deal with the fury and confusion of suddenly finding out that his friend is the one that brought him the most pain.

I have written a more extensive review at Epinions(dot)com of this movie with in depth information about the movie, background and cast if you are interested in reading it.

Suffice it to say that after many bad movies telling stories of similar nature, I was expecting this movie to be substandard.  I was shocked at how moving and intense it really is.

The critic reviews were completely unfounded and everyone we talked to outside the theater after the viewing said the same thing- and they were from VERY diverse backgrounds.  Different religions, different perspectives, different political persuasions.....I was intrigued by the way that this movie affected everyone we talked to that went.

I can not recommend this film highly enough- and the fact that this little tribe of people gave up their time and privacy because they were concerned about the US becoming what they used to be due to violence says volumes.

This movie is not like any other movie I have ever seen.  I would highly recommend viewing the documentary (Beyond the Gates of Splendor) before you see the movie as it enhances the movie even more.  If you can not see it, however, the movie stands very well on its own.

We were able to rent the documentary at a local Movie Gallery.