Let me start by saying that Rocky is my favorite movie series of all time.  I won't give a short description of each movie since many reviewers have already done so.
My ratings of each movie:
ROCKY 1: 5/5; This is definitely the best movie in the series.
ROCKY 2: 4.5/5; Just about as good as the first one.
ROCKY 3: 4/5; This movie was OK.  A little too 80's, but still a good movie.
ROCKY 4: 4.5/5; Not as good as the first one, but better than number 3.  The only thing I didn't like about this movie is that it's a little short.  1 &amp; 2 are 2 hours long, while this one is about 90 minutes, so it's over too soon.
ROCKY 5: 3/5;  Not a bad movie, but my least favorite of the series.  I kind of felt that this sequel was a bit unnecessary.  It doesn't really help the series in any way, but I don't think it hurts it either.
Now that I've given my opinion of the movies, let me give my opinion of the DVD's:
ROCKY 1: Great picture quality, and great bonus features.  I love watching the interview with stallone about the movie and it's nice watching Stallone and Carl Weathers practicing the fighting sequence.  I also enjoy the audio commentary.
ROCKY 2: OK picture.  It doesn't seem like they tried at all to clean up this movie.  Also, there are just a few scenes where the audio sounds strange (when Rocky proposes) and the sound is fine on the VHS.  Also, NO SPECIAL FEATURES!  There have to have been scenes that were cut out, interviews, photos, SOMETHING!
ROCKY 3: Great picture and sound quality.  But just like number 2, NO SPECIAL FEATURES!
ROCKY 4: Good sound, again it doesn't seem like they even attempted to clean up the picture and, again, NO SPECIAL FEATURES!
ROCKY 5: Great picture, great sound.  Only one complaint.  Can you guess what it is?  NO SPECIAL FEATURES!
All in all, I love this series and I am so glad that it is on DVD; I just think they could have put more effort into releasing it.  I mean, this is an MGM series.  I always thought that Paramount and Warner Brothers were the only companies that put hardly any effort into their DVDs.