Wuthering Heights was one of my favorite novels from my youth.  I never particularly appreciated the Olivier film because Olivier himself did not in the least fit the physical conception of Heathcliff my mind had created when I read the novel.  Tom Hardy, however, mostly certain DOES play the perfect incarnation of Heathcliff:  His performance is passionate and exceptional, and he has a deep, powerful, resonant voice that reminds me of what I first noticed about the late Heath Ledger.  Hardy portrays Heathcliff as I think Bronte might have envisioned him:  Darkly handsome, powerful, dangerous, an undercurrent of evil obsessed with vengeance,  a commanding and compelling presence in every single scene, and strongly sensual beneath it all.  Unfortunately, I did not not feel Charlotte Riley  was the right actress for Cathy because she simply did not match Hardy's intensity and presence.  Riley is lovely and a good actress, but somehow she did not come across believably as the type of woman to inspire such undying passion in Heathcliff.  She seemed too conventional and reserved to appeal to him, and the various scenes portraying Cathy and Heathcliff running about the hills together was just too tame and was unconvincing as any sort of proof of her wilder side.  Cathy needed to be played by someone with an undeniably wild and uncontrollable nature such as we see in actresses like Angelina Jolie, for example.  Cathy needed to be shown as unconventional and wild, and that simply did not come across as Riley and this production portrayed her.  Heathcliff needed a Cathy who was a match for himself in feminine form, a woman who was a force of nature, so to speak.  Riley was just too tame.  The actress who portrayed Cathy's daughter Catherine actually seemed a bit stronger character compared to Cathy, but even she was a too mild in my opinion.  Other characters in this film were well done, however.

It had been a very long time since I read Wuthering Heights, and I also noted that in this production the way the story line jumped about with the timeline was a bit confusing, and it took awhile before I remembered the details original story and how all the characters related to each other.  If I'd never read the book I would have been quite confused about the relationships.  For example, Heathcliff's son Linton appears early on, but I'd forgotten exactly who he was and who his mother was and what the circumstances of his life were.  All in all, I think Masterpiece Theater would have done better to make this longer by another 2-hour episode, just to flesh out all the missing details that were glossed over a bit too  much for continuity.

Despite the flaws, this production was absolutely gorgeous and the accompanying music was perfect to set the mood, and it was very compelling to watch.  Good enough that I've ordered the film to re-watch it, mainly because of Hardy's wonderful performance.  He really was the perfect Heathcliff, the one I've imagined all my life.

For those who haven't read the novel, this really is one of the most intense love stories ever written.  The author Emily Bronte wrote only this one novel, which was published in 1847, only about a year before her death at age 30.  The nature of the story supposedly created quite a flap in British society at the time it was first published.