Luc Besson's The Fifth Element is one of those films that so dazzles the eye that it prevents the rest of your brain from discovering how essentially convoluted it is.  But for a big, special-effects film it delivers what it promises even if your eyes roll around from time to time.

Bruce Willis is Corbin Dallas, former Mr. Military Uber-Man now New York cab driver who, of course, finds himself saving the world.  Willis doesn't plumb any new territories with his portrayal (not quite as funny as John McClain, not as serious as Harry Stamper) but does a solid job reacting to the myriad of green screens that must have been on set.  Willis is paired with Milla Jovovich as LeeLoo, the alien-bred supreme being who must destroy the ultimate evil...but we'll get to that in a sec.  Jovovich turns in her best performance to date, somehow naturally delivering the gobbledygook language Besson created just for this film while seeing the world as a child and using some martial arts to kick ass all at the same time.

But this is a film about style and it doesn't dissapoint.  New York of the year 2300 is a dazzling cityscape miles high and bustling with the flying cars we all hope we see one day.  Style invades every aspect of the film, from using supermodels as aliens to Jean-Paul Gaultier designing police uniforms.  Besson and crew did a marvelous job of creating a feast for the eyes and that alone makes the film a must-see.  From aliens and divas and spaceships to floating boat-hotels and a remote-controlled cockroach, the movie shines with its inginuity.

With all the style stuffing every corner, you may wonder about plot and perhaps its best that you don't.  Like the Heavy Metal magazines that inspired it, art is tatamount to story...but I'll give it a go:  Every 5,000 years Ultimate Evil returns to attempt to destroy all life in the universe.  It looks like a big, firely meatball in space.  To combat this, some alien race built a temple (now ancient Egypt, making the third or fourth sci-fi use of ancient Egypt) to hold the only weapon to defeat it: the Fifth Element.  What is the ultimate evil?  Where does it come from?  Why does it need Gary Oldman to do its bidding?  These are questions best left unconsidered for too long, else you reach some wierd conclusions (if the Evil comes back every 5,000 years, and the universe is 11.5 billion years old...does that mean its been defeated 230,000 times?). Again, best not to dwell.

Chris Tucker comes along for the ride as radio talk-show host Ruby Rod and delivers the most memorable performance in the film despite wearing skin-tight bathrobes.  Ian Holm provides some stability as the monk Cornelius and the aforementioned Gary Oldman is the villanous Zorg.  Oldman, eerily effective using his southern-american dialect, isn't on the screen enough for my taste but again proves that no one does the bad guy so well.  Those fashionistas among you who remember who the best supermodels were in 1997 will also no doubt see your favorites popping up all over the place.  Apparently, there are no women in the year 2300 who wear more than a size 2.

The Ultimate-Edition DVD replaces the no-thrills disk first issued and the later Superbit release.  In fact, the movie on disk 1 is the superbit edition.  The video is flawless with no edging or halos as would be expected. The digital effects hold up remarkably well, I'd put them alongside anything produced today which is saying a lot for a film eight years old.  I don't have a widescreen TV, but this makes me wish I did.  I do have a surround-sound system and this movie nearly shook the speakers off the shelf. The 5.1 DTS is awesomely aggressive in its use of all speakers and I swear my subwoofer began rocking around like an old washing machine during some of the action scenes.  Disk 1 also has a fact track that runs under the picture with some pretty cool factoids.  No commentaries (in fact, no Besson at all anywhere...I still don't know what he looks like), but that leaves more bitspace for audio and video.

Disk 2 is a bit of a letdown with featurettes on style, digital work, the cast and aliens.  But each featurette is quite short (none more than 15 minutes) and all have the same voice-over by Mr. Professional Voice Annoucner Guy who got on my nerves by the third one.  The Star Element features interviews with Willis, Jovovich and Tucker (again not in depth) and a look at the extras who populated the various alien costumes.  But given the amount of work that went into this film, you'd think that there would be more conceptular art to paruse or behind-the-scenes stuff, but, alas, there is not.  This is probably due to the fact that Besson is nowhere to be found and considering that everything we see popped out of his head, that is dissapointing.

Nevertheless, given the terrific video and audio presentation and just enough extras to let you in on some of the secrets of making the movie, this is a great DVD to pick up.