I usually like chick flicks. And characters like Elle Woods from Legally Blonde or Cher from Clueless are truly likeable 'airheads' with good hearts. This movie, though, is really annoying and borders on being pathetic. You can see the attempts at copying other movies like Bridget Jones, Legally Blonde and a few others, albeit it landing on its bottom - hard.
The attempts at showing the leading character's fun side to draw laughs are really annoying. For example, when she was dancing with Hugh Dancy's character and doing those ridiculous moves with her fan.... It was more embarrassing than hilarious!! It was really painful. And the unnecessary shrill shrieks from other females are more 'what is wrong with them' than happily infectious, as supposedly intended.
Hugh Dancy has zero screen presence and looks almost comical in a tuxedo. He has no ooomph, and a very, very poor version of Hugh Grant - who, BTW, has not much of a body, but looks great in expensive clothes! Dancy's facial expressions show uncertainty as to what he is doing starring in this movie. And chemistry between him and Isla Fischer..? Zero.
Her cluelessness, is exasperating rather than endearing. And instead of rooting for her to see the light soon, you just want to laugh tauntingly when the debt-collector finally catches up with her live on TV. That was the highlight!
Really a pathetic attempt but a very real reflection of the women we see today. Rather than being just airheads like just a decade ago, these women have gotten worse - even becoming proud of their stupidity, which they wear as a badge.
The other characters are equally annoying. And most of them were supposed to be notable actors. Joan Cusack and John Goodman were so irritating, that girl playing Isla's best friend? You just want to slap her - hard! What's wrong with this hysterical witch? And she's getting married? Can you imagine the kind of kids she'll raise? Well, yeah. They already exist today, right? John Lithgow hardly register. Only Kristin Scott Thomas plays a passable role.
Don't waste your time - seriously. It doesn't take your mind off these hard times. Merely remind you just how far we have crumbled and deteriorated as a society, and not likely to recover anytime soon.