A sweet, simple love story with a time travel twist.
Meg Ryan does a serviceable job in this flick, though not nearly as good as some of her other past films like You've Got Mail, Sleepless in Seattle, or I.Q.,  but I'd guess that was more due to the script and direction.
Hugh Jackman was awesome, playing a nobleman from early America. It's a great contrast to the Wolverine role he played in X-men.  While in X-men, he was a somewhat coarse and wild, yet principled "wildman, " here he plays a totally genteel, polished gentleman whose straightforward honesty and candor make the girls who meet him just wriggle with romantic ecstasy, while inspiring nobler sentiments in the men.
There's only one short scene where time travel is really batted around. The rest of the film is a fun, not overdone exploration of how a gentleman from the past would respond to our contemporary world. And, without ruining the ending, it makes us nostalgic for the simple courtesies and chivalries of the past. At one point though, when feeling this, I also realized that it left out the harsh realities-- that back in time, there were a good proportion of cretinously sexist, racist, ignorant, wealthy pigs. Jackman is playing an idealized male romantic hero, as one might find in a Harlequin romance. 
I also really enjoyed the role played by Liev Schreiber, the besieged (ala One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" by psychiatry discoverer of the time warp which made this story possible. 
There are a number of magical moments in the story-- and it's magic which melts the heart and pulls those heartstrings for which we pay the eight bucks to see the movie on the big screen. 
This is light fare, and sometimes, the light-fare genre just hits the spot. Great music helps on this soundtrack.
One thing though. His uniform, as shown in the trailer and throughout the film, appears to be mroe fitting to the end of the 1700s, not the 1800s. But they repeatedly say he has traveled from the late 1800s. Then, at one point, they say he's 200 years old, which would match his outfit. It looks like the writers got confused on the script. Oh well. It really doesn't hurt the story an iota.