"The Addams Family" Series 1 is a treat. Here's my "Top 5".

Firstly, this black and white series doesn't date. Monochrome suits the mock macabre world of the Addams. And they are "ooky and kooky" enough to be outside of everyone's fashion universe. Where other shows from 1964 seem better in memory than in rerun, the Addams are better. My prediction? The recently produced Addams Family movies will be well and truly out-of-date before the sixties TV series.

Secondly the Addams Family was ahead of it's time. Today many series pay lip service to tolerance and diversity. As John Astin mentions in the extras to this disk set, the Addams Family had poked gentle fun at the dividing line between conventional and unconventional. The Addams' have a foot in both camps. Outwardly unconventional they believe themselves to be middle of the road normals. Today we're used to people being "non-confromists just like everyone else", our self-styled non-confromists wouldn't last too long around Uncle Fester!

Gomez's on screen passion for his wife was, as the extras note, unique in it's time. Another area where the Addams were ahead of the trend. One area they aren't is in simple good manners. Wednesday always (always!) says "thank you Thing". How many modern series exhibit children with good manners? Maybe modern series and audiences could learn something here.

Thirdly, the video and audio reproduction in this series is very good. With the DVDs you realise just how central Vic Mizzi's excellent music is to the series. Again harpsichord doesn't date. If it's not 'in' it can't go 'out'.

Fourth, the extras here are valuable, informative and entertaining. They are not an after thought. It's great to see the surviving cast and how Pugsley and Wednesday have grown up. The extras background the work of Charles Addams, the cartoonist creator of "The Addams Family", detail the origin and casting of the series, and showcase the music. Hit it Lurch!

Last but not least, the Addams Family is simply fun. And don't we all need a laugh?