Only a few movies really horrified me as a child: Dawn Of The Dead, The Shining, Phantasm, and Carrie. I despise The Shining because I read the book in junior high and saw that Kubrick, although brilliant, had butchered a book that was really too involved to put on celluloid. Carrie remains the only King novel-to-film that stands alone in itself as a horror classic, although the book is just as disturbing.

Carrie scared me as a five year old (I STILL remember the trailer!), then petrified me when my mom bought the novel, because the cover at the time was Sissy Spacek covered in blood...mom had to trash the book...sorry, Ma! Then I watched the movie with my sister when I was about eight....and well, I have probably seen it a HUNDRED times after that!!!! Never get tired of it! (Along with Phantasm and D.O.T.D.)

I'm not going to rehash the story....I just would like the younger horror fans to delve into the world of truly masterfully-crafted horror cinema made by the likes of DePalma, Romero, Cronenberg....I know I forgot someone, but DePalma outdid himself with this. The cinematography is fantastic, the morbidity, the expressions of horror; not blood n guts, but the horror of human beings' cruelty to one another...SHINES! Best adaptation of King's interpretation of small-town evil come to claim its own in an unassuming form.

Carrie is REQUIRED VIEWING for anyone who claims to be a horror fan...and I consider myself an old hand. If you haven't seen it, or The (original) Omen, you gotta zip the lip: ya know diddly.

The main thing about this movie that stays with me is that as I got older, I really believed the actors in their roles: they were all exemplary. Sissy Spacek was so tragic as the pathetic Carrie White, her mother and tormentors, played beautifully by Piper Laurie, John Travolta, to name the more familiar faces, were so REAL. The movie now isn't horror to me, but sad. The all-powerful ENDING, which everyone mentions here, still spooks me to this day...still tough to watch.

Now if THAT doesn't make a classic, you tell me!