The above quote may seem childish in writing but seeing it performed by Rainn Wilson as Dwight K. Schrute is simply comedic gold.  While the first season of "The Office" had some very good moments, the second season is when it became the best show on TV.  From "The Dundees", where boss and politically incorrect boob Michael Scott butchers songs trying to be a real award show (while failing miserbly at it) to "Casino Night" where, finding out he has two dates for the night, proclaims he's "going to drop a deuce on everyone", "The Office is laugh out loud funny, something you don't get to see much of in todays generic sitcom situations (Two and a Half Men).

The writing and cast are top notch.  Steve Carrell (who should win an Emmy as Michael Scott) is the ringleader of the shenanigans.  John Krasinski, Jenna Fischer and of course Rainn Wilson are the biggest elements to an ensemble cast that is unmatched on TV today.  Highlights of the show include:

"Halloween", with Michael needing to fire someone by the end of the day and the problems he has firing anyone.

"Christmas Party" where the gift exchange goes horribly wrong because of Michael's stupidity (Buying a $300 Ipod for a $25 maximum exchange), then wondering if 15 bottles of vodka is enough to get 20 people drunk.  Classic.

"Booze Cruise", another disaster for Michael.  Trying to give a motavational speech while doing "the worm" is something to behold.

Along with Michael's falures and embarrassments as well as the office staffs professional and personal lives, we get to see the budding relationship between Pam (Fischer) and Jim (Krasinski), who flirt while knowing there is no way they can be together, since she is engaged to Roy who works in the warehouse.  But as we see by the last show, "Casino Night", things may take a different turn for these two.

In the end, "The Office" has the one thing that is missing in many of todays comedies:  a heart.  When Michael, who's single and has no kids, shows a video of himself as a youngster on a kids show, young Michael proclaims that his wish is to "have a wife, 100 kids and 100 friends, so no one can say no to being my friend". It's hilarious and heartbreaking at the same time.