Detour is a great old noir film that heads off in the right direction before getting sidetracked.  But, despite the lost meandering, there are still a few scenes in the film worth seeing, and an overall theme that I found haunting and thought-provoking.

The film is pure noir.  Like my favorite film from the genre, Double Indemnity (review), it starts at the end, with a bedraggled protagonist who is about to flash back on how everything went horribly wrong.  It is the conceit that allows the classic noir voice-over to guide ensuing events.  As a fan of this genre, I never tire of the routine.  It isn't imitation so much as homage.  This is what makes the genre, and I would be ticked if certain expected elements weren't present.

The story of Detour is pretty simple.  Two lovers who both work the small-circuit music biz are separated when the woman decides to try her hand out in Hollywood.  Some time passes and the man, Al Roberts (Tom Neal), decides to journey west to join her.  Low on funds, he resolves to hitching clear across the country.  But of course, from the title of the film, we know that his trip is going to take a route more scenic than he would like.

The problems begin when Roberts gets into the convertible of a wealthy dude heading for California.  While Roberts is taking a turn at the wheel as the owner of the car gets some sleep, it begins to rain.  Stopping to put the top up, Roberts is unable to wake the owner.  When he opens the door, the man spills out and bangs his head on a rock.  This doesn't seem to help in rousing the poor fellow.  Roberts can find no sign of life and realizes that this will look like a robbery, no matter what he tells authorities.  So he decides he should at least use the car to get to Hollywood.  But he'll need money for gas, and he will be guilty whether he robs the man or not, so he takes his wallet.  But the cops would never believe that a man dressed like himself would own such a car, and they are similar builds, so he switches outfits as well.

The process of gradually rationalizing one's way from a small mistake to the worst sort of crime is entirely believable.  The actions of an innocent man who knows he will be found guilty anyway are perfectly recreated.  This was the spooky theme of the film, and nothing scurries me to the edge of my seat quicker than the plight of an innocent man accused.  The film was starting off perfectly for me as things were going bad for Roberts.  And things are about to get worse.

After a close call with motorcycle cop right there at the scene, Roberts feels like he is in the clear and will soon be with his honey in Hollywood, able to forget this unfortunate turn of luck.  But when he sees a female hitchhiker he is unable to resist giving her a lift out of empathy.  The problem is that she has already been given a ride by the man that owns this very car, and she knows that Roberts isn't him!

The rest of the film is basically a hostage situation, with the female hitchhiker, Vera (Ann Savage) threatening to turn Roberts in unless he gives her the dead man's money and whatever they can get for selling the car.  Their back and forth banter has some excellent moments, with the pace and lethality of machine-gun fire which is typical of the genre.  But I feel like the movie missed a better story by taking the second detour.  The stolen identity tale would have been more entertaining, and there were hints in the second half that it was at least considered.  But perhaps due to budget concerns, the second act takes place almost entirely in a hotel room, and does not live up to the expectations created earlier.  The only saving grace is the great death scene at the end, which is just the sort of tragic and unforeseen conclusion I expect of good noir.

Overall the film played out like a realistic road trip.  It started with thrills, anticipation, and excitement and then it became hard to stay awake as we got to the second half of the drive.  At the end there was enough of a spectacle to make the journey worthwhile, but only barely.  This is a brief adventure that you recommend to people you know are into this sort of thing while knowing that everyone else will be satisfied with a postcard.  If you like noir, please check the film out.  If you don't, I hope you enjoyed the review and I suggest you give Double Indemnity a go.  Maybe you will become a fan and journey back to this one for more.