This is a "popcorn" movie- one of those movies you just see and enjoy.  In other words, don't think too much about the plot or the accuracy of what you are seeing.
  The story of the movie is based on an old saga- or legend to be rest accurate.  There was a real Ragnar.  He lived around 850 A.D.  He was said to have been captured and executed by an English king- supposedly a king of Northumbria by the name of Aiella- just like in the movie.  Ragnar's sons came to England to get revenge- just like in the movie.  Unlike the movie, the sons were Ivar the Boneless (rather than Einar), Halfdan, and Ubbe.  They were real- they were part of the Great Army that took over half of England and which was finally stopped by Alfred the Great.
  The ships in the movie are beautiful.  (We have a "real" one in Geneva, IL- a replica of one of the ships that is now in the Viking Ship Museum in Oslo.  The replica was actually part of the Norwegian exhibit at the Chicago World's Fair in 1893.)  Unfortunately, there are only three ships in the movie.  Too bad the movie wasn't made today.  Computer graphics could have turned three ships into 300! (-which is probably closer to what the real Einar (Ivar) had.)
  The castle is out of place- stone castles didn't come to England until the Normans in 1066.  (The Normans were actually "transplanted" Vikings= Normandy is really the land of the Nor(se)men.)  The only "castles" in England before the Normans were made of earth and wood.  The assault on the castle is spectacular, though, and the Vikngs are shown as an inventive people- which is consistent with history.
  Michael Douglas is actually in this movie!  He's one of the children who flee to the castle when the Vikings land.
  All those nice Viking warriors were real Norwegians who trained for months to handle the longships- part of the movie was actually filmed in Norway.  A good part of the way into filming, the Vikings demanded a raise.  Kirk asked his people if they had enough footage to complete the movie.  They did- so Kirk packed up his company, and went back to England, and left behind some very surprised Norwegians!
  After the movie came out, Kirk had all of those cool swords and shields and other props left over, so he decided to produce a TV series= "Tales of the Vikings".  It was on the air, I think, in 1959 or 1960= lasted one year.  Now that's something I'd like to see on DVD!
  Obviously, I'm a big Viking history buff.  As I said, the movie isn't really historically accurate, but it's still one of my favorite movies.