I like Jet Li--not his biggest fan, but I do like the guy and admire his martial arts abilities.  As an actor, he has an appealing presence, but lacks the easy charisma of Chow Yun Fat or Jackie Chan. 
Having heard so much raving about "Romeo Must Die" I went into the film with good expectations.  While not a bad film per se, this movie fails to live up to its promise.
Li is appealing as the oldest son of Chinese gangster who relocated from Hong Kong to escape a prison sentence.  Li's Han instead went to prison so that his father could take Han's beloved younger brother Po to America.  The Chinese gang headed by Han's father is in an apparent war with the local African American gang.  One of the first casualties of his war is brother Po.  His death causes Han to escape from his Hong Kong prison and come to America to find out who killed his brother.  
Once stateside, by unlikely coincidence, he hooks up with the daughter of the African American gang leader, played by Aaliyah and together they try to search out the answer to the central mystery of what is really going on--since the gang war seems a smoke screen for something else entirely. 
Li is appealing as Han, especially in his scenes with Aaliyah, although any romantic attachment that would justify the "Romeo & Juliet" inspired title and press hype is sadly missing.  The late Aaliyah is surprisingly good in her debut movie role--her loss in the tragic plane crash haunts the viewer as they watch this film.
The supporting cast is good and the acting solid.  One stand out performance is by Jon Kit Lee as the doomed younger brother of Han.  He has a precious few minutes of screen time, but what he has he uses to sparkle and dazzle.  I was let down by his character's early demise.  He has a budding charisma that should take him far.
The rest of the characters are strangely uninvolving however, and Han's quest seems to lack the immediacy it should have.
Flashbacks show that Han was more a father to Po than their father ever was, and that one of the reasons Han went to prison in his father's place was to protect his beloved younger brother and afford him a better life.  The pursuit of his killer falls a bit flat therefore, although there are some interesting scenes along the way.  The best is probably where Li's Han gets suckered into a football skirmish with members of the African American gang and gets the stuffing knocked out of him, until he figures out how to turn the tables.  The game is particularly brutal at first because Li is so small in stature next to the Gang members, who pretty much all could be linebackers for a pro football team.  There are some fairly good fight scenes with Li and Russell Wong and others.
But the plot, even the final betrayal falls surprisingly flat.
There are also puzzling aspects to the film.  Han's family is said to have come from Hong Kong--no mention of mainland China origins--yet when Chinese is spoken in this film, it is Mandarin, not the Cantonese that is the predominant language of Hong Kong and southern China. Han returns to his brother's apartment at one point in the film, to find it trashed, but seemingly empty. He goes to the garage to find Po's car and finds an important piece of evidence.  He comes back to the apartment to find Aaliyah's character waiting for him in the trashed living room.  Who did the trashing? Presumeably rival gang members looking for evidence--but the juxtaposition of scenes here muddies the water since we are given no indication that is the case.  Since her brother has also just been murdered, it could have been, and possibly was, the gang leader's daughter venting her grief.
A minor point, but one that intrudes on the film's narrative.  
Overall, a predictable, uneven action flick that could have been better had there been more committment to the romantic angle or the "Montague vs Capulet" idea of warfare between two families.