It is a sinister situation when one plays cards with fate.  But that is just what happens in Ingmar Bergman's 1957 classic, The Seventh Seal.  In this film, the main character, a knight just back from the crusades, comes face to face with death, literally.  He challenges Death to a game of chess.  The time in between matches is filled with a plethora of characters that the knight and his man encounter on their journey home, and who end up traveling with them.  The film is the journey of many characters to their intended, or unintended, destinations.

  Bergman's film effortlessly brings the audience into the film.  The very beginning of the film sets up the aura of the entire film in a single shot.  Bergman gives the audience a high angle far shot of a turf tormented shore.  Because of the extremely high angle, this shot makes the viewer feel as if God is in heaven watching the chess game of life being played out below Him.  Hitchcock uses this same technique in The Birds.  Another shot that brings the viewer into the film is one when Death is first introduced.  Death stands with his long, black robe draped around his body.  The shot is filmed from the point of view of the knight and we watch as Death lifts up his right arm and walks toward the camera.  The long robe drapes over his arm and as he nears the camera the black material engulfs the shot until it completely overtakes the image.  The shot quickly transitions to a shot behind Death as he walks toward the knight, but for a brief moment, Bergman expresses a literal sense of being overcome by death.  The long, black sleeve of his robe becomes a shroud placed over the eyes of the audience.  Bergman brings the audience to the point of life which we, as well as the knight, are not yet ready to face.

  The acting in this movie has a genuine subtlety about it.  The knight's acting is so underplayed that he never expresses much emotion at all.  In the beginning of the film, when the knight and his man are riding their horses home, the servant is singing a comic song that the knight finds annoying.  Whether or not the character is annoyed or just playing at it, the actor's expressions remain the same.  He is lifeless even though he has gained a few more days to actually live.  Written all over his face, he is a man who is already dead in spirit and in soul.  That expressionless and unfeeling sense is something words alone are incapable of expressing, and the actor achieves this with out using any.

  Writing about the acting would be incomplete without saying something about Death.  Halfway through the film, Death asks the knight if the family he has met is coming into the woods with him and his other companions.  A slight and sinister smile plays on his face.  The smile lingers when he is questioned as to why he wants to know.  He says he has no reason, but the faint smile stays and he must look away from the knight.  Just as a human who has a wicked secret to keep, Death places his hand in front of  his mouth to conceal the smile that would betray him.  The subtlety of his actions are amazing, especially in light of  what the actor is trying to convey.  Death has a secret.  We, and the knight, figure out what that secret is by seeing simply the slightest smile on his lips.

  This movie demonstrates the power of simplicity.  Lighting plays, perhaps, the biggest role in this film.  Black bars contrasting with a stark white face, or the white face in a black confessional, tricked into confessing his tricks to Death himself.  And Death, with his ghostly white features and the long, skimming, black robe.  Death is such a gothic and wonderful character that I wish he was in it more.  I would happily forego watching the buffoon clown dance on a table like a frightened bear to sit and play chess with Death.