I've seen "Picnic" more times that I could count, most recently on the excellent DVD edition.  It was released in 1955 and powerfully evokes old-fashioned small town America, but the essence of it transcends time and  place.  The dilemmas and stages of life portrayed can only be fully  appreciated by someone who's gone through some of them.  It was always one  of my mother's favorite movies, but you need to grow up to a certain extent  before fully appreciating it.  It's one of those films that gets better  with repeated viewings, and changes even as you yourself change.
A scene  that immediately comes to mind is one where Rosalind Russell, as a  desperately lonely middle-aged woman living in denial, is unblinkingly  staring at a blazing red sunset with her gentleman friend, Howard.  In a  tight, intense tone of voice she suggests that the day doesn't want to end,  that it's going to "put up a big scrap, try to set the world on fire," to  keep the night from creeping in.  Yow!  Besides being an example of great  acting, it's a scene that just can't be fully appreciated until you've  reached a certain age, seen some time slip by, and pondered mortality.  Russell makes the most of it, and it always brings a lump to my throat.  Howard, in his clueless way, agrees that "a sunset is a beautiful thing,  all right."  I suspect that people who watch this film, shrug, and say "so  what?  Kim Novak is fat and dull, and Holden is too old" are a lot like the  character Howard, which may be to their advantage after all.
Regarding  Kim Novak, I could certainly picture a more nuanced performance in that  role, but she is better than OK, and not fat by 1950's standards!  As for  William Holden being too old to play Hal, I can forgive much for the sake  of charisma like his.  He certainly seems older than Cliff Robertson, who  plays his former college fraternity brother (Holden was 37 at the time).  The age issue is addressed in another scene with Rosalind Russell (now I  think of it, hers may be the best performance in the film), where her  insecurity and anger are suddenly let loose in a drunken rage as she lashes  out at Hal.  She shouts: "you're no jive kid, just afraid to act your age,"  and her tirade gets meaner with each second.  This is the turning point of  the whole story, and contains some more great acting.  She spits the words  out like venom at Hal, whose agony on hearing things he is afraid to think  about, let along say out loud, is clearly visible on Holden's face.  "Picnic" is full of vivid scenes like this, as well as more subtle and  lighthearted character studies, and it is not a soap opera by any  means.
Incidentally, this film contains a technical milestone at the very  end.  The last shot is reputedly the very first helicopter shot in a motion  picture, done using a borrowed US Navy chopper.  In this landmark shot, the  maximum effect is achieved with no words.  We have already seen Hal catch a  passing freight train out of town, and we've seen Madge (Kim Novak) break  the bond with her mother and catch a bus out of town.  We know that their  paths are to cross again as the helicopter shot begins by tracking the bus  with Madge on it, and she is represented by a busy, hopeful-sounding  version of the "Picnic" melody heard earlier in the film.  As the camera  continues to rise, we catch sight of Hal's freight train nearer the  horizon, heading in the same direction, at which time a rough and virile  melody begins to sound right alongside Madge's "Picnic" theme.  What a  great way to end a great film.