One Two Three...  If one is truly a vintage film stu-dent or shall we say enthusiast; One Two Three is a must see video...Film say from the '50's &amp; 60's era that are a direct offspring of the '30's &amp; '40'sscrewball comedies are a particular delight for me; perhaps I was captured by the light dizzing nuance of wink- wink, nudge-nudge situations;as a mere slip of a girl in the late 60's. The plot of One Two Three is sublime. The wonderful hilarity of James Cagney playing the artful exec.of an overseas Coca-Cola firm.(can you stand it!)  Trying to deluge his hapless; but not spotless, cohorts with his slippery ethos. For the glory of an innocent soft-drink. But is it? Mr.Cagney charms fawns,and preys on the golden nebulous  crystallization of what's known as goodfaith; while stacking the deck of  surety for his own toppling reward.  Meanwhile, it might as well be the clobber of a steely snowball that thwarts his plan. Stopped cold; he realizes he's no match for the hatched plans of his boss's southern teen peach; whom is determined to bed,wed, and breed w/an American-hating com-munist dream-boat. The adorable comrade is played by Horst Buchholz; who gives an equally outrageous portrayal of single-minded ambition in the atmos-phere of chaos and cola... Arlene Francis is a cinch as James Cagney's  'had-it-up-to-here', delightfully droll wife; what style, what panache', what zingers she can throw! While the heart of the film spins, stirs, and tingles; like a long awaited tonic...it's the script that emulsifies all of the in- gredients of this concoction; not tomention the superbly genious direction of the one and only Mr. Billy Wilder....  After a tedious day; please  allow me to suggest a beverage  that's clarifying year 'round:  Pour: 1 part:'The Fortune Cookie'  Pour: 2 parts:'His Girl Friday'  Drizzle: 2 parts:'Some Like it Hot'  Squirt: 1 part:'White Heat'  Swizzle: 3 parts:'Yankee Doodle Dandy  Spray: 3 long streams: 'Bringing up  Baby'  * while blending gently w/a wink &amp;  * a nod...careful to stir and not  * to shake....  You'll have a Slurplelicious Dandy  of a time...Bottoms Up!  Anouk, ;-)