Jean Renoir's 1938 film "Grand Illusion" is a legendary film on so many levels. It's on a list of almost every film critic's favorite movies (it's listed in Roger Ebert's "The Great Movies"), it's #1 in The Criterion Collection (which isn't listed by greatness, for the record), and it's inspired movies/shows like The Great Escape and Prison Break. The latter, in it's second season of FOX, has a simalar escape plan. Ask most people who've seen this film and they call it a "Prison escape" movie. Technically it is; The main characters spend more than half the film trying to escape from a Prisoner-of-War camp, but it's a little deeper than that. The film opens on an interesting note; We meet Captain von Rauffenstein (Erich von Stroheim, 'Sunset Boulevard'), a German who has just succeeded in shooting down a French plane that holds Lieutenant Marechal (Jean Gabin) and Captain de Boeldieu (Pierre Fresnay). Even though he has just shot them down von Rauffenstein says "If they are officers, invite them for lunch." Sporting a broken arm Marechal and de Boeldieu join von Rauffenstein for lunch and then they are transported to a P.O.W. camp. Once they get there, Marechal and de Boeldieu are told by three wonderfully colorful characters about an escape plan. They are digging a tunnell that leads to a garden behind some buildings (in one scene, while the others dig, one guy sees that a prisoner has been shot. When he asks why, a soldier tells him the guy was found in the garden behind the buildings trying to escape.). Out of the three men that enlist Marechal and de Boeldieu to help them escape, only one becomes a main character. That's the rich Jew Rosenthal (Marcel Dalio), who recieves parcels of food from his family that he shares with his comrades. One of the other men steals every scene he's in and that's Cartier (Julien Carette), an actor who upstages almost everyone in the film. Anyway, when the tunnell is completed and the escape is set in motion; The men get news that all officers are being transported to a different facility. It's Marechal, Rosenthal, and de Boeldieu that end up together at the new camp that has von Rauffenstein in charge. Since they met him in the beginning, he sustained some spinal injuries ending his flying days and causing him to wear a neck/back brace. At the new facility, there's no tunnell to be dug and the walls are to high to scale...But that doesn't stop out protagonists from attempting to escape. Meanwhile, von Raffenstein befriends de Boeldieu which leads to some of the best moments in the film. One of the things that's most overlooked is that almost every scene in this film ends on a humorous note. Some verbal, most physical. I'm going to end my review of the MOVIE with the fact that this film has some incredible performances and is truly a classic film; You might have to watch it more than once for it to hit you, but this is an early masterpiece. Now, for the technical aspects of the DVD. Criterion usually does a pretty good job as far as picture and sound quality and here it's perfect. The film was made in 1938, but the picture and sound here is so clear that it could've been made a few years ago. I stumbled on this movie only because it was at the Library and I'm very glad I did. If you are a film buff or have any appreciation for film, you should see this movie.

GRADE: A-