I can't give this a one star simply because it does keep you watching in order to find out what happens. Many movies don't even have that. This is the first, and perhaps last, movie review I'll give. I enjoyed and agreed with Jack Baker's review so I'll use some of the names he gives to these characters, also.

Firstly, you will see no sharks, or any other fish in this film. These actors were prohibitively expensive. There is little if any character development outside a token little bit given to Hydrophobic Woman. The six people (not including the baby) who take the yacht off the coast of Mexico are so generic and uninteresting, with little to like about any of them, that I couldn't remember any of their names two days after viewing it. Think decadent yuppies and soccer moms leaving their suburban McMansions to inflict themselves on Mexico. They elicit all the sympatico you'd get watching a sinking ship with Bill Gates, Dick Cheney, and Nancy Pelosi on board. Who cares?

We have two thirds of the adult yacht population swimming beside the yacht when Jerky Guy grabs Hydrophobic Woman and jumps into the ocean with her, despite her protestations. This is the first of Jerky Guy's Charlie Brown-like touches of death.
Everything he touches turns to $%^t. No one has remembered to lower the ladder to get back aboard the deck, which rises 8 feet above their bobbing heads. No one has even bothered to lower the anchor. These people are in the water all day and some of them deep into the night. Hypothermia would occur very quickly unless that water was very near 98.6 degrees, but not in this movie, even though none of them are wearing wet suits.

Brainy ideas to get back aboard include: grabbing Jerky Guy's helium voiced trophy girlfriend's porpoise float and popping it trying to jump from it to the deck, trying to climb up the flag hanging from the stern, and taking off all their swimsuits and cutting them up to make rope, which they toss up to the deck. Instead of having a light weight person like one of the women try to scale it, Jerky Guy, manliest man among men, breaks both the rope and the flag with his refrigerator weight. Hydrophobic Woman's hubby gets the idea to dive under the boat to find a way in from that angle, failing to realize that trying to enter a boat from below the water line is like trying to exit a plane at 36,000 feet, or astronaut Maxwell Smart exiting his space capsule while forgetting his suit. To increase the melodrama, he decides to bash his head on the keel while trying to surface and get a breath, in the process fracturing his skull.

Meanwhile, Birthday Guy is so incensed at their predicament that he finally grabs the knife, swims to the side of the yacht, and tries to use the knife blade as a wedge in the ladder door crack to get a handhold to leverage himself up. Jerky Guy, upon seeing his precious yacht being manhandled, attacks Birthday Guy, and with his Charlie Brown "All I got is a rock" touch of death, Jerky Guy accidentally stabs Birthday Guy and then drops the knife into the deeps. Great clouds of blood spew from Birthday Guy, causing Jerky Guy's helium voiced trophy girlfriend to freak, fear sharks, and swim off and drown. Swimmer Girl finally lets go of Birthday/Stabbed Guy, releasing him to the deep along with their rope of swimsuits, to prevent them from trying that trick again.

Feeling immortal, and seeing no instant help, Swimmer Girl takes off swimming with perfect aplomb, leaving for the horizon in a vast sea of emptiness, no compass, no direction, no nothing. We never see her again. Possibly she makes Guam, or is even STILL swimming. Come back soon, we'll be waitin' for ya. Concussion Guy succumbs and is jettisoned. Jerky Guy, feeling sorry for himself, swims a quarter mile from the yacht, which never seems to drift anywhere, and attempts to locate the knife on the bottom of the ocean. We see him taking a mini vacation for several hours of very deep diving, searching for the knife. We have no idea how deep it is, but Jerky Guy uses his swimming mask to scan the deeps with his laser vision eyes. He takes magnanimously deep breaths and dives to the bottom, presumably U.S.S. Scorpion crush depths of two miles, but remember he has taken VERY deep breaths before diving.

Well, I won't continue, but you can deduce the idea with this movie. It's almost an unintentional comedy.