Most of the reviews I had read already here were actually based on viewing the trailer of Daredevil, and ended with the words "I'm sure the movie will be great."
Yeah, i saw that trailer too.  It ....
In a way, it's sad.  I spent the first hour thinking "it'll improve soon. Really.  Just as soon as the flashback stops/ Jennifer Garner turns up/ Bullseye appears."  How can i put this - it DIDN'T.
The first warning is the title sequence (yes, it's that bad), curiously reminiscent of.. Spiderman! Surprise. Not the last time I would be thinking that, either.
OK, nice first image; gothic, creepy.  That red leather isn't *quite* working, but it's early days, right...?
Wrong. Cue a, what, 20 minute flashback that exists purely to pile sentimental ... upon more sentimental ....  I'm not caring already.  The trailer sold me cool fights... um, don't expect a ... thing until the childhood trauma is well and truly driven home with a sledgehammer.  And the really sad thing?  It's nothing new. It's nothing we haven't seen a billion times before, better acted, and most definitely better scripted.
After the sentimental stuff, a couple of flashes of how good this could have been, given a little talent: the rendering of the 'radar' sense (whilst entirely illogical) is clever and cinematically works. It's new, it's *different*.  
Here, the plot departs from logic with screaming haste.  Yes, we understand little Matt has the radar-sense-thingy.  We do not understand, and are never offered any explanation for, why he is suddenly as agile as Spidey. Only, y'know, lacking any visible webslinging powers. Note to the cack-handed scriptwriter/ director: THIS MAKES NO SENSE. It so obviously exists purely to provide 'cool' visuals in the fight scenes that, quite frankly, aren't even done very well.
Moving swiftly on... I don't remember Ben Affleck ever being quite this dire. After an embarrassingly bad courtroom scene, the first action set piece is.. yup, pretty dire. The leather outfit gets worse by the moment. The requisite cool visuals are completely obscured half the time, which left me blinking in confusion as to who or what was supposedly getting their ... kicked.  I was still blinking in confusion a minute later, when I realised someone had been watching the subway scene from The Matrix a little too often... and then comes a little character development that makes me wonder why this guy is our hero, exactly.  
Still, that little spark of hope remains... the script perks up with the entrance of Jon Favreau.  The guy's funny, he gets a couple of decent lines, and hey, Elektra's about to turn up...
*shudder*  Jennifer Garner can act. Jennifer Garner can fight convincingly on screen. I know this, having sat through a season of Alias.  Guess what?  This script (and fight choreography) doesn't seem to agree.  I kept expecting her to break into one of Sydney's tortured speeches (anything being better than the drivel that passes for character development in this) but no.  The initial showdown between her and Matt in a kid's playground is so barkingly nonsensical that I was staring at the screen in disbelief.
And so on and so forth.  It's not even enjoyably bad; it just keeps setting up potentially cool scenarios, only to fail to see them through.  In some ways, it does perk up when Bullseye shows up.  A barely recognisable Colin Farrell gurns his way through as a manic little leprechaun who can't miss a shot to kill anyone with *anything* (old lady with peanut was a classic.  In a completely amoral way...).  Kingpin is, frankly, a bit underwhelming.  On the plus side, some fairly decent songs are used to drown out the bad acting most of the time.. the soundtrack looks half decent, considering...
The Valentine day opening means one trailer campaign focuses on the romantic pairing of Matt and Elektra, which is ironic given that this is one of the least convincing screen romances I've ever seen.  She likes him because.. um, well, cos he's blind? He likes her because, hey, she's hot. And she can kick .... For Absolutely No Apparent Reason. I'm guessing a whole chunk of backstory got ditched along the way, but what is unforgiveable is the waste of the only source of tension this plot has in their relationship.  Far as I can see, this should have been what the plot hinged upon. As it is, it's meaningless and shallow, aiming to set up a sequel far too lazily.
That's a prospect that really irritates me: a sequel to a film that managed to spend this much money on such an awful script and bad direction (the same guy being responsible for both should give you a clue).  I spent half the plot wondering if anyone had bothered to proofread the script before they went into production, as it unashamedly and amateurly ... half a dozen better movies without drawing breath (mainly Spiderman and the Matrix).  Sure, girls may go to drool over Ben Affleck, but the guy has never looked less attractive (get that flabby, unshaven chin beneath the halloween mask. *urgh*). Sure, guys may go for the action (hmm. Could do much, much better.) They'd all be better off staying home to watch Spiderman again, unfortunately.
Here's me wishing I had...