Forget the new reality show that is scuzzing up the good name of this movie.  Forget the lackluster live stage show that uses the plot as an outline for a show that is less effective.  Forget Fame L.A. which never tried to be anything but soap opera.  Even forget that original TV show that, while entertaining, didn't have that edge that this film has.
Those expecting a big glitzy musical will be disappointed in this, the ultimate in late 70's and very early 80's young filmmaking.  The honest story about performers that the film of A Chorus Line failed to be, possessing the urban edge that cheap films like Breakin' and Fast Forward, Fame has really stood the test of time in its message and mission.
Seeing the film again on DVD was another eye-opening experience.  Too often these films get dumped by the studios that made them in cheap packaging with no extras.  Warner Brothers went the extra mile with this release.  Some have said that they did it to capitalize on the new show's expected popularity -- that's bunk.  This is one of those classic films that many people tend to overlook.  It deserves to have this treatment and the honor is long overdue.  (I do have to say I HATE Warner Brothers still sticking with those terrible DVD cases...the covers can get scratched and dented so easily!)
Following the lives of several students at the NY High School of Performing Arts from Auditions through Graduation, Fame is inspirational to any performer/person even 23 years later.  What I liked about this film is the 'slice of life' aspect of it.  The film starts at auditions and ends at the final note of the graduation ceremony.  That's it.  The singing comes from a natural performance place...this is what these people do.  The Hot Lunch Jam in the cafeteria, the lonely songwriter performing at a bare window, and, of course, the title song forever immortalized in the streets of NYC.
The performances are first rate with many unknowns and soon to be knowns flying across the screen.  What a far cry from Dr. Romano is Paul McCrane's Monty!  
I LOVED the cast commentary.  Getting the chance to see these people all these years later and hearing their memories of their time working on this film and since is genius.  I wish more studios got these kind of video/audio commentaries together.  (Warner Brothers also did this with The Goonies...another treasure DVD).  Alan Parker's commentary is interesting but a little repetitive.  He'll say something and then repeat it several times...as if he's trying to keep talking until he can think of something else to say.  
Thank you Warner Brothers for doing this film justice.  23 years later it has been restored to pristine condition, you packed on the necessary features without going overboard, and you've unleashed the film at a time when we need to remember that there was a time performers didn't all look like Greek Gods/Goddesses but we still loved, listened to, and aspired to be like them for true reasons.  That's why you remember their names - Leroy, Doris, Coco, Bruno, Hilary, Monty, Ralph, Lisa, even Shirley Mulhullen...