This film, as many have pointed out, is low budget. So dont go into this movie expecting amazing effects, great writing, award-winning acting, and (as others have pointed out) much sense/logic. Just look at it as something along the lines of Sharktopus (if you havent seen that movie I reccomend it, its about a shark crossed with an octopus terrorizing a beach town, its fun/cheese to the max!). Unfortunately ZA: 2012 is NOT as good as Sharktopus.

I personally dont understand why a good zombie film is so difficult to make. The plot of this film is simple; Zombie apocalypse(oh noez)! Get from point A to point B (we have a plan!), fight hordes of zombies(pow! pow! bang! bang!, lose some friends to the undead(RIP ;_;), and reach the destination(yay!). Unfortunately, they cant even do this simple (and potentially enjoyable) plot.

The action I thought was pretty good considering the budget. Thats about the only positive thing Ill say about this film. I do admit they tried to be original with zombie animals and I respect it, but it was few and far between so it didnt really enhance the film for me. The major downfall comes to these 2 things though; characters and the pace. The characters were boring, I didnt really have a "favorite character", I dislike when that happens in a film. But That can be overlooked  because at least they get eaten right? Well maybe if you can stay awake. Yes people the pace of this film is about as fast as a snail moving through drying gorilla glue...while being salted. The movie will have a short action sequence (which were quite enjoyable for the most part) and then go on for about 15-25mins of NOTHING. I kid you not it all nothing. Just irrelevant fluff. So I give this film 3-stars for being among the better 'bad' zombie films out there, it has zombies, it has blood, it has action, its just not consistent and gets boring.

In conclusion: if youre looking for good modern zombie flicks dont start here. Try Zombie Diaries 1+2 (both EXCELLENT films), Dead Snow, the Dawn of the Dead remake (more of a spin off than a remake though). But if you need a new zombie movie and saw all the others I mentioned rent this one. Its at pretty much any place you can rent films.