The Stand, for anyone who hasnt seen it is a very long movie, but draws you in fast. Unlike most long movies, even slow parts explained alot and had a way to draw you in. I never seen this when it was on tv, but when I bought the dvd 'its 2 dvd's', I expected to watch part one the first day, part two the second etc... as dvd #1 has part 1 and 2, and dvd #2 has part 3 and 4 respectivly, but I found Myself just watching all 4 parts approx 6 hours all in one sitting I was so hooked :) ... and seen MANY times over since!

 Even the intro music 'Dont Fear the Reaper' by Blue &Ouml;yster Cult was a really nice unexpected touch =)

 The pick for actors and actresses could not have been better. You can find a part of yourself in each charecter, good or evil. This movie is very psychological with many things to make you just sit and wonder for hours, even days after you seen it... and still find yourself watching it again, and again, and again...

 I know some were upset by Stephen King using alot of Christian emphases in the movie, but personally I thought it was a nice touch and done with extream good taste, and... it was His book/movie to do as He wished. Anyone who dont like it, write your own book with your own theme :P

 The movie starts with a military grade super flu that leaks out with no cure, which, could possably happen in real life. However no one knows why but a few are immune while everyone else dies leaving a small population of the human race left. While everyone is in the stage of dieing anarchy is everywhere among the people to the government declairing marshall law.

 This is just the very beginning as it deepens with the deaths of all the sick with the super flu aka captian trips by its so called west coast name in the movie.

 Soon, the survivors start having visions/dreams of 2 differant entities, one being an old black woman 'Mother Abigale', who represents all good trying to draw the suvivors to her area to start a new colony from G~d speaking to Her in dreams, and the other, a hippie type biker who you are led to belive is satan 'Randal Flagg', but thru out the whole movie he is never directly referd to as satan or the 'devil' to try and gain his following of people to start a differant colony. Stephen King did a superb job on this as there is no doubt this hippie biker in the desert is satan or 'the devil' but never actually referd to as such...

 As stated, the movie is extreamly psychological and you can find even a small trace of yourself in each person and even situation in one form or another, which really makes one think hard about many things, such as the survivors, both the good going onward to 'Mother Abigail' or the bad pilgramiging to 'Randal Flagg', not just the colonies they build later, but even the journies of each party as they slowly meet on the road and what happens to each while on their journeys to either colony...

 Still... theres even more, much much more yet to come, but Ill stop here... B-)

 A MUST see for anyone who has not seen this movie as you can find a part of yourself in this as well as just good entertainment even.

 My oppinion, this 'was/is/ever will be' the finest book made into a movie from Stephen King ever. If I could I would definatly give more then 5 stars except amazon.com limits to only 5 :P

 I may have to buy another back up copy of The Stand as Ive watched My version so much I think I actually wearing out the disks =)

 Enjoy!