I just bought the DVD to watch on a new big television when i get around to choosing one.

I can remember when the film came out. It was even adverised in Readers Digest.

By the time I had bought my first Harley and began to turn on it was the early 70's and the 60's were regarded as a definitive and Golden Time.The film was shown in Dampier in 1972 in a landscape similar to Southern California,.Red  scrubby rocky hills brooding on Time. Stained rivers run through sand.Startling glaring sunshine.

So I could relate to the landscape really well, and the tolerant stoned behaviour and the bigotted persecution.

The intolerance is noticed because as Hippies you want to make connection and seek recognition and acceptance from all the community.

 You have something major to contribute, namely perception free of attachment.

Thus you are working on being truly free.

The structures in society are not fully based on an authentic rational psychology, they are based on inflationary projection of  influential people usually in a state of denial. The broader societal culture needs to allow individuals to experiment,to get things wrong, to apologise without wanting a pound of flesh. It needs to nurture and us and to maintain authentic nurturing behavioural examples that guide us.

It is that insight and the practice of sincere positive sorting out your mind and your actions that makes Free people a threat to

any one in Denial.

 Control freaks need to control  the culture of society around them in order to maintain their equilibrium.

This is one of the messages of the film. In a conservative confomist culture like the USA what are social democratic norms in countries like Australia or Europe were and are seen as a threat to that society's status quo. The National Denial Structure is about to be unravelled. The conceptual reality is about to be changed and they dont seem to have to tools to travel into new ways of perception.

Any way would like a cd player on my Triumph so I can listen to the great soundtrack from this film.

Technically it may have its faults but overall it got the spirit correct.Also the documentary is invaluable.

Peace and go for a long ride man.