"Nowadays, people want glamour and tears, the grand performance. I'm not very good at that. I never have been. I prefer to keep my feelings to myself."  -- Queen Elizabeth II

Retaining the dignified privacy that's typical of England's royal family versus showing feelings to an upset and saddened British public that craves monarchial comfort and emotion -- those are the difficult options facing Queen Elizabeth II after Princess Diana's sudden death in this spellbinding movie starring Helen Mirren.

Following Diana's death, it's a clash of old-world thinking from the queen and her entourage, up against the newly elected Tony Blair, a "modern" and forward-thinking politician who hopes to revolutionize England. In Blair's corner are the people of Great Britain, who loved Diana and now scorn the queen's reluctance to display remorse after the princess' untimely death. In a world filled with 24-hour news cycles and wear-your-heart-on-your-sleeve reality TV shows, the public desires an appearance from Queen Elizabeth II to put a stamp on memorializing the "people's princess."

But the queen has a mindset and a long history of her own, not all of it regal, and she isn't easily pigeonholed. A former mechanic in World War II and a lover of the outdoors and dogs, Queen Elizabeth II defies convenient stereotype. Though initially her airs reek of snobbishness, Elizabeth is actually a down-to-earth, razor-sharp gal who's filled with the same range of humanity that all of us possess and truly loves and believes in her country. Observing her interaction with people and during personal moments is fascinating and hearkens back to a bygone era that valued familial privacy, honor, restraint and proper decorum.

Nuance abounds from Blair as his relationship with the queen evolves and he begins to view her less as an archaic figurehead and more as a noble leader who in many ways can't help her mentality and circumstances. Blair, who starts his term as prime minister a bit in awe of the queen's presence, delicately begins to open up and make suggestions to assist with her predicament of holding on to private family grief versus showing her face to the people of England. Ultimately, though there are some critical words along the way, both the increasingly confident Blair and the staid, honorable queen show themselves to be compromising leaders who only want to do what's right for their country.

This glimpse into privileged worlds is made even better by stellar acting by everyone involved. Michael Sheen is practically a carbon copy of the real Tony Blair; Mirren won an Academy Award for her performance as Queen Elizabeth II; and everyone else, from the boorish James Crommwell (the Queen's husband) to the stately Roger Allam (the Queen's adviser) to the brusquely opinionated Helen McCrory (Blair's wife), were spectacular in their roles.