I hated the computer graphics in this and the Battlestar Gallactica (original series) aspect of having the same soldiers both flying aircraft and fighting on the ground.  That's a bit wanky.  Sometimes the acting and direction is what I'd call schmaltzy.  Mostly this series was not great, but it never felt compromised to me from the standpoint of giving into top-down pressures.  Though the visuals may be limited, the writers seemed able to get their stories across without corruption.  There are episodes, however, that do have greatness.  "Who Monitors the Birds", an episode where Tank is part of a 2-man SPECOPs insertion, can stand alone as a short film.  There are lots of little well-thought-out technical details like using LADAR for secure communications with scout ships.  Obviously there was more practical technical advising for this show than, say, any of the Star Treks.  You don't see much interchangeable, throwaway techno-babble here.  The score was also unique in that it was composed by a woman...very rare for TV/Film, even more so with science fiction/military subject matter.

I'd also like to commend this series for the emotional characteristics of the soldiers.  I've seen enough footage of the young, closely-knit US ground troops in Iraq, their heartbreak, and their tears with the death of friends.  The Marines' portrayal here is maybe not as gung-ho, jarheaded, and testosterone as the real life Corps, but you must keep in mind that this series is based on a total war, with both male and female enlisted (without MOS sex restrictions) of all economic backgrounds. The Navy is the primary "Space Force" service branch, with the Marines encompassing all the space-borne soldier/pilots.  It's hard to know what such a personnel makeup would be like.  The young, female sergeant is too frequently either angry or on the verge of tears, but that might just be the range of the actress.  If young women were leading squads/flights in a war this big, I suppose you can't rule anything out.  The Russian front in WWII, where women served alongside men, had its share of melodrama and sexual tension...so who really knows.  From a warfighting standpoint, as long as they can do the job, a little PMS isn't a deal breaker.  The fact that the show even allowed this to come through at times might be a good sign of their artistic honesty.  I'm pleased to see this entire series available for such a low price.