I rented this film the other night from blockbuster. I've been drawn to any documentaries which shed light on the Iraq situation out of a hunger for knowledge regarding whats really going on there. I was initially impressed by the film but couldn't shake a nagging suspicion that something might be fishy with this film. While I will not make any blanket statements regarding the true nature of this film I will present you with a few interesting details about the film that struck me as odd, so that you might come to your own informed conclusion. (some content taken from Wikipedia)

1. "...the film's public relations were handled by MS&L, "a P.R. firm employed by the Army" even though same firm also represents General Motors, Nestle, Philips, and Procter & Gamble and in 2003 won the Holmes Report "Best PR Agency of the Year" award. Producer Martin Kunert dismissed the accusations with, "Are makers of SUV's, chocolates, and toothpaste hiring documentary filmmakers to propagandize the U.S. population?"

What the general public doesn't usually realize is just how much influence America's corporations (like the ones that were listed above) control have on our government representatives in Washington, through lobbying and close ties to our representatives. But that is another story for another day. My point was that the fact that those companies were employed the P.R. firm that handled the Army's P.R. matters didn't surprise me at all. If anything in only served to further raise my suspicions.

2. A look at the critics...

  * The San Francisco Chronicle wrote, "'Voices of Iraq' is a must-see for anyone still coming to terms with the chaos in Iraq."[5]
  * The Los Angeles Times, "By turns heartbreaking, amusing and disturbing, the film features people from different regions, economic classes and religions, recounting stories that are sometimes bleak, sometimes encouraging, but always compelling"
  * Variety, "In a season of political documentaries that take one side or the other on the war in Iraq, a film has emerged whose purpose is not to address American politics but the Iraqi people."
  * Hollywood Reporter, "Perhaps the sharpest commentary on years of suffering, hope and the wages of war are the children in front of and behind the cameras."
  * The Wall Street Journal, "At a time when shrill political diatribes dominate the documentary scene, along comes an authentic work that dares to let the subject speak for itself - literally."
  * Dallas Morning News, "An extraordinary, up-to-the-minute tapestry that ranges all over this country of 25 million people and carries the force of revelation."
  * The Washington Times: "'Voices of Iraq' is neither partisan nor conservative in any meaningful sense of the word. However, as an attempt to get behind the filter of the main stream media - as a picture of reality unmediated by editorial commentary - it's a more potent negation of Michael Moore, Craig Unger, Noam Chomsky and Co."
  * The New York Times: "If this film cannot claim to represent the political "truth" about the war - what film could?"

But questions too:

  * Variety: "As a true or accurate portrait of the real Iraq, however, pic pales in comparison to various in-depth U.S. and European reports, and to Bahman Ghobadi's brilliant new drama on wartime Kurdish refugees, "Turtles Can Fly.""
  * The Village Voice: "any film that credits itself as "filmed and directed by the people of Iraq" deserves to be regarded with skepticism."
  * Detroit Free Press: "a revealing documentary that depicts the day-to-day hopes and grief of people. Mothers talk about sons gone missing. Interviews are interrupted by bomb explosions. Kids practice in a rock band after listening to black-market Metallica CDs. The movie is disturbing, sometimes funny, and also timely.... Maybe my skepticism comes with the timing- the movie arrives just days before the presidential election."

There seems to be a pattern when it comes to pro-Bush administration media (while this film was certainly not touted as such) that the books and movies what share this slant are eagerly reviewed by papers such as The Washington Times and The Wall Street Journal, both known to cater to the Bush administration's policies. While a book like Barrie Zwicker's "Towers of Deception: The Media Cover-up of 9/11" receives little or no coverage by the mainstream media. They won't touch it with a ten and a half foot pole...and for good reason, they'd have their senior editors and Ceo's of those media companies breathing down their neck to pull it.
Consider the following...

Concentration of media ownership (also known as media consolidation) is a commonly used term among those who are concerned that the majority of the media outlets are owned by a small number of conglomerates and corporations -- especially those who view such consolidation as detrimental, dangerous, or otherwise worrying -- to characterize ownership structure of mass media industries. These individual media industries are often referred to as a 'Media Institution'. Media ownership may refer to states of oligopoly or monopoly in a given media industry, or to the importance of a low number of media conglomerates. Large media conglomerates include Disney, National Amusements, Time Warner, Viacom, News Corp, Bertelsmann AG, Sony, General Electric, Vivendi SA and Lagard&egrave;re Group.

For example, movie production is known to be dominated by major studios since the early 20th Century; before that, there was a period in which Edison's Trust monopolized the industry. The music and television industries recently witnessed cases of media consolidation, with Sony Music Entertainment's parent company merging their music division with Bertelsmann AG's BMG to form Sony BMG and TimeWarner's The WB and CBS Corp.'s UPN merging to form The CW. In the case of Sony BMG, there existed a "Big Five" (now "Big Four") of major record companies, while The CW's creation was an attempt to consolidate ratings and stand up to the "Big Four" of American network (terrestrial) television.

There may also be some large-scale owners in an industry that are not the causes of monopoly or oligopoly. Clear Channel Communications, especially since the Telecommunications Act of 1996, acquired many radio stations across the United States, and came to own more than 1,200 stations. However, the radio broadcasting industry in the United States and elsewhere can be regarded oligopolistic regardless of the existence of such a player. Because radio stations are local in reach, each licensed a specific part of airwave by the FCC in a specific local area, any local market is served by a limited number of stations. In most countries, this system of licensing makes many markets local oligopolies. The similar market structure exists for television broadcasting, cable systems and newspaper industries, all of which are characterized by the existence of large-scale owners. Concentration of ownership is often found in these industries.

For this we can in part thank the "Golden Boy" of the Republican's, Michael Powell... "the chairman of the FCC, Powell led from his long-stated libertarian philosophy of deregulation of communications. Powell saw excessive regulation as stifling to technological innovation, and led the charge to open up markets in VoIP, Wi-Fi, and Broadband over Powerline (BPL)."

Did you catch the bit where General Motors was listed as a "Large media conglomerate" ?... Than you might also remember point 1 which referred to the fact the General Motors employed MS&L, the P.R. firm that is also employed by the Army". I'd have to research this more to see if there is any connection, but I just found this to be interesting and a point worth looking into.

3. Eric Manes, the producer of Voices of Iraq. His filmography includes:

2005  Dodging Bullets, writer, Warner Bros.
2004  Voices of Iraq, producer, Magnolia Pictures
2002  The Mayor, creator, executive producer, Columbia Tristar
2003  CHiPs, writer, executive producer, Warner Bros.
2002  The Brazilian, writer, Paramount
2002  Catch, writer, executive producer, CBS
2002  Beautiful People, writer, executive producer, USA Networks
2001  HRT, writer, executive producer, CBS, Columbia TriStar
2001  Inside Fear, creator, executive producer, MTV
2001  Faces of Fear, creator, executive producer, MTV
2000  MTV's Fear, creator, executive producer, MTV
2000  3000 Miles to Graceland, writer, producer, Warner Bros.
1998  Hindenburg, writer, 20th Century Fox
1998  They Come at Night, producer, indie
1997  Campfire Tales, writer, producer, New Line Cinema
1997  Lowball, producer, Cinequinon
1996  Phat Beach, producer, Orion Pictures
1995  Where Do Planes Sleep?, producer, Indie

Some pretty big names in there... 20th Century Fox, Warner, Paramount, MTV... I think its safe to classify those under "Large media conglomerates".

So to sum up my thoughts, while I myself have not come to any absolute conclusions regarding the true origin and intent of this film, I think there are a lot of interesting connections that this film has with the Bush Administration and the government in general. Understanding how the media corporations work and just how close the ties are to our government, I think there is a good chance that this film was indeed at least influenced by the Bush Administration. Whether its a biased film or not, I think the eyes of the children in this film speak volumes after you strip away political medium that finally broadcast their faces onto our television sets back here in the United States. So in short, view this film with a discerning eye and let us not forget the Iraqis themselves who are caught up in all of this.