Early Almodovar like MATADOR is more fun because the characters are so unique and outrageous. One thing remains consistent though with him over the years--his characters are all driven to extremes by desire(to the point of obsession). Matador is fun because even though the two lead characters share a dark desire (a sex-death urge) they are each so flamboyant like artists who seek to make their ultimate creative gesture. In Matador obsession is taken to an extreme which makes it exciting but also absurd and so comic. About the time of KIKA Almodovar began concentrating less on character and more on complicated plots, his characters still had dark desires but those desires no longer had the incorruptibility of obsession. KIKA was a schizophrenic film which wasn't enough fun to be a comedy and yet had too many absurd touches to be a film noir(though the last 20 minutes of that picture certainly was film noir). It was as if Kika was an awkward but necessary transition film and it felt like one. However with LIVE FLESH Almodovar has made a complete film noir from start to finish. Oddly enough it feels like this is the film he has been wanting to make for many years. It lacks the magic realism and passionate obsession that was so captivating and entertaining in a film  like Tie Me Up Tie Me Down and it also lacks stars that shine as bright but it more than makes up for it with a perfectly constructed plot. Live Flesh has what might be the most imaginative plot of any movie in recent years. It successfully presents a half dozen interconnected lives in a way that allows each one to fully come to life and each characters destiny is interrelated with every other characters destiny in a way that makes it one of the most complex narrative puzzles I have ever seen. Its complex piece of filmmaking which never makes a wrong move.  The plot makes it a noir but a very sophisticated noir. Desire as always is the driving force and obsession but this plot takes place not in the realm of art(as some of those earlier Almodovars did, which I still love)but in a more earthen realm. Almovodar gives this film a specific time frame, setting his plot firmly in reality. It begins in 1970 during a time of Fascist oppression in Spain. The main character is a victim of circumstance in every way. His mother was a prostitute and he was born on a bus and ends up losing his virginity with a drug addict who he bcomes instantly addicted to. When he makes a return visit to her apartment she rejects him, a fight breaks out, the cops arrive and someone is inadvertently or purposely shot. The plot never lets up. Desire comes to life and is betrayed in one scene after another. And yet  despite being a hard core noir with gritty realism(as opposed to Almodovars signature magic realism)this film ends with the realization of the main characters obsession. It is a long and dark and circuitous route to get there and yet there is light at the end of this winding labyrinth of desire. Highly recommended. A+.