My main attraction to this movie was the fact that Mark Wahlberg and Joaquin(WA-KEEN) Phoenix starred together.  Well, it ended up being a pretty big disappointment in my book.  If you looking for a good Mark Wahlberg flick, "Boogie Nights" or "Three Kings" is definitely the way to go.  As for Phoenix, your best bet would be "Gladiator", although I'm sure everyone is tired of that by now.
On the amazon.com Editorial Review, at one point, compares "The Yards" to "The Godfather".  Not really.  It's an all-star cast just like "The Godfather", which includes Wahlberg, Phoenix, Charlize Theron, Ellen Burstyn, Faye Dunaway, and James Caan(who was in "The Godfather").  The cast just isn't utilized the way it could have been.  Charlize Theron is an awesome actress who just stands around and looks pretty in most of her scenes.  James Caan plays a pretty good bad guy, and Phoenix, well, everybody by now knows he's the guy we LOVE to HATE.  Wahlberg is a great actor when used right, and he just doesn't live up to his potential this time around.
The plot is quite intriguing from the get-go, but loses it's flavor about 30 minutes in.  Leo(Wahlberg's name in "Planet of the Apes as well, coincidence?) has just gotten out of jail and wants to get back to normal, and support his struggling mother.  He takes a job with Willie who does all of Leo's uncle's dirty work.  Uncle Frank runs the train business around his area, and is the stepfather of Charlize Theron's character, which would make her Leo's cousin.  Phoenix and Theron play an "engaged" couple.  Well, Leo eventually finds out what Willie does, and ends up on the run from the cops.  As the plot evolves, we find out that the two cousins were "caught together" at the age of fifteen.  Here we have a pretty interesting sub-plot, but nothing ever really happens there.  So, we move on and Leo does everything in his power to stop Frank and Willie.  I guess it's only fitting that as the film closes, the cameras on Leo riding a subway.
Onto the features of the DVD.  The best feature here is unquestionably the transfer.  The transfer is pretty much flawless, and I caught myself more intrigued by the transfer than the fim itself half the time.  Then we've got a behind-the-scenes look at the film which is okay, but nothing great.  There's a commentary which is also decent, and original concept art.  Finishing off the DVD are a trailor from this movie and several unadvertised Miramx/Dimension movie trailors.
This movie isn't great and again, I find myself wanting to give it 3.5 stars, but there are no .5's(which Amazon should consider).  If your into semi-intriguing plotlines, and the burrows of New York, give this a try.  If you just like Phoenix or Wahlberg, go for the movies I mentioned earlier.