Weed and philosophy aren't usually two things that we think of as compatible, but Tim Blake Nelson's witty, literate script and Edward Norton's dual-role virtuoso acting make them seem like peanut butter and jelly.

When we first meet Norton's Bill Kincaid, he's delivering a philosophy lecture to a mesmerized audience of Brown students, and Nelson allows this sequence several minutes to develop and present a heavy conceptual point. He follows this with a controlled-slapstick sequence in which a female student attempts to seduce Bill, only to be interrupted at an awkward-looking juncture by his staid secretary, who delivers the news that kicks the whole plot into motion: Bill's twin brother Brady has died. Bill reluctantly heads home only to discover that his brother is alive and well and has drawn him into a fustercluck of epic proportions.

The seesawing effect of following tension or heavy emotions with smart, masterfully written comedy is something Nelson sticks with throughout his screenplay, and this rhythm serves the plot well until about the final fourth, when unexpected and highly implausible violence erupts and compromises the overall quality somewhat. The characters who initiate the violence, two peaceful, philosophically-inclined, perpetually-baked good ol boys, have up to this point shown no inclination whatsoever to the sort of bloodlust that fuels the crime they commit, and a minor character who had previously served no purpose is clumsily inserted into the aftermath seemingly for the sole purpose of justifying more mayhem.

But there's a lot more good than bad here, especially if you read poetry and philosophy or grow dank 'dro. Ed Norton literally looks and behaves like two completely different people and is riveting in both roles. Nelson inhabits his second-banana role like wearing a second skin and delivers a natural performance. Keri Russell's Janet, a love interest for Bill, actually does and says things a real woman might say and do and has a whole personality, which puts Tim Blake Nelson ahead of 90% of the male scriptwriters writing movies these days. Janet is a plausible person, not just a flimsy wish-fulfillment fantasy insertion character who exists only to reflect on the males in her orbit. Susan Sarandon is her usual drawling, easygoing self as Bill and Brady's pothead mom, a vital and attractive sixtysomething woman who has decided, for her own eccentric reasons, to voluntarily put herself in a nursing home despite having no visible infirmities. Richard Dreyfus turns up to briefly amuse as a local crime boss who happens to be an esteemed civic leader in Tulsa, Oklahoma's Jewish community, which is apparently a real thing (Tim Blake Nelson is himself a Jew from Tulsa).

The strong characterizations, beautiful dialog and literacy of the plot as a whole make this movie worth spending money on. Bummer of a climax though.