My kids are two and three and they liked this movie, so two stars for that.  I think it is awful. The wolves are dumb looking and the story was a good idea but with NO research nor prior knowledge of wolves behavior at all they may as well have dressed people up in furs and made the movie about a tribe of people not a pack of wolves.  I'll give creative license in cartoons but this is just too full of ignorance and dumb jokes.  I am very much disappointed as well because I was looking forward to this show.  The first Balto was so much better AND better informed.  Also it grates on me that they talk about the pack being half alpha and half omega, do the writers not know what those two words mean?!  Alpha means beginning or number one, there is ONLY one alpha female and one alpha male in a pack (a mated pair usually).  They lead the pack but do not do all the work.  You could call their second-in-commands beta's if you want and you could even go down the line but some of the wolves have almost the same status in the pack so further than beta might get confusing.  Packs are NEVER as large as the ones in the movie because a pack that big would kill every last prey animal in their territory just trying to feed themselves.  And YES wolves DO eat berries and other wild fruits along with fish mice deer elk caribou and anything else they CAN eat to have a full diet BUT they don't eat the healthy large animals because there is huge risk to life and limb in trying to take one down and they know that. (If you don't believe they eat fruit try and give your dog some.  Chances are they will gobble it down.  My dogs favorite is Kiwi)
I know this isn't supposed to be an educational film or anything but the least they can do is keep the animal characters true to their forms, after all you wouldn't make a movie about nice and nurturing shark parents (they eat their young by the way) because it isn't in their natures to be nurturing and it just makes the idea ridiculous and stupid.
These are just a few examples, the show is highly flawed and not funny enough to make up for it.  It seems to TRY to teach kids wrong ideas about just bout everything in it.  I like the French-Canadian golfing goose.  He is funny anyway.  And the librarian/biker couple that features for five minuets.