I have not read the book by Nicholas Sparks -- however, the description of the life of the woman sounded hauntingly familiar:  middle aged woman who has had the year from heck (mother of 2 kids, left by her cheating husband, and grieving the loss of a parent) living in North Carolina, seeks the strength and peace of the outer banks of NC.

That pretty much sums up my life for the last year.  I have even joked (even before I found out about this movie or the book) that I probably would never get married unless Richard Gere showed up on my doorstep.

So when I saw this movie featured on Amazon VOD, I had to check it out.  The cinematography was amazing and so characteristic of our frequent trips to Ocean Isle Beach (though the supposed drive out of Raleigh bugged the heck out of me because there is no Spanish Moss in Raleigh!)  Of course, Richard Gere is, well... Richard Gere.

I loved the story line and some of the quotes I have saved because it really sums up my feelings about my own marriage (and now divorce).  The ending was not expected at all... after the movie I was balling my eyes out because every thing was so "spot on" for the most part.

There were a few things I didn't like -- I didn't think the chemistry between Richard Gere and Diane Lane was believable -- Lane was definitely the weak link in the movie.  If you watch any other Gere movies (like Shall We Dance w/ Susan Sarandon) he always seems to be really enjoying his time with his leading ladies... With Diane Lane, it seemed like he was just going through the motions and as a result, not his best effort.

I also didn't care for how the Mom's character interacted with her teenage daughter at the end.  The daughter is supposed to be a 16-year-old rebellious teenager.  The mom winds up (in my opinion) treating her more like a therapist and friend when she should have continued to be the parent... in a divorce, you need your kids to know that you are still the parent and can be counted on... perhaps if the daughter was in her 20s, then that part of the story might have been more appropriate.

However, I suppose I have these criticism just because I can relate so well to the story (unfortunately) though I really wish Richard Gere would show up on MY doorstep to save my life too!

So warning -- this movie will make you cry -- especially if you are a middle aged divorced mom like me.  But you will not be able to pass it up because some of the nuggets in dialogue will encapsulate your feelings so well.  And if nothing else, the music, scenery, and fantasy that is having Richard Gere love you and accept you unconditionally will definitely be something to sooth your wounded soul.

[NCJAR]