People try to say that these old works (merely 110 years old) need to be made 'relevant', as if they would somehow NOT be relevant if the creative artistic director didn't come along and completely restage the event in a manner which deviates from the author's instruction.

How would you feel if, on going into the museum, instead of seeing the old, boring, conservative paintings by Van Gogh and El Greco, the museum were instead to serve up for you a multi-media mash up?  If anyone actually wants to see a Van Gogh painting, just pat the ingenue on the head and advise them that they are seeing the 'real' spirit of Van Gogh in the mashup, because surely Van Gogh would never use oil paints today, or paint pictures of old chairs and fields.

At issue here is the word 'interpretation'.  The author has left behind musical direction, which has been followed, albeit as an 'interpretation'.  The author has left behind stage direction, which has been ignored, or cast so far from the author's written direction that we can reasonably debate whether it is an interpretation, or an orthogonal deviation.

I'll grant the reader that conventions have changed, history has changed us, but that doesn't mean Van Gogh is no longer relevant to a great many people.  What the director should remember is that the audience has a role as its own interpreter.  The director brings the old work to life, living anew before our eyes, a miracle, and we, in the rush of our modern lives, can stop for a moment in Wagner's dusky thoughts, breathing anew for our considerations, and value our own interpretations, for our own lives, and for our own times.  Sometimes the plain, apparent distance in time, from the old conventions to the new, helps an audience to create their own intellectual abstractions.

And if someone wants to make a new opera, by all means, please, go right ahead.  I could imagine this director enjoying Kraftwerk/Phillip Glass compositions and a plot similar to the Matrix.  Have at it.

There have been numerous cases over time where musical direction has sheepishly force-fit convincing artistic expressions to fit modern styles.  Naturally, this is sold to the public as bold evolution.  Generally, riding the reputation of the older work, new fans can be brought in on the basis of the new style, but the artistry as a whole suffers, since the work has been fundamentally altered not out of some inherent need, but the tastes of convention.

This is a subjective area, so everyone's going to have their own valid opinion, but my opinion is that while new representations certainly win my curiosity, and I'm happy to see people facing challenges, there is a responsibility to convey the original work of art as 'conceived', and to be honest with ourselves that this is actually being done.