Ever wondered where films such as Friday the 13th, Scream, and all those obnoxious late night horrors got their ideas? Specifically the hidden, knife weilding psychos. Black Christmas is the correct 2-word answer.
It starts when a person (seen from his POV) sneaks into a sorority house. When I first heard this I thought of the slasher/cheerleader/sorority house movies (very bad) and cringed. But Black Christmas turned out to be anything but.
Black Christmas made no big splash when it first came out, but now a days its considered a significant part of horror cinematic history, because more than a few big time horror flicks have used some of the fear inducing elements of this film. When me and my boyfriend watched it we kept saying, "Oh I recognize that!" and it was very fun to see the untamed original form of some of these devices.
The film lets you get to know the characters though (unlike modern slasher flicks)  - from the pregnant Jess who is considering abortion, to the foul mouthed, alcoholic sorority matron. Quite a few interesting characters live in this sorority house. And then BAMN, they begin to get killed off, with the viewer rarely expecting the next victim,
A LIL SOILER ALERT
Black Christmas is one of the first "mainstream" slasher films. "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre" came out the same year, but awhile before both came Mario Brava's "Reazione A Catenea". This was (debatably) the first slasher movie, and the friday the 13th series was based upon it. Black Christmas adds a depth of mystery - you never do find out who the killer is, or what his motives are. For some viewers this adds freakiness. Unlike newer slasher movies, where at the end the killer is revealed (and usually) dealt with.
Remember those movies with the stranger calling and uttering obscene things into the phone with a dangerous altered voice? That part is a direct take off from Black Christmas - the first (horror) movie to use the phone as a method of terrorization. Part of the horror of the film is included in the strange phone calls. Just when you think everything is safe.... the phone rings. In the DVD version I've seen, some of the obscenities and lewdness of the calls are edited out (compared to the version I saw a long time ago). I've read on numerous websites that this was to make the film "less offending". 
Overall, it's an enjoyable watch. While it isn't superbly good and unsurpassable, its great to see the foundations of modern slashers. Be prepared for something a bit more serious and with a more refined style than your usual slasher. I only wish the ending had been more.... realistic. I never did understand why the police didn't search the attic....