I have been teaching a Basic Design class for over 5 years and Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs has been a part of my curriculum to the present.  Why am I mentioning this Disney classic?  Because there are correlations between Waking Life and the infamous, "Sleeping Death" in Snow White, missed by most if not all of these reviews.

I think everyone is anxious about the issues concerning death through faith and philosophy and they miss some crucial points from Waking Life.

The first, the medium itself.  Snow White was Disneys' first full length feature animation film and it used a film/animation process called Rotoscope.  This is where the realistic characters like Snow White, the Prince and Evil Princess were all modeled after live action footage.  This is also used in Waking Life through a more contemporary digital process created by the animator while attending the MIT media lab.  So the medium is the first correlation.

Next, the message (if you will):  Snow White is full of issues concerning gender roles, sexuality, aging, work ethic, purity, faith, death and so forth.  These are deep and troubling aspects of life generalized or simplified in Snow White. Disney's contrivence from the sexually and socially charged Brothers' Grimm fairytale creates more disturbing ideals concerning conformity to social norms (i.e. gender roles; women home/men at work; beauty/vanity). Also,notice the number of writers who worked on the film in the closing credits.  This alone raises some speculation on these issues and how to draw [sic] these ideals up.

Why does this matter?  Look and discover all the loose ends in Waking Life.  Mysteries revealing only more mysteries.  Nothing is pinned down and this flows througout the neo-phychedellic animation like levels of moving water.  Life can't be held and understood. And here in Waking Life, death is sought along with life.  "Sleeping Death" in Snow White is somehow an avoidance of life's terms, the end.  Not really dying, just sleeping and awaiting the "...life, happily everafter".  Where at least Waking Life confronts death as an awakening and a continuum of learning like life can be.  Anyone who sees this movie and barks 'psuedo-philosophy' is attempting to pin life and death down.  Waking Life is just a movement through space in an aesethically pleasing way.

Believe me, these questions and philosophical meanderings are by far more enertaining than the fill and fluff of countless long songs in Snow White.  Count the length of songs vs. story/action in Snow White, it's unbearable at times.

I give this movie  Four Stars, understanding how these countless questions can burden ones' mind.  However, the animation gets Five.  Oh, believe me, I know there is more to write and even discuss between these two animation classics.