This film was such a surprise. Van Damme is in top form, actually acts, an his fight scenes are incredible. John Hyams (son of director Peter Hyams) captures all of the action clearly while retaining a particularly brutal style. The opening car chase alone will get you into it.

It's not necessary to see the other Universal Soldier films, in fact this movie ignores all of them but the first. The only thing you'd miss out on is some subtleties in Dolph Lundgrens performance (yes, Lundgren's performance has subtleties!). However if you are a fan of the original film, this is a great sequel. Side stepping the second film entirely, this one finds Van Damme's Luc Devereaux in a rehabilitation program to bring him back into society. When the son of a murdered general uses an improved version of the original UniSol's to occupy the Chernobyl nuclear reactor, Van Damme is forced back into action.

Of course there's a lot more to it than that, more than you'd expect. Van Damme puts in some great work here, some of the best of his career. The movie doesn't feel the need to shoe horn in a love story or unnecessary plotlines, focusing on character and brutal fight scenes. Van Damme stays out of most of the first half of the movie, at least as far as the action is concerned, letting some truly fantastic martial artists steal the show until he arrives. When he does, he kicks some serious ass. Some stand out scenes include Van Damme clearing an entire building in one continuous shot. There's also some very poignant moments between him and Dolph Lundgren, who is brought back and handled in a very intelligent way. Their fight scene is also exceptional.

Basically if you're an action fan, a martial arts fan, a Van Damme fan, or a fan of this series you should definitely check this out. It's a big part of a growing trend of DTV action movies that are of a very high quality, sometimes much better than the more expensive films that arrive in theaters. Some of other good ones are Undisputed I and II, Ninja, and Assassination Games.