Fans of Disney's straight-to-video sequels for all their classic tales that do NOT need sequels should avoid this movie.
No cute talking animal sidekicks.
No bursting out into song.
No dancing or singing silverware.
Atlantis: The Lost Empire is a rousing adventure tale about explorers -- some with hidden agendas -- searching for the lost realm of Atlantis. The main character is Milo Thatch, a linguist consigned to watching the boiler at his university because of his outlandish ideas. Milo, after being brusquely rejected by the university, is hired on by a wealthy friend of his late grandfather to accompany an expedition to the lost continent to retrieve the Atlantean's power source, presumably for the betterment of humanity.
The plot itself really does not contain anything wholly original or inventive, but it doesn't need to. The movie is not trying to reinvent the wheel, but, like the original Indiana Jones movie, remind you of why you loved adventure stories in the first place. The writers and directors also do a very good job balancing humor and adventure/suspense. "Mole," the drilling expert, nearly steals every scene he is in, but he is not overused nor is he so prominent in his scenes that he detracts from the overall atmosphere.
The animation is a nice departure for the Mouse House: as others have noted, strongly influenced by Japanese anime and Mike Mignola's signature style. Don't let this throw you -- I am not a fan of anime, but Disney manages to capture a lot of its essence and vitality without making it "too" anime for US viewers. If you doubt me, watch the fight between Helga, the vampy second in command, and another character near the climax of the movie. Incredibly smooth but still retaining a lot of hard, sharp lines.
A lot of work went into this film to add nice touches. Disney apparently invented a writing system and language for the Atlanteans, though they conveniently also understand early 20th century English. Disney also has learned from Dreamworks and done a fantastic job marrying digital animation with traditional hand-drawn cell animation. The battle between the biomechanical guardian of Atlantis and the explorers' submarine is phenomenal, as is the finale -- a battle filled with Atlantean flying machines, a burning hot air balloon and edge-of-your seat fights.
The plot does move along very quickly -- sometimes too quickly for any substantial characterization to take place. Milo and the supporting characters DO have distinct personalities; however, they are not really allowed to go beyond one or two dimensions. The voice talent does their best -- there is not one bad performance in the bunch. Michael J Fox, Cree Summer and James Garner stand out as especially good, and Leonard Nimoy was the perfect choice for the voice of the Atlantean king. When the movie was over, I was left wanting more -- which, in the long run, is far better than wanting less or nothing.
As other reviewers have noted, the details of the storyline don't always stand up to close examination. And the mechanics/logistics of what happens to Kida (as opposed to what happened to her mother and why) are not entirely clear. 
If you are ready for a straight-ahead adventure yarn -- especially if, like me, you have a weakness for lost civilizations and lands -- and are not overly concerned about deep character development and plot minutatiea, I can heartily recommend this film. Stunning animation, a great score, and adrenalin-inducing adventure await your exploration. Those with strict sensibilities for "realism" and demand animated features adhere to a rigid Disney formula should explore elsewhere.