I watched the DVD special edition and have to say that I was overall very disappointed.  The subject idea was great, the execution excellently performed, but the overall text and music was pretty terrible. It drags on far too long, and then almost completely flubs the ending.  It mixes decades worth of events all together like a soup and incorrectly implies many things that weren't know till decades later were known and planned by the creators.  As someone that has studied the historical events and read the actual documents, this opera dangerously misrepresents the events and struggles of the first bomb test.  My fear is people will see this and then think they believe they 'understand' what happened.

The scores were *entirely* too wordy.  As someone who knows the science, I felt it had been sprinkled full of technological words that I don't think the authors understood. How? There was too much overly dramatic scoring on parts of conversations that didn't matter and none on the ones that should have.  Singing about icosahedral arrangement of detonators was nearly comical in an opera that's supposed to explore the emotional space of these events. People laughed in the showing I saw.

The disjointed telling doesn't help most of the time.  It felt like someone found a pile of letters and anecdotes from the events, mixed them around and just read them out loud.  Some are given too much emphasis, while others not enough.  Deeply scientific topics nearly in the same sentence as moral and personal ones when the actual events and people involved were years apart.  Huge scenes are spent on what was relatively minor historial points, while not enough was spent on some of the truly groundbreaking.  The huge scene about the weather was a great example of what should not have gone on so long.  Ending in an aria about a diet and not eating chocolate cake?

Instead, it would have been great to tell the *themes* together with more clear direction between them.  There was a whole line of scientific work being done (can we do it) and a very separate, and parallel line of the morality (should we do it) and political/military attempts to make those choices.  A much better telling would be to show the problems as they were encountered and overcome interspersed with the moral questions those discoveries brought up in concert so one could understand why the different protests and interal struggles came up.  Instead, we have mixes of all themes together, topics that didn't come up till DECADES after the events, and makes it nearly impossible to empathize with the struggles of the characters. Honestly, it feels like Adams and Sellars didn't even TALK to anyone that knew what was going on and just sort of arrogantly tried to write this without trying to understand.

The choreography was excellently performed, but too distracting most of the time.  There were far too many people moving around in the background that did more to distract from the story than add to it.  Again, long stretch are spent on scenes that should be cut to just a few moments, and vice-versa.  It's just another sign to me that Adams and Sellars didn't really understand their subject matter.

Regardless of which side of this you stand on, I do not recommend opera if they wish to understand the scientific, moral, or emotional impact of these events in the least.  Honestly, if you think this opera even remotely conveys the truth of the topic - I've become very scared for our dialog on the subject.  Picking up a good historical book on the subject with the real documents quoted would do you eternally better.