Okay. Just to get this out of the way; Yes, the title change is stupid, but I understand the meaning behind it. Paramount wants to market the entire package of Indiana Jones films, from the theatrical kind to the ones made for television. Since "Raiders of the Lost Ark" was the only movie that didn't have the Indiana Jones name in the title, newcomers to the series would have to &lt;gasp&gt; read the back of the tape to know that it was the same character. It's silly to think that people would not know that this was the first Indiana Jones film, but to the newbie, it might not be so obvious. I think we ought to cut Paramount a little slack here. It's not like a 1980's Ted Turner colorizing every black-and-white he got his hands on. It's just a title.
If you decline to buy this movie simply because the box has a different title, you are a fool. The film inside the tape remains unchanged. The opening credits say "Raiders of the Lost Ark," as it should. So, you are losing NOTHING by purchasing this breathtaking, heart-stopping ode to the "B" movies of the Golden Age of Cinema.
Now, onto the actual film. This is quite possibly the perfect movie. Alright. Before your laughter gives you an embolism, let me explain. Movies are here to entertain. They are made to make us laugh, cry, yearn for something, root for the good guys, boo the bad guys, and feel like you've been through the whole amazing sequence of events right with the heroes.
Not only does "Raiders" do all of that in abundance, but the film also earns special merit for changing moviemaking as we knew it. No previous film was as non-stop, as bold, or as fast-paced as this one was. It upped the ante in terms of what a movie audience was to expect from a film. Steven Spielberg hardly lets you gasp for your next breath before he snatches it from you with the next incredible scene. (It's no wonder that it is a story co-written by the director of one of the most popular films of all time, George Lucas.)
After "Raiders" was made, it seemed like every film wanted to aspire to the same level of excitement, and sadly, few have even come close.
Do not be deterred by the title-change. You would do yourself a great disservice if you were to pass on owning this masterpiece of "on-the-edge-of-your-seat" filmmaking.
Now, I'm going to pop in my own copy and donate a few more gasps of pure excitement and joy toward Mr. Spielberg's work. If he had a dollar for every time I gasped, he'd be a . . . Wait. He already IS a millionaire. Oh well. 
Buy the darn movie. You'll LOVE it!