I give this movie 2 stars because it tries to be more gentle and is more well documented then most material that is out there that is similar.  Unfortunately, many Catholics as well as Protestants are unaware of how to explain the Blessed Mother's role in bringing people to Jesus and bringin His triumph.  Since all the people of God who are working to bring people to the cross and resurrection of Jesus play their part, it is only natural that she who said yes to God to undo Eve's disobedience would play a part in bringing the world back to Jesus.  Of course protestants and Catholics know that Jesus is the only way to salvation (Acts 4:12, John 14:6)however Paul tells us that we do share in the sufferings of Christ as His body (Colossians 1:24) - and a note to many protestants, the Apostle Paul's writing of sharing in the sufferings of Christ does not take away from Christ's unique Mediatorship or His sole work of redemption on the Cross as both God and man.  We must consider, how much more since the Blessed Mother's heart was pierced by a sword (read Simeon's prophecy) would she share in her Son's suffering and fulfill the Apostle Paul's words ABOUT CHRIST.  So when she says that her Immaculate Heart will save the world, we must acknowledge that Paul tells us that we will also judge angels, AND IN EPHESIANS 5 HE TELLS US THAT THE ENTIRE CHURCH WILL BE THE SPOTLESS BRIDE OF CHRIST, THEREFORE MARY IS JUST THE FIRST TO SHARE IN THE ROLE THAT WILL BE THE PRIVILEDGE OF THE SAINTS.  She is saying that she is sharing in the glory of the one true King who she also worships and adores, the Lord Jesus Christ.  As the firstfruits of all of us (1 Corinthians 15, 1 Thessalonians 4, Revelation 12) and as our Mother and sister in the Lord whom Jesus gave to us (John 19:26-27, Revelation 12:17) we should understand that she has a powerful role in the defeat of the coming antichrist (Revelation 13) and bringing the world to the only Way of salvation who is Jesus Christ.  She does not detract from this Truth, rather she exemplifies it as being the first member of the Redeemed in the Mystical Body of Christ, redeemed from the momen of her Immaculate Conception and taken up into heaven as all Christians will be (1 Corinthians 15, Revelation 12, 1 Thessalonians 4).  May Christ richly bless all and draw both protestants and Catholic together closer to Him!