As far as big-studio Hollywood movies go, this is a worthy movie delivered in a subtly slick fashion, wrapped around a good heart -- namely that of Jamie Foxx's character, a cab driver who aspires to be more, and perhaps in another life, his big heart would have taken him onto a more lucrative path, or one more fulfilling. His dreams lead him to get into his cab everyday, serving people who have places to go, helping them along their own dreams, while his own get put on hold. But the movie's not as deep as it sounds. It's a rather straightforward, simple movie that goes easily on a linear path from point A to point B. If it weren't for Jamie Foxx's well-delivered, kind-hearted portrayal, (one that we can readily feel/empathize with), this movie would be yet another one for the low-budget, clearance bin. This is a step in the right direction for American filmmakers and studios who tend to place CGI, special effects and car chases over everything else, but the film as a whole lacks heart -- and simply having "quiet" scenes with melancholy music as Foxx's character's cab drives lonely, nighttime stretches of highway doesn't substitute for substance/depth. If only the film aimed a little bit higher, for a more wise, intelligent audience, it could have been one to buy and deserve repeated viewings. But as it is, it's a nice-looking, ultimately feel-good movie colored with dark blue hew of night. And unfortunately, once it hits its near-the-end climax, most viewers will already know what's going to happen and who's going to be there at the end as the credits roll. If only it aimed a little higher, and not for the simpleton audiences that regard the likes of "The Last Samurai," "Pearl Harbor" (with Ben Affleck) and other big-name blockbuster-type movies as great films. As it stands, it's a mere, superficially entertaining movie which tries to pass off slick cinematography and melancholy notes as heart/substance -- a nice diversion for a couple hours, but not all too memorable, with little that you can't catch upon your first viewing.