The biggest revelation contained in (or more to the point, censored from) the carefully written and edited video titled the "Goebbles Experiment" is the use of the film itself as a Pro-Homosex Propaganda Tool.

 While it has been clearly established that the Nazi Party was created and led by Homo-Anal Coprophile Ephebophiles such as founder Ernst Rohm and his prot&eacute;g&eacute; Hitler, this fact as well as the nation wide purge known as the "Night of the Long Knives" have been completely censored from the video.

 Ernst Rohm is Never mentioned once, despite his central role in forming and leading the Nazis and their homosex Storm Troopers during their rise to power. The facts of the purge of 1934 and Goebbles thoughts on it are completely omitted and the story simply skips over those central events as if they never happened, which is good propaganda if not good historical documentary ethics.

 In a propaganda trick that even Goebbles would approve of, the only mention of the Homosex Perversions that pervaded the Nazi movement is in Goebbles lamentations that he is being unfairly labeled as one of the same. This `unfair' characterization is handled deftly by the editors focus on Gobbles eventual marriage and children, which by inference discounts the well documented facts about his boy raping comrades like Rohm and Heines - and of course Hitler (detailed in Machtan's book "The Hidden Hitler").

 Brief mention is made of Goebbles unhappiness with his early work in Munich, but nothing of the conditions that led to this - despite the fact that Munich was a nexus for the pervasive endemic Homosex Ephebophilia that truly characterized the Nazis and particularly Rohm's Storm Troopers (who often blackmailed the parents of boys they raped). Brief mention is also made of Reifenstahl and her movie 'Triumph of the Will'- but this was essentially a remake of an earlier film "Der Seig Des Glaubens" that was first widely distributed then recalled and destroyed after the purge of 1934, because it showed Rohm in a positive light as Hitler's equal in the movement. Again, No Mention of this propaganda film or of the central role of Rohm in a documentary supposedly about Nazi propaganda.

 Thus in the end a rather slick hollyweird documentary about a propagandist, becomes in itself Propaganda - carefully sanitizing the ugly truth of the rank perversions that made the Nazis what they were, because it suits a more modern agenda of the hollyweird homosex lobby.

 Beyond that - there are a few good quotes, particularly those about "Change" - which could have (and perhaps were) recycled by the next generation of fascists for the 2008 Presidential Campaign.

 I recommend that those interested in the deliberately `missing' pieces to the puzzle - read a copy of "The Pink Swastika" by Abrams and Lively, as well as view the History Channel documentary titled "Night of the Long Knives". Because only by augmenting the `Goebbles Experiment' with outside sources covering the Censored material - can one understand the propaganda experiment that is the video itself.