"Not Without My Daughter" is the story of an all-American house wife who acquiesces to her Iranian-American husband's wish to visit Iran.  Betty is reluctant to follow her husband "Moody" to his home country because she perceives it to be a dangerous place.  He assures her very lovingly that it will be safe and he will take care of her.  But when they get there, the culture clash is obvious: Betty is a brash outspoken woman compared to Iranian women, and Moody's personality completely changes.  They fall into the roles of the dominant husband and subservient wife.

The change in Moody's personality is ridiculously portrayed.  He goes from being a sweet, loving father and husband to a maniacal wife-beater who demands that his wife submit to his will.  The change occurs almost overnight.  After a brief visit, Moody dictates that the family will stay in Iran and establish a life there, and hardly ever lets Betty out of his sight.  He refuses to listen to her pleas to return to her home country.  Only when Betty appears to acquiesce to his plan does he give her minimal freedom.

I understand that the movie is based on a true story, and that the story on which the movie is based is probably very compelling.  However, the movie totally turned me off to the story.  It did not believably portray the evolution of Moody's character.  The black-and-white contrast between Moody's personality in America, and his personality in Iran cast Arabs in a horrible light and fed into American stereotypes about foreigners as "other".  The movie did draw attention to the plight of women in Arab countries, but other movies such as "Osama" have accomplished the same thing in a much more realistic way.  More than portraying the plight of women, "Not Without My Daughter" is an anti-Arab movie.  Nothing reinforces the anti-Arab, pro-America message more blatantly than the last scene of the movie, when Betty finally escapes her husband.  The movie closes with her glimpsing the American flag.  The music is valiant.  The camera speed slows.  America, the movie indicates, is the only place of true freedom.  I don't buy it.

Betty was also totally disrespectful of Iranian culture when she was there.  She did not make any attempt to fit in with the other women, even when she thought that she was just there for a short vacation.  She wore bright flowery dresses and no head dress.  She was brashly, embarrassingly American, and the movie portrayed this as though she was the normal one and the cultural expectations in Iran were ridiculous.  The movie paid no respect whatsoever to the culture.  Iranians were portrayed as pure bad, and American culture as pure good.  It was not a credible vision of the world.