I will begin with two caveats: the first is that 95% of the negative reviews you may have read are by people too dense to understand either movie/part of the story (Trust or Betrayal).  Yes, there are a FEW minor flaws, but any review that rambles about the horrors of these two works are just outright wrong, so take heart.  Second, if you're a fan of the Rurouni Kenshin television series, although these tell Kenshin's backstory, it is presented in a remarkably different manner.  The tv show was for kids.  I found it mostly enjoyable, but you have to be able to suspend your disbelief with the stalwart mindset of a child.  It just isn't realistic, not to mention it can't go more than thirty seconds without some childish joke or swirly eyes or other such nonsense.  This is a story for adults.  Not just for the grim mood and bloody scenes, but the subtlety (that probably isn't spelled right) of the story and voice acting (skip the next paragraph for more on that).  Be warned.

Now to correct some misconceptions (the review is in the next paragraph).  I mostly write this as disambiguity; I love this story too much to let so many mindless spartans warn anyone off of it.  I've read that the animation is crappy.  Nothing could be farther from the truth.  Every frame shows the detail the artists put into making it.  Colors are full, movement is realistic (especially intricate hand movements during sword play), and they even give visual clues to help you understand when the time frame has changed (the movie does a lot of recollecting a past experience, so it can be a little tricky the first time you see it to know when it is).  I've read that the fight scenes are poorly represented.  $%#$&^$$^$>?  I don't know what world these people live in.  It's a movie for adults.  No super ultra faster-than-light secret attacks here.  No announcing what the name of your next technique will be.  Kenshin is a very skilled assassin using a secret school of swordsmanship.  You can expect that to mean: efficiency of motion, elegance in stance and technique, and quick deaths if he's successful, but at the end of the day it's still a normal person swinging a normal sword in a humanly possible way.  Btw, the animation is extremely accurate in stance and rhythm of actual sword fighting.  There are many complaints about the plot being boring, but I guess people don't enjoy qualities in movies like character growth?  *Who needs to learn from what they've done?  Just keep killing people!  NOW!*  These same people also don't understand the subtlety of voice acting aimed at ages 8+.  Expressing emotion is done in more ways than yelling and waving your hands in the air, and in this work they choose very quiet ways of doing so.  (Did I mention it's for adults?)  Also, many commentators very freely misstate the facts of the movies (such as Saito being the leader of the Shinsengumi, when he is CLEARLY designated the leader of the 3rd squad).  Also complaints about the characters are very common, either that they don't have the characters from the tv show or that they don't like the personalities.  1)It's a prequel folks...KENSHIN DIDN'T KNOW THE TV CHARACTERS WHEN THE SERIES BEGAN!  2)Being a very serious movie, you don't see Hiko being an egomaniac grandstander, Kenshin saying oro after growing a lump on his head, or Saito making fun of other characters.  Hiko is a serious instructor/swordsman who practices the principles his style teaches and spends his free time philosophising on death, a very morbid subject.  Kenshin is an adolescent with a huge talent and desire to save the people of Japan from oppression, but is facing internal conflicts on the right way to do so.  Saito is a leader representing the Shogunate, responsible for quelling a rebellion.  If you bother to examine the personalities and their positions, you might just detect a theme *dun dun dunnnnnnnnn*.

As for an actual review, I would give this piece the highest praise possible.  The first time I saw it I was immediately hooked by the action, being a fan of feudal Japan.  I didn't really get what was going on about 30-45% of the time because of the frequent flashbacks, but I enjoyed it nonetheless.  I also happen to be a fan of movies you can watch a zillion times and still get something new out of it, and this fits the bill.  As you learn more about symbolism, particularly how it might apply to seasons, foliage, and color pallats, you get more out of it.  Sometimes it might be a different interpretation of the dialogue, or pick up on an inflection or facial expression you hadn't noticed/figured out before, or perhaps viewing the events through the perspective of a different character, but there are so many deeper things to get out of this visual treat.  And, if you are a big Rurouni Kenshin buff, you can get a few things out of it you might not otherwise (try watching it and bearing in mind that Saito may have been the chief spy for the Shinsengumi, and was intentionally a lower rank than he might otherwise be).  However, after seeing this, you will be forced to admit the utter tomfoolery of the television series...just saying.  The only reason I give it four stars is (unless I'm just slow) because if you only watch it once or twice, you probably won't have a clear understanding of the timeline.  Generally you'll understand what happened when, but about 10-15% of it will still be kind of hazy.  Still tremendously enjoyable, but with a little room for growth.  (Also, I figure if I give it 4 stars the review is more likely to be notices, and therefore helpful).