Walt Disney's highly ambitious venture into the marriage of animation and classical music is part acid-trip, and part experimental indie-film (long before either term was coined). Though flawed with a questionable format echoing a concert presentation and often tedious narrative by Deems Taylor, this often misunderstood film truly shines in DVD format as the crown jewel in the crown of the golden age of animation. Watching with commentary by John Canemaker, Roy Disney, and James Levine provides for a new 'insider' understanding of the film as well as placing each selection within historical context in regards of what was happening in art, film, culture, and music at the time. There is also a seperate commentary of quips from Walt Disney compiled by Canemaker which, while a good idea to put in such a feature, seems a little too patched together. The 'Making of' Featurette provides little new produciton material or drawings outside of what already exists in books and other similar 'making of' films but is interesting nonetheless. The film itself never looked better. Each stipple of drybrush and airbrush reads clearly and the often bold, crisp lines of the cel animation are like no other previous version. The sound, while muffled at times by the 'Fantasound' development of the studio in the late 1930's is the most pristine version of the recording that I have heard. With the additional Deems footage, and the inclusion an actual intermission, it would seem that this is THE version of Fantasia. Get your frame-by-frame button ready.

An interesting footnote: Although the box reads "Uncut", it is apparent in the Pastoral sequence that some editing was done in the sequence where the "Centaurettes" parade for their suitors. This is due to the appearance of a stereotypical pickaninny female Centaur who tends to the others. In one scene in particular as Bacchus struggles up some stairs, it seems as though she was digitally removed altogether having seen the film before when the same scene was tightly cropped. Whether the elimination of the character by the current studio is sensativity to Black audiences or over-political correctness and a white-washing of history is for the viewer to decide.