This was the first Fellini film I ever saw and I was awestruck. I saw it ironically on a videotape that my English teacher had taped it off of public television- channel 11 here in Chicago. However, she had erased over it(the first 3/4 of the movie), as I had asked her if she could tape the season finale of the first season of "Twin Peaks"-whoa, I'm dating myself! Thank you Mrs. Cantrell for introducing me to a master director and shaping me into what I am today; though I always tended to favor the weird, whimsical and offbeat. So, I immediately rushed to the video store and rented out a copy of "Juliet"("Giulietta degli Spiriti,") so I could watch the first part. The print on the video was pretty old and faded but I've been enjoying Criterion's excellent remaster. This dvd is stunning and the colors are so vibrant. It just reminds me of an Easter, pastel fantasy- all that is transgressing in Juliet's disturbed mind.

  In the opening scene, Juliet sets up for a romantic evening with her husband to celebrate their wedding anniversary but instead is disappointed when Giorgio comes home with an entourage of their freinds. Later, Juliet and freinds engage in a seance session with the assistance of Genius, the mystic. It is determined that Juliet is also gifted and has sort of a sixth sense and gravitates to spirits. Iris, a spirit that has surfaced from the seance follows Juliet throughout the film and becomes her conscience. Juliet escapes in her fantasies and hears so-called spirits may lead the viewer to believe she has gone off her rocker! Juliet's visions and or images vary from the beautiful to frightening. She's a tormented soul since her younger days as her childhood freind Laura committed suicide for love. Now as a lonely housewife she witnesses her husband calling out another woman's name as they lie in bed together. She suspects her husband is having an affair and hires private investigators. Juliet also appears to have an inferiority complex towards her overcritical mother and more "successful" older sister. In the interim Juliet befreinds Suzy, the lady of the villa next door. Suzy head of the bordello style household throws extravagantly lavish orgy filled parties and immerses Juliet in her freinds, weird play acting, sex and wine and even sets Juliet up with her nephew for an evening rendevous. Juliet struggles with her self; she desires to fulfill her lust for sex and man but the spirit of Laura is persuading her not to act upon her desires as it is sinful.

  Will Juliet find her inner peace? Will the spirits guide her or is it just all in her world of fantasy she has created for herself to escape from harsh realities of life including her husband's infidelity. Or will she follow the path of her childhood freind Laura who is in eternal peace.

  Julius-Allan H.