I am the type of guy who enjoys watching the movie monster win. Whether it's Jason killing stupid teenagers for the millionth time, or watching Captain Rhodes in Day of the Dead get torn in half by zombies to the delight of audience, I never get a feeling of unease, nor do I ever wonder why am I watching this. But Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer was the first horror film that really made me uncomfortable to watch but in a good way. This is a horror film where the monster is not a creature from the pits of hell, but actually the guy who lives down the block from us.
The plot is so simple: Henry, played to perfection by Michael Rooker, is a nomadic serial killer going from place to place taking his anger on random victims while at the same time, just seen as the guy next door. He shacks up with his ex con buddy Ottis and his sister and is seen as a man with a haunted past. When Ottis sees Henry kill two hookers for almost no reason, Ottis gets drawn into his world and the viewer is along for the ride. Henry even explains to Ottis and the viewer the do's and don'ts of killing people
One of the most disturbing scenes is where the two men go to a guys garage to buy a tv. The fat guy selling the stolen sets is seen as so disgusting that I wanted something bad to happen to him. When they do kill him, it is done in such a realistic way that it made me feel like I was witnessing an actual murder that happened at some point in time. Even when Henry and Ottis use a video camera to record the brutal (key word) murder of a mother father and son, it made me feel like I wanted to take a shower and not even think about it again.
This movie is an amazing example of low budget film-making that puts the audience right into the mind of a serial killer who is just as realistic as modern monsters like Gary Heidnik, Leonard Lake and Charles Ng and more. The one thing you could say about this movie is that the film never comments on the after effects of murder or even about why Henry is committing these horrible acts. Great Movie