Six people wake up one day and find themselves trapped in a labyrinth of cubical rooms equipped with deadly traps. They discover that each one of them possesses a skill that will enable them to overcome the dangers of this weird maze. 
Yes, it sounds cheesy, and yes it's teeming with clich&eacute;s. The opening scenes of the film don't exactly do a good job allaying fears that this movie will seriously suck, with some rotten dialogue and overwrought acting (the latter may be attributable to the fact that we are not familiar with these actors and therefore less forgiving in regards to their shortcomings). However, the premise of the movie alone should be enough to hook you and give you the patience to stick with it. If you do, you'll be happy after the film's 90 minute length has passed.
The movie quickly goes through a weird change, with interpersonal character reactions becoming more realistic, dialogue becoming more believable, and the tension increasing considerably. As the characters navigate the deadly construction, tension mounts as everyone's true nature is revealed. (Naturally, a situation like this will bring out the best -- and worst -- in anybody). The emphatic acting succeeds in garnering the viewer's utmost interest, almost as if he is the seventh member of the imprisoned party. When a trap is avoided, one feels a profound sense of gladness and relief. When the characters come to a point of desperation, the viewer naturally responds with a similar sense of despondency. At times the plot seems predictable, but there are enough unexpected twists to keep one guessing. Emotionally charged moments of character interaction match the breathless intensity of the trap scenes, which is very impressive.
The story line isn't too concerned with how the characters got there, or why. This is a tasteful decision, as I think too many explanations would have diluted the sense of intensity and the striking drama. Technically, the movie is also very well done. The set design is imposingly impressive in an almost creepy manner, with camera angles providing a good sense of claustrophobia. 
I've heard several very negative reviews for this movie, and I have to wonder weather or not we watched the same film. Either way, this movie is a masterpiece of suspense and character interaction.