I think the screenplay was poorly written.  The character motivation was weak, and ends were not tied up.  This is a screenplay that follows a Hollywood formula, but the choices made about why each event would happen are not credible; and one character, presented as a major one, is left out of the ending entirely.  Example that gives no spoilers:  Jack and Diane need to spend time together in order to fall in love.  They aren't people who would spend time together, so, as the formula goes, the first 10 minutes set us up for Jack to be required to stay at Diane's house long enough for their attraction to develop.  The motivation for his having to stay is so absurdly unrealistic--even by movie standards--that a second one is written into the script - equally not credible.
When I first turned off the DVD, I thought it was horrid.  But, I woke up the next morning thinking about it, about this love they felt.  It took until the next day to get beyond the plot flaws, see that their feelings remained with me, and that I felt something. I liked what I felt, though it was bittersweet.  The awakening of their love is what I felt; I know this feeling, and this film brought it back to me to the extent that I felt raw emotion.
The Keanu character is unnecessary - as much as I liked the character and liked him in this film - and, as such, the script was unable to accomodate his presence.  He was not only unnecessary, but contributed to at least one plot flaw: a woman, Diane, has her life in order, in an order she adopted, and hasn't dated men in awhile.  Suddenly, she has two men (one quite young).  This is farfetched.  
Thus, Keanu was used as a pawn, a device, to show Diane her feelings for Jack.  Of course, many other--better--devices could have been chosen.  As it is, Keanu is quite a good character - too good for the role of pawn. Therefore, he has a dichotomy that makes the whole element not work: we know enough about him to like him and be sympathetic toward him (he's written as nearly flawless in character, and a great guy too!), yet his purpose is plot-device.  
What do you do with a major character who is relegated to plot device?  This film doesn't.  It doesn't do anything with him.  I found this a problem - I liked the guy.
So, is he there because the director was uncertain of herself and put in a handsome young man?  It plays that way.  If he's there as the person he's presented to be, I'm guessing his pivotal moments are on the cutting room floor.
So, the film follows the romantic comedy progression - all the twists occur when they "should," in a Hollywood film - but the twists, devices, and motivations are very weak.
That said, the emotions opened to both Jack and Diane--who each hadn't felt them for differing reasons and time periods--work.  I believe these two characters, and I believed in them.  I loved their journeys of discovery of feeling.  Diane Keaton - beautiful.  Jack Nicholson - believable, and usually I don't care much for his all-too-similar performances.
Keanu/Julian - what did he feel? Why single? Why many things?  Too main of a character with too little going on - both too much and too little of the Julian character was given to us.  And this is a 2-hour-long movie.