The personality of a Nazi brownshirt was one of a heightened need for acceptance.  Fred Leuchter was painted as such by many people, some who knew him(and I'm guessing knew better) and as we may be witnessing others who didn't.  Brownshirts insult, assault, rather than intellectually confront and expose objections to their popular ideas.

Maybe a major lesson of the Holocaust is that the brownshirt mentality can live in any culture so long as a popular movement of idea is available for them to cling to.  So long as the need for acceptance outweighs the need for a competition of ideas.  There must be someone to hate for the brownshirt to exist, so that they may prove their allegiance to the group.  Maybe a great contribution one can give to their group is sincere dissent, as dissent does not equal disloyalty...except in a Nazi state.

There was a great free press in Germany in Nazi times, so long as that free thought was constrained within the preset boundaries.

"Mr. Death" is not representation of Fred Leuchter.  Fred Leuchter is representation of Fred Leuchter.  Might I suggest NOT suggesting a collection of articles by many of the same people in this documentary.  That's not clarification, that's reinforcement of one idea.  Rather go and find Fred and speak to him.  Get his view.  If you don't have a preformed agenda (like Van Pelt or Morris), you may get him to respond like I did.  I found a different Fred(and a much much different story) than I was given by director Morris and others.

The question is not whether German gas chambers were used to murder people, the question is whether someone will be allowed to think contrary to that, or any other idea.  That is, without having his house firebombed, a concerted effort to ruin him financially take place, have his reputation ruined, or any of the other stuff happen.  If Fred's ordeal is any indication, the brownshirts are alive and well, but I don't think Fred is one of them.

The one fact I would alter in my previous post is Rabbi Bauer's support for "no gas chambers".  Bauer supported Fred's methods, not necessarily his conclusion.  I tried in vain to contact Bauer, on where he differs with Fred.  Fred has high regard for Rabbi Bauer.  The Polish forensic investigation(which came soon after Fred's!) did not come to the same conclusion as Fred, but did essentially duplicate Fred's data collection methods and results.

There was testimony at the Nuremburg trials by both inmates and German staff that homocidal gassings took place in those camps in Germany.  In 1960, physical and chemical tests showed that no gassings occured there.  It took 16 years(1976) for Simon Weisenthal to admit that no gassings took place in those German concentration camps.  A former inmate at Auschwitz has said that no homocidal gassings took place there.  But all this isn't to say that the Auschwitz gassings didn't occur, but rather to simply say that some may think they didn't occur and for that they shouldn't be condemned...unless the idea is to create an enemy out of sincere people like Fred.