Please read after you have seen the movie!  I have to watch this movie every year.  I also have the soundtrack which puts me into the plot and subplots again.  This is an outstanding movie, very thought provoking. Big plusses for the movie include the scenery coinciding with the score by Jerry Goldsmith (Aliens, Gremlins, Hoosiers, Air Force One, The Ghost and the Darkness), and there is the entire cast, and Hopkins and Baldwin, the Mamet script, and the directing adding to the quality.  The story alone keeps your focus throughout the movie.  There is physical danger with the freezing weather, the bear, no food, no transportation, no communication for rescue, no shelter, no weapons, no map, no real compass, plus their own panic and sense of shame, and add to all those problems the intrigue of each character's motive. These men would have not interacted this way had there been a woman around.  It is about the relationship among the men in a supercharged situation. The action scenes are realistic, especially the plane crash, and the scene when the bear is about to "eat" Bob and Charles.  I believe this is Alec's best acting.  And Hopkins is, well, the best as the understated, defensive, clumsy, and sometimes inept and sometimes shy Charles.
  Yes, Charles is gracious and kind, even courteous, with his last line in the movie.  But - I read somewhere that Charles's last line had another meaning.  I always thought there was something deeper, something I missed somehow.  Eventually Charles would have discovered his wife's infidelity, she would have gotten her prenup settlement, and he would have had to seek another trophy wife, or remain alone. Their deaths "saved his life" from his phony marriage and his paranoid and stiff, "jaded" life. Everyone wanted something from his wallet or to get his wife.  The lodge owner wanted some of his millions to build a resort.  Charles had even suspected the innocent jet mechanic for wanting to get a hold of "her" - Charles meaning wife, the mechanic meaning the Challenger Jet.  Bob was jealous and made fun of Charles. Bob also nearly gave him a very real heart attack with the bear skin at his birthday party. One also has to realize the raw animal grip Charles got on his core survival instincts which caused him to drive Bob backwards to fall into the deadfall.  And yet he rescues Bob because he has dropped all guards and is at heart a kindly person, longing for real love and capable of giving love.  There is sympathy for Charles because his wife was the only woman he ever wanted, and he truly loved her.  He demonstrates his love for the now pitiful Bob, who realizes he's done nothing in his life that leaves any legacy.
With this ordeal Charles has done something in his life that was "unequivocal" - his lifelong want.  He has become a better man, who "may not return" to his prior life, determined to change his life, having been rescued by his own vast theoretical knowledge and coolness to face each deadly situation calmly and wisely.  Without any physical training or skills, he drew from his thinking and became a uniter, a placator, a fighter, hunter, and leader to become much richer than all his billions.