This film is a small, quirky character study with not much plot.  This is my favorite kind of movie, but if it's not yours, you may hate this film.
The acting here is all first rate.  Kevin Spacey's character is more subdued but less bleak than the one he played in "American Beauty."  Quoyle (Spacey) comes into adulthood a beaten-down, invisible lump, but life gives him a daughter to love, a job he becomes good at, a woman he can relate to as a friend (Julianne Moore), a family member (Judi Dench) who is encouraging to him, and a place to belong (Newfoundland).  He is not so broken that he can't appreciate all this, so his transformation from lump to human being is believable, not schmaltzy or feel-good miraculous.  I particularly enjoyed Quoyle's interior headline-writing as commentary on his life.  It added a touch of ironic humor to the film.
Julianne Moore is brilliant and very different than I've seen her before.  Here, she is strong, but sensitive and a little scared of another relationship with a man.  She and Spacey stumble believably and amusingly in getting to know each other.  Her affection for his daughter is an important element in his transformation.
Dench plays Spacey's aunt, one of the supporting characters, and does not dominate on screen as she usually does.  This is okay because this is not her story, it's Quoyle's (Spacey's).  However, the aunt is important in giving Quoyle a sense of family history and a connection to Newfoundland, where the aunt, Quoyle and his daughter go to live.
Cate Blanchett undoubtedly had fun playing Quoyle's bad girl wife and the mother of his child.  She has more range and screen presence than any actress of her generation.  Her place in this story is as a harmful influence on Quoyle and his daughter, badly twisting both of their self-images, but her impact is believable and pivotal to their (the father and daughter's) relationship.
The other supporting characters, his daughter and the men at the newspaper office where Quoyle works, are all fine.  Rhys Ifans (Hugh Grant's roommate in "Nottinghill") is warm and funny as Quoyle's buddy at the paper.
The scenery of Newfoundland very much controls the mood of the film.  It's beautiful, but scary and daunting.  So is life.  Both can be appreciated and enjoyed if you accept what is and build on that for the future.
It's a wonderful movie.  I highly recommend it.