I am 36 years old and I never saw this movie until this year..
I have to say that I thought it was FANTASTIC!! I have a 3 1/2 year old and she loved it !!
The actors did a Great job especially Lesley anne warren who in my opinion is Cinderella... no hype or overdoing it, she did the part simply and classy, taking her scenes beyond what most actresses would do Beautiful singing voice and a great dancer! Bravo to her!! Her together with the prince was a match made in heaven they look, act and sing Very well and speaking of Stuart Damon....(where do I start) He is SO HANDSOME in this movie my jaw dropped!!and he plays a great prince(He new what he was looking for in a woman and test ran all the maidens at the ball maybe he was a little harsh with the step sisters but he had an idea of who wanted him for her "prize"I thought he was very humourousin these scenes. His singing voice is Excellent(especially with his songs "loneliness of evening", "10 minutes ago" and "do I love you because your beautiful")My gosh where did they find him!!!I loved how he would look at her especially at the ball when he saw her at the top of the stairs(one will never forget that gaze along with the silence that followed as they walked to each other)and the end when he realized that this poor gal was his love and when he tried the slipper on her. The rest of the cast is great... Pat carol was quite funny as Prunella (especially the ballroom,and when the prince tried on her slipper!) she has alot of humor and with her wicked sister they make quite a pair( I thought the sisters were supposed to be Anastasia and druzella??) Unfortunately Walter pigeon and Ginger Rodgers didn't have enough "Air time" (I thought)but made a grand King and Queen. Jo van fleet's version of the wicked stepmother was very interesting and the interplay between her and Cinderella was very good. Celeste Holme was a very convincing Fairy god mother(a very silly one)
I TOTALLY recommend the classic movie to anyone.. I have the VHS version and It's GREAT!! (picture and sound)I also have ordered the cd!! Do your family and yourself a favor and buy this!!It is sooooooooo romantic... I have actually cried at some scenes.