I don't know if it's just me, but writer/director Cameron Crowe always seems to hit the mark.  Whether it be his first effort at writing a Script (Fast Times at Ridgemont High), his second directorial effort (Singles), and the absolutely fabulous Jerry Maguire and this year's sure fire Best Picture, Almost Famous.
Unlike most films, which begin with a screenplay, producer, James L. Brooks asked Cameron Crowe to write the story in prose first. The result was a 90-page novella that became the outline for the film, and from which Crowe wrote the final screenplay.
This movie stars John Cusack (who must have been about 19) as Lloyd Dobler, an eternal optimist who seeks to capture the heart of Diane Court (Ione Skye).  He surprises just about everyone-including himself-when she returns the sentiment.  But Diane's over possessive, divorced Dad (John Mahoney) doesn't approve and it's going to take more than just the power of love to conquer all.
This is my favourite movie by Cameron Crowe.  As with all his movies, the dialogue is true to life and flows.  Every aspect of this film borders on unbelievable brilliance.  John Cusack is terrific as Lloyd Dobler, the sweetest guy in the whole world.  He's one of those guys that girls would love to have, but one of those guys that guys would love to be. The situations are true to life situations teens would absolutely be put in (I love watching Lloyd make his first phone call to Diane -- it reminded me of me) Ione Skye is also great as the object of Lloyd's affection torn between her love for her father and her love for Lloyd.
Besides being Cameron Crowe's best film, this movie also sports the greatest love scene of all time (I won't ruin it for those who haven't seen it), and can give inspiration to any guy who has ever wanted a girl as much as Lloyd.  Guaranteed though, after seeing this particular scene, be prepared to fall in love with Peter Gabriel's Song "In Your Eyes".
If you haven't read through all of this (if you got bored, I don't blame you), just read this last paragraph.  This is a terrific movie.  One that you can watch over and over again without getting tired of it.  If you haven't seen it, you are indeed missing out.  Roger Ebert declared it one of the best films of the year in 1989.
 - "We just don't want to see you get hurt"  "I wanna get hurt"