(This is not a review, but rather a critique.)

NGL is better acted than most Christian films--the leads did a credible job. And the story line of this little film had considerable potential: broken marriage, abandonment--a tragic backstory; reunion ten years later; the wife, now a christian, and husband deal with the challenge of being unequally yoked. However, there are two major problems which strike at the core of this film: Christian marriage/divorce and the gospel. I'll address each in turn:

Christian marriage/divorce: God does not honor divorce. In his eyes the divorced husband and wife are still married. SPOILER ALERT: It doesn't matter if the husband signed the divorce papers. The counseling pastor should know that God's laws trump man's laws. If the protagonist had "legally" divorced his wife, he could "legally" remarry her, if she has not been defiled (Deut 24:4). So, this is a completely artificial plot element. Further, in this case, where the wife is a christian and finds herself still married to a non-believing man, a Christian counselor should advise what Paul teaches in (1 Cor. 7:13,14) "that the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife...: else were your children unclean, but now are they holy." The 10-year-old son will also benefit.

The gospel: There was a lot of hemming and hawing, but no clear presentation of the gospel. Going to church, and attending Bible studies--these are the proper venues for equipping believers, not for evangelizing the lost. That's the job of each and every believer, to be ready to give an account to any man that asks a reason of the hope that is him with meakness and fear. (1 Peter 3:15). The following were conspicuously absent: Nothing about sin or the consequences of sin (Rom 3:23, Rom 6:23a); nothing about Christ's atonement for sin (Rom 5:8ff) (this would have explained the significance of the title "NO GREATER LOVE"); nothing about what one must do to be saved (Act 16:30,31); and nothing about God's unspeakable gift (Rom 6:23b).

Who was this movie intended for: The believe or non-believer? So many missed opportunities. Some better writing could have integrated the gospel (or gospel elements) into the story line.