"Gattaca"  is an example of the essence of science fiction.  Science fiction is about science and technology and how it's advances can affect our lives.  What if genetic mapping progresses to the point where a single drop of blood can tell someone your strengths and weaknesses.  Your genome is used to identify you, define your future and establish your place in society.

Vincent (Ethan Hawke) was conceived in love by his parents.  He grows up wanting to be an astronaut.  But he won't be given the opportunity.  In his world, most children are optimized by geneticists at conception.  They are the best possible child their parents can have.  But Vincent is made the old- fashioned way.  Before he leaves the delivery room it is determined he has poor vision, a bad heart and a 99% probability of dying around age 30.

His parents correct their `mistake' and have a second optimized son two years later.  Unable to deal with their pity and frustrated in his ambition, he runs away.

He finds out there is a man (Tony Shaloub) who helps people like him.  In return for a deposit and a percentage of his income.  He takes the identity of Jerome (Jude Law), a foreign national of super intelligence and physical capabilities.  But Jerome is crippled.

This two form an unlikely team.  `Jerome' becomes `Eugene'.  Eugene keeps Jerome/Vincent supplied with urine and blood samples.  The new Jerome has spent years home schooling himself.  He interviews at the private space firm Gattaca and is immediately hired as a navigator.

The two continue their elaborate ruse for five years.  Jerome performs flawlessly and is chosen for an important space mission.  Unfortunately his life is complicated by two things, his new love (Uma Thurman) and a murder at Gattaca.  Either factor can expose him on the eve of his success.

`Gattaca' is about the significance of the human will and faith.  Anton/Jerome has been told he will never be anything.  Yet he finds a way to achieve the dream he has been unfairly denied.

The film tells this story with a great script and superior performances with few special effects.