This is one of favorite movies--The characters, the story, the feel--it all works.  The accents do take a little getting used to, so this is a good movie to watch on tape so you can back it up when needed.
There are three points in particular about this movie that I want to stress.  First, this was an accurate picture of drug addiction.  I usually avoid movies about drugs, because most of them either feature characters out of Reefer Maddness (if you don't know what I mean by that, you still wouldn't know what I meant if I explained it) or the film goes to the other extreme: Complete self actualization with a couple hits of dope.  Sure.  I was a public defender, and have represented over a thousand drug addicts.  With very few exceptions, the bottom line for addiction--particularly heroin--was that it made the addict feel good...better than good.  Renton's voiceover at the beginning of the movie, describing why he didn't need to "choose life" because he had heroin gives the movie its theme.  Later in the film, when the houshold discovers the baby has died from neglect--the response to quickly shoot up, because the pain is unbearable.
The point is people use heroin, because it is good.  However, the collateral costs of heroin far outweigh any benefits: Renton struggles to leave it behind, while Spud and Tommy -- especially Tommy -- are destroyed.  The only other moive I can think of that got the drug scene right is Gus Van Sant's "Drugstore Cowboy."
Second, it doesn't make any doughnuts (as they say where I come from) how "accurate" a movie portrayal is, if the movie doesn't work.  This movie works because the characters fill their sterotypes perfectly.  Renton, the main character, with a conscience that troubles him about sleeping with a high school girl--but doesn't for a moment bother him when he steals a sex tape from Tommy.  His can hardly stand his three best friends.  Begbie-who's scornful about the others use of drugs, while he drinks heavily and is dangerous, psychotic, lunatic.  SicBoy, obsessed with Sean Connery and unable to think of anyone outside himself.  And Spud--who is virtually a blank, passively drifting through what's left of his life.
This film is very funny--with a dark humour.  The shooting gallery (and I don't mean guns) where they buy their drugs is run by a man named "Mother Superior"--because of the length of his habit.  Renton is determined to kick heroin, and nails boards over his door--only to tear them out again.  Finally, at one point when the four of them (minus Tommy) are in London to sell heroin, there is one quick shot of them in a zebra crossing, recreating the Beatles "Abbey Road" LP.
The book is excellent, and the movie is reasonably faithful to the story--almost.  The book fleshes out the actions and characters more, the movie has sharper dialogue...
My last point is why I knocked one star off.  This movie had to have been made for american audiences, who unless they get a happy ending (or the thrill of yelling "USA! USA! USA!" while a team of NBA all stars clobbers five Anglolans by sixty points).  I don't want to give away the whole movie, but Renton does something for Spud that was just ridiculous.  I was furious.  Thank goodness I wasn't watching the film in the theater....because I'd probably have been kicked out.  Again.
All that said--this is a great movie.  A little hard to watch (especially the dead baby), but will really give you a good picture of hopelessness.