Scream and Scream Again is a rather astounding assemblage of film and sound clips that are fantastic to the trained eye and a bewildering mess to someone expecting a movie of the horror genre.  As a film, it's much less than the sum of its parts.  I'll avoid addressing the film as the other reviews give it proper treatment and stick to discussing scenes and sound production.

Record collectors and music historians are in for a complete treat.  The soundtrack is done by none other than Shel Talmy and its fantastic!  Everything he learned making the best music ever recorded by The Who, The Kinks, The Creation and a pubescent David Bowie are brought to bear in this production.  Freakbeat fans are in for a real treat with two nightclub numbers by Amen Corner along with dancing crowds dressed in Carnaby Street's finest fashions c. 1968-69.  The music is only occasionally in-sync with the plot line and does little to help the story.

Set designers will drool over the above nightclub scenes and many long-panning sequences of swinging London and the English countryside c. 1969 with racing Jaguars, MG's and Bentleys.  The purple poofy shirt of the nightclub vampire killer is all you need to start your own mod-psych-pop band.  Lee, Cushing and the English cast get to stroll around in fantastic wardrobe.  Lee is surprisingly strong and believable as a government heavy even though he's barely got two pages of dialog in the film.  Surprisingly, nobody on this thread has mentioned the ~30 second uncredited cameo of Boris Karloff as a forensic pathologist for the government trying to dissect the vampire's hand.  A rare easter egg as the role is appropriately played purely for humor.  Many of the other sets are elaborate, shot at strange angles, use funky lighting and provide better things to look at than attempting to follow the weak plot.  It's even stranger that many of the actors provide excellent work for such an atrocious script.  I'll assume most of them read the book beforehand and had definite opinions on how they wanted to play their respective role.  Naturally, the film decides to focus on the least interesting actors in this piece.  It's easy to see how this film was influenced by The Prisoner and in turn influenced Cronenberg in Videodrome.