Everyone has had one of those days where it is so nice outside, they don't want to waste the day. The same is true for a high school student named Ferris Bueller. He goes through extraordinary lengths to miss a day by faking sick. Ferris is smarter than the average kid when it comes to faking sick- he has a plan. He lists exactly what you need to do in order to successfully fake sick, without scaring your parents and making them take you to the doctor, from having clammy hands to stomach pains. His parents believe his story, but his sister doesn't buy it for a minute. The whole family eventually leaves Ferris at home by himself, while they go to school and work. This leaves him to enjoy his day.

 Ferris calls his best friend Cameron and tells him to come over so they can go do something, but the friend says he is really sick. Eventually, though, Ferris convinces Cameron to pick him up. The next problem is getting their friend Sloane to get out of school, too. They devise a plan to tell the school that Sloane's grandmother has just died and that her father, who is really played by Cameron, will pick her up from school. At first the principal doesn't believe the story at all, because he found it strange that the three friends would miss school on the same day, and assumed it was Ferris calling her out. Ferris, being the smart kid he is, decided to call into the school and ask for his homework to be sent home with his sister. The principal apologizes for not believing Sloane's father, and makes sure she leaves school safely. For the rest of the day the three go around town, making the most of their day off of school, but run into several mishaps along the way.

 The only thing that bothered me in the movie was that the actors seemed to be too old for their roles, but that tends to be like that in most movies and television shows. Even still, these actors did a phenomenal job in their roles. They acted like real friends, which helps the audience get into the story better. Their friendship is a typical high school friendship, where there are two friends that go out, and the third friend kind of tags along with them out of habit.

 This is an excellent movie, and I would recommend it to anyone who has ever been in school, because they know the feeling of not wanting to be in class on a nice day. This movie is also really typical of high school friendships and getting into trouble. It seems that many high school friends that hang out a lot get into trouble together. These three friends have totally different personalities, which makes it easy for everyone to relate to at least one of them. Ferris is a goof-off who gets into trouble a lot. Cameron is a shy, more reserved character who is scared to get into trouble. Sloane is the flirty, younger girl who goes for the older guys.