After the first three scripts (this, Reservoir dogs, and Pulp Fiction) Tarantino is sometimes entertaining, always clever, duff, but this film is high art.

Some people say that "True Romance" takes a while to warm up, but I prefer the beginning. After it arrives in Hollywood and becomes an action film, it is still excellent, but in inception it is perfection.

"True Romance," refers I believe, like "Pulp Fiction," to a genre of novels that cater to the dreams of the unfulfilled. And this film shows use the sort of dream that might-satisfy. But, the tragic beauty of "True Romance" is that, unlike the genre it parodies, it is self-aware. Wow.

The emphasis is on dream. Despite what big-richard-critic below says, super-nerds know, that there is no fullfilment in this world. Like J. Alfred Purfrock, they have been through it all in their heads.

The opening soundtrack by Zimmer, complete with whistling wind, sirens, and a background of Detroit down-and-outs, hangs in my mind as theme for this movie: unfulfillable hope.

The music, and this film, crystalise the unearthly hope of those out in the cold, comic-book (or video rental) shop of despair. It nerds like this that show us the way things might have been. Think Wuthering Height's Emily Bronte, who never got to know anyone, let alone a guy, outside her immediate family circle. Tarantino was on acid, strung-out, speaking in tongues. He must have been delisciously insane. That lone super-nerd dreamt up paradise and then some, in spades.

Other reviewers have noted the fourtuitousness with which Clarence finds a girl that likes comic books and Kung Fu movies, but does she? She is a call girl that is paid to be there. All the same, even in the face of that -- the scene on the roof does it for me -- they hold on to the dream.

(Admitedly there are no women in this film. The only woman is the Super-nerd's anima. )

The rest of the movie is a collection of dream sequences, all driven by a refrain of "wouldn't it be really cool if.." the males could incarnate machismo, 'sell the contradiction'. And the scenes are very, very cool.

"True Romance" is full of monologues. The characters, walking through dreams on their own, rarely really interact. But the monologues by Hopper, Walkren, and Gandolfini rank with Shakespeare.

Even Christian Slater's phone call, "If you want my movie, Lee, you're just gonna have to come to terms with your Fear and Desire," or the hard boiled cop duo Nickolson and Dime's monologue a deux -- "somthing's rotten in Denmark," -- are redefining cool all the way.

But, just as Cathy and Heathcliff's fantasy on the moor -- they are prince and princess -- is just that, Clarence and Alabama's  fantastic journey from Detroit to Hollywood never touches down. People complain about the unreality of this film, but "True Romance" is meant to be that way, at least until what should have been the end.

I think that Tony Scott did a good job (even outdoing his brother's genuius) but I wish that he had stayed with the original script's ending. At the same time, I think we know how the film should have ended.

I have been reading the other reviews. I agree with those that say that it is *one of the best movies ever made*.

 El Satanico says:
"When people say that stories like Romeo and Juliet, Gone With the Wind and Sleepless in Seattle are the greatest love stories ever told then those people obviously havent seen TRUE ROMANCE yet."

not telling says:
" I don't remember hearing much press about it when it was released, but I rented it when it first hit the shelves and I was absolutely BLOWN AWAY. This is such a great movie."

kubrik2899 says
"Quentin Tarantio struck all the right notes when he wrote this fantastic motion picture, which, in my opinion, is the greatest motion picture of all time."

There are lots more, please read the reviews.

People who do not like the truth will not like this movie. This movie shows us what we want, and that it is unatainable. But at the same time, this movie tells shows us that the dream is bigger and more powerful than the truth. The truth is a lie. This IS true romance.

"So, what say we throw caution to the wind and let the chips fall where they may."