What a fantastic beginning: A chase scene over the San Francisco rooftops; a patrolman and Detective John "Scottie" Ferguson (Jimmy Stewart) chase a miscreant, with terrible consequences. What a terrible time to find out you have acrophobia. [And, as they mention in the Commentary track, no one quite knows how Scottie got out of his hanging predicament. Hitch didn't worry about that.]

Then the tone completely changes. Scottie is at the studio of good friend, Midge. He's quit the police force during his recovery, and as a "man of independent means", he is taking some time off. He tells Midge that a college acquaintance, Gavin Elster, has popped up after all these years, and asked him to visit.

What Scottie finds out is that Elster wants him to follow his wife, Madeline. Elster asks, "Scottie, do you believe that someone out of the past, someone dead, can enter and take possession of a living being?"

Scottie reluctantly takes the case. Next we see him at a restaurant bar. He's there to see (but not meet) Elster's wife, so he knows who he should follow. Elster and Madeline are at a far table, and then follows one of the most spectacular character introductions ever. The camera slowly and lovingly lets us see the woman dining with Elster. They finish, get up to leave, and pass Elster on the way out of the restaurant. Madeline is stunning, to say the least.

But is she possessed by the spirit of her great-grandmother, Carlotta Valdes? Carlotta died by her own hand in 1857, at the age of 26, the same age Madeline is now. The events of the first two days that Scottie tails her leave him confused and half-believing. And falling in love.

This is a movie about obsession. And what's surprising, is that it's usually-good-guy Jimmy Stewart who plays the obsessed. It has a slightly off-kilter uncomfortable feeling and the fantastic score, by Bernard Hermann, certainly helps with the unsettling feeling you get while watching the story unfold.

This isn't my very favorite Hitchcock movie, but I am definitely a fan. It is a little long in the set-up, and a little melodramatic here and there. But it's a great story. And, of course, full of Hitchcock hallmarks. Such as when Scottie and Madeline have their first kiss at the ocean shore. Just as their lips clinch, a huge wave crashes against the rocks behind them. Such timing - remember the fireworks in "To Catch a Thief"?

This is the "Vertigo" Collector's Edition
<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0783226055">Vertigo (Collector's Edition)</a>,
and it has been lovingly restored, both in sound and picture. There's still some odd colors, such as when Scottie puts the dripping-wet Madeline in his car, and her eyebrows are gray. But part of that may be due to filters, too. In the Commentary track, they talk about how scenes would cut from using a fog filter to not using a fog filter, the idea being to make a subtle difference between what is real and what is unreal.

Extras on the Collector's Edition:
1. "Obsessed with Vertigo: New Life for Hitchcock's Masterpiece". This is a 35 minute production by AMC. It is both a story about the restoration and a "making-off" featurette. Commenters include: Robert A. Harris (restorer), James C. Katz (restoration producer), Roddy McDowell (narrates), Martin Scorsese (director of fame), Pat Hitchcock (Alfred Hitchcock's daughter), Herbert Coleman (Hitchcock's longtime Associate Producer), Samuel Taylor (screenwriter for "Vertigo"), C.O. "Doc" Erickson (production manager), Peggy Robertson (script supervisor), Kim Novak (plays Madeline/Judy), Barbara Bel Geddes (plays Midge), June Van Dyke (for the Edith Head Collection) and Henry Bumstead (art director).
It's hard to believe, as "Vertigo", 1958, is such an admired film, but Harris says, "When we first opened the cans on 'Vertigo', basically what we found was a faded negative. Virtually, it looked in many scenes as if the negative had been dragged on the floor before it had been printed." Different colors had shrunk at different rates. As they tried to run through the film stuff would literally fall off the negative.
There's interesting stuff showing how Hitchcock worked. Peggy Robertson says, "Hitch was the only director I've ever known who didn't look through the camera. He didn't even stand close to the camera."
And Kim Novak, who gives an astounding performance (and I can only say, she stands out among the beautiful blondes of the period as the brainy blonde), says, "I was able to use so much of me in that movie. And working with Alfred Hitchcock, I adored working with him."
2. Feature Commentary. Commenters are Herbert "Herbie" Coleman (associate producer on "Vertigo" and other Hitchcock films), Robert A. Harris (restorer), James C. Katz (restoration producer), Samuel Taylor (o-screenplay writer) and Steven Smith (author).
During the scene where Scottie and Elster are at Elster's club, Harris alerts you to the disappearing ice cubes, "Actually, we could digitally replace them, but that wouldn't be true to the film". And Katz adds, "It would only cost about as much as the entire restoration." [Probably true at the time of the restoration, 1998, but maybe not now.]
During the scene in Scottie's apartment, where Madeline is sleeping in the bedroom and her wet clothes are hanging in the kitchen, Katz says, "We found in the notes that the Legion of Decency said they did not want any recognizable female undergarments hanging on the line. So even though we know that he's pulled her out of the Bay, taken her back to his apartment, taken her clothes off and put her in his bed, the audience isn't supposed to really get that. So there's no clothes hanging on the line." I looked a little closer and, I'll be, there isn't! Because on just watching the movie ordinarily, I "know" there's stockings hanging in the kitchen. I think the brain fills in what it expects!
3. Production Notes
4. Cast & Filmmakers
5. Theatrical Trailers

Recommended classic, and have fun watching it a second time with the Commentary track!