With that phrase, Mandy defines both Bluto and herself. In doing so she also defines the range of the movie. Immediately afterward, John "Bluto" Belushi smacks his over stuffed cheeks and sprays mashed potatos on his critics.  "I'm a zit.  Get it?"  This is followed by the classic food fight.
With such humor, how can one go wrong?  This appeals to the teenaged boy in everyone.
I first saw this film in a theater when newly released.  It had little publicity and I was one of only 10-12 people.  However, the story was so engaging and the 60s atmosphere (when I went to college) accurate enough that I brought a friend back the next week.  That time the theater was full.  Word-of-mouth had filled the place.  This is rare.  Usually a film arrives with ballyhoo and packed seats and slides down-hill from there.  Animal House only picked up steam as more people realized how much fun it was.
It's humor has permeated our culture.  Toga parties and road trips may not have been everyone's experience in the 60s but by the 80s Animal House alone had made them familiar to all.  In doing so it made John Belushi a star. There are plenty of familiar faces in this movie.  It's other stars did not  all rise to the level of Belushi, but you saw them for years and would say "that's Otter!" without having a clue who the actor was.  Many of the people in this film became type-cast.  For John Belushi it was a bonanza.  For the  others it may have been a disaser.  Who wants to  spend a career as "Flounder" or "Pinto"?  Yet that's pretty much what happened.
The film is not brilliant cinema.  It's not deep.  It's just fun. It unleashes the little  gremlins in all of us,  that little part of the psyche which says "what I would REALLY like to do is..."
My favorite scene is when the balladeer is strumming his  guitar on the stairs of the Delta House and singing to two adoring girls "I gave my love a cherry".  Bluto grabs the guitar and smashes it.  How often have you wished to do that?  (What?  Never?  Then go back to Steel Magnolias and never mind.........)
This may have been National Lampoon's first foray into film and they were  wise enough to get young John Landis to make it.  Fresh from Kentucky Fried Movie, Landis  would peak (in my opinion) with Blues Brothers the following year. His other films have been a gradual descent from these early heights.
The  film also benefits from the writing of Doug Kenney and Harold Ramis.  Kenney died a few years later, shortly after helping Ramis write Caddy Shack, but Ramis became famous after writing and appearing in Ghostbusters as Egon Spengler.  His comedy writing talents helped create Stripes, Back To School, Groundhog  Day, Analyze This, and Bedazzled.
The "free love" and mayhem of Animal House may seem anachronistic in the 21st century but it is a valuable window into that generation of film makers, as well as the prior generation whom they portray.  The story is set in the 60s and is laced with the music and lifestyles of the time.  It is a reversal of the typical Hollywood "morality play" for the bad guys do get their just desserts, but the heros are, by current standards, degenerates, while the villians would  currently be considered upright citizens conforming to a 50s standard which was fading at the time of the story, but which (in some regards) has now made a resurgence in the form of rampant political correctness today.
Animal House is the antithesis  of political correctness.  If you've never seen it, it's a world expanding experience.  If you grew up with it, it's  just plain fun.  See it again.