OK, in terms of direction and photography this movie is no doubt a visual feast and that it on its own deserves 2 stars *I'm sure it took a lot of effort from the producers of this film and I wouldn't want to undermine their efforts*. However, you don't always judge a book by its cover much like you don't judge a movie by it's customs and special effects. The Storyline will always be more important no matter how flamboyant the cast's clothes looked.

So, unfortunately this film's writers weren't as expensive as Julia Robert's wardrobe for this film. The idea behind Mirror Mirror is that it's meant to be a parody or a comical retelling of the Classic Snow White tale that I'm sure everyone knows from their childhood, but as the openings suggests it's supposedly from the Queen's POV not Snow White. There are 2 sides to every story right? Didn't Happen! It won't be long before anyone recognizes that the story is in favor of Snow White even though she's not supposed to be the main character. The Evil stepmother is still evil, Snow White is still beautiful and the Prince still falls in love with her. The Only twist is that Snow White doesn't end up eating the apple which makes me question the directors choice? What was the point of that apple scene anyways? To ensure that the Oh so evil Marie Antoinette version of this fairytale the step mother dies? Come On! She could've met her ultimate and tragic fate in a different way or to keep things lighter she could've just vanished once and for all.

There isn't much dialogue going on and frankly it's all flat and boring. The Characters are all two dimensional at best except for the Evil step mother but even that didn't save the movie from being lame. The Bollywood ending is also very stupid? To sum it all up, this is movie is for stupid people I don't mean that the people who liked this movie are stupid just that the characters are stupid! I know it's meant to be funny but when was funny equivalent for stupid? And the Macho, Noble Prince wasn't even Macho he was more like a toy actually. They even got the characterization wrong in a bad way.

I know, this is meant to be a kid's movie and I shouldn't take it seriously but even for a PG film this was lame. I can think of Way better films out of the top of my head. With the Economy drifting and expenses rising wouldn't you want to watch something worthwhile? Something entertaining and unique at the same time? To compensate for your money?
Instead of a unoriginal, unfunny retelling of a classic fairy tale that you'll forget about after 2 minutes from the rolling credits?

I think this film would've been more interesting if they made Snow White the evil one and the Step Mother the good one just to shake things up. I mean it is meant to be from her perspective anyways and a wittier dialogue would've been awesome too.