This is one of the best CIA thrillers I've seen since the Bourne series. Let's be honest though: it's very hard to "step-one-up" on the Bourne trilogy. But I will say this is a thriller that will LOCK YOU entirely in as soon as you press play. If you have absolutely nothing to do on a Friday night, you won't regret watching this movie.

I didn't expect Reynolds to pull this movie off very well, but I must say, I was impressed. Denzel Washington, of course, makes every movie he's in just THAT good.

Reynolds (Matt Weston) portrays a character that we can ALL relate to: someone who wants to be great and do amazing things while standing out from the rest of the pack in an innocent way. We want to be noticed and given a chance at success, opportunity, and even love. Then when someone like Denzel (Frost) enters the picture and the world begins to spin out of control, we resemble Weston easily: confused, torn between decisions, haunted by a unknown future, and nonetheless scared to take a risk. It wasn't until Weston decided to take a risk that he began to embark on a journey that would leave a fundamental imprint around him.

The agent-prisoner relationship between Weston and Frost was interesting in itself. Both men were at distinct odds but both knew they needed each other to survive. There is no doubt you see a determined Weston attempting to retain the title of "Justice and Innocence" while trying to resist Frost's profound reasoning and overwhelming logic of government corruption. In a similar manner, that's us as well. When we start making our own decisions and taking responsibility for what we do, we began to face crossroad after crossroad. Which path becomes the right path?

I thought the ending was a bittersweet ending. Nothing was going to stop Weston from turning Frost in to the CIA, but you can also see he struggles with the idea as well. Again, yet another tough crossroad but Weston was eventually spared that decision.

All in all, this movie is well worth it. I was thoroughly entertained and it's one of those movies I wouldn't mind watching again (which says a lot if I want to see it more than once).