Really good satire should be both funny and destructive, like Voltaire or Swift or Mark Twain at his darkest. Wag the Dog scores on both counts.
The film is on traget in its depiction of Americans as sentimental and gullible dupes who will fall for flag-waving flim-flam and who can be gulled by media hype. The President, a week or so away from re-election, is caught dallying with a 12 year old Firefly Girl in the Oval Office and seems doomed. Enter Robert di Niro as a master crisis manager. He enlists an egomaniacal Hollywood producer (smarmily played by Dustin Hoffman) and an an anxiety-ridden Presidential aide (Ann Heche) in a plot to concoct a phony war with Albania that will draw attention from the scandal.
The superb set pieces include the filming of a war-torn orphan girl (Kirsten Dunst in a cameo) fleeing a burning village--all done in a studio, with special effects. The sequence makes you wonder about so many other exclusive bits of news film and also shows the cynicism and manipulation of the media. My very favorite bit involves the writing of a stirring patriotic song by a gin-soaked country star (Willy Nelson). He comes up with some delicious claptrap about guarding the Canadian border (against invading Albanians!!) and then records it with a huge chorus replete with heart-rending solos. The result is a dead-on, riotous send-up of Michael Jackson's "We Are the World." There's also a terrific scene where Di Niro's character cons a straight-arrow CIA agent (William Macy) out of turning him in.
When the CIA announces that there is no Albanian threat, the scam artists switch gears and concoct a "war hero" missing behind enemy lines. They pick a soldier named Shoemaker and begin a fad by tossing old shoes over telephone wires (soon everyone is doing this--a glorious attack on the idiotic festooning of yellow ribbons whenever an American is missing somewhere). When they attempt to bring "Old Shoe" (Woody Harrelson) back for a hero's welcome, he turns out to be a psychotic rapist. A plane crash and an infuriated father's shotgun blast later, Old Shoe is dead, and Di Niro and company stage a funeral with a stirring Green Beret type song and a grieving dog. When Hoffman's character refuses to hush up his brilliant producing job, he meets a dark fate.
The writing is savage and all too true, and the acting is excellent. I held back a star for the pacing, which seems to me all wrong. A satire like this should crackle and move at a breakneck pace (like Kubrick's Doctor Strangelove), but the film ambles in a style that seems right for a sentimental drama. Still, I laugh and cringe every time I see it.