Sweet Home Alabama starring Reese Witherspoon as Melanie Carmichael and Josh Lucas as Jake Perry was the romantic comedy of 2002.  Andy Tennet did a great job directing this film, adding plenty of cold hearted scenes for all of the characters and the follow up scenes to make you love them for it.  The film is about that first love.  The first love is a person's greatest love and this movie proves that.  As we all grow up and sometimes apart, we yearn for the good old days when what we thought was terrible is what we wind up searching for our whole lives.
Melanie and Jake met in a small simple town in Alabama when they were ten years old.  They had there first kiss with each other and every other experience for that matter.  When the two were a couple in high school, Melanie became pregnant.  As most small town people do, they got married.  Melanie and Jake wound up losing the baby to unforeseen circumstances, as Melanie would go onto dealing with the event one way, Jake would go the other.  Unable to deal with all of her emotions Melanie ran.  She changed her last name, moved to New York, and became a fashion designer.  She was determined to leave that life behind and start a brand new one.  After several years passed Melanie became very successful and would find another great love, Andrew.  Andrew unexpectedly pops the question to Melanie, she reluctantly accepts.  She is now having to face her past in order to get officially divorced and move on.
Melanie flows back into the small hick town of Alabama, her feelings are mixed as she is driving through town, memories are flooding.  The onset of Jake and Melanie meeting is rough, the two fight and Melanie goes to jail.  This all puts Melanie back into her old life.  Melanie and Jake have a long past, it was not one that Melanie could pretend never happened.  Melanie had successfully run, but she hadn't dealt.  Her feelings were Jake kept getting stronger the longer she stayed.  She realized that she had gotten her life to a point where she could be proud herself.  Her relationship with Andrew was great they had truly loved each other, however she could never again love someone as much as she had loved Jake.  She decides to go back to Jake and marry the only man she has truly loved.
This movie is a great feel good movie, but hardly believable.  These types of situations don't happen in these times.  There are millions of fish in the sea.