This is a great movie and relies on superb acting by Michael Redgrave (Barnes Wallace) and Richard Todd (Guy Gibson). The film was based on the books The Dam Busters (1951) by Paul Brickhill and Enemy Coast Ahead (1946) by Guy Gibson. For me, it is filled with intense sadness at the loss of life but yet it is captivating. The film claims that Barnes Wallis, the inventor of the 'bouncing bomb' that was used to attack German dams, was opposed by the British Government which was not true. The bomb came out of the work of a Government Committee that looked at a number of ways of shortening the War and the Ruhr Dams and Hughes Gun were two of their startling successes although probably the former saved more Allied lives. Bursting the dams was a  feat of extraordinary scientific genius by Barnes Wallis (who was Victor's chief designer and designed the Lancaster Bomber) and courage by the RAF. There has to be a huge caveat that breaking the Dams had less effect than had been supposed although it did divert German slave labor from other tasks.
The Dam Buster's mission pays tribute to extreme bravery and skilled flying with only primitive instruments. The music by Eric Coates is a major and memorable feature of the movie. I am always brought to tears by the story of that dog. The movie is apparently being remade as of 2012 (not sure why). The original movie was made in black and white in the early fifties using the most primitive of models and limited Lancaster bombers which then still existed. It was very much Film Noir and captured the black and white era of the Second World War. Modern movie makers will not be able to recreate the feel of that era: the fear and the desperation. There are a number of books on the making of the Dam Busters and lots of published material on the other of Barnes Wallis's bombs including the 'Block Busters'. But the most important point is that 'The Dam Busters' was made for entertainment and to give some joy to austerity Britain of the early fifties. What was really important to its success was Michael Redgrave and Richard Todd. The screen play was superb with so many memorial moments. A perfect movie for those moments when you think that life is hard.