it goes without saying: the more original the novel, the higher expectations are for the movie adaptation.  douglas adams shares the rarest of company, with vonnegut being the only contemporary peer and source of inspiration that im aware of (if you know others, please recommend them!)  thankfully, hitchhikers delivers on screen, accurately capturing the feel of the book, even with the standard deviation and dilution of plot and character.  narrated excerpts from the guide, necessary for an authentic hikers experience, are brilliant in content and execution.  if i really wanted to find fault, id say that zaphods part was a bit overacted and marvins a tad underacted.  but the film is so much fun that its easy to overlook any minor shortcomings.  how often do you find a movie with above average intelligence that doesnt take itself too seriously and makes you laugh for days after its over?  also contributing greatly to my judgment of overall satisfaction and life enhancement is the fact that many lines are conveniently quotable when a) goofing off with a few friends, b) taking a shower (with or without a few friends) or c) begrudgingly dealing with the everyday frustrations and activities of an all too banal, conformist society, which elevates vacuous filth and garbage above anything of actual merit or significance.

if youre not familiar with the hitchhikers guide, id describe the movie as somewhat of a marriage between "i love huckabees" (more of the intellectual approach) and the tv series "scrubs" (more on the goofy side, as if you didnt know) with a sci-fi setting.  take note: the emphasis is on the fiction, with the science being loosely (albeit cleverly) applied, so dont take it too seriously! if you start analyzing everything as if its star trek, youll completely miss the point, only part of which is to poke fun at the  constipated nature of the sci-fi majority.  and if you like the movie, by all means read the book. its 2764.31910283387400183401448308238532722014869088173775898283 times smarter, funnier and betterer...