No boring or unnessary scenes..

..its all action & this film definatly dint dissapoint me like matrix 2 & 3. Even tho i liked those movies this one proved to come out with better sequals, i loved the first one despite the flaws in it. But this one really kept me interested & glued to the screen. I have noticed that this movie had some similarities with the RE game series, u get a couple of scenes from RE2, Nemesis & some characters from RE3 & another scene from Code Veronica. While many people have complained on how horrible this film is.. i want to say first off many flaws in other zombie/horror films..

in Dawn of the Dead (original) it doenst get quite into the action right away, but then it was an older movie.. thats probably why it was remade..

the problems in the remake of Dawn of the Dead.. you got too many stupid people in the movie which i see this in every horror film.. & the fact it doenst really stick to the plot.. to me.. there wasnt enough zombies in the mall.

problems in Night of the living dead (possibly both original & remake) you end up seeing fights between people instaed of them fighting zombies.. what is the deal with that??

..i could go on but you kinda catch my drift, people disregard this film to quickly, why?? Some RE game fans end up taking the plot too seriously & thinking 'oh i hate that, it shouldnt have been like that, lickers wernt in RE3'.. do people really know what they mean by 'BASED OFF A GAME'.. this movie is based off the game into it's own series.. rather then complaining on how characters & the storyline has been changed, it should be looked at for what its worth. I already seen the movie twice & i still cant wait for this movie to be released on DVD.. i mean unless you can make a better movie based off the RE series & put it on the big screen.. i cant see why anyone should be complaining.. all i can say is i love Resident Evil & the movies to me make a good representation of the game.. & i definatly cant wait for RE3.. (heh.. that'll take a while).

Overall I was totally shocked by this movie, RE2 is far by one of the best movies iv'e seen period. I already cant wait for this movie to go on dvd.. if u love nonstop action/violence this movie is for you..