i missed Along Came Polly in theaters, but I did want to see it. I liked writer / director John Hamburg and Ben Stiller's work on Zoolander and Meet The Parents, so it was a film I was eager to see. After seeing it on DVD, I did enjoy it. It was by no means perfect, but it had more highlights than lowlights. It's kind of Something About Mary. You again have Ben Stiller's character attracted to a sweet girl. You again have him tortured in the name of love. You again have twisted humor and a bizarre cast of supporting characters. The main difference is that it isn't quite as mean spirited as Mary

 Ben Stiller is generally in top form when he plays the everyman who goes through hell, and that's what he plays here. In fact, his character here isn't that much different than his characters in other films (if it ain't broke, don't fix it, I suppose). The main twist is that his character is a risk analyst who obsessively worries about hazards, germs, etc. It makes him a little more neurotic and a bit more fun. And what's funny is that all the statistics he points out about getting hit by a car, germs in bar nuts, and falling through subway grating are probably true and legitimate concerns, but we all tend to ignore them anyway. It's like his being worried about something makes him more prone to be afflicted by it.

 As for Jennifer Aniston, she's pretty good as Polly. She's cute, appropriately scatter brained, and good at inadvertently putting Reuben in awkward situations. However, she doesn't really do anything noteworthy in the film and I think her role could have been played by a lot of different actresses. The supporting characters are a lot more memorable. Philip Seymour Hoffman seems to be channeling Jack Black in his role as Sandy Lyle physical comedy is a large part of his performance. The fact that he's a washed up child star is a funny touch. And the fact that he's in a Hell's Kitchen Community Theater performance of Jesus Christ Superstar makes him all the more pathetic and amusing. Hank Azaria also has a fun cameo as Claude, the French scuba diving instructor that steals Reuben's wife. The accent, the outfit (or lack thereof), and the strange stories make him an amusing addition to the cast. Debra Messing and Alec Baldwin also have brief but fun roles.

 One of the funny things about Along Came Polly is the fact that it makes light of awkward moments that we've all been in

 As already mentioned, Along Came Polly starts out fun with a lot of unique situations and big laughs. It tends to fizzle towards the end and becomes formulaic, but overall it's a fun movie worth checking out if you haven't seen it. I think there are laughs here for everyone.