**Contains Spoilers **

The very first installment I saw from the graphic series "Masters of Horror" was John Carpenter's "Cigarette Burns". The story bears a close resemblence to his earlier work "<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/078062856X">In the Mouth of Madness</a>". A young troubled theatre owner, Kirby Sweetman (Norman Reedus) is summoned by a shady and very rich collector (Udo Kier) to find a mythical film titled "Le Fin Absolue du Monde". According to legend, upon this films very first screening, it caused massive chaos and bloodshed as the theatre patrons went mad and ended up killing each other. The film was supposedly destroyed and everyone involved with the film have since died. Interesting idea. However, there is more. The shady art collector leads our protagonist into a room where a rather peculiar being is chained up. "It" is tall, pasty and appears to have had wings as is evidenced by the scar tissues on it's back. An angel perhaps? This mysterious being informs them that it is connected to this film like "soul to flesh" and if it had been destroyed, it would have known about it. So with this confirmation of the films existance and a very fat paycheck if the film is found, our troubled protagonist sets off to find "Le Fin Absolue du Monde" and the closer he comes to locating it, trouble and murder ensue.

"Cigarette Burns" is, in my opinion, one of the best entries in the entire series. The film offers a lot of suspense and mixes this in with some gruesome gore sequences, especially during the film's climax. I also liked the film's premise and the questions it compels us to ask. Why is this film cursed? What causes the viewer to go mad? Why is everyone terrified of this film? The reasons are slightly addressed and that pale, withdrawn and nonetheless compelling entity chained up within the walls of the collectors opulant mansion holds the answer. Also when some very brief glimpses of the film are displayed, they are so non-sensical and disturbing that you are left wanting to see more of it but Carpenter was smart in giving us only a slight glimpse of the mayhem that is "Le Fin absolue du Monde".

Although Carpenter has tackled this subject matter before, he toned the fantasy element down quite a bit for this entry unlike his even more surrealistic "In the Mouth of Madness" however the fantasy is still there as is the gore. My only complaint lies with one of the performances. The film would have benefitted had a better leading man been cast. Norman Reedus' performance is bland and non convincing. The only time we see some real emotions are during the last few scenes when hell had clearly broken loose but by that time, it is too little too late. Despite this, "Cigarette Burns" remains the most consistantly chilling film of the MOH series. The episodes which followed may be gorier, more outlandish, but only a few were able to achieve what this one did in one short hour and that is deliver a solid story with intriguing elements, interesting characters, well done gore effects, a good pace and offer a satisfying conclusion. Recommended.