I love horror movies, and have a soft spot for low budget horror films made during the late 70s and into the 80s.  Lucio Fulci was one of the masters of the low-budget, fast-make gore films.  I had never seen this one before, but I had seen Zombie 2, his unofficial sequel to George Romero's Night of the Living Dead, so I kind of new what to expect.  I was not disappointed.  
Lots of atmosphere, lots of blood and gore, and a story that was downright eerie.  The music had a haunting, melancholy flavor that was very appropriate for the story line.  The players, including the two principal children costars, were more than adequate. Of course you're going to see weak plot points (for instance, where'd all the blood go when the baby sitter was decapitated and just moments later two principal characters walk onto the scene, and it's a dry and dusty floor; in reality, they'd be slipping and sliding like a panicked cat on ice), but then again, you can get the same kind of weak plot points in a John Carpenter film, and I don't seem to mind them either.  You just expect it to happen in this kind of movie.  Look past the weaknesses, and what you've got in "House by the Cemetery" is almost a homage to the great Hammer Films of the 60s and 70s.  You've got a gothic ghost story, with a Ghoul that feeds on warm living flesh to stay alive, like a vampire.  The scene in the basement, when we see where the "good Doctor Freudstein" does his butchering with dirty surgical tools on a steel table top, made me think of the recent remake of "House On Haunted Hill"; some tricks of the trade never change.  
Surprisingly, for such a low cost DVD, it was presented wonderfully, in Wide Screen format, with restored sound and music.  It includes a short Bio on Fulci, and nice scene access, should you decide you want to see some finely done vivisectioning over and over again.
If you like horror and you like gore to the extent you find yourself leaping up and laughing at the over-the-top-splatter, then you'll love this film.  Great Buy.