I really LOVED this movie!  But must admit this it is definitely not for everyone.
Let me start with why I LOVED this movie.  The production designs & costumes were absolutely breathtaking.  Especially during the first half of the movie, which took place at the Tallis' estate in Surrey.  The wallpaper in Briony's room being on such a large scale and the way the little toy animals & such were placed in such an exact fashion, toward Briony gives the viewer an instant insight into her world of complete control.  Right off there are subtle clues to all the main characters present & future.  The way the movie is  first shown thru Briony's eyes, then we see the same exact scenes from other point of view.  You know Briony is a control freak, especially when she tries to put on her play & when things don't go exactly as she planned, quickly abandons the whole idea.  Director Joe Wright uses everything at his disposal to create a true cinematic experience.  He jumps from wide shorts to extreme close ups, giving the viewer the sense that this is a very small part of a much larger world.  The soundtrack is perfect, in an exciting & haunting way.  It is used to the best advantage, the beat of the music in correlation to the action of the characters.
The acting was first rate.  There is not one weak link in the entire movie.  Kiera Knightely is superb, starting out distant, cold & remote, then slowly transforming as she begins to truly grasp her true feelings about Robbie.  James McAvoy is so convincing as the perfect human being, absolutely no chips on his shoulders, despite being university educated, but working class & poor, he can comfortable switch from the two extreme classes.  You can easily see the worlds thru his optimistic view.  Then after the horrible lie told by Briony, he is a changed man.  Bitterness and oppression slowly creep in but his love for Cecilia keeps the battle going between light & dark.  You can easily watch the inner turmoil on Robbie's face.  The inner turmoil is beautifully reflected by the outer turmoil of war & destruction, especially during the Dunkirk sequence.  The moment when he enters the cinema, frantically looking for something to drink, only to be lead into empty movie theater, while a humongous screen is depicting two lovers desperately, passionately kissing one another.  All 3 actresses playing Briony are perfect, both in their resemblance of each other & portraying the emotions each are going thru at that time in Briony's life.

This is not a movie for everyone.  It is an emotional journey, and an intelligent movie. It is a movie that makes you feel and question.  For those that like fast action, mindless entertainment, this will bore you to tears.  I personally would infinitely prefer this to "No country for old men" anytime!  One of the best movies I have seen in years,  a real experience.