All of Roman Polanski's films deal, more or less, with terror.  His grasp of the nature of fear and its origins in the fact of human evil - no doubt due to his youthful experiences of the Holocaust (his mother was murdered in Auschwitz) - make his films both excruciating and fascinating to watch.  Unlike most filmmakers, who bump up the terror until a denouement which leaves us once again serene; Polanski's films simply get progressively darker and more horrifying until they ultimately leave us with little more than the detritus of a world given over to its horrors.  "Repulsion" is an early film, and is not perfect, but all of Polanski's obsessions and skills are present here in a youthful and energetic fashion.  The polish of "Rosemary's Baby" or "Chinatown" is nowhere present in this film, and in many ways this crudeness helps give the film a measure of realism which makes its heroine's descent into madness more horrifying than the witchcraft allusions of "Rosemary's Baby" or the occult pretensions of "The Ninth Gate".  Polanski uses simple techniques to achieve a maximum of horror (watch for the early scene when Catherine Deneuve shifts a mirror only to see something which cannot possibly be there - it literally shocks you out of your seat) and this makes his tale of sexual repression and psychosis plausible enough to be terrifying in a way only the most believable horror can be.  "Repulsion" may not be a masterpiece - it is certainly technically inferior to many of Polanski's later films - but in some ways it is better than a masterpiece; it is the work of a master who has not yet fully realized his powers, and has all the charm and power of such young, ambitious, and energetic efforts.

*The other reviewers are correct that the quality of this DVD is very low.  However, the lousy transfer does not - in my opinion - mar the film's impact; and this is a film worth owning in any format.  Still, those who like their DVDs as pristine as possible should avoid this version.