I'll keep this rather concise. The title of this film is important: Not just "Lawrence" (a title a less imaginative director and writer might've attached to such a project), but "Lawrence of ARABIA." David Lean's saga tells the story of a man, disenchanted with the banality and rigid conformism of conventional society and the British military, who uses the desert as a stage upon which he creates and brings to life an entire enigmatic, legendary persona. His colorful behavior leads all of us to ask: What are Lawrence's true intentions in leading these wild Arabs? Is he a shameless, posturing opportunist? Does he genuinely care for the anti-Turkish cause? Is he seeking an escape from sterile "normal" life in an adventure with theatrical sheiks and surging waves of sabre-waving calvary? Is he a man abandoning his regulated station in favor of creating his own reality, his own life, as he chooses to shape it? 
I think it's a swirling, delightful, exuberant mixture of all of them. 
David Lean is a genius, as is less-is-more wordsmith Robert Bolt. And what about Peter O'Toole, you ask? No one besdies him could have generated such a wild-eyed, over the top drama. 
And I won't even comment on that dazzling supporting cast of Omar Shariff, Alec Guiness, Anthony Quinn, Claude Rains, and Jack Hawkins. And I will especially avoid going out of my way to describe the visuals of the film. Words can capture not its spirit and its vitality...this energy of a wash of robes against the backdrop of the arid immensity. 
I don't hold any one film to be my absolute FAVORITE of all time, but I do cherish a selection of films as my favorites, and films I consider to be the best of all time. Lawrence of Arabia is among them, alongside 8 1/2, 400 Blows, Citizen Kane, the Godfather, the Seventh Seal, Casablanca, and some others. But Lawrence transcends most of the other in the sheer panoramic scope of its imagination. This movie could never be made by a majoy Hollywood studio today; directors lack the courage and the inventiveness.