There is so much that can be said about this film for a number of reasons. Much of it would spoil the film for those who have yet to view it. Let's begin with the basics:
This film covers the time in John Merick's (the Elephant Man)life where he is rescued from a life of freakshow gawk and abusive captivity and follows him to his death. I don't know whether or not to recommend studying the history of this man before viewing the film or not. Be assured, however, that this film will leave an indellible and Deep mark in your soul regardless of how much (or little) you know historically.
John Merick was born with a disease (if it can be called such) that left him almost inhumanly disfigured and with skin that hung coarse, tumor filled, and loose {hence the name 'Elephant Man'}. He was hurried into a horrific existence of tormenting sneers and gasps from "audience" members at the freakshow he was the main attraction of. Early in the film a doctor (played spectacularly by Anthony Hopkins)'rescues' him and takes him into the eventual permanent care of the London Hospital. Slowly, Merick captivates and enlightens his caregivers to the (nothing short of) brilliant soul inhabiting his mangled shell.
What follows is easily considered on of THE BEST FILM PERFORMANCES in existence - namely by John Hurt as John Merick. Though all that is visible behind a stunning feat of prosthesis-makeup are Hurt's eyes and voice, he carries the essence of such a trampled being to levels rarely acheivable by mankind. The fact that he did not receive an Academy Award is beyond Blasphemy! Between the director's(David Lynch!) innovative and artistic beauty, and Hurt's soul wrenching performance, the film can almost be unbearable to watch at times. Anyone who has ever tasted the slightest cruelty of another's taunting will surely buckle under the weight of this film. The importance of this film is inexpressable. Historically, and socially, it shoves to the forefront all of our damnable crimes against eachother through our own sense of vanity and conformity.
This film ought to be required for all highschool and college students - if but for their own sake. It truly captures the wickedness we are all capable of and also (even moreso) the beauty we all hold within - even in the face of total obstacle.
Simply a MUST SEE for EVERYONE!