Any time I watch a movie or read a book, or anaylyze a plot of any kind, the first thing I focus on is its premise: what is it about?  why was it written/ made?  From the answer to that question flows the next questions: is the premise worth a whole book or movie?  and did the movie/ book present the premise in an interesting way?  By looking at any story thru this primer, I determine the worth of that story, as I suspect does a lot of people out there.
What bogged me down about Mystic River is that I could detect no central premise.  I coudl clearly see the effort and emotion of the actors, and appreciated the tragedies that brought about the conflict of the storyline.  However, the movie (I have not read the book) has no premise -- no basic message, no founding block that holds the pieces together.  The story seems to simply 'be' -- it had no point.  So the tragedies happen, and so one of the main characters dies.  But, so what?  How does one tragedy connect to the other in a meaningful way?  How does the result, the wrongful death, justify an entire story?  
One of the reviewers suggests that the ending was left deliberately vague.  But I contend that such a move, except for perhaps a mystery sequel, has no place for a story of 'integrity.'  An honest and talented storyteller has a duty to its audience to bring about a complete conclusion, to take a stand, to defend a position.  At the very least, the storyteller should challenge the audience to the conflict posed by the central premise of his story.  The only burning question in my head after watching Mystic River was: what the hell was this about?
Perhaps its a difference in philosophies, but I believe the presence of a central premise critical to a good story.  In this sense, Mystic River clearly lacked any meaningful premise.  I agree that the acting was stellar, the environment perfectly gloomy and the tragedies heart-felt, but these are only pieces of a whole puzzle.  Without the foundation, the pieces can only do so much.