I saw this movie before I read the book, and have since then read the book. Yes, it is incredibly different from the novel, but that does not mean that the movie cannot be good in and of itself. Considering the author of the book even enjoyed the movie despite the many changes, it should be less of an issue to the fans of the book. But now that that is finished...

I felt that this was an excellent movie. Visually complex, involving characters with many layers to them who are dynamic rather than static(as is typical with American animation that tends to be more directed at children), and situations requiring choices that display incredible depths of character, it was an incredibly moving story.

One of the many complaints I have read about this movie is that the plot moved either too quickly or too slowly, that things were wrapped up too tightly or too many loose ends were left. I believe this contradiction is accounted for by searching for a reason to dislike this movie, for whatever reason. The impression I am left with the more that I think about this movie is that rather than being plot-based as most movies seem to be, it is character-based. The events of the movie do not drive the characters along, but rather provide situations in which the characters must make their own choices according to their own personality. I believe that accounts for many of the difficulties with the plot.

No, the movie is not perfect, but then again no piece of art is, and that is what this needs to be remembered as: a piece of art, as all movies, books, etc., are. Greater background for some of the characters and the war would have given more depth to an already deep movie, but in a way, that is the beauty of this movie: it permits the viewer to be able to leave the theater and devise their own ideas for what started the war, just what the background of certain characters might be, etc.

As I am in the United States, I saw the dubbed version, and I felt that perhaps the young Sophie was not perfect, but now that I think about it, I felt that more at the beginning, when she is a nervous young girl with no confidence in herself. Towards the end, the voice works very well. The entire cast was well done, though the original Japanese version, which I have now seen, was equally as good, and perhaps even better, as the man directing the animation also directed their voice-acting.

Overall, I would say that if you are expecting a movie that has a plot moving its characters along because of the events, you will not enjoy this movie immensely. On the other hand, though, if you enjoy stories in which characters must make their own choices based on integrity and personality, this will be a good movie for you to see.