While critics bitched about this movie for been too much like the first movie, I think this flick had a lot going for it. It had a great trailer and has made a gigantic amount of money. I think the movie was a lot like the first Rush Hour, but it had a lot of new ideas and plenty more laughs and action in store. First off, the movie is best if you like Chris Tucker. I really enjoyed his performance and he brought up most of the obvious laughs in the movie. Okay, I'll be honest and say Jackie Chan's humour was much more natural and Tucker did annoy me an itsy-bit in places, but I still enjoyed his performance. Chan, while quite high on laughs, had the best action scenes and kicked some serious butt. The two actors have awesome chemistry and seeing them work together once more is a delight. I also enjoyed Zhang Ziyi's performance, she is still strong and sexy and fresh from Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. The first Rush Hour had an awesome ending, and all I can say for this movie is exactly the same but more praise. The ending kicked some serious booty! I just loved the whole casino deal and the bomb being in Jackie Chan's mouth provided some serious tension and suspense and lots of awesome action, neat one-liners and tonnes of funny scenes and ideas. Apart from all the funny stuff and sweet as action, the film also had some drama. The back-story to Tucker and Chan's fathers both being killed on the job was not exactly touching but it was a emotional attachment between the two characters and I appreciated it. But, to be completely honest, I didn't care for drama in this movie, I just wanted a laugh-a-minute good time at the flicks and I sure as hell got it! Okay, there were a couple of flaws in the flick, as I said before its a lot the first movie and is not exactly original in storyline but the gags are very new and cool and most importantly, HILARIOUS! I thought the movie was particularly annoying with that lady who we never know is a secret agent or a member of Zhang Ziyi's gang until the end. There wasn't much joy there. However, this movie is still a lot of fun and the bloopers are even better than the big picture itself! You just got to love those bloopers! So, overall, the movie had tonnes of energy, was fun to watch and had me rolling in the aisles! Summer fun if there ever was some! Hey, that rhymes...  
NOTE: Aside from rhyming reviews, I highly recommend this DVD as a Christmas present. It is reeased on December 11th and I think anyone - grandma's, granddads, parents, children, babies, cats, dogs - with love this film. So, for friends with a DVD, this is a good Christmas pressie!