Why am I not surprised that there is someone reviewing this classic who trashes it as if they had never seen it and were offended by the cultural sensitivity issues that are part of the film.  (See the Tallahassee reviewer titled "Do not purchase this video for children" January 21, 2003)  For crying out loud, this script reflects what was normal at the time the film was first released.  It's full of classic pieces that of course include a white dominated societal commentary on what was perceived as appropriate black cultural roots at that time.  Is it outdated?  Sure, so is nearly every other film from that era.  Does this make it less of a classic?  Absolutely not.  In fact, this is the *real* Disney, long before it was sanitized for the Anaheim-Orlando crowd.  Is the film inappropriate for a 21st century kid?  That's a parental decision, but if you plan to shelter your child from the real history of the U.S., they will have a rude awakening (with all the accompanying psychoses) that you *won't* be able to control.  My kids loved this film when they were very young.....we talked about the cultural issues by the time they were in school.....in fact, I distinctly remember them coming home to ask why some kids treated others so badly because of the color of their skin, their accents, etc.  We used Dumbo to show them what used to be, was is today, and how to deal with it.  And there was never a place where the original empathy of the film was lost on them.  They have repeatedly made personal decisions and stood up against improper cultural slurs their entire lives (they are all either in college or their final years of high school now).  I've been pleased with how they can see a cultural slur coming and are not willing to put up with any of the culturally "acceptable" ways of trashing others' ethnicity.
Now, what about the film?  This is a great Disney classic from the days when there was a full bodied, earthy smell to what they did.  It's release in this format provides a historical window on American culture from the 1950s that is true and clear.  It loses nothing in the 21st century translation and in fact, gains considerably from it's historical context.  A great child's film that every adult needs to understand!