The book "Michelangelo and the Pope's Ceiling" by Ross King is a worthwhile follow-up to the "The Agony and the Ecstasy".  It demolishes a few long-held myths about Michelangelo and the Sistine Chapel.  Firstly, he didn't paint the ceiling lying on his back.  This idea came about through a mistranslation of a description in Italian.  He stood but leaned backwards.  Secondly, he didn't work alone.  He had a team of apprentices.  Thirdly, he didn't just dream up the pictures to be painted.  He was given a detailed brief by the Vatican officials.

Michelangelo started at the altar end.  When he found the first images too small to be seen clearly from below he increased the size of the figures in the later frescoes.

Some reviewers have suggested that Charlton Heston didn't look much like Michelangelo.  There are three images of Michelangelo that come to mind.  Raphael depicted him as Heraclitus in "The School of Athens" fresco (bottom centre) in the Stanze di Raffaello in the Vatican.  Michelangelo's own self-portrait is on the skin of Saint Bartholomew in the "Last Judgement" (centre right) above the altar in the Sistine Chapel.  And, finally, there is Michelangelo's statue of Moses in the church of San Pietro in Vincoli in Rome.

Charlton Heston had a fortuitous association with Michelangelo.  When Cecil B. DeMille was struggling to cast Moses for "The Ten Commandments" his associate producer, Henry Wilcoxon, convinced DeMille with a photo of Michelangelo's Moses that Heston looked just like the statue.  (See "Written in Stone" by Katherine Orrison.)  Then a decade later Heston was given the part of Michelangelo.  (Both he and Michelangelo had broken noses!)

I've seen the Sistine Chapel ceiling three times over the decades: first, in 1969, before it was  cleaned; then during the cleaning (when modern scaffolding was supported from the same slots in the walls used by Michelangelo); and, finally, after the cleaning.

I saw "The Agony and the Ecstasy" in 1965.  At the time Irving Stone commented that when he wrote the book he spent a great deal of time going over the proofs in order to eradicate all traces of Americanisms only to have them put back by the film's script writer.

I look forward to seeing the film again if only to see the wonderful shots of the pope bombarding the hill town of San Gimignano in Sienna.

20th Century Fox is notorious for having most of its titles region-coded.  The DVD from Amazon is Region 1 and the DVD from amazon.co.uk is Region 2.  Perhaps someone will tell me if they are playable in Australia (Region 4).