If you have never seen the TV show Ally McBeal then I envy you... because you have a wonderful, special experience ahead. This is very rare entertainment. Ally McBeal transcends the sum of its parts (which are plentiful), and achieves a quality of experience that can only be termed... magical.

The first thing to be said of Ally McBeal is that the show makes you laugh. It makes you laugh out loud. I recently went through the whole series again on DVD, and time after time I had to stop the tape to let the latest wave of laughter wash over me. But the gift of laugh-out-loud-funny is just for openers. It gets better from there because the show combines brilliant stories with brilliantly acted out characters and adds brilliantly crafted special effects that gives birth to a unique entertainment experience which can only be characterized as ... brilliant. I'm serious. ;>

But no sooner do you come to realize that you're viewing a real gem of a show, the whole shebang goes over the top as music is magically woven in to the show. Suddenly the comedic riffs shift to song and dance. Some characters have their own personal theme music (like in, for example, Once Upon a Time in the West) that plays when they walk into the room or in some way are focused on. Sometimes its the "live" music in the bar downstairs. Sometimes its the characters jumping on stage in the bar downstairs and grabbing a mic. Or sometimes its the cast just spontaneously breaking into song and dance. So beautifully executed, it moves your heart. I'm not a fan of musicals per-say, but when done properly the addition of music to a comedy/drama can move the whole performance into warp drive, and a textbook example of this is Ally McBeal. Beyond the laughter (and laughter's counterpart; tears), Ally McBeal lights up your soul.

I would suggest you go into the series knowing as little about the particulars as you can. Approach the series fresh and unspoiled. There are five seasons total, and if you have read anything about the show falling apart in later seasons ignore it. Yes, the show does "peak" during season 2, but season 3 and 4 are chock full of the magic that makes Ally, Ally. Admittedly, there are longer and longer gaps in the magic though as season 5 brings the series to a close. But by then you are so in love with the characters that it's worth taking the ride just to hang out with them.

One last thing; The series *will* push you buttons. The social topics covered in both the courtroom, as well as the characters personal lives, are controversial. You may be made uncomfortable and disagree with some the points of view brought forth. I would just suggest though that buttons are NOT being pushed here merely for knee-jerk reactions. It's done to get us to think about these issues, not as oratory to persuade us to agree with a certain point of view.

Enjoy the magic!