I loved this movie, everything about it. I've been a fan of Asia Argento for sometime now, ever since I saw her in her father's movie, "Trauma". 
Some people may feel that she is hogging up the movie, with everything constantly revolving around her, but that's the point of the whole movie. She's trying to convey to the audience, being a child of a major Italian director, and a somewhat psycho mother, has done to her life. Most of it is true, but some is fictionalized. I watched it twice so far, once with the audio commentary with Asia herself, and the other time without. this was something she had to do to clear her conscience of her past trials and tribulations, and also to kill off her mother, actress, writer, Daria Nicolodi, who is ironically portrayed as her mother in the movie, to patch things up with her, in her real life.
This movie is not  glamourous, but rather a look back at ones personal life as she saw herself self-distructing, and being used and abused by various people in the movie business, among others. She explains in the commentary, as the movie goes along, and also in her interview, which is an extra on the dvd, filmed in New York City, that she needed closure in her life from the things she did and what had happened to her along the way, regarding drug-abuse, her mother, various movie mogels, and the man she wanted to spend the rest of her life with, then all of a sudden just left her and never came back, Kirk. Kirk was a musician in a progressive rock band that she met one night while attending a concert with her friend. They met, spent one romantic night with each other, she fell in love instantly, but apparently, he didn't. He explains that he has a career, and needs to pursue it, and someday he'll be back. But nothing ever came of it, and she only talked to him one more time over the phone, to tell him that she was pregnant by him.
This is a story of a woman who had practically no parental control over her, and was mostly watched by a nanny growing up. She goes through the drug faze, relationships, and is finally forced to take a look at herself, and what she's doing to herself, and her unborn baby. At the end she finds redemption from all this, and turns her life around, for the better.
I have been an e-mail buddy with Asia for about 2 years now, ever since I met her once in Los Angeles, Ca. I met her at the screening for this movie out there, and had a lengthy conversation with her, and found we had alot in common, and later exchanged e-mail addresses. This blew my mind, believe me or not, doesn't matter. We write each other only about twice a month or so, but she always has alot to say, and is an overall, beautiful, great, strong, good-hearted, loving woman.
 Hopefully she will direct another movie soon, but nothing is in the works yet. Right now she is making an action movie with the great Dennis Hopper, in Canada. I know I'll be seeing it. Love ya Asia. CIAO!!