First I'll start with the negative points of this movie, because I feel that it's best to have all the good things about it at the end, so then that's what you'll remember most about this review. Because I DO think this  is a good movie and I think any other Sailor Moon Omake will want for their  collection. (I really tried to be original with my opinions, since everyone  else mostly talked about the same things..Mini-Moon, Outers  voices..)
1.The Snow Dancers sounded more like yapping dogs! 
2.Luna's  old british accent made it hard to believe her whole relationship and  feelings for Kakeru; and since that's the main plot of the movie, well...  3.Unlike other reviewers, I did not like Himeko's voice.  In the subtitle,  her voice was so quiet and sweet, but the dub made her sound like some  spunky..I don't know what.  Just look at her conservative dress; it doesn't  fit. 4.I wish they could use the same didy-songs for every situation! Use  same transformation/fighting music for every fighting scene, same old Moon  Kingdom music for every romantice scene; and so on.  It got kind of old.  5.And...their mispronounciations of the Japanese names!  Whenever Luna said  'Kakeru' it immediately made me think of 'Kangaroo!' Like 'Fioreee' in the  R Movie Dub.
Now on to the positive points of this movie: (Remember,  gotta save the best for last..! ) 1.It mostly stuck to all the original  dialogue.  Some stuff wasn't as funny, cute, or emotional as with the  original Japanese.  But it's a dub, what did you expect?  2. Princess Snow  Kaguya's voice actually sounded believable to me. 3.  Nothing was really  cut out either.  Except with the transformation sequences.  Because I DID  notice some cutting out of the R Movie..and this wasn't so obvious to me.  I like it when they're subtle about things... 4. I liked it how they left  ONE of the Japanese BGM's; 'Ai no Message' for the Space scene.
I'm  usually very biased where Sailor Moon is concerned.  When I watched the R  Movie Dub, I found all sorts of things wrong with it.  I began watching the  S Movie while being a little bit more open-minded..So I finish off the good  points with my favorite one:
5.At the beginning of the movie, there I  am..being all serious and trying not to start criticizing it right away..It  goes to the scene with Kakeru looking through the telescope at the  comet...then all of a sudden he says, "Hello!  What's that? "  It  made me laugh soo hard!  I mean, if you've seen this movie you'll know what  I'm talking about.  He said "Hello! " Like some guy would say it  if he saw a cute chick.  It was so funny!  That's when I started to relax  and just WATCH the movie.  #5 is what made me fall in love with this  movie.