Since a plot summary has already been mentioned, I'll forgo the usual style of reviews.  I really enjoyed this film and on many different levels.  There's something emotionally picaresque about Hanson's ode to college life.  Perhaps from a personal standpoint, the nostalgia that lingers from my college days is conjured-up so affectively by this movie about 3 generations of English-lit men.  I, myself, was an English major with aspirations (still) of becoming a writer and I believe this film captures, in it's essence, the simultaneous perils that face each option on screen. From the misunderstood undergraduate who, while misguided, is a literary bright-spot but who must contend with the outside world in order to maintain a social standing in which to present his work, the mid 30's career editor, who perhaps not the greatest writer, has an eye for good literature, and who has to struggle with the business details of creative art and finally our protagonist, a 50 year old writer/educator who must let go of the trappings the other two face in order to feel free to create on his own terms.  
For anyone who went to college, this film will make you surrender to every flight of fancy, every idealistic notion you ever held before entering the "real world." It will conjure up the ruminations of past regrets when the choices made may not have led you to the end you idealized, but it will show you that it wasn't all for naught, and that everyone gets a second chance. 
Dylan's theme song is so appropriate and such a perfect match that this alone makes the film worth the money.  In fact, one can almost see Bob Dylan's career and the plight of a lot of baby boomers in Hanson's film.  People born out of ideals and dreams supported by the academic world and the intelligentsia, who've grown cynical by the world's reaction to them, but have nonetheless withstood the "Pittsburgh snow storms" and are ageless, if a little disheveled, rocks for which the young can bounce their own ideals off of.