I can't compare this version of The Omen to the original, having never seen the original, but that's not important. This was a dull, plodding, and nonsensical movie all on its own. The story (an unsuspecting couple accidentally raises the Antichrist) is full of plot holes and inconsistencies, and the film seemed too focused on creating atmosphere rather than creating characters. Atmosphere is important, especially in a horror movie, but it does nothing when the movie is populated with flat, undeveloped people.

The center of the attention, the Antichrist, is a small boy named Damien (geddit) who we know is evil because he glares at things. That's pretty much all he does, except for some occasional screaming. The child has no character to speak of, barely any lines, and is treated as an object rather than a person. He's all but absent for much of the film, and he's talked about rather than to. We don't see him interact with his parents or with the kids he goes to school with, and the viewer is left with the impression that little Damien is severely developmentally disabled rather than the spawn of Satan. Other than that he's the bringer of the apocalypse (or something), there's nothing to him. His parents, played by a passable Liev Schreiber and a horrendous Julia Stiles, often proclaim deep feelings about him, both parental love and fear, but we barely see them interact with Damien at all. This is why when Schreiber waxes sentimental about how he's raised Damien as his son, how he feels paternal love and care for the child, it rings false. Throughout the movie, Schreiber is never home. For her part, Stiles plods stiffly through her lines like a kid in a high school play pretending to be a grown-up, and similarly seems to have no real connection to her son or to much else, least of all the film itself. Mia Farrow appears as a Satanic nanny, and her performance is the best in the film, though her character is so stereotypically evil that it's hard to imagine why she was hired as a nanny in the first place. But again, she only shows up to underscore the fact that something evil is going on. We never see her interactions with Damien, either.

The plot is something about a prophecy of doomsday and a plot by some shadowy Satanists to ensure the rise of the Antichrist. It uses several topical events to illustrate this. There are some ominous dogs, a few spooky settings, and some unintentionally hilarious death scenes. The story makes little sense in many places, and no sense in the rest, and much of the time the actions and plot turns seem too convenient, or simply there as a way to get in some nice camerawork. At the end, all the tension regarding the impending apocalypse is deflated, and we're left with nothing but another empty stare from Damien. Overall, The Omen is a dull, underdeveloped, and unsatisfying film.