I'm finding it mildly amusing that the fans of Heroes were totally outraged when Tom Kring did not satisfy them in a 11-episode writer's strike shortened season.

They are flabbergasted, incredulous, and furious! A television show wasn't as good in 11 episodes as it was in 23! I can hear them knashing their teeth and plotting revenge all the way from Oregon. It's a little ridiculous, really.

Yes, sophomore slumps are almost inevitable. You can't introduce an idea like "Heroes" does and then branch out enough from that idea in the second season to please your viewers. It just doesn't happen. Why? Because it's basically the same idea, v.2. No matter how you spin it, it's never going to be as exciting as when it was introduced the first time around.

Still, the amount of 1-Star reviews (and the amount of people AGREEING with those 1-Star reviews) is just astounding to me. It's not as good as the first season, but compared with television at large, it's still excellent! What were the reasons for those terrible reviews? I'll go over them with you guys.

1. The Heroes, after coming together in New York to stop the explosion that would kill .07% of the people on the planet, are spread up again.

Seriously, guys? Really? You're angry that they're isolated from each other again? That was part of the appeal of the first season! That totally ordinary people find powers in totally ordinary situations. They come together to stop the explosion, and then they do the thing that most of us would do: go back to their normal lives when they believe the threat has been vanquished. Yes, it's not as climatic and exciting as forming a justice league against all evil (as I heard several posters suggest), but it's realistic!

2. This season doesn't go anywhere. The plot doesn't move like it should.

Yes, I agree that the plot is less exciting (but still very exciting!). Again, 11-episodes aren't a whole lot to work with. It does go places though, and a whole bunch of things are explained. Starts a bit slow when they're introducing characters, but it picks up readily. Inevitable this would happen, don't swear off Heroes forever because of it.

3. There were logical fallacies with the plot. Some things just shouldn't happen like they did.

When you're watching a science fiction show, you have to rein back your doubt. If you're always questioning "can that really happen?" then you'll never enjoy it. Heroes makes you "think" a lot more than any other television show that I've found, including Lost, which I personally think to be even worse than Heroes in this regard. Besides, you have to move the story along somehow. Some of the plot points were a little, lets say, convienent. But that's the case with a ton of shows. Just sit down and shut up.

4. CLICHES!!!

*sigh*. Yes, there were cliches. Daddy issues and time traveling ran amok in Season Two. It's unfortunate, but still no reason to totally alienate the show. Find me a show that doesn't use cliches to a reasonable extent at some point in it's duration, and I'll eat my hat.

5. New Characters bored me. I want to catch up with HIRO!

It astounded me how many people cited the new characters as a source of boredom. Yes, everyone has a favorite character that makes your stomach squirm when they're on camera. Still, how in the hell do you think Tom Kring was going to advance the plot with so many shadowy characters in doubt without introducing new ones? I agree some of their stories got a bit lackidaiscal at times, but they all had a driving force and were intriguing.

6. Why the $%#@ is Hiro in Japan? And why is he no longer awesome?

If you watched the entire season 2, you would realize that it was vitally important that Hiro travel back to Japan in order to further shed light on Kensei. Yeah, it's convienent. What of it? To answer the second question, he's still pretty awesome, just no longer cracking jokes with Ando and being amusing because, I don't know, he's trying to CORRECT HISTORY AND NOT GET KILLED. It's a bit of a downer, unfortunately. Stop complaining, Hiro fans, you knew from the moment you saw him in "5 Years Later" that Hiro would be getting more serious than his slacker geeky self.

7. Bad Writing

Heroes relies heavily on special effects, and in the first season, no one cared that the dialogue was a bit, well, ordinary. Now, when the plot is less exciting and the effects are no longer mind-blowing, the fanboys turn on the writing. Don't complain now boys, it was there all along.

In conclusion, Heroes is still a great show, and to all the "fans" who felt betrayed by this show in it's second season, you need to get a life. You act life this show caters to your every need. Guess what? It's going to do unpopular things to further the plot. It happens. Heroes Season Three is going to be epic, and soon the complainers will be just as hooked as the rest of us as Tom Kring makes it up to the naysayers.

4/5