Don't listen to the critics on this one, Fanboys did exactly what it set out to do; it had its share of flaws, but in the end it's a fun, somewhat-vulgar, road trip romp full of geektastic in-jokes and more random cameos than a Kevin Smith movie (including Kevin himself).
Those familiar with the long, arduous production this movie had to deal with will know just how long we had to wait, and while I think the original cut (before 'Darth' Weinstein decided it wasn't mainstream enough and tried to butcher it before it was even finished) would have been a better movie, it still accomplishes it's simple goal.
Fanboys is the story of Eric, Linus, Hutch, and Windows, four of the most life-long, die-hard and dedicated Starwoids you've ever met. These are the nerds who drive around in an elaborately-tricked-out Star Wars van (Bucephalus), know literally every bit of Star Wars or geek-related trivia out there, and spend their free time playing the video games, reading the comics, watching and reenacting the movies and discussing the most seemingly-insignificant of Star Wars details more passionately than any presidential debate. For these guys, Star Wars is a way of life, and more importantly, the bond that has glued four incredibly different friends together for life... whether they like it or not.
Eric Bottler knows this all too well; see, three years ago, he decided that Dad was right and he needed to grow up and move on. So he got a job at his father's used car dealership and began climbing the ranks, letting his friends (and Star Wars) fall to the wayside. It's now 1999, six months to go until the release of the Phantom Menace, and Eric's betrayal of the Wars was especially hard on Linus, Eric's best friend, and partner-in-crime; not only had Linus and Eric planned for years to start their own comic book and become geektastic stars in their own right, but not long after Eric bails on them, he's diagnosed with cancer. And with his expiration date looming closer and closer, it's become apparent that Linus very well might be gone by the time the movie hits theaters. Still, he stubbornly refuses to even tell Eric about his illness, and Eric is still disgusted with his friends' immaturity. But the other half of the dynamic quad won't let them end things on this note. Hopelessly awkward Windows and fat, irritating Hutch take matters into their own hands, spilling Linus' secret and prompting an apologetic, deeply unhappy, and even deeper-in-denial Eric to suggest one crazy idea that's been festering in the back of all their minds since the fifth grade: road trip it to northern California, and break into Skywalker Ranch, this time to find an advanced copy of the new movie so Linus can see it before he dies.
The road trip follows the usual formula of random things happening in random places, with plenty of Star Wars twists, of course; Hutch takes the guys on a detour to Riverside, Iowa to mock Trekkies; Bucephalus breaks down and the boys are forced to brave a bar full of gay bikers in order to fix it; Windows meets his internet dreamgirl, only to find Rogue Leader isn't who she seems; they get arrested and bailed out by gal pal, Zoe; there's a hilarious incident with a pair of hookers and their pimp in Vegas, where our heroes once more run into Admiral Seascholz and his crew of "Trekkers".
Considering the miniscule budget the production had to work with (the movie would probably never have been made without random fans popping out of the woodwork and offering themselves for use as extras, or their stuff for set dressings), it's actually rather impressive. They also managed to gather a group of some of the most underrated twenty-something actors around. And who can forget the cameos; of the direct Star Wars camp, Carrie Fisher (Princess Leia), Billy Dee Williams (Lando Calrissian), and Ray Park (Darth Maul) all make an appearance. William Shatner shows up as the boys' Vegas contact, and Harry Knowles of Ain't It Cool News is given a send-up (Harry himself was unable to actually play himself in the movie). And Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith) and a slew of others have a scene or two.
According to most of the critics, the gang's opinion of Phantom Menace should be the point of the movie (more importantly, the gang's negative opinion, because apparently no one is allowed to actually like it). If you're only watching for Episode One-bashing, don't bother; as Linus so directly puts it, "this wasn't about the movie... this was about all of us." And if you're there to mock the fanboy (or girl), you'll be disappointed as well. This is a celebration of the fanboy, and all that he (or she) stands for. On the other hand, it could be argued that it's not even really about Star Wars; it's about brotherhood; about never giving up on your dreams, or your friends; and never letting anyone tell you that you're too... whatever, for the stuff you love.
Thoroughly recommended, as long as you don't go into it expecting it to be more than what it is. Non-Starwoids might be a little lost, but don't let that scare you away; there's plenty of stupid, vulgar, non-geek humor, too (I'll let you decide if that's a good or bad thing).