I very much wanted to enjoy this film, and perhaps because my expectations were so high, the experience was so disappointing. I have seen almost all Kurosawa's surviving films and this one, in my estimation, falls in the bottom half of his oeuvre for quality. And yet, it contains powerful elements which still make it worth seeing. There is a strange imbalance between the unsatisfactory performances of the two main characters and trite overall storyline of master-taming-arrogant-pupil, on the one hand, and the impassioned acting of secondary characters and genuine pathos achieved in passing vignettes. Mifune gives a one-dimensional performance as the eponymous Red Beard: master-doctor and life-guru. When the film is centred on him it seems pompous. Red Beard's protege, Dr Yasumoto, is a character with more scope, but the actor playing it, Yuzo Kayama - chosen, one suspects, because of his looks and box-office appeal rather than acting ability - is not up to the demands of the part. He has a small palette of expressions: bewilderment, anger and a stare into space during scenes when he sits at the edge of the action. The fact that the film overcomes these weaknesses, to the extent that it does, is something of a marvel. It is wholly because of the extraordinary performances of the secondary players, especially Terumi Niki, Kyoko Kagawa, Yoshitaka Zushi and Akemi Negishi.

The DVD is a highly restored transfer. Whatever "patina" Donald Richie saw and enjoyed about the image has gone: the film has been restored to within an inch of its life. But these things are always a trade-off, so no big deal. Richie's useful, albeit brief, notes describe the enormous care that was taken with set design and authenticity in achieving a late-Tokugawa "look", and also how Kurosawa made only fractional use of the vast set he created.  The film, paradoxically, often looks like a stage production, with its stylised prop placements and side lighting, rather than a "location" film. Authenticity and historical detail are not values that come through. Indeed, although its running time and story type would imply an epic style of film-making, in fact it is more a collection of closely-observed vignettes. This is exemplified by a long recollection sequence - a story told by a dying patient - that involves neither of the main characters and almost sits outside the film.

There is a commentary track on this DVD but no other substantial extras.