Some information:

Ok, I talked to someone at Warner Bros Legal (not some customer service rep, but someone at the studio itself), and found this out: There are NO English subtitles on this set, and it was NOT a mistake. Warner Bros has just recently decided that for ALL TV and children's fare, they will NO LONGER include English subtitles as they have in the past (theatrical movies on DVD will continue to have English subtitles, but not any TV product or children's shows on DVD anymore -- including the West Wing). I was told this is now corporate policy, and the advertising of there being subtitles in English (both in all sales literature and on the outside of the DVD box itself) was a mistake. If anyone wants a refund because of this (if the place where they bought it from won't give you the refund) you can call WB's customer service line and ask to send it back for a refund. But this is WB's new policy: no English subtitles on any of their TV or children's fare. So that would also include Season 7 when it comes out.

There *ARE* closed captions on this set. For some reason it seems from the posts here that I'm not the only one unable to get them to appear -- but they ARE there. My TV has closed captioning, and when I turn it on ("CC1") I see it on most of the TV channels, as well as from VHS tapes. But I DO NOT see it at all with this DVD set. However I took it over to a friend's house, and on her unit, the closed captioning appears. I don't know why it doesn't on mine. I tried 3 different DVD players (all different manufacturers) and could not get the closed captioning from this set. It's a mystery, but my friend's setup displays it for some strange reason. So while there are no English subtitles on this set, there ARE (I guess) closed captioning -- though you may or may not be able to see it depending on your setup. It's a mystery why I see closed captioning on VHS tapes and off TV, but not from this box set.

As well as the discs being "stacked" atop each other, note that WB sadly decided to put their sticky RFID tags (security prevention Radio Frequency ID tags) on the inner CARDBOARD instead of on the plastic as is most common. So if those stupid things bug you (as they do me) you cannot take them off without ripping the cardboard and artwork from where it's stuck on top of. Such a simple idea just to put them on the plastic parts of the box, and you'd have none of this, but nope, they stick them right on top of the artwork inside.

For me, I'd probably rate this season as 4 stars, except I'm giving it 3 stars because of the way WB handled this set, abandoning subtitles, stacking discs as someone else mentioned, putting the RFID tags on the cardboard so it tears the artwork if you try to remove it, etc.

Almost makes me want to get the UK DVD sets instead of the US ones (all of my players are multi-region), but it's probably not worth the cost. But it's reasons like these why people often get foreign pressings of CDs and DVDs -- because they're often treated much better by the foreign video arms of the studios than the US ones.

Anyway, hope that helps clear up the subtitle thing.