USA The Movie: This is a movie for NOW! I came to it in a very round about way -- through a posting on indymedia.org about one of my heroes, Pink Floyd's Roger Waters. The film deals with war and how we can't seem to get away from it. So it isn't just about Now but it's also about Then. It's about US and Them. The film somehow makes me feel like I'm not alone in these frustrating times and I haven't seen many movies that have given me this feeling without a lot of talking, so its a real find.

Here are some excerpts of the post from indymedia by Hannah Korigian:

"Roger Waters is the most intellectual and complex lyricist in rock. Both in his solo work and in his work with Pink Floyd, Waters builds conceptual underpinnings for his creations that add an unusual depth in a field generally known for simplistic expressions. Unlike most rock music, which revels in sexuality, the vicissitudes of love and general "good times", Waters' compositions focus on larger issues such as war, personal alienation, mortality and societal apathy. These themes are played out in a multitude of ways, from the exploration of time and the cycle of life in "Dark Side Of The Moon", the longing for lost innocence in  "Wish You Were Here", bitter criticism of social norms and structures in "Animals", individual breakdown and militarism in "The Wall" and the tragedies of war in "The Final Cut". Waters continued to explore the darker side of the human experience in his solo work, perhaps most effectively in "Amused To Death" in which he takes aim at the fusion of militarism and entertainment. Rather than being a "rocker" in the usual sense of the word, Waters is a consummate social critic who utilizes the forum of rock to express his views to a wide audience...."

"Waters has influenced many over the years and his style is reflected in the works of music and visual expression by a variety of artists.  In recent times a notable example of artistic creation in the Floyd/Waters style is the relatively obscure independent film "USA The Movie"which has the same complexity and multi-faceted approach to cinema as Waters has to composition. "USA The Movie" merges a free-floating fictional storyline with real world events and places.  It is a take on war, past and present, through the "comfortably numb" eyes of an aging American hippie who can't break free of his own apathy and thus becomes a symbolic weapon of mass destruction. "USA The Movie" has a particular resonance with "The Final Cut" and such lyrics as:

"In my rear view mirror the sun is going down
Sinking behind bridges in the road
And I think of all the good things
That we have left undone
And I suffer premonitions
Confirm suspicions
Of the holocaust to come."

The filmmaker, W.T. Zeyera, who in various interviews has expressed his admiration for Roger Waters' work and sensibility, also utilizes audio in "USA The Movie" in distinctly Floyd/Waters manner. The audio design brings together elements of sound, speeches and music to create a profoundly haunting atmosphere reminiscent of  "Dark Side Of The Moon" or in a more biting tone - "Amused to Death". This is a Floyd/Waters type of project not in the entertaining or rock and roll sense but in the willingness to take its time and captivate through its substance as well as style..."

[...]