My first contact with Mike Leigh's film Naked came with a series of soundbites that DJ's at the University of Maryland's college radio station had sampled and turned into station ID's. These included several monologues by David Thewlis' frustrated and angry protagonist, Johnny, including his rants about the coming apocalypse. This prompted me to seek Naked out on VHS, and I was both troubled and fascinated by Leigh's film.

Nearly twenty years later, Criterion has released naked on Blu-Ray, for the first time giving me the chance to see the film as it was intended. I'm struck by the composition and stark cinematography -- both of which hold up remarkably well, whereas many other films from the 1990's do not. And although the film documents a very specific time at the turn of the century in economically-depressed post-Thatcher England, it is still very relavent today.

Naked centers around Johnny, a young man from Manchester fleeing the repercussions of an act of brutality that occurs within seconds of the film's opening. He arrives in London, where he calls on his ex-girlfriend and her flatmate, developing a physical relationship with one as he longs for a romantic relationship with the other.

We then follow Johnny through the next forty-eight hours of his life, drifting through nighttime London and disrupting the lives of the various people he encounters until he inevitably returns to his ex-girlfriend's flat. Johnny's odyssey is at once satirical, tragic and so unflinchingly brutal that it becomes difficult to watch.

There is also a parallel storyline involving the owner of the flat, an affluent sociopath named Jeremy who is perhaps one step away from American Psycho's Patrick Bateman. Both Johnny and Jeremy are brutal to the women they meet, but are fundamentally different. Although the consequences of their behavior on the women they encounter is the same, their motivations are diametrically opposed. Without Jeremy, it would be impossible for the audience to have any compassion for Johnny.

Much has been made of Naked's misogyny, but I think it's important to understand the distinction between documenting misogyny and condoning it. Naked doesn't justify such behavior, but lays it bare for the audience to see. It may not be pleasant, but it's a part of human life that should be examined and discussed.

The film is in the middle in terms of getting the "Criterion treatment" -- besides offering up a solid HD transfer, it includes an interview with American director Neil Labute (In the Company of Men) about the film, who has also been charged with misogyny for his own cinematic studies of the dark side of masculinity, a thirty minute interview with Leigh recorded for the BBC, a commentary track featuring the director and some of the actors, and the original theatrical trailer (which makes Naked look like a relationship comedy). The extras all help to enlighten Leigh's motivations for making the film, but lack the "film school in a box" quality of other Criterion releases.

If you're coming to Naked as a fan of Leigh's other films, particularly those centered around family dynamics, I think you should be aware that this film is very different from his other work. It dispenses with his usual ensembles and almost solely focuses on a single character. However, if you're interesting into delving into the psyche of one angry and embittered young man and seeing how he effects the people around him, then Naked is definitely worth your time.