Rope is a great piece of film that really requires more than one viewing, even from people who may not have enjoyed it for its story.  First time round of course you get caught up in the whole 'no edits' thing because chances are quite high somebody has told you about how Hitchcock experimented with just running the reels to their end and cutting only when he required a reel change.  You undoubtably go into this movie with that in mind and are quite determined to find flaws... ultimatly for the first ten - twenty minutes you do so, but then you forget and just watch it because its a really thrilling story.  Set inside the three rooms (plus entrance hall) of a 1940s New York apartment, it never leaves.  In fact it barely leaves the sitting room where the trunk stands dominating the forground, concealing the body of young David from the party guests eating off his coffin.

The movie finishes and you realise 'hey, I forgot to look for the edits!'  So you watch it again, this time having been captured by the chilling and albeit slightly sick story of murder commited for sake of murder, you are sure you will not miss a thing this time.  But then you start noticing the comedy that you didn't quite pick up first time.  Especially David's girlfriend Janet, she is quite a remarkable character, quirky, uncomfortable and strangely attractive even though she says the word 'chum' far too many times.  And also Rupert, played by the legendary James Stewart, his interaction with the other characters is priceless, in particular the way he makes fun of women's discussion techniques and how they don't really say anything worthwhile but yet they know exactly what they are talking about.  All of a sudden the movie is over and yet again you've forgotten to take note of Hitchcock's edits.  Keep trying, and eventually you'll see what the fuss is about, but by then you don't care because you've fallen in love with the movie as a piece of Hitchcock genius.

I would suggest avoiding the 'Rope Unleashed' making of simply because it doesn't really tell you anything about how it was made, it just talks about how the two main characters are homosexual.  You can take that as fact or not, either way it doesn't change the story any, and to be honest until I watched that doc I hadn't noticed it.