Brandon Margera, better known to all of us as "Bam", is one guy that could be considered the ultimate problem child, especially to his parents Phil and April Margera and his uncle Don Vito.  When MTV granted Bam virtual carte blanche to do anything he so desired to annoy, tick off and otherwise drive his parents up the wall and back down it again the end result was "Viva La Bam".

So how would our dear young Mr. Margera and his crazy band of friends (Ryan Dunn, Chris Raab aka "Raab Himself", Brandon DiCamillo and Rake Yohn)top the craziness and insanity caused in the first season of VLB?  The answer comes in Viva La Bam: The Complete 2nd and 3rd Seasons, the second volume in the VLB series on DVD.

The first 2 discs, which contains all 8 episodes of the 2nd season (Disc 1) and all 8 of the 3rd season (Disc 2), begins essentially where season 1 ended: all of the antics of Bam and crew have forced the township to order Bam to move out of the area ASAP.  Bam goes on a house hunt and finds the perfect house to move into.

However, when Bam and company move in (or at least begin the attempt to), Bam's brother Jess from the band CKY shows up and demands that Bam and crew hed to Amsterdam for a CKY concert.  Bam agrees and leaves Phil and April in charge of the moving in process.  But when Bam returns he hates what Ape does to the house and turns it into Castle Bam (simply put: his house his rules).

Most of the events in the entire 2nd and 3rd seasons takes place in and around the new Margera house, ranging from Bam finding a Civil War cannonball on the grounds of his house to building a (literal) treetop casino, a classic episode that finds Johnny Knoxville paying a visit that suddenly turns into an all-out prank war, Bam inviting rock band Slayer to perform in his backyard (and the entire town of West Chester) to check it out), and more.

The funnest events send everyone out of the state in some episodes, including Bam and the gang flying to Cali to get some serious celebrity swag for a new snakerun driveway that includes a visit to the Playboy Mansion, a 2-part episode that has Bam, Phil, April, Vito, the entire crew (save for Ryan Dunn) and several popular skaters going on a trip to Mardi Gras in New Orleans that turns from a 20 hour trip to one that goes for nearly 3 DAYS and turns into a hilarious prank war as well, which also turns into a sprint race between Dunn and everyone else to get there first, and a cruise that goes seriously askew when Don Vito is made the captain of the ship and ends with of all things a Blackhawk helicopter!

The 3rd disc contains bonus features similar to what the 2nd disc of VLB Season 1 did: bonus scenes, deleted stuff and music videos.  The only thing that costs VLB Seasons 2 & 3 a star is the fact that the gang didn't add commentary for the episodes like they did last time.  That would probably given the set a full 5, but it is only a partial loss.

So if you ever wish you could do, in the immortal words of Bam, "whatever the ... I want", then Viva La Bam: The Complete 2nd and 3rd Seasons is your wish being granted...