If you are a White Stripes fan who did not really feel the new record, I've gotta tell you something. If you do not own "Under Blackpool Lights" then I've gotta tell you to buy it because, for one thing, I really shouldn't have to need anything to back it up with, but if you really want to know why someone would, well here's why:

It's got all of the stuff that the Stripes did before that album. Besides, there are some things that are worthy of being seen. I thought the guitar solo on the studio version of "Ball and Buscuit" was great, but listen to this on the DVD. It's amazing how it sounds on here. That is one of the reasons you should buy it.

If you're a casual fan, don't worry. Even though Jack doesn't ever perform his stateside breakthrough, most of the hits are performed anyway. I really like the drum clicking of "The Hardest Button to Button" and the crowd seemed excited too. Also performed was easily their most popular song ever, "Seven Nation Army". It's performed basically how you'd expect. But then again, this live DVD was pretty much what I expected.

Even when the electric piano is used like in "Apple Blossom" or the organs on "Truth Doesn't Make a Noise", he doesn't forget to rock with the guitar.

You also get two Son House covers in a row (both faithful in that they are both done very bluesy), the great "Jolene" rendition (which you may have heard), as well as covers from obscure bands who only really were known in their local areas.

There's also the big morph they have after the first two songs, which includes covers of Bob Dylan and Ledbetter. There's also two original Stripes songs in that mix as well as another cover.

It did not thrill me like the Cure's "Trilogy" DVD, but nothing really does to be honest. It just gets a four because for whatever reason I feel that there was something missing, I don't really know what it was. I don't know if the DVD I had was the problem, but the sound quality was even a bit rough for my tastes in general. But I don't understand how you won't like this if you like the White Stripes.