This cinematic masterpiece just isn't fair to the rest of the movie world, or to humanity in general.  It's just so epic in its scope, its haunting and, might I say, avant guard portrayal of New York a la 'Lord of the Flies' (but lord of the flies is more like 'a steaming pile of dung with lots of flies buzzing around its foul odor' compared to this work of genius).  I mean, the socio-economic implications of this movie are simply staggering.  Ok, I'm not sure what socio-economic means, or how it applies here, but I'm always right so I won't delete it.

Look folks, I'm a complete off the flizzle PIMP when it comes to the ladies, and to kicking ass, being cool and not sucking.  But let's face it, Rudy don't have a sweet reptilian-inspired name like 'Snake'.. or even 'snapping turtle' or 'Limbless Snake-tooth Skink'; nor does he sport a hard-ass eye patch and talk real gruff in a crazy monotone voice that's just TERRifying to all who hear it.  I mean, THAT's how good Kurt Russell is.  He can pretend to be a horrible actor and never change the timbre of his voice but pull out the breakthrough performance of a lifetime.  How the Academy ignored his performance here boggles my higly evolved mind.  When he said "Call me Snake" I crapped all over myself and had to take a 20 minute shower to get the smell off of me.  The amazing thing is that even after the 500th time Snake said in that gruff voice to "Call me Snake" I still crapped myself.  Yes folks, I crapped myself 587 times that night.  But I still got laid, that's how good looking I am.  This is a GREAT date movie by the way.

Ah, John, you complete me.  John Carpenter made the super-cheesy quick zoom fashionable in this early 80's menagerie of perfection, much in the same way that The Vapors made the idea of "Turning Japanese" into the latest craze in uber-culture mimicry.  I sang "Turning Japanese" in this disco bar in Lafayette, IN one time, wearing a kimono with nothing under it.  I'm an amazing  interpretive dancer, plus I have a huge unit that was bulging out, so suffice it to say I scored some major asian tang THAT night.  But back to John Carpenter.  Ok, probably the most important part of any movie is the soundtrack.  We can all agree on that.  And this one scores in the top five soundtracks of all time.  Maybe top 3.  The dichotomy of using nothing but crap synth and horrible fx that I could easily create on my casio portable keyboard and somehow pulling off the soundtrack of a lifetime just floors me.  Bravo, Johnny boy, bravo.

In summary, Johnny C. is a visionary and a scholar, Kurt Russell is the most versatile and non-repetitive actor of all time, this movie has a script that rivals Apocalypse Now or even (dare I say) Fast Times at Ridgemont High, and the soundtrack should win every grammy in every category ever invented.  Don't miss this movie.

-Rudy