Courage is in fact already present in a willingess to insert one's self into the world and begin a story of one's own. Hannah Arendt

Both Valerie Plame Wilson and her husband Ambassador Joe Wilson were raised in Republican families.

Their joint voiceover of the entire film in Special Features explains moment by moment 4 years in their life from 2002 to 2006 while Valerie Plame refused to speak publicly in respect of the CIA until compelled under oath to testify before Congress. Final rolling titles have actual footage of Valerie Plame while testifying.

Governmental provision of security to White House staff including Rove and Libby and their families, yet refusal to shield the Wilsons' from death threats results in their 4yo twins being terrified, the couple's disparate attitudes toward revelation crumbling the marriage, self-doubt for Ms. Plame of her duty to confidentiality.

Also see <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001D7T460">National Geographic: Stress - Portrait of a Killer</a> documentary about 30 years research into brain shrinkage in neurons (brain cells) responsible for memory and learning due to stress.

Ms. Plame's Colonel father played by Sam Shepherd provides sage advice to the confused, beaten, ambivalent Plame.

I recall my own father saying "My role is to play Devil's Advocate so I can hear your arguments in defense of your position." We would argue until 3AM religion, politics, news articles. I miss my staunchest tiger cheerleader, believer, encourager as must Ms. Plame.

All humans face crisis when choosing restraint in the face of public vilification, gossip and concerted betrayal. All are duty bound not to reveal secrets entrusted to our care.

Any decision to break the code of privacy may only be achieved with personal pain and under oath. Behavior depends on duty, honor, ethics, faith in American democracy.

He who tells a lie betrays a trust: for he wishes his listener to put faith in him,
while he himself fails to honor that listener's trust.
Augustine de Mendacio