I am a huge fan of the Harry Potter series and highly recommend this movie to add to your collection.  For those of you who are not familiar with the story, the fourth book basically brings about a tournament in which three wizards, one from Hogwarts and two from visiting wizarding schools, compete in three extremely dangerous and difficult tasks to win the tri-wizard cup and eternal glory.  The Goblet of Fire is where entrants submit their names.  The goblet then selects three wizards to compete.  New rules set forth that only wizards seventeen and older were allowed to compete.  However, not only is Harry Potter selected, he is one of four, not three...who put his name in the cup?  Watch the movie to find out.  This year's new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher is Mad Eye Moody, an ex-auror who uses a practical approach to teaching magic and befriends and helps Harry, on Dumbledore's orders, throughout the tournament.  This book also brings about the return of Lord Voldemort.  It's a thrilling, exciting, and action packed movie from beginning to end, with dragons, dangerous mermaids, and a killer maze to boot!

OVERALL
The Goblet of Fire was a highly entertaining movie.  True it doesn't follow the book to the letter, but it becomes increasingly more difficult to follow JK Rowling's detailed storylines when the books become increasingly longer.  Things have to be shortened, modified, or dropped altogether and I felt the screenwriters did a fine job of keeping and/or detailing what was neccessary.

CASTING
The casting of Ralph Fiennes and Voldemort was superb and that final scene with Harry was as chilling and frightening as the book described.  For the most part, the three champions (Krum, Cedric, and Fleur) were depicted quite successfully, although I felt that Fleur's character was depicted on the "wimpier" side than as described in the book.  Mad-Eye Moody's casting I think was second most successful only to Voldemort.

MUSIC
The most glaring negative comment I have to offer are with regard to the musical score.  As wonderful a composer Patrick Doyle is and as fitting as the score ended up being, I was very disappointed by John Williams (who of course scored the first three) absence from the fourth installment.  Again, it may have only been noticeable to a small number of people (particularly myself, who is not only a big fan of John Williams and his music, but a composition student in graduate school as well) and it served its purpose just fine, but it still fell short of what Williams has provided in movies' past.

ABOUT THE DELUXE EDITION
The Deluxe edition has great behind the scenes shorts included, exploring the difficulties of filming, the lives of the cast, to the dance scene choreography, as well as a question and answer period with the cast and contest winners.