DIE HARD WITH A VENGEANCE
1995 / 131 min. / Rated R

The summer of 1995 was certainly an interesting one. It was a summer that truly offered everything from original films to sequels to every genre and subgenre. There were all forms of adaptations from novels to comic books to even video games. It was a summer movie season that had something from everybody. It had action, comedy, drama, and it even ranked high with indie titles like the terrific `Usual Suspects,' "Smoke" and the controversial film "Kids". It was a summer that would ultimately see the biggest shocker; 4 of the 5 Best Picture nominees were released during those summer months ("Braveheart," "Apollo 13," "Babe," and "Il Postino"). Amongst it all, however, the biggest worldwide film of that year was the third outing of the "Die Hard" franchise. Yippie-ki-yay indeed.

I make no bones about it; Die Hard with a Vengeance is my favorite Die Hard sequel. It's that good. The plot of this one centers on a man calling himself "Simon" (Jeremy Irons) who begins a reign of terror in the streets of New York City by blowing up a Department store. He then threatens to detonate bombs across the city unless Detective John McClane cooperates in a wicked game of "Simon Says". McClane, this time around, is a broken man. His marriage is on the rocks, he's been suspended from the force and he has one very bad hangover. With the reluctant assistance of a Harlem electrician, Zeus (Samuel L. Jackson), the two try to race against the clock and catch their man.

There is so much to love about this one. You have the return of director John McTiernan, you got a sharp script from Jonathan Hensleigh, and great chemistry between Willis and Jackson. Not to mention, you also have a great villain (portrayed effectively by Jeremy Irons), you get plenty of laughs, surprises and of course, no Die Hard film is complete without some terrific action set pieces along the way. In the wake of Die Hard 2 and the many films that emulated the Die Hard formula - sometimes effectively well - it's a true accomplishment that this turned out as good as it did. McTiernan - as he did with the original film - keeps an impeccable pacing that balances everything from exposition to car chases to everything in between. The one complaint that you could toss its way perhaps is that the film's ending may be a bit anti-climactic but really, who cares? It's one of a hell ride.