I've been looking forward to watching Youth Without Youth for two main reasons: Mircea Eliade, on of the more readable and thought-provoking philosophers and historians of religions - "The Sacred and the Profane", "A History of Religious Ideas" - and, it turns out, a fiction writer of meaning and substance, his work with deep roots in the very myths the author has been exploring for his entire life as a scholar and a writer of fiction. The other reason is Francis Ford Coppola, the legendary, talented, uncompromising movie maker, known to most of us for his "Godfather" trilogy. Add to the mix Tim Roth (Dominic), Bruno Ganz and the talented Alexandra Maria Lara (Laura/Veronica) a cameo appearance by Matt Damon and a VERY talented and enthusiastic support from a large team of Romanian actors and movie crew into the mix and we should expect a superior piece of cinematography. [Interestingly, Lara played Traudl Junge, Hitler's secretary alongside Ganz' Hitler in critically acclaimed "The Downfall"].

The story/plot is complex/ambiguous enough and open to interpretation - a good thing - to cover in a short review. It's probably sufficient to state that it's the story of a man, unexpectedly and perhaps undeservedly being offered a second chance at re-living his life. Or maybe what he gets is an extension or it may be life extended through a dream or a dream extended through... no good stories breaching into the fantastic and the mythical can provide actual 'answers' because they would become trivial then. But, there's the story, and then there's the movie that came out of it and this is a brief review of the movie.

Youth Without Youth (the movie) is an interesting example of what happens (in reality) when one of the world's leading movie directors takes an uncommonly rich, thought-provoking, complex tale and attempts to translate it into cinematography on a limited budget. And, since money talks loudly when making a movie, a small budget would dictate the movie's length, the talent employed, the number of takes, the extent of the 'on location' scenes, the credibility of special effects and so on. Coppola was constrained to filming most of the movie in Romania - a beautiful country and the scenes that depict the Romanian reality are great but Romania's mountains aren't nearly as grand as the Himalayas, making the parts that are supposed to take place in India not so convincing. Then, it's the accents. It's perhaps acceptable for the actors portraying Romanian characters to speak English with a Romanian accent but then Roth's English - playing the Romanian linguist Dominic Matei - is perfect. And then we see or rather hear Italians speaking Italian with a Romanian accent, Germans speaking German with what appears to be a Romanian accent... it's distracting, ESPECIALLY in a movie where 'language' plays such an important part.

The plot is quite compelling and, thanks to professor Eliade's literary talent and scholarship, extremely thought-provoking, this being that kind of movie that MUST be watched more than once and then watched again. And by the second watching, the accent distractions begin to fade into the background but more careful editing might have improved - a Nazi agent seductress with a swastikas stenciled on her bra's straps and keeping a copy of Mein Kampf under the mattress add cartoon-like elements to a story that seems to want to push the viewer into a mode where free thought and boundless speculation are encouraged.

So... a 'difficult' plot that allows itself to be interpreted and re-interpreted by the viewer almost at will, above average acting from Tim Roth (playing his characters at ages ranging from 20 to near-100 years old) and Alexandra Maria Lara as a generally uncomprehending, helpless, stunned partner. Coppola was great at making it all happen, including the actual financing of the entire project. The visuals are generally good for a movie that couldn't afford CGIs or any enhancements but some of the 'locations', especially the 'Indian' backgrounds aren't always convincing. The soundtrack which is adequate even if it lacks the usual surround sound effects that movies with a larger budget can afford and the music is sometimes inspired. After watching the movie twice I can't help but ask myself "would this gain much from the larger budget Hollywood treatment?" And my answer is "probably not" so, flawed as it is, I prefer "Youth Without Youth" the way it ended up to be - with me, the viewer, able to eventually ignore the small flaws and distractions and immerse myself into Eliade's world of myth and possibilities. In my case, reading the actual story <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0226204154">Youth Without Youth (Univ. of Chicago)</a> made it for a complete experience.

--
>> Brush your teeth, it's the law! &lt;&lt;