A story of epic proportion with extraordinary acting, breathtaking camera-work, flawless direction and excitement that never stops!  The film is a virtual Chinese "history" (recent) lesson of chilling proportions! But in many other "history lesson" films the political story gets in the way of your "being there": you watch instead of experiencing. In this film, you cannot escape "being there" for every second of the story! You experience the 3 lead characters as electrifyingly powerful archetypes: the seductive wily female who can fight and deceive but can also heal, the dominant power-driven male who knows, how to survive - albeit clumsily - in this world, and the androgyne who sees the exquisite magic and beauty of other worlds, but is dangerously vulnerable in this one.  The ideas themselves are haunting!  Can anyone forget the shocking moment when Leslie Cheung (the male "concubine") surrounded by flames, shrieks out in despair: "you have all betrayed me"?! We realize the horrifying complexity of the betrayal: the country has betrayed him, the society which raised him to the height of "stardom" has betrayed him, friends, a lover, and even strangers have betrayed him, and - worst of all - he has betrayed himself!  The strange movement of the story carrying the characters and us through historical periods in recent Chinese history acts like the movements and counter-movements of water masses in the ocean giving us the uncomfortable feeling that everyone lives in a sea of betrayal where nothing is dependable, nothing is safe. And underlying the entire story is the principle that everyone is "betrayed" by the inevitability of death, and by the inevitability of change which by its very nature is our friend at one turn, and our enemy as it turns in the opposite direction.  Many scenes burn their way into your memory, but as it is with any great masterpiece, no matter how well you remember the story, you see it each time as if for the first time, totally unprepared for what will happen. I have seen the film many times, and somehow I still react with shock at the amputation of the child's finger and the brutal training of the children early on in the film. And no matter how vividly I think I can remember the "pieta"-pose scene in which Gong Li rescues her rival by forcibly rocking him out of an opium-induced stupor, I still react with tears when I see it again. The film is filled with unforgettalbe moments which shock the soul, which somehow preserve their freshness and power whenever you revisit them. And then, there is the eerie quiet drama of the final death scene...  Underlying the masterful visual and conceptual presentation of the film is the hauntingly beautiful musical score which constantly opens the doors of your consciousness, and carries you through the film like a mighty river, moving you breathlessly and inescapably into the presence of the characters and their surroundings from the first to the last frame of the picture.  If you haven't seen this film, you have missed a great masterpiece. If you have seen it and admired it and are afraid to see what it loses in the transfer to the small screen, I can tell you that it loses nothing. The color and sound transfer are wonderful, and the film gains from the opportunity to study it and revisit its tremendous depths, again and again. And somehow, the small screen sucks you into the story as powerfully as the large one in the theater did. DON'T MISS THE OPPORTUNITY TO OWN THIS FILM!!!