I can easily see why people either love or loathe this one. Personally, it had aspects I enjoyed, as well as aspects that annoyed me, hence my middle of the road rating. In all honesty, the more I thought about it, the less I liked it, but you could also argue that the fact the film made me think about it at all after watching is a good thing...

On the plus side, there's some decent cinemetography, and sets were great. I especially liked the forced juxtaposition of drab, monotonous sets with brightly colored ones, which was especially effective in underscoring the film's theme.

As for the negative: the plot was painfully predictable -- especially if you even have a passing familiarity with 1984, Brave New World, etc. I called all but one plot point within the first 20 minutes. The script/dialogue was also hum-drum with little "good" dialogue, though the case could be made for that being intentional given the forced-emotionless milieu.

I would also consider the fight sequences to be a negative, though they actually deserve their own paragraph. Although I can see how they would be a big appeal of the film -- admittedly they were well done/choreographed within their context -- but in all honesty, I found them out of place. Having super-human moves like these make sense only within context: similar effects in The Matrix or Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon are okay because those are by definition other-worldly (a computer sim and a fantasy setting, respectively.) That is brazenly NOT the case with Equilibrium, and we are supposed to believe that someone can dodge bullets simply because of a little study on the subject. Sorry, but that's just too much suspension of disbelief for me, especially since this film otherwise purports to be grounded in "reality."

If you like films that are just fight-fests and don't really care about "plot" except as a contrived means to get you from one battle to the next, then this film will *probably* appeal to you... though it probably has too much "plot" and not enough "action" for your tastes. Personally, I like to see people using their wits (rather than their fists) to get out of sticky situations, so if you fall into a similar category, skip it. At the very least, go into it expecting a relatively brainless popcorn flick.