I must admit, I was extremely excited when I heard that Robert Wise had been given the green light to revisit this movie and "properly complete it" as envisioned in 1979.

For me, this was the first "new" Star Trek I had ever seen.  Up to that point, I'd only had exposure to the reruns of the Original Series, so getting to see this fantastic cast together again -- combined with what was then state of the art visual effects -- made for an event that equalled only the original "Star Wars" movie.  To be sure, the original cut of the movie was a bit lethargic, but even back then, the dazzeling special effects managed to pull the movie together pretty well.  Just seeing the redesigned USS Enterprise alone was worth the price of admission!

Now, all these years later, to see the movie in its "complete" form is a real treat.  All of the sound effects that were supposed to be in the original release are now there, and several special effects that did not make it into the film have been added -- including a few new shots of the Enterprise that you'll be hard pressed to pick out from the original cut.  The pacing is much better and far more dramatic, allowing both the cast and the effects to underscore what is perhaps the truest "Star Trek" adventure filmed to date.

At its core, Star Trek has always been about the positive philosophy of human discovery and this film serves that end like few others in the franchise.  The themes delved into here -- friendship, the quest for knowledge, emotionality, transcendance -- are the most basic to the series and are expressed beautifully.  Even without the extra special effects, though, this movie still looks fresh and holds up very well.

Aside from the movie, the bonus features are huge.  The audio commentary features Wise, Douglas Trumbull, John Dykstra and the late Jerry Goldsmith, whose score for this movie is perhaps the best in the ten movie franchise.  Michael Okuda provides the unique text commentary which includes many insider items on the production.  Retrospective documentaries cover the little known Star Trek Phase II series that begat the movie, as well as the production history of the movie itself.  Many of the deleted scenes from an earlier VHS release are also included.

Overall, I think this movie has withstood the test of time and is well worth viewing again.  These days, it is like a good friend that you just don't seem to spend as much time with as you would like.