Highly recommended to those who want to see background art at its zenith.  Taking one aspect at a time: 1) COLOR: Incredible!  The same dark intensity I remember from the 70mm prints.  One reviewer said the DVD color blew away the original theatrical print he saw when the film was first released.  He may have seen a 35mm print back then, because the original 70mm print I saw in 1959 was about equivalent to this DVD, but, in the theatre, the image on the retinas if all viewers in the 20 or so rows nearest the screen was much bigger -- bigger than is currently possible, while maintaining sharpness, with any home equipment.  70mm in those days was projected on a very large screen with at least some curve, and was meant to simulate the arc of vision.  In Sleeping Beauty, the effect seemed like being immersed in a dream-like, ornate, medieval world. That the color in the DVD is equivalent to the 70mm, the first DVD I can say that about, means that the restorers and transferors are to be heartily congratulated!  The marvelous color styling of Eyvend Earl comes through in all of its carefully thought out detail. There is a marvelous, rich, often dark look. There is a wider range of colors, and more variegated backgrounds, both drawn and suggested, than usual, by far. The story I heard a few years after the film was released, during a visit to the Disney studio (as a college newspaper writer) was that Disney had asked Earl (and the other background artists) for "A moving Illustration; a medieval tapestry come to life." "But Walt, medieval tapestries had muted colors!" "But Eyvend, ours won't!"  Disney, Earl, and the others later decided to go for dark, rich images, and to imitate the fancier and more colorful style of the rubrics.  While it would not be appropriate for many other films, this color is the best of the best. 
2) SOUND. They toned down the dynamics, and shaved off the deep bass!  Try turning the Bass control way up, and crank up the subwoofer, if it has a separate control.  If you have seen the film before, ask other viewers to step out of the room for a moment, and go to one of the scenes with thunder, or the climax, and make sure there is enough bass -- then go to another spot and check to see if the quiet and delicate treble music is still clear.  The escape from the castle and the events immediately following should be overwhelming, and Tchaikovsky's mad, wild, frenzied string music -- particularly the "Dance Vertigo" part of the Sleeping Beauty Ballet that they used for the thorns catching on fire, and just about the whole climactic sequence (as the prince tries to get to Aroura's castle), should really rage, and shake the floor. It did in the theater in 70mm and 6 channel stereo, and it did at my house, when I got through with it. Manufacturers often slice bass and dynamics in DVDs of films that had spectacular sound, to avoid blowing out the feeble speakers people have in their TV sets. They should either offer special "full dynamics" DVDs for those who are equipped, or just risk it. 
3) THE FILM AS A WHOLE : Using Goethe's Three Principles: a) "What was the artist trying to do?" Probably trying to make a more elaborate and beautiful than usual Disney fairy tale film. b) "How well has the artist done that?" Very well indeed, in most ways. Much of the archetypal depth of such tales is intact. There is the nurturing mother (aunt type, in the three good fairies) the incompetent parent (King/Queen/ and the good fairies when befuddled), and the feared/bad mother (you-know-who).  Jung would have liked the demonstration of what happens when you try to exclude the bad/feared parent from your consciousness. The Uninvited.  More scuttlebutt from the time the film was released: at first, Disney was going to have all the good fairies the same, and mysterious, (this was partly confirmed in the supplementary material on disk 2). This was rumored to be in response to critics who didn't like him giving the Dwarfs in Snow White, and later the Mice in Cinderella, very individual personalities.  Based on his many humorous, public comments, if this happened to be true, he might not have admitted paying attention to the critics.  When the animators complained that making the fairies the same was "no fun," he decided to go the other way, and make them very individual, and since one of them was to be named Flora anyway, he decided to make her gently bossy, like his own mother, a school teacher, who was named Flora.  So Flora in SB is Disney's mother, and Mr. Banks in Mary Poppins is his father (with a little of Walt thrown in by Bill Walsh and Don Da Grady).  I would have used a larger orchestra, and not lightened Tchaikovsky's music quite so much (but in the fiery climax the music used is untouched, except for adding a repeat!. They did a marvelous thing by turning the "Blue Bird" into a vocalise for Aurora walking into the forest! c) "Was it worth doing? " Yes. And you will see several younger animators/artists in supplementary materials saying how much it influenced them. Favorite characters: Merriwether and Maleficent, the quintessence of projected evil.
4) SUITABILITY FOR CHILDREN --- not too young, can be scary.
For more information about 70mm, try the excellent widescreenmuseum.com  &amp;  in70mm.com