The movie Doogal is an entertaining, unfailingly cute movie on the dichotomy of good and evil. Quite frankly, Doogal is the single "Best movie in the whole wide world!" If you happen to be three.

The problem, I think, with those who give this movie a poor rating are that they are basing it off of animations which are essentially aimed at older children and teenagers. If you are basing your recomendation off of Seseme Street, Dora the Explorer, Blues Clues and Mr. Rogers, Doogal ranks quite high in intellect, method and style. Compare it to the Care Bears, Smurfs or Strawberry Shortcake of my toddler years, and Doogal makes leaps toward Shakespeare.

It's adorable stop-motionesqe style and series of easily understood and realistically flawed characters is beneficial to a developing child's sense of normality. With enough action to grab attention and an easily understandable plot, Doogal has the ability to keep a child entertained, and teach them about social dynamics: forgivness, redemption, hope and deterimation are all touted without undue preachyness.

In addition, there are enough references and adult jokes to keep a parent entertained. (Lord of the Rings, Matrix, and Harry Potter, for example.)I very much doubt it was very enjoyable to watch as an older person alone. However, through the medium of a young child's vision, Doogal takes on truely a fantastic and enjoyable golden glow. All of this with the benefits of an all-star, very talented voice cast. As the mother of a young girl, I cannot recomend this movie highly enough.

I highly recomend this DVD for anyone who's watched a hundred hours of any given video. When my daughter insists, Again, on watching Doogal, I can be reasonably assured she will remain involved; and I, around my book, or in between my bouts of housekeeping, or over my sewing, am frequently smileing and laughing myself. Her grammer, understanding and compassion, and well as her personal sense of well being, are all enhanced by this movie. And, unlike almost any other given "young child" aimed program, I can swallow it without any kind of grimace.