What a great thriller! This film kept me in suspense from the start to the end. The terror and wild fear surrounding a modern society was not that far fetched. As a viewer one can compare the virus to avarice, and the oppression of the uninfected to the oppression of the foreigners and weak in society. The zombies reminded me much about Scandinavian societies, particularly about the people of Copenhagen. They had the same pattern of behavior, it was simply creepy! I believe that this film, however, convey an important message. The fact that we are vulnerable to many dangers as a species was diluted by the paramount message which cries out to stop the destruction within mankind. We, as humankind are the most destructive and pernicious species and it will demand a child like Oliver (a miracle within us) to make us all immune. I believe that such a child can be found in all world societies. Modern societies need therefore to embrace a savior like Oliver, but the sad fact is that such a child is a target in modern societies because modern societies are ruled by the jungle law. The zombies in the film are like people who adapted to the money system. Once they are infected they are doomed to decay but here the death is spiritual. The message therefore is a warning not to adapt to modern societies. The message is to resist the madness of the zombies (conformed people), hence this film is in fact a subversive film against the destruction which comes from the ignorance of the general mass. It was a brilliant film that made me think about the revolutions in each and every world society. The social harmony which the heroine dreams about is not that people will live like trees, but that people will feel like trees and love like trees. The message here is to follow love and intuition, but also to maintain a healthy mind. The danger to fall into the sleep of ignorance can be expressed by the fact that the vast majority of people simply do not give a damn about all the destruction which mankind causes. I was pleased that Oliver survived to save them all. I have found that Oliver in my society and I embraced him and followed his remedy. Have you found the spiritual guide in your society? What a great film.