Not a big fan of time travel, science fiction, so on...I'm just not.  But here is a movie that has time travel-y stuff that I actually (a)watched the whole thing and (b) would recommend.  Why?  Because the time travel is really incidental.  I mean, sure, that's the reason why things happen and everything, but you're not beaten over the head with it.

I'd like to say that this is a wonderful, so romantic love story, but then I'm afraid that some people (those sap-avoiders, often the menfolks)will avoid it.  Don't.  It's a movie that even they will like.  The secret is that, while the story would sound silly to anyone, the actors are so committed to the reality of who they are and what they're doing that it works.  What a difficult thing to pull off.

I'm not a big Marisa Tomei fan, but here she's so delightful, full of non-annoying energy and so real.  I mean, she is sort of the stand in for the rest of the audience, and she plays that disbelief well.  How often do you see a movie where the normal, rational person just buys the lunacy of another--something that a real person wouldn't do?  She has the right reactions and emotions.

It's just one of those satisfying movies, where all of the little bits and clues work and pull everything together, without making the viewer feel like they've been tricked or taken advantage of.  Humor and grace, but enough whatever it is to keep it from being a stereotypical chick flick.  The ending is actually, suprisingly moving.  I really did not think I'd see the movie at all, then thought that I wouldn't enjoy it, and then I was so glad I did.

One little note, though--if you listen to the commentary, which I usually do, it claims to be between the director and actor Vincent D'Onofrio (whom I adore in this, but I always do and am not too objective, so I'll leave that out).  Instead, it's almost a monologue by the director.  Don't know if Vincent wasn't feeling participatory that day or if the director is just particularly chatty, but I wanted more--more about playing Mr. Future and all of the stories that the character of Sam had to keep together.  Anyway.  Minor thing.

One other thing--the scene where Sam has Ruby lick his finger and then shows what the future is like is worth the whole price of the movie.