Harold Becker(Director) tried to embed a taste of suspense into the story. Well, who are to blame? Despite the fact that Travolta scored yet another Razzie nomination for Worst Actor for this film as well as "Swordfish", certainly he is not the one to be blamed. As a matter of fact, since the comeback from his career saving motion picture "PULP FICTION", his performance has been of top quality of all, standing unrivaled in a sense that he can play both a good and bad guy without causing us any awkward feeling at all. But for his performance, this otherwise predicable story wouldn't bear great value.
To top it off, many scenes or lines which were originally shown in the theatrical trailer are either missing or being changed or deleted. What happened to two guys fighting in the water or Frank(John Travolta) challeging Rick(Vince Vaughn) revealing his past in front of him? Seems they changed the story line. As skilled as he is, why on earth did Harold Becker make or even agreed about the script. He could have turned this into a real suspenseful story like "Mercury Rising" he also directed. Ironically enough, the theatrical trailer gives much more thriller than the real movie does. 
This is always the case when one tries to squeeze such thrilling essences into less than 90 minutes' film. If you take a look at "The Good Son", a suspense drama Elijah Wood and Macaulay Culkin starred in, you will find a bad example of all. One hour and a half is hardly the sufficient amount of time for true depiction of complex situations and for plot development to the point. (Provided the tight budget, it kills the movie.) And If that's the case, I can't blame Harold Becker either. He should've seen it coming, though.
To point out what is worthwhile is the portrait of the strong ties between Frank(Travolta) and Danny(O'Leary). Needless to say Travolta plays well his role as a loving father, Matt O'Leary's performance to play the charactor of an adolescent boy with the sense of uneasiness about the situations of his parents' divorce/remarriage and his struggling also deserve much attention. 
The story is about a boy witnessing his step father(Vince) killing a guy. Although nobody except his father(Travolta) believes in his story 'cause of his frequent lies, the bond between Danny(O'Leary) and Frank(Travolta) is strong. Believing in his own son, Frank becomes suspicious about Rick and starts searching for a lead to his killing. Up to here is just all-too-common in this type of story, however, the real value of the film as a suspense stems from here. Either thrilling or boring, that's where you decide.