I didn't have high hopes for this movie when I saw the opening credits.  It's not a movie I ever would have chosen to rent -- Farrelly brothers, Jack Black?  It seemed too "high school" for my tastes.  However, I was recently stuck with it on a Greyhound bus in Australia.  The buses there are equipped with TV screens and DVD players, and drivers often pick a movie or two to show on long trips.  Then the passengers are stuck listening to it for however long it lasts, whether interested (or trying to sleep) or not.  Usually, these movies are action flicks that appeal to the backpacker set but not to me, and I was prepared for this one to be of the crude comedy genre, since that also would fit into the backpacker meme.

Surprise, it is actually a romantic comedy.  As a heavy gal myself, I was uncomfortable for about 5 minutes once I realized what was going on, but was gradually won over because so much of the movie rang poignantly true with my own experience, in ways that inspire thought more than laughs.  That scene where Hal walks right past Rosemary at the restaurant, her presence not even seeming to register, is right out of real life for many heavy or otherwise not-conventionally-attractive gals.  And when she bursts into tears and runs away, well, some might think that to be overdramatic, but it's real, too.  Many of us have as our fantasy to be loved, because we never have been.  And when that fantasy seems to be shattered after one's waited a decade or two or three for it, and dared to hope that it might actually be coming true, one's reaction can be strong.

The bus driver's timing was absolutely karmic, because that is exactly the movie that I needed to see at that time.  I'd just been dissed by a friend, after I expressed disappointment that I spent over a thousand dollars to come visit him for 4 days and he wasn't making more than a couple hours a day of time for me.  Turns out that the "wow, body like a sports illustrated swimsuit model" (at 40+? I beg to differ on that...) thin girlfriend who dumped him last year decided to reconcile with him 3 hours after my plane landed in his town.  That meant he had little time to spare for me, lest he risk losing again a woman for whom he quit his job after she gave an ultimatum that it was taking him away from her too much, but who broke up with him anyway after that.(?)  Daring to take issue with his sending constant text messages to two other girls when with me, and leaving me hanging, waiting for a call from him (he wasn't answering his phone at all, let alone text messaging with others, when with that girl) for hours, and then cutting short our evening out when the girl called in a panic about a case of hives, I found myself on the receiving end of a TEXT MESSAGE ending our longtime close  friendship.  What set him off?  Apparently my strong emotional reaction to his cutting our last evening short so that he could go help the prodigal girlfriend with her hives.

Funny thing, before he saw me in person a few years ago, we chatted every day online for multiple years and yes, he used the "L" word weeks before I did.  He tried to, but could not, hide from me his disappointment when he saw me for the first time and realized I was no size 8.  After that meeting, it has been arms-length most of the time and I certainly never again heard the "L" word -- very different from the relationship we had before he saw my physical appearance as I truly am.  My inner beauty, such as the grace and real concern for him as a close friend that I displayed when he (after ignoring me for 6 months on the insecure girlfriend's request) emailed me to say he was homeless and jobless, and I treated him like the prince I see him as, putting him up in the larger of two beds in my 4-star hotel room and buying meals for both of us when I came to visit last year, and not saying "I told you so" about the ex girlfriend's poor treatment of him, is apparently overshadowed by my being a size he does not find physically attractive. Real life can indeed be as strange as fiction.

Oh, and to the person who went on and on about guys not falling for fat chicks being a form of natural selection.... the anorectic make poorer bearers of children than do the moderately overweight, as they often suffer from various nutritional deficiencies due to lowered food intake and don't have the muscular structure to support preganancy well.  (Check your cultural anthropology books.  To many cultures throughout history, a solid build has been an indication of a healthy potential mother.)  Also, size (or other physical limitation, such as the guy with spina bifida but tremendous arm strength in the movie) and physical fitness don't always correllate.  There are many women 2/3 or even half my size who can't do a 100 mile bicycle ride, or can't do the splits, but I can.

Thumbs up to this movie for telling it like it is for many (not all) not-conventionally-attractive women, and for giving those of us who still dare to dream of being loved, a reason to hope.