Timothy Olymphant is Deputy US Marshal Raylan Givens, a dedicated Marshall who is also a fast draw when he has to be. He is rotated back to take a duty posting in his home state of Kentucky -- a decision that he isn't right fond of, but soon discovers there is plenty of cleaning up to do in Kentucky that requires his own particular style.

I've watched Season One from the Pilot all the way through the Season finale. I'll straight up say that "Justified" is quality TV entertainment. Take the modern adult oriented police procedural and combine it with a classic TV western, and there's your "Justified".

The cast is strong, big time strong. Olymphant just rolls right along with the lead part, but he's surrounded by a supporting cast (and guest cast) that just immerse the viewer. Favorites include Nick Searcy as Art Mullen (Chief Deputy), a relatively easy going boss until you get him riled, and Raymond J. Barry (Arlo Givens), Raylan's father who has a big time checkered past and we as viewers still don't know it he'll ever be on the level with his son. I won't even get into the woman cast members, but suffice to say they *all* kick you know what and take big time names. "Aunt Helen" (who is now married to Arlo and played by Natalie Zea) is a tough, protective sort who brandishes a shot gun like every other episode and I'm surprised she hasn't hauled off and shot someone yet (and that one truck doesn't count, as she was at a distance.....)

The show also has its own laid back humor, which is awesome. There is such as thing as a show taking itself too seriously, and thankfully "Justified" gives us the best of both worlds.

The set Locations are a combination of modern housing, backwoods/country housing, and rough and tumble hill country - the viewer is immersed in the locations and the show through the characters as we are shown where they live.

As for the Old West TV meets modern police show, three of the main cast members were trapped in a backwoods cabin while the "bad guys" peppered it with automatic weapons fire during the Season finale...How many time have we seen that scene in past westerns, and you can't get more Old West then that! As usual, "Justified" had it's own take on the situation, and that Rocks Out!

If you like the police procedural, ensemble cast shows, or might want to check out a show centering on a modern US Marshals office in the Kentucky Hill territory, then I recommend the DVD set of the first season of "Justified".