Objectively, this season is one of the worst. The downfall of the entire series can be traced almost directly to this season and more specifically the revelation of Roseanne's troubled past in episode eleven. From that moment on, at least to me, the series lacked the same vigor. When I began to see those cracks appear in Roseanne's ample façade it was apparent to me that she wasn't the matriarch the Conner family needed. The fact that DJ, inarguably the most impotent and saccharine character in the series, was the one to push her over the edge further diminished the respect I had for her. Granted this season was seminal (in more was that one if you're familiar with episode seven "Homeward Bound") but a great deal of the story seemed extraneous to me and if I may be so bold, the entire storyline concerning Leon's addition of breakfast to the menu at the diner was a last-ditch attempt to salvage declining story-telling.

A lot of purists will tell you that this season was one of the best as it pushed the proverbial envelope for contemporary sit-coms (most notably episode 4 "A Stash from the Past"), but I want to go out on a limb and say that more important than anything good it may have done it produced problems for the series and for television in general. I refer back to my earlier point, Roseanne's declining authority in the Conner household. This series hinged in large part on the humor generated from the juxtaposition of an solid yet short-statured woman in the lead role and a buffoon, for lack of a better word, in the traditionally controlling role of patriarch. When it was revealed that Roseanne's entire personality was built on a foundation so easily manipulated I would say it set the cause for a strong female role in sit-coms back some time. Beyond that, DJ lecturing Roseanne on morality in episode 22 "I Pray the Lord my Stove to Keep" with some sort of perverted authority from his nascent Christian conversion is absolutely foolish. I point to the lack of a unified female leader in the series Friends, where every female character was simply a caricature of a timely feminine stereotype with little substance underneath. Even today, the ludicrousness of Jane Lynch's Sue Sylvester overshadows any real credibility she could bring to the television matriarch.

A crime was committed in season six of Roseanne. The culprit: a scorned writer with homosexual proclivities or a deeply disturbed loathing for female authority.  The weapon: a sloppy conglomerate of limp teenage issues and contrived personal experiences organized for writer's convenience named DJ Connor.