Quinten Tarantino has done it again. He has brought back vision and direction to what has become a dead art form. In a world of blatantly ignorant teenage sex films and mindless violence, its very refreshing to see someone creating a truly beautiful film. His vision truly dances across the screen, and every inch of it oozes Tarantino.

  This movie is the conclusion of the two part Kill Bill storyline. wheras Kill Bill Vol. 1 was full of action and gore (lots of gore.) with rather little explanation of who the Bride is or why she is doing this, Vol. 2 has much more to do with the characters themselves. In Vol. 1 when you see a character onscreen, more than likely they will be dead in the next five minutes. This gives you no real time to understand the characters, or make real connections with them, which is a shame, as dynamic characters are one of the strongest qualities of Tarantino's films. where vol. 1 does little, Vol. 2 comes through in spades. In Vol. 2, you are finally introduced to the character Bill (David Charandine), who is one of the most interesting and complex characters in years. one of the early scenes in the movie chronicles the moments immediately before the Massacre at Two Pines, and is easily the most memorable scene in the film. It shows another side of Bill, apart from the cold blooded killer aspect. make no mistake, Bill is most definitely a murderer, but he is by no means heartless.  This character is played brilliantly by David Charandine, who deserves the highest of accolades for his performance.  another character that struck me was Bill's brother Budd, played by Michael Madsen (thats right, mr. Blonde himself). Budd is a lowlife, who fights dirty and is the least elegant of the characters. despite this, you cant help but love him. He really is a poet and a philosopher once you get past the grime.

  One of peoples complaints about this film is its climax. where the first movie had an amazingly choreographed showdown in a Japanese garden, this one has somewhat of an anticlimax. I dont think im ruining it for anyone by revealing that the Bride does indeed kill Bill, as if she didnt, it would be downright aggravating for the audience.  however, the fashion in which she kills him is not particularly vengeful or driven by hate. you can tell that she has conflicting emotions, that she both loves him for who he is and hates him for what he has done. some may be angry because its unconventional, but I dont think Tarantino could have done it in any other way. bravo.

  My complaints with this movie are few and far between. a few of the scenes seemed unrealistic, to say the least. now this wouldnt be a problem, if the rest of the movie wasnt so true to life. A few of the characters perform a few actions that are unbelieveable, and not in the good sense. its slightly distracting from the genius of the film, but nothing to fret about.

  This movie is nothing short of pure genius, plain and simple.

"that woman deserves her revenge... and we deserve to die.  but then again, so does she. so we'll just see then, wont we?"

Budd