"Pollock" was one of the best movies of 2000. It is the directorial debut of Ed Harris (nominated for the Oscar for "Apollo 13" and "The Truman Show") and he put his heart and soul into this work. According to an interview, Harris spent about 10 years working on the idea for creating a film biopic of the famous Amercian painter, Jackson Pollock. The movie is full of art and it is told with a lot of heart. The cinematography is excellent; the story begins from Pollock's meeting with Lee Krasner, played by Marcia Gay Harden, and follows him through his successful and revolutionary career as a modern/abstract artist. I believe Ed Harris as a director beautifully captures Pollock's personal life, with small scenes of his short temper, his hunger for attention and respect, his support from his friends and his family and his possible mental disorder. The movie itself is like a piece of modern art- it strikes you immediately and keeps you watching. The recreation of Pollock's actual paintings is an absolute miracle, and it works magnificently for the film. As an actor, Harris gives probably the performance of his career, and he received a well-deserved Oscar nomination for Best Actor. There are moments when Harris literally paints on canvas and you could swear that he is painting exactly the way Pollock did. Marcia Gay Harden gives an equally wonderful performance as his wife, whose deep love for the talented but unstable Pollock caused her to sacrifice much, including the prospect of a child and Pollock's respect when he began an affair with a mistress at the end of his life. Harden won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress.

What started as a low-budget independent film has now become one of the best biopics of an artist. Jackson Pollock himself did not live very long- died when he was 44. But this film effectively captures the finest (and worst) moments of his short life and I believe everyone can appreciate this film. As a painter myself, I found those scenes in which Pollock is painting on canvas the most engaging. I see similarities in his style and my own sometimes. Truly, on the the best films of 200.