The 1995 film won the 1996 Academy Award for the Best Foreign Language Film.  It is described by its director as a "feminist fairy tale."  It is set in a rural farming village in the Netherlands (and filmed in Belgium) and covers a span of 40 years beginning after the end of World War II.  Antonia, 40 years old, is a strong minded, strong willed and a fiercely independent woman.  She returns to the place of her birth, a family farm, when  she is called home by her Mother who is about to die.  Antonia raises her teenage daughter Danielle and works a large farm without a husband.  While Antonia and Danielle find the town to be backward in its traditions and customs, they settle in and make a life for themselves - and they begin to leave their mark (a better one) and shape the town by taking in a retarded girl who is raped - taking in a simpleton who is abused by his family and the town children - and be-friend a farmer who is spouseless trying to raise 6 children.  Then the story moves through 2 later generations with Danielle wanting a child (but not a Father) - the birth and development of Danielle's daughter, Therese who is a math and music prodigy - and onward to the birth or Therese's daughter - a cute a charming red head who watches her great grandma leave the earth.

The film touches a number of topics including purpose of life and death (a lot on and too much on Death for my taste), religion, sex, love and marriage.  Most of the men in the story are mere appendages or brutes - and there is little understanding of some who play key roles - like Crooked Finger, a family friend (who explains Plato, Nietzsche and Schopenhauer to the young girls) - we don't know who he is, how he became a close family friend - or why he believes humanity is as dark and hopeless as he does.

The cinematography is wonderful in this film with the director capturing the beauty of the Belgium landscapes - sunsets over fields and hills - the simple, comforting farm houses and large families gathering around a large wooden table for meals and celebrations - the basic but functional architecture on the town buildings and homes.

And a NY Times reviewer captured the essence of the film - "Strong Women With a Faith in Destiny...While the film rejects and even mocks ideas of organized religion, it has a solid faith in nature and destiny, as well as in the fundamental goodness of its women. It expresses that faith with serene confidence in the cycles of birth, death and replenishment that play out during the story."