MONSTER is based on the life of serial killer Aileen Wuornos (played brilliantly by Charlize Theron), who was executed Oct. 9, 2002, after murdering at least six Florida men while working as a prostitute. In her 1992 trial, Wuornos pleaded innocent, saying she acted in self-defense to prevent being raped, a statement she later recanted. The film centers on Wuornos' life before the murders and her romantic relationship with Selby (Christina Ricci), a woman she dated while still turning tricks and killing men. MONSTER is also a story that is filled with emotion and pain as the cameras follow these two women as they attempt to create a life for themselves. As stated at the beginning of the film, Aileen has always wanted to be discovered and become a star. But instead, she is constantly standing outside of the group of her peers. She is constantly raped by a family friend and begins prostitution at age 13. She leaves home after her father commits suicides and her family disowns her. What follows is a life of pulling tricks at the side of the highway trying to hide from the cops while protecting herself from the constant threats of violence and worse, death.
There is no doubt that this film evokes an on-going controversy of the life of Aileen Wuornos. While some believed it was right to prosecute and execute her for her crimes, others wonder at what degree the impact of her environment affected her actions. To be honest this film tends to lean on the side of the latter. The harsh life of Eileen as a prostitute was thoroughly investigated, such as being beat up and sodomized with a lead pipe while being tied up after a trick went sour. Even when Aileen tries to join mainstream society by getting a real job she fails due to being a felon and having a lack of education or legitimate working history. She has no option but to return to the streets. But no matter what your judgment is, this issue was best vocalized by one her tricks when he said that he "both hated and loved hookers."
MONSTER is a film filled with tremendous acting and thought-provoking material. It is also a film that has the potential to shake you up inside and leave you unsettled for some time afterwards. Highly recommended.