My first experience with the film Barry Lyndon was in college in 1977.  A fine print was being exhibited by the university at an appropriately large theater auditorium.  Though I had been an avid Kubrick fan for several years, the generally sub-par reviews and unusually brief first run in a limited number of venues dissuaded me from seeing it upon its initial release.  Now was my chance for personal redemption!

For a solid three hours I was transfixed by the images, sounds, and rhythms of another time and place.  Scenes unfolded by way of sequences of slow zooms on static interiors and painterly detailed exteriors, always punctuated by beautifully framed wide landscapes serving as segues.  The characters' expressions, conversations, and speech patterns reflected their time and place; from the farms and fields of Georgian Ireland to continental mansions, estates, and battlefields.  Duels and battle scenes were presented as equivalent parts of a grand tapestry as opposed to high points of action in a screenplay. All were embellished with the languid rhythms of Irish pipes or the slow stately chamber music of late classicism.  Everything moved and transpired at the "speed of life" of another time.  It was wonderful!

In this film, plot is almost incidental as any sense of drama or character motivation is telegraphed by the titles and narration.  In fact, what could be called the film's climax is a maddeningly drawn-out duel set in a sequestered haybarn; hardly the stuff of your typical Hollywood epic, but certainly effective in the context of this tableaux of a "simple Irishman's" life and escapades.  In fact, the consistent deliberateness with which every movement was staged in the film helped lend a semblance of dramatic cogency.  Any sense of irony is also incidental, but for this viewer, it ultimately made the "journey" of experiencing this film that much more worthwhile.

Only one scene left me vexed and irritated: that being where the dying young son of Barry and Lady Lyndon plays "marriage counselor" to his parents with the two adults blubbering uncontrollably. Sorry, but this just reeks of incredulous sap!

This is a film to be absorbed and savored in real time, not necessarily contemplated in hindsight. Taken as such, it succeeds marvelously.  At only one point was I made overtly aware that I was watching "only a movie": the freeze-frame near the end as Barry descends from the carriage.  That moment was appropriate and well-contrived, and such was this film's grip on me.

If you care to make the journey into the world of Kubrick's Barry Lyndon, be certain you have an appropriately large screen, three uninterrupted hours, and had plenty of sleep to perhaps ward off the hypnotically slow rhythms of this historic "never-never land" to which you'll be transported.  I believe you'll be amply rewarded.

p.s.: I found nothing technically objectionable about the DVD transfer.