Let's take everything in context here first. Many negative reviewers are talking about character development and pace. This is a cultural thing. America has always been highly individualistic and as Americans, our movie characters must be "dramatic". Typical American war film has the agitation building within the group of characters and around them in the war. Our movies have that one "heroic" character, the "fatherly" one, the "coward" one, and the "douchebag" one. This movie did not build characters up in the American way. Russia has only been a non-communist country for a little more than two decades, and Russian culture is FAR more collectivist than Western cultures. Keep that in mind. The characters in this movie are built together as one, get along well, and even the drill sergeant shows some humanity. Pace wise, again, American films are bing-bang-BOOM! for the most part. This is a film from the other side of the world, based on their perspective of their own war, and takes time to develop. You want drama and explosions every five seconds, please go "entertain" yourself with Enemy at the Gates.

Instead this is a very powerful film that shows how ordinary and young men who go fight are, and shows the brutality of war. Perhaps it doesn't have guts spilling out and "mama! mama!", but half the cast doesn't walk home either. The ending isn't something we may be used to, but its pretty blunt. War is not about glory. There is brotherhood among the young men in throughout the film, and the point is to make you see their humanity and feel the waste. This is the second film I've seen on the Soviet-Afghan war (actually, if you count that Rambo film then third), and it's the best as well as the humblest. Someone negatively reviewed this and compared it to "The Hurt Locker"-> yes, one or two characters here depict the same kind of point that The Hurt Locker was making, and yes they are both films that deliver their big messages subtly. Its good for people who can ready between the lines. As for its take on war, everyone will have a different opinion of war based on what type of a person they are. No, this isn't a glory film. I'll kill it for you, its a film that looks at war as loss. If you like glory and Hollywood bombast, it's not for you.

Cinematically, it is BEAUTIFULLY shot. The only thing I could complain a little about is the music. But everything else makes this a top-notch movie and something to think about.