For many years, there was Raymond Rohauer's print of "The General," and there were one or two others. Like Chaplin's "The Gold Rush," the original elements had fallen into public domain. But where Chaplin retained a copyrighted version by re-editing, simplifying, and scoring the original, more or less creating a different movie, the chief differences between the versions of "The General" were in print quality. The non-Rohauer prints were a generation or two from the original negative, were missing a few intertitles, and were missing a few snippets of other footage.

KINO's "ultimate edition" is taken from the original camera negative and looks as fresh as today, highly appropriate for a period comedy that hasn't dated at all since its release in 1926. The clarity of detail is stunning and isn't a bit dampened by the color tinting. There are three scores to choose from: the Carl Davis orchestral score in 5.1 stereo surround; the Bob Israel score; or the Lee Erwin organ score. All of them are excellent, though the organ score may conjure-up more of a silent film era ambience than the other scores.

The extras on the second disk range from a tour of the original "General" locomotive (which Buster was denied the use of), to fascinating home movie footage showing how the traveling shots were filmed, to a montage of Buster's "railroad" sight gags from his silents. Newcomers to Keaton should enjoy the excerpts from the Fatty Arbuckle short "Coney Island" that accompanies Orson Welles' introduction to "The General." Overall, these extras are enjoyable but not essential.

One caveat: as I watched the first half of this movie, I found myself more caught up with the technical expertise and timing than I did the humor. I have seen "The General" in a movie palace with an appreciative audience in attendance; the gags still evoke big laughs. But watching this crystal-clear print on a smaller screen, I was more caught-up with the machinations than the payoffs. Even so, the genius of this movie is undiminished. It's finally available in an edition worthy of its greatness. Even if you have KINO's boxed Keaton set with its "General," this ultimate edition is a must.