I love Star Trek, and I love this movie; there, I said it.  Now, on to the criticism: "Star Trek--The Motion Picture" is too long, too monochromatic (though the restored color in this new edition goes a long way toward correcting that problem), and too slow to be set alongside the great science-fiction films of the last thirty years.  That said, one must acknowledge this film as the last gasp of old-school science-fiction filmmaking.  So much so, in fact, it really doesn't meld with the rest of the film series or the old TV show, for that matter.  (Keep in mind, much of the story thrust here inspired "The Next Generation," and that series took nearly two years to hit its stride.) 
Thus, "The Director's Edition" is a mixed blessing. The film restoration, new visual effects, and sound mix are tremendous, clarifying and enhancing a number of sequences.  But the basic story is still a bit slow and overblown to be good Trek.  Nonetheless, Robert Wise's new edit does make the best use of the original material of any cut I've ever seen, including the original release and the 1983 "Special Longer Version." 
And if anything, the lack of snappy, in-your-face visual effects (a la "The Phantom Menace" and "The Matrix") offers more pleasure today than in 1979.  After twenty-two years of ten-frame pyrotechnic shots, one finds relief in a film that takes its time to scrutinize its incredible otherwordly vistas instead of hammering them at the audience in five-second cuts.  And like many fans, I still tear up when Kirk sees the Enterprise again for the first time, especially now with the legendary starship's reflection looking back at him in this new print.
So, one might ask, should Paramount have released this to theaters?  Probably not, but "The Director's Edition" still belongs in every serious sci-fi fan's DVD library (and of course, that of every Trekker) because it's simply the last gasp of old-time Hollywood sci-fi before the Lucas-Spielberg revolution snuffed it out forever.  Furthermore, "The Director's Edition" makes a decent film even better, helping this maiden movie voyage of the Enterpirse stand on its own and not just on the reputation of its sequels.