Universal continues the ever increasing trend of re-releasing a DVD, with extended, re-mixed, or enhanced scenes.  Once again, those of us who have the original release on DVD are again plagued by the money-hungry studios that continue to release DVD editions with material "previously unreleased."  We've seen this all before.  The 2-Disc edition of "SAVING PRIVATE RYAN" (they obviously had all the material for the 90 minute behind the scenes feature for the first release...why wasn't this included?), the 2-Disc edition of "UNDERWORLD", and even the new 3-Disc Edition of the first "SPIDER-MAN".
The reason these editions were not released in the first place?  Because the studios want to wring more money out of consumers.  Never do we see an offer to trade in previous editions to upgrade.  At least THE LORD OF THE RINGS offered you the chance to either buy the regular edition of the deluxe expanded edition at the same time.
That having been said, I was once again foolish enough to plop down $20 bucks for a DVD I already own, enticed by the new features.  Granted, this is a great movie, and I would give the movie 5 stars.  But this DVD gets 1 star, in that it is nothing more than a shameless plug for the upcoming "Chronicles of Riddick."  The new introduction by the director talks not about PITCH BLACK, but about RIDDICK.  Another extra deals with the making of the PC game for RIDDICK.  They have even renamed the DVD as "The Chronicles of Riddick: Pitch Black".  Nothing in the special features has anything new on it for "Pitch Black."  It still has the same, lousy, EXTREMELY SHORT and uninformative "Making Of..." featurette.  All other features deal with "RIDDICK". Supposedly, this is the unrated Director's Cut, but I haven't really noticed anything of special mention.
Studios will continue to do this money-grabbing tactic as long as fools like me hand over the cash. PITCH BLACK certainly deserves more than this DVD edition gives.  An in depth look into the film and its characters would be great; everyone digs the anti-hero Riddick.
Thank you, Universal, for fooling me into giving you twenty dollars more of my money. If you don't already own this movie, then get it.  It's a great film.  If you already own it, learn from my mistake.  STICK WITH WHAT YOU ALREADY HAVE.