First of all, modernizing Shakespeare is a tricky thing.  Not because I'm in that camp that thinks his works are sacred and should NEVER be trifled with (Okay guys!  Will was great but he was not GOD.  If we can edit the Bible for TV, can't we edit the Bard? Hm?) but because it has to be done in a way that does not distract from the story, and it has to be done in a way so that you can lose yourself in the dialogue even though it does not "fit" with the time period.  We'll dispense with the "bad" first.  
I had several problems with this film.  Many times, the actors are saying their lines and it is *painfully* obvious they have no idea what they are talking about.  They will latch on to one word that they understand and emphasize it, destroying the whole flow of the line, and taking emphasis off the whole point of their dialogue.  There was alot of inflection and screaming of lines that seemed.....odd.  In the middle of scenes, the action suddenly speeds up for no apparent reason like we're watching on fast forward.  This is not only distracting, but pointless.  
My second problem:  Claire Danes.  Now don't get me wrong, I like Claire.  I adored "My So Called Life", but her Juliet is the most lifeless, bland, and spiritless interpretation I've ever seen.  Juliet is the most passionate female role Shakespeare ever wrote.  She is vivacious, expressive, and madly in love.  Throughout this entire film, I never see any of that from Claire.  She delivers her lines like she's telling Romeo about the weather, and when her cousin is killed by her new husband her expression is the same as it has been through the whole film, like she's contemplating taking a shower or a bath!  When Juliet wakes up and finds her husband dead, she chokes out ONE sob and a not very convincing one at that.  
Another problem I had with the casting of Claire is that I just don't feel she was attractive enough to play Juliet, especially paired with Leonardo Dicaprio.  It was a bit unbelievable that his sexy, brooding, Romeo would fall passionately in love with this rather plain, emotionless girl.  Thirdly, could someone please tell me WHY Juliet's mother speaks with a southern accent?!  And why are all of Juliet's family obviously of spanish decent when she, her mother, and her father are not?  It was also a little hard to buy that Romeo was living in a trailer in Mantua.  Did he have a velvet Elvis painting as well?  Hmm....Ah well...on to the good.  
The updating swords to guns worked rather smoothly and calling the guns "Sword 9mm" etc. was a nice touch.  The balcony scene taking place in the pool was really quite brave and it worked well.  The aquarium when they first meet was very affective and was a cute addition of "hide and go seek" as they peek through at each other, eventually culminating in Romeo knocking his face against the glass.  Mercutio being a drag queen was an ingenius idea, and definitely not one I would have ever imagined.  Very clever!  
Paul Rudd is adorable as Paris, which is a pleasant surprise considering in most versions, Paris is usually old, ugly, and almost always has a nose of a very unusual shape (I don't know why this is but it seems to be a pattern).  The costumes at the party were very cute.  Romeo as a knight and Juliet as an angel.  Not very original, but cute just the same.  The love scene before Romeo leaves for his exile is sexy but tastefully done.  
Leonardo Dicaprio plays Romeo as a misunderstood James Dean-esque rebel with a mysterious aura about him.  Even by the end of the film, it feels we don't truly know all there is to know about Romeo.  This brings a freshness to the character and gives him some more depth, (although Dicaprio *should* have spent more time learning to understand his lines.  He is just as guilty of overemphasizing incorrect words as the others are).  The ending of the film is done lavishly which adds to the inevitable climax.  Dicaprio does a good job of conveying his pain and loss over the "death" of his wife.
The ending of this film is a bit different from others in that it has gleaned much from the story of R&J which Shakespeare based his play on rather than the play itself.  This adds an even more tragic somberness to the ending (as if it needed it!) which is an unexpected, yet effective addition.  The music chosen and scored for this film is all quite good.  The use of Radiohead's "Talk Show Host" as Romeo's theme music fits Dicaprio's moody version of the character to a tee.  The piano muscled "Kissing You" is a lovely song and fits well as the background to the aquarium scene.  
All of that said, this film is worth watching, especially if you enjoy Shakespeare.  It has many things that work, and many things that do not, but it is still enjoyable.  However, if you wish to see a more passionate and conventional version of Romeo and Juliet, I still recommend the 1969 Zeffirelli version with Leonard Whiting and the incomparable Olivia Hussey.  For me, it sets the standard to which all versions of Romeo and Juliet will be compared.