One of the usual fan complaints about Sailor Moon's dubbed counterpart is how much of the dramatic tension winds up being filtered out of the story. Now I for one belief that children are quite capable of handling a few more  dark themes than they're given credit for and it's really the parents who  find a shot of Sailors Venus and Uranus getting slammed into an iceberg all  too disturbing, but that's my own frustration with the editing cuts in the  S movie. But what the dub lacks in drama, it typically makes up for in  humor. More than whatever her current final attack is (one that will  probably kill her if she uses it) our english Sailor Moon's most powerful  weapon is name-calling. She does it so well that I find myself missing the  trait in Usagi when I watch the sub. Unfortunately, the script writers are  under the impression that this quirk applies to every character. It worked  with Ann in the Doom Tree series, but it doesn't work with the Snow Queen.  She shouldn't have that much personality. On top of that, her voice is  immature sounding. Particularly when she turns to the camera to deliver her  exposition, the only way the dialogue would have worked is if she had  spoken the words...well...cold hearted. As it turns out, her english voice  actress tries too hard to perform in the role and sadly, it proves  counterproductive. This isn't to say that the dub does everything off the  mark. Himeko and Kakeru's voices work quite well, to the point where I  wished they could have been reoccurring characters. In fact, the entire  subplot involving Luna (with Jill Frappier in some of her finest moments)  truly is the strength of the video, and I'd suggest it's worth buying based  on that alone. Try not to laugh too much at Luna's Ed Wood inspired remark  about a human and a cat being soul mates because her next words are some of  the most heart felt in the series. I'm glad I bought Hearts in Ice, however  it's with no small amount of emotion that I submit I docked my rating a  whole star simply because of Pioneer's treatment of the outer senshi.  Everything was wrong. The voices weren't deep enough, Neptune needs to be  more feminine, Uranus needs to be less feminine, they're not supposed to  say the names of their planets in their attacks, and why on earth couldn't  Pioneer get the time honored Uranus-Neptune transformation music?  "Mini Moon" can be swallowed with a mere flinch. Sanctuary from  the snow dancer's Xena wail is a mute button away. But the most  unforgivable blasphemy is the Sailor Pluto does not, I repeat NOT scream  her attack. How could Pioneer not realize this cardinal rule of the  character? Last I heard, Dic was planning to dub Sailor Moon's third  season. In that case, I pray to God they don't use this portrayal as their  basis for the outer senshi. Anybody have Dic's address?