My five stars is for the quality of work done in restoration.  The film remains badly flawed, but is now followable all the way thru.  The highs are VERY HIGH, but without Peckinpah to deal with the editing EVER after he turned his first still- pretty-rough cut over to the studio, even the theatrical release couldn't really be called "his".  The first half-hour-to-fortyfive-minutes move wonderfully and were then very fine and must now be even more intact than they were.  The action sequences were and are masterful.

  I've loved and loathed Major Dundee since 1964, when I first saw it as a kid.  There is now enough there that I can be reasonably confident in saying it would never have shown us  the taut mastery that Peckinpah developed.

  My feeling also is that Peckinpah would not have liked the new score.  It is moodier than Amphitheatrof (whose work the director didn't like), but loses all the subtantial good that the original did add:  the jauntiness that Peckinpah surely knew he needed in important places, and an understanding of how to score big action sequences in at least a traditional way. The action sequenceces do need music, and where Caliendo puts his stuff under action sequences,it doesnt work nearly as well. The shockingly short and brutal ambush at the river crossing with the old score is still spectacularly vicious and wonderful.  The best I can say for the new score is that either the composer or SOMEBODY had the wonderful sense to leave silence under the scene in which Ben Tyreen raises his chained arms realizing he will soon be free of them.  Amphitheatrof's swooping orchestra took away from really fine acting and direction, gave the audience a single emotion to feel and destroyed  the subtlety of what goes on.  But I expect Mr Caliendo will not be comforted as a composer to know somebody feels that composing nothing at all is his best work on a major restoration.  The DVD quality is wonderful, and the producers had the fine sense and conscience to give viewers both and the option to watch the film with either.