At last, with comic book adaptations, Hollywood is starting to get it right. The first, but hopefully not the last, movie to feature Marvel's merry mutants benefits immensely from a superb cast, an enthusiastic director, and an intelligent, thoughtful approach that makes this more than just another "superhero" flick.  In the near future, more and more people are revealing themselves as "mutants" - genetically altered people with superhuman powers. As the US government considers passing Senator Kelly's (Bruce Davison) Mutant Registration Act, two extremely powerful mutants ponder their species' fate. Telepathic Professor X (Patrick Stewart in the role he was born for) believes in teaching mutants to develop their powers for the good of mankind, whereas his old friend Magneto (Ian McKellan) wants simply to wipe the human threat out. Caught in the middle of all this are Rogue (Anna Paquin), a young mutant with energy-sapping powers, and Wolverine (a superb Hugh Jackman), an older, battle-hardened mutant.  And so the scene is set for great fun and action, as well as far more character development than you'd usually expect from this sort of film (you certainly didn't get it in Batman and Robin!). Thanks to Bryan Singer for showing Hollywood that you can make great superhero films, you only need to respect your material.  The DVD transfer of this excellent movie only serves to make you appreciate it that much more, with a great attention to both visual and audio detail. In fact, it is one of the best quality DVDs on the market! The extras, whilst not many in number, are certainly fun to sift through more than once. The "Mutant Watch" featurette is a lot of fun, and much better than the standard "Making Of" documentaries that get churned out. The character designs hint at hero and villain outfits that seem much better than the costumes that ended up onscreen (there is also a hidden section that looks at two unused characters, Beast and Blob), as does the production designs (ultimately, I believe that it was Fox Studios capping the budget that made the director rethink his approach). Also of note is Hugh Jackman's great screen test for Wolverine, which makes you wonder why he wasn't even considered initially.  All in all, great value for money. Roll on X-Men 2...