Nora Ephron, the director of "Sleepless in Seattle," brings us this zany Christmas comedy "Mixed Nuts."  It stars legendary comic man Steve Martin as the operator of a suicide prevention hotline, Lifesavers, in Venice Beach, California.  It is Christmas Eve and he has just received an eviction notice from his landlord; his girlfriend has also called to say that she has taken the advice of her psychiatrist and broken up with him.  Martin's co-workers include lonely Rita Wilson who fears she will spend the rest of her life always in the grocery store's Ten Items Or Less express lane and Madeline Kahn who keeps trying, but is constantly failing, to reach her dead husband's relatives whom she dislikes, and vice versa.

  An assortment of mixed nuts descends upon the hotline in search of companionship.  There is the transvestite, played surprisingly well by Liev Schreiber of "Scream" trilogy fame; he is surrounded by a large family but none of them understand him, proving that you don't have to be alone to feel lonely at Christmas.  His dance scenes with Martin are hilarious.  (Martin is a great dancer.)  Juliette Lewis ("National Lampoon's Family Christmas") is a pregnant friend whose ex-con husband, Anthony LaPaglia, is a jobless loser dressed in a Santa Claus outfit; he keeps attempting suicide.  Rob Reiner is a harried veterinarian who treats LaPaglia for a cut on his forehead.  Adam Sandler is an imbecile who composes and sings silly songs while accompanying himself on his ukulele.  Meanwhile, there is a serial killer, the Seaside Strangler.  Could it be one of the strange assortment of odd characters?

  "Mixed Nuts" has a great cast of old pros and rising stars.  It has bizarre, morbid humor of the type found in the National Lampoon movies.  It teaches us that love and togetherness are very important to have on Christmas Eve.  No one, no matter how crazy they are, wants to be alone during the holidays.  "Mixed Nuts" is a great movie to get one in the mood for celebrating the holidays.  It has an upbeat ending that will warm your heart.