In the last year I have grown less and less fond of Tom Cruise and all the shinanigans sorrounding his (not-so) personal life. So as much as I try not to let my like or dislike for an actor influence my prejudice on a film, before watching this for the first time, I certainly had my doubts. However my somewhat low expectations of this movie, or rather Tom Cruise in this movie, were wiped away almost immediately. The wit, the humour, and the underlining core of this film are so universal and strong, and even I have to admit that I was blown away.

Jerry Maguire (Cruise) is a hot-shot employee for one of the biggest sports agencies in the world. But despite his professional success, emotionally he is an empty and confused man questioning his place and worth in "a cynical world." When he publicly expresses his war with life in a memo, he is rudely fired by the company. The difficult position he is left in leads Jerry to become an independant agent to his sole loyal client, footballer Rod Tidwell (Cuba Gooding Jr.). His personal life blossoms as well, with the inclusion of Dorothy (Renee Zellweger), a single mother, who helps him overcome his intamacy issues and becomes his platform of inspiration.

The film's screenplay is outstanding. Filled with bright, quirky lines, including the memorable "show me the money," and "you had me at hello." A film is made or broken on the quality of the dialogue, and "Jerry Maguire," is filled with a zest and passion that is not found in many films. The script carried out by the characters really draws you in and makes you laugh out loud at one time and makes feel like crying at another time.

And ofcourse, a script can never work without the talent of the actors who bring it to life. As I mentioned earlier, I am certainly not Tom Cruise's biggest fan, but even I have to admit that he was perfect for this movie. Despite what you might think of him, he is a talented actor who carried the role of Jerry beautifully, and I DO believe he deserved his Oscar nomination. Renee Zellweger, a relative unknown at the time of this film's release, is charming as Dorothy. She's got a particular innocence and purity about her that was a great relief, seeing as the film is based around the idea that money is the only thing that brings happiness. And speaking of money, the performance given by Cuba Gooding Jr. as the "show-me-the-money" football player is simply flawless. He is absolutely HALARIOUS, and the secret ingredient that makes this film work so well. Every scene with him in it is so much fun to watch, and I am so glad he was awarded with the Best Supporting Actor Oscar.

"Jerry Maguire" is ironic, in that is promotes the idea of "love conquers all," with the backdrop of the multi-billion world of American football. It's a beautiful contrast, that at the end of the movie really accentuates that without love at the core of something, there is nothing. I really loved this film, and I came away feeling truly happy. It's a feel-good romantic comedy, with a hint of drama that's full of wit and charm. DON'T let your frazzled opinion of Tom Cruise deflect you from this film; "Jerry Maguire," will strike a chord in every way.