What can I say...I've been watching these movies since I was four years old, and every time I view them, I notice something new.  This is due to the fact that all the INDY movies are so rich and full of cinematic mastery it  is hard to comprehend during one viewing. Raiders is jam packed with  memorable scenes, that have stayed in the mind of its viewers ever since  its original theatrical release in 1981.  Who could forget the opening  bolder sequence, or the shoot out in the cantina...or my favorite scene  inperticular, the truck chase sequence. All of which have been presented  here in their original theatrical aspect ratio of 2.35:1, thus preserving  the image as it was seen on theater screens, while at the same time,  revealing the director, STEVEN SPIELBERG's artistic integrity.  Never  before has this film been available in this format, and the picture quality  has been greatly increased.  One of the many unforgettable aspects of  Raiders is its brilliant sound design, courtesy of STAR WARS sound designer  BEN BURTT, for which he won an academy award.  Listen carefully to the  truck chase sequence; at a certain point, one can decipher the sound of a  lion roar as the truck switches gears, a mere stroke of genius.  MUSIC...what  would this film be without JOHN WILLIAM'S swashbuckling score...the raiders  march alone sets the mood, and the choir utilization for the biblical ARK  OF THE COVENANT is yet another stroke of genus.  I could talk forever about  this film, as you can probably tell...but please, bare with me.  The  cinematography in this film is outstanding.  Spielberg chose to open the  lenses of the cameras a little more, to make the scenes in the desert seem  blazingly life-like.  Few directors today have the ability to pull off such  a brilliant effect.  Film editing by Michael Kahn is incredible, and Kahn  definitely deserved the academy award he won for this picture.  Now,  sound wise, until this film is released on dvd, I have yet to hear a better  version of this mix; especially the opening sequence, in which bass is  delicately balanced, and the crumbling of the idle temple fills the entire  sound field...Not bad for vhs.  I'm sure the THX process has a little  something to do with it, hahahaha.  The cantina gun fire is also quite  effective, and overall sound is superb.  Well, lets see, how much  better can you get?  A movie with a story by George Lucas, and directed by  Steven Spielberg; not a bad combination if you ask me.  Screenplay was also  brilliantly penned by Ann Arbor's own Lawrence Kasden.  (EMPIRE STRIKES  BACK, RETURN OF THE JEDI, THE BIG CHILL.)  All and all, RAIDERS hits it on  every element, nominated for 11 academy awards, including best picture.  This vhs edition is the best version of the film available, and if you're a  true INDY fan, you'll definitely buy this to tied you over while waiting  for the dvd release!  Don't miss the just as entertaining sequels, TEMPLE  OF DOOM and LAST CRUSADE.  HIGHLY RECCOMMENDED!