Back a few months while browsing Amazon, I came across the first season of the X-Files.  Now, I've seen the movie, and I've seen a handful of X-Files episodes, but it was not something I ever regularly watched.  It was one of those situations where I wanted to get into it, but figured I was a few seasons too late to do so.  Also I gathered that the story has been ongoing for years, and I have probably missed out on a lot of story plot.  
I figured, what the heck, I'll start with the first season and watch everything in order.  I plunked down the hundred or so dollars for the box set and began my journey into the X-Files.  I was pretty happy with the first season.  Nothing all that special, but enough to hold my interest.
This all changed when I saw the finally of season one.  After the episode was over, I ran to the box set, threw the 7th DVD disc in the drive only to realize there were no more episodes, and that was the season cliffhanger.  Needless to say, I was drooling for more.
Jumping ahead 6 months later, the second season was released and I rushed to order it.  Four days later, the second season box set somehow materialized onto my kitchen table.  I thought it may have been Aliens, or some secret government experiment, but my roommate reassured me that he answered the door to our regular (that's what he thinks) postman and he indeed put the DVDs on the table.  
All I can say about season two is "Amazing".  There are so many episodes that left me sitting in my chair, jaw dropped open, and uttering "wow".  Sure, there are a few weak stories thrown in, but man...there's some real treats in this box set.  Sleepless, Duane Barry, Ascension, One Breath, Colony (Second Favorite X-File I've seen), End Game (First Favorite X-File I've seen) are all riveting.  Tonight I watch Humbug and hope to have the season finished by the weekend.  
The quality of the DVDs overall is great.  There are a few "bad audio moments" but the picture is crisp and the box set itself is wonderfully put together.  
 I already can't wait for season 3. :)