I know i made a review of Alice before but I just wanted to say the cast alone makes this dvd a must-buy.
I believe the dvd will be released in March 2010.

So I never really got into the whole Alice in Wonderland story, to tell the truth, I was actually terrified with the story as a child. Anyways Alice is a wonderful and refreshing take on the well known classic and I was shocked at how much I enjoyed it. I watched it at about midnight, skimming through the channels until I came across it and for some reason I was hooked at once. Alice is portrayed as a kickass fighting heroine, that's quite different and the story/plot was so exciting and new, I don't want to give it away but there is some interesting bits added to the original.

Summary: So this Alice is a martial arts butt-kicker. She meets Jack who slips her a ring and once Jack is abducted Alice follows, thus leading to her falling down the "rabbit hole" or the looking glass. Once there she meets Hatter who wants to help her find her way home. As she learns more about Wonderland and their emotion-extracting economy, her life becomes endangered when the Queen of Hearts orders for Alice's capture. The Queen ultimately wants the ring Alice recieved from Jack to power the looking glass. Along Alice's journey to find Jack, she also meets The White Knight who accompanys the duo to the Casino(where the captured humans are extracted) while also running away from the Queen's men: White Rabbit and the Suits. Quite an adventure.

Okay back to characters: I must say the acting is top-notch, so great for SyFy to get these incredibly talented actors. First Caterina Scorsone as Alice is amazing and this is my first time watching her, but I am really impressed by her acting. The White Knight(Matt Frewer who is another great star who works perfectly in Alice) is there for some comical parts, and very fun to watch too. Kathy Bates as the Queen, I get what I expected knowing her previous work. The whole cast, Tim Curry, Phillip Winchester, Colm Meaney, etc. is great but the one person that MADE it for me is Andrew Lee Potts as the Mad Hatter. Cute, funny, adorable and most of all he is the one character you can sympathize with (also watch him in the sci-fi show Primeval!) I mean he practically steals every scene he is in. Pott's Hatter is so likable opposite of Scorsone's skeptical Alice that I would watch this just to see the two of them and their &lt;spoiler> romance! He really surprised me with his fun cool side yet it was his sensitive and "mushy side" that just left me wanting more. Now I am curious to see Johnny Depp's Mad Hatter...

The SyFy series Tin Man, was a similar miniseries that I saw a few years back(not sure how long) but I really enjoyed the show and the concept behind it. Alice is much like Tin Man, since it is by the same people, but I think it is slightly better and less gloomy.

The cinematography is also perfect, many beautiful scenes but some might have something to say about the CGI. It kind of bothered me that the CG wasn't too amazing but considering it is SyFy, that is just a very miniscule issue and never took away from the show itself. The small attention to details is exceptional too, if you pay attention you can tell how amazing the level of depth is- from the clothing to the buildings.

Basically the show is fun, bizarre, unique and a truly fantastic adventure. I highly recommend a watch.
One last note: the ending ROCKED! and did I already mention how awesome Hatter was....