I've never read any of the Earthsea books, but I was really excited when I heard that Studio Ghibli was doing a midieval European fantasy film with dragons and magic spells and knights. (I mean, just look at the cover! That dude's talking to a dragon!) However, upon viewing this movie I found it to be pretty boring.

This isn't to say it's not enjoyable--I loved some of the characters and the world that they reside in, but there's just very little story and a whole lot of nothing going on. There's not much action, although Arren does get into a fight once or twice (he doesn't unsheathe his sword until the end, though). Furthermore, most of the scenes have this dreamlike quality to them where everyone speaks in gentle or solemn tones with little emotion (at least in the English dub); it's great voice acting, but it makes for some pretty monotonous dialogue.

The plot is okay, I suppose, but it lacks soul and flavor and by the end I found myself questioning what exactly was going on. The main character kills his father in the first few minutes, but for the rest of the film he doesn't do much but mope (and they never really explain why he did it). The villain is a weird androgynous man in a dark tower who is clearly evil because he tortures people and trades slaves, but is so dispassionate that I find it hard to dislike him--he has no character. The character I really liked was Ged the wizard. He was very wise and fatherly, but as I said before his voice got to be monotonous from time to time.

While Tales From Earthsea isn't a bad movie by any means, I'd have trouble recommending it to anyone--it's just too boring and the plot is too weak. Also, while the animation is good, it lacks the spectacular "wow!" scenes that we've come to expect from a Studio Ghibli film. The dragons are barely even in the movie, too. From what I understand, it doesn't follow any of the Earthsea books either, although the names of some of the characters are present. It did, however, get me interested in reading them and I just ordered the first book. I also watched the SyFy minisieries of Earthsea and boy was that fun!

So the final verdict is that you probably shouldn't buy it unless you're really trying to complete your Studio Ghibli collection. Try renting it first, I guess, but rent another movie at the same time so you won't end up wasting your whole evening. I mean, I'm actually considering selling my copy of this movie soon.