Speaking on the behalf of all sci-fi fans who watched Space 1999 on its initial broadcast run, Gerry Anderson deserves our respect. With "Supermarination" like "Captain Scarlet," "Secret Service" and the "Thunderbirds," he raised the caliber of Saturday morning TV fare above the usual, two-dimensional animated cartoon.

With "Space 1999" he initiated a new renaissance in science fiction making it respectable with a broad appeal to audiences young and old alike. Not since "Star Trek" which made its debut in 1966, has there been another science fiction series on TV that has made a significant impact or has been more widely recognized.

To compare the two series would be unfair with Star Trek now having now reached the proportions of "epic" on par with the Illiad and the Odyssey in the realm of science fiction let alone the franchises the series has spawned. What detracts from the quality of Space 1999 is not the SFX (expertly orchestrated by Brian Johnson) or the quality of the acting from the leads, but rather, the implausibility of the plots. One tries very hard to enjoy Space 1999 like I have, but I like my science fiction with large dollops of science, and we live in an age where audiences have even a rudimentary understanding of physics and space travel. Sadly, this is the Achilles Heel of Space 1999; ridiculous plots at times matched with dull scripts with empty plots that approximate the size of a black hole.

The first season is generally considered the stronger of the two: the second noted for the addition of Maya (called a "Mr. Spock rip-off" by fans of Roddenberry), a resident of Moonbase Alpha and an alien that can morph into any living organism--an interesting, if wild stopgap to save the sagging ratings of the series at the time. Not surprisingly, many people are divided about Space 1999: people either hate it or love it.

This set, includes interviews, some outtakes, a special feature with SFX expert Brian Johnson, commercials, etc. All in all, Space 1999 was significant because it illustrated the true potential that lay in science fiction paving the way for "Star Wars" and other epics that would follow.

Those interested in learning more about Space 1999, should pick up a copy of John Kenneth Muir's book-length study of the series, "Exploring Space 1999"--a fascinating read if you wish to know more about the series, its impact, and eventual demise.