I wouldn't have bothered to write this if not for the fact that the only other reviews seemed to be positive. I still can't believe what I see. Folks, this movie is bad. I mean, not just "gee, that was sub-par" bad, but the kind of bad where I actually found myself, days after watching it, letting my mind wander and consistently coming back to "WOW, that was a really, really bad movie!"
 Ok. Now that I've begun to express my opinion, how 'bout some reasons:
 Effects: With the possible exception of some of the dragons, I've seen video game cutscenes with more realistic CG than that. 
 Acting: Two words: Marlon Wayans. Well, actually, I'd leave it at that except for the performance of Jeremy Irons, who I am led to believe is a good actor. Not here. Don't believe me? Capitolize on one of the only reasons I can think of to actually rent this thing and watch his "acting" in the first scene. I was on the floor laughing. 
 Story: The love story was the most standard, unimaginative, "oh yeah, we should probrably have the protagonists fall in love" subplot I have ever seen. Apparently some people were actually surprised when the poor, but fiesty boy and the snooty, aristocratic girl fell in love but I really can't fathom why. Was it because they hated each other for the first half-hour? Wow, didn't see that coming. As for the rest of the story,it looks like someone took 10 good movies and had them stapled them together by a blindfolded octopus. The quest, the initial defeat, the loss and gaining of friends, the ultimate victory. It's all there, but all done horribly. And then, to cap it off is a "surprise" ending that left everyone I watched it with immediately and unanimously saying "...WHAT????".
 On the positive side, there are two good things I can say about this movie:
 1. Tom Baker, of Dr. Who fame, is in it and, thankfully, gives one of the only good performances.
 2. It makes me look forward to renting Battlefield Earth so I can compare the worst Sci-Fi movie ever with the worst Fantasy movie ever.