Like most folks, I had very high hopes for this film, definitely after the loosely connected 3-movie story arc preceeding it.  This movie didn't have the punch nor leave the audience with the typical satisfactory feeling afterwards.  I despised the use of an otherwise talented and beloved supporting cast for comical relief.  Instead of allowing the secondary characters a real chance to run, it resorted to sight gags and pretty much made them look like buffoons, and Shatner clearly didn't rectify the more-embarrassing moments.  However, that being said, the film show several wonderful moments..:

1) LOVED the campfire scenes both at the beginning and end, effectively bracketing the film's story in a poignant way.  Why couldn't you have had moments like these for the secondary characters??? ~ They are seasoned ACTORS for heaven's sake..!  After how many movies and episodes, not only are they relegated to remain as secondaries, but treated with even less respectful screentime. Again, warm moments you WISHED they did more on the big screen ~ Taking time out to EXPLORE these characters and what makes them tick together, after all these voyages.  Without families, who have they really become..?

2) Loved the horseback and wilderness scene's overall.  Gave the normally 'sterile' starship crew a more beneficial and agreeable backdrop to work against.

3) Despite the lack of good effects, the Kirk/Spock interplay at the end was excellent ('Spock, not in front of the Klingons...').  It helps to make up for the heavy-handed 'I-need-my-pain' message you had to slog through.

The Sybok character was entirely miscast and misdirected..  Who would believe he would be a Vulcan, even Spock's half-brother, raised by Surak...?  Terribly chemistry between him and the stars.  Granted he was no Khan, but a more cerebral and reserved, less jovial approach would have made for better and conflict with depth.  Instead we're treated to some painfully embarrassing exchanges.

All in all, some excellent, warm screen moments found nowhere else in this franchise, but try not to wear out your fast-forward button.