I was thrilled to see that they had finally released Masada on DVD. Masada is probably the best miniseries ever made and is simply fascinating to watch. I'm one of those who plunked down a pretty penny to get the 4-tape VHS boxed set some years ago and it has been heavily watched since then. Why it took the powers that be 20 years from original release to get around to putting the complete miniseries on VHS is beyond me, and now it has been a further 7 years beyond that to get the DVD release to market. The less said about the savagely cut 2-hour video tape release the better; it is not even worth consideration.

It is probably pretty obvious that I am a huge fan of this miniseries. The acting by Peter O'Toole and Peter Strauss is a sight to behold. The production design is very impressive for a made-for-TV endeavor, with excellent costumes, sets, props and even location. And the music is just wonderful. So I was pretty disappointed that the DVD release was not better than it is. Apparently, a third-party company called Koch has released this (not the company who made it or released the VHS tapes) and they did a very bare-bones job of things.

The DVD menus are simple and static. The scene indexes are not even numbered or titled and the chapter stops are not set up according to scenes but according to original commercial breaks, so you end up with very few (but very long) chapters. There are no extras whatsoever, not even subtitles (which should be a requirement and not an "extra").

Worst of all is that the makers of this DVD screwed up on Part IV of the miniseries and cut off one scene 45-60 seconds prematurely. I had noticed while watching the DVD that the commercial breaks seemed rather abrupt. On the VHS tapes, when the show went to commercial break, the music and video would do a nice fade-out, there would be a 3-4 second gap of silence and black, and then the show would pick up again. On the DVD, they seem to have attempted to edit out these 3-4 second gaps which results in very abrupt transitions from the end of the previous scene and the beginning of the next. In one case, as mentioned above, it looks like they got a bit too overzealous (no pun intended) and not only chopped out the 3-4 second gap but also the previous 45-60 seconds of the prior scene.

I saw mention of this in some comments on another reviewer's post where they were not sure if it was a disc flaw or not. I checked my disc and, sure enough, they were correct. Here is what I wrote in response to their comments about this matter:

[BEGIN QUOTE]
Confirmed. I've just finished watching my new copy of the DVD of Masada and the scene in question is definitely prematurely cut off. It occurs at 44:02 into Part IV. Peter O'Toole is on horseback discussing the options of attack with his men, one of whom is explaining how burning the wooden walls could literally "backfire" on them due to the fickle winds. He is detailing how the massive block and tackle that were used to haul the siege tower up the ramp are only rigged to go in one direction and so lowering the tower back down a bit to prevent it getting burned would not work. In the midst of these details, the scene suddenly cuts (and the chapter also advances from 4 to 5) to the soldiers on the top of the tower firing flaming arrows at the walls.

Gone is what I would estimate to be about 45-60 seconds of further discussion and Peter O'Toole's famous "Burn it!" line with fade-out for original commercial break at that point. Note, that this is not a glitch in the DVD as the time progression does not leapfrog forward from 44:02 to a further timespot as all too frequently happens on DVDs these days. This had to have been an editing/encoding error and the scene (or at least the last 45-60 seconds of it) is simply missing from the disc - not skipped over by a disc glitch. I don't think this was a "deliberate cut" for time constraints or any reason like that; I think it was just poor quality control. Very disappointing...looks like I'll have to hang onto my copy of the 4-tape VHS set.
[/END QUOTE]

After going back and checking the same spot on my 4-tape VHS set, what occurs in that missing 45-60 seconds is Peter O'Toole further soliciting "any other suggestions" from his men. When he gets no response, he says, "I don't blame you. If I had a suggestion, I'd keep it to myself, too." He then throws the torch to one of his lieutenants and yells, "Burn it!" Fade to commercial break.

The print looks somewhat sharper than the VHS tapes but I think that is just the DVD medium. Otherwise, I'd say it is identical to the VHS tapes, with even some distinctive dirt marks that seem to be the same on both the VHS and DVD editions. I could live with this (as the print is not bad at all considering) if it weren't for the missing portion of that scene in Part IV.

If Amazon allowed us two sets of stars to review each item (one for the content and one for the medium/packaging), I would give the film 5 stars no question, as it a stupendous production, but I would have to give the DVD only 1 star for its bare-bones nature, no attempt at all to improve or remaster the print or get a better one, the utter lack of extras and the missing scene, which is just ridiculous.

If you don't have the 4-tape VHS set (or can't find it and/or don't want to pay an exorbitant amount for it, as it is rather hard to obtain now), by all means get the DVD. Masada is worth it even with the missing scene. Just prepare to be a bit disappointed in the DVD's execution.