THE ENFORCER is not the best of the Dirty Harry films, but it's not a bad romp through Frisco, either. Unremittingly brutal and violent, it also shows more heart and character-complexity than its predecessors, and arguably has the best acting-chemistry of any entry in the series.

In DIRTY HARRY (1971), Clint Eastwood's man-alone detective, Inspector Harry Callahan, was pitted against a vicious serial killer. In MAGNUM FORCE (1973), he crossed revolvers with a gang of ruthless vigilante cops. But by the time THE ENFORCER came round, in 1976, terrorism - domestic and international - had become the public's principal anxiety; so it's not surprising Dirty Harry was summoned to give it a sound thrashing with his .44 Magnum.

THE ENFORCER opens in true D.H. style, with two brutal murders, as a domestic terrorist group called the People's Revolutionary Strikeforce steals a gas truck, which they soon use to rob a weapons warehouse of a huge supply of machine guns and rocket launchers. The robbery is detected by Harry's sometime partner, the tubby but tough Inspector DiGorgio (John Mitchum), a veteran of the two previous films, who gets a Bowie knife in his liver for his troubles. Enraged by the loss of yet another partner, Callahan sets out to hunt down these killhappy terrorists, a motley crew of idealists and mercenary-types led by the psychopathic Bobby Maxwell (DeVeren Brookwalter). Unfortunately, he has to deal with the constant interference of his boss Captain "criminals have rights too!" McKay (Bradford Dillman), and his new partner, a newbie female officer named Kate Moore (Tyne Daly). Maxwell's gang terrorizes the city for a time, before finally electing to kidnap the mayor (John Crawford) and hold him for ransom. This being a Dirty Harry movie, the City naturally agrees to pay the ransom. Funny thing, though; making a deal with the City doesn't protect you from Harry. He makes his own deals, and he makes them with a Magnum.

THE ENFORCER has its problems; it isn't as visceral as DIRTY HARRY or as visually pleasing and well-constructed as MAGNUM FORCE, and the villains are bit generic, but it has a lot of enjoyable moments. Harry's shall we say...creative...solution to a liquor store holdup, his verbal evisceration of an annoying feminist from City Hall, his rage over bureacratic inefficiency ("I'm comin' down there in five minutes, and you'd better have those files ready, you pencil-pushing son of a ----!"), his ten-minute foot chase of a suspect (that ends up interrupting a porno shoot), his flabbergasted reaction to being assigned a female partner, his thrashing of a militant priest ("I ain't got time to argue religion with you, boy!") and the anatomically uncomfortable suggestions he continually makes to Captain McKay are all classic D.H. To top it off, Eastwood has great chemistry with Tyne Daly, with Albert Popwell (who plays different roles in four different D.H. films), and with Dillman, too.

Beneath all the shallow charges of "fascism" that this series had to endure from witless clods who couldn't define "fascism" if you gave them three years to do it, is the simple truth that Harry simply represents The Man Who Is Fed The F Up And Ain't Gonna Take It No More. Not from his boss and certainly not from the criminals. If his methods are about as subtle as a stick of dynamite, they merely reflect the secret fantasies of nearly all of us, namely, that bureacracy be given the finger and the bad guys given a taste of their own medicine. Is that so bad? I don't think so. And neither is THE ENFORCER.