Here's the deal.  I've been a fan of Friday the 13th movies since I was a kid in the '80s.  Watched 'em all.  Loved most (hated goes to Hell and Jason X).  This DVD is bare bones, and hopefully a fuller one will be released (as happened with the Texas Chainsaw remake a few years back).  The short documentary about bringing Jason back is sort of interesting, but could have been fleshed out more.

This latest version IS a Jason movie regardless of what others (mostly whiners who don't have their facts straight, or a real appreciation for the series) have to say.  It's essentially a combination of parts 2-4 as you've probably already heard. Rewatching those movies, it's tough to say any of them were "good" but they were entertaining.  And so is this one!  Look for homages to Tom Savini (e.g. machete to head), "Blue Velvet" (Heiniken?!) and other great icons.  Fun stuff if you know anything at ALL about cult movies and horror...

Here's the top 10 misunderstandings I've seen thrown around relating to this flick, and WHY they're wrong:

1) Jason runs and is smart.  Watch the original movies 2-4 to see this.  He runs, he jumps, he lunges with agility.  He thinks, he plans, he psyches victims out. Same in this version.  People who claim this is a new characteristic truly don't know squat about the originals.

2) Jason lives in a shelter.  In this movie it was an abandoned mine (not tunnels he dug as others have wrongly claimed). In 2 it was a shed he had crudely slapped together.  In 3 and 4, who knows? he was out wandering the whole time.

3) The victims are truly HORRIBLE people who, let's face it, you'd like to slice and dice too.  Jason saves you the trouble.  Sometimes he's quick, efficient, and just wants to dispatch the person.  Other times he's a bit more creative.  He's got his moods...all shades of rage and hate.

4) The pot grows wild.  WILD, people.  It's NOT Jason's crop.  He's just in the neighborhood.  Enough with the "Jason's a pot farmer" nonesense.

5) The kills and story line in this movie are as good, or in some cases better (THAT'S RIGHT, I said BETTER) than in Parts 2-4. No fishing line is visible when he shoots an arrow through a head (unlike the spear in Pt 3).  The impalement on the back of the truck was cool.  So was the dock action. The story makes sense (as much as needed in a film like this).

6) Jason is not an unstoppable zombie. That only came about after Pt. 5 failed to spark interest.  It was a lame attempt to keep cashing in on the franchise (even though the movies WERE cool in their own way).  In parts 2-4, Jason is just a huge, strong, angry, hydrocephalic misanthrope.  Same as in this movie.

7) Jason isn't the focus of ANY Friday movie.  He's always got minimal screen time (show up, kill, disappear).  The victims necessarily are the focus.  The TALK and do things.  Jason doesn't talk.  He doesn't do much.  In fact, in this movie, we see him doing more than in ANY previous venue.  He sharpens his machete.  He kicks around some wash tubs in a fit of rage. He...well...he kills a bunch of bratty yuppies.  What more do we need to see him doing?  Lounging on a sofa? Sitting on the john?

8) The "ki-ki-ki-ma-ma-ma" theme isn't used much here.  True.  SO?! Sure it would have been nice to hear it a few more times, but honestly, if you're sitting around paying attention to sound effects, that means the movie ain't so happening.  I didn't even notice it wasn't part of the film 'til after the movie was over.  I believe it would have been a cliche and detracted from the film anyway.  So there!

9)The ending was "off."  Everybody's been bitching about how unlikely it would be to drop a psycho killer's body into a lake after surviving all those events.  DIDN'T YOU NOTICE HOW ODDLY DEEP THE WATER WAS UNDER THE DOCK?  Say...duh...do you suppose the ending was a...I dunno...a DREAM?! Like in the first one?  Oh, right, audiences need every sinlge little thing spelled out for them these days.  Ambiguity?! WHAT'S THAT?!  I'm perfectly happy accepting the dock ending as a dream sequence, based on the similarity to the end of part 1.  Use your IMAGINATION (if you have one).

10) Finally, I'd like to point out that NOWHERE at ANY time in the past was it EVER stated that Jason was retarded (or developmentally disabled to the p.c. crowd).  His mom said he was...well...he needed looking after.  He was clearly deformed physically, but no one ever claimed he was anything but a boy (or man) of normal intelligence.  A bit uncultured, yes, but smart and diabolical nevertheless.

This movie is definitely the best one of the series since Parts 2 & 4 (my personal favorites).  If you're a fan, you'll like it.  If you're a gimpy loser who THINKS you like Friday movies, just go watch Saw and get another piercing becuse you're a loser and no one likes you.