This legendary film about the greatest voyage in all the world in search of the greatest quest (The Golden Fleece) is a delight to the eyes and ears. There is a good script here and some wit included. The acting is fair to good as well as the effects by the master of stop motion, Ray Harryhausen. Every kid remembers the Skeleton army that Jason and his crew fight in the climax of this picture and some scenes are forever etched in the memory of our youth when we first saw this in the movies. But I feel that the most memorable moment is when Jason holds Olympic games for men to compete for a place on the Argo. Hercules (a believable performance by Nigel Green) and Hylas work magic in a discus competition and their friendship leads to Hylas's demise on the Isle of Bronze at the hands of Talos, one of the Titans of ancient mythology. Overlooked, but no less important is the great Bernard Hermann's musical score, an experiment in music of an orchestra with no stinged instruments and full of deep and clanging cymbals and horns that has become as much a part of this picture now as his music in "The Day the Earth Stood Still". The DVD brings back some of the color that was dimmed by the years, but one important scene, the Temple of Hermes where Jason is called up to Olympus is still grained and damaged with a bit of darkening. Perhaps the words spoken at the time ring true as Jason speaks unknowingly to Hermes himself when he states that if he chose to believe in the Gods he would not have chosen a fallen one, and in response Hermes says "Sometimes the Gods argue among themselves, then great winds blow and temples fall" This film needs major restoration work and deserves to be preserved for the future. Now the real question on everyone's mind is what eventually happened to the Golden Fleece? Well, any kid who grew up in the 60's in Philadelphia can tell you that a local guy who had a daily show on CBS here, Gene London is the current owner and keeps it in a chest in his basement and he whips it out on occasion to heal people, just like it worked on Media in the movie!