Patrice Leconte (The Girl on the Bridge) does a solid job over ninety one minutes of this film which is essentially about ageing and the imminent approach of death.
  Milan played by Johnny Hallyday claims to have been a stuntman for fourteen years but has now turned to robbing banks.
He arrives, by train, into a small town and needs a place to stay while preparing for one more heist.  As the local hotel is closed a chance meeting with M. Manesquier (Jean Rochefort) leads to his acceptance of the latter's hospitality.  Manesquier who is scheduled for heart surgery is at the point of examining his life which has been spent sedately as a teacher of literature and living quietly at his large and now rundown estate.  Milan is also having doubts about his own tawdry past and though he speaks little the ravages show in his gaunt face and rigid bearing.  Hallyday is perfect for this role and Rochefort, the more experienced actor,needs all of his considerable skills in what is probably the more difficult assignment.
  An unlikely but genuine friendship blossoms between the two men and though the outcome is highly predictable the dialogue and interaction between them  never misses.  Both see in the other what they have missed or neglected in their own lives and begin to explore each other and their possessions. Milan recalls parts of a poem he once learned while his host shoots at a row of cans.  In one of the most memorable scenes Milan is jostled in a bistro, does nothing, but points out to a surprised Manesquier that one man only beats two in the movies and adds a bitter reference to his own age.  Manesquier attempts to right the situation but finds that the ruffian is a former student who likes him.
  Women play a small but essential role in this film and Milan's partners are stereotypical but effective in their parts as old friend, betrayer and numbskull.
  Leconte uses some grainy and blue black techniques to create a somewhat ethereal effect in filming and the final scene is juxtaposed at times unevenly but ultimately successfully enough to leave the viewer reflecting on the relationship which has preceded and dominated the film.
  This is probably a man's film but anyone old enough to agonize about lost opportunities and roads not travelled will grasp what Leconte has been able to achieve.  Memorable..