What's most disturbing about this film is that Eichmann manages an underlying moral and cognitive chaos in the SAME way that in America today, conferences like this one are stage-managed to arrive at a predetermined result.

There is a lot of loose talk, of course, about the banality of evil and "evilduuers" as a stage villain on whom we can project our unavowable desires. The trouble is that there isn't, anymore, any loose talk about Fascism as a lens for examining our own society's mechanisms, in particular the way Fascism manages stupidity, cowardice and fear.

To use the word "Fascist" in reference to America today is to fall out of the grid.

A book by William Pfaff on the mismanagement of Iraq since 9-11 is called "Fear, Anger and Failure" yet to name it thus seems somehow, today, to scream in a vacuum like a spaceman. This is because while we cannot know Fascism from the outside (it being a thing of darkness which we like Prospero must acknowledge ours) we sure as hell can when honest identify with the surface order (the terrorized waiters: the snappy meals: the preparations perfectly laid on, in Barbara Tuchman's phrasing, in the German style, only to miss the crucial points, such as compassion), as contrasted with the underlying chaos.

Thus the bodies coming home from Iraq are known by insiders to be completely irrevelant and the chaos named in an Atlantic article two months ago by William Langieweische (the circling to land and the failure of the flight attendant, in otherwise following procedures at Baghdad International, to bid the passengers have a nice time, in Baghdad) is known by insiders to be permanently off the Power Point agenda.

Even on the system's own terms, the underlying mess is real although only named and narrated by the subaltern, the *Gauileiter* charged with preventing cholera, who is no longer,on pain of career stasis, permitted to make empirical generalizations. But the participants realize that for all their heel-clicking Enlightenment they are in chaos (represented by Klopfer's bulk).

I do not wish to overdraw parallels yet somehow the parallels cannot be overdrawn at this point, as when Euclid tried to master the geometry of Hell.