When Courtney Cox, Jennifer Aniston, David Schwimmer, Matt LeBlanc, Lisa Kudrow & Matthew Perry first got together to record the first season of Friends, nobody could have expected that the show would blow up into a huge phenomenon. The ratings went through the roof, and the group racked up countless awards for their amazing performance as the Friends cast. Their talents also spawned successful movie careers, magazine cover stories, award show appearences, two successful soundtracks, and everything else that deals with the entertainment world, because together as a group they have conqured it.
The first season contains so many treasured episodes of the Friends legacy, that no collection is complete without these tapes. Just look at the instant classics that you get on this tape:
The One with Two Parts: In my opinion this is easily the best Friends episode of all time. Rachel injuries her ankle while taking down the Christmas lights, and in order to afford the hospital charges must pretend to be Monica because she has no insurance. Things heat up when Monica & Rachel go out with the doctors that helped Rachel, and it provides one of the funniest scenes in television history.
The One with the East German Laundry Detergent: This is when Ross does laundry with Rachel, whom he still secretly loves at the time. After teaching Aniston how to do laundry, she kisses him, and he reacts hilariously by trying to walk away calmy, but instead walking into and open dryer door.
The One with the Boobies: This is the episode where Chandler walks in on Rachel coming out of the shower. After staring at her breasts on numerous accasions afterwards, Rachel tries to get payback by looking at Chandler in the shower. Instead she walks on Joey, who tries to get her back by walking in on her when it was really Monica, and so Monica tries to get him back by walking in on him, but instead its his father!!
The one with the Fake Monica: This is where Monica gets her credit card stolen by another woman named Monica and when she goes to confront her at tap class lessons, she ends up befriending the girl and spending everyday of a week with her. Unfortunatley for Monica, the woman is eventually caught and incarcerated.
These are just 4 of the best episodes on this tape. You can get to know the Friend's characters for those who haven't been fans since the first season, and fall in love with them just like the rest of America has. Their characters are so easy to relate to and their closeness as friends is one that everyone that watches the show will envy. This is easily the best television series of all time and I personally would recommend it to ANYONE.