This movies is JUST a tad bit over the top. Not George Clooney's finest, but still a typical Rodriguez film. It has its moments and what stood out to me was that Harvey Keitel's performance was probably the best, I personally thought he did a hell of a job in a movie that doesn't quite seem to fit his genre like lets say a Taxi Driver. The script is just hideous, I understand Tarantino is known for his one-liner movies but the writing was so horrible it was practically comedic. The movie is I'd say about one hour and forty five minutes, you dont learn of the vampires until they hit the Titty Twister in Mexico, about an hour into the film so to recap, 2/3 of the movie is about escaped fugitives one a thief, the other a psychopathic serial killer who by the way are brothers go figure who go an rampage, kidnap a preacher and his two teenage children and threaten their lives in exchange for a safe ride across the border. That was the first hour of the film. Then comes the vampires... almost completely out of know where. They stop at this strip bar called the Titty Twister where only bikers and truckers are allowed in and everything is going well, people are drinking and getting horny from cheap strippers and then suddenly Tarantino and Clooney get a rude awakening from one of the bar's figureheads, they get into a huge fight and Selma Hayek gets excited over the blood gushing from Tarantino's hand and she obviously cannot control her actions at this point and morphs into this bloodsucking being. From there, all HELL (literally) breaks loose.

Listen, I get it, this is suppose to represent exploitation films of the 70s, it has that kind of grimy and gritty style to it with the cheap effects and the outragious amount of violence and gore and one-liners, its ok, its what actually makes the movie work but the problem is you have a talented cast and a somewhat talented director who has had much better films in his career and all of sudden it appears that they've hit a road block. The movie has its moments, don't get me wrong but the plot and storyline suffer, the whole fugitive / Vampire hunters just doesn't seem to mesh properly. Its a fun movie to watch but not to be taken seriously. This is a Tarantino film, not a Keitel and Clooney film, they are much better actors than what is portrayed in this shoot-um up action / horror flick. Rodriguez's Sin City was much better than this and that was extremely gory and violent but Sin City was true to Noir and Pulp movies and comics whereas I'm not too convinced that From Dusk Till Dawn was true to exploitation films of the 70s. You want to see a real violent and gory mimic exploitation of the 70s? Watch the Devil's Rejections by Rob Zombie, you're in for a real treat.

There are some things I liked about the movie and alot I didnt. I actually enjoyed Clooney and Tarantino and their struggles trying to get across the border but the whole vampire image in the last forty five minutes really turned me off and Cheche Maron, there's a reason he's in movies like this. The way I look at, this is a cheap drive-in movie and actually your seeing two for the price of one... not a bad deal, but wasn't that how exploitation movies of the 70s were shown, two for one or a double feature?

This movie definitely will have its fanbase, but its not for everyone. Be weary of what your getting into.