who would of thought that a movie dealing with the issue involving teen anxiety would turn out to be actually decent? i sure didn't but after seeing this movie not only was a forced to admit some movies can be good even if the theme is stupid, i actually ended up loving how they protrayed the theme in this movie!

for a movie origionally released in 1989, its kind of interesting and disturbing to see Christian Slater's character wear a black trench coat and go around shooting other kids, but there is so much more to this movie than just murder and violence.

this movie is categorized as a dark comedy, but there are some very heart touching moments of seriousness that really stand out to the viewer. All the stereotypes that are given to highschool cliques of various sorts (cheerleaders, jocks, stoners, etc..) are incorporated in a way that not only makes it look funny, but makes us realize how shallow we all were in high school. then there are examples of how parents can be very ignorant and apathetic towards their kids, as seen with christian slater's dad and both of wynona rider's parents. and also we get to see examples of irony and the sickness of human nature when the person's reputation is at stake, like when the girl's were going out with the jocks on a cow tipping run only because rider's 'friend' needed to have a double date with the jocks, and when rider and the first Heather go to the frat party even though rider doesn't want to go and ends up having a horrible time.

but by far the best part of the movie is the last (at least) 1/3 of the movie, the plot is on a very fast track with no intent on stopping, it is full of many interesting twists and turns until it comes to the very end. The ending to this movie is probobly the best ending ive ever seen for a movie (at least it is off the top of my head right now anyway) and really presents to the viewer the futility of all our stupid barriers we set up against other people just because they're not cool and are different, and we also see what happens when these actions take their toles on the unfortunate people that are cast out.

id consider this a timeless classic that should get more recognition, expecially with all the stupid new teen movies like Euro trip. what we have to keep in mind though is, even though this is supposed to be a comedy (dark comedy, but still...) there are many people out in the world that embody the traits of these characters, and this alone should make us sad.