I was let down by this film, and given the fairly large number of low ratings here, it seems I'm not the only one.

In my opinion Burton departs far too far from Irving's original concept, where the romance and colour (figuratively and literally) of colonial America are all but lost in the movie.  To be sure, a perfectly precise book-to-film facsimile of "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" is pretty much impossible.  That said, a film version should not change the structure of the story wholesale, but rather only enhance the story's effect through visuals -- as much as possible painting on film what Irving paints with words and prose, while maintaining the original story's literary integrity.

To me, the appeal in Irving's story is that he is able to capture the mood, humour, excitement, and even horror of the Headless Horsemen through a technique of building suspence and implying terror -- making us work for it, making us use our imagination -- as opposed to offering it up on a platter for us to merely gawk at the incessant computer generated spectacle.

There appeared to be very little if any effort in the film to place us 'in' early colonial America.  I was yearning to see something with high emphasis on historical and technical accuracy -- something akin to a Michael Mann production (e.g., "The Last of the Mohicans").  Something to perpetuate the 'legend' as a 'legend', and not just somekind of completely unbeleivable, easily dismissable, comic-book style matinee picture.  For me, the most enjoyable of the thrilling/scary type movies, be they period pieces or set in the present day, are the ones that come so close to 'reality' that you think, "hey, this could almost really happen".  For me, that's when it gets you.  That's why Irving's story works so well -- centuries old or not.  Instead, Burton completely and totally indulges his 'gothism' inclination to the point where things become so fantastic (as in beyond reality) that you begin to really expect anything -- even UFO's with headless ET's flying out of the "death-tree" (or whatever it's called) and jumping into the batmobile.  Christopher Walkin's character for instance: great idea and great actor, but there was nothing believable about him from the beginning.  It could have been so much more.

I would love to see Michael Mann do this story; with a degree of seriousness (which doesn't mean humourlessness) so sorely lacking in Burton's effort.  Think of Stanley Kubrick's adaptation of Stephen King's "The Shining" for instance (different style of story of course, but THAT was somehow 'beleivably' terrifying -- which is the point).  Or, think of Rob Reiner's "Stand by Me" adaptation of Stephen King's "The Body", now THAT was excellent in so many ways -- serious, humourous, touching, and scary (i.e., beleivable).  It resonated with your own fears; Burton's Sleepy Hollow however does not.  It does not make you not want to walk alone in the country on an autumn night.

I never really got the feeling from Burton that his Sleepy Hollow village was even an isolated place.  It seemed to me that it was just some kind of deprived burrough of New York City.  I read Irving's book however, or even watch Disney's cartoon, and I get the feeling that Sleepy Hollow was almost a society unto itself, and not stark and desolate and grim.  Why did Burton show us, or even mention, New York City in the first place?  For Irving, Sleepy Hollow is rather bountiful and cultured.  And when the sun goes down - however - and the autumn leaves blow and the cold wind whistles through the trees and the moon casts eerie shadows, and the land is dark, that's when Sleepy Hollow really shows itself as the supernatural place it is.

At the level of script in particular, all of a sudden, pretty much at the end of the movie, we just have Katrina's mother-in-law as the principle antagonist?  What was that all about?  Burton just tried to make it too complex and lost Irving's effective simplicity.  I wish he had of stuck to the story.

The thing that probably bugs me most is that this movie was not terrible.  It had it's potential.  It really could have been great.  Burton just lost the plot somewhere along the line.  And I fear now that since Burton is a pretty big Hollywood name, no one is going to take this story on and do it justice; give it the time and attention it deserves.  Like who is going to re-do James Finimore Coopers "Last of the Mohican's" for instance, after Mann has done it?  I just don't see it happening anytime soon.  That's okay in this case though, because that movie was great.