I've never written a review of a film before. But I consider this one of the finest films I've seen in my life.

Many things make this movie special on so many levels; the superb story, superstar actors including many that weren't superstars at time of this film's making, Walter Matthau and Carol O'Conner for example. Kirk Douglas was a superstar, and his performance in Lonely Are The Brave is an excellent example of why he was a superstar. I saw this movie first as a youth, and several times since as an adult. I enjoy it each and every time.

Kirk plays a likable free spirited range roaming cowboy whom the modern 1963 world is closing in on with fences and other restrictions. The story is brilliantly multi faceted with the many aspects and relationships of all the characters in the film. Of particular interest is the relationship that Kirk portrays between him and his horse named Whiskey. Kirk has stated that the horse stole the movie and the viewers were more sympathetic to the character's horse than they were to his character. There is some truth to what Kirk says, but not really. I have owned horses all of my life. And, having an interest in horses, I've always enjoyed Westerns and other films about horses or cowboys. The horse in this movie is a beautiful animal, but she didn't steal the movie. She was a great supporting actress in one of the best and most realistic portrayals in any film I've seen of the deep friendship that can develop between a horse and their owner. And at the end of the movie, Kirk's brilliant portrayal of this relationship and friendship with that horse draws the viewer in to love that horse as much as Kirk's character does. That's brilliant acting.

Walter Matthau's performance is brilliant as well in his supporting role with just a taste of humor, typical of Matthau as we would learn in later years. Also George Kennedy and Gena Rowland deliver excellent performances. I am still in awe of how this not so well known movie could have possibly escaped without academy recognition. Kirk Douglas has hinted that this is his favorite film. Well I'm no big time movie critic, but this movie is a jewel with some of the finest writing, acting and performances you will ever see. Kirk Douglas was a superstar. And this movie, while not one of his best known, is one of the finest examples of the raw talent that warrants that status.