"End of Days" had its main character more realistic than other
Arnold films, he was not invincble in this role, had suicidal
tendency due to the painful lost of family and suffered from the guilt thereafter. Arnold portrayed this characther with emotions that I could identify with, very real, and his acting was quite subtle at some scenes, I was not a fan until I saw this one, then consequently I bought it on DVD.
The main problem about this film is its trailer, I don't konw if the trailer on DVD was actually the theatrical trailer while
it released, but it's very unappealing compared to the substance of this film to say the least. 
On the contrary, the two MV on DVD are much better editted than the trailer, I am glad Terminator 3 will be released by Warner Bros instead of Universal Studio, at least WB knows better when it comes to promotion. It's a pitty that "End of Days"was much superior than it seemed from the trailer.
Other complaint is that the DVD reveals too much secret of the special effects making, it's terrific that those stunts were made very belivable, and the CGI was great, but is it necessary to exhibit how they were made? It only reduces wonderment next time you see it, personally I would rather not know these technical things, and believe it's all actually happened (e.g.
church explosion and train derailment).
Other than those two mentioned above, this film is very good, its atmosphere is thrilling, Usually I hate to watch action movie, especailly violent ones. But Arnold 's acting in this film impressed me a lot and keep me captivated throughtout the viewing, It's probably that I like to watch a realistic character more than super human ones although the latter are cooler.
End of Days is my second favorite Schwarzenegger movie,
btw he looked very good in this film, not changed a bit since I
last saw him in Eraser except that his performance in End of Days is better than Eraser, he didn't look older after several years, he's more than double my age, but that's not the point, the point is he looks really great and charismatic, it's quite amazing.