Can you think of another film and sequel that are as uniformly excellent? I sure can't. "Before Sunrise" and "Before Sunset" are each jewels in their own right.

I saw "Before Sunrise" when it came out in 1995 and fell head over heels. Some films become instant favorites but lose their luster after repeated viewings through the years -- it's natural for our response to change as we age and evolve. But with true movie classics, our affection only grows. "Before Sunrise" is one of those. It has remained among my favorite films these past nine years, and subsequent viewings have brought just as much, if not more, delight and wonder.

Unfortunately, I've been less than thrilled with Richard Linklater's subsequent films -- particularly "Waking Life," which I thought was pretentious and annoying (despite animated cameos by Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy).

So, I approached "Before Sunset" with both trepidation and excitement. Amazingly, the sequel is just as enjoyable and satisfying as the first. The tone is somewhat different, as you would expect because of the characters' greater maturity and share of disappointments. The performances, script and direction remain perfect.

These are the most European American films I can think of, and yes, that's a compliment. (Sometimes, you almost expect to see subtitles.) They are particularly reminiscent of Eric Rohmer's films in that they rely on real-time effects and lengthy conversations to tap into what it means to be human and connect with others. And in fact, if you love the "Before" movies and you don't mind subtitles, you might want to also check out Rohmer films like "Boyfriends and Girlfriends" and "Summer."

The "Before Sunrise" and "Before Sunset" DVDs have excellent picture quality. There are no extras to speak of, except for a short behind-the-scenes documentary on the "Before Sunset" DVD. At first, I was disappointed, but then I realized that adding a commentary or deleted scenes to either film might only risk taking away some of the magic. Both movies stand on their own. They are, in my opinion, the most perfectly realized romantic films in American movie history, bar none.