Lethal Weapon is one of the best films of the action genre, blending off-beat humor with surprisingly expressive acting and tense situations.  Though much of the plot is over the top, and the casualness of the gunplay (as Danny Glover asks Mel: "have you ever met anyone you didn't kill?) seems like it should make the movie too unbelievable to be good, the humor with which the situations are treated pulls the film together easily.  Even though the scenes added in the director's cut don't add up to a much longer movie, they do further the character development of Mel Gibson's character.  Notably, the sniper scene shows the audience the extent of Gibson/Riggs' emotional disturbance, and lends a deeper character credibility during the confrontation between Riggs and Murtaugh after the rooftop jump, in which Riggs explains that the only thing restraining him from suicide is "the job."  Riggs is seen more clearly in this version as a modern gunslinger, a victim of depressed and unstable victim of circumstance who decides daily to keep on living only because he stubbornly refusus to let the bad guys win.  Glover plays well opposite, and he does a very good job interpreting a man confronting middle age, family responsibilities, and his responsibility and desire to be a good cop despite the changes in the world that are occuring around him.
  The humor is, at the end, what ties this film together.  the punchlines seem to come at the tensest moments, though for the most part they avoid the cheesy one liners before blowing the bad guys away.  They simply arise out of the context, and do not feel artificial.  Busey is also good, and he can really act the part of being one mean SOB.  The action is spectacular, and the end fight scene is extremely well choreographed, as the crew hired one of the infamous Gracies (A brazillian family who define modern mixed martial arts) to help out with it.  One of my favorite movies of all time, and easily the best of the series, Lethal Weapon defines the action genre in a way that hasn't been seen since.