There are aspects of this movie that are sure to offend some people and it's obvious from the 1 star reviews that certain individuals were offended by those aspects of the film, which clearly clouded their judgment and precluded them from presenting an objective and accurate review.

The basic storyline is as follows: There exists a technology that was created by the government, which found it's way on the streets and has since been outlawed. Due to the emotional need for this new tech, it is created and sold on the underground (much like the situation with LSD in the 60's).

The technology is a device that allows the user to experience sequences that were recorded so that it is like they are really there in the scene. This is not virtual reality where you are the one moving around, you experience what was recorded exactly as it happened. The device works through sending the signal or whatever into the nuerotransmitters of the brain so all the senses are affected.

Most of the sequences are thrilling and allow people who live ordinary lives to experience certain behavior that they otherwise would never know, or people in relationships to experience sexual fantasies wherein they feel as if it is actually happening when it is not, hence they are not actually cheating. Then there are the more immoral sequences, the misuses, etc., that are the cause for the conflict in the film.

Feines is a dealer who is obsessed with his ex whom he has several sequences of which allows him to relive his past when they were together. He happens upon a sequence which is quite illegal, actually two of them, and he, along with a potential love interest (Angela Bassett), tries to find out who was responsible. What he finds out is a shocking cover-up that puts his life in danger.

Ignore the negative reviews, this movie is thrilling with a fascinating look at a riveting form of entertainment technology. It is not a straight-up sci fi flick, it is more than that. I would label it as a thriller with some sci fi aspects to it, not the reverse. The acting is well done and since it only takes place about 5 years in the future (from the time it was made), the setting does not look radically different than the present. To say it should is stupid. It is 12/31/1999, not 2050.

The best part of the film are the 'sequences', which are, of course, shot in the 1st person, and allows you to imagine what the person is feeling as he is hooked up to the device. As I mentioned, there are some disturbing scenes, including a crime involving a woman, that some people were upset over, but to ask how a woman could direct a movie that has a scene involving a crime against a female is insulting to any woman in the industry. What do you think, women should only be allowed to direct movies like Bridget Jones Diary? That is the more misogynistic view, in my opinion.

Regardless, Strange Days is a fascinating thriller w/ a great plot and riveting action, not to mention a brilliant opening scene, that will leave you fully satisfied.