A young, good-looking cast?  A ridiculous plot coupled with bad science?  Flashy sets and vapid characters?  What does it all mean?  Yes it's late August again and Hollywood has seen fit to release everything that would have been blown away by the competition earlier in the summer.  That means any action-horror films rightly gathering dust can be dumped on an unsuspecting public with little to no blockbuster competition.  Thus arrives The Cave, a turkey sure to be an ordeal for any creature with opposable thumbs.  More on evolutionary traits to follow.

Spelunk.  It's not just a synonym for cave exploration it's also the sound this movie makes as it sinks into your consciousness.  It happens during the first frames when "Cold War Romania - 30 Years Ago" appears across the screen.  Was that the dominant condition of Romania 30 years ago?  Who do they expect their audience to be that they don't know the Cold War was going on 30 years ago?  You'd have to have been raised by blind tetras in a cave to be ignorant of that.  Plus, the Cold War has nothing to do with the opening scene or the general plot.  Incidentally, blind tetras are blind because evolution in a totally lightless environment did not necessitate the retention of a functional eye.  Anyway, in Cold War Romania a group of cavers go missing.  Fast forward to, "Carpathian Mountains - Today" (hint: it's the same place).  After some imaging equipment detects a large cave system a group of cave divers are recruited to map it out.  As formula dictates they are a handsome bunch and are prone to rapid back-and-forth dialogue.  Note that I didn't say "rapid and clever back-and-forth dialogue."  The group is headed by Jack (Cole Hauser) and anchored by his right hand man Buchanan (Morris Chestnut).  Tyler, Briggs, Dr. Nicolai, Katherine, Charlie, Alex and Strode round out the rest of the group.  I'd like to tell you more about the characters but they're not developed at all so I don't know anything else about them.  After a successful descent into the cave Strode is sent out to scout one of the underwater passages to find a deeper camp for the team.  One explosion later the team is trapped below with an evolutionary mystery.

Bats have viable wings and can live in caves.  The important thing about their ability of flight however is that it is used mostly outside of caves where there is, you know, room to fly.  The creatures in The Cave can fly too but they live in a closed underground environment.  There is no room to fly more than a few meters at a time but somehow they have gained this trait along with having huge eyes and remarkably Alien-like heads.  Trying to get around evolution we're told these creatures are modified by some parasite, a situation that begs more questions than it answers.  How and why would a parasite give wings to an organism?  Even it was able to change a host organism, how would a parasite, even if conscious and intelligent, think of wings?  We find out late in the movie that the parasite wants to move above ground.  How does it know above ground exists?  How is a collection of microorganisms intelligent?

The only idea more stupid than the creature is the idea that the movie should have been made in the first place.  In the end their is no clear winner or loser in the battle between human and parasite.  This is not done to introduce the evolutionary trait of symbiosis and use it as a metaphor for conflict resolution.  This is done to leave room for a sequel.  Someone's been wearing Bad Idea Jeans.