OK, if you're bracing for me to claim that "Jackass" belongs in the company of "Schindler's List" or "Godfather," you can relax...But this movie--and the show that led up to it--is far more important and meaningful than its surface would indicate.
First off:  The surface.  "Jackass: The Movie" is around 90 minutes of bathroom humor and self-mutilating stunts and pranks as pulled by Johnny Knoxville, Steve-O, and friends in the homoerotic style of frat-house hazing.  It's like the TV show but bolder and better produced.  Many of the guys show off their very ordinary bodies in thongs and jockstraps.  And the film is funny.  Really funny.  The kind of belly laughs that only come from being shocked as well as amused.  Our band of buddies eat snowcones soaked in ..., wreck a golf cart, snort wabasi (horseradish sauce), scorch their hams launching bottle rockets from their anuses, allow a baby alligator to bite down on a nipple, and [use a] store's display toilet.
But just beneath all that is a remark on the inaccessibility of manhood and spirituality in modern times.  If you tune out the laughter and high-wattage smiles, "Jackass" plays like "The Lives of the Saints":  a series of inventive tortures, a sequence of iconic poses by "martyrs" bathed in body fluids and contorted in pain.  Knoxville even apes crucifixion on a "Rolling Stone" cover.  Other times we see his body, like St. Sebastian's, quilled with arrows or darts.  When it's pelted with objects, we recall the stoning of St. Stephen.  Mutilating the body as a path to spiritual focus has a long Christian history, which "Jackass" gleefully pulls out of context, making shallow fun of it while mourning the loss of its depth.
Then there's the references to manhood rites and macho heroes:  Eating multiple boiled eggs then throwing them up (a failed Cool Hand Luke), losing badly to a much better boxer, never seeming to have a chance (a failed Rocky), running scared from a bullfight (a failed Ernest Hemingway), etc.  Knoxville and crew fail enjoyably, though; theirs is a kind of campy masculinity, an acknowledgement that the modern world has forced off the mask of machismo that once lionized and protected men.  All guys are wussies now, so Steve-O might as well skate onto thin ice in a lacy ballerina outfit.
"Jackass," then, is a kind of nihilism, a male bonding without a higher purpose which uses the sugar of hilarity, camraderie, and camp to help down the hatch a bitter message about a time without real he-men or holy men.  The audience may be too busy guffawing to notice that this sadomasochistic sit-com is revved up by a nonchalant homoeroticism and a breezy iconoclasm or that its characters' laughs are sometimes a bit forced or nervous.
The week "Jackass" came out in theaters, I took a trio of 15yo boys to see it (its target audience whether anyone admits it or not), and one of them complained afterward that Steve-O wasn't as manly as Bam because he refused to suffer a matchbox car up the ....  After laughing throughout the film, I laughed yet again.  Boy, are we guys confused or what?