Pumpkinhead (1988)
Pumpkinhead is a surprisingly brilliant horror movie that's crimnally underrated and overlooked.Pumpkinhead is everything The  Blair Witch Project should've been and much more.
Story: A Farmer named  Ed Harley (Lance Henriksen) finds out  that his son Billy (Matthew Hurley)  was accidently killed by MoterCycle riding Teens who accidently ran him  over.Though it was an accident,Ed finds a way to get Revenge.
Ed meets a  strange Old Woman who lives in a creepy Witch like  Shack and promises Ed  Revenge is what he'll get.
Ed is told to dig up the remains of a Monster  and bring it back to the Old Woman.When he does,the Monster,named  "Pumpkinhead"  (because he was buried in an old Pumpkin  Patch,but looks  nothing like a Pumpkin) comes to life and mangles the  Teens in the area.Ed realizes that this isn't what he wanted.He also learns  he can't take it back,so he tries desperately to destroy the Beast and turn  everything normal again.
This film is absolutely fantastic and is true to  the horror genre.The photography is excellent and some of the best I've  ever seen.It's dark and quite filthy,adding lots of suspense  to the  already excellent story and settings.The story is extremely original and  refreshing,and adds a great twist to the Revenge factor found in most  films.
The performances are wonderful.Henriksen is the perfect choice  for Ed Harley.He's believeable,and the same applies to the other  characters.Their all believeable and have loads of depth, and most of them  are truly sympathetic.The dialog is also superb.
Creature Maven Stan  Winston (who created the Aliens is Aliens,  the Dinosaurs in the two  Jurassic Park films,and the Gorgonite and Commando Elite figures for Small  Soldiers) makes his directorial debut here and is surprisingly  excellent.His direction is very strong and powerful,and gives the film a  great feel to it,that also feels very hard-worked and suspensful.
The  special effects are mind blowing.There isn't a single CGI  effect is  sight.The Monster "Pumpkinhead" is brilliantly done and is the  true Boogyman of the horror genre.He's the Monster that gives kids  Nightmares.There is also a truly breath-taking scene where  "Pumpkinhead" lifts a MoterCycle with a Teen on it and throws it  without a problem.
All in all,Pumpkinhead is a simply brilliant horror  movie that very sadly doesn't get the credit it deserves.If your a horror  fan and want to see how a REAL horror movie is done,do yourself a favor and  add this Gem to your collection,along with many other classic horror films  including Phantasm,Halloween, Friday the 13th,and many more.
On a side  note...that over-hyped piece of Garbage known as  The Blair Witch Project  ripped this Masterpiece of totally. Always keep that in mind when you watch  Pumpkinhead and Blair  Witch!