If I were suddenly transported back to 1940's America I'm sure Casablanca would strike many resonating issues with me. But as the situation exists I am too young to have even a memory of fifty years ago. Even so I can  clearly see that Director Michael Curtiz found many ways to tie the  originally B track movie into hearts of and eventually the culture of  Americans. It was probably difficult to find Americans that were not  somehow personally involved in the greater European war efforts. I would  think it was easy for the public to identify with the American vs. Nazi  propaganda and I'm sure most Americans sympathized with travelers that had  to journey through the hazardous gateway town of Casablanca.  Most of  the film revolves around Rick Blane's(Humphrey Bogart) night club. Rick is  mostly detached from the troubles surrounding him saying many times "I  stick my neck out for no one." But his façade is pierced when his forgotten  love Ilsa Lund Laszlo(Ingrid Bergman) visits his club accompanied by her  husband, Victor Laszlo(Paul Henreid) an American propaganda leader.  I  was amazed at the impact Casablanca has visibly had on our society.  For  example Bogart inserted many lines into our culture such as "Here's looking  at you, kid," and "play it again Sam." I was interested to learn where  these lines were first made widely public. I suppose it's these elements  that sink into society and make a film like this a classic. I had a  difficult time following the film for about the first half hour and then  things started making more sense. I would give a higher score if the  opening had set the stage a little better. I also feel like the movie is  not targeted at my general demographic characteristics but it does a good  job of letting us look into the attitudes that were prevalent in the  1940's. An extra point goes to Curtiz for using a juggler in the opening  scenes long enough to enjoy and get recognized in the Juggling Information  Service's Juggling in Movies list. (I checked) So, Casablanca ends up with  a final score of 3 stars-a good classic movie but not on the top of the  stack.