I disagree with most of the crtical reviews of this movie 150%!  Not only was this movie my favorite Rocky film (YES, even more than the original Rocky), it is one of my all time favorite movies which I have seen dozens of times and NEVER grow old of it.  So much so it became the inspiration of the main graphic on my business web site.

Why?  For many reasons.

To me the Rocky theme never grows old.  It is the classic "Hero's Journey."  The underdog in life that is challenged to pull deep within, fight the inner "demons," connect with one's true strength and inner potential and triumph in the end.

What makes Rocky IV different and more potent in my mind is the contrast in themes.  In this movie, Rocky is at the top of his game (in fact retire with all the trappings of success) and is forced to look deep within again but for a much deeper and more soul provoking reason.  His best friend and original boxing contender -- Apollo Creed -- has lost his life in the boxing ring to the testerone-driven, freakish, goliath-like Russian boxing challenger.  This castrophe forces Rocky to do some deep soul-searching about how "he sold his passion for glory."  (from "The Eye of the Tiger" song).

How many people in the business world and life in general, sacrifice their passion for glory?!  Probably 95+%.  Being a business coach, I constantly look for movies, books, stories that coach people in their businesses.  To me this movie has that compelling message.  "We must fight to keep our passions alive."

The other aspect that I like about this movie is the strong contrast between nature and technology.  Rocky flies off to the desolated mountains of Siberia using nature as his training ground, connecting with his true inner strength.  The Russian on the other hand uses all the latest high tech gear and non-stop steroids to build his massive robotic body that looks more like a machine.  Another valuable lesson.

While technology has tremendous value to our society, how often do we allow technology to rule our lives, stripping us of our of our connection with ourselves and other people, making us feel more like machines?

If you look at this movie as just a boxing movie, you miss the deeper lessons it can have for your life.  Go watch this movie with new eyes and see its brilliant message unfold in front of your eyes.