I read Order of the Phoenix after seeing the film, and I'm glad I did it that way.  While it's a very good book, as the others are, it is also rather frustrating.  If anything, Rowling represents the Ministry's interference with Hogwarts in the person of Dolores Umbridge all too well, and it goes on for hundreds of aggrivating pages, almost becoming as oppressive to the readers as it is to the students.  If it was Rowling's intention to create in her huge audience a deep hatred for the arbitrary and often destructive power of corrupt, willfully ignorant authorities, she has surely accomplished that mission here- and it's an all too timely lesson no one can afford not to learn!  But in the novel, it does get to be a bit much after five hundred pages or so.  Having seen the film both before and after reading the book, I am glad for the streamlining of the story that the film offers; all the essential elements are there- did we really need another Quiddich match, or any other distractions from the main story when that story is the key to everything that will follow?  I think this was, in some ways, the best of the films.  It didn't lack for drama at any point, and it set up what is to come quite effectively.  Of course, the end of the book explains things more thoroughly- and a bit more clearly- but by the time you get there, you are quite exhausted.  If they had tried to film all of what is going on in the book, or even most of it, side-stories and all, in the process making this the longest film as well as the longest book, it wouldn't have worked half as well as it did.  The most important element of book 5 is the beginning of the second war and all that it involves, and it was this that David Yates emphasised- from the Ministry's panic-based oppression to the desperate preparation of the Order and the haphazard training of Dumbledore's Army.  There is just enough of Dolores Umbridge here to make Rowling's point without getting tiresome, and the inessential-to the film, at least- elements that Yates stripped away are really no great loss, as it is the battle in the Ministry that is really the heart of this film, anyway.  It is in that climactic sequence- which I saw in amazing IMAX 3-D- that the key to the future lies.  Can Voldemort be defeated?  How?  Those of us who've read the books must keep quiet; we must not spoil it for those who are merely following the films. . .
At any rate, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is an excellent example of the difference between the two mediums, novel and film.  What works in a novel rarely does on a screen, or at least doesn't work the same way (one of the only exceptions to this rule that I've ever seen is Rosemary's Baby, where Polanski follows Ira Levin's novel almost religiously, to brilliant effect).  J.K. Rowling's 870-page novel is way too much for the movies; only a skilled filmmaker could've cut it down to it's essential story, retaining enough details and character development to make it work on screen.  Did it work?  I believe so, and the box-office tally seems to agree with me.  The important new characters were introduced and developed effectively, and the old ones matured and changed; the story was told well, with clarity and suspense.  Can't wait to see it again on DVD.