Army of Darkness, or as it is better known "Evil Dead 3," is a wonderful movie. It's a rare instance where a film in a series will take an entirely different approach from its previous instalments. The first two Evil Deads were cult favourites of 80's horror buffs. Army of Darkness on the other hand has a cult following, but this cult also includes comedic buffs. Yes, comedic buffs. As opposed to sticking with the successful blood, gore & frights common in the first two, the film-makers decided to go with slap-stick, one-liners, mild fright and an over-all good adventure in this film. The movie tells the tale of Ash, who after fighting off the evil of the Necromonicon, gets transported back into medieval times. In order to return home Ash must obtain the Necromonicon, as the book contains the passage required to send him to his own time. But in obtaining the book Ash releases The Army of the Dead/The Deadites who are led by Evil Ash. Ash uses his wit and charm to the best of his abilities and puts up one heck of a fight. Does he survive and make it back to his one time? Well, that depends on which version of the film you watch. This DVD is a masterful collection. Two versions of film are included here....the U.S. Theatrical Version on the first disk, with the second disk holding the Director's Cut Version. The extras are also quite wonderful. The U.S. Version is viewable in both widescreen and full-screen versions, with the Director's Cut in widescreen. As well as talent bios, the theatrical trailer, a great behind the scenes featurette, additional footage, deleted scenes, and story boards, a very wonderful and insightful commentary is also available with the Director's Cut. Even though Army of Darkness is available in a couple of different versions, THIS is the version to own. It was well worth the wait and I highly recommend that it be checked out. Horror fans might get a kick out of it and even comedy fans might enjoy it too. Who'd a thought a Three Stooges routine would work so well with a skeleton? Ash is a super-hero of sorts for the common man and in the great words of him "Shop smart, shop S-Mart."