This is one of the great "lost" Martin Scorsese films; it has not and will not gain the attention that his more violent (but just as brilliant) epics have drawn, which really says more about audiences and critics than Scorsese.  People complain about Scorsese's penchant for bloodshed, but they ignore the fact that very few of his films deal directly with organized crime, and they also deprive themselves of appreciating his versatility, on display in gems like "King of Comedy."  The film came out in 1983, a troubled and expensive production that disappointed many who were looking for a follow-up to 1980's "Raging Bull."  "King" is uneven in its pacing and script, especially after the kidnapping takes place.  Rupert Pupkin is not one of the great Scorsese protagonists and DeNiro struggles with the role a bit.  The compelling performance belongs to Jerry Lewis, who is a revelation here: subtle, barely controlled, and finally sympathetic--how could he manage that, you ask?  Well, DeNiro and Scorsese had something to do with it, but watch the scene in which Jerry explains the pressures of his life to Rupert after being kidnapped and then tell me that Lewis didn't reach down into his own soul for that one.  The fantasy scenes with Rupert, Jerry, and Diahnne Abbott (once married to DeNiro, and sultry gorgeous--a beautiful movie actress who doesn't buy into starvation images) are disturbing yet funny.  Sandra Bernhard: after Lewis, the best acting here, charismatic, vulnerable, volatile and finally beautiful, too.  Scorsese keeps his thrilling camera and editing moves in check here and proves himself to be a great director of actors.  The film was widely perceived as a bitter commentary on how fame and infamy had changed Scorsese's life--some blamed him for creating situations that led to the assassination attempt on Ronald Reagan, when John Hinckley, obsessed by Jodie Foster in Scorsese's "Taxi Driver," followed his obsession to an ugly end.
Now, after the passage of 20 years, we can return to the film without that baggage and enjoy it for showing us yet another side of the artistry of Scorsese.