A lot of people have criticized this movie because of a few curse words and anger shown by one of the main characters, a pastor in an inner city church.  Who said the pastor was supposed to be the role model in this movie?  If you pay attention you will see that this movie shows that sometimes God uses the weak, the lowly, the "dumb" people to be examples of how we should live as Christians.  The character "Sonny" lead the two main characters in doing what is right in the foot washing scene.  And the movie is portraying reality, and showing the faults of human beings in a way that makes it obvious what the RIGHT thing is, and in the end they put aside their anger and come together to try to make a difference in the community.

In the past I would have thought it is a shame for a Christian to utter profanity, and how could it be called a "Christian" film with so much bad language?!  But now over the past few years I've learned a lot about how God looks at us when we are His children, and how He wants us to treat each other (even when we sin), and it's NOT the way the Pharisees acted. Someone recently put on facebook a picture of a judge's gavel with this statement:  "Don't judge others just because they sin differently than you do."  All bad habits are hard to break, whether it is cursing, drinking, smoking, lying, cheating, stealing, OR eating a lot of junk food or sweets, watching too much TV instead of reading your Bible, spending too much time on the phone or texting or facebooking or whatever, OR THINKING insults about someone who you don't like, or lust or hate, etc.  The fact that the black pastor's old habits came back occasionally when he was in a very stressful situation shows that he was a real person, he had a real bad past, and just like ALL of us he was still flesh and blood even though he had been saved.  If a Christian gets upset when their kid does something really bad and they yell at their kid and lose their temper, is that right?  No, it's wrong.  It's sin.  But if you are truly God's child then it's under the blood just like all your other sins, and if you say a curse word while you're at it, that is under the blood as well.  (FYI I have never cursed - it's not my personal problem - I have plenty others though, and they are all under the blood and I'm changing by His power...) One reason so many people can't stand to watch "Christian" movies is because they are so fake, so white-washed, so CHEESY.  In this movie the characters act like real people and the message is clear without being preachy.

I would have given it 5 stars but the end was a bit of a cliff hanger.  I guess we are to assume the best, and if so, then it had a good ending.