Let's all sing the DOOM song!  &lt;insert about 50,000 dooms here>  
Although I'm a fan of Jhonen Vasquez's "Johnny the Homicidal Maniac" comics, I never really gave Invader Zim a good look through.  Then, through the miracle of DVD players, I was given a rather impressive introduction.  Zim is one of the greatest cartoon villians ever: campier than Izma (Emporer's New Groove), more ruthless than the Decepticons (Transformers),  more sex appeal than Skeletor (He-Man) and has a maniacal laughter that makes Darth Vader jealous.  Zim is the over-zealous, ruthless super-space invader who has proven that he's just a little too battle-hungry for his own good.
I don't mean to be preaching to the choir, especially since Invader Zim has already developed a worthy cult following, but this series is dangerously addictive, with very original and cutting-edge humor.  Zim's stories follow his espionage mission to Earth, where he tries to pass himself off as a grade-school human, while collecting data on Earth for the inevitable invasion by his home planet.  However, even mad geniuses sometimes overlook the small details, like the fact that his own superiors sent him to Earth to get rid of him, after Zim decided to "quit" his exhile.
As Zim fruitlessly tries to prepare for the invasion of Earth, we watch his daily battles between him and his archnemisis, the sci-fi conspiracy-theorist geek, Dib and his apathetic computer-game playing sister.  Zim will struggle to adjust to human nature while creating robotic parents for Parent-Teacher night at School, getting lost in the big city because of his moronic robot side-kick, harvesting human organs to disguise his alien physiology to daily battles with Dib.
While the cartoon is playful and highly stimulating, I can understand why Nickelodeon dropped it from their network.  The humor is mix matched, sometimes appealing to a younger audience, but mostly to an older (and perhaps more deranged) one.  Still, I do hope that somebody will wake up and realize such a masterpiece that Jhonen Vasquez has put together. 
If you have read all of this review, then add Invader Zim to your shopping cart right away.  With the steady downfall in entertainment (and the horrible recycling of most cartoon shows), I doubt we can expect anything as unique and entertaining to come out soon.  BUY THIS NOW!