I'll admit that i had to do a double-take too; there is "one" scene missing from the movie and that is something to tell us that we are going back in time. see the scene when peter stands over her and holds her breasts, sexy-like, cupped with both hands from behind her and he says, "what's wrong?"; I'm left with the question: which was it, something was wrong because she knew she had had the affair or that she knew she had breast cancer? and, i don't know when she knew she had a health problem--did she know on the day she met the other man with her red shoes on?

SHE DID TRY TO ELUDE HIM BUT HE OFFERED FUN AND CARE-FREE-NESS.

so, there are questions about this one scene missing from this 'real-life' drama, including  the fact that she was a young woman, but that doesn't mean the "experience" the movie delivers was not a good one. the whole movie was about a man finding out that his wife was not what he thought she was but then in the end somehow peter is trying to tell us something about forgiveness and going on and accepting life as it is ...but still with the question; why did she want my "lesser" over me, or, like he asked, "why did she roll in lust with him for a day but not with me, what does this all mean?'

well, she was a travelling 'salesman' and it happens. she totally redeems herself with me, because i was so angry at her kind of woman for doing what she did to a good man..., but i know what it is like to be a young woman in her position, but she totally redeems herself with me because she returned to her marriage. she returned to her husband the real man. she felt sorry for the other man; he had time to play in bed, and all that jazz; but these two married people were employers with other people's lives as their responsibilitity; they could not afford to go chasing turtles.

Lisa stopped her 'real' life to go play with a 'nome'...but she acted responsibly and returned to her life and told him not to call. i feel that redeems her and i liked peter's revenge and i liked peter's choice to not act like a real fool and kill him as if this 'nome' was his real competition. i loved peter at the end but i would not marry peter because he is totally carrying a torch i think, for the rest of his days. but there are graceful women out there who can make life beautiful for him faithfully.

BUT WAIT....that redemption i gave lisa has just caved. why on earth did she find it necessary to tell peter during her dying days about the other man? why.....? why would anyone be so cruel? what is there to gain? ---------i felt this was one of the best movies ever!  margaret