I wasn't exactly sure of what I was getting into when I was getting ready to watch this film. I had never read the story, so I basically went in with no idea of what it could be. What I got was one of the best kid films ever made. However, this seems to be the kind of film that will catch on twenty years from now, because our current generation just does not get it (It's pretty sad when some people hold the Alvin and the Chipmunks films in higher regard as kid films). From what I'm guessing, people seem to think this film is too complicated for kids and even some adults. This is a great film for both kids and adults alike and it teaches valuable lessons and is much smarter than most kid films I've seen in recent memory.
WHAT IT'S ABOUT: Max is a nine-year-old kid with what appears to be family problems. His mom and his sister don't seem to pay attention to him, and it appears his father died (Or left, we're not told why he's not there). Max also seems to get easily upset over things and then regrets it shortly afterward. But when he and his mom fight and he bites her, he runs away, takes a boat, sails across the ocean, and finds a mysterious island inhabited by large furry creatures. When the creatures attempt to eat him, he makes up a wild story about how he's the king of the world and they obey him. At first, being king is fun and everyone is getting along with each other through games and building a huge fort. But after a period of time, things start to fall apart and the creatures begin fighting with each other, and from then on, things go from bad to worse.
MUSIC: The music is very strange, and yet it fits the mood and is very likable. I don't have any gripes with this film's music.
ACTING: The acting is actually really good and I can't seem to think of any problems with it. Though the main character is troubled, you do eventually form attachment to him. No problems here either.
ACTION: This is mostly dialogue-focused, but it also has a lot of fun moments like when they're playing games with each other. But the seemingly simple plot is also very engaging and has a surprising level of complexity. I was rarely bored (Though there were a few moments of slow pacing) when watching this fantastic film because it had so much depth and meaning, and it was a very engaging and emotional experience.
OVERALL: If you can't take complex or depressing kid films, or if you're easily bored, then you should probably avoid it. However, if you are craving an actual good kid film and you're tired of the crap that is plaguing Hollywood and giving kid films a bad name, then watch Where the Wild Things Are because it is an amazing experience.
THE GOOD: Complex and meaningful plot, great acting, great music, engaging characters, and it's rarely ever boring.
THE BAD: There are a few moments of boredom.