Godzilla rules!!
A1. GOJIRA;
This was Godzilla's first movie, it was suppost to show the concaquences of nuclear war!
1. The theme I mentioned above was excellent!
2. Godzilla showed the world (especially Japan) what hapens when mankind falls into conflict with nature!
3. Godzilla was a great cross between a dinosaur and a mythical dragon!
4. The movie had a good rolling pace to it!
5. The movie was overall dark and brooding!
6. Godzilla looked great, if not too chubby!
7. All the actors were great!
Overall, Gojira is one fantastic piece of work, truly a masterpiece of it's time!
My grade: A+ or Five Stars!

A2. GODZILLA, KING OF THE MONSTERS;
The American version of the original masterpiece!
What I liked was:
1. Raymond Burr was an excellent edition to Japan's cast!
2. Godzilla still got his share of screening time!
3. I liked how the Americans heavily edited the movie to put Raymond Burr in it!

What I did not like was:
1. They left out more than half of the Japanese footage!
2. Some of the English dubbed dialog was corny!
Overall, this is a good replacment for Americans of the original Godzilla classic, but I recommend watching Gojira first!
My grade: A- or four-and-a-half stars!

B1. GODZILLA RAIDS AGAIN;
Not bad, but...
1. Godzilla sounds like he has a soar throat!
2. Both Godzilla and Anguirs battled in a weird way, until the end when they crunched the Osaka Castle!

What I liked;
1. They describe how Godzilla survived the oxygen destroyer... he didn't this is a new Godzilla!
2. Both Godzilla and Anguris looked great!
3. They got rid of Godzilla in an old fashioned, but good way!
Overall, a weak but interesting sequel to Godzilla!
My grade: B- or Three stars!

B2. GIGANTIS , THE FIRE MONSTER;
A very bad version of Godzilla Raids Again!
1. The American editors had no rights to the name Godzilla so they named him Gigantis instead!
2. They could have changed Godzilla's soar throat roar but they didn't!
3. When Godzilla was fighting Anguris to much of the focus was on the human characters!
4. The narration was annoying after a while!
Overall, avoid this piece of crap watch the original instead!
My grade: D- or One star!

C. GODZILLA VS. MOTHRA;
The best of Godzilla's sequels in this boxed set!
What I liked:
1. Mothra triumphed over Godzilla in the end!
2. The battle between Godzilla and Mothra were very memorable!
3. The battle between Godzilla and the Mothra larva were great!
4. Godzilla was not bouncing off the walls like he was in his last movie (King Kong vs. Godzilla)!
5. Godzilla went back to his true roots has a full fledged monster!
6. Godzilla looked scary!

What I didn't like:
Was the title Godzilla vs. The Thing! People saw a poster for this movie that made them think that Godzilla was fighting a horrifying monster, and were disappointed when they saw it was Mothra! Oh, well...
Overall, this movie was cool, both Godzilla and Mothra looked great and gave us a good show!
My grade; B+ or four stars!

D. GHIDORAH, THE THREE-HEADED MONSTER;
Not a bad way too introduce Ghidorah, but...
What I liked was:
1. Godzilla and Rodan fought for the first time!
2. Mothra showed how monsters can also make moral decisions!
3. King Ghidorah looked great!

What I didn't like was:
1. Too much focus on the human characters!
2. The big battle between King Ghidorah against Godzilla, Mothra, and Rodan was not that impressive!
Overall, not a bad movie! The characters all served a great purpose, despite being over used, and the monsters all looked great!
My grade: B or three-and-a-half stars!

E. Godzilla vs. Monster Zero;
A little goofy and weird, but in the end enjoyable!
What I liked was:
1. Godzilla and Rodan were great together against King Ghidorah (again,lol)!
2. All the human character served a great purpose!
3. The final battle for Earth was great!

What I didn't like:
1. The alien beings looked weird!
2. Why do all the alien women look the same?
3. Who would fall for the whole thing about the miracle drug that can cure all diseases?!
Overall, Despite the draw back mentioned above, this movie earned a place in my collection!
My grade: B or three-and-a-half stars!

F. GODZILLA'S REVENGE and TERROR OF MECHAGODZILLA
Exclusive to this package and I'm running out of time to write my review, so I'll be quick!
Godzilla's Revenge; My grade: C or two stars!
Terror Of Mechagodzilla: My grade: B or three-and-a-half stars!

Bottom line: If you are a Godzilla fan this package is a must have in my book!
My grade for the package: B+ or Four stars!