PREFACE: Another chapter in the Superman series. This latest one takes plays a few years after Clark's mysterious disappearance. It is revealed that he left to find out more about himself, and when he returned, he really found more out about everyone else, and what they have been doing while he was away.

CAST/CHARACTERS:

Clark Kent (Superman) - Superman Returns has a huge budget cast to go along with its huge budget visuals. Newcomer Brandon Routh is the exception. This 6'4" actor is new to the bizz, and was mostly chosen based on his similar appearance to the original Superman actor, Christopher Reeve. His performace was surprisingly good, and don't be surprised if you start seeing him in more movies. He was successfully able to show the depths of Clark and Superman's double-life, as well as the complexity of choosing to save life.

Lex Luthor - In the movie, Lex Luthor, played by Kevin Spacey, is the nemesis. With his God-complex, brilliant mind, scrude languange, and access to valuable resources, he is a very formidable adversary. Spacey does a brilliant job at playing the madman, and is probably the best acted in the film.

Lois Lane - Kate Bosworth as a brunette? Yes, that's right! Bosworth plays the family-oriented Lois in this Superman. Having now popped out a pup, she has more to risk in this film. Having a previous love interest with Superman, this creates more tension between Lois, Clark, and Lois' new man, Richard. She is probably the most complex character because she has to deal with being the family-mom, the working-mom, and the clever journalist which won her a Pulitzer. Bosworth's acting was fair, but considering the difficulty of her character, I was impressed to that degree.

Richard White - He creates a lot of friction. He is severly in love with Lois, who he's engaged to and doesn't seem thrilled, has to compete with Superman for the love of his life, and is trying to play father, unsuccessfully to Lois' child. He often gives Lois ultimatums, to which she does not appreciate, and he's really not that appealing of a character. Personally, I think he should've just kept doing X-Men 3, and not have been killed off; Cyclops suits him much better.

All the other characters were minor with no real complexities or explination, and really won't be discussed. There are other great actors in this film though, including: Eva Marie Saint, Kal Penn, and a man that's no stranger to Superman films and shows, Jack Larson.

SYNOPSIS: Superman returns after finding nothing from the remains of his Planet Krypton. When he gets there, he finds his whole world turned upside down. All the people he cared about had moved on, and one of his greatest foes was released from prison because of Superman's absence in trial. Luthor marries a terminally ill woman to get her fortune after her passing, and succeed in gaining wealth. He also went on a quest to find Superman's "Fortress of Solitude." When he got there, he discovered crystals that could create land mass. Because of his God-complex, he wanted to be able to do just that. The only thing that can stop him is Superman, but after stealing a large Kryptonite rock from a museum, Superman might not be a problem after all.

SCRIPT/DIRECTING: The film was very well executed. For an high-budget action flick, the script was very well put together, as well as very well executed. Bryan Singer, famous for the first two X-Men movies and The Usual Suspects, used his 2nd largest movie budget of all time to his advantage, creating breathtaking cinematics, and huge sets. The movie builds up and has a great climax, as well as amazing fight scenes. He makes Superman's flying look realistic and fluid, and uses many great camera views and filters to make a very beautiful film. Not up to par with The Usual Suspects, but for the type of movie it is, Superman Returns was a great addition to his resume.

DVD: I have seen the actual DVD version of the film on 720P resolution, but have not been given a chance to see the extras. The film is also in great Dolby 5.1 Surround, making you feel the action. From reading the extras, I can see that there a "Making Of..." and cast interviews, all of which should be interesting to see, considering the movie had a $270 million budget; you gotta wonder where all that money went, right?

BOTTOM LINE: Nothing incredibly new for fans to see, and no Oscars being won, but this fun action film will take you for quite a ride. An adrenaline that really does put the "Super" in Superman.