Ahh, Kristen Bell jumps from the CW to the big screen with America's recent adaptation of the horror movie, Pulse. It does me good to see my Veronica Mars' heroine on the big screen where she attempts to command the stage in this lukewarm horror movie.

Bell plays Mattie, a smart and witty girl who is dating a depressed and somewhat reclusive Josh...or so we are lead to believe. After Josh goes M.I.A. Mattie decides to visit him at his apartment to find him acting odd. He looks pale and lifeless as he tells Mattie to "wait here" while he commits suicide.

Nothing new for our Mars' heroine right? She solved the death of Lily Kane, so this one should be a cake walk. But unfortunately, Mattie doesn't have daddy dearest by her side nor the elements of reality.

After getting several messages from Josh on her computer after his death, Mattie decides to do a little detective work. She tracks his computer down to a Dexter McCarthy, and finds what is on his hard drive truly disturbing. "Do You Wanna See A Ghost," the computer asks, as it later turns out that Josh has let these creatures loose from the computer and is now accessible through any electronic device. Mattie is not going up against any rapists or has been movie stars in this one, she is going up against the dead.

So what are these creatures motives? The chance to be given life again and that's what they take from our batch of characters, including a lifeless performance by pop sensation Christina Millian. Bell's character is strong, with a backbone and a sense that reality can be bent and there is something supernatural that can't be explained. After all, how else can these suicides be constantly occuring and teachers walking in front of buses. Not to mention that the student population is dramatically on the decline and Mattie is the only one who seems to notice.

"It's coming for us. It's the end of the world," says the man at the local diner. Followed by a few jolts from our pale friends and the creepiness of hearing them through the walls, the film really can't make the audience jump like viewers would want, but it is complicated to make that happen these days. After all, everything now is "been there, done that" territory.

As for the script, it does not offer much with character background except for Mattie and Josh and pales in comparison to other characters. However, it does shed some light on the Kairo adaptation to explain the odd shadows on the walls and how the creatures are stealing the lives of others.

For 90 minutes, the movie does offer some entertainment. Minor chills, minor suspense, but huge on the computer animation makes this movie a decent film to watch for the fun of it. So unless you got a date with someone on the internet or a better movie to watch, grab some red tape and journey on what is to believed the unknown.

But you may tend to ask yourself the same question Mattie did to Dexter when first looking at Josh's computer; "Why are we watching this again?" For sure entertainment, Mattie. Sure entertainment.