when before there used to be just disney films, recent technological developments gave the opportunity for animated movie producers to release several animated films in a year that you almost cannot keep track anymore.  some of them, sadly, became mere exercises in digital graphics, mostly marketing the film through the famous hollywood actors who record the characters' voices.  i've stopped looking forward to new animated flicks of late, including monster house that i passed up when it was shown in theaters.

but unlike other animated films (mostly with talking animals) that even failed to capture my attention when shown on the small screen, monster house was unlike anything i've seen before.

the plot is typical - three prepubescent youngsters try to "kill" an evil house from eating halloween trick-or-treaters.  but the typical ends there.  the movie is filled with witty dialog and three-dimensional characters in a setting that has both its light and dark moments.  there are no cookie-cutter characters here - well, maybe the protagonists were cut off from the same mold as your average middle class suburban kids, but they were portrayed so naturally as far as movie tweeners go, bringing in an added sprinkling of spice in them.  the frontline bad guy nebbercracker was the typical grumpy recluse who drives away kids from his front lawn, but later in the film reveals a rich story that centers on the plot.

everyone else in between was there to bring in the token comic relief - the goth babysitter, her rocker boyfriend, the video game dork, the police officers - all in a naturally amusing manner that was never contrived.

i was aghast learning from imdb.com that ours is the only country where this movie had a G rating.  for instance, there was a minor scene where rocker boyfriend attempted to make out with babysitter on the sofa.  and while the main characters seemed generally well-adjusted, the story behind the house seemed too dark for young kids.  the house looked really scary, for one.  even scarier than the creatures in jumanji, which had a PG rating.  the film also explores adult issues, complicated grey areas like what to do if your loved one became an evil vengeful spirit, or moral questions such as "does this movie unintentionally portray obese people as evil/scary?" that can get ingrained on impressionable minds.  while the themes of unconditional love, devotion and letting go can be for all ages, it was shown so poignantly in the movie with adult sensibilities.

well, i don't know.  i watched this movie as an adult and enjoyed it very much.  it lacked the air of happy-ever-after that most children's flicks are known for, but at least for the kids, the movie ended up happily.  that is, for the neighborhood, not exactly for nebbercracker who, though seemingly happy himself for his newfound freedom, would naturally have to deal with his grief and maybe regret not being able to live his life for 40 years (plus, where would he live now?).  to balance off these complications, the last part where all the toys were returned and all the people who were eaten up managed to climb out of the pit was a nice touch.  definitely for the young ones' benefit.

memorable quote from the supporting character skull (the videogame enthusiast), attempting to impart some words of wisdom:
"In my travels to video game and comic book conventions, I've seen many strange and wondrous things".