This movie seduced me no daught about it.

WARNING THERE MAY BE SPOILERS

It takes place in the 16th century India.  It's a tale about two girls.  They've been best friends for life.  Tara (Sarita Choudhury) is a princess, Maya (Indira Varma)is a servent girl.  But things turn sour years later, when the women are grown up.  On Tara's wedding night, Raj Singh (Naveen Andrews)is seduced by Maya's good looks, even though my dad thought Tara was better looking then Maya, and Tara, who is jealous of this, spits in Maya's face.  As a plan of revenge, Maya takes the bride's groom to bed with her.  Oh it gets much better, not!  Maya then confesses to Tara that she did it with Raj on the wedding night.  Tara who is devistaded, kicks Maya out of the palace.  Someone who is even more devistaded is Tara's perverted hunchback brother, he has an infatuation with Maya, yuck!

Anyways, Maya is out in the real world now, and she wants to understand the fine arts of seduction, so she finds this school, with the teacher named Rasa Devi (Rekha)  Rasa teaches Maya the fine arts of seduction with the book Kama Sutra, suprise, suprise.  Well Maya also finds a love interest too, he is called Jai Kumar (Ramon Tikaram).  But at the time, he's only interested in scupluring her, oh yah he's a stone sculptor.  Then out of nowhere, the Raj shows up and wants Jai to sculp the woman he lusts for, that would be Maya.  So they both go to the palace with him, and he even challenges Jai to a friendly male-bonding wrestling match, but just how friendly are we talking here?

Well now Maya is the top concubine for Raj.  Tara is insainly jealous, and she can't believe that she's married to a opium smoking playboy who lusts after Maya.  Maya even tries to rekindel her lost friendship with Tara, and at one time even helps her seduce her husband.  But that doesn't happen until the near end though.  But Jai is finally realising that he's in love with Maya, but it's kind of too late, because Maya is the top concubine of Raj.  And when Raj finds out that Maya is still in love with Jai, he plots his horrible revenge.  And perhaps it's Maya's presence in everyone's lives that leads to their destrution and the destruction of the monarcy.

This is an interesting film, anyone who likes the Bollywood films, or films by Mira Nair, this film is for you!