This film won an Oscar for Best Editing! Wow, it must have been a really bad year for editing. This movie wastes so much time it's hard to stay awake at times. There are too many shots that have nothing to do with the movie or develop the plot in any way. There are extended shots of Bullitt ordering at a restaurant, Bullitt buying TV dinners at a grocery store, Bullitt getting breakfast at the hospital, Bullitt talking to his girlfriend about pipe, ahhhh! There are also too many shots of people doing nothing but walking, walking down the hallway, walking down the street, walking through the door, walking to church, walking up the stairs walking walking walking! It is amazing. It takes an hour for the movie to do what should take only 15 minutes.

Probably the cheesiest scene in the whole movie is when Bullitt's girlfriend gets upset after she follows the police into a hotel room and finds him in there with a dead body. (Don't ask me why she does, or why the police just let people on the street follow them into a crime scene.) Well anyway she gets all upset and says "I thought I knew you, but I am not so sure anymore. Do you let anything reach you? I mean really reach you? Or are you so used to it by now that nothing really touches you." And goes on and on about how callous he is and doesn't want to be reminded of the world he lives in.

Please, give me a break; he is a police officer for heaven sake. They see dead people all the time, and what did she expect, him to break down and cry every time he sees a dead body?

It was a pathetic attempt at sentimentality.

The only redeeming qualities of this movie are Steve McQueen's cool acting, the car chase scene and seeing some nice sports cars from the 1960's.

But, the plot is so thin if all of the walking, eating and conversations about pipe were left out this movie could have been half as long. This movie reminded me of a bad TV show.

I considered giving it two stars just for Steve, the chase scene the nice cars and the film does at times has a nice stylized feel to it. But two stars is just slightly below average and this film is way below average, Perhaps a 1.5.