I'm not sure why everyone is dissecting this movie. Its not Shakespeare people! This movie is nothing more than an entertaining thriller. Sebastian (Kevin Bacon) plays a genius scientist who uses himself as a guinea pig when his science team successfully figure out how to bring back animals who are made invisible. Sebastian and his team in a meeting with the Pentagon fail to tell them that they have figured out how to bring animals back from invisbility. In other words, Sebastian want to keep that knowledge and power to himself despite the government funding his research. Sebastian then volunteers to become invisible as the first human guinea pig. Sebastian is successfully made invisible after nearly dying on the table, but once his viatals are stablized, the team is unable to bring him back to normal. Days and weeks pass then all hell breaks lose. The movie clearly explains why Sebastian goes crazy but everyone posting here is questioning it. After Sebastian's team fail to bring him back to normal and he is locked in the facility, he starts to lose his mind, conscience, morals, everthing. Get it? Hollow Man. Anyway it's the affects of the invisibility serum that causes psychosis which I thought is clearly explained in the film. After Sebastian sneaks away from the facility they warn Sebastian. In his anger he kills a dog in the facility and that's when Elisabeth Shue and Josh Brolin decide to tell the Pentagon and the rest of the team finds out the Pentagon doesn't know about Sebastian becoming invisible. At this point Sebastian is completely psychotic and starts killing everyone who knows (the science team) to stay invisible. I watch this movie every time I catch it on HBO and I'm buying the DVD when I get a chance. I enjoy this movie and of course watching Josh Brolin. Elisabeth Shue plays Sebastian's former girlfriend and the one who saves the day in the film without giving it away too much. I love this movie and the great performances in it and don't get what all the negative comments are about. If you want to see a thrilling movie that gets more fast paced and exciting as it nears its climax then I recommend this movie. I love it.