I have long been a fan of the work Don Bluth and Gary Goldman.  For those of you that have never heard of them, they are two film directors/producers, who have produced classic animated films, such as The Secret of NIMH, An American Tail, The Land Before Time, All Dogs Go To Heaven, and Anastasia.  Bluth has been considered one of the premier animators of his time, dating back to his days with Disney, where he worked on The Fox and The Hound, Robin Hood, The Rescuers, and Pete's Dragon.  His use of the traditional hand-drawn method of animation was almost unrivaled in my opinion, and even when he chose to adhere to more modern conventional methods, he excelled.  One film where he used newer technology, combining his preferred hand drawing methods with CGI, was Titan A.E, released in the summer of 2000.

In review, I would say that the film was a complete success.  It was kind of a cross between Water World and Star Wars.  The film took place more than a thousand years into the future, a time when the human race was on the verge extinction.  The protagonist of the film, Cale, voiced by Matt Damon, is the son of a scientist who built a craft that could potentially save mankind from the forces that are attempting to extinguish it.  A group of both aliens and humans whose mission is to revitalize mankind approach Cale.  This group is led by the manly, Han Solo type, Korso, who is voiced by Bill Pullman.  Cale is unbelieving of this, and it takes the revelation that there is a map on his hand to convince him to join in on the adventure.

The film combines all of the elements that you could ask for in an action movie.  The animation is superb; Bluth really outdid himself in this one.  The scenes with the Ice Rings are pure evidence of why animation is superior to live action is some types of film.  In addition, the action sequences are suspenseful and thrilling.  The alien race, the Drej, are invincible and consist of pure energy, so they make for a good battle scene.  The plot is executed very well, with plenty of foreshadowing, mystery, and tragedy.  Of course, there is a romance within the story, as well.  Matt Damon's character falls for Akima, who is voiced by none other than Drew Barrymore.  Their affections for each other throughout the film, and it is done in a very cute and flirtatious way.  All in all, the movie hit all of its spots, and the voice acting was great, headlined by Damon and Pullman.

Yet despite the high quality of the movie and its immense budget, it failed to garner much attention at the box office.  Internationally, it took in under 40 million dollars even though it had a budget of 75 million.  I have always been perplexed as to why this was the case, but it has come into the light after a few years of thought.  It was a very well-received film, with Ebert giving it a positive review.  But then I think back, and I realize that I did not even go and see it in theaters.  I'd say that one reason its commercial success was so underwhelming was because it failed to target the demographic that wanted to see it.  Looking back, the marketing team for the film strictly sold the film as a hardcore action movie.  By doing this, they lost the core younger audience, who had always adored Bluth films.  It lost the kids who grew up watching A Troll In Central Park or An American Tail.  All of the kids who loved Fifel did not think that this was a movie for them, so they never begged mommy and daddy to bring them to the movies.  The marketers instead targeted a group of teenage boys, firmly believing that they could sell an animated action movie to a group of kids who care more about their reputations than anyone else on this planet.  In doing this, Titan A.E. failed to incorporate that this quality film, possibly Bluth's magnum opus, had aspects of mystery, romance, fantasy, and even nostalgia within its plot.  Instead of marketing this as family film along the lines of an Anastasia or an Aladdin, they tried to turn this movie into something it wasn't.  This does not in any way lessen the quality of the film, but it does explain why it failed to be the hit it should have been.  In the years since its release, Titan A.E. has become a cult classic, and it is constantly on television, and you can even watch it online on sites like Hulu.  In the end, this movie may have been the commercial failure that prevents Bluth from ever producing again, yet it remains a classic.  Bluth is getting up there in age now; some production company needs to bring Bluth and his team aboard and let them work their magic.  Otherwise, we may never get to have another experience like the first time we saw The Land Before Time ever again.