What a wondefull movie!!  It is an excellent depiction of the basic human needs ; Love, Companionship, Courage, and Loyalty. It was so wonderfull to finally see a movie with NO SEX! NO CRUDE HUMOR! NO VIOLENCE! LITTLE OR NO SWEARING! AND ONE THAT ACTUALLY MADE YOU LOVE LIFE ITSELF!  See, movies don't need all that vulgarity, violence, profanity and immorality to be a GREAT MOVIE!  If you're a movie goer who is critical of hollywood's immoral movies, and if you don't see and support movies like "CAST AWAY", then you have no right to your critisism!!!  I loved the fact that the director showed the basic human need for companionship though Hank's friendship with the volleyball.  Some reviewers have said here they thought that that was stupid, or they thought it was funny when he lost the ball in the ocean.  Well,  lets see what they would do if it was they that were all alone for over 4 years with no one to talk to!!! I don't think that they would ever admitt the number of,"inaniment or aninment (like animals)" friends that they had made!!!!  One other key thing that no other reviewer here has pointed out to my knowledge is Loyalty.  The part in the movie I am speaking about is at near the end of the movie when Hanks's true love (PLAYED BY HELEN HUNT) remains loyal to her new husband and children.  HOW ADMIRABLE!!!  The last thing I loved about the show is when Tom Hanks explained that sometimes all that you can do to keep going in life when all the chips are down is to simply keep breathing, and take one day at a time.  THAT IS SO TRUE!! DON'T YOU THINK?  The only thing I would have added to the show if I were the director is that I would have instead of Hanks loving a volleyball that could not love him back, I would have had him draw closer to God, who can AND WOULD HAVE give him guidance, hope, and love beyond measure!  I love this show!  Dear Hollywood,  keep making movies like this.  These are the ones that will make America's families strong, and individuals great, NOT WORSE!!!