First of all, let me just say that I am in L.O.V.E with T.I so this review is coming from a biased point of view. I have loved T.I since I heard his first album "I'm Serious", and being from the Dirty South, I could relate to a lot of what was going on in this movie. Now, I can agree with the person who said that it does have a lot of "Roll Bounce" elements. However, like I said, I would've probably still loved it if it were a musical just because T.I has the lead. Frankly, with this being his first movie, I think he did pretty good. Of course, he'll have to grow and mature as an actor because we've already seen what T.I the rapper can do, but he certainly has potential that's for sure, or like we say in the South... "FA SHO!". I do think that all the females in this movie were terrible actresses though, and that includes everyone from Lauren London, on down to the 2 twin girls. To be honest, I won't pretend like it's the best movie ever, but when you like T.I as much as I do you won't care. True enough, it's another "hood" classic, but being from the "hood" or the "ghetto" I can appreciate the realness. I get sooo sick of seeing "Hollywood" film-makers dumbing down the "hood" movies for entertainment value when they know absolutely nothing about it. This movie was acted-out, Produced, and Directed by ATL's own, and by the people who lived it. Producers include; Tionne "T-Boz" Watkins and Dallas Austin, and it's also Directed by Chris Robinson. I thought it was cool that they had a lot of cameo appearances by different artists in the movie. Like, Monica played the waitress at the cafe', and Jazze Pha played the DJ at the rink. In fact, I think that Mykelti Williamson is the biggest actor in this movie. At any rate, it's from the "hood", and about the "hood", and it's real. It's not all overly dramatized like they tend to depict it in the movies all the time. Like, if you come to the "hood" immediately you get robbed or killed, and that's why I liked it because it actually shows that you can hang out at the local skating rink, have fun with your homies, and all the thick "cornbread and cabbage" eating chicks. Don't get me wrong, it still shows life in the "hood" by showing us how a money hungry youth can get caught up in the wrong lifestyle of selling drugs to get rich quick, and what the consequences of choosing this lifestyle for yourself can potentially be. Anybody from the "hood" knows that sh!! is real. It shows that you have wanna-be's coming across the tracks faking the funk when they're really from the suburbs, but they want desperately to be down. Anybody from the "hood" knows that sh!! is real too. Obviously, it's not for everyone, so some will love it, and some will hate it, but I loved it because we went about 15 deep, and we all sat there and cracked up off some of the stuff they were saying, and so did everybody else.