A interesting research project would be to see how many people who have praised Waiting for Superman were also up in arms about An Inconvenient Truth, and vice versa.

Guggenheim has a history of playing fast and loose with statistics, twisting them to fit his agenda, and he does it again here. The most glaring being his claims that 70 percent of eighth-grade students cannot read at grade level. This is flatly wrong. Guggenheim takes numbers from the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP)and bends them in a way that shows he is either a liar or ignorant. First, NAEP doesn't measure performance in terms of grade-level achievement so that was completely made up by him. Secondly he counts everyone who scored below proficient in his claim of not reading to grade level. According to him those who scored at basic, which would be the average, are below grade level. So in his world a C is failing. What people should be concerned about is the 25% of kids that are below basic.

While praising Finalnd, Guggenheim fails to mention that Finland has one of the strongest teachers unions in the world. They have much stronger teacher training and support then we do in this country.

The main point of Guggenheim's argument is that money isn't the answer, a good teacher is, and charter schools are what will save the country. First off, right in the beginning he mentions that only 1 out 5 charters are great schools. The vast majority are either as successful or worse than the local public school. The film never mentions that the idea of charter schools actually came from the teachers union as a way to help kids who weren't successful in the traditional school setting.

The charters he mentions as success stories all have resources above the public schools. Take SEED for example. Seed is a great success story, but it also spends $35,000 per year per student, 3x what a public school spends. I'd love to hear someone go to a tea party rally and suggest spending that kind of money to build boarding schools for inner-city kids.

Geoffrey Canada is another superstar. Canada has set up the Harlem's Children Zone, and deserves all the credit he gets for doing that. The film conveniently leaves out, in addition to public money, he has a group of private donors that have given him hundreds of millions of dollars to set up a social service system in Harlem that gives kids and parents free health care, dental, and counseling programs. The film also never mentions how his first group of middle schoolers were booted out of the program because his board wasn't happy with the progress they were making.

And finally we come to Michelle Rhee, who's record and achievements seem to become more fraudulent by the day. Rhee's claims about her own students achievements have proven to be a lie, she's even admitted she exaggerated her achievements. Now comes word that her high achieving DC schools were successful, not because of her work, but because of fraud. Coynes, the poster child of her reforms, had an average of 12.7 wrong to right erasure marks on their tests, the average for other schools was less than one.

There's no doubt that our schools could be better. But the type of reforms that people like Michelle Rhee, Bill Gates, and Arne Duncan are pushing will do much more damage in the long run.