I remember this show back when I was a kid. I was an absolute nut over the show then. When I found out it was on DVD now, I had to get it to add to my collection of animation. Boy, am I glad I did. The old adventures that thrilled me back then, along with the sleek automotive: the Mach 5 was well worth waiting for on DVD. This first DVD collection contains episodes 1 through 11, which-basically-tells how Speed Racer came to be who he is. See, Speed Racer wants to become a professional racer, despite the fact his father doesn't want him to. When Pops quits his job after the company he'd worked for had declined the production of a modified engine for his new racing car, the Mach 5, he thinks of creating his own family owned company, Racer Motors.  Speed takes it upon himself to obtain the money for Pops to produce this modified engine. Using his driving skills to do so, Speed decides to enters a race. Pops conceals his plans for the Mach 5's new engine on a windshield. When the company he worked for finds out, they go after Speed to get it back. Speed soon realizes that the Pops had hidden the plans on the windshield and fights to prevent them from getting it. He shatters the windshield so the company doesn't get it. Speed ends up winning the race but doesn't get the money due to the company's interference. So, Speed apologizes to Pops for this and, thus begins, the adventures of Speed Racer. I really love this first collection. If I had to pick a character, besides Speed, that I loved..it'd have to be Racer X. Him and his car, The Shoooting Star, were awesome.

Admittedly, you can tell the show was made a long time ago. It looks nothing like cartoons of today. Rightly so, as todays' cartoon are digitally done...instead of the cell animation of old. This might disappoint some of you out there who have recently seen Speed Racer(the motion picture) and are expecting this to be something newer. The vocal work is a bit dated as well but nothing to get upset about.

At any rate, I, personally, loved these old cartoons. They thrill me now just as much as they did then.