

Director: Don Siegel
Format: Color
Studio: Universal Studios
Video Release Date: May 23, 1995 
Cast:
Clint Eastwood ... Deputy Sheriff Walt Coogan
Lee J. Cobb ... Det. Lt. McElroy, NYPD
Susan Clark ... Julie Roth (probation officer)
Tisha Sterling ... Linny Raven (Ringerman's girlfriend)
Don Stroud ... James Ringerman
Betty Field ... Mrs. Ellen Ringerman
Tom Tully ... Sheriff McCrea (Piute County, Arizona)
Melodie Johnson ... Millie (Coogan's girlfriend)
James Edwards ... Sgt. Wallace (stakeout cop)
Rudy Diaz ... Running Bear
David Doyle ... Pushie (tavern owner)
Louis Zorich ... Taxi driver
Meg Myles ... Big Red
Marjorie Bennett ... Mrs. Fowler (little old lady charging rape)
Seymour Cassel ... Joe (young hood)
John Coe ... Bellboy
Skip Battyn ... Omega (customer at Pigeon-Toed Orange Peel)
Albert Popwell ... Wonderful Digby (customer at Pigeon-Toed Orange Peel)
Conrad Bain ... Madison Avenue man
James Gavin ... Ferguson 
Albert Henderson ... Desk sergeant
James McCallion ... Golden Hotel room clerk
Syl Lamont ... Apartment manager
Jess Osuna ... Prison hospital guard
Jerry Summers ... Good Eyes
Antonia Rey ... Mrs. Amador
Marya Henriques ... Go-go dancer at Pigeon-Toed Orange Peel
James Dukas ... Prison hospital doctor
Larry Duran ... Zig Zag
Andy Epper ... Pool player
George Fargo ... Gay boy at Pigeon-Toed Orange Peel
Scott Hale ... Dr. Scott
Ted Jacques ... Detective
James Joyce ... Man in Pigeon-toed Orange Peel
Diki Lerner ... Gay boy at Pigeon-toed Orange Peel
James McEachin ... Man
James Oliver ... Hip typeq
Robert Osterloh ... Deputy
Clifford A. Pellow ... Waiter
Allen Pinson ... Whippy
Doug Reid ... Prison hospital guard
Al Ruban ... Detective
Don Siegel ... Elevator passenger
Kristoffer Tabori ... Elevator passenger
Clark Warren ... Plainclothesman
David Brandon ... Hippie boy
Kathleen O'Malley ... Woman
Diana Rose ... Psychedelic paint girl
Colleen Thornton ... Hippie twin
Morreen Thornton ... Hippie twin
Eve Brent ... Hooker
Constance Davis ... Mother 
Arizona Deputy Sheriff Coogan (Eastwood)comes to New York City to transport a prisoner, James Ringerman (Don Stroud ) back to Arizona for a suspected murder when he runs into lack of cooperation from Det. Lt. McElroy, NYPD (Lee J. Cobb), a cynical, overworked NYPD cop used to runarounds and bureaucracy.  A typical provincial New Yorker who thinks New York is the center of the universe. he continually refers to
Coogan as a "cowboy", "Tex", and other diminishing names, threatening him with jail for interference, and informing him that he is "just another private citizen."  It is apparent that "private citizens" get little respect in NYC from the police.

Coogan takes it upon himself to give the NYPD a lesson in extradition, Arizona style.  An entertaining way to spend a couple of hours.  I recommend it, like almost any other Eastwood film.

Joseph (Joe) Pierre

author of Handguns and Freedom...their care and maintenance
and other books.
