It's great that Universal have released five of Mae West's movies in this good value DVD set. Mae West first made it to Hollywood in 1932 when she was nearly 40. Paramount Pictures had offered her a supporting role in a George Raft vehicle "Night After Night"(included here). Mae insisted on writing her own dialogue and, although she appears for only fifteen minutes towards the end, she was the hit of the movie.  Sashaying in to Raft's nightclub Mae hands her wrap to the hatcheck girl. "Goodness what beautiful diamonds!" says the girl. "Goodness had nothing to do with it" says Mae.

Paramount were anxious to cash in and asked Mae to star in "She Done Him Wrong", a remake of her play "Diamond Lil".  It was the biggest grossing film of 1933. Her co-star was Cary Grant who also appeared in Mae's second film "I'm No Angel" in which she plays Tira a circus lion tamer whose act hits the big time when she puts her head in the lion's mouth.  This is a contemporary satire on social climbing ("It's not the men in my life that counts, it's the life in my men") and is, I think, her best film. "I wish I could trust you" says Cary. "You can" says Mae, "hundreds have". Cary: "Do you mind if I get personal?" Mae "Go right ahead, I don't mind if you get familiar". To another potential conquest Mae says "I like sophisticated men to take me out". He replies "Well, I'm not really sophisticated." Oh, says Mae "Well, you're not really out yet either".

After this the censors descended and Mae's next film in 1934 was changed from "It Ain't No Sin" to "Belle of the Nineties". Next came "Goin' To Town", where Mae inherits an oil well and heads off to Buenos Aires to lasso (literally) an English aristocrat. This film is often overlooked so it's great that it's on this DVD set, as it's a corker.

Next came "Klondike Annie" (1936) her most controversial film; Mae played a nightclub hostess, on the run from the police, who disguises herself as a preacher at a Mission in Alaska. Mae wasn't trying to mock religion although she does say "when I'm caught between two evils I generally pick the one I never tried before" but move away from her popular persona to try something with more depth and meaning.

After this Paramount Pictures gave up supporting Mae in her attempts to out fox the censors and she only made two more films for them: "Go West Young Man" (1937) with Randolph Scott ("A thrill a day keeps the chill away") and "Every Day's a Holiday" (1938).  She was approached by Universal studios in 1939 to co-star with W C Fields in a comedy western "My Little Chickadee". Mae wrote more great lines for herself: "when you've got nothing better to do and plenty of time to do it, come up" and "every man I meet wants to protect me, I can't figure out what from".