This is a great movie.  No doubt there.  It is a no brainer action packed flic with little plot, but it is very engaging.
What I have seen is the biggest dispute is over quality issues between the VHS and DVD.  Granted, the VHS is a better quality version, and yes, the DVD is terrible in regards to the brightness of the picture once the movie goes underground (really, you can't see anything it's so dark).  There is a simple solution, and that is to turn the brightness on your television all the way up.  Having done this, you'll find that the movie is bright enough so that you can not only watch it without developing a headache, but you'll be able to make out the finest details on the screen.  So don't let the quality of this print divert you from getting it.

As for the movie itself I'll say a little.

It's your typical 1980s post-apocalyptic film really.  Lots of desert landscapes filled with strange people, strange buildings, and strange customs, much like Mad Max.  Of central importance to this new society is its national pastime, a brutal blood sport where athletes called juggers beat the hell out of each other in a contest to impale a dog skull onto a spike.  It's like soccer if the Romans had invented it.

The film concerns itself with one particular group of juggers and their attempt to compete against the League.  The League are the best juggers around who enjoy a life of opulence and leisure when they are not fighting in the vast underground complex called the Nine Cities.  Here, the movie is a lot like Rocky with the underdogs coming in to face the much more feared League, juggers so talented they have never lost a match.

What this movie comes down to is some great one-liner dialogue, very well choreographed fight scenes, and some terrific set design, particularly in the Nine Cities.  The Nine Cities are dark, depressing, a life of turmoil and despair, a bit reminiscent of the futuristic scenes in Terminator.

The end of the movie is one of the ultimate endings in the sci-fi action genre.  You really have to check it out.  Every detail just adds so much to the last bloody match where these juggers beat one another to pulp, chains are flying, heads crushing, meat being tenderized by multiple kicks and punches.  You just can't beat it.  It's like a darker version of A Clockwork Orange.

So the Blood of Heroes is a lot like some weird hybrid of Mad Max, Rocky, Terminator, and A Clockwork Orange.  I'd say that's good enough reason to watch it.