I like Kubrick`s Dr Strangelove, so it was nice to hear about the new anamorphic widescreen version (the 40th anniversary). I have always disliked the full frame version because of the visible boom mikes (5 in all). They totally ruin the magic for me, so i was really looking forward to see the movie without them...

However, there is something strange (no pun intended!) about the new anamorphic transfer... I heard rumours about this before i got the disc myself.

If you compare the full frame version (take any of the previously released dvd`s) and the new widescreen version, you will see that the new one is way off center. For an example, go to chapter 18 at 61,53 minutes (the radar screen). In the full frame version, the image is in center, but here it`s clearly off. It`s only slighly cropped on top (about 1,50.1), but a big chunk is missing at the bottom (looks like 1,85.1). Way more has been cut at the bottom than is actually possible on a normal 1.66 crop. Take any scene in the film, and you will see this - it`s very obvious. It seems like the transfer has been made way too high, and 3 boom mikes are still visible on top:

Chapter 5 at 15.09 minutes (very slight)

Chapter 15 at 51.10 minutes (pretty bad!)

Chapter 22 at 75.02 minutes (very slight)

So what is this? Is the full frame version missing a lot of information on top (justifing the now "high" framing), or is the new widescreen version a screw up?!? To me, it seems like the latter. If you look at chapter 12 (the battle outside Burpelson air force base) on the full frame disc, you can actually see the "edge" of the film to the left in some shots, and the round "corners" can bee seen at top and bottom (use your computer  - your tv set will probably cut off extreme left and right). There is only a sliver less on top in these shots. This indicates that the film is more or less in center on the full frame releases, and that there is very little  information missing. Still, these scenes are cropped like anything else on the 40th anniversary disc - just a little on top, and heavily at the bottom.

This movie was often cropped to 1,85 in theaters, and i really cant see how that could have been done when i see the new transfer. That would for example remove Jack. D. Ripper`s nameplate and Buck Turgidson`s "world targets in megadetahs" book. I think the movie actually is cropped to about 1,85.1 now - but only at the bottom...

If i crop the full frame version of Dr Strangelove like the Lolita DVD (a proper 1,66.1), it looks much more correct (not so "tight" at the bottom, and more in center), and all the boom mikes are gone too, so i believe this is how Dr. Strangelove should look when it`s properly framed. If this is the case, i hope Columbia catches the glitch and corrects in on the next release (it has to be a next release then i guess...).

Anyone?