What is it about the English and their comedy?  What makes it superior to what we produce in America?  Great writing, great directing, and great acting are the answer. Not to say that we here in the United States don't turn out some wonderful comedies. We do, such wonderful works as "Something's Got To Give", and "Bullets Over Broadway"  and "Hairspray" come to mind, but there is a little magic in the British that we lack.
  "Calendar Girls" is a gem of a movie chock full of truth, humor, tragedy and triumph. Based on a true story of a group of ladies in the country wide women's group The W.I. who when tragedy strikes one of them decide to raise money for a charity by posing naked, oh sorry, nude for a W.I. calendar. It is all a perfect mix of drama and sidesplitting high comedy mixed up into taste buns that are just the right size.
  Helen Murrin, who one of the U.K.'s most impressive actress, heads the wonderful cast. She is a pure delight as we watch her lead the ladies through the process from idea to stardom. She has such a wonderful way of listening and letting us in on it. She is a master of accents as well. One only need compare this performance with her "Roman Spring Of Mrs. Stone" to see what I mean. She is a joy to watch and a treasure for us all to enjoy. Her best friend is played by the equally talented Julie Walters who turns in a pearl of a performance. She too is a master of the craft of acting for the screen. In her sweet careworn face we witness the love and care with which she gives us her character.  The entire supporting cast is a delight to watch as well. I would love to single them all out but I will leave their charms for you to discover on your own.
  On The DVD are a couple of mini-documentaries about the real Calendar Girls. These are well worth watching after you see the film and round out the whole affair perfectly.
  The wonderful script is by Tim Firth and Juliette Towhidi and in the hands of director Nigel Cole it sparkles like a diamond.