Personal opinion: The reviewer identified as Octavius really missed the point on this film! He/she seems to need secure and sanctioned rules for structuring a work of art. It reminds me of those critics who railed against Beethoven because he "broke the rules" of the self-appointed authorities who could neither hear nor imagine anything beyond Haydn.

I agree with Octavius about Philip Glass's ho-hum meandering music. But Glass's music is not at all analogous to this film. I hold a doctorate in music composition and from that perspective, Glass's music evokes virtually nothing for me. And it isn't the structure or "post-modernist" emptiness of it. So much of it just lies there doing nothing and going nowhere.

This film is not like that at all. It also does not suggest that anyone is a true hero or villain. It does show the tragedy and the existential angst of war and its aftermath. It does evoke the indecipherable mystery of attraction between people who "shouldn't" be attracted to each other (especially according to what seem to be Octavius's inviolable "rules" for human behavior). It does confront the viewer with the reality of the inexplicable in human relationships. It does not let the viewer avoid the reality of the myriad, compelling, and beckoning forces of the human psyche, conscious and/or unconscious. Those forces can create certain attractions between people that are virtually irresistible. To me, Octavius appears not to understand this. Or maybe he/she just finds it too painful to accept. But, I'm just guessing here and I admit that I digress.

Evidently, Octavius and others seem to believe that tight structural control and officially sanctioned modes of artistic expression are sacrosanct. Within certain styles, it would be hard to disagree. But, I don't agree here. If the structurally sacrosanct were held inviolable for every style, then nothing outside the conventional could ever be attempted. No new forms or directions could be born. Thankfully, that is not the case in art as a whole.  Hiroshima Mon Amour, especially for the time in which it was conceived, steps outside the conventional to explore expressive realms of passion and angst seldom seen in films preceding it.

This is a great film. I highly recommend it.