There is one thing about this movie that I have just been dying to get off my chest, and I am surprised nobody else has really mentioned this in thier reviews.

The nexus storyline--lame but I can get past that; lot of lame storylines show up in the series and the movies

Scotty believing Kirk died and then showing up in Relics believing he is alive--I can get past this any fan of the star trek series knows that the story line has never maintained true continuity.

The lame way in which Kirk dies--I can get past this as well; especially after reading "The Return" by William Shatner--gives much better ending to the Kirk character

Picard emotional over his brother and nephew dying--I can get past this (it was family,close or not, who wouldn't be emotional)

The part about this movie that just kills me, the part that no matter how many times I have seen this movie, that just makes me sick to my stomach is the way in which the Enterprise D is destroyed.  The Klingons discovering the shield frequency and changing thier weapons to match is fine.  However, the crew that we watched in the 7 years of the series would be smart enough to rotate the shield frequency after the first shot.  It was done in "Best of both Worlds"  But ok fine.  The part that kills me is when the warp core starts to breach, and Geordi just says "There is a warp core breach in progress, there is nothing I can do".  Now how many times throughout the 7 year series have we seen Geordi perform miracles to save the ship, including warp core breaches, and now all of a sudden "there is nothing he can do?"

I can understand wanting to destroy the enterprise so in future movies we can see a new enterprise that is all well and fine.  But come on come up with a better way to to destroy the D.  It is like they just wanted to get rid of the D in this movie and it didn't matter how lame it was destroyed, or how silly the story line for how it gets destroyed.

Throughout the series we saw these Klingon sisters having support within the Klingon empire, why not have them have 1/2 dozen ships that are loyal to them take on the enterprise, and the D of course seperates to give more than one target, and in the ensuing battle maybe one section gets destroyed or something like that.  But just to have a warp core breach and there is nothing they can do like eject the core, which we have seen them talk about so often, and just allow the ship to blow up, was so stupid.  Makes me wonder how these writers have a job, someone who has never even seen an episode of Star Trek could have come up with a better way to destroy that ship.