This miniseries is the story of a self absorbed, self centered PB  (professional beauty) or super model as she would be known today.  Lillie Langtry later became an actress but from what little else I know about her, she couldn't hold a candle to Sarah Bernhardt or Lillian Russell.

The people who deserved her kindness and consideration didn't get it and the ones who weren't deserving of it did.  She sold her soul for jewelry, beautiful clothes, property, race horses, houses and the most intoxicating of all, social standing.  In order to continue to receive expensive jewelry from one of her many lovers, she would willingly take a beating so violent that she had to be hospitalized.  Her husband, Edward Langtry, played stunningly well by Anton Rogers, although a buffoon who lost his fortune shortly after their marriage, died alone in an asylum due to alcoholism.  Rather than consider his feelings of being overshadowed by her popularity and adultery w/the Prince of Wales (Bertie), she chose to buy him off by sending him a small amount of money each month until his death.  Oscar Wilde, the poet and playwright, played to perfection by Peter Egan, hardly worthy of the attention that she fawned on him, was taken care of by Lillie after his bankruptcy 'til the day he died.  Even her own father, a minister who was disgraced and forced to leave his church due to misconduct w/women, didn't receive any help from Lillie.  She'd say that "it's about time that I do something for him" but she never did.  Lillie grew up w/6 brothers and I feel that contributed to her attitude towards men, that they're to be used and cast aside when finished w/them.  I think she felt that her father deserved what he got as did her husband and that she'd make herself look good in the eyes of others but would do as little as possible to help them.  As a result of her reckless and thoughtless behavior throughout her life, her illegitimate daughter born to the Prince of Austria, was passed off as her niece who later learned her true parentage and did not speak to her mother again until just before Lillie's own passing.  Lillie never got to enjoy her daughter or grandchildren due to her own disregard for the feelings and lives of others.  She died alone and forgotten, a sad but just ending to a woman who cared for no one but herself.

Francesca Annis played the part of Lillie and although others have given her rave reviews, I feel that each part Annis plays is the same flat portrayal w/only a name change.  Compare her acting in Madame Bovary and you'll see what I mean.  She was a stunning beauty in her day so she may have been cast w/that reason uppermost.  Others outshined her in this production but I gave it 5 stars anyhow because I truly enjoyed it.