A few thoughts --

1.  Giorgio Moroder introduced me to the classic film METROPOLIS.  Not personally, mind you, but via this fascinating version of the film.  At the time of 1984 I wasn't a fan of silent movies, but having Donna Summer's producer at the helm -- the man who penned some top ten feature film soundtracks -- ABSOLUTELY grabbed my interest.  And if Freddie Mercury had signed on for a song, this warranted a looksie.  The film simply blew me away.  It was everything I felt that ever needed to be said in any movie -- all in one.  Some believe the music is painfully dated now, but I can tell you half of it was even cringe worthy in 1984.  What most critics don't get -- and let's be frank -- the film itself has as many cringe worthy moments.  Maria grabbing her boobs, the factory man grabbing his crotch (?), Fredor running around like a boy pretending he's the Flash.  And so the music -- at times -- isn't any odder than the music.

2.  If you've never seen this version of the film and are willing to give it a try, let me assure you that some music moments -- once heard -- will stay with your memory of the film for good.  I've seen the two theatrical releases of the restored METROPOLIS and during each sitting I mentally ignored the repetitive as hell tepid 'classic' track for Moroder's score.  When Maria is stalked in the catacombs, when Maria first meets Freder, the 'Here She Comes' number, and the final chase scene are highlights of what new music can do to classic images.  It's absolutely riveting.  I promise you that the moment Rotwang extinguishes Maria's candle is the worth purchasing the Moroder version.

3.  The crime of this release is that it doesn't make use of the recent restored/remastered versions.  Since Kino apparently owns both, you have to wonder why. I only fear they'll release a restored Moroder in two years and make even more money off this film.  (Kino released a restored version, and then two years later released a restored/restored yet again.)  Having waited a LONG time to get this film in HQ (as it were), I'm not going to gamble missing this again.  For the uninitiated, this film never was released on DVD until now.  Only VHS and Laserdisc.  Yeah... talk about last one out of the gate.  Sheesh.

4.  If I wished to introduce METROPOLIS to a person under 30, despite the crappy film quality, it would be the Moroder version.  The pace is faster, the color tinting helpful, and the embedded subtitles preferable.  That said --

5.  -- I must make a comment about the theological politics of this version VS the recently restored versions.  I am a screenwriter and my eye is all over story, and I noticed something very odd about the Moroder version.  It's hard to put this delicately because it is controversial.  In this version, the message of the story is that there must be a Mediator between the minds that dream up society and the hands that build it.  Sound familiar?  No?  I'll give you a hint:  the %1 vs. the %99.  Got it?  Good.  Well, in the Moroder version, this message comes through loud and clear.  However, in the recently restored editions, a tangent message grows in strength -- being -- and that Mediator should be the Son of Go-- I mean, the son of Joh Frederson.  Let me put it another way.  A lot of the 'lost' footage that was recently restored is packed with more blunt Biblical references.  You'd think cut footage included nudity and violence, but the lion's share of footage that was 'lost' was particularly Christian.  Here's the interesting part:  as a screenwriter, I'd make the same cuts.  There's no point in referencing one Bible and faith when the film can work better from a universal and agnostic perspective -- as the Moroder version delivers.

So, overall -- this Blu-Ray is a wretched film stock version of a surprisingly superior story cut of Lang's Metropolis.