At first glance "Columbo -- The Complete Sixth & Seventh Seasons" seems like a Columbophile's delight -- 2 seasons of the best TV detective show ever for the price of one! But as Columbo watchers know, the true nature of clues often show themselves beyond the first impressions.

Which is not to say "Columbo Seasons 6 & 7" is a rip-off. There is technical truth in the packaging, in that it contains "Complete Season 6" -- the catch is that Season 6 only consisted of 3 episodes. Going into the 1976-77 TV season NBC, in its infinite wisdom, decided to end "Sunday Mystery Movie" as weekly series, replacing it with "The Big Event." (Seriously. That's what they called it. You can look it up.) Now,  new episodes of "Columbo" McCloud," & the now widower McMillan would appear with the frequency of Haley's Comet, in between broadcasts of "Gone With the Wind" & Charlton Heston disaster movies.

It would have been great if the lower quantity equaled  greater quality, but even the most loyal Columbo fans, I suspect, would call the Season 6 episodes "fair" (which is Columboese for "not very good"). The first episode, "Fade In To Murder" is the best, if only by the quality of the competition, with that canned ham William Shatner perfectly cast as the arrogant, temperamental star of America's Number One detective show, but the first-generation VHS recorder Shatner uses to create his alibi steals the show, yes, children of the microchip age, we once used such primitive equipment in our log cabins to entertain ourselves. The other 2 episodes, "Old Fashion Murder" (the title is the tip-off to how dynamic this episode is) which is set in a small, family-owned museum,  & "Bye-Bye Sky High I.Q. Murder Case," in which an accountant knocks off his partner at a Mensa meeting, probably rank near the bottom of Columbo episodes. Which is not to say they are unwatchable, even a sub-par Columbo outing is better than most TV shows. Still, we seem to have come a long way from watching a sneering Jack Cassidy or haughty John Cassavetes playing cat & mouse with Columbo to protect their 1% status.

Fortunately, the series rebounded smartly with Season 7, with several outings that could stand among the episodes from the first 3 seasons. In "Try And Catch Me" a spry Ruth Gordon offs the man who killed her niece by locking him in a vault (even the murders grew more imaginative this season), watching Columbo figuring out the victim's "dying clue" is great fun. "Murder Under Glass" features Louis Jourdan as a corrupt food critic, is driven by the personal dislike between Jourdan & Columbo, which grows throughout the episode, culminating in Jourdan trying to poison Columbo, but a running gag about Columbo receiving free meals grows old. "How To Dial a Murder" stars Nicol Williamson, who always performs like he's carrying a grenade he is about to pull the pin out of.  Here he is memorable as a pop psych guru, of which there were many in the naval-gazing America of the 1970s, avatars of self-improvement through bullying, promising to raise your self-esteem while they told you how worthless you were & vacuumed out your wallet. His murder weapon of choice is 2 trained-to-kill Doberman pinschers, which he turns on Columbo during their final confrontation. As far as I know it was only in this episode, "Murder Under Glass," and "Lady In Waiting" from Season 1 in which the killer actually placesColumbo in jeopardy.

"Make Me A Perfect Murder" stars Trish Van Devere as a ruthless, amoral TV executive, a cousin of the manipulative corporate samurai Faye Dunaway portrayed in "Network," children of the damned who learned about life from Bugs Bunny, land sharks who will only die if their ambition is checked. This episode is maddeningly uneven, like all episodes from Season 7, it had to fill two hours and the padding & filler is especially obnoxious, bringing the suspenseful, at times poignant, story to a dead halt at times. Still, the episode does include a subplot about a childish female star that has a certain lesbian undertone, somewhat daring for network TV in 1978, and the climax is brilliantly performed & edited. The season (and series, as it turned out) ends on a high note with "The Conspirators," with Clive Revill hitting every note perfectly as an exiled Northern Ireland writer involved in a gun-running scheme, switching from pacifist poet to cold-eyed militant in the blink of an eye, entirely credible the whole time. This episode  is one of the few Columbos to use material from the headlines (probably one reason the series has not become dated) & even takes on aspects of a political thriller as Columbo scrambles to not only catch a killer but stop a terrorist scheme. The final line, "This far and no further," was an appropriate line as any for the series to go out on.

And this was the end of the line for Columbo. In an exercise in show business karma, Falk, who during much of the run of the series  kept threatening to bolt the show, indicated he was willing to come back for more, but NBC & Universal, tired of the show's cost over-runs, and no longer concerned about keeping a weekly "Mystery Movie" franchise going, decided to pull the plug. Why bother with Falk & "Columbo" when they could go with the far more cheaper and tractable  "Mrs. Columbo"? (Which tells you everything you need to know about the Fred Silverman era at NBC). TV's most favorite detective was now gone, but, as history has proven, not forgotten, and would make a come-back in George Bush I's  America.

As with virtually all Universal DVD releases of TV shows, "Columbo - The Complete Sixth And Seventh Seasons" features the original episodes only, with no bonuses or special features. (And unlike some of the earlier Columbo DVDs does not even offer scene selection).  If you're interested in knowing what went on behind the scenes, I totally  recommend "The Columbo Phile," by Mark Dawidziak, which came out in 1988 and which contains a season-by-season, episode-by-episode break down of the show, including plenty of quotes from cast and crew.

If you're new to Columbo, a fan of highly intelligent, basically  non-violent detective shows I would recommend starting out with one of the earlier seasons, especially seasons 1 & 2, when the format was still fresh to everyone & the original creators, Richard Levinson & William Link, were still involved in the show and it was at its prime.  I would recommend "Columbo -- Complete Sixth and Seventh Seasons" primarily for Columbo completists.