WARNING: In the last paragraph I reveal the film's ending

I am usually annoyed by "this" meets "that" comparisons. But in this case I find it appropriate.

If you struggle with films outside the mainstream, then this film is not for you. It seeks to redefine the vanguard of film-as-art (rather than sheer entertainment) and lies far, far from the mainstream (art tends to prod boundaries, challenge norms, and stimulate emotions/intellect whereas entertainment just stimulates).

This film is so far removed from normalcy; I am having trouble forming an opinion about it. What is this movie about?!? Perhaps it is a comment regarding the degradation of the human psyche brought on by a self-perpetuating industrial modernization. Maybe the protagonist is coming to terms with his homosexuality. I think the latter a more viable interpretation. I would imagine the emotions depicted in this film are the very emotions a gay person would feel in a society where the stringent mores established over 2 centuries ago and covertly enforced via the fear of disrespect and banishment are just now starting to relax...slightly.

I have found that the vanguard is more fully appreciated by those steeped in a genre. Thus, I'll leave interpretation or criticism to pundits. I will say this, this film exhibits a strong parallel with zombie films.

Rather than interpret or assess this film I offer my impressions:

Character's bodies are quivering sweaty and always in pain...constantly in motion. Morphing into the jumbled mass of rusty and discarded metal pieces that comprise their environment.

Spaces are claustrophobic, dilapidated, lonely, and abandoned industrial factories lit by segregated fixtures of florescent white light. Shadows engulf whole objects rather than giving shape or softness to figures. All scenes shot outside or in any un-cramped area are sped up removing any sense of relief from claustrophobia in these potentially spacious shots.

Horrific metal phalli protrude in sexual rage, penetrating, torturing, killing.

The relationships between all the characters are typified by violence and/or sexual rage.

Tetsuo's body is eventually overcome by metal and is physically and psychically joined with the protagonist who's quest is to convert all humans to maniacal human-shaped metal creatures. "Through our love, the whole world will become metal. Mwuhahahahaha!"