This is one of the movies from the era when they made war movies seemingly every week. Such things were often burdened with cheesy plots, substandard acting, and (everyone's pet peeve) American tanks with German crosses on them. This movie is no exception (the German half-tracks and the one tank you see at the beginning are American) though the planes appear authentic. The difficulty is that there's almost no character development, and that almost all of the characters have been fictionalized for some reason, so that the movie lacks a bit of the authenticity it otherwise would have had.

The all-star cast includes basically every British actor from the era, from Michael Caine and Robert Shaw around to Ralph Richardson and Christopher Plummer. Susannah York has a nice turn as a female officer, and a very young Ian MacShane appears in a supporting role, along with Edward Fox. The difficulty is that these characters have almost nothing to do other than shoot down German planes and argue with one another. One character's wife gets killed, another gets burned horribly himself, but these plot threads are dealt with only cursorily, and you're left wondering how bad the guy's burns are, for instance. The plot of the movie, such as it is, is the story of the battle itself, which is reasonably well-told, if a bit compressed (they had to, because of time constraints).

There are also the historical inaccuracies, and annoying features of the DVD. For one thing, the subtitles are at times superfluous to the point of silliness. There's a scene where a German officer is approached by another, who leads him to a pair of large binoculars mounted on a tripod. He notes that we "borrowed" these, and this of course is translated in the subtitles. The silly part comes when the first officer looks through the binocs, and says "Dover?" and his guide responds "Dover!" Believe it or not, the subtitle says "Dover" and "Dover" when this dialog is exchanged, as if "Dover" might mean something else in German.

There's also the issue of one of the most famous lines from the Battle of Britain, the irreverent request to Goring for a squadron of Spitfires. All the students of the battle know that it was Galland who made it (he tries to excuse himself in his memoir, "The First and the Last"). In the movie, it's a guy named Falke who says it. I guess they didn't want to pay Galland to be a technical adviser on the film. I was hopeful that when they referred to one of the characters as Papa, that would turn out to be a bad translation of "Daddy" and the character would be Werner Moelders but no such luck. On the British side, neither Douglas Bader (the legless wonder of the RAF) nor Stanford Tuck make an appearance. I suppose you could make the argument that using real names would have concentrated too much on the heroics of the few, but in the Battle of Britain, the few were the ones who won the battle.

All of the above being said, the music's cool, and some of the aerial sequences are breathtaking. You can at times see that they added the flames and exploding debris to a plan that was still flying, and then cut away, but there are also scenes with a dozen or so planes flying in what must have been pretty complicated maneuvers, unless they somehow figured out how to use models almost 40 years ago. All in all, this is a good war movie without much of a plot beyond that of the battle itself.