God knows why this movie wasn't titled simply 'Dracula' - maybe to sound more high-minded? Francis Ford Coppola's 'Bram Stoker's Dracula'? Hardly. It's fit to break your tongue to pronounce this. Maybe to emphasize the literary origin? With all the sex and animal-attraction references involving blood-shot eyes, Dracula's long-lost love Mina (Winona Ryder) looking over her shoulder apprehensively, and an escaped woolf wandering the streets of Victorian London as casually and imperceptibly as any ol' stray dog? Not (...) likely! 
Gary Oldman does not exactly sprng to mind as the best choice to play the Divine Count. His bloodsucker is more brooding than outright villainous, but what with all the buxom ladies constantly getting out of their corsets and the young hunks on hand to chew and spit out, he fits in nicely into the proceedings. This version of the story is closer to the Hammer Film tradition of vampire erotica than to the austere original. Not that this is necessarily a bad thing - the costumes, sets and visuals are more than satisfying, but it's the acting that squeeks like rusty hinges on a coffin-lid. 
Oldman is just the beginning of a string of weird casting - Winona Ryder is more petulant than haunted, wearing a perpetual confused pout, and when she tries to play the passionate lady she comes off as a (...) schoolgirl. Anthony Hopkins is OK, if a bit too jocular as the determined Dr. Van Helsing, the guy who used to kill vampires long before Buffy was even conceived, Richard E. Grant is appropriately hysterical as a well-meaning junky twit, and Sadie Frost does little more than flash her pretty red curls around... Actually, I was wrong, she does do something quite out of the ordinary - she gets to have sex with Yeti's nephew, Gary Gorilla. Don't ask for an explanation, the purpose of this particular scene escaped me - maybe the producers were aiming at a universal audience, zoophiles and all. Tom Waits is unrecognizable (and chillingly touching) as Dracula's plaything, Renfield. And Keanu Reeves attains new heights of looking as though he had just swallowed a flagpole playing Mina's husband-to-be. No wonder sucking blood looked like a more inviting alternative to the poor maiden. 
I love vampire lore - stories, movies, legends, you name it. Which is why I have gone so easy on Francis Ford Coppola's 'Bram Stoker's Dracula'. Otherwise, no fancy dressings or false fangs in the world would save this uneasy blend of Victorian mores and Anne Rice-style morals from a swift and final demise.