These 5 movies, outside of the "Thin Man" series are among the very best the Loy/Powell team did.  The first two "Manhatten Melodrama" and "Evelyn Prentice" are dramas.  The later of the two, I feel, was the best. "Evenlyn Prentice" is of a neglected attorney's wife (Loy) who although loves her husband (Powell) faithfully is slyly targeted by a blackmailer.  The blackmailer succeeds in getting letters written by Loy that could be misconstured.  Because of her husbands position she goes to retrieve them.  Drunk he withholds them.  Seeing a gun she holds it on him.  He's shot and Loy flees with the letters, not knowing the outcome until reading the man's girlfriend has been arrested for the murder.  Loy can't keep silent believeing she herself killed the man.  She begs Powell to defend the girl and when the trial goes badly she stands up and confesses.  The outcome is surprising and I will leave that part for the audience to learn. Being a comedy fan I prefer the 3 remaining movies.  In "Double Wedding" Powell plays a free spirit living in a small trailer,  Loy feels Powell is threatening the future of younger sister (Florence Rice) who has become enamered with Powell.  Loy is determined to get rid of Powell, while he sets out to win Loy over by subtly involving her in his activities, with much humor and fun ensueing.  "I Love You Again" portrays Powell as a tight fisted "joiner" on a cruise.  After falling overboard he awakens to find he remembers nothing of his former life, which he had assumed after an earlier hit on the head.  He now becomes the man he was originally, a con artist and extravagant spender, suave dresser, dancer, charmer...attributes his wife, whom he soon meets at the dock, Loy, has never seen.  She hates the image in the man she married and has plans to divorce him.  Powell has to fake being her husband and the town's leading citizen in order to bilch the local citizens of their money.  To his surprise he likes the life he's leading and falls, of course, for Loy.  "Love Crazy" is of a couple madly in love intent on celebrating their anniversary in a bazaar tradition, which goes all wrong prompted by the unannounced arrival of Loy's mother and Powell's becoming involved with a former girlfriend in an elevator jam.  After many mishaps Loy finally determines Powell has wronged her and files for divorce.  Desparate, Powell fakes lunicy in order to prevent the divorce from going through.  His antics are hilarious as he breaks out of the assylum and dresses up as his own "sister".  Jack Carson plays the sympathetic man to Loy and runs interference with Powell's plan to win his wife back.  I know anyone who enjoys William Powell and Myrna Loy will love this collection.  Each movie is on a single dvd.