CUT TO THE CHASE
This is the Swedish version of the film, 3rd in the trilogy, but is in English--you do not have to read subtitles (unless you want to).  Of course, it is dubbed, but the dubbing is very well done.

EXTENDED TRILOGY
Note that there is an "very extended edition" of the trilogy avialable, which is an alternative.  <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B005JTLTI4">Dragon Tattoo Trilogy: Extended Edition</a>  Actually, it is the original ca 12-hour 6-part mini-series which was shown on Swedish TV, in Swedish, with English subtitles.  Because it is more complete, it is much easier to follow the story.  There are more, and more detail sex scenes.

DESCRIPTION
"The Girl Who Kicked A Hornet's Nest" is based on the third book of Stieg Larsson's "Millennium Trilogy", and does a good job of following the book.  The director does an excellent job of simplifying the story to the point that it stands on its own and can be seen and followed by viewers who have not seen the first two. (Although I highly recommend the first two).  The first, "The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo" may be hard to follow if you have not read the book.

The infamous "rape scene" is repeated--but almost only short snippets of the audio.  The only "nudity" is a presumably female butt seen for several seconds.

This actually being a "foreign" movie is not a Hollywood product.  That means that the characters far more closely resemble real human beings rather than the typical airbrushed Hollywood drones.  The quality of the acting is superb.  It is a story, superbly told (compared to many Hollywood products which are mostly sex and/or action with little plot).  No explosions.  No boobs.  Just a great story.

THE STORY
Lisbeth Salander (an antisocial girl presumed suffering from Aspberger's Syndrome) has been arrested for the attempted murder of her nasty Soviet-spy father, (Alexander Zalachenko).  A dormant underground Swedish Cold War espionage agency ("The Section"), presses for her conviction, to protect itself from being exposed by Zalachenko.  Simultaneously, she is being stalked by her half-brother Ronald Niedermann, who was Zalachenko's assistant/partner.  Lisbeth's friend, the editor of a magazine called "Millennium", Mikael Bloomquist, her former employer (owner of a security agency), and friend hacker come to her defense in the background, undercovering the facts which save her.  In the courtroom, Lisbeth is defended by Mikael's sister and lawyer.  The "modern" Swedish security agency is also "on the case" investigating "The Section".

EVALUATION
A nail-biter.  It's very hard to hit the "pause" button for a bathroom break.  The three hours go by very quickly.  The best movie I have seen in a very long time.  "The Girl Who Kicked A Hornet's Nest" is indeed a "movie", not a "film", which surely disappoints many anal-retentive, self-appointed "film" critics.  Unlike "The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo" there is nothing edgy nor political--other than a less than flattering portrayal of the Swedish justice system.  It is pure entertainment as a superby told story.  That's a compliment).

SUGGESTION
Consider buying the DVD rather than downloading--you'll want to see this movie again in a few years, or every few years.