I was at the Live Aid show at JFK, and it was an amazing day (also amazingly hot!).  Some have complained about certain artists being left off the DVD (Zeppelin, Santana), and that's a shame, but it was either the artist's decision or due to technical problems.  What is on the DVD is pretty amazing stuff, for the most part.  You can't expect all of the performers to be perfect in such a huge show.  Crosby, Stills, & Nash were horrible.  Bob Dylan, a notoriously inconsistent live performer, was awful (and I'm a huge Dylan fan).  Madonna wasn't very good.  The one funny thing about her performance was left off the DVD.  Live Aid happened just a few weeks after her nude photos were published by Playboy.  She came out on stage, on a very hot day, wearing a long jacket, and said, "I ain't taking s--t off today!"  Mick Jagger wasn't too great.  The Thompson Twins/Madonna version of "Revolution" was ghastly.

But there was so much great music.  Paul Young was great--excellent voice and great stage presence.  U2 was absolutely phenomenal--the best of the many great London performances.  Dire Straits was awesome, as always. Queen owned the Wembley crowd, especially with "Radio Gaga."  David Bowie was great, especially "Heroes."  The Pretenders, The Who, Elton John, Paul McCartney, Neil Young--all excellent.  It was cool to see Phil Collins doing "In The Air Tonight," even though it was just him on piano.  When he came to the part of the song where the drums kick in on the studio version, half the crowd at JFK started playing air drums.  You don't see that on the DVD, unfortunately.  And Hall & Oates doing old Temptations songs with Eddie Kendricks and David Ruffin--priceless!  When Ashford & Simpson brought out Teddy Pendergrass for his first perfomance since being paralyzed, that was quite an emotional moment, and a great song.

But perhaps the best performer at JFK was Patti Labelle.  Her performances of "Imagine" and "Forever Young" are jaw-droppingly amazing.

All in all, a great concert.  By far the best concert I've ever attended.  And I love the DVD.  It's for a good cause, so buy lots of copies.