From the Academy Award -winning* creators of "Finding Nemo" comes the action-packed animated adventure about the mundane and incredible lives of a house full of superheroes.

Bob Parr and his wife Helen used to be among the world's greatest crime fighters, saving lives and battling evil on a daily basis. Fifteen years later, they have been forced toa dopt civilian identites and retreat to the suburbs where the live "normal" lives with their three kids, Violet, Dash and Jack-Jack. Itching to get back into action, Bob gets his chance when a mysterious communication summons him toa  remote island for a top secret assignment. He soon discovers that it will take a super family effort to rescue the world from total destruction.

Exploding wtih fun and featuring an all-new animated short film, this spetacular 2-disc collector's edition DVD is high-flying entertainment for everyone. "It's James Bond, Indiana Jones and the X-Men all rolled into one". -Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE.

The "Jack-Jack Attack" was really good. The short film "Boundin'" was really good on this DVD and in theaters. The "Incredi-Blunders" are really funny. I hadn't viewed the
"Filmmaker's Audio Commentaries". The "Deleted Scenes" and "Alternate Openings" were good special features. "Top Secret Files On All The Supers" was nice and so was the "Behind the Scenes" type of special features. I enjoy those.

"The Incredibles" is every word on the list that means incredible: awesome, excellent, incredible and wicked. Every word that means incredible is what I will have to say about "The Incredibles". "The Incredibles" is the year's most exciting Disney movie, and it is also the best family film since "Shrek 2".

"Shrek 2" was an excellent movie. I thought the story to "Shrek 2" was extremely awesome. To compare it with this movie, "The Incredibles", I'd say this. I loved "Shrek 2" as much as everyone does, but my opinion for an award for the most intellegent animation goes to "The Incredibles". I thought the story to "Shrek 2" was much better than the story to "The Incredibles", but I like the animation to "The Incredibles" a lot more than I like the animation to "Shrek 2".

"The Incredibles" is like the best superhero movie, best Disney movie ever made and one of the best movies ever made. It's like all the superhero movies including "James Bond", the "Spider-Man" movies and the "X-men" movies; "The Incredibles" reminds me of how "Shrek 2" was an awesome animated film.

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS: Theatrical Widescreen (2.39:1) - Enhanced For 16x9 Televisions; English, French and Spanish Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround EX; THX-Certified Including THX Optimizer