As big dumb action films go, it hardly gets bigger and dumber than this.  Yet "Con Air" is bursting at the seams with acting talent and a laugh-out-loud script so chock full of classic action film one-liners it makes this movie one of the most rapturous popcorn-munching guilty pleasures since "Point Break".  This is a movie that so gleefully revels in its shallowness and perfectly tuned to its adrenaline-craving audience, it can barely afford five minutes to spend on all of the necessary plot setup, dispensing of it easily before the title graphics even appear.  In that five minutes, we learn that Army Ranger Cameron Poe (a musclebound Nicholas Cage) has returned from a tour of duty to visit his lovely wife.  No sooner does he step off the plane and finish a line dance, then he gets into some trouble with some wound-up locals.  They fight, one pulls a knife, and Poe ends up killing him in self defense.  Whoops.  Well, the yokels make off with the knife and Poe gets railroaded into Arkansas federal prison, where he spends his days weaving in and out of Michael Bey-style quick edits, working furiously on his pecs and voice-over narrating sensitive letters to his yet unseen daughter in a ridiculously mannered southern drawl that sounds like Foghorn Leghorn on a morphine trip. After 8 years of prison workouts and bad hair days, Poe is finally on his way home to meet his daughter - that is, until his prison transfer plane is hijacked by the forces of evil.  And mayhem and madness ensues as all laws of sensible plot development are thrown out the window and action movie physics take over.

The ensemble all-star villains cast includes John Malkovich, Ving Rhames, and Steve Buscemi as a Jeffrey Dahmer type, plus sturdy supporting roles for Dave Chappelle and Danny Trejo.  John Cusack and Colm Meaney have a grand time on the ground playing good cop/bad cop as they try to track the runaway jet, while Rachel Ticotin and Mykelti Williamson provide visual confirmation of Poe's conscience as well as distracting semi-perils that our hero must solve.  Director Simon West keeps the action flowing, synched perfectly to Trevor Rabin's noisy industrial-strength action film soundtrack, as Con Air careens from one implausibly over-the-top set piece to another.  This is the kind of movie that could *only* end up crashing a C-130 into the Las Vegas strip.  Are we surprised when the perfectly operational police bike crashes into the back of the firetruck and explodes instantly?  Or seeing an angry Poe taking a gunshot to the arm and not even flinch?  Or how about Malkovich somehow being able to surreptitiously construct an incindiary device in a maximum-security lockdown?  (Of course, i'd say the effete Malkovich has a better chance of the latter, as opposed to giving an freakishly amped-up Cage a good match in a fist fight on a runaway firetruck.)

It always amuses me when sensible people - would-be critic and audient alike - log on to try to throw the believability gauntlet at a hilariously grand spectacle like this.  Is it seriously worth wasting your time expressing indignance about your cinematic sensibilities being ruffled by a Simpson/Bruckheimer production?  Were you expecting Simon West to squeeze out a mini-"Citizen Kane" before he got to work on "Lara Croft: Tomb Raider"?  ADMIT that you have been entertained.  And put the bunny down.