This is, as everyone knows, Vin Diesel's proof that he has range and depth with a character emotionally. He himself has said he loves getting in tune with a character. (Obviously moreso with his "Riddick" character of course.) So A Man Apart never seemed to be even hyped so much as a fantastic movie but moreso that Vin Diesel had to be a fantastic actor.
The plot was very tired as everyone has pointed out. There are dozens of movies similar to this. A cop's significant other/child/family was murdered (sometimes, and in this case as well, the main character was supposed to be killed right along with them) ordered by a convict whom this said cop busted in some way. Cop seeks revenge. Cop gets revenge.
A Man Apart is the same way, but carried by a normally rough-and-tumble action star (ironically, even this movie is labeled "Action") showing that he can pull off these extreme emotional stakes. Many thought it would be laughable to see Vin Diesel nearly loose his mind and go on a killing spree to avenge his wife. But like the man or not, he pulled this role off powerfully.
Sean watching his wife die under him while she was smiling through bloodied teeth repeating "I'm okay, I'm fine.." while he couldn't even speak on the phone to the police was wrenching to even watch. The bloodshot eyes (when drinking on the beach behind his house), the few seconds when realization first struck in while crying his wife's name (when Demetrius had to hold him down in his hospital bed), and the "come down" after the purposely insane shootout after he beats the man who actually did kill his wife, cleaning his wedding ring on his hand were undoubtedly the most powerful scenes in this movie. It was impossible not to empathize somehow with Sean Vetter during some points during this film.
If you like Vin Diesel and want to see his range in a not so emotionally strong role, this is a good flick to add to your collection.
The DVD itself was awful, the deleted scenes were up to three minutes max, no behind the scenes or making-of, and no commentary that you would think/hope this kind of movie would have. If you want Vin DVD's that are WELL worth the money, buy XXX and the new unrated directors cut of Pitch Black (that also has many The Chronicles of Riddick extra also), you won't be disappointed.