Like the more lesser known DUCKTALES: THE MOVIE--TREASURE OF THE LOST LAMP, this film is also based on a famous Disney TV show, GOOF TROOP, starring, naturally, Goofy. That said, A GOOFY MOVIE feels somewhat disconnected from the show, as indicated by the style of the animation and the lack of certain characters around (Pete's wife and daughter Peg and Pistol, respectively). Not that it is a detriment at all, however; in fact, A GOOFY MOVIE is all the better for it. While there are laughs to be had, what really makes this movie is the fully-realized characterizations, particularly in the development of the relationship between Goofy and his teenage son Max, which serves as the central focus for the story.

Goofy (Bill Farmer, who has never been better) is cast as a suburban '90s father who bumbles his way through everything, including almost vacuuming up a prized cardboard statue and smashing a fence when driving his car out of the driveway. An admirer of old-fashioned things like Xavier Cougat, "High Hopes", and fishing, he is a frequent source of embarrassment to Max (Jason Marsden), who is going through that typical adolescent stage where girls, rock 'n roll, and social acceptance are more important to him. Smitten with one particularly pretty classmate, Roxanne (Kellie Martin), he plucks up the courage to ask her out on a date... but not before hijacking the last school assembly to put on an impromptu rock concert as his idol, a rock superstar named Powerline (Tevin Campbell, who gets to sing two of the movie's liveliest and memorable tunes, "Stand Out" and "I 2 I"). Max does this to both impress the girl and win admiration from his classmates (who think he's, well, a goofball), but the exasperated principal (Wallace Shawn) misinterprets his actions as a case of being on a road to crime, a point that he overexaggerates in the extreme on a phonecall to Goofy. Needless to say, Goofy is horrified by the news and forces Max to go on a cross-country vacation with him to Lake Destiny to reestablish their bond. Of course, what Goofy doesn't realize is that Max, who has no choice but to cancel his date, boasts that he will be onstage at Powerline's newest concert in L.A. instead. This sets up a source of tension that escalates between Goofy and Max as they stop at rundown, cringeworthy "resorts" such as the shady-looking Lester's Possum Park (a very loose parody of Disney's "Country Bear Jamboree") and even get into an encounter with Bigfoot. (The latter experience culminates with the beast dancing to the Bee Gee's "Staying Alive" on Max's headphones.) Amazingly, though, Goofy and Max begin to bond as their trip progresses; but Max is still troubled by his predicament, and, thinking his father won't understand, he decides to alter the map so that they can go to the concert instead... ultimately realizing that telling the truth is the better thing to do.

Even with the presence of a iconic loveable bumbler like Goofy as the star, A GOOFY MOVIE is primarily targeted at teenagers, who will undoubtedly relate to Max and his adolescent struggles. On the other side of the fence, parents will also be able to identify with Goofy as he deals with his son's resentment about the vacation while trying to prove that all he really wants is for his son to be happy. It's not often to see such a complex development in a project which is disconnected from Disney's canonical features, much less one from a character best known for tripping on his heels or bungling simple tasks (ala the "How to" Goofy shorts). Ultimately, though, that's what gives A GOOFY MOVIE its heart. No character is portrayed as a purely perfect "hero" or a downright evil "villain"; they are surprisingly more multi-layered than what you'd come to expect. Critics have often dismissed this film as a lesser effort from Disney, but A GOOFY MOVIE has achieved a loyal following, purely because of the surprisingly realistic, honest depiction of "teenager" relationships with their parents.  (It also marks the first time we've ever seen Goofy look genuinely crushed and betrayed, particularly when he discovers his son is manipulating him into going to some place other than their fishing destination, as well as having a heated argument with the boy immediately afterward.)

One issue that I do have with A GOOFY MOVIE, however, may be that some of the newer characters introduced, from cheese-guzzling Bobby (an uncredited Pauly Shore), to nerdy class president Stacey (Jenna Von Oy) to Roxanne herself all don't have much screentime. Since all three come across as very appealing newcomers, it would have been interesting to flesh out their relationships with Max and Goofy. Particularly Roxanne, who, although sweet and insecure, leaves one wanting to see her on that special date with Max. This "tease" somewhat grates on me, although not enough to bring down the film.

Technically, the animation in A GOOFY MOVIE (produced primarily at Disney's animation studios in Paris, Sydney, and Toronto) isn't as richly detailed as most of the studio's other films; frankly, though, it is both above-average and very well-suited to this kind of "cartoon". This is a major difference from the TV show, which mostly had pencil-drawn backgrounds that gave the show a bit of a sketchbook style. The more softer colors used in the film (and occasionally dramatic close-ups) lend themselves well to the more emotional parts of the story (notably when mean-spirited Pete tells Goofy about his son changing the map). The soundtrack is also a lot of fun; aside from the aforementioned rock songs, other catchy memorable numbers include the exuberant "After Today", the bouncy "On the Open Road", and the heartfelt "Nobody Else but You", all written by Tom Snow and Jack Feldman, respectively. Probably the only false note is the "Lester's Possum Park" singalong, but then again, that may be intentional, since the camp is supposed to be, as Max best describes it, "pathetic". Carter Burwell's musical score is also quite good, and arguably better than some of Alan Menken's instrumental scores for other Disney movies.

All in all, A GOOFY MOVIE may not rank as one of Disney's greatest animated films, but it certainly deserves better recognition. It works very well as entertainment and as a character study, yet as a starring vehicle for Goofy it's something quite different from what one would be used to seeing. That it holds up well even after being released in 1995 (even more so than most of the studio's post-LION KING films, excluding THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME, MULAN, TARZAN, FANTASIA 2000, LILO AND STITCH, and the recently released THE PRINCESS AND THE FROG, all of which I loved) is also remarkable.