While there are warm scenes between Darwin and his daughter Anne and also, of course, between Darwin and his wife, the movie as a whole has a somber tenor about it.  The tone of the film is necessarily sad because of the argument being made that the existence of evil argues against God's existence, certainly an age-old argument.  To make the point there is a lot of suffering shown:  by Darwin, his daughter, and by certain creatures that are highlighted.  In making this argument the film-makers do not take into consideration how the fall of man that we read about in Genesis brought death upon all of creation.

Darwin as played by Paul Bettany suffers greatly from physical and emotional illness (just as Darwin did) and he is mentally tormented by what he sees as purposeless in nature and the needless destruction of animal life: in the film Darwin mentions the trout, for example, producing myriads of offspring which are then eaten by other animals.

There is some historical inaccuracy that I was able to detect.  The major impetus for Darwin writing his seminal book was not so much Huxley, but Darwin's receiving a letter from Alfred Russell Wallace who also conceived the theory of evolution.  Wallace, a spiritist, had received the theory in a vision.  Darwin's colleagues such as Thomas Huxley urged Darwin to write his book so that he would be given sole credit for the theory.  The film makes the reason for the writing of the Origin of Species a moral argument coming from Huxley and agreed upon by Darwin when really it was  the threat from Wallace that was the reason.

Christianity is rather misrepresented by the local village pastor who is cruel and unreasonable to Anne and in the end abandons Darwin.  This is an unfortunate representation of Christianity but it helps the argument of the film.  During Darwin's lifetime there were very sincere and Godly Christians who were providing housing, food, and clothing in Bristol and in London.  Thousands of orphans were helped.  This was only a small part of what was happening in Christianity.  It is also true that there were men taking positions as country vicars who cared more for a respectable position and  their hobbies than the souls of men,  but, as I say, there was much more to the picture than what they represented.

Also, Darwin's theory was not opposed only by the religious, a point made by Huxley in the movie.  It was also opposed by reputable scientists such as James Clerk Maxwell, Lord Kelvin, and Gregor Mendel to name a few.  Also, many who were religious, including many clergy,  jumped on the Darwinian bandwagon.  Darwin's theory was an excuse to disregard the Bible, or, at the least, not regard it as an authority.  This is the reason why in many religious circles today, the Bible is considered to be only myth or poetry.

Many of us can relate, I am sure, to Darwin's struggle (at least to some extent) with the existence of evil and the seeming lack of purpose of things.  For many of us, when we came to know Jesus Christ, we looked at God's creation quite differently and could understand the purpose of things.  We could also appreciate the effect that the fall of man has had upon the creation.  But we can watch this film and realize that before we were Christians we similarly did not appreciate God for who He is and His creation for what it is.