Rambo II is one of those movies that in a way surpass its predecessor. It's more action oriented but with a somewhat cool plot. The movie itself is one of the most definitive action movies of the 80's. Directed by italian director, George Cosmatos, the movie was the one who put the name "Rambo" in common use in the USA. Also it was written by James Cameron (of the "Terminator" saga and Titanic) and Sylvester Stallone. The hidden subject in this movie is actually the idea of Rambo "winning" the vietnam war but there is more to it. When this movie opened in 85, the Cold War was as its best. Reagan used this movie to put himself into the "rambomania" frenzy, we all know that Reagan use all the media at his disposal but that's another story whatsoever.
The movie is rated R for violence mostly, there are a couple of bad words and blood but teens can get to it without much trouble. The whole idea of the "expendable" issue is a good theme for discussion between parents and kids or teacher and students.
Rambo: First Blood Part II (in some countries called "Rambo II: The Mission) now in this DVD format is a definitive movie for the action fan, specially if you are a fan of the 80's movie. This edition has clear image and excellent sound. The process for digitalization of the picture was done perfectly so you won't believe you are actually watching a movie almost 20 years old.
The documentary has a lot of cool info, even for those "Rambomania" fans would find this very interesting and with interviews with cast and crew including Stallone, the late Richard Crenna, and others. Also the director Cosmatos and the producers get into the documentary with interesting facts (the idea of pairing Stallone and Travolta as a sidekick was a novelty for me!!!) is a good source for inside info.
The trailers (some are TV spots) are also quite good but they haven't been "cleaned up" so they look like they are quite old and the sound in those is not remastered. There's also a section on the stars and the crew with filmography and stuff it's informative but that's it.
The extras are good. It would be fun if they throw a lot of deleted scenes into it, but there isn't. The audio commentary of Cosmatos is so-so there aren't much there either.
Finally I must say this edition contain both the widescreen version and the full screen version so you can go wrong there. The movie comes with subtitles in spanish for both versions.
From 1 to 5: Movie=4, Sound Quality=5, Video Quality=5, Extras=3.