This is simply the best film I've ever seen in my entire life. I've studied the films of Kurosawa Akira thoroughly and my opinion remains deeply rooted.
In a previous review of Akahige, one person mentioned the scene in which the the maids and Otoyo are screaming Chobo's name down the well. This person said this was the best scene. I have to disagree because it makes the viewer think too much about the camera, sucking the emotion out of the scene and replacing it with curiosity as to how the scene was filmed. This is a problem that occurs over and over and over again in the Wachowski brother's Matrix films. The viewer thinks about how it was really accomplished, not about any sort of sentimental value.
Other than that scene, which, actually, I believe is the worst scene, the movie is so great that it can hardly even be described in words alone. In fact, it can't because words and cinema are two different things. Watch this movie.
Just to give a little historical background, this is the final collaboration (made in 1965) between Kurosawa Akira (said to be the greatest director ever) and Mifune Toshiro (said to be the greatest actor ever). I'd also suggest watching the rest of Kurosawa Akira's films first, especially Drunken Angel, which happens to be the first time Kurosawa Akira and Mifune Toshiro worked together.
Kurosawa had never really been impressed by any actor/actress before he met Mifune. He claimed that Mifune could do in one movement what a normal actor would take three movements to express. He had just been discharged from the Japanese military and starred in half of Kurosawa Akira's films, which is quite a lot. After all, Kurosawa directed approximately thirty films in his lifetime, including such flicks as Sugata Sanshiro, Drunken Angel, The Seven Samurai, and Kagemusha.
So, all in all, this is the best film ever. One flaw is its length though, as other reviewers have mentioned. It's difficult to watch a three hour film over and over again due to its sheer size. I'm still collecting Kurosawa Akira's films, but no collection would be complete without Akahige.