It's hard to express exactly what I feel about this film.  I've only watched it a couple of times (though I own the DVD, and I think I might pop it in this weekend)...but already it has left its mark on me.  No other film I've ever seen had such an inspiring, emotional effect on me personally - now, I'm a college student, a guy, and it's hard for me to get emotional about anything.  
Boogie Nights had been my favorite (and yep, I picked up the 2-disc Platinum series of that the same time I bought Magnolia), but after only two viewings I know I'll probably never come across another film that provokes such an emotional response.
I think Paul Thomas Anderson is a genius.  Hard Eight was a beautiful small-scale, slowly paced film; Boogie Nights was the antithesis, a brilliant, rocking ride; and he's finally acheived true cinematic greatness with Magnolia.  
It takes a lot of effort to remember you're watching actors.  That's how much the performances meant to me.  Because they're so believable, you develop a large personal insterest in the characters, so it's easy to become emotional while watching the film.  "Wise up" might have been the single most beautiful sequence I have ever seen put to film.  I guess it might be unusual for a college guy to get emotional while watching a movie, but I'd be lying if I didn't say I cried every time this sequence comes up...
The DVD is also excellent.  I was disappointed when I first heard there was no commentary (because PT Anderson is so great with them; check out his own Hard Eight and Boogie Nights).  I later learned that he didn't want to do a commentary track, and do you really want three hours of something that would be so forced and intermittent given the circumstances?  Instead we're given a 75-minute documentary which is a fantastic profile into the development and production of the film.  It's a perfect compliment to the film.  In addition to the documentary, you get the Frank T.J. Mackey seminar (I really have to try the "you know exactly what you did" bit some time...), a Mackey infomercial, the music video to Aimee Mann's Save Me (directed by Anderson), and over a dozen trailers and teasers.  And check out those color bars; the outtakes are great.  The moments with Luis Guzman at the quiz show table and John C. Reilly during the "Wise Up" sequence are good for some great belly laughs.  
Maybe the DVD extras as they stand are the perfect commentary to the film.  Kudos to New Line for putting together such a comprehensive experience which goes so far beyond the film; along with the new Boogie Nights set (also fantastic), they're right up there with Criterion in my book).  
Big congratulations to P.T. Anderson for another masterpiece.  It's going to be nearly impossible to top this one, but don't count him out.  He's surprised me every time he's made a film yet.
This may be the best film you'll ever see.  Or you might hate it.  But you're doing yourself a huge disservice if you don't watch it.