Excellent video!  Well worth the time to watch!  Have a screening & invite friends, family & neighbors.

This is a scary story of what is happening now, in that the world's water corporations are taking over the supplies of potable water (streams, wells, etc.), bottling the water & pumping the ground aquifers & rivers dry...

They come to a community purporting to "help the people by providing clean drinking water to everyone."  What they don't mention is that "everyone" to them means "everyone able to PAY for it."

I worked in the 1980s in Cochabamba, Bolivia, near the Peruvian border.  There, we piped water into the villages via a central pump station.  This freed the local children up from the chore of hauling water for the house & family so that they had time to attend the school we built.

Everything we accomplished in the 1980s has now been destroyed by Suez Corporation.  Suez (major water corporation) has come in, established a humongous multi-million dollar facility, and provided outlets for the water.  The caveat being that this water costs over 10 times what it did before.  Most of the local peasants have no way to afford to purchase this water.  Unfortunately, Suez has been so effective in polluting the naturally clean springs & rivers from which the natives traditionally drew their water.  Suez was even instrumental in diverting slaughterhouse offal into the local river which runs through Cochabamba - to the point that the river runs red, stinks with filth, & must now be enclosed & covered to prevent further disease.  In other words, the locals must buy their water from Suez or do without.

Enter Evo Morales, President of Bolivia.  He has turned Suez, the WorldBank & IMF out of Bolivia & has reclaimed the water for the people.  Because of his stand to keep foreign corporations from preying & profiting on the backs of the Bolivian peasants, he is now vilified & demonized on par with Hugo Chavez.

For an even better perspective on how US "Aid", WorldBank, & IMF have been supporting corporate looting of developing countries, buy "South of the Border" by Oliver Stone!  It is an excellent follow-up to this film, in that it explains how conditions in Latin American countries have improved since ridding themselves of the American-sponsored "Aid" organizations...  What progress!

We plan to spend our retirement years in South America!