The movie follows the continuity of the games, making references to people that are in the center of the Ashford family, owners of the UMBRELLA corp. that appear in the R.E. games as well as Nemesis and even down to the detail of the Umbrella special-ops teams uniforms reminiscent of Hunk in R.E. 2. If you like the games you should like the movie. As a prequel to the games the movie provides answers to some of the mystery and questions that arise as a result of playing the game. The movie plays off of the games success by using the same style of camera angles as well as using common characteristics, i.e. that design of dress all too many R.E. characters own, or the bizzarre messages that people with temporary amnesia find and only discover the meanings later. The movie lacks most of the other biohazard mutations, containing only zombies, zombie dogs, lickers (the long tongued clawed thing from the 2nd game with an exposed brain), and a glimpse of pre-Resident Evil 3 NEMISIS. The movie uses lots of inventions pulled from the games, such as the underground train in RE gun survivor. The camera angles while meant to bring suspense get overly repetitious, with several close ups of people who suddenly get surprised, or close ups of zombies suddenly opening their eyes. The movie is a little on the predictable side but only as much as the games. A misconception is that the original games, and thus the movie, while horror in nature were meant to imitate and satirize the old style of B-movie horror, and the movie is the same way, the whole Resident Evil series is meant to be a farce of the whole 50's style of horror in a modern setting. Most people don't realize this and expect to see a terrifying movie, while scary there is subtle twisted humor to the series, I mean evil international corporation with a virus turns people into zombies that eat the flesh of the living. Hmmm... sounds funny to me, just as much as an asteroid from space bringing bacteria that cause the dead to come to life. The movie is good and follows the same tone of the games, the movie was meant for people who like the games, the storyline, the characters, and the plot are a variation of the plots and characters of the games, which are a variation of the classic horror sci-fi genre. If you go into the movie with this in mind you will be frightened and will enjoy it just as much.