Dennis Quaid ranks high in our family video night; both the Parent Trap and the Rookie are among our young children's favorites.  For my wife and I, I rented In Good Company due to Quaid, and because the film intrigued me: its trailer and synopsis do not rely on quick action or screwball comedy.... it was different from most of what I see.

In Good Company relies on its characters.  I don't know the corporate world, but as corporations seem to be today's "Resident Evil" (pun intended), I liked a story where a heart is found in the Oz less world of layoffs and cubicles.  What I liked most was the interaction between Dan Forman, played by Quaid, and Carter Duryea, played by Topher Grace.  Carter is fatherless; basically he's parentless, and the film shows a close Foreman family but has little, and little positive, reference to Carter's upbringing. Carter's world is psyche, synergy, cell phones and Sports America, where he now runs sales.  As the film progresses we are treated not just to an old school/new school, hip/over the hill tension, but see a young man learn character, in work and family, from someone who has done it right. There are limitations, as when Foreman tells Duryea that the secret to a good marriage is to find the right woman and keep your organ in your pants when you are away from home.  This is not too helpful for Carter, whose seven-month marriage to the wrong woman shows a need for more than luck. But overall he learns that life is more than suits, cars, and success... he longs for he does not have.  Throughout we see the pain of a young man all alone in the world, someone who has had no one to guide him.

In one scene, Morty, played by David Paymer, states that the right timing is important. The film could easily have dived into a happy ending where everyone has a job and  where Carter gets the girl, but it makes a good move by remaining true to that line.  When Carter hugs Foreman goodbye he squeezes him and breaks down. When we next see Carter he is jogging outside rather than on a treadmill. He may not know where his path will lead, but now, thanks for Dan Foreman, he is no longer running in circles.