Star Trek IV is a great conclusion to what should be called the Genesis Trilogy. In "The Voyage Home" at the Federation Council the Klingons display the Genesis torpedo video. Genesis is a major topic in the two preceding movies, and these films leave off where the last one left.

The "Voyage Home" is the most memorable motion picture of the series; it is unlike any other Trek adventure. Instead of Kirk's crew fighting a genetic superman or Klingon, they go back in time to the 1980's to pick up whales. On the surface (no pun intended) finding whales is a shallow (honestly, no pun intended) idea for an intelligent audiance (yes, trekkies are entilegent, and evn sofistikated). But director Leonard Nimoy does a superior job portraying how earth faces imminent destruction unless an alien probe is responded to by humpback whales. Like the original Trek episode "Tomorrow is Yesterday," Kirk and crew travel back in time in a slingshot flight around the sun. What happens aftwerward is a hilarious adventure full of time travel gags, great one-liners, "colorful metaphors," and puns (much better than mine).

Special features include an enlightening commentary by Leonard Nimoy and William Shatner. This includes an acknowledgement by Nimoy of how George Lucas' success in Star Wars paved the way for Paramount to fund Star Trek films. Michael and Denise Okuda provide entertaining text commmentary, detailing how the film's studios were used afterwards by The Next Generation series. A feature called "Roddenberry Scrapbook" interviews the Trek creator's son, sharing fond memories of his father Gene. "Featured Artist Mark Lenard" is a cool interview of the late actor's wife and daughters, with their experiences of Lenard as dad and Romulan/Vulcan. Of course, you must watch "Kirk's Women," which interviews some original episode guest stars (ironically, the best looking one was in "The Apple," and she was Chekov's babe!)

After adding Star Trek II, III, and "The Voyage Home" to your DVD collection, you can invest in these other quality Trek films:

"Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country" (original cast)

NEW CAST

"Star Trek: First Contact" (a.k.a. 'Picard and Data vs. the Borg')

"Star Trek: Insurrection" (a.k.a 'Picard and Data vs. Aliens with Wrinkle Problems')

"Star Trek: Nemesis" (a.k.a. 'Attack of the Picard and Data Clones')