To clear up some misinformation:  1) The studio (UA) did not order Stevens to trim.  He was one of the few directors of the period who had final cut and had it since "I Remember Mama."  Stevens trimmed the film himself to improve it.

I saw the 3 hour 50 minute version right after it opened in February 1965.  The pacing was way off and that's why the reviews came down so heavy.  I saw it again the following Summer (1965) at its present 3H 15m length and the film flowed perfectly. The cuts were mostly on the order of shortening some shots and trimming shots here and there.  One trim I remember is of the Roman Soldiers appearing over the rise and marching towards the screen.  In the February version it went on for quite a bit longer before dissolving.  The same with the "heal Me" shot.  Also, Carol Baker had an extra close-up or two.  The 35 minutes cut were that sort of thing.  Seeing this version all the reservations I had had about it the previous February were put to rest.  I saw the film again in December (1965) just before it's Cinerama roadshow engagements were ending due to the Christmas release of "Battle of Bulge" with that film requiring the Cinerama theatres then playing GSET.  When the film went into a two week limited general release the following Easter (1966) it had a running time of 140 minutes.  The story of that cut I don't know about and fortunately I have never seen the film at that length.

To really judge GSET one must see it on a very big screen.  On a small TV screen (and in pan & scan) it's extremely slow and drags along at a snails pace with the Jose Ferrer, Charlton Heston and Telly Savalas sections about the only thing perking it up.  But the film wasn't made for a small screen television, it was made for a Cinerama size screen, and in Cinerama the films visuals are both simply incredible.  They amount to 75 or more percent of the film's impact.  This is the reason why Stevens opted for Ultra-Panavision as it provided him with the biggest screen then available. Much like "2001" which was released three years later (also in Cinerama) GSTET is more about experience than it is about conventional narrative story telling.  Sitting in that first row center seat of a Cinerama theater the film was overpowering. I had never seen anything quite like it before and few films after can compare to it in terms of its visual impact and its complete mastery of the visual medium.  Every shot, every cut, every angle is as it should be.  The film made me feel that I had been taken to another place and time and, made part of the unfolding events, as I felt I was there both in body and mind.

After I purchased the Blu-Ray which has some problems with the transfer I sat two feet in front of a 65 inch DLP screen which, with respect distance from the screen, simulated the mid-to-rear section of a movie theater and watched it from beginning to end.  It wasn't first row center Cinerama but I did get some of the feel that I had gotten in the theater forty six years ago.  I neither found the film boring nor did it drag.  Instead, I found it an extremely moving "experience."  Whatever the transfer thank God for Blu-Ray and Big screen TVs.

With regard to the music; it's one of Alfred Newman best scores.  Over Newman's veto Stevens insisted on using the Handel and Verdi in certain sections but there is a CD available with all of Newman's original score even the cues not used in the film.  So, you can see which works better.  Stevens wanted to use the Handel because he felt audiences could more easily relate to it than something original.  And frankly, it works for me.  It's interesting that to a much greater degree the same thing occured with "2001."  Kubrick opted to drop all of Alex North's original score and, instead, substitute the guide tracks used while editing the film  and in doing so radically changed the way many films today are scored.

There's a 'making of' short which seems to be an expanded version of the GSET section from the documentary on Stevens made by his son, George Stevens Jr, a number of years ago.  I found it fascinating.