First, I'm very grateful that my favorite Peckinpah film, and one of my top two favorites (McCabe & Mrs. Miller being the other) has finally found its way onto DVD, with that format's possibilities.  As the film is famous for having never attained a state satisfactory to the filmmaker, this double-disc release offers a special, new cut, that is an attempt both to rectify perceived shortcomings, and retain strengths from the original theatrical release, and the 1988 "Turner" edition.

I have to say the results are mixed. Since Peckinpah has been gone for some time, any new version obviously cannot be claimed as Sam's vision, but is a product of someone else's perceptions of what works, and what doesn't. Not everyone is going to agree with each choice that has been made.  I certainly don't, though the commentary track provides the reasons for each decision well enough.

Those familiar with both earlier versions know that the Turner edition added the "framing" footage of Garrett's assassination, intercut with Billy and the gang shooting up chickens years earlier.  The guy who put the 2005 version together starts out with the odd choice to use both the "frame" footage, and the theatrical version's montage credit sequence.  Both had their advantages, but I think the framing material was more effective intercut with the main credits.  Worse, however, for me anyway, is the fact that the guy admits to favoring the theatrical

version, leading to worse choices later on -  the dropping of the the other "bookend" frame for one.  I don't agree with his reason either, it isn't just a pointless replay of the same footage, but a reminder of Garrett's fate, and an opportunity to create another nifty editing image (Billy shooting Garrett).  Always liked that bit.

For some reason, the Turner edition featured a rather muted musical score, and no Dylan vocals!  This new cut corrects that, and also restores the long-lost scene between Garrett and his wife.  The commentators do a nice job also of pointing out some of the film's "uncorrectable" flaws, particularly the underdeveloped (and perhaps unneeded) storyline featuring the Paco character (it's funny to hear them crack up when Billy just up an leaves the raped girl crying over her murdered father, to ride off amongst sheep).

The new version also drops the scene with Poe interrogating the miners, which is defensible, as it keeps the focus on Billy and Garrett, although that scene has some nice dialogue of weariness and despair ("Tired of looking fer yellow rocks").  I prefer the extended scene with Peckinpah at the end - I thought he did a nice job there, no reason to cut it short as in the new version, and the theatical cut. The commentators also explain the differences between a "director's cut," a "preview cut," and a "fine cut" which is what the new version kind of tries to be.

Mostly, the new version falters at the end, I think.  The guy apparently hated the "What you want and what you get" line, and so left it out, as well as dropping the second occurance of the framing story. That's too bad.  I thought the line gave the scene a dramatic pitch that is otherwise lacking, as well as several layers of meaning to consider. And I just don't agree with him about which ending is best.

But, thankfully we have the Turner version included in the package, so Peckinpah fans can see the stuff they like.  What this DVD finally shows is that we'll simply never have a "definitive" PG&BtK.  Despite these reservations, we do get a terrific film in a beautiful widescreen print.  That alone is something to savor, and celebrate.