Unlike some people I really enjoyed the HELLRAISER sequel that preceeded this one, INFERNO. It stuck more to the original concept (as in the original novel) than any of the other sequels, and actually had a new twist and a PLOT which is more than I can say for HELL ON EARTH (radio shack cenobites...ugg) and the idiotic, predictable BLOODLINE (Pinhead in Space, just like the stupid Leprechaun).
So after the series had been so greatly revived by part 5, I hoped, though doubted, that part 6 might be halfway watchable.
Firstly this movie is a rip-off of ANGEL HEART and JACOB'S LADDER. Secondly, it does the old "it was only a dream" trick every five minutes to the point where you cannot follow the plot at all. The only redemable moment is the ending which is commendable but isn't worth waiting for through the entirety of the boring, lame and redundant film.
Pass on this.
The interesting thing is that the people who own the rights to this series also own the rights to HALLOWEEN (or did). So if JASON VRS. FREDDY ever comes out and makes any profit, which it will no matter how campy it will doubtlessly be, then we will know whom Pinhead will eventually come face to face with. After that we can look forward to a reprise of the old monster movies like KING KONG VRS. GODZILLA which plagued the late fiftes and early sixties. Every horror movie icon will come back to fight another (which would also make for a great Playstaion 2 fighting game). THE FLY will fight LEATHERFACE. CHUCKY VRS. LEPRECHUAN is inevitable. THE THING could show up at SLEEPAWAY CAMP. Personally, I think once a franchise has reached up to part seven or, worse yet part 10 like FRIDAY THE 13TH, there is little left to do but go campy or call it quits. FREDDY went campy (super campy) by the first sequel. He knew what was up. Chucky and Leprechaun followed his lead, and Jason took his sweet time but he made it. Unless Hollywood finally lets PINHEAD and MYERS and the other greats finally rest in peace, then eventually they will be doomed to cinematic cheese. HALLOWEEN 8 (with Busta and Tyra) is an alarming warning of this.
Let's hope they let PINHEAD maintain his dignity and throw in the towel. Some horror icons are too magnificent to go cheesy. But as for Chucky and Jason, hey Hollywood: go nuts.