John Hughes was good at presenting teen angst through a soft lense, particularly through four films produced in rapid succession in the mid-eighties: Sixteen Candles (1984), Breakfast Club (1985), Pretty in Pink (1986), and Some Kind of Wonderful (1987).
Maybe because it is the first in this thematic thread, Sixteen Candles is the weakest. While the other three titles achieve a modicum of depth by examining larger social issues (characters who overcome social barriers imposed by class differences, or explore realities behind stereotypical appearances), Sixteen Candles lacks this element, leaving it comparatively shallow.
Its shallowness is worsened by going for cheap shots and cheap laughs. We're supposed to laugh at a girl's inability to drink from a water fountain or out of a can because she wears a neck brace. (IMDB lists her as "girl wearing a scoliosis brace.") We're supposed to laugh at an Asian character's ridiculous name and accented non-standard English. He is referred to twice in the movie with the insulting term, "Chinaman." When I say this term is insulting I am not being overly sensitive nor am I attempting to adhere to humorless political correctness. "Chinaman" (unlike "Englishman" or "Irishman") is defined as a derogatory term. Please don't take my word for it; consult any reputable dictionary. And finally, we're supposed to laugh at Samantha Baker's sister's stumbling through her own wedding because she's overdosed on muscle relaxants to fend off the effects of her menstrual period. The resulting physical "comedy" is tedious at best. 
However, the movie isn't without its charm. Molly Ringwald turns in a sweet, affecting performance, and there are many fine actors in smaller roles. Supporting performers include two very young Cuzaks: Joan cast in the unfortunate role of the girl in the neck brace, and John as Bryce, one of the "dip wads" in the clique led by Anthony Michael Hall's Geek/Farmer Ted character. Among the many veteran character actors in the movie is Paul Dooley as Samantha's dad, Jim Baker, oftentimes clueless, but always supportive and loving. (Paul Dooley's clueless/loving father character is very limited here compared with his wonderful performance in a similar, but much more developed role in the earlier 1979 movie, Breaking Away, one of the finest coming-of-age movies from the seventies.)
The limitations of the DVD edition of this movie have already been mentioned by other customers: the lack of special features, and the much ballyhooed digitally remastered 5.1 sound which only seems to be present during Universal's self-serving commercial that begins the disc and nowhere else.