I saw Silence of the Lambs for the first time yesterday...it's a great movie. Anthony Hopkins is the master at playing Hannibal Lector, and Jodie Foster does an excellent job as Clarice. While I won't go into too much plot detail, I will say that this movie is a masterpiece...If you go into this movie thinking you're in for a scare and nightmares for a week, you're not going to like it. Silence isn't one of those kind of movies. What makes this movie so good is the superb acting, and the enjoyable story. While it can be gruesome and scary, that's not entirely what it is. There are also several quotes from the movie that you'll be saying to your friends for weeks, such as "I ate his liver with some fava beans and a nice chianti" and "I do wish we could chat longer but I'm having an old friend for dinner." Thanks to one reviewer, I learned of a prequel called Manhunter made in 1986. I haven't seen it yet, but I want to. I figure that it won't be as good as Silence (since I read the reviews) but I hope it'll at least get the job done, which is filling in the missing story gaps. I wish that Hopkins were in Manhunter, but unfortunately he isn't. If you're thinking about seeing this movie, know a few things first. This movie is rated R for occasional profanity, violence, gore, and slight nudity. Also be aware that after seeing this movie, you'll be hooked instantly. I know for a fact that after renting this, I am definately buying it, along with Manhunter and Hannibal, neither of which I have seen... yet. If you are going to buy the DVD, I suggest the Special Edition because I rented the regular widescreen edition and the speech and music tracks are not balanced. Often music gets much louder than the characters. However, this could be my combination of TV and DVD player, but I use some good quality equipment. Hopefully this is cleared up and remastered in the Special Edition. Again, I will say that this is a great movie, but what would you expect from a movie with all of the awards it's won? Best Actor/Actress, Best Film, to name a few. It's an 11 year old movie, but don't let that discourage you, this film is worthy of a purchase and definately was worthy of its awards.