I remember when Steven Speilberg's "E.T. The Extra Terrestrial" was first released, being touched and awed by such a beautiful and unique film.  Everyone I knew was talking about this film; it struck an emotional cord in young and old alike.  It, along with "Close Encounters of the Third Kind", was one of the first films with aliens where the aliens were NOT portrayed as invading monsters, and we, the people of Earth, didn't immediately shoot first and ask questions later.  Even in the classic "The Day the Earth Stood Still", a soldier shoots at Klatu in one of the earliest scenes.

This story of a boy named Elliot who develops a deep and lasting friendship with a young space alien accidentally left behind on Earth teaches lessons of friendship, devotion, and love. Elliot and his new friend ET show us the power of wonder, innocence, acceptance, curiosity, and communication.  The scene where Elliot begins to attempt to teach ET to talk via a stream of consciousness naming of everything in sight is wonderful, so typically childlike and real. It always brings a huge smile to my face.

I watched ET again last night with my newly 3-year old daughter.  I was amazed.  It immediately captured her attention; she watched it with huge, wide, interested eyes.  As she sat in my lap, she whispered various questions - "What's happening, Mommy?" or "Why are the kids screaming?"  I explained that a young ET had been accidentally left on Earth by his mommy and daddy, that Elliot was searching for ET to bring him back to his house, that the little girl and ET were scared of each other at first, etc.  She took it all in, absorbed it, and clearly thought about it.  When Elliot brought food for ET, and when Drew Barrymore started smiling at ET, my daughter exclaimed, "Oh look, Mama, now they are friends!" with a happy, satisfied smile on her face.  Near the end she said, "He misses his mommy.  ET phoned home." Her sweet, insightful, innocent comments once again brought tears to my eyes.

This film continues to be pure magic.  "E.T." has earned itself a place in movie history, and deserves the highest praise and more.  Introducing it to a young child improves even the best experience, bringing to mind memories of that first time and surpassing them.  It truly is a film for the ages, for all generations, and will be for years to come.