I came across this video at my beloved Seattle Public Library. I have been surrounded by diabetics my whole life; my father died from a heart attack most likely linked to complications from type-2 diabetes. He would have been very similar to the bulk of the participants featured in this documentary. Shockingly, my seemingly healthy 33-year-old husband was also diagnosed as a diabetic about 5 years ago, but he is a type-1 a.k.a. insulin-dependent "juvenile" diabetic. Since my husband's diagnosis I have taken it upon myself to seek out potential alternatives to his current regimen of oral medication and insulin. Though he has been seeing a top-rated endocrinologist since we moved to Seattle, they were incredibly aggressive in treating him with medication rather than helping to make him aware of dietary considerations/supplements that could at least postpone the onset of the numerous health complications that accompany the disease. This is particularly important to us as he is a military officer and his job is at risk due to his condition, so I really have read up on potential cures/remedies.

The premise of this film is to take 6 diabetics of all backgrounds from across the country and put them on a strict raw-vegan 30-day diet at a retreat in Arizona to improve their blood sugar and overall health. I know that the raw food movement is gaining speed and I commend the notion of eating more pure, clean foods. I'm not even opposed to the idea of becoming a vegetarian myself but the type-2 diabetics featured in this film I give about a 5% chance of sustaining such diets based on their lifestyle prior to the film. Obviously they would experience a drastic change in their overall health when one of them used to sustain herself on Cheese Nips and desserts before converting to this raw lifestyle. I liken this film to Morgan Spurlock's documentary "Super Size Me" (which is also mentioned in this film), only the opposite--of course if you eat fast food all day everyday, it will have detrimental health effects, that is not a shocker of cinema.  So if you go from the largely processed standard American diet to one of vegetables and seeds, it's not shocking that your health would improve.  I just don't think this film convinced me that you have to be raw in order to improve your health; why not simply vegetarian, or vegan (advocated by Dr. Neal Barnard) or low-carb (advocated by Dr. Richard K. Bernstein, a long-living type-1 diabetic)?

I personally prefer Dr. Howard Shapiro's approach of having a food pyramid based on vegetables, proteins from legumes and soy products, complex grains, fruits and healthy fats/oils. This documentary gives little to no advice for diabetics watching the film aside from its "eat raw" mantra. It would be nice if they gave a detailed dietary regimen and alternatives as well as recipes and other resources on how to transition from the standard American diet to a raw diet (or at least, a more sustainable diet for diabetics) so that the average diabetic doesn't go into "food shock" where they fall off the wagon within a few days much as one of the participants in the film did.  Also, to say that "Participant X's blood sugar dropped 200 points from day 1 to day 30 on no meds" is misleading--blood sugar is constantly rising and falling.  Give me the results of their Hemoglobin A1C three months later and then I might be impressed.

Second, the film focuses very little on exercise as a proponent for diabetic health. Sure, they do a little yoga/meditating but nothing cardiovascular aside from taking short walks (which are obviously good, but could be improved upon).

From personal experience with my husband's condition, we have found that meals with legumes/beans and complex carbs have the most profound effect on lowering his sugar. That and having a lot more muscle mass have kept his blood sugar down considerably this past year alone.

I will commend the film for its message that you don't have to approach the disease as all Western medicine has and for inspiring these individuals to lead more healthful lifestyles. It clearly had some psychological benefit to most of the participants who felt rejuvenated and less condemned by their condition.  I just think its principle message, "go raw or go home" is a little misleading and doesn't fully encapsulate the potential remedies for the disease.

Oh, and just as an aside and personal pet peeve:  Dr. Cousens, if you want to be taken seriously, lose the hat.