Air Force One is the very first DVD that I viewed after setting up the viewing software on my PC.  I have to admit that I'm a Harrison Ford fan, and I'm not picky about looking for "subtext" or a deep message  within a film.  This is an action film, and it delivers, with the usual  fine performance from Harrison Ford, a reasonable performance from Glenn  Close, and a Gary Oldman-esque performance from Gary Oldman (those who've  seen The Fifth Element will know what I mean).
As a DVD demo, Air Force  One couldn't be better.  In widescreen mode, the video is rich in  detail--especially the night scenes, and my eyes kept panning back and  forth to try to drink it all in.  The effects are what you would expect,  and are rendered flawlessly on my Pentium II-350 w/8MB ATI Rage Pro video  card.  The MPEG decoding was in software, but the ATI board provides motion  correction; even the stills seen when I clicked "pause" didn't  suffer from hardware motion-blur or interlacing.
An unexpected bonus: all  of the firearms-handling was by-the-book:  finger OFF the trigger when not  actually shooting, good muzzle discipline, etc.  No child is going to learn  bad habits from *this* movie (certainly no young child should be watching  it anyway due to the graphic violent content), and it's very refreshing to  see, after the usual spate of know-nothing miseducation-through-idiocy that  comes out of Hollywood.
The Director's Commentary version of the film is  a nice feature.  Unfortunately, I had to have the disc back to the rental  store (as it was, it was a day late), so I didn't have time to watch it  very far.  The theater trailer is also on the disc, as are multilingual  subtitles and multiple choices for audio.  The sound quality is very good,  and pointed up the need for me to get better speakers for this setup (or  spring for a DVD player, appropriate--yet affordable--widescreen TV, and  better speakers for the living room).
At my earliest possible  convenience, I'll be buying this DVD.