I loved Dracula 2000.  Not that the director was breaking any new ground but he understood the erotic nature and cruptiontion of the "Soul" that Vampirisim represented.  On that foundation I was looking forward  to the film and it took a dogs age for it to be released and the third took even longer.

  I had to ignore the fact that in the theatrical leg of this trillogy Dracula was taken back to England by Mary Van Helseig.  I was thinking that would be the likly jumping off point for the next leg but this is not the case.  The Corpse of Dracula is retrieved by the police and taken to the New Orleans Mourge where Elizabeth is working.  Dark shadows of  future evil and mystery present themselves almost from that point on.

  She is wounded by one of the lifeless Counts Cannine teeth while examining and don't think this will not mean something down the line. It was a good device for this film that was almost entirly pushed asside in the second but it is used for great affect in the second.  Watching Elizabeth slowly change over the corse of the film is one of the more erotic parts of the DVD.

  Toss in her friends including a boyfriend dying of a devilitating illness along with the promise of a multi million dollar reward and the problems that come to a rise when a group of inexperianced science types trying to uncover the mysteries of this Corpse and how a bath in human blood brind it back to life and you have have set the stage for mass distruction and some  real gross out moments.

  Jason Scott Lee is the Vatican Vampire hunter who dispaches twin Vamp sisters in the opening and is hot on the trail of Dracula in all his forms and he and Dracula have a bloody and Metaphysical discussion to  end the DVD.

  There are familiuar actors in this film such as Dianne  Neil from "Law and Order SVU" and a breif cameo from Roy Schider from "Jaws" and "Marathon Man" to name a few.  I would not expect a super great film but I didn't feel like I blew my cash on this DVD and that is a good thing.