In short: A miracle! This new version which is 1080P 1.85:1 Widescreen (not 1080i as is the Canadian version and which I have not seen) fills the screen. The original DVD I always had a hard time getting the colors and contrast right. From my view point this movie was shot perfectly that depicted an old European town in available light. The colors were very much muted earth colors except for the reds(both hooded garments of the two main characters)and the lighting was so special in many ways. There is a lot of fog which adds to the back drop of this type of story. If only the DVD could do justice to it. This is probably the most difficult lighting to get right. But this Blu-ray does. I am a black and white photographer that is very aware of the importance of detail in the shadows. Many times, even with Blu-ray they aren't quite right. Often too contrasty but most of the time things can be very good. Some would say I'm fussy but I just have a standard I'm going for. I have an inexpensive LG Blu-ray player and also an LG screen that is not 720 but the true 1080 which does help in both details in shadows and the higher highlights. So with that I will say that out of all my Blu-rays this is the best transfer I've seen to date. The Pixar type movies are always good since they are originally in digital. The movie "9" whether you like the movie or not I think is the best of the bunch. The effects of the "aura" of the textures and colors have their own story that supports the story line: Like a good arrangement behind a voice. The Blu-ray of this movie is of that quality. The fog, all the many pastel colors, are defined but still soft. The skin tones are soft but distinct,and the way the tones and textures of various objects and scenery, that are at times enhanced or changed, are presented perfectly and now makes sense of why they did this. Each scene, for a visual type like myself, was almost distracting. I really have never seen the palette continuously before so well done in a movie:Art in motion. And....not artificial looking like some. The satin in those red hoods is terrific! When the chocolate is mixed in close-ups makes your mouth water.
The sound is in DTS (with a choice for Dolby 5.1) and is also delightful. When voices go out of the scene they are very carefully depicted moving off left or right. The sound stage has great depth to it and the separation in sounds helps the over all choice of music. The tone of the guitar is very clearly heard.
As far as a movie goes, separate from all this teckie stuff, I do think this is one of the best movies I know of. The acting is superb. The story line shows what rigidity does to ones' views. You can even see it in the light of today's political arguments and how when one side or the other becomes rigid in their view point something in the end must give.
Now instead of showing off your system with one of the Pixar cartoons, I would say this is the reference Blu-ray that will be hard to beat! I am so presently surprised. And cheap to. And one added note: This has the ability to save the place last played at. I don't even have to have the flash drive plugged in! You can eject the disk or keep it in. It has a provision that takes a few seconds but says it is looking for "updates" and then a box with the word chocolat comes up and gives you a choice to return to where you left off or not. This will become the standard I hope.
I hope this looks as good to you as it did with me. I know this sounds a bit over done but I really mean this stuff. I wouldn't take the time other wise.