YOU HAVE TO SEE THIS RESTORATION. 
For all of my 30 years of life, I have longed for the day when the manufacturers of Elvis' image (his estate and the various copyright holders of his product) would quit pandering to the least common denominator of his fans and give the world the essence(s) of what he was: the best communicator of song and the best performer/entertainer in the history of the world. As I got older I began to realize that, aside from the early Elvis, Col. Tom never allowed Elvis to associate himself with product that would showcase this fact. I always thought that the '68 comeback special was a fluke in the system because of what it captured of Elvis. 
Until now.
The restorer of this film, either through intentions that he sought to get approval of or through the agenda that was handed to him, has successfully re-edited and reformatted this concert film to be just that: an incredible and masterful concert movie production. 
From the very beginning it is clear what the agenda is going to be: to show the world just how powerful, charismatic, and complete of an entertainer Elvis was during this time. 
Let me take you through a brief tour of the film:
The opening credits have been re-edited to be very cinematic. Even in watching these it's obvious that you're about to witness something that you have never seen before.
True to the original version we spend time with Elvis and band as they rehearse on the MGM lot. But it's different this time. This entire section has been re-edited to make you realize why they are rehearsing and the completeness of it. You don't feel like you're watching a goofball act stupid during rehearsals (like the original made you feel). Now, entire songs are carefully edited that show a band of great session players growing tight and close as a musical structure and to Elvis as his BAND. As a viewer, you don't feel like you're seeing a series of snapshots from the rehearsal (like the original showed you). Instead, when this portion is over, you feel like a much privileged fly-on-the-wall who has just witnessed a great behind-the-scenes synergy being created.
This portion is over and you get in and get out and you're on to Vegas. We're still shown images of Vegas (thank God without the redundant interviews of fans and hotel employees) but they are "sped up" to rush the experience and to show, it seems, the hurried pace and frenetic energy of "needing" to get there.  ALL WITH NEW FOOTAGE.
We spend a little time with Elvis and band rehearsing on the stage of the International and then we're on to his backstage jitters and even that's for a brief time, because the intent of this restoration is to show what this man was ON STAGE.
Aside from the band rehearsal that appears first in the movie, it's the on-stage performance that benefits the most from the restoration. New camera angles have been added (a dolly camera to introduce movement to the movie) and footage from a Phoenix performance (part of a mini-tour at the time) have been included. 
And in doing so, a spectacle is delivered to you that shows why Elvis was so revered in the world of entertainment. Gone is the sentiment of just a man returning to a stage in Vegas. The producers of this restoration have crafted a movie that puts us in a seat in the venue to witness the man's stage prowess, power, and magnetism. For the first time, this movie doesn't merely document Elvis on stage, it showcases what he WAS on stage; what he BROUGHT to the stage. But more importantly, you feel like the cameras started up as he walked on stage and captured the man's every move and every emotion. That's how complete the re-edit is. It seems seamless.
During the restoration, the original 16 track masters to this movie were found and re-mastered to incredible brilliance. Things show up in the mix that were never heard before. During the rehearsals, Glen Hardin's piano is finally heard. Jerry Scheff's bass is remixed to Ronnie Tutt's drums to create the low-end rhythms that, to the viewer, were never before realized. 
Additional bonus material added is a featurette on the making of the restoration (complete with interviews with the producer, and Elvis' original band members, and the always-showing-up-somewhere Joe Esposito). 
Even if you aren't an Elvis fan, you have to witness this restoration on DVD. It's contribution to concert-movie-cinema is that significant.
In one of the few times in my life I feel encouraged and proud to say that I am an Elvis fan.