Tim Burton's CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY is a more faithful, darker rendering of Roald Dahl's 1964 book than the 1971 film. In that, although Gene Wilder was his usual delightful self, the direction, writing, and all other performances were mediocre and date badly. The changes from the book gave it a bland tone and a cheap look. Burton's film is a completely different vision, more like Dahl in its sophisticated whimsy and nightmarish quality, accomplished in Burton's inimitable style. Depp is a dismissive, sardonic Wonka; Wilder was just loopy. Any notion that Depp's subtle, eccentric performance has anything to do with Michael Jackson is way off-base: Depp's Wonka actually despises children, revealing that he was trying to find a child who was "the least repulsive," a far-cry from an adult who wants to recapture his own childhood. The Burton film is not unlike Nicholas Roeg's faithful adaptation of Dahl's THE WITCHES--really close to Dahl's curmudgeonly view of children and the world; but CHARLIE goes farther with an ingenious, stunning visual style. The performances and look are genuinely funny, surreal, or moving. Depp acts rings around Wilder (these days, around anyone: it seems his range and flexibility are limitless). There is an added subplot dealing with Wonka's background, presumably written so that Christopher Lee could be included, about which some have complained. I think it works beautifully, and Lee is always a joy to watch. Recall that Dahl *disowned* the 1971 film and even refused to permit the use of his original title. He had been asked to write a screenplay, which was then radically altered into the bland mash that became WILLIE WONKA AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY. The Burton film has no such problems. However, I'm not sure I'd recommend it for all American children, given its morbidity and nihilistic tone. Unlike Americans, the English have never been afraid to show their kids the world without candy-coating it--another reason that the Burton film is far more authentic than its pallid 1971 screen predecessor. I think Dahl would have approved of this one. The DVD presents a crisp, colorful transfer in widescreen (avoid the zoomed/cropped full-screen version).