I own 10 of leslies DVDs and this one if my absolute favorite! I love having the choice to do just one mile, i have a one mile DVD from her that i really like. This DVD however gives you 5 different 1 miles. I needed some variety and this DVD delivers it.

(PRO'S)
Its One DVD with all 5 miles, each mile is ment to target different muscles. You can choose whatever mile you want! choose how many miles you want to do (maybe you want to just do 2 miles) or you can do the entire workout. Their is a warm up and a cool down/stretch included as well. You dont have to do these, although i do not recommend doing any kind of exercise without a warm up/cool down. However you might want to do your own version. Okay getting back to the review...... This is great for people new to Leslies walking workouts because you have the choice to do just one mile and can slowly increase. And perfect for you advanced walkers!

Warm Up Walk - 5 mins

Day 1: The Classic Walk - 1 mile, 14 mins

Day 2: Sculpt Your Arms - 1 mile, 14 mins

Day 3: Slim your Legs (my favorite) 1 mile, 14 mins

Day 4: Trim Your Tummy - 1 mile, 14 mins

Day 5: Speed Walk - 1 mile, 12 mins

Cool Down Walk & Stretch - 9 mins

personal note: I really started seeing results after i  started doing/including the "Slim Your Legs" mile in my routine. I wasnt getting through her other 5 fast miles DVD, i needed to do strength training on my legs but really had no idea what or how to do it. Leslie guides you through it perfectly and Now that my legs are stronger doing the whole DVD is no longer a difficult task for me. I think this is the most important mile because you cant get a good workout if your legs are getting tired to quickly.

My Routine: Im not a newbie but im not a pro either. I love her workouts but this is really the only one that targets specific muscle groups. I started off with the warm up and then did the classic walk just to get my cardio in, then i did the slim your legs mile. I did this 3 times a week at first and after 2 weeks i had amazing results! i lost a couple inches in my hips, thighs and butt WHOO HOO! lol lol now i workout 5 times a week, and one is the whole 5 miles. Im really starting to loose weight. Im so thrilled and happy i felt i had to share this anyone considering buying this. You really cant go wrong with this DVD.