Gettysburg is indeed a war movie, but it is much, much more than a typical war movie.  Indeed, it is my very favorite movie, and I feel inexplicably drawn to the profound emotional pilgrimage of seeing it again every few years.  I relate to it on many levels, and I think you may too...

As a student of history, I am fascinated by how this one battle decided not only the fate of America, but had a huge impact on world history.  Can you imagine how very different Europe might be today if there were no undivided United States to come and help in WWI, WWII, or the Cold War?

As a fallible human, I am still astounded at how a relatively small error or two coupled with pride probably meant the difference in the battle, and hence world history.

As a moviegoer, I deeply appreciate how the movie maker was very careful for the details.  As those civil war buffs in the audience know, this is sacred ground, and I appreciate the care given to it by the movie makers.  Indeed, the movie used over 4000 civil war re-enacters as extras.

As a friend to others, I am deeply moved at how a trio of officers, close friends in the US Army for many years, all were drawn into this battle; when its effects were over, two would be dead and the third wounded.  And on the night before the climactic battle, two of them know the next day their units will be facing each other in battle, and are agonizing over it. Even after seeing it 6-7 times, I still cannot help but weep when one of the friends cries out to God for the fate of this trio near the end of the movie.

As a veteran, when a brave officer whose unit is out of ammunition orders a desperate charge, I shudder uncontrollably, and my only thought is "He did his duty."  I am also fascinated by the variety of reasons the soldiers on both sides had for fighting in the war, which the movie wonderfully articulates.

As a citizen, I am very conflicted.  I am thankful that the union was preserved and slavery abolished.  But I shudder at how states rights were weakened; indeed, for decades now in my opinion the Tenth Amendment has been virtually ignored.

As a Christian, I find it fascinating and thought-provoking  how more overtly Christian officers and soldiers on both sides were, and am intrigued by Col. Chamberlain, a devout Christian.

As a student of culture and society, I am fascinated at the differences between southern and northern cultures and societies which are clearly depicted throughout the movie.  As a British military attach&eacute; so aptly observes, "Same land.  Same god.  Different dreams.  Very different dreams."