I am going to skip the review of the movie, which I will asume you already like and go straight to what I feel might interest you the most, this specific DVD edition.

From the cover to the serigraphy on the disc (silver plated letters and a full color scene from the movie) this DVD shows the great quality elements and care that conforms it.

This is a double disc edition which in the first disc includes the movie in its new video transfer and sound mix, 4 video clips of that great soundtrack (Kenny Loggins "Danger Zone", Loverboy "Heaven in your eyes", Berlin "Take my breath away" and Harold Faltermeyer "Main Theme" instrumental, all this in a fullscreen Dolby Pro-logic transfer) a commentary with the producer, the director and with the navy assessors of the film which is very interesting if you like to know how they shoot that specific scene or why the aircraft made that specific move. The second disc include a gallery, a multi-angle storyboard, a 6-part documentary on the making of the film an a small interview with Tom Cruise among other tidbits.

Video: The movie looks amazing with a sepia and bluish palette that just stands out the sky, the sea and the rocky landscape that appear so often in the training-dogfight sequences. You can notice very few artifacts and you can tell they made a great job at cleaning and restoring this transfer, it might be a little dark at times but must of the time the shadows and light are well balanced. If you have a DVD player with progressive scan you will tell the difference right away against earlier DVD editions.

Sound: Now we get to the core and creme of this edition. This got to be one of the greatest 6.1 mixes (1 center speaker, 2 frontal speakers, 2 rear surround speakers, 1 back surround speaker and the subwoofer) I have ever heard in a while (Mmm except maybe the LOTR trilogy), everything from the music to the roar of the engines it precisely located in each speaker of your home theater, not to much rear not to much front, just the perfect balance, you can hear the dialogue crisp and clear and when the F-14's flyby prepare to make your speakers work at its fullest, specially your subwoofer (watch out your dishware because your house its going to rumble).

If you have a DTS capable receiver this should be your ONLY choice to watch this movie and if you do have that back surround speaker this mix it's going to use it a LOT. From the beginning when you see the aircraft moving slowly on the carrier deck you can hear the controller talking on the radio and that sound comes from the surround back speaker exclusively while Kenny Loggins voice comes from the center and the engines from the fronts, surround and sub.

This is highly recommended acquisition for any serious fan of Top Gun and for any fan of dogfights and war theme films.

A plus, this DVD makes for a superb demo for showcasing your home theater to your friends.

So just push play and let Maverick and Goose take you for a high-octane ride!.