After his monumental victory over Apollo Creed in Rocky 2, Rocky Balboa returns in Rocky 3. His world now is in stark contrast to what was portrayed in the original Rocky, and to some degree, Rocky 2. In R1, Rocky is a social outcast, unwanted, unkempt, and a person who barely can support himself, let alone survive. Realistically, he is a bum. He pays his dues as a club fighter, then gets a shot at the charismatic world champ, "Apollo" Creed, who does indeed look like a Greek god. After Balboa endures a tough match with creed, this is indeed the begining of his journey out of the harsh existence he lived in South Philadelphia and on to a stellar boxing career. In R2, things begin to take a turn for the better financially, though he has to work a little harder to live.  Things are not as bad as before, and this seems to be a transitional phase for him. He has bought himself a modest house and a sports car and also gets the chance to do commercials, even though this does not work out well. After quiting boxing temporarily and being humiliated back into the ring, he eventually defeats Creed for the World Title, and is catapulted into stardom. In addition, he marries "Adrian" and has a son.

Now, we arrive at Rocky 3. In contrast to R1, Mr Balboa is not only the world champ now, but has reached the pinnacle of success as a boxer he has longed for; he has earned millions, lives like a king in a stately castle-like mansion, he sports a new dapper image in his designer suits, has a new hairstyle, is well manicured and groomed,  drives exotic sports cars and is chauffered around in a limo as well. He is on the cover of "Time" and numerous other publications, countless commercials, pursued by many women much to the chagrin of Adrian, and is probably the most popular and loved guy on the planet. It's a life that the majority of us can only remotely fathom. Rocky is also a carved, tanned and chisled specimen, every muscle fine tuned and ready for action. He is literally on top of the world at this point and has it in his hands. Nothing could be better, and life is great. Rocky also takes on  a match between him and the one and only "Hulk" Hogan, a mammoth wrestling superstar, as a way to further promote his celebrity and support a good cause as well.

We are also presented with clips of Balboa literally demolishing his opponents with ease, each fight as if it were just "another day in the office" for him. During those clips, we also see a mysterious, freakish character who destroys his opposition, and is also present at one of Balboa's fights. More on him shortly :)

Rocky is at the top of his game, is in peak physical and mental condition, and seems to be cruising towards an early retirement. One day, he announces to a mass of supporters at an unveiling of his statue that he is finally leaving the ring. Then, Alas, we are introduced to a one "Clubber" Lang, BKA "Mr. T", who eventually becomes one of the most popular and recognizable celebrities and icons of the 1980s and beyond. Lang, an intimidating figure, is a hungry, boisterous, cocky but well skilled and confident fighter. Currently, he is undefeated, and the top contender for the world title who wants his chance. At the outdoor gathering Lang not only demands a title shot from Balboa, but challenges Balboa on the spot and makes lewd remarks to Adrian as well. This almost brings the two men to blows, and after departing the ruckus at the event, Rocky later decides he will grant Mr. Lang a shot.

 However, "Mickey", Balboa's longtime trainer, friend and confidant urges Rocky NOT to take this fight. Mickey, in his great experience and wisdom as a fight trainer, sees that Balboa has lost the edge, and tells him that he can't win against Lang.  Mickey's famous "he's a human wrecking machine", one of the best undocumented quotes in the series,  does not disuade Balboa one bit. this upsets Rocky, and the two become at odds over the situation. Eventually, Mickey reluctantly trains Balboa. Adrian is also apprehensive, but supports him as well.

Balboa sets up training headquarters in the lobby of a posh hotel, filled with admirers and distractions, unlike the rough and ragged South Philly gym where he honed his champion skills. Rocky is not focused on his training, and  the whole spectacle is a joke. Mickey does not like the setup, and insists they go back to the old gym. Rocky figures he will dispose of Lang in a few rounds, so why bother? It is nothing like the classic Rocky training for a fight here at all. None of the sweat, none of the passion he enveloped himself in previously. He seems to have lost his hunger, his desire and motivation. Most of all, "The eye of the Tiger".

Meanwile, Lang trains possessed, like a madman, running, skipping, bagwork and pullups, situps, all in a makeshift, dungeonlike gym. The shots of him training are classic, especially the pullups. You can see how passionate he is, and how bad he wants to win.

The date of the fight arrives, and in the hallway, Lang and Balboa confront each other amongst a crowd of security, ring personnel and press. Mickey then suffers a heart attack, and is broght to the locker room. Mickey's condition worsens, and Balboa is not in the mental state of mind to fight. Mickey, as his last gift to Rocky, urged him to go ahead with the fight.

As Rocky enters the arena he is distracted, deflated and defeated. He is totally oblivious to the crowd, and he would rather be anywhere but the fight. Apollo Creed makes an appearance, and since their last fight, Balboa and Creed  still appear to have some slight tension between them. Nonetheless, Creed breaks the ice and gives Rocky his best wishes against Lang, who rebuffed him seconds earlier, and in turn, Rocky, though surprised, reciprocates the gesture. The two fighters then square off finally, and Rocky lands some good punches here and there, but they are not telegraphed or thrown with the deliberation of a champion. After a few minutes of sizing Balboa up, Lang assaults him with a never ending barrage of rib crushing blows. A few more minutes of combinations, Lang delivers a terrifying knockout punch and Balboa is down for the count,  with Lang the new world champion. Rocky who just suffered a humiliating loss, heads back to the locker room and watches Mickey draw his last breath. Devastated over Mickey's death and his defeat, Rocky cannot make sense of what just happened.

Mickey's funeral takes place, then Rocky mulls over the events of the last few days. He goes back to the old gym, and ponders his future, retraces his steps and remenisces about Mickey. All of a sudden, a deep, familiar voice breaks the silence, and none other than Apollo Creed enters the training area. Rocky is apprehensive at first, wondering what the hell is he doing here? After an awkward exchange of pleasantries, the tension settles and Creed tells Balboa that his success and material wealth has taken his edge and hunger away. Creed then extends the offer to help Balboa get the "Eye of the Tiger" back and defeat Lang. Rocky accepts. Even though Creed has talked badly about Balboa in the previous 2 movies, he seemed to have an underlying respect for Rocky, even though he didn't show it.

 An unlikely partnership and eventual friendship is formed between the two, who were once bitter enemies in and out of the ring, and Balboa announces a comeback with Creed in his corner. Rocky, annoying brother in law  "Paulie", Creed, his own trainer "Duke", and Adrian trek to Creed's old gym in L.A. to help get back his fire. Initially, Rocky is slow and sluggish, and has no desire to train anymore, much to the frustration of Apollo, who almost gives up. I think the fact that Mickey was not around definitely played a part in this. In time, however, we begin to see the old Rocky come back to life, the sweat, the perfect, machine gun like precision on the bags and the rope. Creed and Duke also have Rocky doing different excercises, such as swimming and sprinting on the beach, really going all out. One of the most inspirational and famous soundtracks ever made, Survivor's hit "The eye of the Tiger" is played during training, and really adds intensity to the impending events to come.

After additional traning, the entourage heads back home, and the fight with Lang takes place. After all of the pre-fight hype, the two meet for the second time, and in the face off, Lang says "I'm gonna bust you up."Rocky says,"Go for it." The two then exchange punches, and Lang discovers he is facing a vastly different opponent this time, a different challenger than before who did not earn his name by mistake. Lang lands punishing blows, and it almost seems as if Balboa may take a turn for the worse. Rocky then makes a classic comback, and floors Lang to reclaim the title.

I will definitely say that this was the last true film of the Rocky saga, and IMO, should have been the final segment to a great story. Mr T definitely added to this picture, and honestly, it would have not been as appealing without him. I will go on a very fragile limb and say he stole parts of the movie, but not the entire film. While it was sad to see Mickey move on, I think this was another important part of the series. If you haven't seen this film, do yourself a favor and give it a go. You won't be disappointed.