In short, Cowboy Bebop is a chronicle of the ca-razy adventures of four bounty hunters and an eerily intelligent dog. Obviously, if you took this general synopsis at face value, I can bet that you wouldn't be particularly interested in sacrificing a good portion of your leisure time to watch something that sounds like THAT- it sounds closer to the sort of thing that makes you want to throw a remote control into the TV and watch David Letterman or something. However, Cowboy Bebop is so much more then your standard bounty hunter show- it's extremely original, very addictive, and extremely stylish- not to mention there's nothing else really like it in movies or film. Cowboy Bebop has the commendable ability to bring together parts from all sorts of genre's of live action film and Japanese anime and glue it all back together into something with real style and a sense of humor- Bebop is certainly a professional work, but it also doesn't take itself seriously in the pretentious way a lot of them there' anime series are lately- it makes jokes at itself and the humor is always sly and vaguely dark- a large amount of cuteness is not something you'll be forced to weather as you watch this DVD. If you enjoy following long, sweeping plot lines and consider filler episodes the bane of your existence, it might be wise to stay away from Bebop- the intent of this show is definitely not to tell a completely fleshed out and epic story, because this series is all about the characters. 
Each of the characters is well fleshed out and has a past and a present- the desperate citizens of the good ship (or well disguised hell hole) Bebop range the gamut from Spike Spiegel, a lanky young martial artist with a dangerous PAST that he can't quite escape from, to Jet Black, a gruff former cop with an adoration of bonsai trees and cooking (badly), to Edward, an insane hacker girl who's never apart from a super intelligent Welsh Corgi called Ein, and we've even got the token Hot Girl, except that Faye Valentine, a tough and shrewish woman who can't even remember HER past, happens to be a lot more then fan service aimed at 14 year old boys. However, these bounty hunters, turning the genre on it's head, aren't very efficient- they rarely catch their man and they're usually out of money, eating bell peppers and beef or dog food (!) until the next bounty comes up. 
  Either way, Bebop is one of those series that just sort of sweeps you along- as the series proceeds, you're given enticing snippets about each characters past, and even by the end of the series, all of your question haven't been answered- one of the great things about Bebop is that it's open to interpretation. Again, the sessions are all over the place in subject- you'll get plot sessions and hard core action sessions and humor sessions and romance sessions- Bebop is very good at variety.
Thankfully, the animation completely matches the story- the animation is a good as most anime movie releases, and the special effects and character design are all incredible- perhaps one of the most stand-out aspects of the series is the wonderful painting of the cities the Bebop crew stumbles through in search of the latest bounty- the cities all really look like you'd expect them to look in 2071- kind of futuristic, but still maintaining the definite possibility of a seedy underworld beneath the surface. The Bebop world is one of the most realistic future worlds you'll find in a series-unlike the utopian (and extremely boring) worlds of most science fiction series, the Bebop world is still full of crime, corruptness, and general good old fashioned sinning'- this isn't a children's series either. 
As you could have already guessed, yes, I do highly recommend this series- it's my favorite tv show/movie(and that includes live action) and it's simply one of the best things to come out of Japan in a long time- and you certainly don't have to be an anime fan to enjoy it. Bebop is for everyone who can appreciate good entertainment.