It can be argued that once Paramount pictures put a cut to the Friday The 13th Series at Part VIII (Jason Takes Manhattan) that maybe we should have let sleeping dogs lie, however given recent releases on the big lug, it seems that Jason Goes To Hell was just a rough start.

The plot is new and inventive (which says something for this series!) but unfortunately it's also disappointing.  Jason is back at Crystal Lake and this time a SWAT team has decided to take him out once and for all (which they do in the opening scene).  Once in the morgue, Jason makes his way through bodies via nasty tentacles in their mouths, to find his way back to one of his bloodline to be reborn.  There are only three Voorhies bloodline left and they lie in the hands of two weak females and a small baby.  Does Jason have a chance, or will he end up in hell?

The worst part about this movie was definitely the plotline, in that it doesn't have Jason doing the killing!  Sure, it's his spirit that just wears a different body, but when you've seen what Jason looks like that can be a big deal!  There's a decent budget connected with the film, and although the acting is horrible, it isn't much worse than any of the other Jason films.  What I did like was that it still, with all its faults, stuck to the original idea of all the films before it: keep it gory and true fans will accept it.  That's exactly what I did.  This movie had some pretty impressive death scenes (especially in the unrated edition) and the blood and gore kept flowing.  Not of the best in the series, but definitely worth at least checking out for any Jason fan.

The DVD, unlike this installment, is quite impressive.  If Paramount had done with some of the better movies what New Line did with this one, you'd see those Friday The 13th sales skyrocket (and as I recently discovered, that wrong won't be made right by the soon to be released boxed set which in fact uses LESS features than the current releases, see my review)!  The movie contains both the R-rated and unrated editions (nudity buffs will be saddened to learn that I believe the unrated edition is purely due to gore), which is helpful because the unrated does lengthen the movie a bit and it can be argued that it may not be worth it (more importantly, I like the CHOICE of having BOTH).  It also includes the added scenes that were on the edited for TV version to complete any fans want to have EVERY scene.  Most importantly for me though, was the fact that this movie was presented in 5.1 DTS, 5.1 Dolby Digital, or 2.0 Stereo for non-surround sound systems.  Talk about going out of your way to make a pretty weak Jason film with the supra deluxe features!  The DVD is great, especially if you like this movie, and the movie ain't half bad itself.  My advice: if you haven't seen it, rent it, if you're a fan of Jason and found it decent, buy it!