I can't believe that the crew who filmed this movie didn't have anyone able to explain Vietnamese ethics to Heidi. I'm not even Vietnamese, but having a considerably sized Vietnamese population in my region and being that my son is half Vietnamese half white, I'm morally obligated as a parent of a bi-racial Vietnamese/white child to try to understand what I can. Ok, with that said, I understand very clearly the financial obligation of the kids in Vietnamese society. It's rooted in the whole 'first son' values. I'm not opposed to it and as a matter of fact, I think it's fantastic once you understand how it connects the family. They were just asking her to connect with her family and fulfill her Vietnamese duty. After all, her mother did give her up to SAVE HER LIFE from the guerillas whom she had heard were going around killing mixed-race children.

Heidi interpreted the situation from an American standpoint and made a typical (American) assumption that they were way too interested in just money from her. When in fact, their society is rooted in obligation to parents which maintains the family.

Even from the American standpoint, if I were her, I would have at least promised a small amount monthly to ease some of their struggle... even if it's just $50, that's at least enough to pay for something important in Vietnam. A google search showed me that the average YEARLY salary in Vietnam is just $500 which works out to just $41/month. For just $41/month, she could have provided a monthly typical worker's salary to her family.

Obviously, her family in Vietnam loved her and missed her dearly. They had great hopes for their future, and they should. I hope this film was rigged and Heidi's reaction was fake and that the family received a large payment for their part in the film. If this was a genuine reaction and it's true that she 'closed the door', I sincerely hope she reconsiders. From an American standpoint who somewhat understands Vietnamese sentiment, I could tell she has a VERY nice, LOVING family in Vietnam.