I finally watched this movie, hoping for a more CGI version of Fassbinder's remarkably great movie "World on a Wire" (1973), or even something that was respectful to the original story. It was neither; I was astounded at how bad this movie was.

Notes before reading: 1) I read the Galouye story, "Simulacron-3," BEFORE watching either Fassbinder's adaptation or this one; 2) I am a fan of Armin Mueller-Stahl; 3) I enjoy sci-fi immensely. I really, really attempted to like this movie, mostly because of the numerical ratings it has received here and on imdb (and I don't read the written reviews beforehand).

The beginning really made me believe I was going to be awed: the great 1930s landscape, a film noir look, interesting-looking set designs, and (to top it all off) the GREAT Armin Mueller-Stahl! But what brought me awe quickly turned into balderdash. The story merely relied on 1/3rds of the original story, with the characters changing their original literary roles that gave the story so much depth. The questions of "what is real" in the original story was not the cynical plot of this adaptation. The special effects were the equivalent to those of a rock concert, with laser lights in fog, glowing eyes, and (straight from television's "Stargate SG-1" - but even less graphic) wormholes! I don't know what the budget was for this movie, but I guarantee that Fassbinder's wonderful adaptation was even less than the budget for this movie.

The story follows Douglas Hall and his attempt to find the killer of Fuller, his partner. Dennis Haysbert plays, with little depth, a detective (who has an entirely different role in the story) attempting to find the murderer. Vincent d'Onofrio looks and acts like a slightly-overweight John Malkovich, playing the most interesting character, the Simulacron-3 technician, but, with how interesting the other characters were, this really isn't saying much. Basically, you have a huge cast of TV actors and actresses, and there is a reason that they do TV (even though some have "touched" cinema, off and on).

I really don't know how far to go in the scenario, but I felt like I was watching a really bad, B-grade, made-for-cable-TV sci-fi that was relying more upon capitalizing on the success of "The Matrix" and others of its ilk than being true to Galouye's story. I tend to believe that the filmmakers were wanting to "jump on the bandwagon" at the time, regardless of the cost to the original story. Perhaps many of those reviews that give this movie such high marks were done by those anti-"The Matrix" fans. I really don't know. Maybe times have changed, and many of the reviewers may want to go back and replay this movie with some more objectivity.

Even more aggravating is that the movie must be so bad in the producers' eyes that they can't even stand to release the DVD in WIDESCREEN!!! That really tells you something!

I commented to my wife that more money was probably spent on the helicopter shots than the rest of the movie. I really wish Galouye's original story would be given the credit and respect it is due, along with the ability to do so with the CGI effects that are now the mainstay of cinema.

I give 2 stars for Mueller-Stahl (always a great screen presence, even though his acting is wasted here) and for the quite breathtaking ending effects of the future in the end - the end being the closest to that of the novel, but too late for the rest of the movie to be good.