A film based on history is often hard to make entirely true, especially when the films main plot is corruption and lies. In All the President's Men, a film about the break in at the Democratic headquarters, Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein are spotlighted as they break the story to the Washington Post about the corruption in the White House. The diligence and hard work of these two reporters marks the ending an era for President Nixon.

 This films stars two Hollywood greats. Dustin Hoffman portrays Bernstein, a more established writer with a keen sense of acquiring the truth while his counterpart is played by Robert Redford. Redford depicts the sophisticated Bob Woodward, who at first, breaks the story to the Post. In the beginning, the story seemed very far-fetched, but with the persistence of these two men, the story started to make front- page news. These two actors were a perfect match up for the dup of Bernstein and Woodward.

 Having known only the basics about this historical event, All the Presidents Men was a great way to reassure all of my beliefs. After watching this film, I had a better understanding of the corruption that took place in Washington and the aftermath of the situation. The actions of Bernstein and Woodward almost seemed surreal because they were so strong-minded in their pursuit for the truth. It was fascinating to see the progression of the story as well as the culmination of the Watergate scandal. I had never known the behind the scenes action of Watergate and now it is all comprehensible that the pursuit for a good story brought down a President.

 All in all, this film was beneficial to watch if you enjoy the twists behind politics and journalism. You might be taken back by the short ending in which the film culminates by the conviction and verdict of those involved in the scandal. This film definitely deserves to be seen, especially to those who are interested in learning more about this historical event. All the Presidents Men is not only an entertaining movie, but also an educational film. Enjoy!