On April 1997, ECW broke through all rival promotions to present the most grueling PPV of the year, "Barely Legal" 1997. Although lacking the pomp and grandiose of Wrestlemania, "Barely Legal" easily held on its own with terrific hardcore action and ooh-ahh spots that had everyone on the edge of their seats.
1.) Eliminators vs. Dudley Boyz- This is a near-total squash, but what a beautifully done squash! Perry Saturn and John Kronos deliver their most perfect performance ever with a never-ending array of somersaults and brain-busting double-team kicks! This may be more like a Ringling Brs. Circus spectacle than an actual wrestling match, but you will be amazed of the pace so much that you can only thirst for more ECW! ****
2.) Lance Storm vs. Rob Van Dam- The fans on this show don't give enough credit to either man in one of their numerous encounters together. If you think Jerry Lynn is Rob's most common opponent, then you've flat out missed Storm. Both men are harassed with boos and curses on all sides (Lance because he makes pathetic chair shots, and Rob because he messes up some maneuvers with the ropes). Besides that, a healthy does of technical, mid-air mayhem, supplied with plenty of innovative ideas with chairs, makes this match one for fans of Storm and Van Dam. Now that both men are in the WWF, expect them to be the next rivalry since Rock & Austin or Benoit & Jericho. ****1/2
3.) Michinoku Pro- Remember Taka Michinoku, from WWF's Kaientai? If you're one of those people who thinks he's a pathetic Japanese goof-off, you haven't see him back in the days as part of the Lucha-style Michinoku Pro promotion. Along with Dick Togo and Mens Teioh, Taka faces off against Masato Yakushuji, Gran Naniwa, and the greatest Japanese luchadore ever, Grand/Great Sasuke, in the most stratospheric battle you might have ever seen. Forget RVD, these guys take airborne to new heights! It seems ever minute, at least two men are jumping over each other to get the better hand (or foot) over the other. Moonsaults, Lionsaults, Suicide Dives, Triple-team Slams, Piledrivers, Tornado DDTs, Senton Splashes...the list of air moves goes on and on, and that's coming from a cast of fighters with a half of them weighing over 240 pounds! If you are to see only one tag team wrestling match in your entire life, make it this one! This is match of the night. *****++
4.) Shane Douglas vs. Pitbull #2- You've seen one match between these guys, you've seen them all...That's the best I could say about this confrontation for the TV title. Douglas is okay, but Pitbull #2 is awfully messy and keeps making mistakes in this match (Hence, the audience keeps chanting "B.S." and Pitbull #2 never gets to stick around in the ECW universe for long). The closing sequences to the match are very similar to the 4 Corners TV match almost 6 months before, so if you've seen that classic, you won't be surprised who'd win this match in the end. The subplot involving a masked man is bound to confuse newbies to ECW. ***
5.) Sabu vs. Taz- Just about any ECW fan would say this match, involving the suicidal, homicidal, genocidal high-flyer Sabu and the suplexing machine Taz, is very disappointing by the standards of both men. In a way, they're right. The weardown holds Taz keeps doing to Sabu are way too long, and Sabu keeps getting too vulnerable to Taz's hits. There are a few highlight moments, though, such as Sabu's leaps off of chairs and a messed-up table spot that has him tasting wood. Hardcore Sabu/Taz fans would diss this as an amateur accomplishment, but it is important in introducing Bill Alfonso as the hilarious manager of Sabu and Sabu's partner, none other than egomaniac Rob Van Dam. ***1/2
6.) Big Stevie Cool vs. The Sandman vs. Terry Funk- The Innovator of Violence, Tommy Dreamer, sits down next to announcer Joey Styles in the hopes that mentor Terry Funk would vanquish archenemy Raven off his World Heavyweight Championship. The problem for the Funker is that he first must survive this hardcore Three-Way Dance against the popular leader of the Blue World Order and the ultimate ECW hardcore icon, and what a confrontation it is. It's a 20-minute war as chairs, tables, a ladder, a garbage can, and barb-wire streamers are the weapons of choice in this insane brawl. (How many times did the fans go "Ooh" when a ladder slammed down on a poor luchadore?) Highlight moments include a loud slap fest, a ladder landing on everyone's noggin every few moments, even some brutal see-saw action with the ladder thrusting up on someone's chin!) Very illogical, but truly brutal and worth looking at for its unbelievable content. ****1/4
7.) Terry Funk vs. Raven- The Funker survives the battle, but all battered and broken, he must take on a fully fresh slacker who is also the World Heavyweight Champion. This is more of a spot fest than a total wrestling match, but the story being told here is well done. Raven begins severely blading Funk with a chair, causing the 53-year old to bleed in sickening pints (Makes this THE scariest moment in this show). Although a doctor tries to help out Funk, Raven continues to assault the man with his cronies and even smashes him through a table on the outside. Raven then begins to taunt ole Tommy Dreamer that he'll end the career of Dreamer's tutor right before the Innovator. Dreamer is incensed and demands to fight Raven, until Big D. Dudley comes up and attacks him from behind. The burly Dudley then grabs Dreamer and prepares to level him with 3 stacked tables below. But Tommy kicks out and sends Big D. crashing right through the tables into unrecognizable splinters! ("Oh my GOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOODDDDDDDDD!!") Raven is stunned that the plan backfires, and suddenly, Dreamer pursues his opponent and lands Raven with a DDT! In due time, Funker is able to pin the slacker and become the first man to win the ECW World Heavyweight Championsip on a PPV! Dreamer and Funk warmly hug each other as the crowd proudly shouts, "ECW! ECW! ECW!..." This was just too cool an ending. ****1/4
So there you have it. The mid-card may be slightly weak, but the earlier matches and the double main-event makes this again an ECW video worth the money. You won't regret it.