Gwen, (Kiera Knightley) Robin Hood's (Stuart Wilson) daughter lost her mother as a young child, and has seen her father only a handful of times because he has been on Crusade most of her life. When he returns on the death of King Richard she believes he will finally stay for good and they will be a proper family.
Robin however had been entrusted with a special mission by King Richard, to ensure that his illegitimate son and heir Philip (Stephen Moyer) becomes King instead of dastardly John (Johnathon Hyde) who will go to any lengths to take the throne. This mission takes him away from home once again. This arouses the jealousy of Gwen who is determined to go with her father to prove herself, and make him feel guilty about leaving her behind because she is a girl.
Things to not go according to plan however when Robin's Nemesis the Sheriff of Nottingham (Malcolm MacDowell) takes him hostage to stop him from foiling Prince John's sinister plans to sieze the throne, leaving Gwen with the responsibility of rescuing him, defeating the evil Sheriff and his henchmen and ensuring Philip takes his rightful place on the throne of England.

Originally a TV movie for Disney Channel this is yet another Robin Hood 'spin off', it has a better (and unusually almost entirely British ) cast most other such productions, though this is because Disney of course has more money at their disposal.

Prince John is as usual an incompetent childish fool, but his acting is as bad as his persona, and is matched by all the other baddies with the exception of The Sheriff of Nottingham. For some bizarre reason the British actor in the role of Will Scarlet has a very unrealistic Scottish accent throughout. I can understand this from an American actor who cannot do a British accent, but why from a Brit?

All the characters (including the peasants) have perfectly clean clothes throughout, never get dirty, and look immaculate all the time even when they are in the forest.
One character jumps in front of an archer to 'take and arrow' for Prince Philip in the style of an action movie, but recovers after 5 minutes.
The film makers seemed also to have little knowledge of the Geography of Britain, as characters are able to travel the 125 Miles from Nottingham to London in a couple of hours with what must have been incredibly fast horses. As another reiviewer mentioned, Gwen is called a 'commoner' but should not be because according to traditional interpretations of the Legends both her parents were of noble blood.

It is very corny and predictable, with the typical resolution of Robin nearly being killed by the Sheriff but being saved by the good guys just in time. Still, such is to be expected from a children's film.
This one has something to please most children up to about the age of about 11 with a good looking hero and heroine, a `kickass' girl in the leading role, plenty of action including sword-fighting and archery, deeds of daring doo, all the familiar 'Robin Hood' characters and a happy ending.
My only concern would be that somechildren who didn't know that much about History might end up believing that King Richard's son Philip really did become King of England. This is probably not very likely though.

Some have commented that the main problem with this movie is that is a TV movie that tries to be a Big Screen movie, but fails. I am inclined to agree. It is slightly better than the average Children's TV movie, and has been released on DVD everywhere from Australia to Korea and Hungary but for some reason bypassed the UK.