Character, directed and adapted from novel by Mike van Diem, is an extraordinary example of why Hollywood is out of the loop when it comes to storytelling in film. It is also a paradigm of postmodernism that, at a time when Hollywood is the sludge export to the rest of the world, a Dutch film about a Depression-era family is so refreshing and well received. 
Dreverhaven. In the town that he works in as court bailiff, Arend Barend Dreverhaven (Jan Decleir) is a name feared by everyone; his son is no exception. Jacob Willhem (Feja Van Huet, who facially resembles Robert Downey Jr. and Rufus Sewell) is the illegitimate offspring of Dreverhaven and his housekeeper, Joba (Betty Schuurman). After the night Dreverhaven rapes her (supposedly, it is never made clear there was consent) and she learns of her pregnancy, Joba leaves him and raises the child on her own. She is a stern woman who refuses Dreverhaven's proposals of marriage. They are sent monthly with a check and the terse question: "When is our wedding?" 
Jacob grows up with the shadow of his father's prominence around him and the cries of bastard in his ears. Joba is silent to the point of being mute and when he asks about his father he only gets the reply, "We need nothing of him." He eventually does stop proposing and keeps his eye on the boy and his mother from afar. His work, in early 20th century Netherlands, consisted mostly of evicting tenants from their homes and carrying out the unhappy law. It is not a cheery story and van Diem creates a darker visual aesthetic similar to Von Trier's Zentropa and Soderberg's Kafka. He is amazingly successful and the film is shot beautifully amongst the harshness of the story. 
Jacob's world changes when -- after an untimely move precipitated by his mother being taunted in the streets with "whore" -- he finds a sack of books left by the previous tenants. The knowledge they contain widens his world and he studies them constantly, caring for them like children. He learns English and works his way through the `T's' in his Encyclopedia (the last volume he has) but the cold façade of his mother does not melt at all. 
He has a quasi-ambition to strike out on his own but he is really trying to escape his mother. When he's summoned to a law office regarding his impending bankruptcy the place captures his imagination and he gains a job there through a forward maneuver amongst a management crisis. Once stable at the firm he remains determined to succeed and continues his law studies, taking time to shyly eye a beautiful French clerk named Lorna (Tamar van den Dop), but he's absorbed in the cat-and-mouse game he and his father play, keeping him in the forefront of his mind. When on the verge of another bankruptcy, the ruthless Dreverhaven comes again asking  for Joba's hand and she tells him she will never marry him. She asks him to leave the boy alone, but he responds "...I'll strangle him for nine tenths and the last tenth will make him strong." 
Against this backdrop of fear and stern affection, the characters make their life decisions. In one intense sequence Jacob goes to his father and presents him with the information that he is now a lawyer. He is empty inside because he has worked for so long and is still restless, and Dreverhaven knew he would be when he pushed him that hard. He extends a hand to the boy and incredulously he responds: 
"I cannot take the hand of someone who has worked against me my entire life." 
"Or worked for you..." 
When Dreverhaven is found dead after this confrontation Jacob is taken into custody and questioned at length. Most of the story is told here, from the jail, in a wonderfully somber and methodical way. Character is a remarkable film that reminds me why I still find worth in sitting in a darkened theater with strangers for two hours. A must see.