Extremely stylish James Bond film, which ushered in the "just for fun era" that didn't end (but was interrupted by For Your Eyes only) until Roger Moore's retirement in 1985. However, this one has several qualities  which most of those others don't. First, Sean Connery's back and gives his  most complete acting performance in a Bond film. I personally enjoy him  more in this film than in any of his other Bonds. It was, for my money, his  most relaxed and confident performance. And his less than perfect  appearance, though shocking to some, made his portrayal of the world-weary  Bond all the more appropriate. Second, the dialogue here is masterful and,  for once, truly funny in an ultra-sophisticated sort of way; the witicisms  are incredible clever, maybe more so than in any Bond before or since. You  have to watch this one over and over just to catch all the ingenious  banter. I also really enjoyed all the supporting characters performances as  well. While he might have been a little more threatening, Charles Gray's  Blofeld is the most memorable of the bunch, and I'd like to think that  someone who plots world domination must be somewhat sophisticated and  intelligent, rather than just a raving megalamaniac (Pleasance) or a  mobster-like neanderthal (Savalas). Next, the producers opted for an older  Bond Girl, ala Pussy Galore in Goldfinger, in casting Jill St. John as  Tiffany Case and it works well. It would have been hard to stomach a  twentish, innocent-looking hardbody in the role of this jaded,  international smuggler. Also, in spite of being older and heavier than most  Bond girls, Miss St. John comes across as one of the sexiest Bond girls  ever and seems to perfectly compliment the aging Connery. The funny but  deadly homosexual assassins Wynt and Kidd were perfectly cast, too. Now  those are different Bond henchman! But again, there are many things  different about this one. As I alluded to in my opening sentence, there's  something inately stylish about this film as it possesses a surrealism that  seems to be lacking in many of the later Bond films. The characters and  sequences have a certain fanciful quality to them. Even the  clothing/costumes worn by the characters stand out. The outfits of Tiffany  Case and Blofeld especially. And strangely enough, they don't seem as dated  as those worn in the two Roger Roger films that followed. Connery, too  looks more at home in his suits and and tux than in any of his other Bonds.  The moody music is great too. The opening title theme seems to get  everything off to a "glittering" start. I liked the music  accompanying the fight scenes and action sequences and for that reason was  a little disappointed that John Barry opted to use the "James Bond  Theme" for the climactic oil rig sequence instead of expounding on the  film's score. I keep thinking of the moon buggy chase scene where Connery's  knocks the guy off the ATV and the music kicks in as he drives away with  Jill St. John observing from the outside, now that was excitng! Why  couldn't Barry have come up with something similar for the finale? At other  times, the music was appropriately eerie (the early South African scenes)  and elegant (the scene at Tiffany's flat and the casino scene). While the  plot once again deals with science fiction and the villain threatening the  entire world, this time there's a couple of kickers, which I won't go into  for fear of spoiling it for those who haven't yet seen this one. Suffice to  say though that it's nice to know for once how the villain came upon the  capital and means to execute his plan. In conclusion, I think anyone would  find this Bond movie one the the most enjoyable of the series if they put  it in the right mindset. It made a steady climb into my top five because  the more I watched it, the more things I picked up on that made me like it  even more. It's just fantastic fun, and last time I checked, there's  nothing wrong with that.