I hate musicals. If a movie doesn't have anything to do with explosions, hi-jackings, car chases, guys fighting, extortion, nazis, armageddon, aliens, sports, then it is, IMHO, worthless. But there are a handful of exceptions. The Music Man is one of them. Who doesn't like GREASE, or WEST SIDE STORY? Like these other ROMEO &amp; JULIET knock-offs, The Music Man captures the most ubiquitous theme the filmworld has to offer, and does so with a passion rarely realized. Think of Harold Hill as Romeo, and Marian as Juliet. The thought of them co-mingling disgusts everyone from the mayor, to the anvil salesman. That is, ALMOST everyone. A few River City denizens root for the union. Even encouraging it in their own subtle ways. In this great telling, they don't even die!There is so much to say. The dance routine in the library is stunning. People jumping over tables, twisting and turning in staggering unison. Even a line dance! Infact, nearly every scene is dance. These gifted players can't walk down a dirt street without dancing. Even when their not dancing, their dancing! So, chalk one up for the choreographers as well as the players.Meredith Wilson's score (he also penned), is as cool today as it must've been in 1960. Top tunes include "Trouble", "76 Trombones", "Madame Librian", "Gary Indiana", and "til There Was You". Another customer commenter brlliantly noted that "til There Was You", was actually recorded by the Beatles on one of their early albums. How cool is that! The songs and music are simply awesome.Tiled with talented character actors, this fascinating and highly entertaining film is an absolute must see for anyone who loves musicals, and especially for those, like myself, who can barely tolerate them. One of the best of the best.But back to Romeo and Juliet. Shirley Jones, as Juliet, seems to approach her role as a seasoned pro giving it her usual all. Robert Preston, as Romeo, seems to realize this is the role of alifetime. He'd won a Tony for his stage rendition of Professor Harold Hill, and sinks his teeth into the film adaptation with a superb alacrity. It is often said he became hopelessly typecast because of his sunny performance, but after looking him up in film books, that appears to be part of the MUSIC MAN mythology. He was never without work. Hermione Gingold appears as the Mayor's wife and is best remembered for her portrayal as a wicked witch in the Wizard of Oz. Paul Ford is at his bumblng best as the tongue-tied mayor. A young Ronnie Howard displays his gifts as the kid who wants to believe in Hill, but can't decide if he should. Many others round out the powerhouse cast, and all contribute to this triumphant tale of the turn of the century heartland. "Just think....".