I wrote originally wrote this as a comment on one of the negative reviews, but thought it might be beneficial to expand it and post as a review in its own right:

I can understand why this movie might appear pretentious....  I'm not saying it's especially esoteric, but because the method of expression contrasts with traditional film-making it can appear pretentious until you get the feel for it.  This isn't something that requires special technical knowledge, it just has to be developed intuitively---once you get it, it's like "ah-hah!" and it suddenly seems very down-to-earth and human.

This film doesn't follow traditional narrative structure, it is more a series of vignettes or impressions that relate to Fellini's improvisational and personal style.  I can still understand why someone might not relate to Fellini himself, but that doesn't render his art worthless.  It is a highly personal, accurate, and outstanding expression of his self, and that is why it is great--- not because of the hype that has been forever associated with Fellini's films and larger-than-life persona.

This film represents a good place to start if one wished to begin understanding other works of art that make use of subjective or surrealist methods in their presentation.  I think some David Lynch films use a very similar technique, though applied to specific characters which are not strictly auto-biographical.

8 1/2, does a very good job of blending subjectivity and "objectivity" throughout.  It is an interesting portrait of a person's psyche---his psyche shapes his reality, and vice versa.  In this light, every person's reality is truly their own, though I can't know if Fellini really intended to make any larger implications such as these.  Fellini knows himself best, his own bank of experiences and perceptions form the basis of the content.  All great art is highly personal like this, whether it admits to it or not.

It is important to stress that this is not a film that makes use of dynamic narrative tensions.  It has basically one situation:  the main character.  It explores that one situation as fully as possible--- all of the things that make him who he is and in turn shape the way he perceives and approaches his circumstance.  The film is highly unique in the skill with which it does so, and the loose, almost improvisational nature of this film-making is suited to presenting its subject.

Relying on circumstance to intervene in the creative process allows aspects to manifest that could not have if he were trying to write a film of this nature.  Subconscious and unintentional aspects could reveal themselves, giving the film a psychological weight that contributes to the feeling of personal depth.  These aspects may not be picked up consciously by the viewer except on repeated viewings...this is what I mean when I say you have to develop an intuitive feel for the way these kinds of films work.

Until you develop that feel and understanding, more emotional than intellectual, these and other films (like those of the aforementioned David Lynch) will just appear pretentious.  I do not deny that there are a lot of folks who act like they understand these kinds of movies more than they do, contributing to the pretentious vibe.

There can still be differences of opinion in terms of interpretation, but the essence of the film is not intellectual---varying interpretations can simultaneously be accurate given the layers of ambiguity and complexity that great minds (and subsequently great works) possess.  People and works with one simplistic message are not nearly as compelling.