George A. Romero's Dawn of the Dead is an unlikely masterpiece.  It had a very modest budget and only a couple months to complete.  Since they filmed in a real mall, they could only shoot late at night; making it tough for all personnel.  If that isn't bad enough, there wasn't enough money for any big name actors or actresses.  With so many odds against it, somehow the film found a path to success.  Word-of-mouth clearly had a lot of impact, because the film finally quenched horror fans thirst for gore. The prior success of Night of the Living Dead also had an affect on the success of Dawn of the Dead.  The film works well in many genres and it has a great script.  Dawn of the Dead is a spellbinding masterpiece that visually shows the labor of love and all the blood, sweat and tears that went into the film..

Multiple genres used in the film creates a broader fan base.  Dawn of the Dead uses horror and fantasy as a foundation.  Essentially, zombies are very eerie.  Unlike vampires, zombies have a very authentic notion to them.  The fact that they contain no ridiculous characteristics, fabricates a rational fear.  In essence, George A. Romero invented the "flesh eating" zombie (inspired by I Am Legend), which is a scarier idea than the typical mind controlled-voodoo zombies in earlier films.  Dawn of the Dead is brilliant because it uses themes of science and religious conviction as devices of horror.  It's never confirmed whether if it's a virus like in Resident Evil, or if it's the end times suggested by a character in the film named Peter, who said "When there's no more room in Hell, the dead will walk the earth."  Behind the dreadfulness, a luxurious fantasy is at hand.  Once you let go of the idea that zombies look like people, the film fabricates a fun proposal; survive by any means necessary.  It provides a fantasy that people can actually use guns to survive, as opposed to plainly murder in cold blood.  In the film, a bunch of rednecks and military soldiers use the scenario as a zombie hunting game, but the main characters find a fantasy of their own.  Imagine going to the mall and getting everything for free. Is it worth risking your life fighting through the hordes of zombies?

The film has a really smart script. All the characters are relatable and dynamic. Stephen is a soldier.  He has a quick wit, bubbly personality, and gets along with everybody.  At the beginning of the film he's very rational, but when he gets too comfortable with the situation, that's when he takes a dynamic change for the worst.  His foolish actions got him bitten; eventually he died.  Peter is an African American soldier.  He is even-tempered, reserved, and looked upon as knowing the answers.  He is probably the least dynamic character; however, his friendship with Roger is dynamic.  Francine is the only female among this particular group of survivors.  At the beginning of the film, she's very overlooked; by the end of the film, her importance was vital.  Roger is the most dynamic character, and the most important character.  He's Francine's boyfriend, and Stephen's best friend.  He's also the only one who knows how to navigate a helicopter.  Eventually, he teaches Francine.  As far as him being dynamic; he was perceived as the weakest character.  His change was so gradual, that as an viewer, we realized it after he turned into a zombie.  Unlike George A. Romero's other films in the Dead series, this one had an emotional attachment to the characters.  It's also attention-grabbing that an African American was portrayed as the lead character.  Besides the script containing interesting character, it also contains an interesting plot delivery system.  The characters didn't really have any plans, apart from surviving.  Instead of characters following a certain predictable plot, the plot followed the characters.  That's very effective when it comes to keeping the viewers' interest.

It's safe to say that Dawn of the Dead is George A. Romero's magnum opus. It's like Apocalypse Now, but in a urban setting and with zombies.  I'm a critic about everything, and there's nothing I say to criticize this film.  With a modest budget, and limited resources, this is the best film is could possibly be.  As far as the zombie genre is concerned, only a few films have inhaled the tour de force "aroma" of Dawn of the Dead.  Films such as 28 Days Later, Planet Terror and the Dawn of the Dead remake.  But George A. Romero's Dawn of the Dead, made in 1978, still sets high standards for films in any genre.