I'm glad that the state of the art has improved so much so that all the Marvel Animated movies are viable.  Having viewed the latest (fourth) in the series, "Doctor Strange" I can say it is the best looking of the bunch so far.  The script and story are nicely done too - a straight but completely modernized version of the origin of Doctor Strange.

The movie is quite short, so there is not much sense in giving away any of the details.  The modernizations are completely true to the characters and there are numerous small things and tiny details that long time fans will see and hear and will appreciate but don't distract the uninitiated.

With 40 plus years of character development available, it's refreshing to see this kind of update which is really a simplification and optimization of Stan Lee and Steve Ditko's original work.  The writer did a great job distilling so much into this package and made the origin tale interesting instead of just a setup for the main story.  It's a shame Steve Ditko was not credited on-screen as he is in the Spider-Man features.  He deserved a lot of credit for Doctor Strange - his images and art that were the signature of the comic book influenced so much of how we now expect the world of magic to appear in movies and tv today.  Only a few panels were devoted to the origin story in the comics, but the slight to Ditko is unforgivable.  He is mentioned in the special features by Stan Lee and several other comic book writers -- they know.  Of course they know.

This is my very first Blu-Ray disc and the images and sound produced here are truly incredible.  The movie is in 1080p/24fps and this appears to take a lot of processing power to display.  My Sony BDP-S300 displayed a "loading" screen for a few minutes and then another loading screen with animated gears for a few minutes before the top menu even appeared.  The disc has HD 7.1 sound - so if you have the sound system and a 1080p capable set, this is about as good a demo disc as there is.

This disc is a definite buy for your collection.  Very interesting.  With all this technology and all these great characters many more great movies can be made.  But please get the script thoroughly polished and make good stories for these marvel features.  The opportunity to create something truly lasting completely depends on the script and story.  This disc is perhaps not in that category, but I can clearly see the potential for greatness that exists in these properties if enough care an attention is put into them.

And please credit the original creators.  Whatever royalty you might have to pay them is worth it.  Legalities aside they must be given credit where due and it is richly due to them here.