To anyone wondering whether "Kill Bill Vol. 2" has lived up to the phenomenon Volume 1 created for itself upon its release a year ago, the answer is a definite yes. Not only has it lived up to the expectations from critics and audiences alike, but it has managed to be even better than the first, combining style and substance for a different, but ultimately just as satisfying, cinematic experience. 
In some aspects, Volume 2 is more a character study, as we begin to learn the unexpected personalities, histories, and different sides of characters that Volume 1 didn't have time to delve into. Backgrounds of major scenes like the Massacre at Two Pines are established, relationships between characters become more detailed, and the suspense begins to build as we as an audience are ultimately dying to know how the saga will come to a close.
One of the many things that makes "Kill Bill Vol.2" great are the performances. As The Bride (you learn her name in this film), Uma Thurman gives a performance worthy of an Oscar, or at least a nomination. The best way I can think of to describe it is realistic, as she experiences a wide range of emotion in her role; pain, terror, anger, sadness, determination, joy, and in each she manages to convey it in a believable and honest way that is truly astounding to watch. David Carradine, as Bill, finally gets the screen time to showcase his talents, all delivered in an terrifying but somehow comforting quiet manner.
In another amazing performance, Michael Madsen (Budd) has the ability to convey emotion with a single look in his eye or on his weathered face. Regret, sadness, but an undeniable, sadistic greed are played subtley and realistically here, and in my opinion, he also deserves a nomination for a supporting role. Daryl Hannah as Elle Driver is another performance not to be missed. She is truly, maniacally evil here, and seems to relish every moment of it. Also, Chia Hui Liu, as Pai Mei, the Bride's instructor, gives a small but delightful performance, providing a large portion of the humor in the film.  
Although "Kill Bill Vol.2" is more driven by its dialogue than its gory fight scenes, it has its share of amazing matchups, the most astounding (as many reviewers have already said) being that of the confrontation between the Bride and Elle Driver in Budd's sundrenched trailer. It is without a question one of the most amazing sequences I have ever witnessed, and one of my personal favorites in the Kill Bill movies.  
The creative direction in this film also deserves much praise. The transitions from black and white to color film adds a new dimension to the picture, and choice of light, intensity of sound, and cinematography, especially in the fight sequences, makes "Kill Bill" a visual delight. Blending the spaghetti westerns as a contrast to the old kung-fu flicks was a genius move as well.  
A fan of Tarantino's previous works or not, you must give credit where credit is due for the "Kill Bill" films. Each piece is essentially a work of art, where style and substance are beautifully combined for an original, humorous, and truly unforgettable experience.