I have a lot of classic Bill Cosby comedy records, and when Bill's Fat Albert cartoon ran on Saturday mornings in the early '70s, I was a big fan.  The show, featuring Fat Albert, Russell, Weird Harold, Rudy, Mushmouth, Dumb Donald, and the other characters from Bill's comedy routines, was fun, and at the same time, Bill used the episodes to teach important things about life--for instance, how to deal with family problems.  I wasn't sure how I'd like the movie adaptation of the classic series, but after checking out the DVD of Fat Albert, I think the movie is great.  The movie, with Kenan Thompson in the title role and Bill playing himself, doesn't have the same serious "edge" as the series, but it's very entertaining and uplifting.

The movie opens with Doris, the protagonist(played by Kyla Pratt), crying because she is lonely.  While Doris is watching her favorite program, a rerun of the Fat Albert TV show, one of her tears falls onto the TV remote control, causing Fat Albert and his buddies to come out of the TV screen and into her living room.  The sequence where Fat Albert literally has to squeeze through Doris' TV screen is one of the funniest in the movie.  When Albert, whom I remember as the problem-solver in Bill Cosby's original program, says he is there to help, Doris denies that she has a problem.  However, Albert and his buddies tag along with Doris and make it their mission to help her make some friends.  The problem Albert and his friends run up against is that they have to make Doris happy and then get back into their cartoon universe the next time their TV program comes around, or they will turn into dust.  Also, Doris, a member of her school's track team, needs a date for the big dance at the same time she is getting ready for a track meet.  The gang follows Doris to her usual hangouts--her school, the mall, the school's outdoor track, the fair--and they have a lot of comic adventures as their bodies are fading.  Albert has become attracted to Doris' sister Laurie(Dania Ramirez), and he becomes the latter's date for the big dance, which Doris also attends.  The dance scene, with its hip-hop version of the Fat Albert theme song, is fun and well-done.  One of the gang's first attempts to get back home is thwarted the day after they've all been to the big dance.  After the gang comes home from the park, their cartoon is interrupted by a special news broadcast, leaving Albert, Rudy, Mushmouth, and the young Bill Cosby stranded in the real world.  To go on, Donald starts reading; Mushmouth, who always speaks in unintelligible babbles, is able to speak clearly; normally clumsy Harold becomes a basketball star; and the porky Albert beats Reggie, Doris' jealous classmate, in a race.  At the same time, back in the cartoon universe, the young Bill Cosby's brother Russell is trying to fend off the junkyard bullies by himself.

Though I don't want to give away the plot completely, in the real world, Fat Albert and the gang learn the source of Doris' discontent.  Besides preparing for a track meet and having trouble making friends, Doris is grieving over her grandfather's death.  Albert, having been a cartoon character and a "Mr. Fix-It" type, is confused about what to do--and this is where Bill Cosby, his creator, comes in.  In addition to warning Albert that he(Albert) is a cartoon that will turn into dust, Bill Cosby tells Albert something about how his(Albert's) character was created--more information than we get in the movie's extras.  Bill tells Fat Albert about Doris' grandfather, Albert Robertson, and we learn that Albert Robertson was the inspiration for the Fat Albert character.  The ending is predictable but funny.  After Fat Albert and his buddies have been to the fair, and after Albert himself bids Laurie an emotional goodbye, the gang races back to Doris' apartment just as their program is coming to a close.  By this time their colors have almost completely faded out.  With the exception of Albert, they jump back into the TV screen.  As his buddies shout at him from Doris' TV screen, Fat Albert tells them that he is staying longer because, in his words, "It's time for Doris to believe in herself again."  Of course, Doris and her relay team win their event at the track meet, with Albert cheering them on.  Thanks to some nifty skateboard action, Albert and Doris escape some of Doris' wisecracking fellow students, including Reggie, and Albert gets back to Doris' apartment and into her TV set while his show is still on.  After going back into his cartoon universe, Albert shows up at the junkyard and helps his buddies defeat the bad guys.  The ending features Bill himself, along with the cast in costume, at Albert Robertson's grave.

Though I like Fat Albert's story line and its humor, there are some problems with the film.  For instance, we don't know one of the key reasons for Doris' unhappiness and her trouble making friends, her grandfather's death, until later on in the movie.  In the TV show which inspired the movie, Bill Cosby always tried to let us know clearly at the beginning of the show what the episode was about.  To their credit, Kenan, the star, and Joel Zwick, the director, wanted to bring the series' comic appeal to the big screen, and they do a convincing job of it.  Besides the funny elements I've already mentioned, Fat Albert's culture gap provides another humorous subplot--Albert and his buddies, stuck in the '70s, don't know anything about compact discs, home computers, cell phones, DVDs, or our other modern tech wonders, and Albert is surprised to see himself on a poster advertising a collection of classic Fat Albert episodes on DVD.  Also, though the movie's scenery was well-done, I think Joel made it look too cartoonish.  The scenery was inspired by the Fat Albert TV show, but in my opinion, it's a caricature of how Doris, the working-class heroine, would actually live and how Bill himself lived.  It sounds too neat and tidy for me.  Ironically, Russell's cartoon environment, with the junkyard full of old cars and auto parts, is more convincing and realistic.  Finally, the DVD doesn't have a lot of bonus material other than a running comentary by Joel and producer John Davis and a "Behind The Band" video showing how Fat Albert and the Junkyard Band came to be.  I would have liked to see Bill Cosby himself talk about how the Fat Albert character was created.  Still, I think Fat Albert, the movie, is a great update of Bill Cosby's classic cartoon.  It's funny, and it also tells an uplifting story about making friends, having a good time, and believing in yourself.