Ride With the Devil may not have found its audience in theaters, but it's a great movie, and it was meant to be seen on DVD format!
The DVD version of this epic piece of filmmaking by Taiwan-born director Ang Lee focuses on a little-known aspect of the Civil War: the bloody and relentless border skirmishes along the Kansas and Missouri border that began in the 1850s and continued into the 1870s for almost a decade before and a decade after the five-year Civil War ended in 1865.
The fighting in these border skirmishes was more like a continuous everyday version of the the modern conflicts in Ireland and the Middle East and even in some US streets ruled by urban gangs.
The armies of the Blue and the Gray were not yet engaged on the battlefields of the south and the east when these young Missouri men took up their hunting rifles and turned them on the occupying Union army. The resulting warfare created such lingering hatreds that author Daniell Woodrell, (who wrote the book on which the movie is based), said martial law was declared in three counties years after the war.
The movie's main characters are unusual choices to depict this  bloody, hatred-fueled "battle to the knife, and knife to the hilt" conflict: They are teenaged boys, southern-sympathizing "Bushwhackers." They took turns with pro-Union, Kansas-based "Jayhawkers" to stage retaliatory raids.
Such a conflict was no place for middle ground, and yet that is just where lead character Tobey Maguire finds himself, as the son of a German immigrant. Such immigrants were distrusted because many of them favored an almost fascist-strong central government.
Maguire's character, Jake "Dutchy" Roedel, is barely tolerated because he is the best friend ("near-brother") of loyal good old boy and former rich old boy, Jack Bull Chiles (Skeet Ulrich). The two grew up together, so when Jack Bull's father is killed by Jayhawkers, Jake ignores his own father and joins with Jack Bull.
to battle them.
Jake's father's words warning him that he would never be accepted among the Bushwhackers often comes to haunt him as he is singled out for suspicion, especially by a viscious fellow Bushwhacker, Pitt Mackeson, chillingly portrayed by Irish actor Jonathan Rhys Meyers. His gorgeous smile appears in this movie only when Pitt Mackeson is shooting someone.
In the movie's best performance, Jeffrey Wright portrays another outsider in the Bushwhacker camp: a freed slave who remains loyal to fight alongside the man who freed him. As the war goes on, this quiet fighter begins to realize that even loyalty has its limits in the face of overwhelming wrongdoing.
In the DVD version of the story, you get to see more wide-shots of the Bushwhackers in camp and feel the boredom and lonliness that must have been part of camp life. In one scene, the men are transfixed by the reading of a Wisconsin mother's captured letter to her sons.
The spectacular chase scenes, with their unusual perspectives and sense of urgency, are heart-thumping action.
These scenes record to perfection and with great timing the skilled horseback riding and fancy gunplay in which Bushwhackers exchange weaponry on the run.
Viewers may gain an appreciation for how the landscape of the early 1860s so vastly differed from anything we recognize today, and how it was possible for hundreds of armed soldiers on horses to travel 45 miles across enemy territory to execute one of the most brutal terrorist acts of the 19th century: The slaughter by Bushwhackers of 150 old men and young boys on an August morning in Lawrence, Kansas.
The movie has its flaws.
It is almost 3 hours long, and it lags toward the middle.
Although Skeet Ulrich is billed as the movie's star, both he and first-time actress Jewel Kelcher turn in mannered performances.
Still, if you enjoy Jewel's singing, you will love the video extra of her singing her song, "Simple is True," based on a brief love affair.
It's a bit syrupy, but the visuals are nice. Don't read the forced and unmetered lyrics, as they make little sense.
The worst thing about this DVD is the total lack of any other bonus material of any note.
No live interviews on the set. No comments or insights about filming from the director.
Another cheat: The cast list does list all the major players, so if you click on a name, some written "filmography" material pops up. BUT that only happens for a few!
Some production notes provide interesting insights into how the raid on Lawrence and other scenes were staged, and some of the filming difficulties, but again...no real interviews.
Still, if you want to see some rousing story-telling about a pivotal time in American history, this DVD is well worth it.