... and also the last concert of Nightwish together with Tarja Turunen, an event not to be missed!
I personally think that both Nightwish and Tarja have lost something from their separation : Nightwish have lost a fabulous voice, Anette (the new singer) is a good singer, but she has a different voice, more 'light' while Tarja with her operatic voice gave a sense of epic in songs like 'Sleeping Sun' or 'Wishmaster'.
On the other hand Tarja does not have the same compositional genius than Tuomas Holopainen has and I like her songs less than Tuomas' ones.
But let's talk about the concert: 'Dark Chest of Wonders' is a powerful start with keyboards phrasing on a drum-bass-guitar base worthy of the best metal bands, the voice of Tarja completes the epic atmosphere: wonderful !
Follows an equally good 'Planet Hell', then the climate changes and move to the sweet notes of the start-up of 'Ever Dream' with the voice of Tarja in evidence, but only for a while: soon it turns into a  fast and powerful song as the previous ones. The following song 'The Kinslayer' is at the same level as the previous but it's in 'The Phantom of the Opera' that Tarja's voice reaches levels unimaginable for many other singers (including Anette): listen to the  end of the song to understand the enormous vocal extension of the singer.
The show continues with the excellent 'The Siren', then Tuomas advises the audience to be silent ... you turn on the magic of a 'Sleeping Sun' with the voice of Tarja that creates a unique atmosphere. I've also heard the same song sung by Anette and it is not even comparable ... I do not understand why Nightwish insist in performing live old songs that sound completely different without the magical voice of Tarja.
I do not like the next 'High Hopes' : slow and repetitive ... I would not have included it in the show ... but the magical atmosphere is resumed shortly after with 'Bless the Child' followed by a wonderful 'Wishmaster' where Tarja's voice reaches unimaginable heights (listen to the acutes 'Lorien' and 'Starbreeze' of the song ... in the version sung by Anette she is forced to drop her voice to the lower octave ...). Than follows 'Slaying the Dreamer', a song rather 'hard' but nonetheless appreciated and then the wonderful 'Kuolema Tekee Taiteilijan', sung in Finnish, with only Tarja on stage in sweet interpretation. The next songs 'Nemo' and 'Ghost Love Score' with its complex beats are wonderful.
Then the context changes completely : enters the stage the Indian John Two Hawks for a 'Stone People' played only with voice and flute which leaves me a bit confused ... even if it creates a special atmosphere, it seems a bit boring when compared to the rest of the concert.
The next 'Creek Mary's Blood' is much more beautiful : the flute and the voice of John blend with the music of the group and give a great overall effect. The concert ends with 'Over the Hills and far Away' and 'Wish I Had an Angel, a little more catchy songs but pleasant listening.
In conclusion ... buy absolutely this DVD or Blue-Ray : you will not regret!