When their mom gets divorced, brothers Sam (Corey Haim) and Michael (Jason Patric looking impossibly young and pretty) move with her from Phoenix AZ to their grandpa's semi-rural property outside the funky California beach town of Santa Clara.  Sam is about 14 and already suffering withdrawal-from-television.  He's not pleased when Mom drives them past a billboard welcoming people to town and he happens to see spray-painted on its backside:  "Murder Capital of the World."  Plus, there seems to be a million flyers up all over town for missing people.

Grandpa is a twinkly, eccentric taxidermist.  Mom is sweet-natured but understandably preoccupied with how she's going to get a job.  Sam and Michael who is about 18 are free to roam town.  What a town!  A never-ending amusement park, a boardwalk along the beach stuffed with colorful characters, bonfires on the beach.  Free concerts!  People of every ethnicity and size and shape!  All this is believable and great to look at:  it makes you wonder why Sam misses Phoenix.  Michael, in particular, is enchanted to spot a gorgeous hippie girl named Star (Jamie Gertz) at an outdoor concert.

But Star (and a mysterious little boy whom she carries around like a pet) are in the orbit of a group of flashy teenage trouble-makers on motorbikes led by David (Kiefer Sutherland also looking impossibly young and pretty).  These lost boys, led by David, latch on to Michael in a competitive-threatening-possessive way.  Soon he's getting reeled into their dangerous company.

Sam starts to wonder if something more metaphysical is going on.  Could these lost boys be ... vampires?  Is his brother in danger?  He's a comic-book fanatic and soon he runs across the Frog brothers, also about 14,  who help their folks run a comic-book store.  The Frog brothers are paramilitary in a hilariously over-the-top way, and self-proclaimed vampire experts.  Soon they are helping Sam to prepare for the epic fight of his life.

This is a movie to be watched over and over again:  for its exciting sequences, fast-moving plot, and especially its laugh-out-loud funny moments.  It's a cult classic for good reason.