My comments are concerning the film rather than the new DVD. As a child, Cinderella was my favourite fairytale, and therefore my favourite Disney movie. Nothing could compare with the magical moment when Cinderella's beautiful ballgown appears and she's off to the ball to meet her Prince Charming. Now my own daughter has fallen under the film's spell. As such, it must be said that it does the job Disney intended it to do - it enchants little girls and makes them believe in dreams.

I eagerly awaited seeing the film again with my daughter, after so many years, and I was struck by either how cynical I had become in the interim or how badly I was let down by my memories. To sum up, this is not one of Disney's finest hours.

The title character is supposed to be pure and good hearted, patiently waiting for her dreams to come true. Why then does she seem to be 'on the make'? She's a flirtatious vamp. She is only interested in herself and no-one else. The Prince appears incidental to her vision of herself as a perfect self-sacrificing angel.  This is typified in the awful 'torch' song, So This Is Love - which doesn't represent the ecstasy of first love at all but rather the self-satisfaction of a woman who has 'found' her mark. It is sung, like all Cinderella's other songs, in a 50s, Doris Day crooning style which completely detracts from the pure innocence Cinderella is supposed to represent. In contrast, the squeaky voice of Snow White and her obsession with cleanliness was at least believable and made you feel for her.

Not that Cinderella has much to congratulate herself over as the Prince, what little we see of him, is even more cardboard and stereotyped than his hapless counterpart in Snow White. Far more interesting are the characters of the bumbling King and Grand Duke, who should have been fleshed out more. Instead, this is a Disney movie, so we have interminable scenes of an 'evil' cat and 'good' mice (and the least said about the song sung by the mice, Cinderelly, the better).

The stepmother's character works well and in fact is more believable than Cinderella herself. The stepsisters are meant to be annoying but their antics take up far too much time. The fairy godmother has been turned into a scatterbrained old woman, whose song, the Oscar-winning Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo, must take the prize for the least 'magical' or 'fairylike' song of all time.  The transformation scene happens so quickly that you just feel 'is that it'? And if it's true, as others have said, that the beautiful sparkling silver dress is now blue, than Disney should be ashamed of itself and its marketing department.

It works for children and so it should, but sometimes children have to grow up. The magic I remember has long gone.