What people seem to mistake about this movie is that it is going to be a goofball comedy. In many ways it is, but you also have to realize that there is an element of dark comedy here also. Steve Carell's character does a good job of screwing up Paul Rudd's character's life here, and you almost get irritated at times by how far it goes. That is why this is a dark comedy. Some people like it, some don't. A good movie to compare this to would be The Cable Guy. If you're like me and became pretty annoyed with Jim Carrey's character in that movie, then the people behind it accomplished what they set out to do.

My only complaint is that there are far too many dark comedies coming out nowadays, as if Hollywood thinks that's what the public wants or something (i.e. Easy A, Funny People, and, from what I've heard, The Dilema). Granted I thought this was one of the better movies of its kind to come out, as Steve Carell's character is very likable despite the actions he takes. There is one point during the movie, right in the middle of the obligatory fight between the leads, that Steve Carell's character almost gets to the point that he destroys what defines him as a character, but luckily he pulls back before he can do so. I think that in real life we probably would have seen him go that far considering what he was going through at the time, but at the same time audiences view comedies to laugh, not to be depressed.

So yes, the darker comedy here makes this a little more realistic, and will probably evoke an emotional response from you now and then, but this is still a very funny movie. Mostly because of Steve Carell's character, surprisingly. I saw this for Paul Rudd, and he was almost way too serious here. Still, these two worked well together. They did so in Anchorman and in The 40-Year Old Virgin, and the same is true here. While this movie doesn't quite measure up to those two, I still think it is one of the better comedies to come out in 2010. My only big complaint about this movie is Zach Galifianakis, who I don't find that funny at all. He plays a much more annoying character than Steve Carell does, which is appropriate since he's the villain, but I think this actor will be seen in a different light after having viewed this movie. It's an unusual role for him, I'll leave it at that.

In conclusion, I recommend everyone thinking about seeing this movie should see it. I've never seen the original, but I tend to enjoy comedies a lot. Yes, it's on the darker side, but the movie never completely falls apart. It may tread on the edge a bit, but there is a happy ending for almost everyone to be had here.