The much anticipated first acting role for rapper Eminem, "8 Mile", comes together way better than i thought it would. Seeing the trailer for this movie i thought i would be a complete mess of Eminem's past-life and rappers going at it in competitions. Even with some drama and action, "8 Mile" turns out exactly as i planned it would (except with a whole lot more interesting scenes). To the average Eminem fan, you probably can't take in all these different actions in one movie, you would probably just buy it for your Eminem collection and say, "it's the best movie ever!" or something. But to someone who doesn't even know who he is (is there such a person?) he or she might say "wow, this is an alright movie with a nice plot and good storytelling values" (i would've said what the Eminem fan said). When i went to see the movie in theaters i thought (myself being a huge Eminem fan) that i would just think it was the greatest ever instantly, but no, i didn't.
The storyline of the movie is a little unclear at first. A gang of underground rappers get together weekly at the 'shelter' to do rap battles. The movie opens with Jimmy 'B Rabbit' Smith (Eminem) going out to battle. He loses do to stagefright and goes home (which he now has to live with his mother {Kim Basinger} because his girlfriend dumped him). I'm not going to go through the whole movie like this because that would be giving away WAY too much info, but, i will tell you some highlights. One or two scenes seem very interesting, B Rabbit tends to start rapping over anything that he can find. One scene, Rabbit and a fellow rapper that i think was named 'future' start a rap duet over "Sweet Home Alabama" (the song, not the movie). Some more personal scenes include Rabbit and his little sister, Lillie, Rabbit and his new girlfriend (Brittany Murphy) and Rabbit with his friend who i think is named Cheddar. The best rap scenes come about in the 'shelter', at Rabbit's work, and the previously mentioned rap duet with 'future'. Fighting and action scenes really come in handy in this film, Rabbit fights with his mother's boyfriend (i don't think their married), one of his friends for sleeping with his new girlfriend, and he gets his butt kicked by some thugs later on in the movie, too. If you want to know anymore about the movie itself, buy it.
All in all, "8 Mile" is an excellent debut for Eminem in the movie industry. Considering this DVD edition has already racked up over $72 million dollars in just the first weeks rental and sales, it seems alot of people agree with me. The DVD includes director's commentary, exclusive rap battles, and the MTV banned video for "Superman". Also buy the soundtrack to this movie, it is an unstoppable record.