Bad. Real bad. Some might say "Horrible". I laughed, well maybe just cracked a smile, around twice. I couldn't tell you what those scenes were though as I am trying to block this film from memory. DO NOT believe ANYONE saying this is a five star movie. It is not. Some SPOILERS in this review. But you can't really spoil this film.

So where to begin??? OK the 'star' studded cast perhaps. I will start with this. Just because someone is a 'Star' doesn't mean they will make a movie funny. So back to the cast. The main focus is on the characters of Jason Bateman, Jason Sudeikis and Charlie Day. All three characters are selfish and shallow, but one is also greatly annoying. They decide because their bosses are so 'horrible' they are going to kill them. Seems logical. But of course they run into some hysterical hyjinxs. Oh wait, no they don't. They just wander around like a couple of fools, while spewing some softball, but completely unfunny racial jokes, that involve another 'star'. Yes, Jamie Foxx is in this film. Why you ask? I'm guessing they paid him well. As for his role in the film, he plays a phoney 'hitman' that the gang offers to pay to eliminate their bosses for them. He accepts. But here's the funny part, he takes the money and instead of killing them, he offers his comical advise on HOW to kill them. Now get ready to laugh. No wait, not yet. So these three scallywags, do some investigating on their bosses and get into some pretty sticky situations, such as shoving a toothbrush into ones rectum, getting high through some 2nd hand cocaine and having sex with Jennifer Aniston. I know, please refrain from laughing yet though, there are more characters to come!

Another cast member who received a lovely paycheck was Jen Aniston. And yes, after watching this movie I get to call her Jen. She plays one of the 'horrible' bosses. Her character is a sex obsessed dentist who desperately wants to bed one of the annoying gentlemen I mentioned before. How horrible huh. There is nothing more vile I can think of than a fantastic looking woman with a great job wanting to sleep with me! But that's the funny part!!! Oh wait, no it isn't. Next is another big name, Kevin Spacey. He plays Bateman's boss. A mean, spiteful, arrogant man who apparently deserves to die. Well I'll tell you what, if someone didn't give me a promotion, I'd kill them. Oh wait, no I'm wrong again, I would never in a million years do that. And the last boss is a self obsessed coke addict with a rivetingly funny performance by Colin Farrell. I mean you really do have to see it to believe it. Hmmmmm, nope, wrong again, sorry. He just bosses Jason Sudeikis around like he was his boss or something! Can you believe that!

So those three men HAVE to kill their bosses because of just how terrible they are. The thing is.... These three guys go around racially insulting people, breaking and entering, committing adultery and let's not forget murder.
How ironic.

OK so are you all ready for the funny part?????!?!?!? Go watch Hot Tub Time Machine!