I wasn't expecting much when I rented this movie but I sure got a pleasant surprise. Danny DeVito is a true master of the wicked-old-lady-that-must-be-destroyed genre. Unlike the monstrous Momma in Throw Momma From The Train, the elderly tenant in Duplex could almost be likeable, and she is certainly more believable (I'm sure most of us have met and eldster like this at some point in our lives). She seems to spend the whole film sublimely unaware of how annoying she is, and the actress (whoever she is) ought to be congratulated on how convincingly she played the part.

  As the film progresses we come to learn that she is the tenant from hell - and each new horror she foists upon Ben Stiller and Drew Barrymore's Alex and Nancy confirms it all the more. Their desperate attempts to cope with her as she ratchets up the pressure are almost as hilarious as their ham-fisted attempts to do away with her. Obviously, they haven't got a chance because they are just too darn nice, and as a result, the old lady makes mincemeat of them in a series of almost Loony Toon style "get the rabbit" schemes. I half expected to see ACME on the side of some of the items in their arsenal.

  Ben Stiller was at his best playing his typical poor-downtrodden-loser part as he has done in almost every film since "There's Something About Mary." Drew Barrymore was actually likeable as the sweet always-look-on-the-bright-side wife.

  I'm not sure why this film got so many bad reviews. Myself, I was barely able to breath I was laughing so hard. By the end I was doubled over and my face hurt. I know that the film wasn't Shakespere, but it was a million times better than "Along Came Polly" which, for some reason, was given more playtime and seemed to be better accepted by moviegoers. I know there were a lot of scenes that had really vile content (chewed up sausages, rotting noodles, vomit and saturation sneezing) but it was all very tastefully done (in comparison to others I've seen) and for the most part really funny. All I can say is, give this movie a chance - maybe it won't work for you, but you're bound to find something you'll like.