Kevin's second movie definatley holds true to that old sophmore jinx.
  The movie is about two friends (Brodie and T.S) who are dumped by their girlfriends, and retreat to the mall to brood and try to piece themselves together. When they arrive at the mall, there is a stage being set up for T.S's ex-girlfriend's dad's game show, Truth or Date. T.S believes that his ex's father forced her to dump him (being as head strong as he is) and decides to try to sabotage the show...somehow. So, he uses two henchmen...Jay and Silent Bob, who now reside in front of the mall's pet store. Now with them trying to destroy the stage before showtime, T.S and Brodie try to get their ex's back, and after a quick visit to the local topless fortune teller (which turns out to be as funny as it is nasty and repulsive) he gets a great plan for winning her back.
  The only problem is that T.S has to face her father, who had already tried to get them arrested by planting some weed on them. As for Brodie, he has to face his ex's new boy-toy, who's in it only so that he can get some action *in a very uncomfortable place* as he puts it.
  The whole movie has but a few laughs, which involve chocolate covered pretzels, (the already mentioned) topless fortune teller, Jay and Silent Bob, and the Truth or Date gameshow being filemed live.
  I rented this movie with very high spirits, hoping it would be funny, as are all of Smith's movies, but it turned out to be one wash after another. In fact, the only real thing of comedy in this movie were the antics of Jay and Silent Bob which include trying to destroy the stage, getting stoned (at one point, TS gathers a plan, and asks Jay, You guys up for getting stoned, to which Jay replies with a laugh, Look who you're askin,) beating up the Easter Bunny, and a lot, lot more. It was especially nice to have them in the movie THAT much after only being featured in Clerks for a few brief scenes.
  There are tons of hit and miss jokes, among which, the backseat of a volkswagon being the longest. 
  The stupid sound effects during the movie add nothing but a corniness that isn' common for any Smith movie (unless it is meant to be.)
  Actually, the movie was really entertaining, not as funny as Clerks, I must say, but it has that Smoth charm that kept me rewinding that tape. There are just some movies that are supposed to be funny, but actually aren't, but that doesn't take away from their entertaining qualities... look at Bill and Ted, for example.
  The movie works, overall, but is still heavily flawed, and lacks that sophisticated humor that made Clerks what it is today. Many find this movie to be boring, and I can see where they're coming from, and some say it's the best of the Jersey Trilogy, and I can get that too, but as for me, it was a pretty deacent movie. Not as man laughs, but it does entertain to some degree.
  Personally, I reccomend the othe movies first, save this for last. Or, actually, you should watch this movie second (in order, sense Kevin's movies are designed in such a way that if you watch them out of order you won't be able to understand them, because you need the other movies for the basis for many of the othe movie's plots or jokes) after Clerks, with the though that this is his worst, and if you love it, then you're bound to love his others, but if you don't, then at least you know that you've seen the worst, and it's smooth sailing from then on.