(Lot's of spoilers) 
Yes, I know it's a romantic comedy, 'chick flick', and realism is not usually a necessary goal, but please, you must be kidding!  
She enters Italy, buys a house and moves there permanently on a whim?  With minimal savings (after buying a villa with an olive grove!), no income (we don't see her write or review anything in the year she is in Italy), no health coverage, nothing, and no long-stay visa, no governmental red tape?  
Everyone speaks English? And learning to speak Italian just happens to her, despite only speaking with English, American and Polish expatriate friends?  
The house renovation is brief and (aside from 1 or 2 comic moments) easy and apparently... free. She just cooks for her polish workman and they love her.  Let's remember, she has no car and she is in rural Tuscany (wouldn't you love to see her carry home all the groceries for these feasts.)  
See meets a stunning, sexy, fit, self-confidant, young, Italian man... after a few hours together, has sex with him (Don't get me wrong - looked like fun), doesn't see him again for a month, and then is surprised that, when she sees him next, he has already moved on. No, really?  
As for the lesbian couple: They are committed enough to decide to have a baby (no accidents here), so try to concieve repeatedly (making reference that they were finally sucessful concieving on the 5th try) and then when one is apparently 8 months pregnant, the other decides she "isn't ready to be a mother"!  What???  And the very pregnant friend flies to Tuscany, with no invitation or warning!?  She doesn't speak Italian, she doesn't have a doctor in Italy... but we are to assume that her health-coverage covers giving birth in Italy!  WOW! Who's her insurance company?  
Yes, the scenery is beautiful, but it's Tuscany and the Amalfi Coast. Of course, it's beautiful!  And, the ending was sweet and romantic. (Wow, what a suprise.)
I normally enjoy a light escape from reality, but this was just way to pointless and wildly unrealistic to be worth the effort.