...that tells us nothing new about the 25-year-old genre of black metal. Other than the fact that a)Varg Vikernes is not nearly as smart as he thinks he is, and b)Fenriz is, perhaps, smarter than he at first comes off.

  The film largely alternates between interviews of Norway's most infamous nut-job Varg "Count Grishnackh" Vikernes (of the one-man band Burzum)and Darkthrone's drummer and creative force Fenriz. As with "The Lords of Chaos," the nonfiction book about black metal that came out a few years ago, the creators of this film allow Vikernes to hijack their work with hours (in both the movie and the extras)of contradictions and incoherent political views, which are often outrageously nationalistic and racist. He rants ad infinitum about the conquest and conversion of his forefathers by the early Christians, never once acknowledging the violence and destruction visited upon foreign lands by the Vikings. He asks us to believe he murdered Euronymous because he feared for his life after Euronymous allegedly told others that Vikernes needed to die as a result of some feud over royalties and/or political and musical beliefs - this despite the fact that Vikernes insists repeatedly that Euronymous was all talk and no action with respect to church burnings. So Euronymous is a wimp, and nothing but talk when it comes to arson, but a man of action when it comes to actually killing someone? Elsewhere Vikernes brags about kicking and abusing a female Chilean grammar school classmate because she didn't belong in Norway. This convicted murderer decries Capitalism, saying it's practitioners have no respect for life (that's a joke, right? Wrong), then proceeds to criticize his society's "socialism," saying it needed to be destroyed (by burning churches?)before it could be rebuilt.Vikernes is a guy who thinks Capitalism is evil, but forms his own record label so he could make more money from his royalties -some artists do this for creative freedom, but not Vikernes; his only concern, according to him, was money. He insists the church burnings were a form of provocation to wake people up to his political and religious views, then seems genuinely surprised that this extreme and destructive form of "speech" inspired copycat crimes by immature youth (hello? you're a metal musician, who did you think your audience was?)who made it all about Satanism. He complains that youth are given "no direction" in his country, when HIS actions were all about rebellion and bucking social/religious conventions. (Etc, etc. I could go on for untold paragraphs on Vikernes' senseless ramblings.)

  All of this would be fine if a)any of it was news to anyone remotely familiar with black metal. (And for those who are not, the material would probably be mostly unintelligible.) But Vikernes has been spouting this nonsense for decades. And the interviews with Fenriz and just a few other black metal musicians offer nothing more than tired lists of influences and self-congratulatory pats on the back for being so "trve" and "cvlt" b) Vikernes' viewpoints were challenged. Being fair and non-judgmental in a documentary is fine, but why not give another point of view, especially when a little conflict would add some spark to such a boring, one-sided narrative? THAT would be interesting: a knock-down, drag-out between articulate (and Varg IS articulate) passionate debaters who have genuine insight into how Norway's social, religious and musical milieu gave rise to black metal.

  "Until the Light Takes Us" offers no real insight into the deep and musically challenging world of black metal, is not artfully shot or edited, and has no pacing. And there is NO performance footage (other than a few poor-quality home video rehearsal clips) to break up the monotonous interviews.

  Imminently skipable.