"Becket" is a glorious movie and one which provides high interest in England's primeval past. Based upon a play by Jean Anouilh, the prime action centers around the power struggle between King Henry the II (played by Peter O'Toole) and Becket, who becomes The Archbishop of Canterbury (played by Richard Burton).  Set in the 1100s, we get a rare glimpse into that day and age. However, hatred is not at the center which propels this tale - but love.

Henry is base and crass, while Becket is learned and refined. They start off as best friends, roaming the countryside in search of more mayhem and debauchery, but soon fate and ego come in from stage left. To save an innocent girl from Henry's clutches, Becket innocently enters into a deal with the King. Little does he know it will cost him the only thing he loves in his life.

From this point on, the psychological underpinnings weave a treacherous web. Henry loves Becket, and probably knows he is not his equal, thus he begins a tireless campaign to use his royal advantage to make Becket feel the same way he does. But, Becket has a higher purpose and, unfortunately, the damage has been done.

Henry attempts to weaken the power of the Church of England by promoting Becket to Archbishop, thinking that by instilling an ally in that position he will have total control of England. But Becket, reluctant at first, takes the position in great earnest, and becomes a full-fledged man of God.

At this time, the church had the dominant say over many countries, and was a major force to be reckoned with. Henry wanted the right to put on trial religious clerics in civil court, but Becket held firm that it was the church's jurisdiction only. When Henry passes off a light sentence to a member of his court that murdered a clergyman, Becket uses the power of excommunication. This infuriates Henry and he fakes charges in order to prosecute Becket. Seeing the writing on the parchment, Becket flees to France and is given asylum by King Louis the VIIth (played brilliantly by Sir John Gielgud).

After meeting with the Pope, and arranging to come back to England, things never get set right with this debacle. In an off-the-cuff, exasperating declaration by Henry, Becket's sad fate is revealed.

In summation, "Becket" is an extraordinary visual experience. You can see the precision of acting excellence in both O'Toole and Burton. You will be riveted by the performance as they display the depth and range of each character; Henry's erratic and egotistical emotions balanced against Becket's single minded devotion. But, we wind up asking is it towards God, or himself? This is only a piece of the larger puzzle which you'll find in "Becket".

In closing, Jean Anouilh took some liberties with his play, and there are historical inaccuracies. However, this remains a stimulating character study in an absorbing time in England's history. It begs further investigation and it is well worth the effort. If anything, it proves that the complexity of human relationships remain just as strong now as it did almost 900 years ago. And with actors like these, it is well worth your time.
Highly Recommended!

Forsooth! -------- Metamorpho ;)