I remember seeing Godzilla Vs. The Thing (the title of the American International Productions 1964 U.S. release and the one I prefer) at a local movie theatre in 1969 or 1970, several years after its original run in theatres. I also had seen it at least once on TV before that and several times since.  When I first viewed the VHS widescreen version, I enjoyed seeing it in that format once again after all these years (I had missed seeing Godzilla approaching the Nagoya temple from the left, cutoff on the TV format)... and in near-pristine condition. The Simitar video (though externally labeled "Godzilla Vs. Mothra"), brings-back the classic "An American International Pictures release...Godzilla Vs. The Thing" opening credits. This is much nicer than the late 1980's Paramount Video release of Godzilla Vs. Mothra, which supplants the classic AI credits with the "new" title (which actually is the original Japanese title, reused for the sake of simplicity for newer audiences) and splices in the rest of the original credits...though done fairly well, one could detect the break! However, the Simitar version  eliminates the really original intro that I had seen on TV during the 70's. It showed the AIP logo and music, followed by a blank, though scratchy, screen in which the opening Toho theme begins, fades to the ocean/hurricane scene(without credits for several seconds), then the AIP Release credit---DOES ANYONE REMEMBER THIS? Instead, Simitar chose to skip all that and advance the beginning of the theme to the point at which "American International Pictures" appears in front of the ocean.  Aside from these technical points, the movie itself showcases Godzilla in his classic self---evil and menacing, with the best Godzilla suit design ever!  Combined with impressive sfx (the optical mixing and composite photography are markedly improved from the previous King Kong vs. Godzilla), dramatic music score, logical scripting, and excellent English dubbing, this movie exemplifies the serious and attentive manner in which Toho Studios created their giant-monster movies during the mid-sixties. Highly recommended! This feature, along with the follow-up, "Ghidora, the Three-Headed Monster", I consider to be the best in the entire series.