The problem with trying to make a feature film of THHGTTG is that its storyline does not readily lend itself to cinematic form. Those of use who grew up in the UK in the late 70s and early 80s loved the fact that it worked so well because it was an epic tale of quirky british humour and bizarre storytelling that could only really work with a large canvas. The radio show and even the BBC television show gave the story time to unravel as Douglas Adams strange but hilarious take on the history and make up of the universe started to find its niche in sci-fi culture.

However the problem that making this into a feature film is that whilst television and radio could afford to give 3 hours of time (6 x 30 minute segments) to the telling of this story, films rarely are given that luxury (unless you are David Lean or Peter Jackson). To enable more showings and thus sell more popcorn & pepsi, production companies like films to be no longer than 2 hours, shorter still if your target are youngsters.

With this in mind, Director Garth Jennings has done a decent job in keeping the core of the story intact within the film. Unfortunately this means that fans will have noticed some of the story's funnier diversions have had to be removed for the sake of running time, but nonetheless it keeps it on track, albeit in a slimmed down version. Martin Freeman is terrific as the very British Arthur Dent (although Adams original choice was Hugh Grant, which would have made an equally interesting take on the same character), taking his bewildered face, dressing gown & slippers through one strange scenario after another, too bemused to absorb the absurdities of his adventure. Mos Def is functional as Ford Prefect but lacks the strong character of David Dixon's original. The rest of the cast do their best with their limited amount of screentime, with Sam Rockwell doing particularly well as the two headed alien dude, Zaphod Beeblebrox.

Where the films scores highly is the excellent voice casting of Alan Rickman as Marvin the paranoid android, the marvelously sardonic UK comedian Bill Bailey (as the voice of the whale) and the brilliant Stephen Fry as the voice of the book.I was also glad to notice that the filmmakers had kept the original and inventive theme music, with its wonderful banjo sound. The special effects are fine if not totally awe inspiring but some of the scenes do look like the budget was starting to run out. However,if you are prepared to forgive these grumbles then this is an entertaining and fun movie,albeit an abridged version of the original radio & tv show.