This I believe is one of the greatest films ever made - and I reckon one of the most beautiful ones. 45 years old and seems like has been made yesterday. It is just timeless, very much its content.

In just one sentence, this film is like reflections from to parallel mirrors, they end up in eternity. With man and woman simply becoming Adam and Eve. And these reflection while in a sense, reflect real objects, after being repeated so many times, look absurd.

Film starts with narration of the main character reading text which I call poem, while camera aimlessly wanders around corridors and halls of a Gothic hotel/mansion where the rest of the movie takes place. All in the same place. And after the first scene, we find that it was part of a play that were being played for entertainment of the guests. And we think the rest will be more mainstream. But soon we realize the rest is just the same.

Everything seems to be frozen, words spoken except from two main characters formless and hardly bear any meaning. Music is just formless harmonies played on organ, sometimes with a hint of sadness and sometimes hint of being content and in occasions like it forecasts a tragedy. A few times it looks buoyant but we soon realise we were mistaken.

There is a strange garden, and pictures of this garden everywhere. Some old and gothic, some modern. Statues and people do not differ much, all the same vague, full of mystery to the verge absurdity. Games played are endless and absurd, always the same person wins and all look like each other whether played by cards or matches. Actually all actions gradually becomes ritualistic and even religious. With laying down cards, photos and matches in rows of 1, 3, 5 and 7. Absurd like a ritual, a game that is played only to lose and there is no way to win but this fact mysteriously hidden. Like life itself.

delete

Film alternates between frozen images of actors just staying motionless, and a romantic story between a man that believe has seen the married woman a year ago (or even before!) and woman does not recognize her, and last year they almost had an affair. Not that this story by itself makes much sense as a story but actually more portrays the paradoxical and ambivalent emotions of desire and commitment.

This movie is a journey and I encourage everyone to try it. It has just come out on DVD rental.