YES THEY DESERVED TO DIE AND I HOPE THEY BURN IN HELL!!!

Let me start by saying I am a Black American Woman. And I am a MOTHER. This movie took place in a time where the justice system was not on the side of MINORITY Americans, period. But let's put that all aside for a minute. This movie is about a PARENT. Parents KNOW their role is to protect and nurture their babies. And any parent with their child in the same situation, black, white, latino, asian, would probably temporarily go insane and seek revenge, especially in those times where racism was a huge part of life. And look at the nature of the CRIME that his little girl went through: Two grown behind men, drunk and nasty and violent at that, snatched his little girl. A GIRL. She was a baby!!! They violently beat her, they RAPED her, they took her ability to trust, to have children of her own, and thought they KILLED her after they bust her in her head, but she was strong....so strong......and she stayed alive. THEY knew what they were doing. Now, I don't even support the death penalty, but for any man, of ANY race might I add, do that to ANY child, again of ANY race, they are too sick to do the world any good.

This movie was very upsetting, and I did think for a moment, what would I have done if that was MY baby. I would have went CRAZY and reacted the same way. Can't nobody try to "talk sense" into me when it comes to the safety of my children at the hands of another person. In addition, Carl was getting information that was pointing towards those two men walking FREE. THAT is why Carl Lee's character killed them before that could happen.

I do agree that the whole line of "imagine she was white" was very ridiculous and not to mention irrelevant in my opinion. Samuel L. Jackson did not kill those two men because they were white. He killed them because they hurt his baby. HE did not see race when he pulled that trigger. The valid point that should have been made was "imaging she was YOUR young daughter." Because ANY parent worth their soul would take matters into their own hands if the  judicial system was not bringing them due justice. Remember that movie Eye for an Eye with Sally Fields? THAT is my point.