Guido is a director who can't make a film.  Meanwhile, he's the subject of a great film.  Others have given the story, so I won't recap it here.  I will say that watching the film as a woman is a strange experience. We are obviously supposed to identify with Guido for most of the movie, and yet his view of women is warped, as it is always filtered through two foundational experiences, linked to two senses: the bath and talcum powdering given to him by his mother while a child, which is associated with touch, and the dance of Saraghina, linked to sight.

He divides up the women in his life according to these experiences, with his wife (who is explicitly linked to his mother in more than one scene) standing for the sense of touch, while his mistress and most of the other women, are there for - in his mind - his visual pleasure.  While a child, he watched the prostitute Saraghina dancing on the beach and was caught and punished in his Catholic school.  This imprinted on his sexual self, and now desire is linked to shame for him.

The compass rose of his feelings toward women is the following: fear, disgust, longing, and desire.  Usually more than one will be present.  For his wife: fear and longing.  For his mistress: disgust and desire.  For Claudia, his ideal woman: longing and desire. His compass is always spinning around as he encounters other women. Note that love is not one of the options, but then again, neither is hate.  This is not a man who hates women, but also one who doesn't know how to love them.

Note too, that the verbal is missing from his two foundational experiences.  Sight and touch are key, but hearing and words are, for him, a sort of false arena of exchange, where lies are traded for lies in order to allow him to make films.  In his relationship with his wife, who he does long for (although I'm not sure he loves her), he is unable to speak to her in a real way, which drives her away from him due to his constant lies.  I really liked Luisa, Guido's wife, who is a strong character even in this very male-dominated movie.  The scene where Guido is showing his (awful) screen tests is a particularly interesting one, as it shows that Guido is being unfair and cruel to his wife. This scene is one of the few where I believe we're supposed to identify with someone other than Guido -i.e., with Luisa.  If the movie-in-a-movie is unfair, it opens up the possibility that Fellini knows that he has problems and issues with women.

The dance of Saraghina has many echoes in the film. Guido is constantly trying to control and reshape this experience, which showed the power of women over him. Note that Saraghina is older and shown almost as a giantess on film, as she would have seemed to the young Guido.  When he "directs" his mistress in fantasy play, he draws big eyebrows on her, like Saraghina had, and he says it's to make her look like a whore. In another long scene, he combines his two foundational experiences and has his wife, along with all the other women in his life, wash and powder him.  An old showgirl dances before them all.  This is a particularly cruel scene, and is another attempt to defuse the power of Saraghina's dance, as the old showgirl is old in a powerless way and her dance is grotesque.  In the end, she is sent upstairs with the other women who are too old for Guido's desire.  But because Saraghina's dance is imprinted on Guido's sexual template, no matter his treatment of other women, it cannot be contained and any victory over it will be a temporary one.

The ending is very powerful because at the very site of the failed transcendence of the spaceship scene from his failed movie, a scene of human collectivity is enacted.  All the characters come out holding hands, as in a parade, thus combining the senses of of touch and sight. Even his wife is connected to the whole, and we see a moment of togetherness.  And yet the secret of a happy ending is knowing where to stop, and the last shot of a lone performer suggests that when this moment is over, Guido will still be alone with his procrustean sexual scenarios.  But then again, he's been in one of the greatest movies ever, so art can redeem life, if only partly and imperfectly.