While it is -- frustratingly -- the third in a "triple dip" (following the theatrical DVD and extended cut DVD), if you are a "Sex and the City" collector / completist, then you cannot be without this set.

Discs One and Two are essentially the same as they are on the Extended Cut DVD release -- BUT!! -- Disc Two is *expanded* with three more featurettes that were obviously held back from the previous release so hard-core fans would have incentive to buy this package.

One featurette focuses on how they brought the movie to the screen, the second is about on the four leading ladies and the third is the HBO First Look program, "The Making of *Sex and the City.*"

On Disc Two of the extended cut release and this package, a conversation between Michael Patrick King and Sarah Jessica Parker takes place.  Disc Three features the full conversation, greatly expanded.  It plays as a "video commentary" (with many split screens and zooms in and out) to the theatrical cut of the film.  Disc Three also adds a feature on the DVD release party and the day Sarah Jessica Parker did the scene with all the wedding gown changes.

Disc Four is a music disc that is worth it for me because of two additions.  As a major aficionado of film scores, I am excited to find Aaron Zigman's "suite" (really two pieces from the film) on the disc and a notation that his score will soon be available on CD.  I am also pleased to find the "alternate" version of "Labels and Love" on the disc.  This "alternate" is what plays underneath the opening of the film.

Jennifer Hudson's song is also here, as are four songs "inspired by" the movie and the Pfeifer Bros. version of the SATC theme that is featured on the first volume of the movie soundtrack.

The box, designed like the wedding invitation to beat all wedding invitations, comes with a Certificate of Authenticity (only 85,000 of these things exist) and a slim hardcover book with pictures and quotes not only from the screenplay, but the "love letters from great men" referenced in the movie.

Overall, this is a FANTASTIC package both in terms of design and content.