Jack Pollexfen's second and last directorial effort, The Indestructible Man, is an unfortunate, snooze-inducing mess.  The basic ideas are very promising.  It combines a funky film-noir with a modern (for 1956) update on the Frankenstein story, with one of my favorite actors, Lon Chaney, Jr. as the "monster", and it's the first film I know of to use the basic plot later employed for Wes Craven's Shocker (1989).  Yet, despite this only being about 70 minutes long, I started watching about two hours before my normal bedtime and I could barely stay awake until the end.  I know I zoned out a couple times but hardly felt compelled to rewind the disc and make sure I didn't miss anything.

What really kills the film is the writing, which is surprising, because Pollexfen's principal vocation throughout his career was as a writer.  But for some reason, he didn't write this.  Two people I've never heard of did the job instead--Vy Russell and Sue Bradford.  At times, the writing resembles Ed Wood, especially in the narration, which was a bad idea.  Not that the direction is much to speak of, but aside from letting some bad, out of focus cinematography slide by, it's pretty competent in a poverty-row sort of way (I happen to like many of the poverty row pictures a lot).

Chaney doesn't get to do enough here, and the plot demands that he cannot speak for most of the film.  Max Showalter, the detective/narrator, and to a lesser extent Marian Carr are the stars.  Showalter's okay, and Carr is attractive and decent enough, but I would have rather had more Chaney.  In the bad directorial decision department, there are a few times that Pollexfen has Chaney make Lugosi-Dracula-like googly eyes while he moves towards the camera.  It's a bad idea both because it's very cheesy in a bad way and it's responsible for a lot of the out of focus stuff.  I don't know if they didn't have a focus puller or if he had already fallen asleep.

In the middle, I also started to lose track of the various victims.  They all kinda looked the same, there wasn't much character development, and the scenes leading up to their demises were drawn out and bland.  Once the victim entered the scene, they weren't in it for very long.  On the other hand, I did mention that I zoned out a few times.

However, there are some interesting features besides the good core ideas. One is that there is some structural resemblance, especially during the end, to Orson Welles' Touch of Evil, believe it or not, and that came out in 1958--two years after this. There is also a bit of structural resemblance in the end of Blacula (1972). Not that this film was influential. The resemblance was probably coincidental, and for all I know, Indestructible Man stole some of this stuff from other sources, but just maybe . . . and it's still interesting to witness, anyway.

I'm mostly complaining in this review, but it's not that this is a completely awful film.  It's certainly worth seeing if you're a Chaney fan, a film-noir fan or a Frankenstein film fan.  Just don't expect too much, and preferably watch it when you're wide awake.