Im not a video buff but when I used to shop here, I bought a few of my favorite movies on DVD. This was one of them, its' not remastered or anything its' simply that DVDs' last waaaaaay longer than VHS tapes. Paramount Pictures' '48 HRS.' came at the right time and in the right form, there were BIG reasons it made over $80m. at the box office in no time. SNL star Eddie Murphy who had never done a picture, was picked up by Walter Hill at age 21 to star along side veteran actor Nick Nolte in this, the kind of movie nobody had ever seen before. It was a low budget, very basic film with a few mistakes like scenes that were filmed for the middle or end of the movie were spliced into the beginning, but '48 HRS.' started the entire craze that has now become something all actors and filmmakers can rely on..the scenerio that is. Detective Jack Cates (Nolte) is the sloppy, alcohol-chugging and chain-smoking edgy cop, who gets a smooth-talking B.S. artist convict (Eddie Murphy) out of jail for 48 hours to hunt down a ruthless escape killer (A young James Remar) and his partner (former 70s' porn star Sonny Landham). Drenched with racial tention between the two, graphically foul language and a few nude women, the movie has a rough edge that is still admired today, 21 years later. I see these ads for movies like 'Bad Company' this and 'Bad Boys' that..hey, if you're a fan of the actors or just bored one night theres your movie but in reality they ssssuck. '48 HRS.' layed the groundwork, without which there would BE no 'Training Day', 'Rush Hour', 'Enemy of the State'...not the exact way they were made anyway. The intense 1982 comedy/drama began inspiring film and tv in less than a year in fact..1984's 'Beverly Hills Cop' which was originally written for Sylvester Stallone, became another spin-off of the '48 HRS.' story as did 'Miami Vice', 'Stakeout', 'Lethal Weapon' and others that were huge hits also. Margot Rose is the one I love seeing every time I flip by this movie on tv, god she was sooo cute when she was younger...still cute now, older but cute. There are a few scenes missing from the DVD that you ironically may catch when its' on prime time tv, I mean they're not important, its just kind of odd that they did'nt print them on the disc. '48 HRS.' was one of the movies I used to always love watching with tremendous amounts of alcohol (I DO NOT RECOMMEND THAT FOR ANYONE, NOBODY BLAME ME IF YOUR KID STARTS DRINKING), my point being its a classic American movie that wont ever grow old, Eddie Murphy's 10 minuet scene in Walter Hill's fictional 'Torchy's' bar is what made this superstar famous...think of what might've happened to Eddie Murphy if Gregory Hines HAD'NT backed out of this role......