If you've never 'done time', and think you know what prison is all about, think again. You can be sure,'OZ' WILL make you stop and think. And if you have doubts that a show about the daily grind in the big house would be very interesting, that opinion will be changed 10 minutes into the first episode.

The Good:
'OZ' is set as an East Coast penitentiary, and does a remarkable job of recreating the environment one finds in prison. The cast is truly first rate; characters from other films and shows make appearances in 'OZ' that demonstrate their versatility and talent in ways that will shock you. There are some who you find yourself hating at a visceral level; others will make your heart sick for the damage inflicted on their humanity. Because the show spares no aspect of prison life, you'll see a grade of brutality that, while the norm for inmates, the common man on the street seldom encounters. There are no punches pulled with 'OZ'. Male nudity & rape, homosexual encounters, drug use, and sociopathic manipulation are all just around the next corner. The show also gives you a view into the power struggles of not only the inmates, but the politicians, prison staff, and guards. Each character has their own personal victories and defeats. Just as any good show marks it's success by how much the viewer 'cares' about seeing what happens next, the creators of 'OZ' have a real winner here.

The Bad:
The one aspect of prison life that 'OZ' is weak at conveying is the utter boredom that one encounters when locked away. The show is a drama, not a documentary, so this can be overlooked. Another aggravating issue is the tendency for the show to skip ahead in large (and unexplained) blocks of time; e.g. one scene will end, and the next is supposed to be two months later. The last noteworthy complaint is again related to this being a drama and not reality: the quantity of violence is a bit much at times. While the savagery of prison violence is accurate enough, the sheer number of killings alone is a bit absurd. This is annoying because it will leave most viewers firmly convinced that prison has a 20% mortality rate, which is simply not true.

Corruption and redemption mark the sides of the pendulum upon which 'OZ' swings. When a show lasts for 6 seasons, and ends by design (rather than cancellation) is telling of it's quality. 'OZ' does not go stale. You will want the entire series ready at hand, because when one episode ends, you won't want to wait for the next.