First off I'm quite amazed, it seems EVERY other review on here is about the movie!! Well this is not the VHS, DVD or blu-ray, you have clicked on the CD version of Spiceworld, aka the very bearable soundtrack to the movie.

This album is great. Listening to it makes me realise what a lost society we live in now, where barely an original tune is released anymore. Spiceworld takes me back to not only my early teen years, but back to when music was great. The melodies are superb and catchy, and the lyrics mean something worthwile. Now for my song reviews:

1. Spice Up Your Life - 3/5. My least favourite track on the album, the one time I felt the girls had been pressured into a particular type of song to appeal for the first single. It's not bad, but it's not up to the Spice Girls standards.

2. Stop - 4.5/5. Terrific, a lot of people's favourite track. It's upbeat, and fun, and has a terrific climax.

3. Too Much - 4/5. A very sweet yet sexy sort of song that cold be construed as this album's "2 Become 1". Listening to it, you can just tell it's classic Britpop (what ever happened to that, btw?).

4. Saturday Night Divas - 4/5. Another of those fun songs that could easily appeal to the brainless no-taste kids out there who only like music to dance to, but it also packs a very catchy original tune, and it just gels really, really well. Will get stuck in your head for days.

5. Never Give Up On The Good Times - 5/5. My person favourite of all Spice Girls songs. I remember when I first heard it, I was sure I'd heard it before somewhere. Never did find out, but I guess I didn't, perhaps it's just that original that you feel like you've heard it before because it's so good.
Anyway, this is a long one (clocks in at 4 and a half minutes!!) but that's because there's so much there. It starts of with frogs (yeah, frogs), and then jumps into a head-nodding beat, and then the strings come in and take over the show. As usual, Mel C's strong and unique voice is used to good effect here (Never give it up, no; never give it up, no). Can't get any better than this, if it's your sort of thing.

6. Move Over - 3.5/5. Generation Next, which I sang as Generation X for about 10 years... This is another fun one that goes just that one step further so it doesn't seal its fate as another forgettable pop tune. It's probably near the bottom of the pile in terms of favourites, but it's still very good and catchy.

7. Do It - 4/5. From the get-go Mel C's voice "duetting" with itself tells you that you're in for a great original British song (aren't we the best?). This song is about doing what you want and not caring what others think. I can't get over how such a cool, hip tune (even in today's society) is able to add genuinely touching moments in between. Quite wonderful and catchy.

8. Denying - 4/5. Same as above. Hip, catchy as hell, and with touching moments. This song has just that bit more substance than the rest because it's dealing with someone who thinks they're better than everyone else.

9. Viva Forever - 4/5. The prettiest song on the album, it's clearly inspired by Geri "Ginger" Halliwell's background. Very Spanish sounding, but with those awesome strings put to good use again, and a tune that is actually remarkably beautiful. If the music video hadn't been so stupid, I'd give it 4.5.

10. The Lady Is A Tramp - 4.5/5. What fun! Scrap the past 40 years of music development and go straight back into the good old jazz/Chicago-esque style. My Dad, who's in his late 60s, loves this song. And so do I. It's just so completely unexpected from the Girls and it's original to boot. Go back in time and release this as a record single, nobody will know the difference and it'd be a hit then too. The ending is terrific and sends chills down my spine. As with every song on this album, I recommend playing it really loud on an excellent sound system.

So there you go. I honestly believe every track on this album could have been a number 1 hit had they been given the chance, but the fact that the album was #1 for so long shows just how terrific the music is. I'd say this album will go down in history... just as soon as these emo people stop taking over the music world and brandishing everything as shamefully lame. I'll sit and listen to this while I wait. :)