I was so happy to finally have this DVD in my hot little hand and I wasted no time popping it into my DVD player after getting home from work today.  I really enjoyed this movie.  It wasn't perfect and you need look no further than the rating I gave this movie.  But I truly, honestly, enjoyed this grand return of Robotech.  Here are some of my thoughts on it.  I really appreciated the effort the creators put into this.  The directors, the voice actors, the artists, the music composers, the  sound engineers  and everyone else all did a marvelous job.  This movie isn't something that was put together by some sleazy investment group who was looking only to cash in on the Robotech name.  The creators genuinely made an effort to give us fans a fat tablespoon of Robotech goodness.  Don't tell me you didn't get goose bumpts when they rolled out those Cyclones or smile from ear to ear when you heard JANICE tease us with a bit of those all too familiar tunes.  Speaking of JANICE, I liked the new characters that were introduced and the new direction of Ariel's character.  Ariel really needed growth and needed to evolve and I think they accomplished that in this movie.  The Shadow Chronicles was a very mature and intelligent  animated movie.  This was by no means a Saturday morning cartoon, not even close.  And I think the musical score did a lot to make it that way.  When you hear the musical score and the sound effects, you get a very real sence of drama, impact, and presence.  But now let's get into the flaws.  This movie was obviously a pilot for an ongoing series which to an extent I'm ok with.  I would have preferred a little more finality to the movie though.  I think you can do a pilot without it feeling like it should have been thirty minutes longer just to tie up the loose ends.  I also would have preferred to have seen a little more drama in the movie.  Although I can understand why they wanted to put out a movie that was heavy on the action.  That's what today's audiences crave and there was a risk that people might lack the patience to see characters fleshed out by featuring more scenes with dialog and emotion.  The creators obviusly wanted to offfer something that would grab old and new fans alike so that they could get an ongoing series started.  It's a smart idea and I hope it works.  If a full blown season of Robotech should come about, I'd really like to see them follow the formula of the original Robotech Macross Saga, that is, a balance of smart storytelling with both drama and action.  After watching the Shadow Chronicles, I'm confident that's exactly what we'll get.  All I have left to say is that Robotech: The Shadow Chronicles is a fun movie that features great action, a cool story, and interesting characters.  Oh, and let's not forget  to mention all the amazing mecha that's displayed too.  Welcome back Robotech!