While that remark may be harsh, and to some actually taken in a mean-spirited way, please read it once more, and consider it in love. Because Rudy had to do just that, and while in the film it wasn't said quite in that manner, that was the point. And in the end, the man with the dream, the one who listened to all the taunts, teases, and endured the agony of defeat, came out swinging. All adversaries whether friends or just plain creeps, they all ate crow in the end. The ones who encouraged Rudy shared in the joy of his victory!

Hey, you watch this and you just think to yourself about how easy it is to throw in the towel. To get so disgusted with everything life throws at you, and just quit. I've done it, even seen some people do it with life. Life was just too tough, therefore suicide was the easiest way out. But it seemed to me that sometimes Rudy had that tough love when he wanted to give up. When he tried to say that a whole year at Holy Cross was a waste, his boss, the maintenance man told him this, "You got your head so far up your ass about that damn football team, you missed the fact. You just got a year of top quality education. Waste? Don't be wastin' my time!" If that doesn't wake you up, then keep dreaming! Listen to the ones who mentor you. You might not always like what they say, but they're usually always right!

If you get just 1 thing out of this film, just remember to get up when you get knocked down. Don't let jerks get the best of you. John Hagee said, "When God sends you out in the ocean to catch Moby Dick, TAKE THE TARTER SAUCE WITH YOU!!!" The final lesson in this is simple. Don't apologize for your efforts. You will always have the kind of people who tell you, "Look at who you might be hurting, you only think of yourself." I've had to learn that sometimes, a simple SCREW YOU works just fine with that crowd, and I just kept my eyes open. Is this a tough lesson to learn? Oh yes is is! Is it worth it? Even more so. This movie is awesome for old and young alike, because it touches the soul, and ultimately builds a warrior. Kudos!