After loving the poignant, sad, wistful story contained in the book, I was eager to see how the movie measured up. I'd hoped to see the beautiful story on the written page come to life on the screen.

I was utterly disappointed.

The movie is split between what occurs in the book (the story of Snow Flower and Lily) and a modern parallel story that never occurs in the book at all. I didn't want to see a "modernized" version of this amazing story. I wanted to see the story itself! The constant interruption between the past and present stories was irritating and disruptive to the beautifully sad tale of Snow Flower and Lily.

In addition, and perhaps because the movie writers decided to massacre the book by making the movie a half-modern parallel, there isn't enough time to tell Snow Flower and Lily's tale at all. Scenes are short, abrupt, jumping years ahead within minutes of each other. It might have been more effective if there'd been some narration by Lily to explain what was happening in certain scenes, and why. Someone who hasn't read the book won't understand entire portions of the story, especially if they know nothing about Chinese culture and history. Gripping sections of the book, such as the foot-binding of the girls, which is described in agonizing detail, in the movie is just a short 30-second glimpse that reveals nothing of the prolonged agony these children suffered (2 full years of being confined while their feet "healed" from the mutilation). The scenes where the families flee from the rebellion are brief, showing nothing of the horror, death, starvation, and struggle for survival (except one brief glimpse of a child dying). Lily's first meeting with her husband is completely different from the book (in the book, he was shy, polite, and kind). Lily's pride and naivety, and eventual self-examination and humility, are never portrayed at all.

Bottom line: just read the book. The movie is like someone took the book, chopped it into pieces, then tried to superglue it back together, and in all the wrong places, with half the pieces missing. The book is beautiful. Whether it's historically accurate or not is debatable, but I found it fascinating, sad, and moving.