So many people have a certain view of history as being boring. But when you have a Python delivering the lesson you know you are going to score some entertainment value. And therein lies both the strength and the weakness of this documentary which appears to have been quite a labour of love for Terry Jones.

Not that he does it all on his own. Oh no, this thing has all the nice film work you'd expect of a BBC production and quite apart from the travelling to and fro the various points of interest in the middle east the documentary makers have gone to the trouble to interview a whole range of talking heads. You see, as Terry Jones is more of an amateur historian this product quite rightly shows him learning a thing or three along the way and the way Jones throws himself into it - gearing up in armour at times, re-enacting aspects of the crusaders life and making use of interactions with some modern day denizens of the area at hand - really aids the viewers feeling of connectivity.

The downside here is largely one of historical accuracy. A perusal of the one star reviews will show you that there are some serious flaws in some of the information presented and these mainly centre on the Crusade IV (sort of like a bad Hollywood horror film they just kept makin' them don't ya know). As others has laid these bare at length I'll not repeat them here, but these errors are such a disappointment when the series itself has so much verve and life. One saving grace is that the main criticisms seem to be - as I said - in relation to the shows treatment of the 4th Crusade and since this only takes up a part of the overall whole this is probably still a fun place to start your journey of finding out more about this fascinating period of history. And if you want hints as to what other products may help you along your way some of those who have slugged this with one star reviews have been kind enough to offer suggestions of more scholarly work.

As for myself, I grant this four stars for the excitement it instils, the humour and the gusto with which the subject is attacked and the down to earth way information is presented. If you accept it's limitations as noted elsewhere this is a pretty good buy and it's certainly something I've watched a number of times over the years.