Anyone who is giving this a great review really does not know the comics or charicters very well.  More importantly, they do not know what makes for great story-telling because this is a TERRIBLE story.

My credentials: Comicbook collector for 30 years.  I own over 100,000 and have favored the DC characters since I was a child.  I consider myself to be a knowledgable fan and expert.

The artwork in this film was not that great.....but that is ok.  The voice acting was pretty good.  The story line, plot development, and character backgrounds/definitions were probably the WORST of any animated movie I have ever seen.

Almost every scene had nothing to do with the next one or any other one for that matter.  Almost every scene had nothing to do with how the story would progress or eventually resolve.  Examples:

1: The first scene with Superman and Wonder Woman had nothing to do with any other point in the movie where they interacted with each other.
2: The story and development of J'onn Jonzz, The Martian Manhunter (which was a majority of the film) had nothing to do with anything.  The story could have been told with the omission of ALL his scenes.
3: ALL the scenes of interaction between Batman and J'onn were irrelevant to the unanticipated role that Batman would play at the end.  Eliminate all those scenes and the storyline would have been the same.
4: The main "bad guy" has been around for millions of years, then basically pops up out of nowhere (in terms of human history) and is then defeated in what I consider to be extremely easy fashion.
5: Said bad guy takes out Superman like he's a ragdoll but can't do the same with the Flash, or the humans that are attacking it?

I could list many more but I think you get my point.  Bottom line; All this is is a collection of non-related scenes leading up to a lame conclusion.  I am so very disappointed in Bruce Timm (normally an absolute genius), Darwyn Cooke, and especially Dan Didio and DC Comics for allowing this rubbish to be distributed.

As a DC fanatic, I cant help but notice the quality stuff being put out by Marvel. (Iron Man, Dr. Strange, and other animation).  Come on DC.....you can be great again.