"If it's Halloween, then it must be Saw."

Movie Review:
We've been hearing that tag-line for the last six years, but we never really knew just how extensive the franchise would get. While the 'Saw' series has been been panned by many critics, the films still manage to reach out and bring countless fans to the theater every Halloween...and I'm one of them. It's difficult to describe why I love the series so much. I consider the Saw series to be one of the most original set of horror films the industry has put out in some time. Sure, the traps and the blood are a generic way of attracting movie-goers, but I ultimately respect the franchise's ability to actually bring some sort of narrative to the genre. The plot in these movies gradually builds as each film is released, and while it's not the most amazing story in the world, it still manages to bring enough twists and turns to make you want more the following year. I'm one of the few who watch these films strictly for the story. I loved the first four installments of the franchise, but I found the fifth film to be lacking in its potential to bring a good story. Thankfully, Kevin Greutert redeems the franchise and brings it back into top form with Saw VI, which is easily the best in the second trilogy.

I've reviewed the film before, and all I have to say is that it delivers. I came out of the midnight opening surprised at how well everything fit together. The narrative is solid, there are some great performances (especially from Tobin Bell), we see flashbacks that give us a glimpse as to why the characters developed the way they did, and we get some amazing twists. When it comes to the Director's Cut on Blu-Ray, I'll have to be honest: I thought it took away from the theatrical version, which was much better in my opinion. I doubt a casual movie-goer will be able to tell the difference, but the editing is completely different in some scenes, particularly the end. I loved how the theatrical version wrapped everything together and allowed us to really experience the ultimate final moments of the film. The Director's Cut, however, feels a bit more rushed, even with the added material. I really wish an option was given, but we're stuck with the Director's Cut. Overall, this cut is solid. It does bring out a lot of the violence, but it takes away some of the momentum that made the theatrical presentation much more suspenseful.

Picture Quality:
As for the picture quality, Saw fans will be happy to know that Lionsgate brought about a faithful transfer. Some of the scenes in the movie are great to look at, and really have a good level of depth and sharpness. These scenes really bring out the atmosphere of the movie. The traps are visually stunning, so gore-fans will be happy with the level of detail the picture quality is able to bring. Other scenes, however, aren't as sharp or as clean to look at (particularly the flashback sequences) so expect some inconsistencies. The film does maintain some grain throughout, but if you've already purchased 'Saw IV' or 'Saw V' on Blu-Ray, you should know what to expect. Overall, the picture quality was solid and I'm glad it utilized the strengths Blu-Ray has to offer. Fans should be pleased with this HD release...I know I was.

Audio:
The audio quality on the Blu-Ray is great. Every time I hear a Blu-Ray release is using DTS-HD Master Audio, I know I'll be satisfied with the audio quality. If you have surround sound, the film will definitely pack a punch. You'll hear every detail of what's going on. From the loud screams, to the blood splashing everywhere...it's really a great experience. My only complaint is that the audio track in this film does sometimes overpower the dialogue, but its nothing that took away from seeing the film.

Extras:
'Saw VI' on Blu-Ray does have some good features, but frankly they don't last. 'Jigsaw Revealed' is a quick glimpse as to how Tobin Bell has developed the character throughout the franchise. 'The Traps of Saw VI' offers a fun, but fast behind-the-scenes look at how the traps were made. This feature wasn't as extensive as I thought it would be. 'Making SAW: GAME OVER' is a fun glimpse as to how they made the maze attraction. This was one of the best features on the disc. The disc also includes two audio commentaries, which are fun to hear if you're doing something online. The music videos and the film's trailer are included...but I have YouTube for that (when will people stop including junk like this in a package's special features?). Finally, the overall package includes the original 'Saw' Blu-Ray on a separate disc. This is the same transfer as the stand-alone release. I own the first three Saw films on DVD, and have the second trilogy on Blu-Ray. I guess it's cool to have the first film, but I would have rather had a Digital Copy of Saw VI to put on my laptop for future travel. Saw fans might be disappointed with the extras. It seems that the good old days of Special Features seems to be long gone.

Overall:
'Saw VI' can be considered the franchise's savior. Just when I thought the Saw blade was getting rusty with 'Saw V', the sixth installment showed me that the series still has some fresh ideas to develop. It's a solid horror film with a good story, lots of gore, and even a subtle political agenda with its stance on the health care system. Saw fans across the world were happy when walking out of the sixth installment. It answers countless questions, but it leaves a lot of open questions as well. I'm a little disappointed that 'Saw VII 3-D' is coming out this year, because 'Saw VI' would have been a great finale, even with all the lingering questions. The Director's Cut on the Blu-Ray is solid, even though the theatrical version was better. As for the overall Blu-Ray release, Lionsgate treats fans with a solid video transfer and a top-notch audio track. The Blu-Ray package lacks some good supplements, but the film itself warrants the purchase. If you're still watching up to the sixth installment, then you're obviously a fan. I highly recommend this Blu-Ray package to fans of the franchise and general horror fans alike.