Senor Suntan himself, George Hamilton, was an inspired choice to play the ever-pasty Count Dracula, in this incredibly funny spoof of vampire movies.  He travels to "modern" (meaning 1979) New York City, in search of a woman he hopes is his true love, whom he knows only from seeing her photo in fashion magazines.  The object of his affections is Cindy Sondheim, a vamping Manhattan model played fetchingly by the lovely Susan Saint James.

Will they find true love, and/or exchange bodily fluids?  I'm not going to spoil the film for anyone, but I will warn you, O Viewer, that they must first overcome the determined opposition of Cindy's psychiatrist, and occasional bedmate, Dr. Jeffery Rosenberg.  Played by Richard Benjamin, the good doctor offers a hilarious host of funny, fruity, fruitless efforts to foil the feckless Count.  All the Count and Cindy have on their side is the assistance of the disgusting Renfield, gleefully played to the hilt by Arte Johnson.

I first saw this in the cinema when it came out, slightly before I turned twelve.  I just thought it was hilarious.  I went around spouting lines from it for months...  "Really?  Are you sure?!" was one of my favorites, just because of Richard Benjamin's delivery.  He is so funny, I start laughing every time I even see his face in this film.  But overall, there are just sooooo many little funny lines, and scenes, throughout this film.  I just think they did a really great job with this idea.  It ain't "Casablanca," but if you're looking for a really fun little film to make you laugh, you can't do much better than this.

If you are a younger person, there may be kind of a lot of dated, 1970s pop culture references for you to sort out.  For example, there are at least three references made to "Roots," which was an unbelievably popular 1978 television miniseries, about slaves and their descendants surviving in America.  I'm not exactly sure why "Roots" is mentioned so often...  Either it was to provide a subtext of other people coming to America for the first time, or, more likely, it was a wiley effort on the part of the writers to lure more African-Americans to buy tickets.  Sherman Hemsley and Isabel Sanford, better known as George and Weezie Jefferson, from the hit 70s African-American TV show "The Jeffersons," also have small roles.

Other 1970s pop culture references include: references to "Fantasy Island," which was a popular TV show at the time; a few appearances by disheveled-looking folks who were known as "hippies," and were omnipresent throughout the 70s; the often loud, generally plaid, invariably frightening, 1970s wardrobe of the actors; and comments about biorhythms, which were a common topic of conversation among people at the time.

Although this is basically just a funny movie, I'd just like to point out one truly scary fact that you might want to think about, while seeing this terrific movie.  You will definitely notice certain things about the behavior of these characters which seem almost criminal today.  For example, they are constantly popping pills, and having enthusiastically meaningless sex with virtually any random stranger that walks down the street.  One of my favorite lines is when Cindy tells Dr. Rosenberg that she and Dracula had sex "two and a half" times (until she fell asleep), but he only bit her once.  To explain why he only bit her once amidst all the wild sex, she shyly points out that, after all, "it was our first date."  While you're laughing at all the jokes about sucking blood, casual sex, and rampant 1970s drug use amongst all the characters, you might remember that although no one even knew it yet, AIDS had already appeared in the United States.  It wouldn't be named or publically acknowledged for almost two years after this film came out, but it had already been here for several months when this film was opening in theaters.  Just a few years later, this film could not possibly have been made without completely revamping (what an awful pun, please forgive me) the general sense of humor.  For an interesting, funny contrast, you might want to try watching a DVD of Season 15 of Saturday Night Live, from 1989.  In the October 28th episode, hosted by James Woods, they have a hilarious skit in which Dracula, played by James Woods, must constantly evaluate prospective victims, for their likelihood of having AIDS.  He basically has to ask them to answer a verbal questionnaire, before he can chomp on their necks.  You have to see the skit for yourself, if you can find it on DVD.  It's funny, in a sad way, to compare that skit to this movie from ten years earlier.

Another funny sign of the times is the way Dr. Rosenberg's moral relativism compares to the strict rectitude of earlier generations of vampire hunters.  While stalking the Count, he engages in breaking and entering, casual sex, drug use, and he even gratuitously sets a criminal free from a guaranteed trip to the slammer.  He agonizes about it all, but basically we get the message that the world has changed since the days of Bram Stoker.

But I don't want to be too much of a downer.  Overall, this movie is just really hilarious, and I'm glad I saw it.  I hope you see it too.  Two thumbs up!