Since buying El's 1st movie on VHS, I bought a DVD drive for my computer. So with Halloween about a month away, I bought the 2nd movie on DVD--a purchase I'm glad I made. This time, the setting is eastern Europe in the mid-19th century, &amp; El is not the only gal flaunting sharp cleavage--her French maid Zou Zou keeps blood sausages &amp; a few other goodies hidden within it &amp; pulls the items out as they're needed. In this movie, not only will you find spoofs on Roger Corman &amp; Vincent Price horror films (though I might add that I've never seen the originals). You'll also hear, in the 1st few minutes of the movie, an irate inkeeper screaming, "Heeeeeeeeeere's Johann!"--a variation of Ed McMahon's famous opening of the Johnny Carson show. After she &amp; Zou Zou flee said inkeeper, El gets sexually harassed again--this time by a guy who gives them a ride to a haunted castle where they end up spending 2 full days &amp; nights. As luck would have it, our heroine bears a very close resemblance (in both looks &amp; name) to Elura, the castle master's late 1st wife, who supposedly committed suicide exactly 10 years before the 1st full day of Elvira's stay. But investigation of the castle, aided by scary dreams, convinces Elvira otherwise. In this castle (&amp; family), acts such as adultery &amp; theft of family jewels are punishable by torture &amp; murder. Elvira even gets briefly possessed twice by the vengeful spirit of Elura, who is played by the very same actress as our heroine. Rocky Horror Picture Show fans will get a nice (trick-or-)treat out of this as well because Richard O'Brien portrays the demented master of the castle.
The "making-of" featurette shows Cassandra Peterson, this time WITHOUT the Elvira costume, discussing things like on-set injuries, lack of suitable stunt doubles, &amp; how she &amp; husband Mark Pierson had to finance the movie themselves. Another bonus item is an O'Brien interview with the dungeon set in the background.
While making this movie, Cassandra reached 2 milestones: 50 years of life &amp; 20 years of Elvira. Yes, the camera does show her age at times (especially in her face), but in that best-known role of hers, she still has the power to titillate the fellas (no pun intended).