This documentary is best described as an informative muckraking film which depicts the intellectual bullying which takes place on many college campuses around the United States. Furthermore, it is a sort of "call to arms" to college students and faculty to start a new free speech movement on campus.

The central messages of the film are as follows:

1) Leftist political views are overrepresented among college faculty and administrations nation wide.
2) This excess of political power allows the left on campus to resort to thug-like tactics to crush dissent. Such tactics include, labeling the opposition as being bigoted, racist, sexist, etc., pressing court charges, and expulsion.
3) These tactics are unacceptable and a new free speech movement must be formed so that colleges will be forced to allow open debate on all political issues.

The presentation of the arguement was professional, logical and provocative I recommend it to any college student or faculty member.

My only criticism of the film is that while it excellently presents its arguement, it seems too heavily geared toward a right-leaning audience. There are two possible problems this could cause if you look at the free speech movement it advocates from a more strategic and long-term perspective.

The first possible danger is that conservatives are in the minority in almost any college campus. This means that for any free speech movement to be successful, it must appeal to the moderate-left; students who may not be as radical as the faculty, but who describe themselves as liberal democrats and who believe in free speech. This would ensure the movement gains sufficient power to force a change.

The second possible danger is that if the proportion of right-leaning students increases and therefore gains sufficient political power, then its free speech movement may end up turning into another political power grab (like the free speech movement of the '60s). It is therefore vital that any free speech movement is a bipartisan effort so that the liberals and conservatives can regulate each other and both would be prevented from reverting to intellectual bullying in the future.