Body Heat is one of my all time favorite movies. I am a big fan of film-noir, of which Body Heat was a modern exemplar as well as an example of a time when adults made movies for other adults.

Since other reviews amply explain the plot, I will restrict my comments to the DVD. I do want to say that part of the magic of this movie is the pitch-perfect casting from William Hurt as the over-matched, incompetent lawyer, to the gorgeous and sensual Kathleen Turner as his femme fatale, to even those acting in smaller roles such as the Ted Danson as the dancing DA and Mickey Rourke as an expert arsonist for hire. There is not a bad casting decision here, nor a wasted scene.

The Deluxe Edition DVD provides several worthwhile extras. Most notably, interviews with Kasdan, Hurt, Turner, and Danson shot recently, provide a great deal of insight into the intent of the movie, how the actors were selected, why the movie was shot in Florida instead of New Jersey as originally planned, and some of the obstacles that had to be overcome (the cold weather!, Alan Ladd's objection to Hurt's mustache, Turner's shyness about filming nude during the sex scenes, and so on). Most interesting to me was the explanation of what Maddy Walker (the Turner character) was feeling at the end of the movie in the final scene. The movie always seemed ambiguous to me with respect to whether she really cared for Racine or not. The documentary provides some insight from Kasdan's and the actor's perspectives.

The axed scenes are also of interest. I almost always agree with the decision to exclude scenes when I have seen them on DVDs and this is no exception. However, it is interesting to see how the story was originally planned and that there was actually a failed attempt to murder Maddy's husband prior to the successful attempt. It is also nice to see Turner in a sexy stewardess outfit (in the movie the Racine character has a thing for women in uniforms).

The sensuality of John Barry's wonderful jazzy score can not be emphasized enough. The score is, as Kasdan remarks, a character in the movie.

In short, the Deluxe Edition is worth the extra few dollars over the regular edition for any Body Heat fan. Would that they made movies like this today!