Bottle Rocket is a film by Wes Anderson, who, along with actor Owen Wilson wrote this fantastic film full of smart humor and unique directing.  Everything done in the film is intentional, such as the outfits worn and the colors used in the background.  Anderson's unique visual style along with Owen Wilson's hysterical comedic delivery make this film an absolute keeper.  It stars 3 would be criminals who hold up a bookstore and then run off and hide in an unknown remote hotel.  The trio leaves at a burst of catastrophe which involves one of the characters brother who has trouble with the law.  The end result is a final commission from a big wig thief (James Caan) whom Owen Wilson's character idolizes to rob an old factory.  The story drags a bit at the hotel sequence, but the hysterical finale makes it all worthwhile.  I must mention as well that the characters are great and very unique in that each of their personalities has something massively easy to remember.  
  The dvd has no extras, and seeing as the film is spawned off of a 30 minute short of the same name, it would have been great to see some extras treatment.  Comparitively, the commentary track and extras that were piled onto the Criterion Collections "Rushmore" dvd make you wish even more that "Bottle Rocket" could have gotten at least something(Anderson and Wilson's commentary in "Rushmore" open the eyes of the viewer to so many great things that most likely would have gone unnoticed..how much more for this one!).  Yet as it stands, I think we are lucky this film is on dvd at all.  
  The music is wonderful, completely unique, and adds to every scene.  The humor in the movie is comparable to Anderson's other film "Rushmore" as well as the hidden gem "Safe Men" in that it is very dialogue driven.  Fans of "Tommy Boy" or "Ace Ventura" may not enjoy the humor quite as much.  It is like "Waiting for Guffman" in that the first time you see it you may laugh out loud a bit, but you will quote the movie for weeks after.  The second viewing is always the best, and each time after I have noticed different expressions from the characters and laughed in many different places.  So give it a try and check out something new.  This is Owen Wilsons first movie, Wes Anderson's first feature film, and it is the first of (hopefully) many collaborative efforts to come.  Also check out "Rushmore" and the soon to be born "Royal Tenenbaums".
I gave the dvd 4/5 stars due to the lack of the extras, but the print is clean, it can be viewed in either wide or full screen, and the movie-though not flawless-is one of a kind.