I have always thought Batman were the best superhero. No mumbojumbo powers, no silly slogans or sickening peace and love.
The 60`s series was totally horrible, it pictured a Batman that was downright embarrasing. There was no style, there was no darkness, only a stupid, dumb fat Batman.
Then came Batman the Movie.
Tim Burton saved Batman from the  60`s, took him into a world of nightmares, violence and deaths, changed him from a fat bum with slapstick jokes til a man on the edge with enough vengance to take down the whole Gotham City. Yup, no fun and games anymore.
The story in short words.
Jack Napier is ordered to rob a safe in a chemical plant, but is set up by his boss, and to complicate everything, Batman arrives and everything ends with Napier taking a dip into the acid pool...turning into who we know
as....The Joker. He clicks and starts a spree of crime in Gotham City, and its up to Batman to stop him.
Simple but effective, the story is pretty good, while it takes a few liberties with origin of the characters, it does not hinder the movie, but the major key in Bruce Wayne`s story is...well I can understand Tim Burton`s decision, and it was a bit surprising, but also a bit TOO obvious. You`ll see..;)
On to the DVD. The movie it self scores skyhigh. But I was very disappointed with the DVD. There is NOTHING on it except for the film. Of course the film is the most important, but hello, we are talking one of the best superhero movies ever. No sweet deleted scenes, no making of, no hidden endings, interviews or anything.
However, if you can look past that, and think the movie is the only thing that you want(which should be enough!), this is an absolute winner. The Cover is simple, but yet it wields so much symbolic power that one cannot help but being impressed by it. 
I will give the movie 5 stars, but for the simple and poor DVD it gets down to a 4. Dont let it hinder you, this is absolutely one gem you WANT to have in your collection. Highly recommend the soundtrack too(the Score, not the one of Prince)