This dvd set is worth buying for one reason: The introduction of Lois Lane. Erica Durance and Tom Welling have fantastic chemistry. I was getting tired of the lana pendulum - too bad it's still going on in the current season. But, Lois provided a breath of fresh air after the extremely dark season 3 plots(the worst season of the entire series). The slow burn between Clark and Lois in this series reminds me of Sidney Bristow and Michael Vaughn in ALIAS seasons 1 and 2.

DVD Features:
1. Being Lois Lane Featurette
2. Writers Room Featurette
3. Unaired Scenes
4. Commentaries by actors, director and producers on Crusade, Transference and Spell
5. 22 episodes in anamorphic widesreen
6. Episode subtitles in English, Spanish and French
7. Booklet

Episode List:
1) Crusade: GRADE A ...Written by Alfred Gough and Miles Millar/Directed by Greg Beeman COMMENTARY by Erica Durance, Annette O'Toole, Alfred Gough and Miles Millar. The stellar introduction of the iconic Lois Lane to Smallville. WB and DC restricted the use of her character on this show until the release of "Superman Returns." This proved to be a huge mistake on the part of executives as the theatrical film proved to be a let down due to Lois being written completely out of character, Kate Bosworth's substandard portrayal and the lack of chemistry between she and Brandon Routh. Where the film failed, the series succeeded - by season 9 it became clear that Tom Welling and Erica Durance were THE Clark Kent/Superman and Lois Lane of this generation.
2) Gone: A
3) Facade: A
4) Devoted: A
5) Run: B+
6) Transference: B
7) Jinx: C
8) Spell: C
9) Bound: B-
10) Scare: C-
11) Unsafe: D+
12) Pariah: C-
13) Recruit: A-
14) Krypto: A
15) Sacred: C+
16) Lucy: B-
17) Onyx: B
18) Spirit: B-
19) Blank: D+
20) Ageless: FAIL ...Written and directed by Steven Deknight...This episode along with season 8's "Power" holds the shameful distinction of being the WORST EPISODE OF THE ENTIRE SERIES. This is where it became evident that the WB executive made a huge mistake in trusting Superman to Gough and Millar. The only thing they did right was in casting the characters - Lois and Clark in particular. But sadly, a good story from them was far and in between.
21) Forever: C-
22) Commencement: B+