**(CONTAIN SPOILERS)**

This series has an interesting concept and starts promisingly. It follows the story of a 17-year-old Sergeant Sousuke Sagara who works for an anti-terrorist military group called Mithril and is assigned to protect another 17-year-old, the most popular girl in high school, Kaname from some unknown dangers (Later we will understand why and who is targeting her). The funny part is our hero Sousuke was raised in the military, and despite of being an excellent soldier, he has absolutely no social skills.  In order to secretly protect Kaname from danger, Sousuke takes on an undercover mission by enrolling to Kaname's high school, you can probably figure out the rest by yourself, he then overreacts every little thing at school and creates all sorts of comedic absurdity, misunderstandings and troubles for the whole class, teacher and of course the hot-headed Kaname who especially can't stand his lack of common sense, later gradually develops a feeling for him.

That is the general introduction to the first several episodes and the show reaches its peak when Kaname finally got kidnapped and Sousuke went on a dangerous battle to save her. These episodes are thrilling and done pretty well; however, after this rescue mission is over; all the bad guys have been supposedly killed and apparently there are no more enemies will chase after kaname, the fun suddenly stops. The rest of the episodes seem to go backward by following the exact same formula from the beginning again.  Sousuke goes back to become the socially-retarded undercover high school student and continue to create comedic troubles for everyone at school even though his original mission is finished and the organization (Mitril) got no evidence to suggest that kaname will be targeted again. This part really disappoints me as the creator failed to come up with different and better concepts.  The plots should've moved on and been more creative about the future storylines instead of continuing relying on the same old jokes. Sousuke is a highly skillful Sergeant who works for the anti-terrorist organization, so why can't he be assigned to do another different or more dangerous secret mission besides going back to babysit that spoiled-little princess Kaname again? It's so illogical, unconvincing and wasteful for a talented soldier like Sousuke.

On top of that the creator failed to prove the connection between Kaname and the second mission, which begins from ep. 8-12. I mean why is she even needed in these episodes besides making the audience to see how she gets jealous and violent on Sousuke? The second mission doesn't even revolve around her and frankly we are forced to see more kaname's annoying temper than actions. I understand romance is part of the big concept in this series, but these episodes involved Kaname and Sousuke is neither romantic nor sensible. I guess its purpose is to create some childish comedic relief but let's be honest, haven't we seen enough jokes like this in the beginning episodes already?

Furthermore, I find it hard to believe Sousuke, a skillful soldier who is capable of mastering all sort of highly-advanced technologies yet has a hard time adapting to normal life. The jokes about him being the most clueless guy in the world are quite refreshing in the beginning, but his character never grows throughout the whole series, which is quite disappointing. Even a 5-year-old is able to learn a few things about life after his/her parents teach him/her; but Sousuke never learns and acts exactly like the same way from before in the end.

Lastly, the character Tessa has to be the most annoying one in the show. She is the 16-year-old Captain of Mithril, yet couldn't hold a gun to defend herself to save her own life. She's childish, prudish, over-polite, pacific and lacks of confidence. Although I have some problems with concepts like a teen leading a bunch of grow-ups in a military organization (I just don't buy it), my biggest problem is that the creator couldn't give us a convincing answer how could someone so weak could take up the position of the captain of the anti-terrorist organization. To me this position doesn't suit her one bit, but the creator tried too hard to prove she worths it, which shows in the filler episode (13) where a silly argument breaks out between she and Mellisa Mao, who then challenges her to an AS duel. The outcome proved to be less satisfactory and unconvincing rather than Tessa is a big crybaby.

The music and graphics score very high in this series. The opening and closing songs are very catchy and the drawings are quite beautiful, detailed and fluids. But that's about it.

All in all, although this series doesn't impress me much in many ways, I would still recommend this one to anyone who enjoys mecha, romance and slapstick comedy. However, I would not recommend it to anyone who ages under 12 since it contains moderate violence, mild profanity and some brief nudity. Make sure you watch a few episodes online before purchasing it.