Another former (I said FORMER! Did you hear me?) nerd checking in. I just watched this movie last night, and it may very well be my favorite film ever. Sometimes art is truer than fact, and "Dollhouse", while certainly not factual, rings very, very true.

Is this film awful? Yes. Is it cruel? Yes. Is it hopeless? Yes. Is it brilliant and funny and bizarrely resassuring? Yes. Reading the other reviews here, I'm a little worried I'm the meanest person alive, because I thought this movie was incredibly funny. I laughed so hard my stomach hurt. Dawn's suffering, and the suffering she inflicts on others, is completely unacceptable, yet it happens every day. What can you do besides laugh? Crying won't do any good either.

As much as I loved it, "Dollhouse" is definitely not for everyone. Here is a hypothetical question: is there some tiny part of you that finds the thought of a nerdy girl murdering her darling little sister with a hammer funny? No? Then stay far away from this film.

I hestitate to cover the actual details of the plot, first because they've been covered extensively already, and second because I think you should go into this movie cold if at all possible. In fact, stop reading this review and go see the movie immediately.

Still here? Okay. I will say that I sympathized with Dawn's sister, as much as I also sympathized with Dawn's dislike. Solondz is both gentle and merciless with his characters. You aren't protected from anyone's ugly moments, but at the same time, you know that they are doing their best, and you might very well do the same thing in their position.

The film, while almost totally without hope, still manages to be oddly reassuring. You can definitely see why Dawn is an outcast - she wears huge glasses with clothes a thrift shop would turn its nose up at, and has an overbite the size of Alaska. But at the same time, you can see that she's not ugly or worthless, the way adolescents often feel they are (and are often told they are). She just hasn't grown into herself yet.

I also strongly identified how surreal and adrift Dawn's experience was. Her peers are cruel beyond all reason (and yet, it's happening), and the adults don't have the faintest idea what's going on, even when she tries to enlist their help. The movie is completely unpredictable, which adds to the sense of rudderlessness. Dawn more or less takes everything in stride because anything, no matter how good or bad, seems possible. Becoming popular? Rape? DisneyWorld? It doesn't matter that it doesn't make sense, she is still living it.

The ending is awful, but unfortunately very true. That's all I'm going to say. See for yourself!