"Rollerball" is based on a fascinating short story by William Harrison called 'Rollerball Murder'. I recommend it, and the film wholeheartedly. If you've read all the reviews so far, then you know what the film is about. And the comparison of the game of Rollerball to gladiatorial combat is more apt than you might know, unless you are familiar with the histories of Greece and Rome. Greek sporting endeavours like wrestling and foot racing were about the triumph of the individual. Roman gladiatorial combat was about the need for and triumph of collective effort. Despite what Hollywood movies depict, gladiators rarely fought in single combat. They almost always fought in teams. The film "Rollerball" is a fine depiction of this stylistic conflict. The game was conceived by the corporate powers to prove the "futility of individual effort", and James Caan's Jonathan E keeps frustrating that goal by succeeding as an individual in the sport. He loves his team, and works closely with the other members, but they all come and go in their turn, and Jonathan E remains, season after season. The film has some subtle allusions to the classical conflict at the heart of the story. In a dinner scene, two men recline comfortably while eating, and the woman sits up straight. This was the dining custom of the ancient Romans.

Despite a now dated "futuristic" look, I think the film is incredible. James Caan's thoughtful, quiet Jonathan is a refreshing break from the typical pneumatic-muscled, testosterone drenched action heroes with their silly, ghoulish one-liners. '70's-era heart-throb John Beck gives an appealing performance as Jonathan's doomed friend and teammate, Moonpie. Moonpie is not today's sullen, spoiled, overpaid celebrity athlete. Instead, he is candid and exuberant, as if he can't quite believe his good fortune at being a Rollerball star.

My one complaint with the film is the setting; it was shot in and around Munich, Germany, and the idea that those lush forests and green meadows can convincingly represent humid, scorched Houston, Texas is asking a bit much.

Still, a terrific film, overall. The polished Houston Rollerball team packs a solid wallop, the New York team is scrappy, tough, and unrefined, and the elegant but deadly Tokyo team reminds me of Japanese Zero fighters zooming in for the kill.

Buy this DVD today. It has a great informative commentary track by Norman Jewison.