Human history is rife with examples of injustice in the name of progress. Rabbit Proof Fence examines the story of one such injustice. The movie is a tale of the fate of members of the "Stolen Generations", Australian Aborigines forcibly separated from their native culture.
This is the yarn of three young girls, Molly, Gracie, and Daisy born as half-castes in Western Australia in the early 20th century. Their fathers were white migrant laborers who had left the Aborigine mothers with mixed race babies. According to Australian law (the Aborigines Act) at the time, A. O. Neville was appointed as Chief Protector of Aborigines. Neville was endowed with the power to remove half-caste children from their families and send them to training camps to become more like the people of European descent.

The plot of Rabbit Proof Fence is that Molly, her sister Daisy, and their cousin Gracie are yanked away from their mothers in their native Jigalong and sent 1200 miles away to a camp called Moore River. The film follows the girls' escape from Moore River and trek back to Jigalong along the parts of the rabbit fence that dissected much of Australia at the time to protect farmland. Without giving up too much of the story, along the way girls meet folks of both races, for good and for ill results. The whole time Mollie and the girls are being hounded by a native tracker who works for Mr. Neville.
I watched the movie as part of a class I am taking on world religions. I chose Rabbit Proof Fence because I was interested in observing Aboriginal belief and culture in conjunction with the reading of my text book Living Religions (Fisher 2011).

Living Religions Chaper 2 describes indigenous spirituality as a lifeway. The Aborignal culture in the film appears to weave it's beliefs  into the way it lives as "every when", as mentioned by Fisher. In one scene, Mollie is told by her mother that a bird in the sky is her "spirit guide". Fisher's book speaks of the common primal religious theme of holy animals, "Trees, animals, insects, and plants are all approached with caution and consideration" (Fisher).  Mollie's spirit guide helps her when she has almost died in the desert and shows her she is close to home. Ritual singing is another way the indigenous practitioner connects with the spirit world (Fisher).  The women of Mollie's tribe in the movie know the children are trying to escape and are getting nearer home. They sing an apparently ritualistic song to protect and guide the girls back to Jigalong.

Today, again according to my textbook reading (Living Religions Chapter 13), all religions are under assault by globalization. Rabbit Proof Fence is a perfect example of the beginning of this assault on native beliefs. Here we see the concepts of white, supposedly refined and logical European thinking, attempting to homogenize and destroy Aboriginal culture.

This film is a fictional drama based on real events. As such, it is a powerful and emotionally moving story. It is well worth watching. You may want some tissues handy.