There's a lot of chatter about the content of this restored film, and while it's definitely typical of the kind of melodrama that pervaded big screens in the mid 1950's, it's true value can essentially be boiled down to a single element:  capturing for posterity one of the greatest talents ever to come out of the studio system; and at a time when her abilities were evolving into something spectacularly beyond just movie stardom - and that's saying alot.  Few performers have been as inconic as Judy Garland.  She's right up there with Marilyn Monroe and James Dean.  This film was a transcendant one for her and can single-handedly define her charismatic talent.
This Blu-Ray belongs in any serious film enthusiast's library.  It's a stunning evocation of the mid-century studio system - both in it's content - and from a studied perspective, as a business.  The transforming industry is epitomized in the expanded size of the screen, and the overwhelming technologies of the time reaching their peak.
There's an insidious notion of success here that's emblematic, and to have Garland's intensity at the center of it is remarkable.  Mason delivers one of his usual, superb performances as a nuanced loser, and is brilliantly able to keep up with Garland's sensational presence.  Cukor's direction, as always, has a humanist element that shines far beyond what the written page has to offer.  As for the musical content: it's simply jawdropping in it's flamboyance and power.  THE MAN THAT GOT AWAY is worth the price of admission on it's own!
This is a quality Blu-ray presentation.  It does exactly what it should and recreates the look of the original theatrical release.  The early CinemaScope lens flaws are intact; but then again, so is the rich, 3-strip Technicolor!  The original, 4-track, magoptical sound has not been tampered with, and offers the original panned-dialogue mix.  The stereo equalization sounds authentic.  As for the compromised restoration, it's better than the studio cut and flows easily enough to enhance the storyline from a character perspective.
This is a film whose historical value shouldn't be underestimated:  it was a groundbreaking musical, and a film that vividly evokes a sense of Americana - very much like George Steven's GIANT and Nicholas Ray's REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE did.