The first time I saw the trailer for this, I really wanted to see it.  As a fan of "Natural Born Killers," "Idiocracy," and "Falling Down," I was pleased that another of these films were being made, but I'm not entirely pleased with the outcome of "God Bless America."  The story is simple and at times, a bit far-fetched and convenient to the plight of the main character.  He knows that the things he hates are all around him, yet he refuses to change anything about his living condition, entertainment options, or his job.  He feels the only thing he can do is drink and commit suicide...or is it?  His sidekick in frustration, a 16-year-old, antisocial girl who looks like a younger Christina Ricci, is OK, but her love for all things to be obliterated gets really old.  I kind of wish he would have taken his own life because there really is no point in killing off a handful of people who don't subscribe to his version of being civilized.  It was good seeing cameos by Mo Gaffney, Larry Miller, and Tom Kenney, all comics who probably met director Bobcat Goldthwait back in his prime comedy years.  I hated the diatribe about Alice Cooper, but I loved the gag about the flaming rag falling out of the girl's gas tank (which the lead was trying to blow up).  The lead made me think of Phillip Seymour Hoffman in "Happiness," which is a good, creepy-guy role to play, in my opinion.

If you like movies about vigilantes who take out their agressions against the blind American society, this movie's for you, but it's pretty simple, and some of it feels forced and pretentious.  The inclusion of numerous modern targets makes it feel like an immediately dated film, even for the current year.  I grew up seeing Bobcat on TV, so it just felt good to contribute to his current project by renting this movie through Video On Demand. Goldthwait mentioned in a current interview on The Nerdist Podcast (#193) that he felt that the current attitude in society right now is one where everything has to be "extreme."  I disagree (in fact, everything is so boring and Disney-esque, compressed and marketed directly for certain groups), but I would say that I felt he made an extreme movie, which is exactly the thing to hate.  I'm still on the fence with this one.