I have just watched this film on Turner Classics and I was unprepared for its combination of breadth and depth.  It is a courtroom drama, but not limited to just the courtroom - the action takes place all across divided Germany.  It is 1948, the Berlin Blockade and the American airlift.  The film depicts the ever-present fear of the American military that at any moment the Soviet downing of an American aid plane might precipitate World War III, while the war crimes trials antagonize a German nation that now must be won over to "our side" against the Russians.

The chief American judge (Spencer Tracy) at a trial of Nazi jurists does not have the support of the American brass around him. After all, the lead Nazis have been tried, is it wise to continue?  As an American officer tells the chief prosecutor, played by Richard Widmark, "if Germany is lost, Europe is lost."

Against this broad canvas, over the course of three hours, Abby Mann and Stanley Kramer probe the dark souls of more than a dozen men and women and how they responded to great evil.  An astonishing cast - Tracy, Widmark, Burt Lancaster, Marlene Dietrich, Maximilian Schell, Montgomery Clift, Werner Klemperer and finally a heart-breaking Judy Garland - bring all these people to powerful or pitiable life.

Ruth Z. Deming in her review below writes that back then "we (Americans) were justly perceived as heroes, unlike today" when evil George Bush and Guantanamo ...  But the film is not at all silly and simplistic like that: this is a Cold War world, complex and difficult, in which any choice the Americans make can have dire consequences. Spencer Tracy's judge is told that Americans are now no longer popular in Nuremberg.  Lead defense attorney Rolfe (Maximiliam Schell) acidly comments that American's moral pretensions, after the firebombings and atomic bombings, are baseless. And Werner Klemperer's Nazi judge is confident that soon "the Bolsheviks will sentence you!"

This is a world, as Rolfe points out in court, in which Churchill had praised Hitler, Americans had sold him armaments, and Russia had signed a treaty to allow Germany to invade Poland.  And Mann and Kramer show that, only three years after the Holocaust had ended, America and Russia were on the brink of horrific bloodshed all over again...

(spoiler)

Even at the climax, when the least guilty and most distinguished of the German jurists, Ernst Janning (Burt Lancaster)finally accepts his guilt and complicity in judicial murder, there is no easy or sentimental ending.  Sentenced to life in prison, Janning desperately wants the respect and understanding of the American judge he has come to admire.  Chief Judge Haywood (Tracy) thinks highly of Janning's work and mind, but when the German implores, "you must understand ... millions of people ... I never thought it could come to that," Haywood cuts him right off: "The first time you sentence a man you know is innocent to death - it HAS come to that."

Yet Judge Haywood does not have the final victory.  The American brass do not really support him: there is no reason to antagonize the Germans. The lead defense attorney confidently bets Haywood that his sentencing of even the vilest of these villains will not stand - and a note at the end tells us he was right.

Intellectually exciting and morally troubling, this is a very fine film.