1, 2, hike goes the truth and here comes the sack! That is what Gary Fleder should have received for this dismal attempt at a docudrama. Gary Fleder's The Express, tells the story of an exceptionally talented young football player named Ernie Davis but fumbles the truth. He was born on December 14, 1939 and sadly died of Leukaemia at the age of 23, consequently denying him the chance to play Professional Football. Ernie Davis was the first African-American to win the coveted Heisman Trophy, for best college football player in 1961. Throughout his life he was surrounded by racism, the Davis family were also involved in the civil rights movement. These encounters toughened him up and shaped him into the ideal role model and ridiculously talented player he was.
  Even though the film is supposed to be about Ernie Davis (played by Rob Brown) a lot of the time he is cast to the bench as Ben Schwartzwalder (played by Dennis Quaid) the head coach of the Syracuse Football team takes over and calls the shots. Beyond doubt, Ernie Davis was a phenomenal young man, especially given what he accomplished (winning the Heisman Trophy as the first African-American) during the civil right's movement and in a relatively small amount of time.
  Despite being called The Express (Ernie's nickname was the Elmira Express) there is nothing express about this movie. It drags. What's more, the movie abuses its dramatic license and changes history. For example in the movie there is a scene where the Syracuse Orangemen play the crucial game of the season in hostile West Virginia in 1959. The home fans throw bottles from the stands and jeer at the away team in particular Ernie Davis and his other African American teammates. This is one of the most confrontational scenes, but this was actually a home game not away at West Virginia. The least Gary Fleder could have done was made the movie a bit more truth-based by changing this, since he decides not to emphasize the story of Ernie Davis.
  At the end of the day The Express gets derailed and fails to make it to the station at all. Viewers should be conscientious that it doesn't show how incredible a person Ernie Davis was. The Express should have focused more on Ernie by filming more of his life and how he accomplished so much. Instead of, benching him and letting Coach Ben Schwartzwalder seem like the chief reason Davis was so talented. By putting Ernie in the background this movie does not show his true character and confuses the audience since it is supposed to be about Ernie Davis. The movie becomes more of a clich&eacute; coach-centered movie instead of one that tells the remarkable story of a young man who accomplished so much in so little time. Director Gary Fleder could have added more substance to the movie by adding in more of Ernie's truth-based life story instead of the customary melodrama and unnecessary filler scenes. The movie could have also tried to do something out of the ordinary; instead they dramatize and shorten the achievements of Ernie Davis to put him in the background of the clouds of smoke coming out of the express train.