The word "classic" is thrown around a lot these days; we're expected to like something simply because some jamoke with a film degree tells us it's a classic, whether the film itself is actually any good or not.  So it's rare indeed to find a movie like 12 Angry Men that actually deserves to be called a classic.

Chances are good that you already know the plot, even if you've never seen the movie: Murder trial, 11 jurors think the kid's guilty, one thinks there's room for doubt, and he proceeds to spend the next couple of hours convincing the rest to see things his way.  He wins out in the end against overwhelming odds, everyone goes home secure in the knowledge that justice has been served to the best of their ability, and the credits roll.  I'm massively oversimplifying things, I admit, but that's the gist of it.  So why does this movie deserve to be called a classic?

For one thing, it's one of the few films of the 1950's to address the issue of racism, and although it's addressed somewhat obliquely (the characters never actually come out and say the word "racism," relying instead on somewhat less volatile terms such as "their kind"), the fact that it's addressed at all is noteworthy, to say the least.  Several of the jurors are convinced of the kid's guilt not because they seriously have reason to believe he did it, but because of their preconceived notions about his background: "He's a poor Puerto Rican kid from the wrong side of town, so he must be guilty.  QED."  Of course, other jurors reveal that they themselves came from exactly that sort of background, which forces the others--and, by extension, the viewing audience--to reexamine their world view.  The message may seem a little heavy-handed by today's standards, but for the time it was a revolutionary notion.  (It's also a message that bears repeating today; I'm reminded of the man--I use the term loosely--who was convicted of murder not long after 9/11, and his only defense was that "it's what every real American wants to do anyway."  The victim was a gas station owner from India whose faith required him to wear a turban.)

More than any of that, though, the film succeeds because of the absolutely unpretentious performances of the actors, particularly Henry Fonda as the sole dissenting vote.  He plays his character not as a man who is convinced that he's right and will fight to the death if he has to, but as a man who knows full well that "reasonable doubt" doesn't automatically mean the kid is innocent.  He's always aware that the kid may indeed be guilty, and even says as much at one point; but his conscience will not let him condemn another human being to die simply because he's been bullied into it.  The cause he's fighting for isn't just to protect the innocent, but to protect the sanctity of the process itself.  On the other hand, his foil throughout much of the film, played by Lee J. Cobb, is his polar opposite, his moral compass colored as much or more by his emotions as his sense of logic and reason.  He reveals early on that he's been estranged from his son for a number of years, and that estrangement (the defendant is around the same age his son was when they parted ways) drives his desire to find the defendant guilty even when he's presented with evidence that the kid might be innocent.  When he finally breaks down at the film's end, the result is a performance that will leave even the most jaded viewer with a tear in their eye; in an era when boys were taught from an early age that men don't cry, such a performance would have been almost unheard of, but it's delivered with absolute candor and sincerity.

The DVD release doesn't include much in the way of extras, just the original trailer, but that doesn't matter.  The film itself stands up so well on its own that anything else would just seem superfluous.