I just returned from watching the extremely highly anticipated (2nd highest anticipated film of the year behind October 10th's Kill Bill) Charlie's Angels Full Throttle.  As high as my anticipation was, I was bound to be slightly dissapointed, yet I seemed it unlikely, but boy was I wrong, I was very dissapointed.  The film is still curculating through my head and I'm still wondering if I really even liked the film that much at all.  Of course, I'll be watching it several more times to see how it holds up, but theres no way I'm beating my viewings of the first film (23 times in the theater)  These are some of the things I disliked about the film....
Bernie Mac-  I love Bernie, he is very funny and a lot of fun to watch.....but, he's gotta stop getting these kinda roles, Murrey's Bosley was a very well made character, he felt 2 dimensional, Bernie's Bosley (the Bosley's are brothers, somehow) is your average 1 dimensional token black guy, with a bunch of one liners that can usually be funny, but it doesn't make the character, Bernie is always getting garbage roles, for once I thought it would be different here, but it wasn't.
John Cleese-  John is also a very funny man, but in Angels he plays the father to the most unlikely angel, you guessed it (maybe) Lucy Lui, John is an englishman, Lucy is asian, what were they thinking?
Drew Barrymore-  There was so much fun with the Dylan character in the first film, but this time around shes all mopey and sad most of the time, lessening the fun.
Luke Wilson-  I'm all about Natalie having a man, and the relationship made many scenes in the first film so much fun, but this time around Luke's character is pretty much pointless.
the action-  I'm not saying I hated the action scenes, but none of them held the intensity and excitement that the first one provided even to this day, I love the action in the original.  They try every way to get the angels in as many action settings and outfits as possible, but it gets excessive and a little out of hand.  Although, I don't criticize the unrealness of the scenes, because they do get extremely unreal, and I expected that.
the story-  ....or lack of, which is weird cause woman just kicking butt for no reason seems to sound damn good, but I'm not saying there was no story, they kicked butt for reasons, but the story was......I really don't know how to describe it, of course there was a story but it wasn't even remotely close to the story in the original.
Demi Moore-  Sure, she was hotter than ever before, but being hot doesn't increase your acting abilities, and her bad acting really showed, which is weird because usually that doesn't bother me, but it was so obvious that it did this time.
the opening-  the first films opening is hard to top, but I was so sure they were gonna do it, but just like the rest of the film, very dissapointed.

Finally, the thing about the film that really [*] me off....Crispin Glover-  Creepy Thin Man is so mysterious, and such a great character, I was awaiting his arrival with much enthusiasm, SPOILER AHEAD.....Skip  paragraph if you don't wanna know, he first showed up in a dirt bike race with a helmet on, I knew it was him right away, later you actually get some history of the character, including a first name, then came the best part in the film, during a fight of a rooftop towards the end, Thin Man comes to the rescue, which results into the funniest scene, after kissing,  both Dylan and Thin Man have strands of each others hair in thier hands, Thin smells hers, then Dylan very awkwardly smells his.......then.......remember stop reading if you don't wanna know...........last chance...........okay, I warned you, Thin Man gets a swords (I believe his) through the heart from the back, since they are on an edge of a rooftop this makes him very far to his death.........sorry, believe me, I felt bad too, up to that point it wasnt as good as the first, but at least it was somewhat fun, and it didnt take itself too seriously, but killing Thin Man was a wrong move, and it really bothered me.