This is an excellent dvd for an excellent horror movie.  When I orginally saw this movie I was amazed and thrilled by the character  depth and delicacy achieved by the cast and director.  the cast, which is almost entirely limited to those living in the house, has  grace an clarity that you usually don't see in this genre.  This isn't cannon fodder, these are people. Ryan Reynold's performance is especially good to watch because of the subtle and slow shifts he is able portray in George's sanity.  The scenes between him and the kids are the some of the most intense scenes in the movie.

The DVD itself is one of the best put together DVD's I have, though I blame it almost entirely on the comentary from the producers and Ryan Reynolds you can toggle on for the movie.  Unlike most commentary it's horribly entertaining and insightful.  The dvd also includes some documentary type mini films on the making of the movie and, wonder of wonders, a rather superficial look at the the original DeFeo murders.  I wouldn't take that to seriously, but there is a seriously kooky legend tripper/paranormal expert who is fairly entertaining to watch.

Which brings me to the bits that other people have complained about.  The DeFeo murders are fact, I think the son just came up for parole this last September (2005), but as a previous reviewer stated the Lutz's story is almost certainly a hoax.  I could even take the "almost" out but I like it there.  The thing is it was a damn good hoax and it makes an even better story, a fact set off by resillance of people's belief in it.  As for the filmmaker's playing off of that belief, I can't blame them.  They're out to tell a good story and if they let people hold onto their assumptions it makes for better marketing.  Plenty of other people have done it in far more inappropriate situations.

And as for the the comments about the trampy baby sitter and the ridiculous extent to which Reynolds is ripped...I agree.  It doesn't quite fit with what we know about this family, but some how, you notice it, think it's out of place and then forget about it because the story is so beautifully crafted and wickedly woven.