There have been films in the past that have tanked at the box office and nobody saw them and that was the end of it. Then there are films that tanked at the box office, then slowly, over time, and audience grew and the films became classics that every household in the world new about in one way or another. This is one of those films. IT IS A CLASSIC. It is such an admirable, hilarious, inspiring and solid piece of story telling. This is a film you come out of changed (for the better). Elisha Cuthbert is sexy as hell and plays a very convincing character. She is the "Marty McFly" of the film in that, she doesn't change as a character, but the ones around her do. Bring in Emile Hirsch. His character is one that does change, his arc is great because he starts out as kind of a insecure nerd that wants more and by the end of the story he's a confident, successful, inspiring guy. This film deserves to be seen, but sadly, it wasn't. Making only under $20 million at the box office. Needn't worry, slowly, over time, this will be on the shelves with "Ferris Bueller's Day Off", "Caddyshack", "Animal House" etc. This is a comedy, but it is a comedy with brains and emotion. Sharpness and wit. It is rememberable (if thats even a word). It is a very similar "Risky Business" but with this one, you care for the characters so much more. And how many films, today, can you compare similarities to one another in some way or form! One actor of spectacular mention is Timothy Olyphant. He plays Kelly, probably one of the most hilarious and likable villains of all time. He's almost not a villain at all. He's just an awesome bad ass. Every single guy (age 18-25) that I talked to about that character said that he was their hero, and inspiration! and I agree.(Olyphant, you are the man). Another great mention is the capturing of high school life. The filmmakers really tapped into what high school was, better than any film has done before. I got all the memories back when watching the first 5 minutes. It's amazing. Whoever is reading this, please, trust me. I mean, the average star review for this film is 4 1/2 out of 5. Can we all be wrong? Really, this film is so worthy of watching. I've seen it 3 times and I plan to see it one more before DVD. Then it's mine forever, in the collection. AMONG THE CLASSICS (Where it belongs).