Well, they stole the guy's prize show car.  Oh, that's okay because they left a note and promised to bring it back.  And when they took it, they of course had to fish tail it down the road to see what it could do.  For the four young people in this movie that 'borrowed' the car I could sum up no sympathy what so ever.  Maybe they did not deserve what they got but they sure weren't some group of innocents.  On the other hand, how much did ole Rusty Nail care for his car?  After all, he does destroy it later in the film.  By the way after he destroys his car, you can clearly see that the left side of his truck is smashed in with the headlight busted out and then a few seconds later the truck is without a scratch and the headlight is working perfectly.  Hmmm.  Continuity problem?  Speaking of continuity, Bobby gets his kneecap busted in one scene and a moment later, he's all over the pain, rolling the dice again and then a few minutes later, he's limping across the desert.  What???  Anyway, despite unlikable characters who are dumber than dirt, this movie is okay for an hour and a half of mindless torture.  My real problem with this film is the way the four young people just did what they were told.  The finger?  Shoot, I would have seen through that one.  Melissa's little striptease in front of the truck?  Okay, at least the explanation for that made some kind of sense, I guess, but would anyone actually do that?  Sending Nik into the trucker's playground in drag?  Why not just cut his throat and throw him out of the car and get it over with?  What were they thinking?  Finally, my last problem with 'JOY RIDE 2' is the way Melissa handled that truck in the end.  She jumped in that rig and drove it like she'd been a trucker for 20 years.  Shoot, I would have had a hard time figuring out how to start a rig like that let alone drive it like a pro.  At least she has career potential ahead of her as a driver.  As far as the acting goes:  Well, you really don't pick up these type of movies for the great performances, but over all the cast actually did pretty well, especially Nicki Aycox as Melissa.  The bottom line is, this:  You could do worse.  This movie is not great and does not pretend to be great.  There are some scenes that will make you a little uneasy and make you squirm, but all in all, not a total waste of an hour and a half.  By the way, as other reviewers have already pointed out, there obviously is a sequel coming down the highway. And please: Don't borrow vintage cars without permission.