That One Night, Live In Buenos Aires (2007.), a Megadeth live concert DVD/CD release

Five years ago, Megadeth was a band literally rusting in peace. Frontman Dave Mustaine sustained a hand injury whilst in rehab. Unable to play guitar following this, Dave was forced to disband Megadeth. Three years later and Dave is back and Megadeth are ready once again to play their classic, distinctive brand of metal. After slowly reteaching himself to play guitar, Mustaine put together some excellent material for the band's comeback album `The System Has Failed', released in 2004. Teaming up with Canadian brothers Glen Drover (guitar) and Shaun Drover (drums) plus Iced Earth bassist James McDonough, Megadeth embarked on the Gigantour of 2005. The concert on this DVD is from right at the end of Gigantour 1 and was recorded on October 9th 2005 in Buenos Aires. Let me tell you this is no ordinary concert...

Megadeth hold something of godlike status amongst many in Argentina. The fans there are really crazy about the band (the DVD has footage at the start with fans following the band everywhere!) and give Megadeth an amazing reception at the concert. As you guessed, there is a great atmosphere throughout the concert which is really electric. What makes this concert extremely significant also is that Dave announces at the end that `We'll be back!' which told Megadeth fans worldover that `System Has Failed' and the Gigantour was not to be the band's swansong. The chemistry of the band on this live performance is excellent, Megadeth have really restored themselves to their former glory. The Drover brothers (who play on the band's most recent album `United Abominations') seem especially settled into the Megadeth setup and both perform excellently. Dave himself is a completely rejuvenated force and sings great and is back on form with the guitar after his injury. The concert set has some excellent selections plus some rarely performed Megadeth songs such as `Ill Be There' and `Coming Home'. Slightly annoyingly though is the fact that not all of the tracks from the concert are shown here. Dave did state that all 22 would be on here however we've only got 18 of them. Still though, the songs on here are fantastic. The DVD also incorporates some good exerpts of Dave and Glen Drover playing Megadeth songs on acoustic to a group of fans away from the concert venue, they get a great reception from the fans. In terms of bonus material there is a nice extra version of `Symphony Of Destruction'.

The whole concert is awesome viewing however there are some real standout moments. The performance of `A Tout Le Monde' is very memorable, with the crowd really getting into the music. `Ill Be There' and `Coming Home' are also two powerful parts of the set, again with lots of crowd participation. I personally enjoyed hearing the thrashy `Set The World Afire' and the stuff from the `System Has Failed' album was really hammered home strongly.

All in all, this (along with their 2002 DVD `Rude Awakening') is a must buy for any Megadeth fan. The band are in vintage form here and give a minted performance that more than deserves its place on this DVD. Megadeth's return to the fore has been remarkable and the band are producing some of their best work in years. I saw the band perform early this year in Bristol, UK and at the Download Festival, UK, where the crowd went absolutely mental! Megadeth are still hugely popular and are fantastic live. This DVD shows Megadeth in immense form yet again!

MY RATING: 8.5/10