Ohhhhhhhhhh my my my, what can I say about this one?  By the time it entered home video on vhs in late 1987, I was not familiar with Freddy at all except for the fact that I knew the premise....he can kill in your dreams and goes after kids and teens.  The fact that I was at that time only goin on age 15 did not help.  I was terrified of anything related to horror.  In my mind Freddy was the worst.  As a scared 15 year old kid, Freddy was the last thing I wanted to view.  I was watching films like, Raiders of the Lost Ark and The Empire Strikes Back.  Those I could handle.  However, in late summer of 1987, a friend of mine rang me up and told me to come over because he had a new movie he had rented that he wanted me to watch.  I asked him what it was and he wouldnt tell me.  All he said was that id be surprised and that id really like it.  So, I went over and he wouldnt let me see the title on the box.  He just slid it into the slot of the VCR.  Folks, I saw the New Line Cinema Logo and then this graphic,  "Sleep, those little slices of death.  How I loathe them....Edgar Allan Poe"  My mind started to reel but I had not yet realized what this film was; and then I saw the title, "A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3: DREAM WARRIORS."  Now mind you the closest I ever came to seeing this film was the wonderfully cool Dokken Video on MTV called, Dream Warriors.  I even had a hard time viewing the visage of Freddy in that MTV video.  Hilarious huh??  Anyway, when I saw the title come up, I grabbed my coat and I was getting the hell out of there and quickly.  However, my buddy begged me to give it a chance, he said its not as bad as I was thinkin and that id actually find certain parts of it actually funny.  Now I thought he was pullin my leg with that statement.  Even his mother told me id like it.  She had already seen it in the theatres and so had my buddy.  So, once I heard her reassure me as well, I decided to give it a chance.  As the opening of the film carried on I viewed the front cover on the box.  A vicious looking cover with Freddy's face leering over several teens facing him, appearing to stand on his out-stretched knives with a tagline that I find today to be one of the most creative taglines ever!!!  "If you think you'll get out alive, you must be dreaming."  Anyhow, suffice it to say, after experiencing dream warriors, I was instantly relieved and I was also an instant fan!!  I couldnt believe it actually because id sworn this character off.  I was terrified of him.  I suppose id have to thank my buddy Mike C. for that.  Thank you Mike for opening the door to this series for me.  Ive loved it ever since.  Ive seen all of them.  Many argue and argue over which film is the best, but Dream Warriors will always hold a special place in my heart because it was my first Nightmare and the first time I had to get ready for Freddy!!  :)  Hope you enjoyed my review.  By the way, I did laugh during my first viewing, and I also feel that poster art was the best of all of them!