Only a few films turn their unknown creators into stars with a Hollywood career.  There was Sylvester Stallone, who wrote and played "Rocky", 1976 Best Picture Oscar, his star turn a condition for allowing that script to be filmed.  Similar for Matt Damon and Ben Affleck, their original screenplay for "Good Will Hunting" winning a 1997 Oscar, both of them stars for playing the parts they wrote.  Stallone, Damon and Affleck never insisted upon directing themselves.

Billy Bob Thornton was more ambitious, directing, writing and starring in "Sling Blade", winning the 1996 Oscar for Best  Screenplay.

"Sling Blade" may not be for everyone's taste, irrelevant to me.  I'm here to review the Blu-ray.

If modern film creators wished to intentionally defeat Blu-ray high definition, they have a perfect model in "Sling Blade".  The story is about Karl, a mentally challenged murderer being released from state hospital, 25 years after he killed his mother and her lover.

Karl can't stand being in the light, so Director Billy Bob Thornton and other characters do everything possible to accommodate Karl, as played by Billy Bob Thornton.

Lighting goes from poor to even worse, both for interiors and exteriors.  No blue skies ever, entirely appropriate for such a dark story, just what Karl prefers.

Also lacking is "hard focus", which brings out the best in Blu-ray close-ups.  "Sling Blade" seems entirely shot in "soft focus", another blow against Blu-ray high definition.

I make no issue over this "Sling Blade" Blu-ray failing to display outstanding color and vividness, normally the mark of any modern Blu-ray in Technicolor.  Obviously Billy Bob Thornton the director filmed himself and his story in the appropriate manner for such a tale.  He couldn't have known his lighting and focus would improve relatively little in Blu-ray, a new format yet to be established when this film came out in 1996.  Doubtful if Thornton would have cared.

So among categories where Blu-ray isn't much of an improvement over standard definition DVDs, there is "Director's Intent", as demonstrated by "Sling Blade".  I will review films in other categories unfriendly to Blu-ray High Definition, including Black and White, Animation, and early Technicolor.

If you appreciate this marvelous, unique film, please lower your Blu-ray expectations.  I could be proven wrong by other Blu-ray editions of "Sling Blade", if brought to my attention as comments.  In that case I will change this review.