I was very excited to finally watch "The Graduate," and indeed I found it engaging, well-paced, and well-acted...until the last half-hour.  I found this last part, starting from where Ben goes to look for Elaine at Berkeley, contrived and a real disappointment.  It's almost like two different films put together.

Think about it:  Ben suddenly starts obsessing over this girl with whom he's had a total of *one* date with, then starts exhibiting stalker-like behavior toward her.  Implausibly, this actually works on Elaine, and she starts showing interest in him.  But instead of working on things like, say, getting to know her first, he instead starts pestering her about getting married immediately!  What's his deal?  I found him very creepy and unromantic during all this, and less in love with Elaine than unhealthily obsessed with her.  As for her, she's still in college and hardly knows him.  What's she thinking?

I guess all that setup is necessary for the generational showdown at the film's climax, when Ben drags off his love from her wedding ceremony with another man.  So it looks like the young people win the battle of the generations, but what is the message there?  Is it:  you older people can try to stop me, but I'll just take whatever I want anyway?  Ben strikes me as less of an non-conforming rebel and more of a self-centered and immature brat (no baby boomer jokes here, please).

Now to be really sacrilegious:  I love the songs of Simon and Garfunkel, but except for a few places, they don't really fit the directing style nor the content of this film.  And do we really need to hear "Sound of Silence" three times?

There are some great things about "The Graduate":  the directing and editing are excellent, Bancroft is amazing (the film needs her in the third act!), Hoffman is also very good, and their scenes together are the best parts of the film.  It's also very funny in a dry, British-style of humor.  It's too bad the film's final act had to ruin it for me.

I can see how this this film was embraced by an entire generation, but as a child of the 80s, not the 60s, it doesn't really speak deeply to me.  A comparably cherished film from my generation might be "The Breakfast Club."  Perhaps in 20 years, my kid will watch that film and have the same reaction that I had to "The Graduate"!