Very few 'superhero' comic books have been as intellectually engaging as Watchmen.  Zack Snyder deserves kudos for not only doing a great job of bringing the the graphic novel to life, but also for having the integrity as an artist to do it faithfully to the source material.  Watchmen could easily have been turned into a bastardized simplified movie for main stream audiences (which in all likelihood probably would have made for a bigger blockbuster success, potentially more well-received by the movie-going masses).  I'm glad Snyder had the conviction to make a legitimate Watchmen movie instead.

I hope that over time, the movie will get the appreciation and respect that it rightfully deserves.  Unfortunately, I think that the masses went into the theater expecting nothing more than a great popcorn/action flick.  Most people weren't prepared to pay close attention to a three hour long non-linear multifaceted plot that contemplates some pretty dark moral and philosophical issues.

As much as I enjoyed the movie in the theater, I also felt that some plot points were a bit rushed (despite the long run time) and the film felt disjointed at times.  Thankfully, the added material in this Director's cut does a lot to smooth out these kinks.  For the most part, the added material consists of extended scenes, with more dialogue.

SPOILER AHEAD...

The most significant completely "new" addition is the death of Hollis Mason, which really should have been kept in the theatrical version.

Although I've heard complaints that 'Tales of the Black Freighter' wasn't spliced into this Director's cut, I really think that the movie is better off without it.  Having already watched the Tales of the Black Freighter dvd, I think they did a great job with it, but its still better as a stand-alone.  It worked great in the context of the graphic novel, but would only be a confusing distraction in a movie that many people were already complaining was too long.  However, I do think it would've been great if 'Black Freighter' and 'Under the Hood' had been included as special features in the package.  Unfortunately they are not.

In summary, Watchmen is a can't-miss film, a brilliant adaptation and IMO, a great and under-appreciated accomplishment.  The Director's Cut includes some excellent added material that significantly enhances the film's continuity.