Arnold is a favorite target of jokes now that he's older and has slipped, but he had quite a run, whether you begin the count with Conan or with Terminator. He was some moneymaker. And you can't find a better hero for a sci-fi thriller. Who else has those eyes, or that gaptooth or that accent?
I consider the original Terminator to be slightly better than the sequel T2, which no doubt gets added help from its ground breaking, and still astonishing special visual effects. (Come to think about it, how far has ILM gone after Robert Patrick's T-1000 in "Terminator 2"? Not very far. You have Mystique from X-Men and that clunky CGI Hulk. Even Mystique is just a revision of T-1000.) Terminator gets my nod for the original story, which not only changed the way we average folks view reality (a phenomenon that must have inspired a few grins from physicists who understood Einstein), but also inspired such movies as "Back to the Future" and "Matrix". 
What else do I like about Terminator? Like all those classic surprise hits, it wasn't made to actually become a classic, with its creators expecting little out of it. You know, like Casablanca, the first Star Wars, Blair Witch and Funny Cide (the horse).
I also like Terminator because Arnold was a villain, and he had always been better as a villain, whether as himself in "Pumping Iron" or as Mr. Freeze in "Batman and Robin". Or as the Terminator.
There's something almost supernatural about the scare factor of this cyborg. It's simple, brutal logic (I don't know how Sarah Connor looks like, so why not simply knock off everyone named Sarah Connor?). Its very concept, a robotic assassin that passes itself off as regular guy, is scary. In Kyle Reese's flashback, when an unnamed terminator penetrates the humans' lair and wreaks such havoc Reese loses Sarah Connor's picture, there was the fleeting moment where Reese sees the terminator through the flames, its red eyes flashing, almost something out of a horror movie, a vampire or a werewolf, a ruthless, unstoppable monster. And of course, those naked terminators, shorn of their human skin, prowl like an army of skeletons, eyes in their sockets relentlessly seeking human prey. We've always been fascinated by things that could eat us ("Jaws", lions, crocodiles, vampire movies). The Terminator was such a one.
When the police department shootout commences, you cannot help but cheer for the Terminator, at the back of your mind perhaps those glorious Westerns that had the hero fighting a whole gang of evil gunfighters singlehanded, or Toshiro Mifune in "Yojimbo" facing similar odds. You cheer, but it's the bad guy you're rooting for. This guy was cool.
But the best thing I like about Terminator is it doesn't apologize. Nor does it pretend. Compared to the sequel, which drowned in the young John Connor's (Edward Furlong) brimming political correctness, the original Terminator movie was a shin breaker. It doesn't just rock, it's a rock.