What the hell is this? How the hell could this inspire anything? This is crap.

Romero begins his "dead trilogy" with this piece of crap. Then follows it with another piece of crap. Then follows it with another piece of crap.

It all starts with a trip to the cemetery. This is where Romero shows just how terrible the actors are. Our main female character, Barbara, is a pathetic woman who's brother is too childish. He says, "They're coming to get you Barbara. They coming for you." What was Romero thinking when he came up with this?

The whole movie takes place in some tiny house in the middle of an empty field. Inside this house, a dead woman. During the movie, about twenty zombies (who don't go to the mall) wait outside. Why don't they go inside and attack the people? Because the lead male character throws a burning chair outside. This scares the zombies (for some reason) and keeps them away from the house.

Now the acting in this movie is not too bad. Just kidding. It's terrible. Especially the females. I know there were better women actors out back in the sixties. Barbara tries to recreate the "tragedy" the occurs at the beginning. When she says, "He grabbed me." She actually starts grabbing herself. Then she says, "He grabbed out my clothes." She actually starts grabbing her clothes and pulling on them. It's ridiculous.

Romero decides to have a pathetic scene where the characters try to gas-up the truck. This is where Romero shows off his terrible writing by having the zombies fear fire. Zombies don't attack the people because of the fire. Ridiculous.

The worst part about all this is that it fails to be funny. I know Romero was trying to be funny, but he failed miserably. The jokes are terrible. The actors he hired were not meant to be in comedies. Every time they told the audience a joke, it just came out as stupid lines of dialogue.

This crack-head had no idea how to film a movie, and he still doesn't. Let's all wait for his fourth peice of crap that he pulls out of his a$$ and molds into a film, just so we can laugh at it.

Oh, by the way. I recall someone saying that Romero has an original idea going on with his fourth film. Last I checked, he had a vehicle in it called the "Dead Reckoning". It was a bunch of armored busses. Sounds like a recent zombie movie. Doesn't it? Then idiots will try to tell you that Romero wrote the script first, so he didn't take anything. That's wrong. The original script for the remake of Dawn was written in 1999. Romero didn't write his script for his fourth dead film until 2001. Seems to me that they have been trying to get the remake of Dawn made longer than the time Romero's been trying to get his fourth film made.

The most disgusting thing of all is that people in the sixties "flocked like birds to this stink bomb."---Matt Perri. He's one of those people that say that nobody can compare "28 Crappy Days Later" to zombie movies, but anybody can compare zombie movies to "28 Crappy Days Later". Yes, that was a qoute from the remake of Dawn, but I wanted to give him credit because he said it first. Yep, he does comapre "Dawn 2004" to "Days", even though he has said you can't compare them. He does it anyway.

Can you believe. You Romero fans are e-mailing me. You don't see me e-mailing anybody. Even if they call a movie a like the dumbest thing ever made.

OH, and all you people that say the original "Dawn" is good because it is about "consumerism". Does that mean if I do a 2 hour movie about a leaf growing on a tree, then following to the ground, it should become a "classic". Right? That what you guys are saying with the original "Dawn". It was about "consumerism", it was stupid. I got into an argument at school with my Spanish teacher who used to work at a video rental. We were talking about the original "Dawn " and the remake (this was during class. Everyone in the room was listening). All he would ever go back to was the fact that it was about "consumerism". That's it. Whenever I got him, he would say the original was about "consumerism", and the remake was not. This means, to me, that if one were to do a movie and make a metaphor out of it, then one would get lots of money. That's what Romero fans did with Romero's films. He made a metaphor, and you liked. That doesn't take away the fact that his movies are boring, cheesy, stupid, pathetic, idiotic pieces of crap he pulled out of his as* and molded into a film. I make a movie about a leaf falling to the ground. First we watch it grow for two hours, then it falls. No acting, no script, No CGI, no visuals, nothing, but i'm making a metaphor. I'm saying that we are all leaves growing on a tree until our time is up, then we fall on the ground. It should be a classic. Right? That's what Romero fans did with the crappy "dead trilogy". Hey, they call it a "dead trilogy" for a reason. It's dead. Let it go. Romero sucks.

E-mailing people you don't know. Is that what Romero fans like to do to pass the time?