First of all, I will admit that the cinematography of this movie is great. You watch it and simply get carried away by the beautiful colours, the great frames the directors chose as well as the great portrait shots of the actors. Nothing can be said to negate this fact; and if one actually watches the Criterion version of the movie, then all the better as they have done a magnificent work at remastering this film. I have some very very minor issues with it (that I will get to towards the end of this) but these are too minor to affect my overall opinion of the restoration work.
I am afraid that's where it ends with the positives. Despite the great cinematography, the film is an utter bore. Nearly half of the film is a documentary on India, where we get a female narrator (it is actually one of the characters of the movie) presenting us with life and the various local customs in India and keeping the plot in the background. It feels like the director forgot that he has to shot a story and started walking around India, shooting scenes of everyday life. Again, remember that the cinematography is great - but so is the cinematography in a BBC or a National Geographic documentary for that matter - this is a MOVIE!

Then, at some point after all this pointless wondering around, we get to the first interesting moment of the movie: the main male character is introduced. And our screens are getting filled up with this guy, who is supposed to carry the film forward. And the guy looks like anybody, acts like nobody and makes me wonder: "is that the best they could come up with?". The director (or the producer or whoever else was responsible) made a huge error in casting.

OK, so we don't have a great cast. Do we at least have a story? Hmmm, no. Nothing special there as well. Just ordinary people, doing whatever was ordinary for them to do back in that part of the world at that time, locals again doing the same thing. Dialog: flat, uninteresting. Characters: uninteresting. Drama (you know, that thing that theatre and movies are all about): in one or two scenes and that's it. Moral: India is an interesting place and there are some people living in it.

Of course, *when* the movie was made, it brought the culture of India on the silver screen. And lots of Europeans (and maybe Americans) got to see it and be exposed to it, which must have been interesting in its own right. But today, it is not the same. We live in a globalised world and most of the things this movie presents to us are common knowledge. This is why the documentary aspect of it diminishes its value today to such an extent.

Along with that of course, I think that the director simply got carried away with his love for India and there was probably no one around to moderate this (or he felt independent enough and he wouldn't listen).

This movie is perhaps seen as a masterpiece because it comes from a great director. However, I think that it is one of his weak pieces of work and pretty weak overall.

Proceed with caution, no cinema magic here.

PS: My only nag about the Criterion remaster is that occasionally the colour balance was fluctuating a bit on several sequences. You would see a bit more "blue" or "green" entering for a few frames and then back to the original colour balance. This is mentioned merely as an observation and NOT as a criticism. I can very well appreciate what Criterion has to do to achieve this quality and truly respect their achievement.