I saw the film on home video. I was really impressed and learned some stuff. This is so far the only  animated Disney film that I have greatly appreciated. Why? Because I believe that this was their first video that is not only for young kids but for everyone.  It rejected many of the Disney traditions, like singing in some parts of the film. That's also one of the reasons because I really didn't learn to appreciate their old "tradition". Dinosaur was a big make over! Even my whole family loved it!  The visuals were absolutley impressive and the best I've seen so far! The story and plot were impressive as well. It really gave me the idea what it is like in the cretaceous. It's not like Jurassic park, well, it proved that dinosaurs are killing machines, but humans and present day technology were involved so it somehow changes the atmosphere. And in Land Before Time, no humans were involved but compared to Dinosaur,  Land Before Time has too many childish content, I really didn't like that one. Dinosaur however, really has showed the viewers that life long ago was filled with ultimate hardships and violence. The movie also shows actual eye to eye scences of death, and it proved that long ago is not what it seemed.  The voice actors and actresses were great! The voice of Sweeny fits the traits of the Iguanodon, Aladar.  Woodard's voice and the others were as good as the one I'ved mentioned. One thing that I want to thank Disney is that they made the dinosaurs talk. At first I though they didn't because when I saw a short preview of it in Disney channel, I heard no voice, just roars and growls. Them talking helped me understand the situations, what they feel, personalities and what they are like in the inside. Otherwise, how could anyone get even a bit of the story?  I also loved the Lemurs!  Anyways, I loved the movie! Thank you very much Disney!
I have an answer to why some people like this movie or not. It's because people have different "tastes" when it comes to movies. One thing, I know for some of the viewers, some expect complex plots. In my opinion, life long ago isn't suppose to be complex because the only thing creatures work on is "survival"