In recent TIME magazine article movie critic Richard Corliss listed both of Otomo's major movies Steamboy and Akira as among the top five animes available on DVD. My interest in Akira arose from my viewing of his newest movie Steamboy and all I heard about Akira being THE anime movie.

The one thing that stands out about Otomo is his ability to create two movies with 180 degree difference in ambiance that deal with the same underlying issue of the consequences of man trying to invent breakthrough technologies when his fallen state prevents the proper use of this technology and the catastrophic consequences of this failure.

The main plot of Akira, if you can call it that, centers around two members of a biker gang, Kaneda the leader of the gang and the younger brother type figure Tetsuo, that run rampant on the streets of dystopic post-apocalyptic Neo-Tokyo. Neo-Tokyo borrows heavily from Ridley Scott's vision of LA in Blade Runner with magnificent sky scrapers and neon but on the ground level is a city clearly in chaos with a seedy underbelly. Neo-Tokyo is run by corrupt politicians and is the subject of terrorist attacks from groups claiming to be fighting inequality and poverty caused by some "tax reform". The only thing keeping a resemblance of order in Neo-Tokyo is the military lead by Colonel Shikishima who exhibits the militaristic traits of pre-World War II Japan. The only sign of spiritual life in the city is a cult movement proclaiming the current order will be destroyed by the re-appearance of a messiah like figure named Akira. Tetsuo gets involved in an accident when a bizarre blue skin withered child appears. The military swoops in to take the child and Tetsuo away. Tetsuo is sent to a military hospital where his inactive psychic powers are awoken by medical experiments. He meets two other blue skin children who also have psychic powers. These children are analogous to the pre-cogs characters in the Phillip Dick short story adopted by Steven Spielberg in Minority Report.  Tetsuo uses his new power to escape from the hospital and starts to go on a bloody gory rampage through neo-Tokyo acting out on his resentment of life and him playing second fiddle to Kaneda. Kaneda along with the Colonel, the three pre-cog children, and a female terrorist name Kai try to stop Tetsuo before he awakens Akira and destroys Neo-Tokyo. The ending has to be seen to be believed.

Akira has been elevated as a cult classic in the US. Akira is considered the movie that propelled anime to the popularity it currently enjoys in the US. This movie represented a radical departure from the cartoonish TV shows like Speed Racer and Astroboy that were the only exposure Americans had to that time to anime. What propelled Akira's popularity was its kinetic often violent and bloody energy, mind bending plot, dystopic atmosphere, fluid animation, and tackling of metaphysical issue. There are some scenes in Akira that seem to be straight from the mind of a Salvador Dali in its surrealism. One thing to always keep mind is all the action one sees was done using hand drawn animation. Akira's has been a major influence in more mainstream movies, for example the Matrix trilogy.

Otomo's vision of Neo-Tokyo is amazing but after experiencing Ridley Scott's vision of LA I did not have the same sense of awe and curiosity. Almost all the characters in Akira are derivatives of some anti-hero and the high level of disturbing violence and surreal images in this movie taxes you. The experiments that led to Tetsuo becoming a psychic monster and the creation of Akira was an attempt to harness "the power of god." I was reminded of Dune where the Bene Gesserit through selective breeding created the Kwisatz Haderach. Otomo spells out in the movie that the energy and knowledge from the moment of creation is genetically hard wired in every living being and this power can be unleashed with the use of science. Such Gnostic type theology is very unnerving to someone raised in a Catholic tradition although I can understand Otomo being Japanese sees nature and divinity much more tightly integrated than someone raised in the Western tradition. Another philosophical statement Otomo was trying to make was the cyclic nature of history with periods of destruction followed by reconstruction and renewal. Once again such a view of history is very different from the linear tradition in the Judeo-Christian West. The main overriding message Otomo delivers is how scientific advancement inevitably falls into the wrong hands sometimes by the scientists themselves who do not consider the ethical impact of what they are doing. The result of this human failure is wonton destruction. Of course, this suspicion of science is seared into the Japanese psyche from the dropping of the atomic bombs on Japan. Otomo argues that the only way to avoid the destructive consequences of technological advancement is to retain a child-like innocence. Otomo seems to subscribe to the 60s statement about not trusting anybody over 30.

Does Akira deserve its place as a cult classic? Yes. This is one of the most original animation films in history. Did I find this movie an emotionally pleasing experience? No. My reactions to Akira is analogous to how I feel about modern art. With its kinetic energy and surreal images Akira can be considered a piece of modern art on film. The last time I was back in my hometown in the New York metro area, my mom and I went to the recently re-opened Museum of Modern Art (MOMA). As I walked around the galleries, on an intellectual level I can understand why the pieces displayed are important, how they represent feelings of angst in a world ravaged by two world wars, the elevation of materialism over the spiritual, the subconscious over the rational and how they represent a break with the past. But try as I may, I cannot connect to these pieces and Akira on an emotional level. Maybe you can call me a reactionary but when I experience the fine arts I want to be uplifted or be part of the world envisioned in the art. Otomo's Steamboy in its romanticism and nostalgic Victorian setting does that for me but the violent tormented Neo-Tokyo does not. There is enough angst in today's fast paced world where I have no desire to experience more of it in the fine arts.