Season Three of the long-running primetime soap opera Dallas featured quite possibly one of the busiest television seasons ever and featured what is called the greatest cliffhanger in television history in the final episode.

Of course throughout its run, Dallas was known for having great cliffhangers, but in season three, the writers and producers really hit the nail on the head. To someone who was watching the show in 1980, the final scene of the final episode of season three probably came as quite a shock. I knew what was going to happen and I was still a little taken aback. That's what great television is all about.

And season three completely plays up to that moment right from the start. With all the lying and cheating and backstabbing that take place, the writers are building viewers up so that when the big moment happens, it seems justified, yet at the same time, still comes as a shock.

The shooting of Ewing Oil president JR Ewing (Larry Hagman) created quite a buzz in the television world and when it was revealed who shot him near the beginning of season four, that episode ranked as one of the top-rated television shows of all time. But surely just about everybody would say that JR deserved the bullets.

In the age of the Internet and all other forms of information, even though I have never seen an episode of Dallas beyond the first three seasons on DVD, I know who shot JR, but I still will buy season four and get the inside track on just what he or she was thinking when pulling the trigger.

Season three certainly ran the gamut of emotions, with no time to stop and catch your breath. It began with the two part story about the kidnapping of JR and Sue Ellen's (Linda Gray) baby, John Ross Ewing III. With suspects aplenty, the Ewing Oil magnate's first thought turns to his brother in law, Cliff Barnes (Ken Kercheval) who may or may not be the baby's father.

When the youngster is finally returned to the family, Sue Ellen becomes cold and detached from the child, while Pamela Barnes Ewing (Victoria Principal) grows attached to the child after losing a baby of her own in a horseback riding accident. Sue Ellen continues to grow detached from John Ross and an affair with Dusty Farlow, who's family would come to play a huge part in future seasons, and trips to see a psychiatrist just estrange her more. As the season ends, the entire Ewing family is concerned about Sue Ellen's drinking and JR is ready to commit her to the sanitarium, much like he did in season two.

Bobby (Patrick Duffy) and Pamela Ewing have an up and down season, as they lose a baby and also have to deal with the fallout between her brother Cliff and the Ewing family. After Pamela loses the baby, she grows very attached to John Ross, which upsets Bobby as he wants to have a baby of his own. But unbeknownst to him, Pamela is scared that a disease she may carry could affect her child. She goes on a search for her mother when it is revealed that her father Digger is not really her father. As the season winds down, Bobby and Pamela are leaving Southfork after another of JR's schemes pushes Bobby over the edge.

Ewing matriarch Miss Ellie Ewing (Barbara Bel Geddes) faces a battle with breast cancer, which forces her to get a masectomy. She keeps everything to herself as she is afraid that the change in her life will stop her husband Jock (Jim Davis) from loving her. Jock also faces a tough fight from Miss Ellie when it is revealed that he was married before he met her and divorced his wife when she developed mental problems. Jock, JR, Bobby and ranch foreman Ray Krebbs (Steve Kanaly) go on a hunting trip that finds them being shot at and JR and Jock's lives at stake thanks to Jock's business tactics many years earlier when he still ran Ewing Oil.

Young Lucy Ewing (Charlene Tilton) is enrolled at college and starts dating a lawyer named Alan Beam (guest star Randolph Powell) who JR is using to set up Cliff Barnes. Lucy dates the young man mainly because she thinks JR hates him, but secretly, he and JR are working together to get Cliff out of the Office of Land Management. They become engaged as JR hatches a plot to get Lucy out of Dallas for good, but his plan backfires when Jock gets Alan a job in Dallas. Lucy also gets to spend time with her parents, Gary (Ted Shackleford) and Valene (Joan Van Ark) who also spin off into their own prime time soap opera Knot's Landing, during this season.

And of course JR. His biggest storyline of the season is his mortgaging of Southfork to finance oil wells in Asia, wells which strike it rich and become a boon for Ewing Oil. But nationalization of the Asian wells sends JR scrambling to sell off most of his shares to his "Business partners," who in turn are dealt a staggering loss, giving any of them a motive to shoot him in the finale. He also has an affair with his wife's sister Kristin (guest star Mary Crosby), who plots with Alan Beam for revenge, giving both of them, as well as Sue Ellen, who he is planning on sending to a sanitarium, a motive to shoot him. It seems JR had a lot of enemies. No wonder the ratings were so high for the who done it show.

As for extras, this set has a couple of good commentaries with Linda Gray and Patrick Duffy, including on the "A House Divided" episode, the final cliffhanger at the end of the season. There is also a featurette on the show and its popularity, particularly in dealing with the cliffhanger of JR being shot.

All told, this was a great follow-up to a solid releas of the first two seasons. I never watched this show on television, mainly because I was too young, but I am thoroughly enjoying the episodes on DVD.