Woody Allen may never have reached a greater height of personnal achievement than in Manhattan, a rhapsodic urban poem of human relationships in tangles,  of love, friendship and betrayal - Allen's world has never found a more beautiful or eloquent expression.  More literary in structure and design than Allen's earler efforts (the script was knocked in to shape by Allen's co-writer Marshall Brickman), yet less derivative,  the picture is funny without being trivial and serious without being portentous.  Allen's decision to shoot in black-and-white removes the picture several levels from reality, and New York becomes a beautiful but de-humanised backdrop against which the human relationships are played out.  Allen plays Issac, a 42 year old author with two ex-wifes and a seventeen year old girl-friend, Stacy,whom he is considering dropping in favour of his best friend Yale's neurotic, intellectual mistress ( played by Dianne Keaton).  Althogh Allen's characters gravitate towards moral and ethical certainties they can't bring themselves to commit to them fully. It is the admission of of such ambiguity in human relationships and his exploration of them that has always elevated Allen above the level of a humorist - in his own words the picture is about "trying to lead an ethical life in a city  de-humanised by drugs, violence and fast-food." And there is genuine tragedy here in Allen's moral tug-of-war over the legitmacy of his relationship with the seventeen-old Stacy (played with heart-breaking sweetness and honesty by a young Mariel Hemingway), whether or not he should also be in love in with his best friend's mistress and indeed in the relationships of all the characters who struggle earnestly to find a connection that is emotional, physical and intellectual.  There is humour to, but always at the service of insight rather than at its expense.  Sumptuously shot in a down-at-heel 1970s New York, Allen's thoughtful framing immortalises much of the imagery - the picture's most famous image of the figures of Allen and Keaton looking out over the East river under the oppressive shadow of a collosal bridge is at once both romantic yet isolated and cool.  It sums up both Allen's views on the city and his character's relationship to it. Thoughtful use of Geroge Gershwin's songs and concert pieces bathe the black-and-white images with a nascent warmth which has a sense of yearning and nostalgia to it.  The DVD, transferred from a print much in need of cleaning, marrs some the visual impact of photography, but characters and situtations shine out from the somewhat jaded images to convey Allen's uniquely humanist standpoint in its most potent form.