I'll cut to the chase: Do yourself a BIG favor and get this DVD. Even if you've never considered yourself a fan of Talking Heads, "Stop Making Sense" is worth watching and will probably give you an appreciation for  band that you never had before.  That's just what happened to me. Until I  saw this film I was under the impression that Talking Heads was just  another quirky art-punk outfit, perhaps because of their association with  the early days of CBGB's in New York City. My few exposures to Talking  Heads' music back in my college years (1977-1981) frankly left me  scratching my head.
 In retrospect, however, I think the demise of  this band leaves a void in the world of popular music that may never be  filled. Talking Heads created some of the smartest, funkiest sounds in the  first half of the 1980s, and this film shows them in their finest form.  Much of the credit goes to director Jonathan Demme for focusing our  attention on the band and David Byrne's wide-eyed stage presence, while  tipping his hat to the audience only at the end of the concert.  Occasionally Demme comes up with a shot that is so utterly sublime in its  balance and power that the viewer can only whisper, "Wow." Credit also goes  to Byrne for the minimalistic set design and the particularly clever touch  of assembling the set (and the band, for that matter) during the first four  songs. And extra-special credit must be given to some of the COOLEST backup  musicians (Steve Scales, Edna Holt, Bernie Worrell, Lynn Mabry, &amp; Alex  Weir) I've ever seen onstage. "Stop Making Sense" is unarguably the best  concert movie ever made.
 My partner Greg &amp; I first owned this  film on VHS, but the DVD is so much, MUCH better! The blacks are BLACK, the  reds are SMOOTH, and the transfer is just as crisp as you please. The  optional audio commentary by all four members of the band is a wonderful  feature and an education about this band unto itself. We have shown this  DVD to many friends of ours, and almost invariably they come away with a  much deeper appreciation for Talking Heads. It's great that the four  members of this band could put aside their differences long enough to  collaborate on this DVD release. Now if they could just regroup for ONE  MORE ALBUM .....