Two soldiers patrol the beach at the edge of an island.  A motorboat drops off a single passenger, a woman.  She introduces herself to one soldier, then tells him that he will escort her around the island to collect the residents' votes.  It's election day.
The soldier is unhappy with this arrangement, and demands to see his orders.  His orders state that an "agent" will arrive to administer voting, not a woman!  None too happy about a requirement that he serve a female boss for one day, he obliges.  He insists on carrying his gun, because without the gun, he gets no respect.  The woman insists that he leave the gun, because citizens should be "free" to vote.  
The pair encounter various unusual citizens on the island, including a rural encampment where a baby is being born, a solar energy station (?) which is tended by an old man, and a camp ruled by a woman called Granny, who refuses to see the vote-takers.  Along the way the woman engages her escort, and several of the potential voters, in debates about why and how people should vote.  
One of the better episodes involves a man who brings about a dozen women to vote, then claims he will vote for them.  Another involves a trio of voters who truly want to vote, but the candidate they prefer is not on the list of approved candidates.  
Secret Ballot is an Iranian film from director Babak Payami. While not on the level of such Iranian movie masterpieces as Abbas Kiarostami's Taste of Cherry, or the films of Mohsen Makhmalbaf, Secret Ballot is worth a viewing.  It is a slight and modest film, but thoughtprovoking, and, at times, beautiful.  
The pace of Secret Ballot is leisurely at best, plodding at its worst.  Often, scenes are ill conceived or seem to drag on beyond any possible entertainment or educational value.  Still, the movie is beautifully shot, and the conversations between the female agent and male soldier are worth the price of a rental.  This is a rare look at a life most westerners will never see, and that is what makes Secret Ballot worthwhile.
ken32