Oliver Stone at his best.
According to Stone, the US spent vast fortunes helping the El Salvadorian oligarchy to suppress (or a better word might be slaughter) the El Salvadorian peasants.
'Salvador' is a thoughtful depiction of the atrocities committed by the El Salvadorian oligarchy and the suffering endured by the peasants during the El Salvadorian civil war.  Salvador's script juxtaposes materialistic and self-involved dialogue (some of which was apparently improvised by the neurotic germophobe James Woods) throughout scenes that convey the bullying slaughter of unarmed peasants, women, men and children, young and old.  Some of Woods and Belushi's banter is Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David-esque.  According to literary theorists, this split between subject (in 'Salvador' the slaughter of peasants) and tone (Woods and Belushi's self-involved minutia) is a common technique in 20th century high art, a technique that makes the author appear more objective and not caught up with sentimentality.  In 'Salvador', this ironic juxtaposition allows us to invent the rage at the US backed atrocities against the peasants ourselves, rather than having it forced down our throats.
  The film is even more valuable given its context.  On the British version of the dvd 'Salvador', the El Salvadorian Civil War is discussed in a documentary called 'Into the Valley of Death'.  In particular on the documentary, the man who was US ambassador to El Salvador at the time of the slaughter, gives revelationary testimony of the US mainstream press's suppression of the reports that told of the atrocities.  This former US Ambassador to El Salvador seems to be a man of the utmost kindness and integrity and his reports are shocking.  He asserts that several tens of thousands of peasants were slaughtered by the oligarchy.  He verifies the genocidal self-interest of Reagan's US government, and he verifies that the disturbing footage in the movie is based on the kind of events that he knew was common.  He also states that every scene in 'Salvador' accurately portrays the situation - every scene he says, except one, where his character in the movie is seen eventually capitulating to his US government colleagues.
  Even if you are already sceptical of US propaganda and self-righteous US governmental language like 'good versus evil' and 'enemies of freedom', you will be shocked by what you see in the movie.
  Salvador will grip you.