You step into a bar, sit on a stool, take a wiff of the cigarette laiden air and listen as a woman croons the sorrows of hard livin'.  This is, in essence, the nature of Cowboy Bebop.
  Cowboy Bebop is likened to a flower in terms of story, each episode is self contained, (with the exeception of Jupiter Jazz and The Real Folk Blues) but with the extraordinary grace of words and cinematography with each episode the flower blooms a little more until the blazing conclusion in which it blooms only to wilt seconds later.
  The basic premise in this story is rather simple - take a Bruce Lee lovin' bounty hunter with a mysterious past, a responsible friend that gets the party out of trouble, a beautiful woman with an equally egotistical attitude, and genius hacker and mutt and put them together and see what chaos ensues.
  However, where other shows have failed, Bebop succeeds with cleverly written scripts (VHS is an 'ancient artifact') well paced subplots, and well developed characters.  We leave the series with a bittersweet taste in our mouth, but not angry or confused because there were unanswered questions.
  The soundtrack deserves a special note as well.  Bebop mixes Jazz, Funk, and Blues to produce a memorable score that you can't get out of your head.  Yoko Kanno and her band, The Seatbelts, produce some of the finest quality of Jazz and Blues I've heard recently.  From the ethireal Green Bird heard in episode five, Ballad of the Fallen Angels, to the funky, offbeat opening theme Tank!, Cowboy Bebop uses music to enhance, not ruin, the mood.
  Voice acting on both sides are delivered extremely well, which only hightens my praise for Bandai's treatement of this series.  Upon switching from dub to sub, viewers may find Faye's voice a little too high, Jet's a little rough, and Spike's a little off.  This shows how exceptional the dub is, for very few can saw that the dub is comparable to the sub in many series.
  You leave this series with a nod, a glance of understanding, because that's how Cowboy Bebop is.  No long goodbyes, no extended melodramatic moments, just life and its trials.  You either overcome them or fail; there is no middle option.