The movie is a five star movie, without a doubt, the best Biblical production I've ever seen; especially those covering the life of our Jewish Messiah, the Savior for all peoples, God's Son, Jesus Christ.  It covers my favorite Gospel, and does so absolutely stunningly.  Others on this page have had great comments to this end, and I concur wholeheartedly.  My primary focus for the remainder of this review will be on removing confusion from the minds of other shoppers who have seen the Visual Bible project's "Gospel of John," have had trouble acquiring it, and wonder if this is the same production, and would like to know before they plunk down the cash.

The quick answer is "Yes," this is the same movie.  It was $50, now it's half-priced.  Buy it Now!  Although I cannot tell from the technical details if it includes the exact same material as the original 3-disc set (I imagine the menus & end credits will be revised), if it holds to the word-for-word mission of the Visual Bible project, then it is the same 3-hour feature presentation.

You may have seen this movie on shelves in mid to late 2004.  You may have wondered what this movie was like, 3 disc set about Jesus for $50, you never know what you're getting into with these....(Take the popular "Jesus of Nazareth."  Could they have made Jesus look any more miserable and self-centered in his own bitterness?  Well, that didn't happen in this movie, probably the most realistic caricature I have seen of Jesus since "Jesus (2000)" and the video to Michael W. Smith's "Secret Ambition (1990)."  Ok, I said I was going to focus on confusion for shoppers, let's continue)....Maybe you watched the movie, fell in love, ran to buy a copy, only to find it had been yanked from the shelves, sent to "The Movie Graveyard;" and even the sales associates who shared this information were puzzled, "That normally only happens to Disney Movies."

After hours of searching on the internet, the truth unfolded; for various rea$on$, the Visual Bible project ran low on re$ource$, and DI$NE¥ (yes, DI$NE¥-who owns Buena Vista distribution), threw their hat in--presumably in a bid to improve relations with the conservative customer contingency.  They apparently plan to continue the Visual Bible project's mission of bringing the entire Bible to film, from what I've read.  The Visual Bible, already begun with the Gospel of Matthew, the Gospel of John, and Acts of the Apostles, now has a good prospect for completion.

What does all this mean for consumers?  Well, to recap:

1) You now can buy these for half the price previously offered.

2) Disney may rediscover their own strong conservative roots.

3) There is a good prospect of the monumental project being completely finished at a high standard of quality.

4) Disney's marketing experience and market presence will mean more people than ever before can experience the Good News ("Godspell" and later "Gospel") the Jewish Apostle John shares with readers of all nations; what we call today the "Gospel of John."