For me to give 5 stars for anything - is not common. This survey of the history of the United States ranks among one of the best and leaves little excuse for not being in every parent's DVD library.  Here are some  of my reasons for recommendation:

1.  Everywhere I look it is priced well below what you would expect($20 at Sam's just yesterday, $22 here, delivered).

2.  The digital visuals used throughout are second to none.  It holds the attention of viewers of all ages.

3.  The reenactments are well researched and expertly presented.

4.  The narration is well done also.

4.  As an educator I know that if you are going to put something on the big screen - it better be as entertaining as it is educational.  This is it.

5.  There is an excellent free teacher's guide on their website.

The negative criticisms about this DVD although may have merit, should not stop anybody from buying it.  Simply put, you can't please everybody all the time.  Here are the two major complaints I see:

1.  There are commentary opinions put forth by actors, poets, political figures, educators, historians and even professional athletes that some viewers may disagree with. So what!  That's what America IS all about.  Freedom to dispute.  These are points to discuss while watching with your kids or students.

2.  Key events are covered in extremely short periods of airtime or not at all while others are given center stage for arguably too much time.  I say it's a survey and if you don't like it - as a consumer, augment it with what you believe is more important.  If you want to study World War Two, for instance, I highly recommend the 1974 <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0002F6AH0">The World at War (30th Anniversary Edition)</a>  It's over 22 hours long.... Given when it was made - no series tops it. (By the way - it used to cost well over $100)

Bottom line - buy 'America: The Story of Us' and watch it with your kids.  In the classroom - I have students asking to watch more of it.  Do I need to say more?