OK, don't know where all the anti-Shatner stuff is coming from.

Yes... Bill Shatner has a way of coming across as "bigger than life"... or, perhaps, "more self-serving than life", in some people's eyes. OK, fine. I actually do get that.

But... I just watched this film, and it is absolutely NOT an example of that.

Mr. Shatner does, indeed, tell a few stories, in EXTREMELY abbreviated form. But about 99% of the the time, he lets the other "captains" tell _their_ stories.

Which is, actually, both a blessing and a curse... yes, I want to hear these stories of the "other" captains... in fact, the damn movie was TOO SHORT... these stories were too short. EACH "captain of the Enterprise" could easily fill an entire movie with their feelings and anecdotes, and I would, quite gladly, buy them all. It was a blessing, I suppose, that, despite reviews to the contrary, that Shatner dominates... except... he just doesn't. He doesn't at all. Which is the "curse" part. Who wouldn't want to hear Bill Shatner REALLY telling his tale of Star Trek... not the stories we've already heard... not the sanitized and (probably) altered and, even, mainly made-up stories, but the REAL stories?

Bill Shatner meets with the other actors who played captains on the various incarnations of Star Trek, and asks them insightful, meaningful questions... and those actors actually answer, in meaningful and insightful ways.

What more could you ask for?

I'll tell you what... bear with me...

It was GREAT. I LOVED it.

The one thing missing was... Shatner. Being just as insightful and open and as forthright as those he interviewed.

Shatner didn't dominate this, not at all. I do not know where those comments are coming from. I just watched this, literally. And Shatner was a part of it, of course. But this film was NOT, in any way way, a Shatner ego-trip.

Truly, the one thing missing from this film... the one "captain of the Enterprise" we DID NOT hear from, in this film, is.... the original Captain Kirk himself, William Shatner.

So... despite others intimations that this is a "Shatner self-love" film, I respectfully disagree completely. Far from being a "Shatner ego-trip", this was, truly, Shatner being an interviewer at his best.

And while he got some great, in a few cases truly inspired, responses from the other "captains", what was honestly missing was... the Shatner captain.

A "Shatner-fest"? No. Simply, no. It isn't.

Perfect? No. Simply, no, it isn't.

Why? I'll tell you why. Three words: TOO DAMN SHORT.

You can not... you CAN not... adequately interview that many actors, all who have played such a pivotal role in such a time-honored series, in less than two hours... 12, 15, 20, maybe even 40 or 50 hours... MIGHT start to approach filling the need... maybe.

And we didn't even BEGIN to get William Shatner's views. That might take 10 or 20, or more, hours by itself, if an interviewer as insightful as Shatner himself was doing the interview.

But what made it to the final print of this film is... truly, quite excellent.

And... I'll say it again... far from being a "Shatner ego-trip" as others have said, this film is barely about Shatner at all. It just isn't. He's the interviewer -- and he stays, almost completely, in that role.

OK... way long review. Fine. Summary: EXTREMELY pleased with this, although it was too short and, in the process, gave NONE of the actors a proper stage for telling what we all want to hear. Anyone interested in this will be both thrilled and disappointed, because you get to see them all, and hear from them all, and none of them get a real chance to talk. But I do, totally, recommend it.

The biggest thing missing, other than about 10 hours per Captain (which we really do want to see and hear) is, we don't get to hear from SHATNER'S captain... a sore lack. The REAL original. The one EVERYTHING else is based on... and we hear very little, indeed, from him, in this film.