I had been hearing and critiques on "Something New" and this is the first movie featuring a Black American Women in a realtionship with a White American Man, I did not see the movie because I personally thought  what about movies like 'Eraserhead' or Rosanne Cash and Stacey Keach  in the 1970's or many british movies on the subject. To me this movie seemed like a 'get back' movie at Black Men who either..

1. dating  white women
2. on the dl
3. are irresponsible
4. take black women for granted
5. sexist black men

After people telling me that it's not the case and it's a movie that's not bashing black men but telling black women to seek more options than an "Ideal Black Man". I decided to wait until the overhyping of this movie ended by it's female actors, director, and producers and movie critics hailing this movie as a great ' racial breakthrough' (lolol) for Black Women. I have finally seen the movie and my reivew that it's a well acted but predictable romatic drama about the same subject that's starting to plaque black movies in the last 10 years. Black Movies used to feature just ghetto sterotypes are now doing the same thing but it's now the Black Middle or Upper Class who can't find love but usually it's Morris Chestnutt, Taye Diggs, and Jamie Foxx. But unlike those black leading men the 'white knight' is actually white, Simon Barker (land of the dead) is the landscape owner who Sanna Lathan falls for in this predictable romp.

As her friends and others encouarge her to pursue this relationship, her IBM show up in the quise of Blair Underwood (in a solid but wooden performance) Kenya (Lathan) reacess her realtionship with Barker after some friction on race (how typical of hollywood) after Underwood is so driven by his job and not Kenya, the talk of tolerance by her pops and the ending at the cotilion with the Lathan running to Barker at the end (doesn't that scence look like Spiderman 2)with Lathan learning that Black Women should expand their options especially for professional black women.

I could say this movie is some social breakthrough, but there is nothing in this film that is artisitc, there has has been movies that focus on the subject that are better than "Something New'. If Black Women want to date IR just do it, but don't con me with a film that is average at best, and don't insult my intelligence. Its a chick flick and for Roger Ebert (who is married to a black woman) to say this movie has social impact is insulting to films that have actually done just that.Something New would be a good T.V. movie of the week on LIFETIME but it's not a major motion picture.

P.S. To the Black Women and White Males sending me negative vibes show me a movie about Mixed Realtionships that are better,more realistic than Mississippi Masala than the black female writers and producers 'wet dream' of a movie then I  will believe it. The ending of this movie was unrealistic AT IT'S BEST.In real-life (not kriss turner's fantasy) Black Female/White Male realtionships the couple lives the white male's life and social interests not dancing at predominately black social events Kenya's a black upper class woman in a segregated black elite and would not even consider someone like Brian as part of her social circle or does a 150 years of black elite social conditioning is thrown out the window? Frankly BF/WM are intergrated into mainstream society. Black Women in those relationships are like pro black ballplayers, "Honoray Whites" and have all privledges. White Women (or other ethnic groups) who are married to black males are more connected to the Black community than African- American Females married to white males.