When this concerts begins with no Ritchie you can see who puts the Deep in Deep Purple. As good as Jon, Roger, and the Ian's are Ritchie is still the most gifted musician of the group. Unfortunately for them he knows it. Fortunately for us we get to see this family drama unfold right before our very eyes. With interviews about it no less. Nobody really says why Richie was so POed but this is what I've pieced together from the interviews. At one point Ian Gillan says that Ritchie told him Eric Clapton doesn't know how to play guitar. Then Gillan acts like Ritchie must be crazy to have that thought. He probably is a much better guitarist than Clapton who didn't get the name slow hand for no reason. Ritchie probably hits a 100 notes in the time it takes clapton to hit 50. I like EC but he has definately slowed down from his 30 minute solo Cream days. How do you judge who's better. My criteria would be who could play the other persons music with the most ease. I'm sure Ritchie could play anything Clapton ever did note for note, but I don't think Clapton could even come close to Ritchie on songs like Lazy or Child In Time. So in the interview Ritchie tells Gillan that Clapton stinks and didn't get the response from Gillan he wanted. Maybe thats why Ritchie Glares at him on a few occasions. When Ritchie enters the scene 2 minutes into the song he is looking for blood and has to settle for water. The first thing he does is throw a cup of water on the cameraman. For whatever reason Ritchie is playing like he has something to prove. Like he is mad at the world and is taking it out on his guitar. I've seen Purple on many occasions and I know when Ritchie is for real or just going through the motions in just another concert. He means business here. Not to focus all the attention on Ritchie but he is the straw that stirs this drink. Jon, Roger, and the Ian's are all better than average musicians. Although Gillan was losing his instrument to time even back in the 70's. He should lower his vocal range now and stick to the octives he can still hit. He doesn't preen as much as he did in his hey day but a least he still has his hair. Roger seems a little on edge from Ritchies late arrival and says in the interview that he was furious with Ritchie. Roger said one of the video producers told him to act natural for the camera. I can imagine if some snot nosed video nerd tried to tell Ritchie to act natural for the camera and to be confident he probably got shown the door pretty fast. Plus a shower of water later no charge. Thats just my theory anyway. Jon said he was angry and sad at the whole Ritchie episode.Very diplomatic. You can see him and Ritchie signaling each other during solo's and bridges. They are still very in tune with and in charge of this band. Just like they have been from beginning. Once the classic rock phase lost its luster Jon's influence was not felt as much, but his presence and Organ prowess are a irreplaceable part of the mix. The other musicians can come and go but as long as you have Jon and Ritchie there will always be a Deep Purple. So if you want to see a band on the edge walking the tight wire in public this is for you. Ritchie has never been better. If you want to see another old fart that hasn't lost a lick on voice or guitar check out Todd Rundgren in San Francisco. Another guitar player that can play rings around Eric Clapton. With songs that go zoom not chuga chuga. Purple Power To The People!!!