Afro Samurai brings to mind many classics of Japanese-American pop-art, such as Lone Wolf and Cub (the path of the doomed samurai killer) and Samurai Jack (the quiet taciturn samurai on an impossible quest...in a world that blends the ancient and the advanced), to mention the two that jump out at me.  The animation and art are fantastic and unusual; despite the strong anime influences, I initially thought it was American due to the strong resemblance to the work of Peter Chung (Aeon Flux) and even The Boondocks animated series (another possible influence).  However, I have since discovered that this is a Japanese production that was dubbed into English.

The dubbed dialog is a mixed bag.  The translated script is perhaps the most convincing I've ever heard, although the delivery of the voice actors falls a little short.  To be honest, I thought Samuel L. Jackson is a bit of a ham-fisted choice.  He works better in his duties as Ninja Ninja than as the titular Afro.  Jackson doesn't really know how to do "reserved" in a convincing fashion.  Ron Perlman is mostly wasted as Justice.  He shows up only at the beginning and end, and he's doing a bit of a weird semi-Southern accent.  None of the voice actors truly stood out for me.

The characters themselves are a bit flat, mostly props for the incredible action and thick atmosphere.  The script doesn't give them any room for development, but to be fair, this isn't the kind of story where everyone learns something and goes home a little wiser.  That's fine.  It's tempting to condemn Afro Samurai for being an empty exercise in flashy style, but I think there's a little more to it than that.  The themes of the uselessness and tragedy of violence and revenge are intriguing, and sometimes powerful.  This is inevitably undermined a bit by the glorification of violence in the many gory and lyrical action set pieces.

As for the style, and the art, Afro Samurai is pretty much impeccable on all counts.  From RZA's score to the creepy Japanese puppet-type cyborgs, this show hits all the right notes...sometimes, too well.  When it is too tasteful, polished and stylized, it can lose a little bit of its soul, not unlike its various old men and cyborgs who have sold themselves for power and revenge.  Afro Samurai isn't perfect, but it's damn entertaining.  The atmosphere, art, action and dramatic themes almost overcome its occasional shallowness.