Guy Ritchie's entire reputation is built on one incredible film, Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. Then he did a pretty fair knock off (read: weaker imitation) of that movie, Snatch. Then he married Madonna. Then he produced nothing but crap for years and years. Now, Madonna-less, he has returned to his roots for yet another stab at the testosterone driven gangster flick. Unfortunately, as a stab, it is merely a flesh wound.
I don't care what you read in the other reviews, at least give this one some consideration. It seems that some poor folks, desperate for another ride on the lightning, have deluded themselves into squeezing this square peg into that round hole. Tricking themselves into thinking that this film is good because they want it so badly to be. And there are some flashes of old Ritchie here, but mostly it feels like kinder, gentler, recycled Ritchie. The characters are not interesting or engaging. The dialogue is barely clever in it's best parts. Aside from a pair of very persistent Russian killers, the movie has little to no humor at all. The violence is mild. The plot is a watered down rehashing of the "coincidence" crimes of Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. The ending is sloppy, unsatisfying and held up only by the promise of a sequel. "Oh, but there is lots of cursing and some people get shot, it MUST be good."
Who knows, maybe Ritchie has mellowed with age. Or maybe he just couldn't be bothered. Because, whereas his first movie was tighter than tight, this flick just seemed lazy. Cashing in on a rep while delivering a deeply cut product.
And while we are on the subject of laziness (and crime), maybe Mr. Ritchie doesn't realize how widely viewed and well remembered Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction" movie is here in the states or he may not have borrowed so heavily from it. Come on, the central plot device of RockNRolla is a painting that the film never reveals but is so impressive that everybody desires it and mayhem and destruction follows it. Maybe it is a painting of Marcellus Wallace's soul. Just start with that main "homage" and look for other plot devices and scenarios that were gently lifted from PF (including a modified "gimp" scene). It isn't sampling if the actors have accents.
Right?