A Nightmare on Elmstreet is a horror movie classic and its antagonist, Freddy Krueger, the ever charismatic son of a thousand maniacs is one of the best movie villians to ever be created. When I saw this new remastered version on Amazon I just had to buy it, and I am not disappointed. It is true that some of the horror masterpieces of yesterday may be somewhat neutered with its grainy roughness cleaned away, but not so with Nightmare. This crispness only highlights and brings new depth to the dreamlike surreality. Some of the its most legendary scenes (the demonic wall stalker, body-bag Tina,etc,..)are even enhanced giving them a almost painting like quality, reminiscent of a Fuseli painting.

The special features are pretty interesting and informative as well if not just a little redundant after awhile. Let me explain. Disc one has the movie and a few options as to how to view the film. First, and I foremost recommend for all nightmare fans, is the infinifilm version, which is just a fancy way of saying interactive movie. You watch the flick a prompt will come up telling you to push a button and get more info about the scene, the actors, inspirations for the movie, and even alternate footage. Next is the commentary, which to me is the worst aspect about this version of the movie. You'v go two versions to choose from (I have not heard the archival version, this is about the new one) the problem is that this commentary really doesn't follow the movie but kind of just retreads the information given during the infinifilm version, with alittle bit more added here and there.

The second disc basically collects all the infinifilms together as a series of featurettes. There are also trailers and alternate endings, which also look to be remastered, and a trivia game that should be pretty easy to master after watching all the features.

Overall, with its new remastered sound and picure quality, this feature pack installment of A Nightmare On Elmstreet is a great buy for both fans of Freddy or for those who like horror (real horror, not the modern day CGI fluff) but may not have indulged this series as of yet, this is a good version to initiate yourself into the nightmares of elmstreet and become a victim of Freddy's evil charm.