"Eyes Without a Face" (also known as Les Yeux San Visage) is an excellent and brilliant movie from it's time.  Made in 1959 in Italy with French actors, the movie details the life of how deep a father's love for his daughter parallels the depth of his ongoing madness for redemption, forgiveness and hypocrisy.

Pierre Brasseur plays Doctor Genessier.  Doctor Genessier is renowned for his brilliance in the medical field and takes great pride in his work.  In this film, like any father, he is dedicated to his job, but his true love is that for his daughter, played by Edith Scob (Christiane Genessier).

Doctor Genessier, prior to the movie's opening, was in an automobile accident which left his precious daughter's face marred and disfigured.  Distraught over this, the entire film focus's on his quest to fix her, all-the-while following a road that is harmonic to that of a mad man's.

Christiane is mostly seen wearing a white mask which was made for her.  She is unhappy.  She doesn't seem to leave the mansion and often spends her time either crying or snooping around to see what her father is up to.

Her father's trust-worthy assistant, Louise (played by Alida Valli) always seems to be scattered all over the place, often luring young girls to help in Doctor Genessier's master plan to help Christiane's face back to normal.

Louise, who is a very creepy woman (and who, by the way, reminded me of the Wicked Witch of the West from "The Wizard of Oz", simply because whenever she'd appear on screen, the same music would come on, letting the viewer know she was on the make), assists Doctor Genessier in abducting girls so that he can remove their face to place onto Christiane's face to make her normal once more.

Christiane seems to long for death.  She does not want to be part of this hideous plan and wants to have a life of normalcy.  She misses that part of her life where she could be herself.  The part where she was engaged to be married to Jacques Vernon (played by Francois Guerin).  Often, she would call him and not say a word, simply to hear his voice.

Without giving more of the story away, the movie focus's on the three central characters and the costs of trying to undo what can't be done - and that is, to turn back time and fix past mistakes.

The movie is nothing sort of iconic and brilliant and is a must-see for old-time thrillers.  The acting, perfect!  The setting, well done!  The ending, truly freeing and satisfying.