As I get older I watch BULLITT more and more. The movie is both calming and stimulating because of its unique pace, its often clinical quality, and Steve McQueen's restrained acting.

True, Lalo Schifrin's music is dated, especially at the beginning of the car chase, when Schifrin uses clucking saxophones and a trombone choir. (By 1974 in DIRTY HARRY Schifrin had learned to use synthesizers.) But this doesn't harm the movie seriously.

Peter Yates achieved some very subtle effects, not meant to be noticed by the casual viewer. For example, when Bullitt makes his visit to his girlfriend's place of work, he goes up a staircase with a striking blue bannister against a white background. At the corner of the stairs there is a statue of a headless woman. This is a clear allusion to Antonioni's BLOWUP, in which the antique shop had several statues of women without heads. Also, at the airport, there is a telescope, apparently for people to watch the planes come in, and its distinctive red and green color is very reminiscent of Antonioni's RED DESERT (1965), in which industrial pipes of bright colors are seen.

Other effects are simply beautiful, and derivative of nothing. After Stanton has been shot in the Hotel Daniels, he is taken to the hospital where both he and Johnny Ross are being treated for shotgun wounds. The camera pans slowly across beds and carts full of medical equipment, all out of focus, until the worried face of Stanton's pretty wife is seen in clear focus. Bullitt is looking down at her with a sympathetic smile. The sudden transition is startling and very well done.

Another excellent effect: Bullitt pursues the killer into the basement of the hospital. Bullitt is moving slowly past the beds and hospital equipment in the dark, and we see the killer hiding behind a pillar. The killer runs away, and Bullitt ends up in a small room with a window. Suddenly he hears a loud crash. A pile of laundry has been thrown down the chute into this, the laundry room.  A second pile of laundry comes down with a crash to confirm the effect.

My wife used to say she found BULLITT completely incomprehensible. This would not be true if one accepts the simple premise that Johnny Ross hired a car salesman named Albert Renick to impersonate him in San Francisco so Ross himself (having stolen $2 million from the Chicago mafia) could escape the country.  Ross arranged for two hit men to kill Renick, and later killed Renick's wife himself in her motel to keep her from talking.

But there is the subtle suggestion that Chalmers (Robert Vaughan), who hired Bullitt to guard Ross in the Hotel Daniels, has a secret arrangement with Ross himself. Why is the hotel room so exposed? Windows without curtains show traffic on the freeway outside. A more private room could have been chosen. "Stay away from those windows," Bullitt admonishes Ross.

Just before the hit men arrive, Ross (Renick) unlocks the door himself to let them in. They shoot Stanton in the leg and kill Ross with a shotgun burst to the head and torso. Before they shoot, Ross (Renick) says "No, wait... He told me..." -- Who told him? Ross told him? Chalmers told him? Told him what?

Later, when Chalmers blames Bullitt and his men for allowing Ross to be shot, Bullitt asks simply, "Who else knew where he was? They knew where to find him, and they used your name to get in." Chalmers, in high dudgeon, asks, "Are you saying I disclosed his whereabouts?" Well, perhaps Chalmers did. That is, if he had an arrangement with Ross about Renick. An arrangement which the movie never states openly.

Another contradictory moment: at the airport, when Chalmers already knows Renick and his wife are dead, Chalmers says to Bullitt, "He's still my witness." This is absurd, because Ross is at that moment on a plane trying to flee the country, with no intention of testifying at all.

So there is food for thought here, about Chalmers, about Ross, and about Ross's arrangement with Renick. The entire scenario may not be what it seems.

It is this complexity of the story, along with Yates's filmmaking skill, that make BULLITT one of my favorite thrillers.