Dracula has been the subject of numerous films. While many of them are  memorable, of many actors who have played Dracula only two stand out as  truly superb in their performance of the role. The first one is  unmistakably Bela Lugosi who played the role in this 1931 film. While  Lugosi's film portrayal has the drawback of being terribly out of date, now  that more than 60 years have passed since, his magnetic appeal can still be  sensed thru this release. (For those who are interested, the second truly  superb actor is of course Christopher Lee, who unfortunately had to play  ol' Drac to death in way too many Hammer movies. And Gary Oldman was good  too but maybe a little over the top in Francis Ford Coppola's version.) TOD  BROWNING's DRACULA was a hit in the early thirties. We can still see why.  The film is said to have been restored but very little of this shows, as  there are still plenty of signs of wear on the print used for this DVD.  However, all the extra's more than make up for that. It is wonderful to be  able to compare Bela to his Spanish speaking competitor, Carlos Villarias.  Equally interesting is the comparison between Browning's direction and the  direction of the Spanish flick, helmed by George Melford. Melford's version  has the technical superiority, which cannot be denied, but Lugosi himself  is more enthralling in his performance. (I feel a little uncomfortable with  the Spanish version as I simply cannot help chuckle at hearing the changed  names of Juan Harker and Eva instead of Jonathan Harker and Mina.) Again,  the additional information due to special commentaries by David Skal, film  historian, Carla Laemmle and Lupita Tovar, and the wonderful photographical  montage added make this DVD extremely enjoyable and this not just for  classic movie buffs. A note for Philip Glass fans: while Glass's new music  score is very interesting to hear, the Kronos Quartet is unfortunately not  adequate to the task of bringing the full range of Glass's thematics to  life. That is very unfortunate for it makes the new score sound cheap,  while it would have been great if it had been performed by a full  orchestra.