IF I had never read the Ya-Ya books by Rebecca Wells, I MIGHT have been able to view this movie on a stand alone basis and been completely satisfied with the several major plot points put forth by the screen writer to portray this huge cast of characters, strung over several generations and many years in the complex extended family swirling around ViVi Abbott Walker. Many of the major cast members were represented by actors as children, young adults and in older versions of adulthood -- not with makeup but with completely different actors in each part.

I am the first to admit that it would have been a gargantuan effort to boil 60 years of living into a two hour movie. The fact that the movie is at all comprehensible says a great deal about the talent of all those involved in it's making. And I commend them for the effort....but.... 
The saga of the Divine Ya-Ya Sisters should have been a 12 part TV mini-series. That is really the only way to get to "know" these complex people and do justice to the whole Ya-Ya experience. 
That having been said, how was the movie? I liked it a lot, with reservations. Sandra Bullock, Ashley Judd, Ellen Burnstyn, James Garner, Shirley Knight, Maggie Smith, Fionnula Flanagan and the truly divine Angus MacFadyen anchor the story in place and keep it moving along. The presence of such a "first-rate" cast assures the viewer that this was a serious attempt to tell the story and not just a way to part the viewers from their money at the box office. The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood has been a cultural phenomenon for a number of years. Several million readers of the book(s) were excited, delighted and maybe just a little apprehensive to see how the tale would play out on the screen. 
I can only tell you my opinion but here it is: As a reader of the books, I still had a bit of a time keeping up with the back story and can only wonder whether someone unfamiliar with the clan wouldn't have become hopelessly lost in the twists, turns and flashback format of this version. A few of the plot devices (a red airplane instead of Lawanda the elephant) I understand. Other things left out or changed were a disappointment to me. But for getting a whole complicated story told in under two hours, well, it was a pretty good effort.  So it gets 4 stars from me.