Hi,

 It's a beautiful movie yet, as with most movies to movie form, it's a very trimmed version of the book which contains a massive amount of information.  Most of which is accurate...aside from the Christian view...which usually lacks correct information.

 The movie uses paintings as a way to show how our thoughts create our world....which is very different than the book.  The directory did convert it nicely to film.  However, and I really like that both endings are included.  Well made movies, like this, usually inspire people to go to the book to get more info.  I didn't really feel that with the movie.  My life's experiences have very much been about what the movie is about, so I already Know things the movie was talking about well before ever seeing it, and I remember Past Lives but I focus on Now.  It's not a Believe System for me..it IS Knowing.  I remember also, before being Born. Not many do, and that's something that IS touched on in this movie.  Step away from the Churchianity Belief System (which I was never indoctrinated into) and you'll See the many Truths this movie speaks of.  Note, please, that I'm not typing about Christianity as the 2 are very, very different.

 There is No Death, only Life...on many levels/dimensions and there is NOT just 1 Life.  That is a very popular misinformation and in NO religion has that ever been Taught.  This movie makes very clear what Heaven and Hell are...Emotional!  Not actual PLACES Unless Your "Belief System" is that a Hell exists, then you'll Create it for Yourself.  It's awesome to know, You're in control...either way.  I Love Life, and the Leading Edge Adventure that it is.  It's a Wonderful gateway movie to the Book.  Please read it, but without Brainwashed Church views.  Then you'll get the Truth that's being shared.

 If you want to REALLY know More... Check into The Law of Attraction.  Abraham-Hicks.  Also get the movie, The Celestine Prophecy. It speaks of the Power we Have within Us.

Inner Peace and Silly Enlightenment is what Everything is About.  Create Well-Being.