More than any other movie I have seen, the Director's Cut of KoH creates a very different film.

Ordinary Director's Cuts add a couple of minor scenes that were edited (usually wisely) from the theatre release Not so with Kingdom of Heaven!

Ridley Scott shot an epic masterpiece that was cut to ribbons -- slashing some 50 minutes , down to 2 hours 24 minutes - to avoid the "Intermission Curse" of films too long to show multiple times daily at the nearby multi-plex.

Perhaps that is why the release disappointed at the box office, despite its untouched epic battle scenes.  That film was a surprisingly accurate portrayal of events leading to the reconquest of Jerusalem by Islamic forces in 1187, which triggered the Second Crusade. It was a time of extraordinary events and persons -- all excellently cast. But none of the characters grew past a shadowy figure with some lines between the battles. Even basic questions in the narrative were left without answers.

Awkwardly forced into the center of the roiling clash of visions and egos was central character Balian (Orlando Bloom), the bastard son of the Baron of Ibilin (Liam Neeson).

The Director's Cut reinserts 50 minutes of narrative and character exploration! (Yes, there is an Intermission - featuring the eerily appropriate musical score of Harry Gregson-Williams.) The characters explode into complexity, lifting the plot onto a level with the battle scenes. Of special note is a greater understanding of Neeson's character, and the exploration of Balian's crisis of faith -- along with a surprising counterpoint from another character whose most significant aspect was eliminated from the original release.

Restored material also answers all narrative and sequential questions, especially by restoring significant material preceding Balian's departure for the Holy Land with his father.

This is the masterpiece envisioned by Scott!  It is deeper with grander sweep even than "Gladiator."  Please invest the time to see this "new" movie!!!