Summary:
(Think 'Rush Hour' but not funny.)
Tony Fait (DMX) is some sort of thief for hire.  He is hired to steal what appear to be black diamonds but turn out to be a synthetic uranium replacement that can be turned into a really big bomb.  Su (Jet Li) is an agent for the Taiwanese government (Taiwan is where the diamonds were created) and he is sent to get them back.  Ling (Mark Dacascos) is the person that arranged the heist and also happens to be an ex-Taiwanese agent trained in martial arts.  As it turns out, Tony and Su team up when Tony's daughter is kidnapped by Ling in exchange for the diamonds.  Tony, with the help of his gang (especially note worth is Archie [Tom Arnold]), helps Su find the diamonds, kill all of the bad guys, and get his girl back.  Su, in turn, gets to fight Ling and eventually gets the diamonds back.
My Comments:
As noted above, there are only two actors in this movie that have a clue.  Jet Li, as always, is great - but that is because he is an amazingly good martial arts actor (don't know how good he is at fighting in real life).  Tom Arnold is also very funny.  Admittedly Tom's humor is off-color and at times downright offensive, but if you can let that slide, he is funny.  So, I gave this film one star because Jet Li's fight scenes were good and Tom Arnold was funny.  
The rest of the movie is absolutely not worth watching.  DMX is full of bad one-liners that make him look more stupid than cool.  The rest of the cast is so stereotypically gangster and contrived that they aren't worth mentioning.  Except, perhaps, for Gabrielle Union who is the gratuitous sex tease in the film.  But, that is about the limit of her role.
As for the story... One of the worst ever.  It does to Rush Hour what XXX did to James Bond - and, just like XXX, it does a horrible job of pulling it off.  What's worse, it is also a lot like Mission Impossible 2.  You get the impression that the entire story was set up to allow specific scenes: the cage fighting match with Jet Li, the ATV chase through the city, etc.  The story is absolutely unconvincing, unintriguing, and a waste of time.
Perhaps if they took out DMX all together and teamed up Tom Arnold with Jet Li...
Overall, if you like Jet Li and feel you can suffer through DMX's horrible attempts at acting, this may be worth going to see.  Otherwise, pick something else, wait for this one on DVD and then use the scene selection option to jump from Jet Li fight scene to Jet Li fight scene.