I had high expectations for this live DVD, but it was an utter disappointment.  It started off with interviews that went too long.  When the performances started with "Magic Man", it was immediately apparent that something was wrong.  They sounded like a band that had never played together before, and even the Wilson sisters sounded like they had not rehearsed in forever and a day.  Ann's singing wasn't off-key, but the notes that she was singing, in the correct key, were not the correct notes.  It is not unusual for a natural singer to be able to ad lib in the correct key, but not singing the correct notes, and this is exactly what she was doing.  Nancy struggled so badly with the guitar intro to "Dreamboat Annie" that she grimaced, stopped and started over.  It was clear from the expression on her face that she was really struggling, and it suggested to me that she had not even picked up a guitar in quite a long while.  As I watched the closeups of her guitar work through the rest of the concert, it was continually apparent to me that she had not picked up a guitar in a long time.

There is also a very obvious technical problem with the video.  It looked to me as though the even and odd frames had been assembled incorrectly duing the production of the DVD.  I have a brand new Sony TV, which has their latest and greatest reverse 3:2 pulldown technology, and I have not encountered this problem with any other DVD, so I must conclude that it was shot either with film cameras or with older video cameras that output only an analog video signal, and the assembly of the original frames into MPEG frames was simply done incorrectly.  The effect is quite awful, so bad in fact that it is difficult to watch.

I eventually resorted to fast-forwarding to get through it.  Between the lackluster, unrehearsed performances and the messed-up video conversion, I just couldn't stand it.  I have several dozen music DVDs, and several of them are produced from classic performances from the early '70s, that someone discovered back on some dusty shelf.  In such cases, you accept the poor quality of the video, and you appreciate seeing a classic performance by one of your favorite bands captured in a live performance during their prime.  This is not a classic performance of Heart in their prime, and the people responsible for the video production, whose names are actually on the jacket case, are presumably the sort who think themselves artists of some sort, but who do not have adequate technical know-how.  The only musicians in this performance who seemed to have practiced at all, are the backup musicians.

The bottom line is that this DVD is just a mess.  If you are a fan of Heart from the days of their prime, it is not likely that you will like this DVD.  The only sort of person that is likely to like this at all, would be someone who likes anything and everything by Heart, no matter what.