Goldmember is the third in the series of the tales of the legendary Austin Powers-who makes women everywhere swoon despite his apparent ghastly looks, who can crack any mystery, and is the overly-emphasized embodiment of the 1960's hippie-ideals as they appear to the later generations: free love and lots of bright colors for everyone. Albeit one must admit the flamboyant hippish flair of the movies have given way to downright rude and uncouth sex and bathroom jokes. Funny-as-ever British humor? Or well on its way to becoming a worn-out clich&eacute;? It's something that depends entirely on the mood and whims of the viewer. For tried-and-true Mike Myers fans, from Wayne's World to Austin Powers and Shrek, Goldmember is a sure laugh. For those who are tired of the same jokes in every movie, as Ozzy Osbourne himself complains, the trademark fun is likely to be a bore.
Mr. Powers is out to save the world again in his third box office hit with lots of naughty innuendo. His father, Nigel Powers (Sir Michael Caine), has been kidnapped by Dr. Evil, Austin's arch-enemy. This time Dr. Evil's collaborator is Goldmember, the Dutch maniac who had a tragic smelting accident and thus, metonymically as it must be in Austin Powers, has "gilded tallywhackers" and his "meat and two veg painted goooold". Austin Powers is hard-pressed to overcome the traumas created by a bad father-son relationship as he has to discover the whereabouts of his father and rescue the world from another attempt of its destruction. In the end, it turns out that Dr. Evil and Austin are long-lost brethren, and all enmity and animosity between them is forgotten. Scotty (Seth Green), who once opposed his father's world-conquering aims, now declares his father a "sissy" and begins to show disturbing signs of inheriting the Evil-associated traits, yearning to take over the world being one of them. All of the other evil sidekicks return in Goldmember: Frau Farbissina (Mindy Sterling), Mini Me (Verne J. Troyer), Number Two (Robert Wagner), not to mention Fat Bastard, who is played by none other than Mike Myers himself. These multiple roles of Mike Myers (Austin himself, Dr. Evil, Fat Bastard, and Goldmember) are reminiscent of Eddie Murphy's The Nutty Professor, which was also a hit comedy.
Goldmember is for those who revel in traditional British humor, which has not changed a bit in the years. Dr. Evil, welcoming Austin to his "underground lair", a submarine, describes it as "long and hard and full of seamen". Another joke that is simultaneously very British and very Austin, is the name of the newest mission to destroy the world, and all comments related to it. [Dr. Evil:] "Yes, Frau, on the whole Preparation H feels good." [Scotty:] "Yes, Preparation H does feel good on the hole." This repetition of the same themes that comedians have been using for years is the key to the success of Austin Powers. He is Americanized, yes, by tying his jokes into everyday American products-the hemorrhoid cream Preparation H being one of them-but nevertheless he is doubtless British at heart. Austin Powers has developed his own signature scenes and jokes, without which the movie would lack the intangible something-the mojo-that makes the outrageous Austin Powers world what it is. The repetition of the same jokes has created well-known Austin Powers trademarks, and it's tying the slightly altered jokes to the previous ones that makes them funny. But by far the best scenes in the movie are the ones lacking the uncouth bathroom jokes and sexual overtones that are no longer playful hinting and suggesting, but downright crude.
 A ludicrous opening dance scene that portrays the multiple talents of the leading actor is a must-have element of the movies, and it's a scene, by being unspoiled by repetitive sexual jokes, that depicts Austin Powers at his best. The Dr. Evil and Mini Me sing-and-dance scene is legendary: this time it's the Evilized version of Puff Daddy's "Hard Knock Life", while in the previous episode it was Will Smith's song that was given the honor. Another scene that can be classified as one of the rare, truly good ones in the movie, is one that delves a bit deeper into the mind of Austin Powers. It's a flashback into the boyhood of Austin Powers, Dr. Evil, and Number Two as they are all in the academy in which international men of mystery are trained. We learn that bold and brave sex symbol Austin may not be as gallant a knight as we have been lead to believe. Although the father-son relationship is made into a joke, it's a subtle way of taking a stand against the evils of society. The same goes for Fat Bastard, who talks about how hard it is being "a fat kid in a society that demands perfection". Despite this deep insight being turned into another fart joke, truth can be found in his words. 
It's comforting that, although nothing seems to be holy enough for the British to not be laughed at, serious insight can be squeezed in amidst all the parody.