Rabbit-Proof Fence, set in 1931 in Australia, brings to light the eugenic policies of the Australian government's attempts to "helping" Australia's interracial aborigines or half-castes.  For almost 80 years the Nazi-like policy attempted to remove all half-caste aboriginal children from their families and place them in government camps to re-educate, convert to Christianity and give them a place in White society.  The movie leaves one feeling with extreme discontent and maybe even confusion given the attitude of A.O. Neville in that he believes he is saving the children from themselves.
 The movie tells the incredible story of three young half-caste children, 14-year old Molly, 10-year old Gracie and 8-year old Daisy as they are abducted right from the arms of their tribe and taken thousands of miles away to a notorious camp for half-castes.  At the camp there are basically herded around daily and sleep in room sized dormitory buildings where their latrine is a simple bucket in the back of the room.  There are not allowed to speak their native language and anyone is who caught breaking the rules is put into an outhouse looking shack as punishment, sometimes even receiving physical beatings as punishment.  The three young girls stay isn't very long at all as the eldest girl Gracie, hastily leads them out of the camp within a couple days and on their way back to Jigalong, their home.
 After learning about the rabbit-proof fence prior to their kidnapping, the girls use this fence to find their way back home.  Their journey, however, is made quite difficult as the expert Aboriginal tracker Moodoo is hot on their trails nearly the entire way.  The girls walk for months with almost no water or food across the scorching Australian landscape.  The only solace they find is in the strangers they meet along the way.  Even though very young, Molly is very cunning and intelligent as she leads the group back to their home as they evade Moodoo and distrust the people that try  to trick them into being captured and taken back to the camp.
 As an indigenous tribe that is being pushed out and/or being taken over by the ever consuming and expanding white man, I can see the relationship that the Australian aborigines share with the other indigenous tribes throughout the world.  The expansion of the modernized world has forced all of these tribes to relocate, adapt, to a certain degree, or be somewhat influenced by the larger governing force.  Some tribes are successful in staying true to their sacred ways while other have totally adapted to a modern lifestyle.  The saddest thing to me is when a part of a tribe is forcefully removed from their home and brainwashed into nearly forgetting the past and tribal religions & beliefs only to return later feeling like they were never there at all or that they don't belong.  In the textbook "Living Religions" (8th edition) in chapter 2 mentions Eliza Saunders, an Australian aboriginals who five children were taken away from her while she and her husband were job hunting.  One of her children speaks of when they return home: "When myself and my brothers and sisters return home, we five sit there quite mute and just listen, observe. Because we were never there."  There is no amount of apology or remorse anyone can have to heal the wounds created by aggressive colonization or inhumane government policies.  Only time and forgiveness can heal those wounds.  And there will always be the scare left for everyone to see.

Steven M. Christin