Apparently many of you smart people already know that Cyndi Lauper is a phenomenal talent. I have always loved her music but, to my detriment, haven't really paid much attention to her career for the past 20 years. A few weeks ago I saw Cyndi's appearance on The View, which I'd also never watched before but now TIVO since Rosie joined the show. I was mesmerized by Cyndi's performance, and I happened to notice that HDNet was airing her concert, "Cyndi Lauper Live... At Last". I was absolutely blown away and immediately went to Amazon the buy this DVD, the "12 Deadly Cyns" DVD and five other CDs (including the latest, "The Body Accoustic," which is just fantastic!).

Let me start with the personal. Who knew that Cyndi was so hot? She's in unbelievable shape and has boundless energy! She's 53 now, I think, but has the body of a 25-year-old. As a 43-year-old woman, I felt so much hope watching her, ha ha. Seriously, seeing someone her age looking and performing the way she does gave me a new attitude. My husband has the hots for her, I think, but I can't blame him. We think she must have a nutritionist and do yoga or some type of breathing exercises because she can dance her hind end off without missing a vocal note. If you think that's easy, just watch American Idol!

Cyndi is a gifted songwriter and her voice has just gotten better over the years. Most impressive to me, however, is her confidence. She's essentially a conductor on stage, and it's clear she is in control of everything from arranging the music to directing the concert. The musicians she's assembled are superb, and they all seem to have a lot of fun.

The show is brilliantly paced, and no one works harder for an audience. I've been to several great concerts, including U2 (twice), REM, Ray Charles, old Elvis, and Paul McCartney, and they were all great shows. But I must say that this is the best concert I've ever seen, and I wasn't even there in person. It's really so entertaining and appeals to a variety of tastes. Everyone we've shown it to wants the DVD.

Cyndi wisely opens the show with "At Last," and immediately establishes her bona fides. I've always thought Etta James gave the definitive vocal performance of that song until I heard Ms. Lauper sing it. She has such a bluesy sound and holds that last note for a good 18 seconds, and her voice just gets stronger the longer she holds it!

Next she entertains the audience with a short soliloquy on her childhood musical influences, setting up "Stay," during which she ventures into the audience for the first time. Another endearing quality is her willingness to mix with the huddled masses. It's a nice dichotomy, actually. When she sings, she's stunning... a star. But when she talks, she's like a neighbor chatting over the back fence. It feels like she's talking to you, her best friend.

"I Drove All Night" is tres sexy and playful, while "If You Go Away" is haunting. I couldn't get either song out of my head for days. "All Through the Night" includes those great high notes at the end, and this song sounds better than ever. I also loved this version of "Walk on By." Keep an eye open for Cyndi's priceless expressions during the song's introduction.

Next is "Please Don't Let Me Be Misunderstood," which is very introspective and breathtaking to watch. Cyndi's vocal duet with Kat Dyson's guitar is first rate. And I adore the "French" version of "She Bop"! I thought it was very clever and oh-so-funny. "Sisters of Avalon" seems to be another of her under-rated songs, and it will stay in your head for weeks -- especially the bridge.

"Change of Heart" has great energy and Cyndi impresses with her considerable dancing skills. "True Colors" really needs no description, but I'll admit to crying the first 4-5 times I watched it. Very emotional. The same week I watched this concert, I saw one of the American Idol kids sing "True Colors" and literally had to leave the room. Let's just say it helped me truly appreciate Cyndi's interpretive talents.

"Shine" is one of those songs that should have won several Grammys. Fantastic! I'm not sure why this song was overlooked, but fortunately she includes it on her newest CD, "The Body Accoustic." The song definitely deserves some air play!!

My favorite performance may be "It's Hard to be Me," which Cyndi wrote with bass player Bill Whitman. (He's also the co-writer on Shine; I think these two need to write more songs together!) This song was written while Cyndi was watching the Anna Nicole Smith trial, which obviously was years before Anna's untimely death. While I do feel a little guilty for enjoying it so much, this song is so clever and the choreography is genius. Look for Anna poses everywhere, and don't miss Bill W. sneaking a peek under Cyndi's dress!! Funny.

"Money Changes Everything," with a cool rock-a-billy sound, winds up the show, and everybody jams. Cyndi, the band, the crowd... the energy is palpable. You'll be squirming in your Barca-lounger, for sure.

Encore numbers include "Unchained Melody," a beautiful performance of "Time After Time" and "Girls Just Wanna Have Fun". This time Cyndi does a vocal duet with the trumpet, and it's impressive.

This is Lauper at her very best. She combines the physique and energy of a 25-year-old with the maturity and confidence of someone with 25 years of experience in the business. She leaves it all on the stage, holding nothing back and giving her heart and soul to her adoring fans. She really is beautiful.