Many times this movie has been criticized for carrying the reliance on gadgetry to the extreme. It does have many gadgets such as the safe decoder, Little Nellie, the lipstick bomb, and some of the ninja weapons. This time,though, the producers had every right make this another gadget-laden movie because of the huge success of Thunderball.
I've read many of the Ian Fleming Bond books and this was the first movie that did not follow the book at all. There are only two things that remain constant between the book and the movie: the Japenese location and the characters. This is understandable because in the series of novels, On Her Majesty's Secret Service is before YOLT. In the book YOLT, Bond is a wreck because of his wife's death in OHMSS and M even considers firing him. In the movie series, Bond hadn't been married or widowed. For the screenplay, producers bring in the noted writer Roald Dahl to create a film with expensive special effects and large-scale sets.
The film is director Lewis Gilbert's Bond debut and the first time Peter Hunt does the second unit directing instead of the editing. During the end of production, Sean Connery announced his retirement from the series but would later come back for Diamonds Are Forever. Connery said that he was sick of Bondmania and all of the reporters looking for interwiews. 
THE ASSIGNMENT After American and a Soviet spacecrafts vanish, M assigns James Bond to Japan, where he suspects that another party might be fabricating the conflict. After faking his own death, Bond connects with the Japanese Secret Service. He is then trained as a ninja, 'married' to another agent, Kissy Suzuki( whose name isn't even mentioned in the film) and disguised as a worker on a Japanese island. Bond and Kissy discover that SPECTRE is launching rockets that can capture other spacecrafts and return them to Blofeld's magnificent lair inside a volcano. The end of the movie is very exciting when many ninjas attack the volcano lair and destroy it. Blofeld escapes and Bond and Kissy are left in a raft.
This film contains the best music and some of the best editing in the series. I own every Bond movie and with me this one ranks as one of the top 6. From Russia, With Love; On Her Majesty's Secret Service; Goldfinger; Tomorrow Never Dies; You Only Live Twice; GoldenEye
Rent or buy it.