For a fair and balanced review, let's subtract out David Hasselhoff for the time being.  Don't worry, I'll get back to him.  The music is wonderful whether or not you know the show.  I would have liked close-captions for those unfamiliar with it, but I could see how that would become difficult with the choral parts.  The cast was amazing.  From the principles to the chorus, every person knew their part and their place.  The music flows one piece into the next, although the ladies' songs can be a bit long-winded.  The story puts a wonderful twist on the traditional Jekyll and Hyde.  You can honestly feel for Henry and his obsession to eradicate madness.  The set was minimalistic but completely versatile and compelling.  The blood-red floor with the black-frame buildings complemented the show rather than detracting from it like a grand set would have done.  The pieces moved flawlessly on tracks in the floor so you were never disturbed by stagehands.  And the changing camera angles actually helped rather than hindered your watching enjoyment.  All around, I enjoyed it.

Now let's put David back into the equation.  For a man best known for talking to a car and bimbos on the beach, he did an admirable job.  No, he isn't the best singer in the world.  His vibrato is variable depending on his emotional intent, his tone is decent although sometimes he breaks off his air pressure, but he can certainly hold his own.  And honestly, I've seen lesser singers in better roles.  His acting can be over the top, but this might have been because the cameras were rolling that night.  I'm willing to give him the benefit of the doubt because of his incredible portrayal of Edward Hyde.  While he might be a bit grandiose as Henry Jekyll, he was perfectly cast as Hyde.  Watching his body movements and those menacing, psychotic eyes gave me the creeps.  He certainly had the passion and heart for this role, even if he was a bit of a ham.  And with such a wonderful role where you're on stage almost every moment, who could blame him for hamming it up?

If David's singing and acting had been a bit better, and he had actually tried to use an English accent when everyone else was, I would have given it four stars.