I have a liking for both H.P. Lovecraft stories and off the wall horror films and few people do them better than Stuart Gordon.  He misses the target occasionally, but you have to take his films in context.  The production values are high, the direction good, and the acting, whilst not inspired, is competent and convincing.  The special effects are OK for lowish budget features, and the sound, cinematography and editing are fine.

What seems to annoy a lot of people is that Gordon takes Lovecraft stories as the basis for his plots, and then fabricates a modern post-Halloween type horror story rather than staying "true to the master's original story".  Get over it.  Lovecraft had a fantastic imagination but stylistically he was a lousy writer who never evolved beyond pulp fiction.  Without him there would be no Cthulhu mythos but face it - his prose is repetitive, precious and turgid.

Lovecraft also had a very conservative, post-Victorian background and wrote in an era when the silent version of "The Phantom of the Opera" was  considered shocking.  His stories are essentially unfilmable because it would be impossible to package his style and vision into a film that would truly horrify modern audiences.  They would either laugh or be bored stiff.

Rather than criticising it for not being "accurate", "From Beyond" should be compared to films such as "Hellraiser" or "From Dusk Till Dawn" - that is its true mileau.  In that case, it more than holds its place as a worthy modern splatter-horror.

The only films that really attempt to portray Lovecraft in an "accurate" manner are Carpenter's "In the Mouth of Madness" and the Lovecraft Society's "The Call of Cthulhu" (which is pretty good for an amateur attempt).  The Carpenter film still uses a lot of gore, but it is not so gratuitous.  The Lovecraft Society's film works because it is made as an imitation 1920s silent film, so the viewer accepts all its shortcomings.

It would be interesting to see a Lovecraft film made by a major director with a big budget, and not done as a splatter film, but I can't see it happening in the near future.  In the meantime, Gordon's films are fine entertainment - but just don't expect them to be "accurate".

As for this particular release, it is very high quality and the commentary is interesting.  Thank goodness it finally got to DVD.