The thirteenth James Bond flick and Moore's sixth outing is not only blessed with a far-out, hilarious and racy title in Octopussy, but it is arguably Moore's greatest triumph as the debonair superspy.  Compared to what I believe to be Moore's very best outing, The Spy Who Loved Me, Octopussy, much like For Your Eyes Only is a no-frills, serious Sean Connery 60's throwback in the 80's, but with the overall feel of a daring, exotic adventure, comparable of an Indiana Jones movie.  In fact, the Bond franchise capitalizes on the prosperity of George Lucas' films, with Octopussy somewhat echoing Raiders of the Lost Ark in place of Moonraker replicating Star Wars to a point.  Where Moonraker failed, Octopussy succeeded in that the Raiders of the Lost Ark tone was more nostalgic and suitable, and because of it, Octopussy had gone down as an excellent all-around film.  
The beginning of the movie can be a bit confusing, aside from the entertaining pre-titled sequence, highlighted by Bond's Acrostar jet.  One of Bond's MI6 colleagues was murdered on the circus grounds of East Berlin, possibly due to the fact he secured a fake Faberge egg.  At any rate, Bond is assigned to attend an auction, where the authentic Faberge egg is being sold, in an attempt to foil any buyers, with the apparent motive of funding the Soviets with "hard currency", from purchasing the priceless egg.  It is at this auction that Bond encounters an affluent, exiled Afghan prince named Kamal Khan (Louis Jourdan of Gigi fame), who eventually wins the Faberge egg.  Bond follows Kamal Khan back to his home in India where 007 exposes Khan's ties to a jewelry smuggler, the infamous Octopussy (Maud Adams, who played Andrea Anders from The Man With The Golden Gun) and his affiliation with a power-hungry Soviet officer, General Orlov (Stefan Berkoff).  Bond deduces that Khan would aid Orlov by utilizing Octopussy's front, a traveling circus to detonate a nuclear bomb on an American air force base in West Berlin.  By doing so, Orlov would obliterate American defense of the Western European fronts and open the door for the Soviets to occupy the whole of Europe.  What ensues is a nail-biting railway chase against time to West Berlin as Bond desperately attempts to save the day.
Octopussy is a thrilling ride, with well-developed characters and an involving, yet reasonable storyline to boot.  Moore, despite his obvious aging, turns in a well-deserved outstanding performance.  Moore's leading lady and title character, Maud Adams is worthy of praise, as she portrays the intriguing and intelligent Octopussy with tremendous poise.  Kamal Khan is a cool customer of a villain, possessing a deadly, charming aura about himself.  Although Orlov does not receive a whole lot of screen time in this film, compared to his partner in crime, Kamal Khan, is a ruthless, insanely patriotic maniac.  Octopussy has some unique henchmen as well, in particular, the intimidating Gobinda, who comes off as an Indian-style Oddjob, and the twin knife-throwing assassins, Mischa and Grischa.  Don't forget the razor yo-yo cronies as well!  Kristina Wayborn as the sensual, mysterious Magda turns in a rather memorable perfomance as an alternate, minor Bond lady.  Above all, the storyline is deliberate, meticulous-paced, which makes it the film's best attribute.  Despite the over-the-top raid of Kamal Khan's Monsoon Palace, from the post-title sequence to Bond's chase to thwart Orlov is incredibly suspenseful, with a rather comical touch to the climax, Octopussy delivers a nice, steady dose of exotic action and adventure.