It's hard for me to write a review of "The Secret of NIMH", because it is quite simply one of most powerful and awe-inspiring film productions ever created.  Its dazzling animation and truly profound  storytelling defeats any attempt at trying to capture in words the magic it  performs in the hearts and minds of viewers.

 But, here goes.  Director  Don Bluth and his team of animators left Disney to start this production,  as a reaction against the steady abandonment by their former employers of  the classical art of animation for a more streamlined, cost-effective  approach.  As story material for this project, they enlisted the seminal  children's book "Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH", by Robert C.  O'Brien.  It details the story of a young widowed field mouse who, in order  to save her family from the dreaded farmer's plough, must throw in with a  cadre of rats who guard a miraculous secret: due to scientific experiements  undergone at the National Institute of Mental Health (the NIMH of the  title), they have been genetically altered to posess intelligence on par  with humans.  Stealing electricity from a nearby farmhouse, they have  formed their own underground civilization that they must ultimately abandon  as NIMH returns to eliminate them.

 While the film only uses the core  premise of the book as its foundation, it does something rarely seen in film adaptations by actually improving upon its literary source, adding a  mystical element that ends up telling a fuller and more visually dynamic  story.  And along with the revamped, Tolkienized plot are lovingly crafted  characterizations, creating a vibrant community of animal players who you truly begin to empathise with.  It's not often that a movie allows such emotional investment by viewers into the plight of its characters...NIMH  does this, and then some.

 And then, of course, we also have the  incredible artwork.  It is easy to see how dedicated Bluth is to  recapturing the lost days of lush, colourful, intricately detailed animation.  Every scene vibrates with visual content, whether it be a brilliantly  composed background or a breakneck action sequence, both of which NIMH does  in spades.  I've lost count how many times I've watched NIMH, but there  never fails to be chills running up and down my spine in certain scenes,  due to the devestating power of the images.

 Such a synthesis of  dramatic storytelling and miraculous visuals is something to be truly  cherished.  Unfortunately, when NIMH was released in 1982, it was knocked  aside by the release of Spielberg's E.T. juggernaut and has since been  relegated to cult status, revered by those lucky enough to have been  witness to one of the greatest animated features ever produced.  If you  want to refresh your spirt and mind, as well as watch a true practitioner  of classical animation out-Disney Disney itself,  surrender to the awesome  magic of NIMH today.