Finally this Ultimate Historic even in both Music and New York history is officially released on DVD.
The print is not restored but for both those who have the bootlegged version and those who have only seen clips on youtube it is clean and vibrant. The excitement and energy of day one is still alive and remains untouched and unparalleled thirty years later.

There really is no entertainer who has performed in the face of this type of crisis and chaos ever. The storm only fed the mythology and grandeur that Ross has tried to create for herself and she rose to the moment and milked it for all its worth. She became a goddess and the world succumbed to all her glory eagerly.

Day two however was a different story. The show began with the same energy but very quickly it was evident this was a different crowd and an ego maniac Ross fueled by the previous nights glory.

Ross became annoyed with the crowd. For the first time (because of the digital print) you can see the second shows crowd much more closely and they appear as a much wilder, dirtier, and lower class crowd. In His book Call Her Miss Ross author Randy Taraborrelli also blames the fact of day two being a Friday which brought in an end of week happy hour crowd. If you read his book one can also assume Ross was glaring at the crown and chastising them wondering why she brought in such a rowdy crowd.  One may say she was thinking "They didn't act like this at Streisand's concert...Is this what I attract?!" After Mirror Mirror  Day two's show quickly became boring even for the most die-hard Ross fan.
However my one complaint is that though the DVD does claim it contains both days in its entirety it's not. Pieces of Ice and I believe her rambling about her then new found religion was cut out. Not sure what the point of that was. Their absence does nothing to improve the tenor of day two and though it was not a big hit, some fans really love Pieces Of Ice.
The DVD is a must have for all Ross fans and well as libraries and classrooms around the world. Even the most casual Ross fan or Ross haters would be mesmerized of the spectacular day one event.