WWE: The Best of Smackdown - 10th Anniversary 1999-2009 is a pretty good DVD for a long time Smackdown! fan like myself. As others have mentioned some highlights should have been higher up than others, example Eddie Guerrero's tribute. There of course is a lot of editing I've noticed in the DVD. We all know about the WWF logo being censored all over the place,but at least this time they just censored the F instead of the whole W in some instances, of course its hard to censor good oh JR when he says WWF Title or something with the WWF in it so fast. I also noticed that some commentary was taken out for some odd reason,I would have to go back and watch the original episode to see what it was,but,it is weird hearing silence when you know Micheal Cole is saying something stupid or key point, not too much of a bother. And of course they have lost some rights to some music like Edge's Rob Zombie theme or Hulk Hogan's Voodoo Child theme by Jimi Hendrix, so they dub in Edge's You Think You Know Me theme or of course Real American for Hogan, I think Undertakers theme is also dubbed over. Ask for the super market brawl I was expecting that they would have it in full like they did the Billy & Chuck wedding,but sadly no just highlights and not to mention they even changed the commentary on that too! As said Chris Benoit is only seen for a brief second in only one of the highlights. Oh and this DVD is PG,can you believe that? Yep all the blood scenes, like when Mr. McMahon won the title, are put in black and white, seriously I can understand if this was on TV, but this is a DVD I payed for, for crying out loud,it should be TV-14 just as it was back then and should be now! I would have loved to see a 4th disc with maybe the pilot episode on it or the 9/11 tribute show,maybe when the fist set was first put into place and heck even the tribute to the troops show would have been nice, maybe one day they will release seasons of the show and win the rights back to the WWF initials. Oh and one more thing,where is the Rock? Where is Stone Cold,Chris Jericho,Undertaker,Edge,Batista, hell even Michael Cole seriously, some of the key people that made Smackdown! why are they not interviewed on the DVD, I mean its nice to see the young talent commenting on the moments but as the Rock would say, "It doesn't matter what you think! This is the Rock's show Smackdown!" Speaking of Cole,wheres the moment where Stone Cold beat him up, rather when Stone Cold beat up JR as well. And even Stone Cold,I mean,there should be a few more moments with him in it,like when Mr. McMahon turned out all the lights and Stone Cold surprised him or how about when he chased the NWO and captured Scott Hall. All and all, the DVD is a great piece of Smackdown! history and should be in anyone's WWE collection that has loved and will always love Smackdown! And for the new people that have recently started to watch the show,see what defined an era in the history of the best show ever on Thursday now Friday Nights.