If this movie had stayed focused on a small, human story of how two very  different people in need reach out to each other, it would've been  gorgeous.  But in its execution, things go so wrong so quickly that I have  to believe the script was only one-eighth written when filming  started.
Philip Seymour Hoffman is very talented and watchable  (interestingly reminding me so much of a woman I know), but that's about  the only good thing I can say.  Robert DeNiro walks through his role, but  that doesn't matter much, since his Walt Koontz is just a stereotype  anyway.  Like many of the other characters, Koontz is so much more a  function of the uninventive plot than any real study of attitude or  behavior.  On the other hand, Rusty's three friends were actually  stereotypes who didn't have any plot function.  They were, it seems, the  road company from "To Wong Foo" wandering onto the wrong set.  
This to me was the movie's downfall.  I could've even gone along with  the tacked-on subplots if these characters had been more genuine and  complex.  But as it was, Rusty was the all-knowing earth mother (by virtue  of being gay, I guess), Koontz was the bigoted, misogynist white cop (by  virtue of being white and male), all the minorities were fringe people with  criminal tendencies (prostitutes, drug dealers, and thugs), and all the  gays (at cross-purpose, it would appear, with the movie's message) were  childish and self-absorbed.  I was shocked, e.g., when Rusty's friends  reacted to a near-deadly ordeal by pushing to get their own names and faces  on the news report, because one of them just won a gay beauty contest.  You  can't tell me that's not outrageous stereotyping.
Already irritated by  this, I had little patience for the more minor messes in continuity,  purpose, and tone, which I'm going to rant about now.  Why does Tia care  about Koontz?  Why are we supposed to care about him?  What is the point of  Rory Cochrane's character?  Damn it, does Rusty live above Koontz or below  him?  In the final scenes, are we supposed to be anxious for Rusty's safety  or amused that he looks like a Monty Python  housewife?  Why did people  yell at, and thereby warn, their attackers before they shot back?  The  climax would've been resolved much quicker if some basic human instincts  had been brought into play.  And what was that interminable outtake-thing  at the end, followed by the chirpy credits?  It felt like the wrap-up to a  70's comedy show.
All in all, this was a great central idea that very  quickly shot off the tracks.  Philip Seymour Hoffman and Robert DeNiro  should try it again in another movie.