Sylvester Stallone gives perhaps his best performance since Rocky, the film that put his career into stellar status. Here he has to play against type, sort of (it's hard to say what type Stallone usually plays since Rocky is so unlike Rambo). He clearly is a loser (a somewhat inept but well-meaning guy who has had more than his share of tough breaks) who ultimately redeems himself but then doesn't become a larger-than-life hero in the process. It's sort of like Rocky without the acclaim of going the distance in the ring.

Ray Liotta (as a cop who may be very corrupt but who also gets very close to the sheriff) is equally good. Their two characters' and their relationship are key to understanding and appreciating the story fully, so this movie rises into four-star status because of how the fine performances from them play out in close interaction.

The story has been summarized and analyzed elsewhere, so I will be very brief in what is going to be a very brief review. The film makes great use of NYC and NJ settings, giving it an automatic authenticity. There is a great supporting cast. You could even say the overall effect is an ensemble acting film.

Stallone plays the 'Sheriff of Cop Land'. He is a local hero of a small NJ town across the river from NYC. He couldn't become a real 'COP' because of an ear injury he suffered as a teenager while saving the girl/woman who would become the unrequited love of his life (she doesn't return that love). So he gets to be sheriff of the town where many NYC cops make their home.

Things come to a crisis not simply because some of the NYC cops in the town are caught up in an elaborate corruption scheme. They also reach a climax because the Sheriff of Cop Land wants to know the truth and wants to be taken seriously by the very guys he has always worshipped.

This film is loaded with celebrity acting talent; the only way it could have got made was they waived their usual salaries in order to be in it. Robert De Niro gives a fine performance as an internal affairs cop investigating the bad cops (led by Harvey Keitel).

The scenario upon which the film is predicated plays out as largely unbelievable (a NYC cop, after driving home from a party, shoots and kills two joy riders because he thought they had a weapon and had taken a shot at him, and his fellow cops come up with a scheme to make it appear he has killed himself to avoid charges while keeping him hidden in the NJ town).

This unbelievable scenario makes Harvey Keitel's role problematic, although he does a nice turn trying to keep his part of the film together so it makes sense.

I thought to some extent the female talent in this film, such as Janeane Garofalo (as a deputy in the suburban town) and Annabella Sciorra (as the woman the sheriff longs after), didn't really have roles that gave them enough character development or screen time.