Ed Harris not only stars and directs this film, he is co-producer.  He also found himself involved with the score, and the voice in the song heard over the closing credits belongs to none other than Ed Harris.  Ed Harris displays a sure hand as editor, and does wonders with the lighting and set design.  His cinematography is excellent.  The costumes are further testament to the diverse talents of Ed Harris.  A better boom operator could not be found, and the same could be said in regard a gaffer.  If one purchases the DVD, then Ed Harris provides an insightful commentary.  In many ways, then, this is Ed Harris's film.
*
It is somewhat of a shame, however, that Ed Harris shows little or no insight into the alleged subject matter of the film, the painter Jackson Pollock.  If the film had been entitled, "Ed Harris" it could well be regarded as a work of genius, albeit a rather boring one; whilst bearing the misleading title, "Pollock", it is likely to establish, or perhaps the more apposite word would be confirm, Ed Harris's credentials as a man of limited intellect and of misguided ambition.  For the Jackson Pollock portrayed in this film is that of documented legend; no doubt accurately sourced from his letters, interviews, and the reports of those who outlived him, the persona depicted in the film is no more than a rendition of the publicised exterior of the man.  And this is very disappointing:  in what clearly is a project of the heart for (need I mention his name again) Ed Harris, there appears to be few surprises and few insights, profound or shallow, into the hidden aspects of Pollock.  Instead, there is a tremendous sense of self-importance, and this translates to a laboured directorial style, and an over-long film.  There is no deep understanding of painting manifest in the sensibility of the film, and therefore the development of Pollock's style is not fathomed, a pivotal scene implying that chance played a determining role (although this very implication is contradicted by a verbatim quote from a radio interview also depicted in the film);  the viewer is thus not privileged to some deeper understanding of Pollock's artistic process, nor of artistic processes in general, and the film comes to rely on ordinary storytelling for its impact, and here too it is deficient.  The motivations of the characters are simplistic and unsatisfying;  too many scenes are predictable, and time drags beyond the first forty minutes.
*
A better exploration of the artistic process is to be found in Jacques Rivette's, "La Belle Noiseuse", although those of you who liked "Pollock" may be put off by the fact that the French film does not feature Ed Harris.