This is an excellent, historically accurate recounting of how John Kennedy's war became Lyndon Johnson's war, and should be seen by every young American born since that time as a way of understanding the essentials of bad policymaking and the temper of the times.  As a dramatization, it's absorbing to view while you absorb the history.

Watch this, then watch the many PBS Frontline documentaries about Bush the Younger's dance into Iraq.

I don't give "Path to War" 5 stars because two roles, in particular, fall short.

First, Michael Gambon utterly fails to capture the cadence, lilt and phrasing of LBJ's unmistakeable west Texas accent.  His failure (and that of his diction coach, and of the director himself) is so profound that the film deserves to be dubbed at some point to get it right.  At no point in this nearly 3-hour production was I able to really accept Gambon audibly as the president I knew, voted for, respected, and came to despise (Gambon's visual appearance is much nearer to Lyndon, but he's physically not as big as LBJ).  NB:  I'm a huge Gambon fan--his tour de force as an actor, in my opinion, is "The Singing Detective," which itself is a marvelous piece of screen invention written by Dennis Potter.

Second, Alec Baldwin comes close to being miscast as Robert McNamara.  This is primarily a visual shortcoming; he (and his makeup artists, but also his Creator) are unable to visually deliver the unique appearance of McNamara.  Baldwin's hairdo is pert'-near perfect, but his eyeglasses are wrong, and most of all, Baldwin is cursed with a set of facial characteristics ('thoughtful' eyes and particularly a full, sensitive mouth) that just can't deliver the chiseled intensity and thin-lipped image that McNamara presented to the world.  His acting is okay, but not distinguished, and he strains to be credible in those crucial scenes where his searing conviction sweeps LBJ up and screws the president's courage to the sticking-point.  I would have looked long and hard to come up with someone who could have better delivered the McNamara persona.

Donald Sutherland is probably best of the principals, but also falls short of capturing the constantly grinning, reassuring, wavy-haired lawyer Clark Clifford--and of all the characters, the portrait of Clark Clifford seems the most revisionist and least accurate for a guy who happily ran DOD and the deepening war after McNamara's departure.