There were so many things about this movie that did not ring true or seem believable.

 Start with the parents of the main character, the father a doctor who teaches at a university, and his mother-hen-all-warm-and-endearing wife. In their somewhat drab dining room, having dinner with their grown kids. Almost screams, 'Poor but honest, human, down-to-earth.' In other words, 'Don't hate Dad because he's a doctor and rolling in money!'

 Then there's the chubby son who supposedly is so smart that he made a killing in the field of technology. He's too dumb to put any money in the bank, so soon, we're seeing him, again, 'poor but honest and down-to-earth, with self-esteem issues, just like you and me!'

 What crap.

 After the titillation of lots of skin shown when Jake and Anne Hathaway have sex (that part is pretty believable), Jake's character, Jamie, who's supposed to be such an emotional clod that he talks over the live broadast of the towers falling on 9/11, Jake and Maggie (her character) get serious. It's really a very touching scene when he first admits that he loves her - that was worth watching for the acting and the message conveyed - but when he starts to focus on her disease, everything goes awry.

 I'll skip all the things that happen and just say that it could have ended with the lovely emotional scene that seems to resolve many issues. I loved that scene. Then it was all ruined by a coda in which Jake tells us that he made a moral choice and applied to medical school.

 ENNNGHHH! (sound of buzzer). Wrong thing to add to the movie. Jake's already admitted that he can't sit through classes, was aimless in college and dropped out. In the competitive world of medical admissions, even Dad (a university professor, remember) would have trouble getting a son who's decided he wants to be doctor now into medical school. A son who refers to himself as having ADD. And that is expected to wrap up all of the plot in a neat little bow so the happy couple retire healthy and wealthy (the understanding is that Maggie will then have her own live-in doctor watching the progress of her disease).

 Without that stupid, cloying, and unbelievable ending, I was willing to overlook the 'poor but honest' facade presented by a family basically rolling in money, with plenty of options in life and lots of financial security, but living 'the simple (and drab) life' as if it was some political statement. But with that dumb ending, I can really only recommend skipping through the movie to the last 15 minutes. It's all you really need to see - the rest is purely contrived and not believable.