"Spartacus has had an interesting, if at times questionably spotty, release on various home video media. I defer to the man I consider to be the definitive source on what Spartacus "should" look like, the film's 1991 restorer Robert Harris, who told me that he considers the Criterion SD-DVD "color and density correct." So let's leave the previous Universal SD-DVD and certainly the troublesome HD-DVD aside and address how this new AVC encoded 1080p Blu-ray stacks up to the Criterion. I did a side by side test and came to a few conclusions. The film is undeniably cleaner in the Blu-ray presentation, with that digitally scrubbed look which argues to DNR. The good news is we're not at the extreme plastic levels of Patton (which is not saying much), but the bad news is those with humongous projection sets will be missing some detail, and even smaller sets will reveal the smooth, textureless façade of DNR that wipes away a lot of the filmic look of the feature. On a 46" LCD flatscreen, I found the DNR to be relatively minimal by modern (often hyperbolic) standards, perhaps a backhanded compliment. Despite the smoother texture, there are still occasional flecks and specks to be seen fleeting through the film, though evidently nothing at the level of the HD-DVD (at least according to the reviews I read--I never saw that version). This may be more than odd, in fact a misperception, as Harris avers that all recent releases come from the same interpositive source elements. The color timing on this Blu is a more interesting phenomenon, at least to my eyes. It is certainly much more densely saturated on the Blu than the Criterion, and it appears quite acceptable taken by itself. When compared to the Criterion however, I personally feel there's a clear, albeit slight, tilt toward the red-yellow side of the spectrum, perhaps the result of an anxious telecine operator's knob. There's nothing here that is going to make an average viewer avert their eyes in horror, but these are very subtle, interesting differences that will probably entice more as an intellectual exercise than any deciding factor in your enjoyment of this presentation. The third element is edge enhancement, which, while not as egregious as in some recent releases, is still quite evident. In fact, you'll see it in some of the screencaps included in this review. Pay attention, for example, to the ringing around the assembled multitudes on horseback. My gut feeling about all of this is if you haven't seen the Criterion SD-DVD, you're probably going to be OK with this Blu--it certainly doesn't devolve to the level of, say, Patton or, more recently, Out of Africa. Those with a history with this film may find this a more troublesome release, perhaps not as bad as the HD-DVD evidently was, but bringing its own nettlesome worries into the fray. The sad part is the Criterion release presented the film as close to Kubrick's original vision as we're ever likely to get. It could have been used as a reference for this Blu, but it certainly doesn't seem like it was.
"