The problem with America is that there are too many soft cushy malls into which ugly hairy movies are screened. On the other hand, sometimes an ugly hairy movie is so much fun you forget that you are in a mall.
Where did  Batman go terribly wrong? Why was Spawn such a yawn? Well, cinematically  speaking, my explanation might not suffice, but I know this much: whoever  made 'Blade' got it right. Down to the last edit. I am digging into my  black boots to come up with raving superlatives kiddies. This movie is not  only the bomb, it is the shockwave, the flying glass and the crunching  concrete and steel. I have never felt so cool driving my own chrome-rimmed  black euro-sedan pumping bass, as just after seeing 'Blade'. The charge of  coolness lasts long after the final credits. I'm going to see it again. And  probably again too.
When I saw 'Passenger 57', it was at a midnight show  off Times Square with a packed house of nightcrawling action hounds. I'm  wishing to be with just such a rowdy crowd for the next screening of Blade,  because Wesley Snipes has just outdone himself. Yeah he was bad in p57, and  I could dig his Simon Phoenix badass, but neither of these characters  matches the ferocious intensity of Blade. Blade is pure focus, absolute  fury and lethal precision. All that and black leather, silver hollowpoint  bullets and a titanium pig sticker. Ouch! Bite me, Terminator.
Plot is  satisfactorily straightforward, never lurching off too far. But the action!  Oh mercy Jesus this man can fight! The effects are seamless and never  overblown - car chases are speedily goofed up for effect, the clouds and  ominous music are done just right, the 'America is f'd up' is left out of  the picture, there are enough Asians in the movie to remind you that Asians  are left out of movies, and there is enough mayhem to satisfy appetites for  destruction without overdoing it. It's funky and hip. I'm even thinking  about grabbing the soundtrack. In other words this is an absolute first  class action flick and it hits just the right balance.
So, what's not to  like? Well for one thing, you never get the impression that Blade can lose.  The bad guy in this flick, sneered by what I suppose is the coolest of the  new looking evil dudes, is no physical menace. We know he's up to something  evil, but we never get a first hand look at his cold-blooded capabilities.  He just pisses off all the old fogie vampires because he parties all night,  wears trashy fashions and smokes like Leonardo DiCaprio. He talks about  taking over the world, but we don't see him setting Bosnians off against  each other. On the whole, he doesn't seem any more superhumanly bad than  your average Noriega. He doesn't even smack his woman.
Nevertheless,  Dorff's Deacon Frost does employ a load of pseudo-zombie troops always on  the move in a relentless pursuit of Blade. They all end up fodder in a  flurry of incredible martial arts stunts and fabulously violent deaths. But  of course Blade must be hobbled by babeage, in this case, the smart and  somewhat vulnerable N'Bushe Wright who gets to participate in various  girl-fights peppered through the flick.
Still, in all. This is the best  action flick since, hmmmm. Total Recall.