To start off, this is a very underrated film. I'm a huge fan of the Rocky films. It's actually one of the better Rocky movies in my opinion. Just because it doesn't have a boxing match or it's "weak" and Rocky is broke doesn't mean it is a horrible movie. It's beautiful. It's bittersweet. It's original. People go broke, they get sick, stuff happens, that's life.

Rocky returns home from Russia only to find he has brain damage inflicted on him in the ring by the Ivan Drago. Rocky then discovers that his fortune is gone thanks to Adrian's brother Paulie, who has been squandered by their incompetent accountant. Rocky is forced to sell everything and the family is left broke.

Despite all this, Rocky reluctantly goes back to Philadelphia to start over since medical condition prevents him from boxing. The changes prove to be difficult to Robert(Rocky's son) who quickly becomes involved with a bad crowd, and encounters a bully. Financially desperate, Rocky is tempted to re-enter the ring when shady promoter George Washington Duke offers him a huge amount of money to defend his title. Duke is a very irritating and pushy character. Adrian proves to have the brains in this film as well as in the Balboa clan. She insists that Rocky not risk his life by returning to the ring. Rocky's financial future looks bleak, until he Rocky meets Tommy Gunn, who idolizes Rocky and begs Rocky to train him. Rocky reopens Mickey's gym and begins to train Tommy. The two become good friends, like brothers almost, which puts a strain on Rocky's relationship with his son. He relives his memories through Tommy and becomes alive again while losing himself and his family in the process.

After Tommy the "Machine Gun" wins his first few matches, he starts becoming arrogant. George Washington Duke notices Tommy and Tommy leaves Rocky for Duke. In the end Rocky cannot compete with the money, women, and high-priced prizes being offered to Tommy by Duke. The events lead to a nasty confrontation between the two. The street fight in the end is classic. It's very entertaining.

The poignant scenes with Mickey makes Rocky an even more original and loveable character. They distinguish his character. Those moments in the film brought tears to my eyes.

This story is beautiful and Rocky is still a loveable and memorable character.

The movie has some humor to it too. Uncle Paulie is still a funny guy. One part that made me giggle was when Rocky told Adrian "I can't wait to get you upstairs and violate you like a parking meter".

I mean, how can you not laugh? It's funny.

This story also shows the true meaning of family. What really touched me is the love that Rocky still has for Adrian.

There are some flaws in the movie though. Rocky, Adrian, and Robert have all noticeably aged and Rocky has gone back to his mumbling ways. You got to turn up the volume a bit more to understand what Rocky is saying. Oh well. It's still good.

Btw, don't listen to the other crappy reviews. Go rent or buy this movie.