"Officers --- to work!!"  Colonel Saito

The soundtrack is awe-inspiring, alternating between the natural wilderness sounds of wildlife and insects calling and whirring in the depths of a sweltering southeast asian rainforest and then swelling into the whistling of World War II British POW work gangs and a stirring fully orchestrated marching tune.

The plot is an amazing blend of real life events with fiction, along the lines of the Great Escape and Stalag 17, both set in German war camps, being culled and amalgamated from the true experiences of brit and american pows.

The actors are all terrific.  To me, Guinness's Col. Nicholson wins with his water-to-wine, rabbit-from-a-hat bravery and love of his men.

I find it very difficult to read or watch stuff about the Pacific World War II theater, from Pearl Harbor to the Battan Death March to the Battle of Midway to Iwo Jima to Burma.  Scattered across all these places, in both marked and unmarked graves, are soldiers and civilians who lost their lives, many as prisoners of war.

They are free now, wherever they are.  Their deaths were not meaningless, and their deaths are connected to our lives, because we owe our freedom, those of us in the free world, that is, to the outcome of WWII.

People who simplistically talk about the 'pointlessness of war' do an injustice to those who have found themselves staring down the wrong end of a gun.  When your survival is at stake, then fighting for your freedom with whatever tools you have at hand doesn't seem pointless.

This movie would have been hard to watch too had I not originally seen it as a kid, when I really knew nothing at all so I just took it on face value.

The first thing that I noticed was the soldiers' whistling.  I don't know what the original words to the Col. Bogey March are, but I'm sure they are very colorful, along the lines of "I've don't know but I've been told...!" The g-rated kids version is: "Comet, it makes your teeth turn green, comet, it tastes like gasoline, comet, it makes you vomit, so drink some comet, and vomit, today!"

Of course, later I realized that the imprisoned soldiers are whistling to keep up their spirits, maintain order, etc.  I didn't realize they were supposed to be starving, bent over with dysentery and malaria, etc.  In fact, when I saw this, I was blissfully ignorant of the whole concept of death camps and death marches.

What I noticed later was the story of the bridge being built, falling down, being built better, and why it is built, why it should be destroyed, and how it all is played out while men are dying.

Monty Python's Flying Circus had a hilarious sketch that spoofed the war movies where the commander rousts malingering patients out of their beds to report for duty.  POWs on crutches and swathed with bandages are made to jog and do calisthenics, while a very Col. Nichols -ish John Cleese or Graham Chapman barks orders.

Is this a sign that Col. Nicholson has gone around the bend by this point in the proceedings?  Good question.

The men are being used as slave labor to build a bridge that will help the enemy.  Apparently word has come down to Saito that this bridge needs to be built, and that he is to use the British prisoners to build it.

But Saito has not been provided with any bridge engineers to oversee operations, or even a set of bridge building instructions, apparently, or at least, not any good ones.

Of course, it would behoove the British to not do a good job on the bridge.  In fact for them to do a good job on the bridge would seem to be giving aid and comfort to the enemy. So before Nicholson takes over the project, the work is being done haphazardly, either by incompetence or on purpose. But it turns out that Nicholson and his officers know a thing or two about bridge building, something akin to what an Army Corps of Engineers would be able to accomplish.

And for Nicholson and by extension the British Empire he represents to do something badly just goes against the grain.  Maybe it's counterintuitive to him, maybe it's that nature abhors a vacuum.

Also, Nicholson apparently decides that building the bridge well represents a goal, a carrot on a stick to keep morale up and, hopefully, prolong the lives of at least some of his enfeebled but tough men.

Some, including Major Shears, interpret Nicholson's forbidding his men to escape as bad leadership, a way of giving in and giving up to inevitable death.  On the other hand, the chances for survival if one did manage to escape were about on the level of someone escaping from a Siberian prison camp.

Col. Nicholson may just as well have told them to lay down and die for all the good it would have done anyone.  In fact, in terms of tying up the enemy's men and equipment, that was more effectively done by them staying in camp.  If they ran away, Col. Saito would only have spent a minimal amount of men and resources trying to catch them, since he knows they'll likely die out there anyway.

We all have had a painful realization that we've lost sight of the big picture.

At some point while trying to help his men survive, Nicholson has lost track of the part about not helping the enemy.  Hardly surprising considering the strain he is under.  It's not like he had a neat little guidebook, with reminders like "be sure to include secret exploding bolts in the bridge construction".

Nicholson's eventual, agonizing realization is the more dramatic as he has only seconds to try and fix his mistake.

For those who insist this is an anti-war picture, as that may well have been Lean's take on the story, but does that mean he thinks the soldiers and civilians in WWII who fought for freedom, did so in vain?  Does he think people should have just laid down and died, not tried to fight back?  I'd like to have seen him try to realize his artisic vision had things turned out differently.

The relationship between Alec Guinness/Col. Nicholson and Sessue Hayakawa/Col. Saito.  The dynamics of that are very complex.

Another reviewer commented on how excellent the commando team sent to destroy the bridge is.  Bedeviled by one problem after another, they adapt and move on under incredibly tough conditions. The women who are part of the team are just as tough as they help the men hack their way across the wilderness.

Also, the motivations of the commando team are complex and fascinating, and I haven't begun to meal over that in my watching of this film.  Reading the comments of other viewers has given me much to mull over next time I watch BOTRK.

This is a movie to be seen, and learned from, over and over and over again.