My family came to Newfoundland over two hundred years ago, I myself am a first generation imigrant from there. In the past ten years I have visited for the first time to discover my roots. And realized I had inheirited some land from my grandparents. I had thought about going up there after finishing school here in Atlanta GA, to spend some time there fixing up the auld place. A cousin recomended I read this book called, "The Shipping News," which I did, and loved it. The story somewhat reminded me of my own journey. Except for the crazed wife, and I don't have any kids. A lot of the locals had warned me that this book was based on a small portion of the populas, and in no way a representation of Newfoundland. Well after spending five summers there, I think it is very close to how it is, but I could never reveal this to the family. Of course I'm looking at it from an outsider from the southern states, but yet me mudder an me fadder we from der. The funny thing is I have such a southern accent, yet I understood every word I heard, even from the most remote parts of the island. All my friends in school would come over to the house, and ask, where are your mother and father from? when I told them, they had never heard of this place. Although it is like a step back in time, I felt as if I belonged there, and from the time I left, I have thought of how I could go back and live. Yes, it can be a harsh place, and ever since I heard that the book was turned into a movie, I have been the biggest advertisement this producer could imagine. I have been waiting eagerly for the movie to come to my area of Austell GA. And I have a lot of friends who want to see it as well, if for no other reason than to see where it is I come from, and the place I talk about all the time. I'm currently working on my own book called, "The Broken Branch," which details my families trail, which originally started out for the states, and were side tracked through Newfoundland from Scotland, and ended up staying there for over two hundred years. eventually they make it to the states. It's going to be a hot ticket, so keep your ears open!!!