Merchant Ivory movies are always beautiful, and thought provoking.  My favorite is still Maurice, but this was an intriguing film.

It's about the Wilcox family and the Schlegel siblings.  The Wilcoxs are a wealthy, conventional family in Edwardian England.  Henry Wilcox is a savvy businessman.  The Schlegels are deliberate in their eccentricity.  Look at us, we're Bohemian.  Margaret (Emma Thomas) is witty, sweet, but overly talkative.  Helen (Helena Bonham Carter) is a tad self-righteous and irritating.

The two families met while touring Europe.  A very brief romantic interest between Helen and Paul WIlcox leaves her humiliated.  I didn't understand why she should be so upset by a moment of interest that nobody but the two families knew about.  The families next meet when the Wilcoxs rent a London flat next to the Schlegel's home.  Margaret Schlegel and Ruth WIlcox, the frail wife of Henry, form a friendship.  On her deathbed, Ruth decides to give Howards End, her family country home, to Margaret.  The hospital sends Ruth's handwritten message to Henry Wilcox, after Ruth's death.  In a family meeting, the WIlcoxs decide not to honor Ruth's wish and not to let Margaret know.  A lot of people feel this shows what a nasty bunch the Wilcoxs are.  I can't help but wonder how many families would have done anything different.  Ruth's illness left her frail and somewhat confused.  The plan had always been that Howards End would go to her eldest son, Charles.  Margaret was a new friend, barely known by the rest of the family.  Really, how many families would turn over a much loved family home to a near stranger based on the deathbed whim of a confused invalid?  It was a questionable move, but one many if not most people would have made.  In an interesting twist, Margaret and Henry Wilcox form an attachment and eventually marry.

Meanwhile, Helen takes an interest in the Basts, a poor clerk and his blowsy wife.  However, this interest leads to her downfall and tragedy for the Basts, Schlegels and Wilcoxs.

This film gives the viewer a lot to think about and ponder long after the film is over.  Some of the characters actions seem surprising, and therefore, interesting.  Without giving away the ending, I will just say that it seemed a little ambiguous.

I should note, though this is essentially a drama, perhaps even a soap opera-ish drama, there are some very comical moments.  My favorite scene is when Charles Wilcox (played well by James Wilby) is driving Aunt Julie (played by the wonderful Prunella Scales) from the train station in an early motorcar.  She is in a tizzy because she has mistaken him for his brother.  He nearly has kittens when she stands up in the moving motorcar.  It's very, very funny.

Of course, since it is a Merchant Ivory film, it goes without saying that the scenery and sets are gorgeous, the acting is top notch, the music is gorgeous.  I just think this E.M. Forster novel is a little too open ended.  I enjoyed it, but I can't quite give it five stars.