Firstly, it was about time MPI released the complete Lost Honeymooners collection, as opposed to their previous piecemeal, poorly packaged multi-volume set of the same.  The new set is smartly packaged and notated, and includes episodes not included in the previous release (one wonders whether MPI was saving them for this -- another round of marketing!).  Additionally, trailers are included promoting new MPI collections of the color Honeymooners episodes from later Gleason shows, thus insuring yet ANOTHER round of profiteering.  The MPI stockholders must be happy, but these later episodes should have been included in this "complete" collection, for crying out loud.

OK, I'm done venting. I have little to add to the comprehensive reviews above but will contribute a few comments.  I'd looked forward eagerly to viewing the eight episodes of the Jackie Gleason Show featuring the Kramdens and Nortons traveling around the world (having won the Flakey-Wakies slogan contest), but was left with mixed feelings after seeing them.  There was a lot of singing and dancing, as musical comedies require, of course, but I found them a bit repetitive and over the top. Likewise, the cast bursting into song put me off and made the episode drag, and finally, the writing was not as crisp as one finds in the regular sketches. The worst of the lot may be the cast's trip to Africa in "I Remember Mau Au." (I'm surprised someone at MPI let that slip by -- the actual title of the episode was "I Remember Mau Mau.")  Of more interest to me were the openings of the show (with "glamorous" ladies introducing Gleason and cast) and the final moments of the show where Gleason would come out on stage, make a comment or two, bring the cast out for a curtain call, compliment musical director Ray Bloch ("the Flower of the Musical World") and thank the audience.

One unexpected joy in this set can be found in the Bonus Features disc: a well written "Honeymooners" parody from the Jack Benny Show (January 1958) starring Audrey Meadows, Benny as Ralph and Dennis Day as Norton.  I don't know what Benny drank or smoked before this performance, but it is immensely entertaining, surpassed only by Day's inspired impression of Norton.

Finally, it surprised me that the cast performed "Christmas Party" three times ('51-'53), each time with different guest performers.  MPI had previously included only the '53 episode with Frances Langford and that kid who belted out "Walkin' My Baby Back Home," but the earlier parties featured different guests, such as a young Frankie Avalon playing the trumpet and tap dancing, and a juggling kid with a tremendous act.  Needless to say, I enjoyed seeing the slight comic variations of the Gleason Show regulars who filled out the "Party" episodes from year to year -- Fenwick Babbit, the Poor Soul, Joe the Bartender, Rudy the Repairman, and especially Reggie VanGleason, who each year brought a different band with him and outdid himself dancing with the chorus girls.

In conclusion, while I have a bone to pick with MPI, I'm nonetheless grateful for this release and recommend it as essential viewing for fans of Gleason and company.