From reading the unfavorable reviews, I see that many watchers were nonplussed by things that an audience trained to enjoy action-film conventions would dislike.  First, not having omniscience of the plot and  all its details, to include the unrevealed contents of the case.  Second,  the relative economy of the dialogue, which wanted for pithy one-liners and  irrelevant references to pop culture.  Third, the small and localized  setting of the action, which seemed not to involve the security of the free  world, justice or some greater truth.
John Frankenheimer explains his  intent with great clarity when you turn the "Commentary" option  on.  He explains that the audience never learns the contents of the case  because it's really not important from the protagonists' point of view, and  I agree: these men have no desire to know what they will steal so long as  they are paid adequately.  It follows a sound logic.
As far as the  dialogue is concerned, I can enjoy the fact that the characters speak only  when it suits some purpose, and will often leave things unsaid for the  audience to wonder about.  For example, John Frankenheimer speaks briefly  about the man in the wheelchair, whom three characters discuss without this  man ever appearing in the film.  It's unimportant that we learn more about  him than his position as a fixer and procurer of talent for privately  funded, illegal operations requiring the skills of former secret  operatives.
I appreciate the ingenuity of its presentation.  In other  films, the operatives might have a sheet of information passed from  inviolate sources to plan their attack, or they could watch from high-orbit  satellites as they moved in.  The bit with DeNiro improvising a loud  metallic noise to test the reflexes of the opposing security team was  brilliant - the act of a smart and resourceful man with few assets beyond  his own intelligence.  When these characters speak, they imply a depth of  cunning and experience that shades the action in interesting ways.
Maybe  you didn't like it that much on its first viewing, but if you don't mind a  shift in your viewing paradigms, _Ronin_ is really satisfying.  Again, I  recommend the DVD but even renting and watching it twice should prove  entertaining...if you don't demand to be spoonfed by the films that you  watch.