This movie takes a revolutionary approach to the teen slasher flick - remove the slasher.  Instead of a dude in a mask, our photogenic heroes are up against Death himself.  Death doesn't need a butcher knife or a fisherman's hook to kill - the instruments of death are everywhere, from the slippery tiles in the bathroom to the can of turpentine in the garage.
The filmmakers make the most of style and atmospherics, loading the beginning of the film with almost subliminal foreshadowing, using subtle tricks of light, set, and sound design to enhance the feeling of foreboding.  The result is a film with a unique, look and feel to it, not another run-of-the-mill horror flick.
There's also a welcome sense of morbid humor at work here.  It's not precisely the satiric post-modernism of Scream. Rather, it's the blackest kind of comedy: we have to laugh at death, because we can't do anything about it.  
I can't say I cared enough about the characters to have an emotional stake in what happened to them, which is the film's only flaw.  Though they're more 3-dimensional than your typical cliched teens, they weren't real enough to elicit my sympathy.
Nevertheless, it's a finely crafted thriller, with genuinely disturbing scenes and grim humor amiably rubbing shoulders.  Some said this makes an inconsistent tone, I disagree.  Life itself is tragic one minute, comedic the next.  You just have to roll with it.  The comedic scenes don't diminish the horror, or vice versa.  
The DVD is a five-star treatment, with several deleted scenes leading up to an alternate ending that fell victim to audience testing.  It's a more philosophical ending, but almost ridiculous in its earnestness and not quite true to the spirit of the film; still, it's interesting to see.  There are also two commentary tracks, one with the filmmakers and one with the actors.  Add to that assorted documentaries and games, and you've got hours of fun.
Definitely a cut above your average teen-in-peril flick.  If you're a horror fan, you'll enjoy this.