I won't summarize what this film is about because everyone else already did.  I think it is very useful material and it does a good job at explaining how our current standard of living was built on the abundance of cheap oil and the assumption that cheap oil would last forever. The film also does a good job at challenging the rationality of these notions.  That's the informative and analytical part of the film, and it is really good.

As for possible solutions and predicting the future (the thought-provoking part), the predicted scenarios may be debatable, but bringing up some possibilities is necessary for the film to have a conclusion.  Personally, I think coal is dismissed too quickly in the film because of the polluting implications, but that sounds like too rational a reason to dismiss coal.  Already we have many congressmen from coal-rich states pushing for pro-coal legislation.  Americans will do anything it takes to preserve their way of life... That will come first, and the environment (e.g. all the pollution associated to using coal as the main source of energy) will come second.  That is my own prediction, anyway, and it is as debatable as the various scenarios advanced in the film.  Yet, the film is thought-provoking and that's good.

On a side note, I have to agree with some of the previous comments in that bringing up the Iraq war may not have been too clever. I don't intend to discuss whether the arguments put forward are correct or not. That is not my point.  My point is political and pedagogical: The clear political turn the film makes in its las 30 minutes is likely to turn off entire conservative audiences, which include many who need to be convinced about the seriousness of the energy supply problem and the need to think of creative solutions.  It also makes it difficult for those of us who are educators to show the entire film to our students.  Showing a film that features a rally where a sign that reads "Cheney you are an asshole" is prominently featured on the screen is just something you can only do very carefully if you are a college professor (especially if you are a college professor in a place where the government is popular.)  That alone would turn off many students and the pedagogical value of the film would be compromised.  But, of course, I can always omit that part.