Wow..What can I say? I grew up with this great Christmas show and even today,it still makes me feel good to watch it! I can't believe that some people are dissing it! I mean,what's to not like?? It's got great songs-great animation(even their fingers move!)and a happy ending for everyone! One reviewer went into alot of details and I'd like to answer it!
#1. Innocence does Not equal immaturity!
 2."65% of the movie is made up of songs"..well..it's a Musical ! Hello?!
 3."immature songs that are always happy, even in a dangerous situation"...Say what? It's a Kid's Christmas show! Did they expect ominous sad songs? And Dangerous situations?? Guess I missed em,cause,as far as I can see,the only "dangerous" part was Jingle and Jangle falling off for a few seconds of the reindeer,and no one was singing...and even then,they were caught right away! Did they mean when Mrs. Claus was talking to the Misers? Dangerous?  Where? They never menaced any of them-in fact they even sang and danced for them!
 4.Jingle and Jangle weren't clearly made out early on to be main characters? They should have Announced this??
 5. Characters are lacking "development"..uhh..it's a CARTOON?? Not Gone With the Wind..
 6. Flip-flopping story..hmm..let's see...a kid that didn't believe in Santa Claus "suddenly" believes in him Right After he actually Meets him..yep that's weird. And Santa being sick and in bed getting motivated into trying to save his friends Right After he hears about the trouble they've gotten into...again...Verrrry weird....
 7. Butttt..now that "gaping plothole" ! Jingle and Jangle ride down on the tiniest most fragile young reindeer("Vixen?? She's just a Baby..")into a hot Southern town where she gets sick,but Santa rides down Dasher-a burly tough older veteran male reindeer and Dasher's okey for the short while that Santa is there. Hmm...guess I'm a "fool to not notice this error"...probably for the simple reason that there Isnt any error...Big tough older male reindeer...tiny fragile young female reindeer...one gets sick-one doesnt! ! Amazing ! !
  For Pete's Sake,people! It's a Cartoon-made for Kid's! And one that everyone apparently Loves from all the reviews I've read here! Some people just try to think too much and like ruining things for others,I guess! It's got a full Five Star rating from almost 80 reviewers-only 1 or 2 seem to hate it! That's a little over 2% against to 97+% for !  There's a Real Easy solution to the problem! If you don't Like it-don't Watch it! But for the Rest of the world who already know what a great little cartoon this is-we'll just keep on watching it and Loving it each Christmas and so will our kids-for years and years to come! ! Santa is happy-Kids are happy-and the Miser brothers find out once again that they shouldn't mess with Mother Nature ! A Super Christmas Movie ! !