I am an enormous fan of satire, when it's done right. Examples: Pretty much everything from George Romero (The Living Dead trilogy, "Bruiser"), "American Beauty," and books by Kurt Vonnegut. The strongest plot thread of "Back to the Future Part II", ultimately the lesser of the trilogy, is the element of satire, which brings out a huge string of laughs as we are catapulted from one decade/century to the next. 1985 to 2015, 2015 back to an alternate 1985, then back to 1955, where we were in the first film. We see this in the form of greed, which is symbolized in a sports almanac that tells all the results of major sporting events for the last half of the 20th century, and in the form of the dependence we can have on technology. In essence, when can we go too far with our own "technological brilliance"? Time travel, as we have been repeatedly warned by many films, can be extraordinarily dangerous. "The consequences could be disasterous."
This is the element that makes "Back to the Future Part II" a great science fiction entertainment while still coming short of the masterpiece status that was achieved by the original and the final entry. Why? Mostly because it this is the second act in a trilogy. The second act is always much darker, as is true with "Empire Strikes Back" and others, but when you're talking about a cuckoo comedy series, darkness can put a damper on some of a film's tone. Zemeckis and his co-writer Bob Gale did their best to overcome this inevitable trap in every scene, and for the most part, they've succeeded, but not entirely. Some of this film, while it waves the flag of satire around, goes from wacky fun to downright depressing at times. But as a whole, that is totally okay, because when the film is over, we are left with the satire, and some amazing visual effects. You can tell that Bob Zemeckis was really coming into his own as a visual stylist with this film. The cast, mostly recruited from the original feature, minus the really hot original Jennifer (replaced by the highly recognizable Elizabeth Shue), settle right back into their roles nicely, taking their characters to the next level, as they should in a sequel. What went wrong with the later "Rocky" sequels goes right here: The characters continue to evolve and learn new things. Stallone put his fighting hero into a rut after a while, and produced an incredibly terrible dud known as "Rocky V", one of the worst movies ever made. Doc and Marty, on the other hand, are always adapting. Marty, mostly just a scared but witty kid in the original film, is slowly learning that he has to become a man of action in order to make things happen. Doc's emotions become much clearer as they should, after knowing Marty for 30 years as opposed to just a few. Their connection in this film, as they hop from one adventure to the next, isn't just a straight man-funny kid kind of thing: It's a real, interesting friendship, like Daniel-san and Mr. Miyagi in "The Karate Kid". And it is because of this that we truly do root for them as they try to stop Young Biff from enjoying his time with the priceless sports almanac too much, steal it back and reset the balance of good and evil in the space-time continuum.
I love all of these movies, and just because I'd rather watch the first and last doesn't make this one any less necessary. It's terrific, wacky fun; I enjoy it, and every satirical bone in it's entertaining body.