Too bad I cannot give this movie a 0 star.

How can we sit back and approve a movie about a horrible human being like Kinsey?

How can Hollywood create such a movie.  First Larry Flint, and now Kinsey. Sheesh!

Kinsey's theories and his life are evil on the same level that Hilter's theories about the Jews and his life were evil.

As other reviewers have noted, Kinsey was not alone in what he was trying to do, in separating sex from love, commitment, childbearing, and decency, taking a set of God-given feelings out of their natural and human-relationship-building context.

Even though he was not the first, Kinsey's psuedo-science was used to justify many a seduction by many a man seeking to get a woman to bed without loving her.  His false science has been used to "prove" a prevalence of homosexuality that in fact does not exist and to "prove" to many a predatory male that his seduction of a child is a good and natural thing.

Alfred Kinsey is behind the priest pedophile scandal in the Catholic Church, because the bishops believed the sex experts. And the priest pedophile's believed Kinsey and his ilk. Why is a society that believes in Kinsey's theories so angry about the priest pedophiles? They were only doing what Kinsey taught is a good and natural thing. After all the outrage, I would think that the proponents of child sexual exploitation would lie low for a while. But instead, Hollywood makes a movie about the man that started it all.

Alfred Kinsey is behind the justification of psychologists in journals that I have read that say the only harm that comes to children who are sexually molested by adults is when the mothers discover the molestation and make a fuss. Alfred Kinsey is behind the huge change in this society, and it is not a good change.

Dr. Judith Reisman, Ph.D., has publicized the fact that 86% of Kinsey's so-called normal subjects were really pedophiles, convicts, and pimps. His "findings" from this class of perverts have been used to normalize behaviors that are rank and abnormal.

It's a sin and a shame.

Any of you reading this might be startled to hear about the world before Kinsey. People used to marry and then make love and set up housekeeping together. Divorce was so uncommon it was a scandal. Everyone agreed it was wrong to leave a husband or wife for someone new.

Young women and men didn't get turned out en masse to emotionless sex at an early age, and they didn't have to face the pain of going through one "relationship" after another somehow hoping that love could be created out of using. They didn't marry after years of indecision about whether their live-in mate was the "right" person, and they didn't marry thinking that divorce was an easy out if something or someone better came along.

Of course, the worst thing is Kinsey's "data" collection about child sexuality. Instead of turning in a man who sexually abused thousands of children, Kinsey eagerly collected his data about that pervert's inducing orgasms--even in babies.

This man deserves a movie glorifying his life? What kind of a world are we living in?