First of all, anyone who tells you they hated this movie simply did not give it a chance. People who can bring up all the little inconsistancies of the movie obviously spent more time looking for them than actually watching  the movie. Being a meteorology student studying severe weather, I can  safely say that some of the "impossibilities" in the movie can  actually have have actually happened before. Tornadoes are a scientific  anomoly that we don't know everything about. The plot is rather unique,  considering no other movie has ever featured tornadoes as the main  attraction. A group of rag-tag storm chasers roams across the plains  Oklahoma is search of tornadoes in an effort to study them, hoping to  develop an advanced warning system (which is desperatly needed in many  parts of the country). Their plan is to deploy a large steel drum filled  with sensors into an approaching tornado. This is where fantasy and reality  take two totally seperate paths. Real-life storm chasers would never try to  get as close as the chasers in the movie did. But after all, this is an  action movie, and if it had stuck to formalities, the movie would have been  very boring. The sub-plot was considerably weak, though. Jo (Helen Hunt)  and Bill (Paxton), are finalizing a divorce which Jo is trying desperatly,  but subtly, to get out of. Before starting the days chase, Bill comes by  with a new fiance to get the divorce papers. Jo is planning on trying to  get him back for the group, if not only for herself. After discovering that  Jo and her team have finished a project that he had started (the sensor  package), he is convinced to stay for the day and help them chase. Events  transpire and it becomes evident that Bill is "back." The  dialogue, which was blasted by all sorts of critics, is quite suited for  the film in my opinion. Many complained that it was too basic, dull, plain,  lacking depth, whatever other adverb you can think of. But if you stop to  think about it, would you have an in-depth conversation about  tornadogenesis with your team while a tornado is bearing down upon you? I  don't think so. Besides, 3/4 of the people who saw it, saw it because of  the special effects. They are spectacular, but the only complaint I had was  that they made the tornadoes appear out of pathetic looking status clouds,  rather than the jaw dropping rotating wall clouds and supercell  thunderstorms that most tornadoes come from. This is a great movie, because  it has such homely appeal. I couldn't imagine this movie with Tom Cruise or  Jennifer Aniston. It reflected the laid back attitude of the mid-west,  which added to the film's effect. Definetly worth seeing.