One day when the kids were home I forced them to watch this story on PBS.  Fast forward a few years.  My youngest daughter needed a history fair project and she chose this story.  Her history teacher did not know this story nor did her classmates.  She won the history fair at her school with a dramatic reacreation in which two of her friends also played some of the characters.  My daughter plays the guitar and played amazing grace for the scene where the mom sees her boy in a coffin and allows the world to see her 14 year old and what racism had done to him.  He was almost unrecognizable.  I can't imagine the strength of that mom to show the true color of racism.  My daughter and her friends went and competed in the regional history fair and THEY WON!  They are now scheduled to perform in the State fair.  It is the first time the middle school has ever won the history fair in over 30 years.  We purchased this so she could share the original inspiration she had when she saw the story.  For those who have not heard of Emmitt Till, he was a 14 year old black boy who whistled at a white woman.  He was taken that night and murdered by the white bubba's that ran the town.  They were tried by an all white jury and were NOT convicted even though they admitted to the crime.  Double jeopardy assured they were never tried again.  In 2002 the Till Bill was enacted that allows a re-trial when all white juries exonerated defendants based on their color.  They can now be re-tried.  It is too late as all the players are long gone but it rights an injustice that started on that day when a 14 year old was ripped from his moms arms for whistling.  My daughter and her team mates now have an interview with Emmitt Tills cousin who is still living and they also get to have a conference with either the president or vice president of the NAACP.  They compete in May and if they win there they go on to Washington to compete at the national level.  This story had a great impact on my children and it really is a good way to get teens to look at racism and relate it back to them being a teen.  As a parent I highly suggest this be one of the stories that your teens see.