I can remember when I read about Zombie Strippers. First off this isn't your typical Zombie movie. You'll understand that when I give my review. So without any further hesitation here it is.

Zombie Strippers:

On the surface Zombie Strippers seems like your typical Zombie movies. There is a little twist at the end that ties it together but I won't be posting any spoilers to let the viewer decide for themselves. The basic story is a Government agency employs a skilled group of Mercs who are trying control a Zombie virus which is active in the X chromosome and is pure among women, but around men it makes them ravaging lunatics. The movie pokes fun at both men, and women in this instance but doesn't stay around too long, instead moving forth to the conflict. The virus spreads to "Rhinos" where some very interesting things erupt. Including a Jenna Jameson shot involving golf balls, and cue balls. This is definitely not a zombie movie for your girlfriend. If anything its to be watched with a group of your buddies during Poker night.

The effects are spot on and a few of them even had me cringing.You've got more topless action than you can poke a stick at including one full nude scene, that quips a reaction you wouldn't expect.

Robert Englund is gold as the sleazy club owner. Jenna Jameson, and Roxi are gold in their parts. The zombies talk, and are given a personality, all while the consequences of greed, and government intrusion are explored.

Some people may not like this because the social tones are not what they'd expect, and the budget doesn't work for them. They nit pick the acting in it. But I enjoyed the movie. It's fun, and doesn't take itself too seriously. The story can be a bit predictable, but it was a nice diversion from everything else you've seen. Ortiz has a bit part. But all in all you should enjoy this movie. If you don't like strippers, and nudity you won't like this. If you like all the elements mixed for something different than you will.

This is a zombie movie with comedy elements.