This movie is a great idea for a story, but so poorly executed that I ended up turning it off to watch an old Marty Feldman flick because I just couldn't take it any more.  The whole movie can be summarized by this:  there are a lot of scenes which appear to be artistic but convey no point, and have no meaning.  The plot is simple and leads up to a classic confrontation ... which never happens because the main nemesis in the movie gets killed in a random car crash before the confrontation.  Throw in a lot of gratuitous product placement (Mepps comes to mind), poorly written dialogue, cheesy emotional music reminiscent of Titanic, irrational and flat characters (lots of them), and extremely long, boring chunks of film where NOTHING happens, and then add in a bunch of half-baked "background" scenes, and you have a high-budget movie which Hollywood can make a buck off of.  That's it.  I'm sure the actors in the movie have some talent.  The Del Toro performance (which is so short as to give us, the viewers, no real indication as to what motivations or feelings might have dwelt in the character) was perhaps the only thing worth watching in the movie, and it lasted maybe two paltry minutes.  If we were really meant to suspend our disbelief and think that maybe he was the culprit, it would be a good thing to spend more than five minutes total on developing the character before having him conveniently kill himself.  The alternating close-up shots of the main character's eyes, the clock, and random objects in the character's field of view make me think ... hmmm, this seems to be a film that somebody is trying to get artistic with.  Too bad the artistic scenes really had nothing to do with the movie, and were really just annoying interruptions.  The behavior of the cops in the movie was atrocious - sadly this may be fairly true-to-life, but in the movie it just comes across as another poorly constructed reason for the main character to honor his "Pledge."  Mr. Nicholson should have turned down this role, he's done good work in the past but this was [terrible].  Del Toro did some good work, but was given absolutely NOTHING to work with.  Everybody did their job well, but the whole thing was brought together very poorly.  Think to yourself:  "how would Alfred Hitchcick have done this?"  and I think you'll be on the right track; the movie could very well have been done by him, in which case it might have been a blockbuster that people would be talking about for ages.  As it stands, the fairly interesting story was butchered and nobody will even remember it in two years.