I LOVE history and after watching the film "Frost/Nixon", I was disappointed in Richard Nixon. I was like, "Is he really that wimpy?" I realize that Hollywood puts their little 'spin' on things, so I actually researched for better information. Watching a few YouTube videos, I saw the Nixon that I knew and respected. Yes, respected. He was a brilliant man, despite the flaw and error on judgement. But that goes deeper than the public was allowed to know - check out his connection to Howard Hughes...but I digress LOL. So, I came to Amazon to see if I could find the REAL video of the Frost/Nixon interviews for both myself and my dad. I did! And at a great price!!!!

I watched it all and LOVED it! You saw the real Nixon in his articulate genius and you saw his raw, real, human emotion. You did not see a wimp (like the movie portrayed). You saw a man trying to show honesty, but still keep his character. To have ALL of the interviews at this price, was fantastic!!! I totally recommend anyone to get it!

And I also urge you to research real life events that Hollywood recreates. You'd be surprised to know the REAL facts and not the 'glorified' images that they sell us to make a hit-flick or control our emotions like some robot. "300" was NOT fought by just 300 men. They had a whole marine fleet, along with a HUGE army of men + their best 300 men on the front line. But the movie would make you think that those lone 300 men did all of that battling until the very end. LOL, not true! They were the best trained and were on the front line, but they had several thousand men behind them to assist. Just like "Frost/Nixon". They made him mooshy and act like a wuss. Nixon was nothing like that.

I am glad that I purchased this DVD and got to see history in the making. I was too young to appreciate it at the time. And my dad never saw the actual interviews, despite his immense interest in history and current events also. So he was very pleased, as was I.

Get it! It's great!!!!!!

- Shaz