Well, I'll be darned.  This film was a very nice surprise.  An engagingly funny, intelligent, and warm comedy that, while not above a bawdy joke or two, still manages to present characters that feel substantial and real.  I wish I'd seen it sooner.

I don't know quite what I was expecting with this film - though I suspect I had visions of past films like "Superbad," "Pineapple Express," and "Knocked Up"; which is to say, broadly funny films that had heart but also a fairly good deal of raunchy humor.  I enjoyed them all, in a modest way, but I've also recently begun to grow a bit weary of that style. (Call it the Judd Apatow formula of comedy - `Mucho raunchiness + heart.')

So, unwilling to plunk down a chunk of change to buy a movie that I had vague doubts about, I checked "Adventureland" out from my local library some two weeks before actually watching it.  I'd keep eyeing the movie's casing as it sat there on the shelf by my television, day after day, before opting to watch something else (or even, god help me, grabbing a book).  But last night, I broke down - for I had little else to do (well, that and the fact that my librarians were practically begging for me to bring the movie back); I'm glad I did.

The director, Greg Mottola (who also made the "Superbad"), opts to skip a majority of the raunchy humor this time around (though there is a repeated gag about one kid hitting another in the unmentionables) for a brand of humor that is a little more subtle.

As other reviews have noted, this film is definitely not "Superbad" - even though it was marketed in a manner that suggested the two films were very much the same.  Where "Superbad" was a raunchy, if sweet-natured, film about the adolescent transition between high school and college, "Adventureland" is a quieter, slightly more contemplative film - apt, given that it is about lost, wayward, and awkward twentysomethings transitioning from college into real life.  The jokes here grow more from the comedy of human longing and emotion than they do from bodily function.

The cast is first rate - in some cases, surprisingly so.  Jesse Eisenberg, whom I had already seen in "Zombieland" and "The Social Network" - seems to have cornered the market on playing socially awkward roles.  He does it well, but here adds in a nice tinge of sweetness to his lead role of James.  He is genuinely believable as a smart kid with large dreams who is somewhat surprised to find himself working at a seedy amusement park.  Ryan Reynolds turns in a solid, nicely underplayed performance as a local lothario, and - quell surprise - Kristin Stewart proves her detractors wrong by turning in a skilled performance as an emotionally troubled kid who falls for Eisenberg.  As a bonus, "Freaks and Geaks" alum Martin Starr and SNL vets Bill Hader and Kristin Wiig give very funny supporting turns as denizens of the amusement park.

After watching this film, I had a feeling similar to the one that I got from watching the comedy "My Idiot Brother," with Paul Rudd.  For though the laughs were there in plenty, I couldn't shake the feeling that in its own, quiet way, this film was just so very, very nice.  And I mean that as a real compliment.