I last saw Don't Look Back when I was a kid. I've always like Dyaln's music and his importance in changing pop culture. 35 years had gone by since I saw the film. I bought the film on a weekend whim, figuring it would be entertaining, and perhaps a bit nostalgic.

The film is far more than just a candid, grainy black and white behind the scenes chronicle of Dylan's last acoustic tour in 1965. It was the birth of cinema verite. Don Pennebaker spoke at a film class I was in several years after the film came out, and described how he had a devised a system that used the quartz movements of the Acutron watches (one of the world's first electric watch movements) which were accurate to 1 second a month, and used them to sync film and sound recording independent of each other. This meant that film and sound no longer needed to be tethered to each other via cable to provide synced sound with images; and *that* allowed the filmmakers to be far less obstrusive than documentarians had been to that point. Most of the people in the movie have little awareness that they are being filmed, let alone filmed for posterity, and the results are wonderfully candid.

But most striking is observing Dylan's maturation as an adult and cultural icon over the course of the film. On his arrival in England, he's a bit feckless and precious. Clever and immature. Under the wing of Joan Baez, who at that point must have thought that she might be invited to share the tour with her young protege. But it's soon clear that Dyaln is the hippest person in any room, his appeal and intellectual depth transcending his entourage and every situation he enters. By the time, later in the film, that he has the famous encounter with Terry Ellis (the Science Student) and the man from Time magazine, he's a different person from the first scenes. Baez has disappeared with no explanation. Albert Grossman has moved to the background, after his great confrontation with the hotel manager earlier in the film. The Dylan at the end of the movie is sharper, more acerbic, and looks older... and it's just a few weeks later. Somewhere during this tour Dylan eschewed his folky roots (as seen in archival footage of him singing Pawn in the Game early in the film) and explodes as a genuine pop star... the man everyone wanted to be. Amazing.

Just as amazing is that when this film was made in 1965, Bob Dylan already had a substantive body of work, and had just turned electric (there's an early scene in the hotel listening to a test pressing of Maggie's Farm). He was just becoming the rock star Dylan that caused so much controversey at the time. And here it is 40 years and 30 albums later, and he's *still* discussed almost as much as he was then. I can't think of any other entertainer whose career has been as relevant for as long a time as he has. Amazing...

This film is a must for anyone who wants to understand how our music and culture took a sharp turn many years ago. Pennebaker's methods were a revolution in film making that caught a revolution in the making. Great stuff.