Although this revolution happened before my time, Sergio Leone's epic "Man with No Name" trilogy forever changed the Western.  Instead of one man hamming it up (see any of the horrendous westerns with John Wayne) or a great hero coming in to save the day ("High Noon" with Gary Cooper, or "The Magnificent Seven" with Yul Brynner), these stories are truly adventures.  Even those who aren't fans of non-traditional westerns may appreciate this collection.

With the first movie, "Fistful of Dollars", the spaghetti western was born.  This movie is full of action and drama.  Clint Eastwood plays the man with no name (occasionally called "Joe" in this movie), who comes to a town divided by two brutal but cowardly factions.  In the style of Kurosawa's "Yojimbo", Eastwood joins *both* gangs, and pits them against one another, destroying them both in the end and liberating the town.  This movie is a bit slower paced than the other two, but is a wonderful story in its own right.  The score in this movie also isn't as great as the other two, and the sound quality is pretty poor.  Still, it's definitely worth owning.

The second, "For a few dollars more", blows the first one out of the water.  In my opinion, this vastly underrated movie is in many ways just as good as the much more famous third, "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly".  Clint Eastwood and Lee Van Cleef are both extraordinary in this movie, as two bounty hunters who are forced to join together in their quest in order to survive.  The story is filled with complex characters who you never completely find out, but who you come to respect and admire.  There is a great dramatic shootout at the end, culminating in a one-on-one battle between Van Cleef and the villain, "El Indio", that really leaves you smiling in awe.  The sound quality is better in this one, and the score adds so much to this already great movie that you'll have a hard time getting it out of your head.  Until you see the third.

"The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly" is truly the gem of this trilogy, and its only failing is it doesn't contain all of the extras found in the enhanced/special edition DVD.  Three men, "The good" (Eastwood), "the bad" (Van Cleef), and "the ugly" (Eli Wallach) are all involved in a hunt for a great store of cash, $200,000.  Wallach plays the treacherous, selfish "Tuco", and undoubtedly steals the show.  He's someone with virtually no redeeming qualities, yet somehow I found myself cheering for him during the movie.  Van Cleef does a 180 from his role in "for a few dollars more", playing the most villainous of the three.  Alliances are formed, broken, and reformed as they search for the grave containing the loot.  They cross hundreds of miles of desert, cross through a war-torn land, and all reach the site at the same time.  Perhaps the most suspenseful of all shootouts follows as the three square off at the end.  I feel I cannot do this movie justice in a written review, you must see it for yourself.  This is, to me, the greatest western ever made!