This is THE best film about the psychedelic movement in the sixties. As a matter of fact it's also one of the best movies ever made: period.
The plot, the characters, the cinematography, the themes, the soundtrack, the music, the acting... everything about it is genuine and really the way things were happening for many people at that time. I was 17 years old and drawn into the psychedelic bohemian culture as a youth trying to escape boring suburbia and dead end existence much the way James Fox's character was running away from a way of life he couldn't go back to, and had experiences which were like this in so many ways.
It is, by design, a very disturbing film. The movie starts with a violent sex scene and we're introduced to Chas, played by James Fox; an enforcer for the London mob and also someone who loves the Playboy magazine lifestyle as so many did in those days.
He was a young professional with his whole life ahead of him trying to build a successful career doing what he did best: making people understand that his boss was their boss and that's the way the world works. At a certain point, he runs afoul of his boss by doing his job too well. He crosses the line and suddenly he's in mortal danger and must leave everything behind until things cool down. He has to find a place to stay, and quick.
From that point, mounting tension is created through every scene, each building upon the last, thereby also creating urgent questions at the end of each until it reaches a pinnacle where Chas suddenly has a vision, which like a bolt of lightning, ties together his current dilemma and long term life predicament and enables Chas to realize who he really is and where he stands in both worlds.
The music is the very best track the Stones ever recorded with some of the most outrageous lyrics you've ever heard;recorded first with Eric Clapton on lead, which was canned, then re-recorded with Ry Cooder, who also does several other tunes in the movie, along with other songs by Randy Newman, Merry Clayton, and others.
It was on Netflix for awhile and they took it off recently, probably because of complaints about the nudity and (live, they say) sex, violence, gay sexual themes, drug use, etc... At the time it was made, the industry was clueless about how to rate it. Nudity and sex in films were almost non-existent if barely legal when it came out. I watched it many times on there, just to again admire the still revolutionary (to this day) techniques used in the production of it.
This film is a cinematic masterpiece.