Don Juan was Errol Flynn's last great glimpse of that romantic, sword-swinging swashbuckler that we remember so well from those pirate-thrillers Captain Blood (1936), The Seahawk (1940), and his most "merrily" embraced role in The Adventures of Robin Hood (1938) as the title character.

Flynn's personal life was even doubly glamorous. He was an unabashed hedonist, a womanizer (he was accused of statutory rape in 1942 but later acquitted), and a wild prankster. To fool with some of his Hollywood pals, he stole the corpse of his friend John Barrymore and propped the body on a coach holding a drink. He was also notorious for his nonstop drinking. When banned from having alcohol on the set of a movie, Flynn injected vodka into oranges and ate them during his downtime. All this had its effects, on his acting, which he never took seriously, and his looks, which surely he did. And so his performances in the years following WWII became almost lackluster, along with his public's interest. It was only when Warner Bros. re-released his earlier successes Robin Hood and The Seahawk that his fandom resurged, and the studio decided to stick him in The Adventures of Don Juan.

It opens with our romantic rogue-hero in England, where he learns that a woman he has wooed left out pertinent information about her marital status. He and his sidekick Leporello (Alan Hale, who had starred alongside Flynn in countless films, and who would be dead within a year) flee the angry husband and seek refuge in a procession. Juan suddenly finds himself on his way to be married. His bride-to-be turns out to be one of his myriad former lovers from France, originally set to marry in a diplomatic arrangement some other stiff for whom Don Juan is now confused. She would much prefer the dashing Don, but when he is found out he is sent back to Spain in disgrace. However, his acquaintanceship with Spain's ambassador wins him an opportunity to prove himself valuable as an instructor at the royal fencing academy. Soon, he finds himself in the middle of some sticky business, as the corrupt Duke De Lorca is manipulating the king into directing the country's resources into the military. Juan finds the queen (played by the amply gorgeous Viveca Lindfors) more receptive to the needs of her people, and he develops a great respect for her, soon falling in love with her. When treachery makes its move, Juan must save the day with the aid of his students.

 It does bear strong resemblances to his earlier Robin Hood, as Warner Bros. recycled several of its scenes. That may or may not be a downer, but all those swashbucklers followed the same formula anyway. So watch it for two reasons: to see Errol Flynn come back to life for the last time, for later films such as the miserable Kim (1950) certainly prove he won't, and because it's just fun. Humorous, tongue-in-cheek, and light-hearted throughout - trust me, you don jaunt to miss it.