A Nightmare 7? But Freddy died in part 6! Yes, and this movie does not take that back. Wes Craven returns to the Nightmare series for the first time since his work on Nightmare on Elm Street 3: Dream Warriors. Originally titled Nightmare on Elm Street 7: The Ascension, Wes Craven's New Nightmare is an original idea with masterful presentation.
In our reality, we are reintroduced to Heather Langenkamp (the actress who played Nancy Thompson in Nightmare 1 & 3) who is now married and has a young boy. She has a nightmare about a new Freddy movie, a new glove design, and the death of her husband. Trying to live her own life out of the shadow of Nancy, we learn Heather is being called by a stalker who thinks he's Freddy. Life seems quiet until Newline Cinema wants Heather to reprise her role as Nancy in a new Nightmare movie written by Wes Craven himself. Heather is unsure of what to say as she begins seeing strange things occur. Her young son is scared of a mean, old man who he claims is trying to get into their world. Plus, as soon as Heather learns that her husband is working on a brand new design for Freddy's glove, he meets a terrible fate. What's move disturbing is that Heather is not the only one having a rough time. Robert Englund (actor who plays Freddy) and Wes Craven are all having dark dreams. Heather is soon forced into a real life battle with a dark force that likes being Freddy. And only a new Nightmare movie will contain the darkness. 
This movie succeeds in bringing back the darkness to Freddy that was lost around Nightmare 2 and 3. The acting is superb and Nightmare fans should keep their eyes open during the funeral sequence for old Nightmare veterans such as Tuesday Knight (Kristin in Nightmare 4), Nick Corri (Rod Lane in Nightmare 1), and John Saxon (Lt. Thompson in Nightmare 1 & 3).
Overall, a spectacular sequel that certainly revives a lot of faith in the Nightmare series that may have faded over the years. Its hard for fans to not cry for more after the end of this movie. Highly recommended.