One of the more scholarship-worthy films of the past ten years is A.I.: Artificial Intelligence.  The merits of the film do not lie in the plot, crafting or acting, but rather the happy dance of compromise by the two architects of the film, Steven Speilberg (director) and Stanley Kubrick (writer/developer).  With radically different ideas about drama, ambiguity and continuity, the marriage of these two artists seemed impossible.  But after Speilberg took over for the late Kubrick and picked up the film, A.I. became the most interesting collaboration in recent history, and to date is the most unconventional film of Speilberg and the most populist of Kubrick.

The same type of compromise is at work in True Romance, a film directed by Tony Scott (Top Gun) and written by Quentin Tarantino (Pulp Fiction).  Without getting into filmmakers on the margins of Hollywood, no two creators are more different.  Disagree?  Try to find commonalities in Pulp Fiction and Top Gun.  And so, like A.I., True Romance becomes a child whose very existence speaks to the differences in the aesthetics placed on the craft of filmmaking by its two fathers.

True Romance follows Clarence, a comic book store employee with a fascination for Elvis and Kung Fu, and his new bride Alabama, a former call girl who takes pride in only turning three tricks.  After they are married, Clarence goes after his wife's former pimp and comes away with a suitcase full of cocaine.  Unsure of how to unload their new score, the self proclaimed "minimum wage kids" head off to California to try to sell their product in one big transaction to a movie producer who is a friend of a friend of Clarence.  With mafiosos on their tall and the police closing in on them, the film climaxes with Taratino's favorite device, the Mexican Stand-off, with bodyguards, cops and mobsters all pointing guns at each other.

A better cast has never been put together, but much of that is owed to luck, as future superstars litter the scenes in extra roles.  Made in 1993, the film features performances by Brad Pitt, Sam Jackson and James Gandolfini (Tony Soprano) all before they became Hollywood power-players.  In addition, the principle cast features solid stars like Christian Slater, Rosanna Arquette, Dennis Hopper, Gary Oldman, Val Kilmer, Michael Rappaport and Christopher Walken doing what Christopher Walken does: walk into a movie, spend five minutes on screen and create a moment that no viewer will forget.

The earmarkings of Tarantino are everywhere: the long monologues, the super cool criminals and the references to Kung Fu, Elvis and comic books.  But Tony Scott creates a film from the original script that will be enjoyed by many folks turned off by Tarantino's avaunt gaurde form of directing.  The film does not contain a confusing narrative and does not end with ambiguous questions.  Rather, Scott does with this script what he does with most of his films: he makes a conventional film with a happy ending that most people will understand.  At the very least, this is a lesson in collaboration.