As we all know,the 1980's saw the release of more action films than had been released before. These films of that era set the standards for action films of not only the 80's,but also for the 90's and today. And,out of all of those great action films that arised from the 80's,one of them happens to be,by far,the first "Lethal Weapon" film. The first LW film has everything that every action film needs--action,drama,suspense,and even a little bit of humor. The Director's Cut edition of the film,by far,does not only a good job at updating "Lethal Weapon" from its original 1987 release,but also showing action film fans themselves the keys to what made action films as good and successful as they are today.

After this movie has opened and the scene for this movie premise has already been displayed,this film goes into the life of Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover). While Murtaugh has received a lot of respect for his work as a soldier in the Vietnam War and his work as a Los Angeles Police Officer,lately,things have not been going well for him. Not only is Murtaugh finding himself getting old as he approaches his fiftieth birthday,he and his wife are finding themselves having a hard time with their teenage daughter,Rianne (Traci Wolfe). This is due to Rianne not only dating,but also getting into a lot of trouble and is making parenthood harder for not only Roger,but also for his wife Trish (Darlene Love).

Following this introduction for this film,a little bit of Roger Murtaugh's past life that this movie does not show (but does talk about)comes with this film's viewers meeting one of Roger's old friends who served with Roger in Vietnam,Michael Hunsaker (Tom Atkins). And while Roger hopes that seeing Michael again will make things better for him,he is proven wrong. After Roger has gotten back in touch with Michael,Roger learns that Michael's daughter,Amanda,has not only commited suicide,but had been poisoned before her suicide had been committed. Michael wants Roger to track down the men who are responsible for Amanda's death,and,for Roger,a kind man who is willing to help out a friend,Roger takes the assignment and helps the LAPD track down Amanda's killers.

However,despite the kindness of Roger Murtaugh allowing Murtaugh to be kind enough to help find the killers of Amanda Hunsaker,the one thing that Murtaugh hates about being a cop is something that Murtaugh knows that he will have to deal with for the case. That one thing is a partner.

What the bad thing about Murtaugh's new partner is not only the concept of having to get along and work with a partner,but who his new partner is. His new partner is Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson),an infamous and disrepcted cop among the Los Angeles Police Department. Riggs,who has been suicidal ever since the death of his wife,is known by every member of the LAPD to be good at his work,but a cop who is suicidal and psychotic,and hard to get along with. And once Roger Murtaugh has started working with Martin Riggs to solve the case of Amanda Hunsaker's murder and bring down Amanda's killers,Murtaugh has the problems with Riggs that everyone claims are Riggs' problems. At the same time,Murtaugh and Riggs find that they both hate each other,cannot get along,and do not want to work together anymore. However,Murtaugh and Riggs cannot keep up their problems forever,once they have found out more information about the murder of Amanda Hunsaker,pointing up to a dangerous and psychotic (a lot worse than Riggs is)drug dealer by the name of Mr. Joshua (Gary Busey)and his assistant,a former general of the Vietnam War named Peter McAllister(Mitchell Ryan).

It is worth noting that when "Lethal Weapon" was first released,the driving force of the film was not only the character of Martin Riggs,but Mel Gibson's portrayal of Riggs,as well. The story/script for this film was intended to be for the psychotic sides and the suicidal sides of Martin Riggs' to be what kept Riggs and Roger Murtaugh alive and helped both Riggs and Murtaugh fight Mr. Joshua,General McAllister,and their team of men. This is what helped make the film become as successful as it did,and due to that,the first "Lethal Weapon" film (along with LW2 and LW3)being issued as a Director's Cut. This brings in new scenes to "Lethal Weapon",in an attempt to not only make the film more interesting and more exciting than it was upon its original release,but to also show the chemistry of Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh--individually from each other,and together,as a team. The Director's Cut of this,"Lethal Weapon 2",and "Lethal Weapon 3" (LW4 has not been released as a Director's Cut as of yet)all look good on VHS,but with no special feautures being on this VHS (same thing going for the Director's Cut of LW2 and LW3),I recommend purchasing the Director's Cut of this on DVD (it has everything that this VHS has,with the addition of bonus feautures that this does not have),along with the DVD Director's Cut of LW2 and LW3,along with LW4 on DVD (be warned--a DVD box set of the four LW films IS available,but contains the ORIGINAL three LW films along with the only version of LW4,the director's cuts of the first three LW films are NOT available within the set).

Overall,a solid action film that is one of the best films to ever hit Hollywood. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are excellent together in this film as a team,and bring the chemistry of this film and its script to life. Gary Busey's portrayal of Mr. Joshua does the same thing for this film--with the difference and addition of the character of Mr. Joshua fighting the characters of Riggs and Murtaugh on his OWN and opposite team. The story here is also very clever,and is a very smart story,especially for an action film. If you like action films,this is one film that you do not want to miss out on,and you do not want to forget the three other LW films,as well.

5/5