The Child Factor: We went without the kids. While the film remarkably contains no cursing or overtly sexual overtones (just a little kissy-kissy on the couch between MJ and her boyfriend) there is still some violent imagery. Though none of it is graphic meaning bloody and gory nor prolonged, if your kids have a fear of actual spiders or multi-limbed "monsters" in general, the imagery of the villian may disturb them. I also noted that a couple of trailers may bother the young ones. Particularly there was a preview for an "Anaconda" sequel that could be freightening for them.

 The Review: Often a "something 2" movie tends to be "darker". This means that the makers take off the gloves and up the ante with more violence, a more sinister and morbid feel and in some cases an overdoing of special effects. I don't feel that this movie falls into that trap.

 Peter, besides a new villian to battle, has a more intangible foe challenging him this time around: his own personal demons. He has a love for MJ that he can't share with her, he has a conflict with his best male friend who beleives that Peter is "protecting" the identity of the man who killed his father, not knowing his dad was the evil Green Goblin. Additionally, he is carrying the guilt he feels for causing his uncle's death by not stopping the robber who ultimately murdered Ben in the first release. To top it off, his material life is falling apart. He loses his job, has to duck his landlord who's owed back rent, and lives in a real crappy apartment. (which is refreshing real as opposed to the huge lofts or suites that movie characters always seem to have in cities with a high cost of living despite the lack of a discernable job or other means of income.)

 Peter deals with the threat of the villian and his personal problems as a human being instead of relying solely on his powers to bail himself out. Perhaps a nod to the failure when tried to do that in order to win enough money to buy a car to impress MJ. What insues is an intersting character study of a honest young man with a gift that he didn't ask for and a resulting life that is complicated to say the least. I actually felt more tension from his internal struggles than the external one having to battle "Doc Oct" as Jamison calls him.

 Without playing the spoiler role all I will say is that Peter follows his heart and instincts as he addresses a web of evil, love, friendship, redemption, and destiny, both in and out of costume. The effects and visual are great and there is a definite stylistic mood of a Spiderman movie which is urgent and foreboding yet somehow warm, never feeling over the the top. (For some reason, I liked what could be considered a "throw away" scene where Peter enjoys a piece of cake and some milk with his landlord's daughter who is shly attracted to him. It's cute and a nice little relief from Peter's battles on the "streets" and within himself.)

 The Moral Tone: Some may be turned off by me going there but to others it may be important as it is to me. I like the character of Peter. Though conflicted you can feel that at his core he is a grounded, solid person who is ultimately lead by a desire to do the right thing. While many movie heroes fall into the judge/jury/executioner mode, Peter stays above that led by his heart rather than his powers or raw emotions. MJ, while now successful with modeling and a budding career on Broadway, has not let her looks and "fame" turn her vain or shallow. She remains down to earth, open, and very likeable.

 Aunt May is also refreshing as a strong woman who despite still grieving the loss of her husband has come through it as a positive, affirming, and loving person. Even Doc Oct has a loving relationship with his wife early in the picture before the perfunctory accident changes him into a villian. Near the end his humanity re-emerges before it is too late. If you a Christian in particular, I didn't seen anything in this regard that will cause you to leave the theater feeling mocked or let down. A good number of movies seem to espouse the idea of "nothing is black and white in morality" and that everybody is evil. it's just a question of to what degree in each person. Whether this is true or not, when I go to the theater I need to see "good" triumphant and I get upset when the message is that no is truly fulfilled until they off 50 people or raze a city. The central characters while not being perfect clearly choose to take a better road.

 Overall, my wife and I enjoyed ourselves. I would recommend it if you liked the first movie or enjoy the super hero genre in general.