Okay, I'm not here to compare Mark's acting ability to someone like Oldman, Curry or Brando. But Mark stacks up pretty well compared to most Hollywood celebrities and he deserves more than these B Grade movies he's in or comments about how he can't hold the viewers attention. Mark holds plenty of people's attention pretty well. I doubt people would make such comments to Mark directly. Even with Mark being a super nice guy, he could stomp you faster than you could scream "Zombie!"

I find it hilarious when talentless nobodies criticize people in the public eye for little more reason than they're celebrities and a desire to try to knock them down for that. Take, for example, people who refer to bands as One Hit Wonders. In most cases, this doesn't mean those musicians didn't have other great songs. But even if they just had one great song, it's more than their critics have.

If someone isn't good at what they do, then such criticism, as long as it's constructive and not just meant to be a cheap shot against someone you're jealous of, is legitimate. But Mark does a very good job of portraying the character in this movie. When he has memories of what he lost, he conveys the sadness and rage that goes with that very well. There are times where his acting does fall flat though, such as a scene in which he's supposed to be shocked, which doesn't feel natural enough.

Again, part of the issue is his choice to take B Movie roles to gain acting chops instead of just kung fu chops. I understand his reasoning, but it often leads to roles that aren't going to be regarded well, or give him the chance to grow as an actor as he hopes. Mark tends to elevate these movies beyond what they would be without him, but they also drag him down. At this point, I hope he can start choosing better roles, given his exposure on DWTS.

As far as the movie goes, saying it's a B Movie sums things up pretty well. My main complaint about the movie is that it falls apart once Geoff Mead and the other actors enter into the picture. When it's just Mark wandering what he thinks is a world devoid of other humans, it's pretty fantastic. When the others come in, it starts to change into something rotten, similar to the people turning into zombies.

I think there should be a certain standard for quality, despite the B rating. However, arguing about how logical it is to drive a convertible to get away from zombies is pretty pointless. I mean, this is a movie with zombies. There's not much logic in that, so the chosen mode of transportation is fairly irrelevant.

Obviously, I'm a fan of Mark and a bit biased, so take what I say how you will. I think I presented a view that expresses both his strengths and weaknesses. This isn't a movie that's going to win awards for its excellence in screenwriting, or much else. But if you want to see Mark literally kick zombie ass, get it.

The thing I like about Mark is that he often brings something new into each movie. When he did Only the Strong, he used Capoeira. The Base saw him using a more brutal style. This movie has him using Chucks for the first time. Nunchukus, not Chuck Taylor shoes. I'm not certain how deadly a weapon they would make, but I'd be interested in seeing them used that way.

I also still marvel at how fast this guy is. When he punches, you have to slow the DVD down in many cases to see it. People expecting a literary masterpiece probably could care less, but you should open your mind a bit and see that excellence in the physique is just as impressive. And Mark impresses completely.