Fido is yet another sterling example of horror comedy done right.  With the rise in popularity of blood-spattered comedies over the past few years, given a rallying cry by the near-flawless "Shaun of the Dead", true horror fans have learned that it is okay to have fun with your horror, something that seems lost in the recent outbreak of "torture porn" films.  Fido brings a simple but very unique spin on the zombie subgenre that offers up plenty of laughs, and just enough blood to keep everyone from the casual moviegoer to the rabid horror aficionado giddy.

Over the past decade, the zombie subgenre of horror has exploded in popularity and quantity of releases.  Max Brooks' hilariously tongue in cheek "Zombie Survival Guide" and post-zombie war account, "World War Z", along with Simon Pegg's brilliant "Shaun of the Dead", George Romero's "Land of the Dead" and "Diary of the Dead", Zack Snyder's thrilling re-imagining of "Dawn of the Dead", Stephen King's "Cell", and Brian Keene's "The Rising", "City of the Dead", and "Dead Sea", Robert Kirkman's "Walking Dead" series, and so many more have captivated lurker-loving audiences of books and movies alike like never before, and given new undeath to a section of horror that was starting to get a bit ripe.  With "Fido", director Andrew Currie has opened a brand new, wet and fresh artery of zombie horror, and earned his place among the ranks of the ever-growing undead army.

"Fido", simply as a film, is wonderfully shot, acted, and directed, capturing the mid-century suburban style with an almost Burtonesque flair, but with even more subtle nuances, even if less originality.  Carrie-Ann Moss turns in a deceptively deep performance, with gradual, excellent character fluctuation and growth throughout the film.  Her performance alone lends a level of credibility to the movie that, otherwise, would be missing in a similar production without such acting chops.  Other props must be thrown out to Dylan Baker's obnoxious, paranoid, offbeat role as the only guy on the block who is really, really freaked out by zombies.  It doesn't sound particularly engaging, I know, but believe me, it's a blast to watch.  Also, K'Sun Ray's turn as Little Timmy Robinson shows incredible promise for a new, up-and-coming child actor, and Billy Connoly's performance as the title character is alternatingly heartrending (literally) and hilarious.

My only real gripe with "Fido" is its understated gore level.  In a film so feel-good and sweet, its relative lack of blood and guts often relegates it to a simple darkly comedic adaptation of any other "Boy and His Dog" movie.  Although blood is spilled and limbs are severed, it is often off camera, and never particularly visceral, or even over-the-top to the point of hilarity.  It is just plainly there.  the only thing lending the gore any backing for its place in the film is the nonchalant, comical way it is treated by the "normal" suburban characters of the film.  Still, more often than not, "Fido" is more "Old Yeller" and less "Shaun of the Dead".

"Fido" is a well-worthy entry into the realms of horror, zombies, comedies, and film as a whole.  For what the film offers, it excels in almost every way, never overextending itself, but never quite spilling its guts, either.  This film is a very entertaining, funny, and warm, if a bit tame piece of cinema that will almost certainly sink its teeth in the hearts of even the most jaded horror fan.