This is a documentary about the famous musicians who played at the Buena Vista Social Club, which has long disappeared, in pre-revolutionary Havana. Apparently guitarist Ry Cooder decided to execute his plan in the late 90's, what he had conceived while visiting Cuba in the 70's, to make an album with these long forgotten folk artists.

Why were these men (and one woman) forgotten? I suppose the U.S.led effort to isolate Cuba since 1959 has played a role in that which has given the regime an excuse for most of its history to frown upon and repress artistic expression that goes beyond its narrow parameters. The regime has placed supreme emphasis on building an economy separate from the U.S. led capitalist world and attempting to survive in a hostile world instead of encouraging artists.

The film displays the picturesque streets of Havana and their denizens watching the scenery from balconies or doorways, playing dominoes, riding in old cars, busses and motorcycles, with lots of stray dogs, including one defecating in the street. But most of all it shows the Cuban musicians reflecting on their life and, of course, playing their charming folk music.

The climax of the film is the group playing at Carnegie Hall in New York. It is certainly moving to see the look on the face of the old vocalist Ibrahim Ferrer as he gets a standing ovation. Several of them are followed through New York as they tour the sites and express enchantment at the great splendor of the city ("Wait till they get mugged," my dad said).

A movie like this is good for it shows the human face of Cuba, instead of Cuba viewed through abstract discussions on socio-political or geo-political theories or through the prism of South Florida half-wits who admire Luis Posada Carrilles and Orlando Bosch. The old men (and the one woman) in it are very charming. Compay Segundo is the oldest one in the movie, about 90, at the time of the shooting. He is also probably the most colorful; he discourses on his cure for hangovers, his love of women and his desire to add a sixth to his five children before he dies. As Anne Louise Bardach mentions in her fine new book "Cuba Confidential" Segundo tried to play a concert in South Florida in the late 90's but it was disrupted by the usual riots and bomb threats stimulated by talk radio demagogues that happen every time a Cuban musician tries to play in Florida and refuses to defect. As I was impressed with during my visit to the island in January 2004, Cuba is full of people who live, work, play, cry, make love, just like everybody else. It's regime is brutal but it is not North Korea.

The regime seems to have gotten past its cultural Puritanism that devastated Cuba's artistic world during the "cultural revolution" of the 60's. Hip hop clothing and rap are flourishing in the country; one can see them and all the latest pop music from Latin America at the night clubs. There is more leeway for artists to express themselves.  When I was in Cuba on a school trip, we visited a "special" high school, a training school for "teachers of culture." I can't remember exactly where it was located, but it was full of serious young people. We were treated to a solo vocalist or two and an excellent guitar duet. We saw several excellent music performances from different groups in the rest of our trip. Cuban music is alive and well.