First, I must say my wife and I love and cherish this series. Having never seen the series when it originally aired, and after purchasing the beautiful 'filing cabinet' series set, we poured over each season in order over a several month period one summer. On occasion we could have watched whole seasons in marathon sessions, but forced ourselves to only watch one or two episodes at a time just so we could appreciate and savor it even more.

***SPOILERS FOLLOW***

That said, I can't help but feel the writers of both the series and the closing movie really missed a golden opportunity. Recall the the whole series began with rookie Det. Tim Bayliss' being assigned a case that would haunt and torture him throughout the rest of the series - the murder of a little girl named Adena Watson.

Despite hours of air-time being devoted to the pursuit of this case, culminating in a stunning episode shot entirely in the interrogation room ("The Box"), the characters and viewer never discover the full truth surrounding Adena Watson's murder. As the series progresses Det. Bayliss would periodically be confronted with references and reminders of this painful 'first case'. Doesn't it make perfect sense that the very case that introduced this series to the world, and that left tantalizing bread crumbs throughout the seasons that followed, should be dealt with in the final episode of the series? Or at least been given time in the closing movie that followed?

Adena Watson was the perfect cliff hanger. As each season progressed I just knew that her case was coming back - when? we didn't know. And as the series neared it's end, it became clear that the writers were saving this one for the finale. And why not? It made perfect sense. Closing the Adena Watson case would be the ultimate in 'closure' for this show.

Now, don't get me wrong. I wasn't expecting everything to end with all the loose strands tied up in pretty bows. This wasn't Law & Order after all (a show we also enjoy for it's own merits). Many of Homicide's story lines ended messily. But so do many of the events of real life as well. And that is what made this series gritty and compelling. Nevertheless, of all the haunting cases in the series, this is the one that deserved some measure of 'closure' even if it wasn't going to be neat and clean.

I have to say, while we still look back on the series with fondness, there is a bit of disappointment that this golden opportunity was overlooked. After all, if even the Luther Mahoney story arc saw a measure of 'closure', I believe poor Adena Watson deserved it even more.

4 Stars for the Movie
5 Stars for the Series