The most memorable Doctor Who stories all have one thing in common; they manage to mix suspense, drama and humor with seemingly effortless grace.  That is to say, they are almost totally dissimilar to The Two Doctors.  This three part yawnfest is nearly unwatchable.  Viewing this steaming turd, it's easy to see why Colin Baker was the least beloved of all the Doctors, although, in fairness, it's hard to imagine David Tennant, Tom Baker or even Lawrence Olivier salvaging this craptastic script.
 I won't even try to summarize the half-assed plot.  Suffice to say, the Doctors find themselves in conflict with two halfwitted Sontarans, a supposed supergenius drag queen,  an old man with a sword and the ringleader Dastari  (who worked previously as the lead singer for the Buggles).  It's all downhill from the word go.  Patrick Troughton spends most of his time strapped to a table while Colin Baker cowers in a stairwell and fails to rescue either Peri or Jamie from a cannibalistic old coot.
  The assembled villains possess all the menace of a cold bowl of porridge, yet our heroes spend most of the three episodes alternately hiding from them or running in terror.  Watching the Doctor cower in the next room, not once, but twice, while Shockeye prepared to butcher first Peri and then Jamie was just painful.  Given that Shockeye was an elderly git armed with a knife and a sword that he could barely lift, the Doctor's cowardice borders on the inexplicable.
 Putting two Doctors into one story demands a villain of epic proportions; instead, we get a "genius" scientist who not only leaves the keys to the Doctor's fetters within reach, but even makes a point of showing the Doctor where they are.  On top of this, the super-duper genius tries to make her escape in a time machine which she knows the doctor has sabotaged.  Idiocy, pure and simple.
 All this goes without mentioning the singularly amateurish makeup.  While the Sontarans are given decent appliances which allow them a limited range of facial expressions, Shockeye's makeup consists of some nose putty boils and poorly drawn eyebrows.  The word lame springs to mind.
 Unlike most viewers, I happen to enjoy Colin Baker's portrayal of The Doctor.  Despite being saddled with horrendous costumes, lackluster scripts and an annoying ninny for a companion, Baker makes a herculean effort to fill the screen and breathe life into the character.  Whereas others decry him as mean-spirited, I find him refreshing and mischievous.  Of all the actors who have played the part, I find him the most like the original Doctor, William Hartnell.  Still, I felt truly uncomfortable watching him try to save what I can only assume were supposed to be comic scenes.  I can not recommend this steaming pile of eel crap to any but the most dedicated fan.  Unless, of course, your idea of entertainment is watching the Doctor try to make Hamlet jokes while a hapless waiter bleeds to death on the floor.