Introduction

The sixteenth collection of "Mystery Science Theater 3000" DVDs was released during the Christmas gift buying season and appropriately features one of the most infamous holiday movies of all time.  The other three films may not have any specific seasonal relevance, but I find most episodes of MST3k make the long winter nights seem less cold and chilling.

THE CORPSE VANISHES (1942)
(with short: an episode of the serial, COMMANDER CODY AND THE RADAR MEN FROM THE MOON)

The main feature of this episode is a very hokey story about a mad scientist (played by the one and only Bela Lugosi).  Bela's shtick in this one is to kill brides on their wedding day using poisoned flowers for the express purpose of draining their life essence and injecting that essence into his wife.  The film is fairly corny, extremely silly, and the plot is incredibly obvious.

Like many episodes in MST3k's first season, THE CORPSE VANISHES is a little harder to watch than experiments from later years.  The riffing crew hadn't yet hit their prime, and a lot of the jokes are more obvious, less subtle and not quite as funny than they would become.

WARRIOR OF THE LOST WORLD (1984)

This is a rather fun film which owes one or two aspects of its production to Mad Maxx.  The movie stars (in order of appearance): the PAPER CHASE guy, the bald lady from STAR TREK: THE MOTION PICTURE, and Donald Pleasance (the latter of which apparently came straight from the set of James Bond and didn't even bother changing out of his Blofeld costume).  The story features a talking motorcycle and is virtually incomprehensible (both the story and the motorcycle that is).  The most amusing part of this disc is the bonus interview with the writer/director (David Worth) in which he a) acknowledges that this was a cheap and hastily made production and b) gives out his email address and invites heckling and correspondence.

SANTA CLAUS (1959)

I've seen this Mexican production of the Santa Claus story twice, yet all I can remember are disparate, disconnected images of horror.  There are flashes of a giant ear which can hear the entire world; scenes of horribly clich&eacute;d and stereotypical children of all nationalities helping Santa with his preparation; and disturbing mechanical laughing, demonic reindeer.

NIGHT OF THE BLOOD BEAST (1958)
(with short: ONCE UPON A HONEYMOON)

The short film features a newlywed couple finally getting to go away on their honeymoon... until the phone rings forcing the young man to put his suitcase aside until he completes his assigned task of writing a fairly inoffensive melody for a fussy, demanding diva.  The film has the strong feeling of being nothing more than a promotional advertisement (I can't imagine anyone becoming emotionally invested in a couple who do little other than whine and smoke cigarettes), yet it's hard to figure out exactly what product they are trying to sell.

The main feature stars a very young and less elusive Robert Denby.  The plot is one that any viewer of other 1950s sci-fi movies will be familiar with.  A rocket ship crashes back to Earth, but unknown to anyone there is a strange alien creature which returns with it.  At no point is there anything interesting or remarkable about the movie.  It immediately moves from the space business right to the closed set where characters get attacked and/or killed one at a time.  The movie feels like literally dozens of other MST3k movies (probably because of the name Roger Corman prominently seen in the credits).

Stinger

The movies in any box set of MST3k would be tough to sit through without the mocking of Joel/Mike and the bots, but that seems even more apparent in this particular case.  These are really bad movies, even by the usual standards.  But fortunately the MST3k writers were more than up to the task.  Even the lesser episodes (for me the riffing for NIGHT OF THE BLOOD BEAST started slow but fortunately ended fast) are entertaining.