The thing that initially startled me the most about "A Clockwork Orange", even before I had seen the movie, was the picture on the cover of Burgess' book.  I was in high school at the time, and I had to study it for my English class.  On the cover of the version I had was this grotesque image of a creature that only remoteley resembled a human being.  It had a body and a head, but only one eye, one ear and no nose or mouth.  And around the eye were the cogs of a wheel instead of eyelashes.  I remember gazing at this picture with ambivalence, simultaneously repulsed and drawn to it.  What did it mean?  Why did it look so strange?  The eye seemed to pulsate and quiver in front of me assessing my reaction.  The thing almost seemed to be alive! After seeing Kubrick's work I believe the picture represents Alex and his times to some extent. The distorted mind of this young individual who finds rape, pillaging and murder satisfying and pleasurable.  And it represents the apocalyptic vision of Alex's times, where gangs of young people roam dilapidated streets and broken buildings, assaulting droves of old, homeless people.  And it represents the empty conversations that Alex has his mother and father who seem to be content with a cheery "Good morning..", or "Here's your breakfast"..., either oblivious or pleased over what their son had become.  But more than any of these things, the picture is the collective mind of the politican's who view Alex and other human beings as machines with rotating wheels and cogs, that when refuse to work correctly need to be operated on.  And the arms of the politicans are those scientists, Brodsky and his ilk, who also view the world as a machine, operating under the principles of an evolution that saw the human being born out of a chemical soup under precisely the right temperature.  But alas it is precisely this vision that allows machines to fail or fall into disuse.  Thus allowing the collective to by law, rob Alex of the very thing that makes him human - to behold, reflect and then choose. When this is done to the human being it is possible for the collective to remake the world it lives in, in it's image, so to speak.  Thus those machines that are unfit are slowly exterminated by a gradual natural selection - birds, trees, fish anything that can be used for the collective to uphold it's superiority over the rest of it's environment.  Odd how the eye that glares at me on the cover of Burgess's book resembles the eye that looms on the dollar bill, announcing that it's new world order has begun... could it be our time?