Don't listen to those other reviewers who rate this as a poor, predictable movie.  I think that they're too jaded from seeing lots of movies from this genre and can't appreciate this for the under-praised gem that it is.  Of course there are bits that are common to every horror movie - the cat jumping out of the closet, the manipulative suspense music, and the villain appearing behind the door - but overall "Hide and Seek" is well-worth seeing.  There are many twists and creepy moments, and the climax can give you an emotional jolt.  Speaking of which, watch for the last scene.  Some people didn't like it, but it scared me as much as the revelation of Charlie.  Very well done.

In case you don't know the plotline, it's pretty simple.  Psychologist David Callahan (Robert Deniro) takes his young daughter Emily (Dakota Fanning) for rehabilitation in the country after her mother is found in their bathtub with her wrists slit.  They settle into a creepy, enormous house in upstate New York, where they are relatively isolated in the woods of a small town.  Though Emily quickly refuses to make friends with other children, she tells her father that she has a new friend named Charlie.  David is a bit concerned about this sudden appearance of an imaginary friend, but takes it in stride with her trauma.  It is only when some strange things begin to happen around the house, all of which that are immediately blamed on Charlie, that David begins to grow suspicious of who or what Charlie really is.

Many other reviewers have been comparing this movie and its plot to "The Shining" and "Secret Window", but I haven't seen either.  The surprise ending that all of these movies seem to have did stay a surprise for me, and it was one that truly scared me.  If you don't want the ending to be given away for you, DO NOT keep reading reviews on this page!  Many, many, many reviewers are spoiling the ending for those who haven't seen it.  If you want to watch this without it being ruined, do not keep reading reviews!  That being said, I thought that the ending worked, and I actually watched the movie twice more to catch all of the clues that were placed throughout.  It makes sense and it certainly gave me a jolt.

The acting in this film was well-above average for a movie in the horror or suspense genre.  Directors sometimes get away with poor acting by simply giving viewers pornographic shots of violence and gore, but that isn't the case here.  Deniro was definitely in character and definitely watchable - some of the faces that he made when Emily is blaming everything on Charlie creeped me out.  All of the smaller speaking roles were filled by capable actors - my favorite bit part was actually the town sheriff, though the roles of Elizabeth Young and fellow psychologist Katherine were equally watchable.

The real kudos, of course, goes to Dakota Fanning who is rapidly becoming my favorite actress.  Except for "Cat in the Hat", which was a clunky script and she the only highlight, she has been in above average movies for her entire short and impressive career.  She doesn't disappoint here and she manages to creep out the audience with her vacant stares, sadistic half-smiles, and panicked fright.  She won the MTV "Best Frightened Performance" award for this movie, and it is well-deserved.  Though she was only nine when she made this film, the amount of talent contained in this tiny package is almost palpable.  She is in 95% of this film, and she carries it through every moment.  I highly recommend all of her other films ("War of the Worlds", "Man on Fire", "I Am Sam") as well.  Watch this kid - she is going to go far.

I don't want to give too much else away, but I don't think that this movie really deserves the "R" rating that it got.  They could have scraped a "PG-13".  There is only one profanity in the movie and the violence doesn't occur until the last twelve minutes or so.  Don't be turned off by the rating, but I definitely wouldn't show this to kids.