I have seen this movie twice so far, and was enthralled for every second each time.  I never agree with the hyperbolic ravings of critics, but I have to say that Gene Shalit's comment (to be found on the cover of the collector's edition DVD) that "Jarhead is more than a movie - it's an experience" couldn't be more true.  A word of advice before I start talking about the movie, SEE IT IN THE THEATRES, not at home.

Jarhead made me feel like no other movie ever has - it drops you in among the soldiers and you feel genuinely surrounded by them.  This is no doubt due to the unique perspective from which the story is told.  Through Swofford's first-hand account of his and his unit's experiences during the Gulf War, you see a very different side of what you would normally witness in movies dealing with war.

You hear Marine Corps jargon being bandied around, you witness initiation tricks/rituals, see enlistees in training/drills, and witness how Swofford and his buddies evolved from enlistees into Scout Snipers.  The training Jamie Foxx's Staff Sgt. Sikes puts Swofford and his buddies through is especially interesting and sometimes funny to watch.  The football in the NBC suits followed by the "FIELD F___!!!" had me in stitches.  That is part of what makes this movie's funniness unique - it is the Marines' own brand of humor - you hear them insulting each other via spouses, girlfriends, or simply due to appearance.  A dark form of humor emerges from frustrated, bored and angry mental state that many of the men appear to experience - who sometimes lose it completely.  At one point, Swofford pushes the barrel of his loaded M16-A2 into a friend's face and then, screaming, holds it up to his own face, begging to be shot.  In another scene, Swofford's buddy Troy breaks down when he is told not to take the shot on a target - his would-be first kill after months of waiting, training and sweating in the Saudi desert.

This movie is at times funny (very much so) as well as shocking, sad and mesmerising.  The cinematography is breathtaking, especially the scenes after the fire wells have been set alight by the retreating Iraqis.

While Jake Gyllenhaal is great as Anthony Swofford, Jamie Foxx, in my opnion, steals the show.  A man of multiple and admirable talents, Foxx portrays his character effortlessly.  Jamie Foxx is hilarious at times, while as serious as can be at others.  His charater's articulateness and Foxx's expression of emotion portrays Foxx's Staff Sgt. Sikes as an intelligent man and a true altruist, "I thank God for every day he gives me in the Corps; ooh-rah."

As many will know, this is not an action movie, and that is what makes it so great.  (Spoiler in following sentence) The only action we witness is that of friendly fire, and all other hostilities are simply distant off-screen noises (except for a brief scene in which mortars fired by an invisible enemy land around Swofford's unit's position).  As mentioned before, I would strongly urge you to see this movie in the theatres as opposed to DVD.  (Spoiler in following sentence)  There are certain scenes which will just not be the same on your TV: the scene where one of Swofford's buddies exclaims "Hey, the oil fields" and the camera jostles over the shoulder of a soldier to reveal plooms of infernos topped with thick black smoke in the distance, or when, on patrol, two USAF bombers roar (and I mean roar - it was defeaning and the ground in the theatre literally shook) overhead, bombing the Marine units in friendly fire.

The music is also phenomenal in this movie.  I have ordered the soundtrack but it hasn't arrived yet, so I can't comment specifically - but I can say that Thomas Newman's score was truly noticable in the movie, and complemented it perfectly; he's a true genius.

No doubt this movie will overshadowed at the Oscars by Gyllenhaal's lesser movie of '05, which is certain to sweep everything for obvious reasons, but it's the Oscars - since when do the deserving win (think Lord of the Rings)?

I can't express how great this movie was, on so many levels.  It showed a different side of war, and dropped you right in with the men on the ground in doing so.  It showed the bonds that developed between the soldiers, and the camaradeie that held them together.  Jamie Foxx is - as always - outstanding, and deserves Best Supporting Actor for his performance.  My love of this movie may have led to this review to be a bunch of unstructured and unexplained praise, but I can't begin to express how great an experience Jarhead was.

And, an afterthought; ignore any idiot - critic or not - who says that this movie is 'gung-ho' or 'pro-war propaganda' etc.  I'm a proudly staunch Democrat when I say that this is Swofford's PERSONAL ACCOUNT of the Gulf War; he's presenting the views and actions of his fellow-soldiers in this movie - not exploring or discussing broader political themes.  Swofford has recorded his personal account of the war, and that of the members his unit - it would've been amoral to let an attempted political commentary overshadow the movie, and that is precisely what he didn't do.  This movie is not discussing politics, or the Middle East, it's a personal record of a war, and anyone who states otherwise has missed the point completely.

I want to applaud Anthony Swofford for recording his experiences so vividly and humorously, and Sam Mendes, Jake Gyllenhaal, Jamie Foxx and the rest of the cast for portraying Swofford's account so well (on all levels), and Thomas Newman for adding a layer of atmosphere that would've been lacking, had he not been part of this masterpiece.