The first half of the movie is suspenseful and feels rather mysterious, especially for me who haven't seen the original. Guided by assured direction, the first half of the movie generates an effective anticipating atmosphere that leads the audience into believing that something really exciting and dramatic is waiting to happen. It offers such a strong sense of promising possibility that I was almost literally licking my lips eagerly looking out for the next twist and turn in the movie.

 Quite disappointingly though, the second half of the movie does not entirely live up to the expectation created earlier. The believability of the story appears to be undermined by the rather inconsistent behaviors of the "manchurian candidate" Raymond, who sometimes is portrayed as a total thoughtless puppet while other times we see him determined to fight for his own identity. A bit more acute description of Raymond's inner struggles and psychological journey leading him to come to terms with his destiny would have undoubtedly given the movie more dimension and even more soul.

 The premise doesn't appear to be totally convincing. If someone has the control of a technology so powerful that he could control others' mind, he doesn't seem to have to resort to such an indirect plan to get more business from the government. That said, this modified story that has the "plan" involve not only the "puppet" but also the "investigator/hero" is clever. I believe, however, the way this detail of the plan is revealed could have been done better. Unfortunately the kind of sheer suspense the same director (Jonathan Demme) managed to craft in the climax of the more successful "Silence of the Lamb" is conspicuously missing in this movie's finale.

 The acting is superb, though. Meryl Streep, quite unsurprisingly given the quality of her performance in her other movies, injects into the movie a refreshing breath of life. Danzel Washington is solid as usual.

 Overall, the movie offers a decent amount of thrill and emotion stimulation, though maybe not nearly enough to make one feel compelled to call it an excellent movie.