Although this movie is titled "BEN-HUR" A tale of the Christ (at the beginning of the movie), the movie only has a couple of (very key) places where Christ is referenced. The scripting of this film is SO RICH -  with all that could happen in a person's life, with many outcomes that are often determined through good and bad decision making (by the offender and the offended), along with divine intervention (directly and indirectly, through developing circumstances). This movie has it all: Prosperity, Poverty, Persecution, Sickness (disease), Envy, Jealousy, Bitterness, Anger, Dissension, Grief, Remorse, Anguish, Vengence, Humility, Forgiveness,and finally, Restoration.  One issue that really struck me in the scripting, where Christ is concerned, is the beautiful way in which he was portrayed. Unlike other hollywood classic 'portrayals' of Christ as an emaciated, wasted, and skinny/fraile looking preachy character - this movie focuses NOT on the appearance of Christ himself (i.e., you never actually 'see' the face of Jesus in this movie - which is GOOD, as physical appearance is not what is at issue here in the story). Rather, at key intervals in "Judah Ben Hur's" life, you see the 'love' of God portrayed through the 'attributes' of Christ, which is important. (His actions spoke louder than words.) A very poignant scene is when he's on the chain gang being taken to the ship and a Roman soldier denies him water, Ben Hur falls to the ground totally parched, and very subtly, you see 'the hand' of Christ, with hands 'cupped' giving him water and the other hand gently on his cheek. One moment of mystery and hope for Ben Hur (in what would be many intervening and evolving circumstances throughout the film). Definitely Charlton Heston and Stephen Boyd's defining performances of a lifetime where this viewer is concerned.  A true masterpiece -  where something can be derived and learned for our own lives even after 50 years!

The Blu Ray transfer is so stunningly beautiful, it has to be seen to be believed. Closed Captioning is included for the hearing impaired.

10 stars and highly recommended. Blessings for all.