I always love watching movies with my kids that have characters from my own childhood.  It makes me feel nostalgic and closer to them at the same time because it bridges the gap in our generations when we share something in our childhoods. It makes me feel like a kid again in a way that today's new cartoons don't.

Winnie the Pooh is a long loved classic and his popularity has not faded throughout the years.  Even in stores that don't typically sell character clothing you can usually find an exception with Pooh!  He is an American staple and since he's already stood the test of time, will probably be around for future generations.  That is why the much anticipated Tigger movie was bound to be a hit in my home and across the country!

I love that the format for Pooh movies has not changed. It's narrated like a storybook and you get to dive into the story.  The graphics have also remained the same.  It looks just as I remember it.  I love that even with all they can do in movies today technologically; Pooh hasn't been altered as a true classic shouldn't!

While Pooh has always been the main star, Tigger gets his shot in the spotlight and as he states at the beginning, it's about time!! Tigger is a happy go lucky Tiger who loves nothing more than to bounce on his tail all day in the hundred acre woods with his friends.  He tries to get his them to bounce with him one day but they are all too busy.  While feeling slighted by his friends, a visit with Owl makes him realize that he doesn't have a family.  He goes in search of them, leaving his friends behind.

When Tigger's friends grow worried, they go to look for him.  Just like a family, when one of their own is missing they all come together!  Tigger's search is fruitless and just when he sinks into the depths of despair, his friends arrive!  He
realizes that THEY are his family and have been all along.  He has been looking for something that was right in front of him.

As usual, a great story with a beautiful moral for kids to learn. My kids have a family but it was a nice opener of a conversation about the importance of friends and how some can be as close as family.  I myself have been blessed with great friends that I'm closer to than some of my family by blood.  Leave it to Disney to hit another homerun with their movie and their message!