This movie would get 1 and half stars if that were possible. The downfall being the ending. There are so many unanswered questions and dangling plot lines it made me wonder if this was part one, but considering it's 2 hour plus lenght, I guess that's the movie. In a nutshell, this is the story of a chef who has a nutcase wife who cannot take care of things, so they hire a maid to do it. Sandler's character falls for her, but he is a bit timid and doesn't let his emotions show until late in the movie when it may be too late. Without giving away the ending (or lack of an ending)I will leave it at the fact you will be scratching your head as the credits roll. Why some of the silly overlong conversations between Sandler and Leoni weren't edited a bit more and more time devoted to closure is a mystery that may never be solved.

On the plus side, Sandler shows more depth than he's ever given to a role, and his "angry young man" schtick surfaced only mildly a couple times. But he acts like he's a little slow in parts and it really isn't a trait that a 4 star chef would realistically display. But he tries, and he is slowly becoming a decent all around actor. Paz Vega is a welcome newcomer who displays a great presence (and looks a bit like Selma Hayek which doesn't hurt her or the eyes a bit!!). And the surprise of the movie is Cloris Leechman, who provides about 80% of the much needed comic relief in this sometimes heavy handed movie.

Tea Leona on the other hand, is a bi-polar mess. Would a family well off enough to be able to afford a maid really let a person in that shape languish as long as she does? It's kind of unbelievable. She is so out of it at points you'll find yourself wondering why Sandler doesn't run screaming to his car and drive away. FAST!! But that would be too easy I suppose.

So what we have here is a lot of failure to communicate. Sandler's character can't communicate with his wife, his wife can't communicate with him, neither one can communicate with the maid (until over halfway through she speaks very little English) and Cloris only communicates near the end of the movie with her daughter (and then gives some advice that is shakey given Leoni's out of touch character!!). Don't misunderstand, there is plenty of talking going on, it's just most of the time nothing gets said or resolved and the fact that with all this communication breakdown, this movie clocks 131 minutes!!!! The movie isn't a total loss, but it needed just a tad more tweaking which could have changed it from a passable piece of entertainment to a very good one.