I was even in the fourth or fifth row far to Steve Vai's left.  Although I can't point myself out in the crowd, even during those camera shots, I was there and I recognized one of the people in the audience.  This was a guy who I remember was in the front row, pretty close to the center, and he had an Yngwie Malmsteen shirt.

Okay, about the DVD.  There were a few seconds of talking edited out here and there, and I was a bit disappointed about that, but it wasn't really that big a deal.  I remember him performing another song during the encore just before "Liberty," but it's either missing from the DVD or I'm just remembering incorrectly.  I also assumed that they didn't film his front act's performance, but his front act came out during the show and played lap steel for a couple of tunes.  For the viewer watching the show on DVD, they see a special guest, for the people who were there, it felt kind of like a friend was coming onto the stage.

This concert shows Steve Vai's talent as a guitar player, but I have to give just as much recognition to his amazing band.  Steve Vai has said that he can't spend more than a few years with one band at a time.  I was expecting to see Billy Sheehan on bass that night, but what I got was something very different.  Say goodbye to the quadruple guitar playing and hello to a mix of violin and guitar.  Alex DePue had an electric violin strapped around him, which was probably good for switching between keyboard and violin.  Ann Marie Calhoun was an amazing violinist, with a bit more of a traditional classical sort of style, and... I don't want to say anything about how she looked.  Bryan Beller was a great bass player, and was a much better choice for this band than Billy Sheehan.  Jeremy Colson had played drums for Steve Vai with the previous band, and of all of the drummers that Steve Vai had played with, Jeremy Colson probably has the most rock in his playing.

Dave Weiner has returned, yet again, because he's such a help for Steve Vai.  When your first gig with Steve Vai is doing the tour where Alive in an Ultra World was recorded, you have a lot of weight on your shoulders.  When you're mentioned as more important to the recording than the artist who released it, by the artist himself, I'm not sure if the artist will want to get rid of you.

Except for Bryan Beller, each artist gets their own moment in the spotlight with Steve Vai himself being off the stage.  Dave Weiner's tune was pretty good.  I can say watch out Steve.  Alex DePue and Ann Marie Calhoun did a duet that included "Eugene's Trick Bag."  And what's a concert without a drum solo?

Steve Vai's moments were great.  His playing was amazing, he had great stage presence, and his singing for the songs with singing was also pretty good.  I will mention the acoustic set as a highlighting moment, but the rest of the show was also great.  There is a lot of great jamming to enjoy and cherish again and again with this DVD set.