In order to understand "Clueless" in its fullest sense and for what it really means, one must look past the apparent idealism and optimism that Beverly Hills high school life puts on display and see its true meaning.  In actuality, "Clueless" is a classic love story focusing on the maturation of a young girl into a young woman (although these events may eventually make her a woman, but after all, she is only 16).  Yes, "Clueless" is a modern-day version of Jane Austen's novel "Emma", but it should also be given the individual attention and critical acclaim that it deserves.
Throughout the film, Cher seems to have everything going for her.  Her father is rich, she gets what she wants (sometimes at the expense of others), and she is surrounded by California pop-culture.  What more could a girl ask for?  Well, add to this the facts that she is self-absorbed, spoiled, and egotistical and you have the makings for a rather unpleasant personality.  Luckily, Cher is sweet and charming, allowing her to come off as pleasing and flawless to most.  Combine this with the fact that she is rather intelligent, although the ditzy persona is a front encouraged by society, and you have the makings of a rather outstanding person who just needs a little lesson about life and love - exactly the point of the film.
Cher's problem is that people just like her, namely Dionne, surround her.  It is even stated by Cher that they are not friends because they like each other, but rather, "she's my friend because we both know what it is to have people be jealous of us."  Now, this comes off as a rather arrogant statement - as well it should - but Cher's outlook on life is about to be drastically altered - that is, after she "develops" Tai.  Cher's "charity work" extends to everyone and when she notices the "project" of Tai, there is no stopping her.  At this point, Cher feels that she is doing Tai a favor (as does Tai feel likewise), when in actuality, Cher is partaking in these actions because of, and through selfish means.  Cher wants to help out Tai because she doesn't have a clue - or rather, she doesn't have Cher's definition of a clue - when really, it is Cher who is "clueless."  Fortunately, when Tai's "development" starts to get out of hand, Cher is able to step back and realize what she has done - she has created herself.  And she hates it.  Only now does Cher realize what she has been doing wrong all of this time - that being living through others and also not allowing herself to be loved.
Sure, many minor love episodes occur throughout the film, but the one at hand is the only love that matters.  After all, it does complete the classic love story.  Only after Cher is "challenged" for love does she actually open her eyes, and heart, to it.  Tai foolishly expresses her love for Josh when it is apparent that it has no chance, but this served as a mind-opening experience for Cher, for she realized that "her" love was meant to be.  Josh is the man that she has been looking for all along and he could now be hers, for she is on the path to becoming a woman.
Throughout all of this chaos, which seemed to get a little hectic at times, love emerges and settles in the place that it belongs.  Who knows, if not for Tai, maybe Cher would have never gotten to know, understand, and be secure with herself.  In other words, to become that person that she is capable of being.  Fortunately, things did turn out for the best - an apparent aspect of a classic love story - and Cher's maturation will continue, hopefully strengthening the bond, friendship, companionship, and love between her and Josh.