I just watched the series through again. I had a few questions nagging me. You can't blink, or you will miss something. I love that. I came across this gem of a series quite by accident when ordering "The Phantom of the Opera". I never had a chance to see The Phantom in the Theater. I am relieved, however, that I didn't, as no Phantom has ever made me sob so much, I was glad not to be in public.

Anyway, I remembered "The Jury" which had popped up on my screen and went back to spend the rest of my gift certificate on it. I love court case dramas. What a gem I found in this set.

The series was very subtle in turning your interest back and forth from the guilt or innocence of the boy into the personal lives of the jurors. I loved it. But for once, it was not the mystery that I was sunk into, it was the impact of the case on the jurors lives.

Some actors were better than others, some situations more interesting than others, such as the man who is emotionally overshadowed by his strong-willed Father-in-law right down to the last moment in the movie. And yet, he played the biggest factor in the outcome, in his eyes at the time. (Much to his own surprise.) But, what follows shows what human spirit that has been shaped in a certain way, does not easily change and he cannot enjoy his victory. Superb performance.

The recovering alcoholic and his AA mentor took the cake.

After reading the posts, I realize, the man who plays the alcoholic has a large female following. This is not from one of them. Not a review from an infatuated young girl or an unfulfilled woman. (My husband definitely fulfills me in every way) However, the performance really is superb and I am of the opinion that some of it comes from Scottish heritage.

The Scottish are wonderful, passionate people and it comes out in their acting. My family's trip to Scotland has been canceled. I've dreamt of visiting such a beautiful place and introducing my sons to the people there who are not boring and inhibited as they are in the States.

Just as Queen Victoria was attracted to John Brown, a Scott who wore his heart on his sleeve and gave his best, we are attracted to the actor with the thick Scottish accent who lived his part with his little tough-love angel. He easily showed deep respect and so looked up to the man who was half his size.

 What the mentor teaches this man is very profound. Everyone should see it and learn from it. We are drawn to tears by the desperation and loneliness in his face, struggling to recover from a life of self abuse. You wonder if it was acting, it was so compelling. I was so glad he had his teacher to hold him because I, being a mom, wanted to reach into to screen and do that. I guess that would make me an "Enabler"?

And then we are thrust back into the boy's fate and the verdict and whether it was right or wrong.

A visit to people's lives that may be foreign to your own and yet have all the same struggles, fears and small accomplishments. Even in my busy life, kids and kittens running about, I watched the whole thing straight through.
I recommend you do the same.

I hope we shall see more of these actors. Especially Mr. Butler.
However, no matter what else he does do, there will never be anything more precious than that of saving the life of a young boy.
I came across this tidbit when my son was afraid of 'the Phantom' and all his 'make-up.' So, we looked up the actor so that he would picture his face instead. We read this story of him jumping into a river where a boy was submerged and pulling him out to be resuscitated. The boy lived.

We cried because this was exactly what happened when a close friend of the family went swimming in the water when it was too cold. Only my brother-in-law could not save him. We named our son after him, Daniel.

Life is precious.

S.S.