Like many of the best things in life, I came into the ownership of this film by accident.  I was collecting the noir titles of the Criterion Collection and this film was categorized in that genre.  This is not a noir film in any dimension.

I sat down and was spellbound from beginning to end.  First, the cinematography was visually stunning, the lush black and white imagery set the tone of story contrasts.  You immediately get the sense that something much more than talking heads spouting dialogue is going on.  Frankly much of the dialogue is incidental to the film.  Slowly, I began to grasp the grammar of the film, the contrasts between old and new, between substance and illusion and was drawn in.  You quickly determine that something much more than a mysterious disappearance is going on.  Ringing true, a character is there, and then she is not, with little or no explanation.

The theme is the transitory, opportunistic and shallow nature of "modern relationships."  The principle characters set out on a quest that ends in a stunning conclusion.  Film critic Joel Youngblood (passionate devote' of this film) provides a perfect narration of the film that should be viewed after you run through it first with just subtitles.  You will be amazed with the detail and what is going on in this film as he leads you through it.

The director, Michelangelo Antonioni created a trilogy of sorts of this special type of film.  My personal favorite of the three and the one I highly recommend L'Eclisse is also available in a richly narrated Criterion Collection version with a stupendous quality transfer.  Monica Vitti is the lead actress in L'Eclisse also.

La Aventura is a compelling film that tends to draw you into repeat viewings.  It is rich with visual nuance and camera shots that tell the story, instead of the actor's words.  The film is revealed in the imagery more than through the dialogue.  The lead actor Gabriele Ferzetti and the beautiful actress Monica Vitti sweep you away into their adventure journey.  The ending is at once is impossible but probable.  Wow!  This is a CD to own, treasure and watch too many times.  Careful, it is habit-forming, more like addictive.