***WARNING!!!  WARNING!!!  WARNING!!!***
from the comments made by people who did not like this movie, let me just say this:
1.  if you DO NOT speak spanish, do not try to watch this movie.  the movie is IN SPANISH ONLY and has english subtitles.  it's a movie that you must pay attention, visually, to; therefore, if you need to watch the subs, you will miss alot of the stuff that made this movie funny.
2.  if you DO NOT speak spanish, it's a pretty fair bet you've never watched a south of the border telenovela, and you probably have not watched any south of the border movies, either.  if this is the case, you will not *get* this movie.  IT'S A SPOOF.  if you don't know what it's spoofing, it will just go right over your head, which is what it seems to have done with the reviewers who disliked it, judging from the comments they made.
3.  i'm not a big will ferrell fan and i don't blindly buy whatever movie he's on the cover of.  i LOVE johnny depp and i won't buy a movie just 'cuz he's in it, either.  i do research on movies i wish to see.  now, i do not watch alot of tv.  3-4 hours a day.  i watch only one telenovela online.  so, let's say, less than 5 hours a day do i spend.  i NEVER watch live tv and i skip ALL commercials unless something fleetingly catches my eye.  but even someone that spends hardly any time a'tall glued to the set saw commercials for this movie and on english-language channels.  how those of you who missed those commercials managed to do that is beyond me.  i do watch spanish-language tv, but i saw the commercials only on english-language channels.

why will ferrell chose to make a movie with such a limited audience i...i...i just don't know!!!

now for a little rant:
HELLO! to all of you who said you did not know this movie was in spanish:  the title should've been a dead giveaway, or at least should've made you look a little closer at the box where it is clearly stated SPANISH 5:1 dolby digital audio w/english & spanish subtitles.  it's nobody's fault but your own that you learned too late that you'd be watching subtitles.  if you wrote a bad review because of that, then you should delete your review...or...go back and watch the movie and suffer through those awful subtitles and maybe you'd see something funny and change your minds.  maybe not, but if you stopped watching 'cuz you don't like subtitles, then giving a bad review is meaningless and wrong.  you are not reviewing the movie when you do that, you're bitching about subtitles and not being able to understand spanish.  it's not fair to the movie.  think about it.

ok.  rant over.

the commercials for this movie made will ferrell look like all his dialogue was dubbed.  it wasn't.  his pronunciation was forced, but it could've been alot worse.

now, i've been watching univison (looneyvision), televisa (telerisible) and telemundo (teleinmundo) 'novelas for about 10 years, with some colombian and brasilian 'novelas thrown in, a couple argentinian ones...and some of this did not make sense to me.  the biggest problem i had was the fake scenery.  one of the things i love about the 'novelas is the beautiful scenery!  having said that, i'm not really familiar with mexican movies, so there's my problem.

but alot of this nailed the 'novelas dead on the head.  the maids dressed like hookers, complete with the shoes no self-respecting maid would wear when walking and dusting the furniture all day, was just one of the perfect things.

i became obsessed with watching for the bad continuity.

another funny thing about the white puma and its connection with la onza, as Chapulina R sez in a comment to reviewer GreatMovieCriticForever, is that genesis rodriguez's father, known as "el puma", sang the spanish version of "whiter shades of pale" (another pun probably unnoticed by those who gave less than 3-star reviews) at her wedding!!!  that was what made this movie fun!

i also loved how james bond the opening theme was, and how austin powers the ending theme was, right down to the freeze frame of will and genesis jumping up in the air.  a little nod to will's fellow SNL alumnus.

i watched this with my mouth hanging open most of the time, it was so bizarre, but it made me laugh, too.  it was fun to see ferrell speaking spanish.

i loved armendariz's description of "you have eyes like your mother's.  the eyes of a small chicken."  until he said that, i hadn't noticed, but he's right!!!  LOL!

anyway, if you speak spanish, even a little bit, and you're in for some really odd, whacked comedy, AND you're familiar with the 'novelas, you could spend your time in worse ways.  just brace yourself for the butt scene.  (: