First of all, the movie Patton is one of my all time favorites. To say I have viewed this film dozens of times is an understatement. The new two-disc DVD version is simply spectacular. The brilliant color and clarity compared with the VHS tape is like night and day. So what is left to say about this classic winner of eight Academy Awards?Over the years, I have discovered that this movie, as great as it is, is only an introduction to the complexity of Gen George S. Patton Jr. The producers in conjunction with George C. Scott's memorable performance convey only a sample of the many sides of Patton. The film touches on Patton's multi-faceted personality with a fair degree of artistic license. Patton was well versed in history but was he, as the German officer assigned to study him concluded, an "anachronism?" Patton believed in reincarnation and also that his destiny was "to lead a lot of men in a desperate battle." But was he an eccentric? For the novice viewer who, like myself thirty years ago, is enjoying this movie for the first time, it should provide a thirst to learn more about this flamboyant military figure. The older biographies of Martin Blumenson and Ladislas Farago, the latter providing meat for the film, are good starting points. The later work by Carlo D'Este _A Genius for War_ supersedes the rest. The producers of the DVD anticipated this hunger and included an audio essay by Charles M Province (president of the George S Patton Historical Society and author of _The Unknown Patton_). Province's monologue, though factual, sounds adlibbed and unrehersed. It is obvious a prepared script would have benefited this essay.For the Patton afficionado the producer's license with chronology and settings in the film will be evident. For example, the scene where Patton untangles a gridlocked convoy occured in the town square of the city of Avranches, not in an open field as depicted in the film. It must be remembered that General of the Army Omar N. Bradley acted as chief advisor during the filming. Those well versed in this period will recognise there was no love lost between these two men and the Bradley bias must be taken into consideration. A second DVD disc goes behind the scenes of the making of Patton along with a sound track of the film's hauntingly beautiful musical score.Regardless, there is probably no better film biography of an American military figure to grace the big screen than Patton.Every scene is a gem. Even 1960s era American tanks serving both German and American forces (the former with incorrect paint scheme to boot) can be overlooked. Scott is magnificent (even though the real Patton had a much higher squeeky voice) as is Karl Malden as Omar Bradley. If you even remotely enjoyed this film on VHS, run, do not walk, to buy the DVD!  A warning to the new generation of movie lovers, do not prejudge Patton on the film's portrayal. Read D'Este and the film will make a lovely backdrop.