Children of Heaven

Children of Heaven is a passionate movie with gentle characters and a sympathetic plot making it a great family movie. It is geared towards the entertainment of children. However an excellent movie, it may not be as credible in America's genre of great children's movies due to a clash in audience as well as a lack in action needed to amuse the children of modern America.

 In this kind hearted movie, director Majid Majidi uses a compassionate approach to tell the story of a boy that loses his sister's shoes and will do next to anything to get them back. In the film a young boy misplaces his sister's shoes while running errands at the market for his mother. A blind tradesman mistakenly picks them up and then carries them off leaving the boy, named Ali, to walk home without his sisters shoes. When he tells his sister, Zahra of the dilemma she quickly becomes uneasy with the notion of going to school with nothing on her feet. Ali proposes a temporary solution to the problem to avoid trouble and keep Zahra from telling their parents. Ali cannot just tell his parents he lost Zahra's because they don't have money to spend on new shoes. Ali's solution is to have Zahra wear his shoes to school in the morning, then run home after to trade shoes so that Ali can wear them to his school in the afternoon.

It seems that any child can identify with the situations presented in "Children of Heaven." Who hasn't teamed up with their siblings to rebel against their parents to avoid trouble? There is a great scene in this movie where Majidi really captures the feeling of love and companionship between siblings.  Ali runs a race where the winner gets a two week vacation, second gets a different prize and the third place winner is awarded a new pair of sneakers. Ali runs the race with passion, the whole time motivating himself with his sister's voice, his intentions are not to win the vacation, but to finish third so he can give his sister a new pair of shoes. The outcome of the scene is quite moving.

The downfall of the move is it has subtitles and these subtitles cause a clash in the American audience. It was filmed in Iran and its plot is geared towards an audience of children younger than eight to ten years old.  The dialogue isn't overwhelming especially for native speaking Iranians, however the translation to English subtitles may make it too difficult for the American audience of ten years old and younger to follow. This would cause the intended audience of children to loose interest and not really grasp the important concepts in the film that Majidi depicts.

With the audience in America now needing to be older than ten years of age I think the film loses its effectiveness. In America the early teens are action hungry and have fallen in love with special effects. The older than ten audiences can certainly follow the subtitles, but without action this audience will again lose interest. These children have become accustom to movies like Harry Potter and Shrek; movies with realistic monsters and high tech gizmos. There isn't much action in Children of Heaven and what little there is not all that exciting. There is a scene where Ali and his father are riding their bike and on a down hill road they lose their breaks and end up crashing. Action yes, but not what this audience is looking for.

Children of Heaven is a genuine movie that wonderfully depicts family values and the importance of companionship between siblings. Unfortunately, despite having that purity, I don't think American children will appreciate it as much due to the lack in action and clash in audience the subtitles present. Unluckily "Children of Heaven" is a great movie with a great plot, but it just doesn't fit in the American genre of great children's movies.