While this movie as we know it is outstanding, the much hyped 'spider pit' version is not worth all that's been written about it over the years.

I first saw King Kong at Cin&eacute;ma Rialto, Nice, during a family holiday in the 1970s, completely unaware I was seeing an uncut version. When I saw King Kong the second time on BBC television, I couldn't help noticing how much more concise and faster paced that version was, particularly with regard to Ann and Jack's escape from Skull Mountain.

The spider pit scene was so brief you only had to reach for your soda and you'd have missed the 3 spiders, a crab, an octopus/triffid hybrid and a pair of boggle-eyed lizards. Yet, brief as it was, it only served as a distraction.

Yes, the sailor's fate was 'gruesome' and the spider menacing Driscoll repulsive. However Cooper did the right thing to take it out. I found myself feeling sorrier for the poor sailor trapped in the mud, screaming up at the Kong-sized spider than I did for Ann Darrow, gazing down at a giant python curled at the foot of the tree! The sudden absence of Steiner's music during the proceedings added to the distracting feel.

I saw Peter Jackson's interpretation of the spider pit scene recently. While commendable, it differed from what I recall e.g. the bug attack happened as the sailors fell into the swamp, and several of the bugs perished when the falling log (with two sailors hanging on) crushed them. The Styracosaur recreation was fairly precise, only it did bring to mind the feeling I originally had that it's appearance interrupted the Brontosaur chase.

I would like to add that some people have remarked that I'm one of the lucky few who saw this 'art-house' version in the 1970s (a version that had apparently slipped out of RKO during the movie's '33 distribution). In my opinion I was unlucky. I should have been introduced Kong the way most viewers have - through the definitive 5 star cut!

I give King Kong the spider pit version 1 star and say - long may it continue to remain lost!