But hey, not every movie can be, can it not?  I will confess that until I got the DVD, "Love Happy" was the only Marx Bros. movie I had never seen!  I had seen all the other 12 COUNTLESS times. Now, there's been a lot people saying the movie was plain awful (even Groucho and Harpo never mention the movie in their autobiographies), and maybe compared to the earlier Paramounts it's considered a letdown. I think they were being too hard on themselves.

All considering, I thought it was a solid effort, but it was bogged down with too much music (not the brothers' tunes-everybody else's).  I thoroughly enjoyed watching Chico managing to cause chaos and confusion wherever he went, and butchering the English language as usual...........I absolutely cracked up when he says "Ah-Tootsie Frootsie" in a scene where Harpo hands him an ice cream cone.....I loved the "noodling around" bit he did where he played "Gyspy Love Song" just like he did in "Cocoanuts" 20 years earlier.  I often wonder if he knew this was the "official" swan song of the Brothers' movie career..........Chico would have gladly kept going, even if the others didn't.  (I'm not counting "The Story of Mankind" as the "last" movie, because they had 3 separate roles in it).

Groucho uncharacteristically, has more of a role as a narrator, but he still manages to be typical Groucho. When he is in a scene, he's hilarious.  His best line, is of course, when Marilyn Monroe (all 45 seconds of her) walks into his office (he's Detective Sam Grunion) and says, "Some men are following me" to which Groucho replies, "Really? I can't imagine why" and raises his eyebrows in typical Groucho fashion.

Of course, the star here is Harpo, and I think he's brilliant. His scene with Ilona Massey and Raymond Burr (who's trying not to laugh at Harp) when they try to get him to "talk" is hilarious! And the chase scene towards the end of the movie is great, despite all the "product placement" up on the buildings and such; it's still well done.  Harpo was just Harpo, and he nevers fails to deliver. He came up with the story after all. I think the movie was pretty good, and even though I wouldn't start with this movie if you are new to the Brothers Marx, I still recommend it.  Harpo, Chico, and Groucho in a good, but not great, movie are still better than half of the junk that is called humor gracing our theater screens (does ANYBODY know how  to do an original movie instead of countless remakes?) nowadays.  I think most people will be pleased with the Marxes' last effort.  Give it a chance, it might surprise you!  It did me.