This is a pretty damn good Pay-Per-View. I bought this around the time of Bad Blood 2004, thinking it would be good, and I made no mistake. The opening match has Chris Nowinski &amp; Rodney Mack against the Dudley Boyz in tag team competition, in an alright match with an interesting backstory, with Teddy Long kind of pressuring D-Von Dudley to leave his white brother Bubba Ray and join Teddy's group of African-Americans. Then, why is Nowinski in there with Teddy and his gang? Weird. And what happened to Nowinski and Mack? And why did Nowinski wear that stupid Phantom of the Opera mask?
Other matches include Booker T vs. Christian for the Intercontinental Title, a pretty good match. I would've liked to see the Booker Man win out in the end, though. After his World Title shot against Triple H at WrestleMania, the loss cost him a lot, and here he is against a mid-carder like Christian.
Kane &amp; Rob Van Dam against La Resistance for the Tag Titles is a mediocre match, not one of the two teams' best bouts. Kane &amp; RVD seem to be in the process of breaking up. When Kane came down to the ring, they went back to his old music. What happened to Slow Chemical by Finger Eleven? Weird.
The highlights are Shawn Michaels vs. Ric Flair, one of the best matches of 2003 in my opinion. If not for fellow Evolution member Randy Orton's interference, it would've been an even better match-up. 
Goldberg faces off against Chris Jericho in an overhyped bout that had good build-up and a great story going in, but just didn't seem to cut it in the ring. I hate how they made Goldberg win. Jericho should've won that match.
Scott Steiner battles Test for Stacy Keibler's managerial services in a fued that would mid-card several PPVs during 2003. An alright match-up, and Stacy ends up being with the bigger-armed of the two men.
The Redneck Triathalon was stupid and disgusting. Burping contests? Mae Young in a thong? C'mon, Vince. This is terrible.
The main event World Title match, Hell in a Cell with Mick Foley as referee pits Triple H, the champion, against former friend Kevin Nash in a pretty good bout that goes back to the ECW roots. Unfortunately, Nash and HHH don't go on top of the cage, which no one seems to want to do anymore. A solid main event with a great storyline.
Overall, a pretty good DVD and a pretty good Pay-Per-View. Good theme song for it too ("Headstrong" by Trapt).