Primal Fear is an excellent movie, that will have you on the edge of your seat wondering what is going to occur next. Featuring Richard Gere and Edward Norton, These actors  do a tremendous job which makes them unstoppable in the persuasion  of their roles. Many law shows and movies are decent, but they lack crucial evidence to make their movie or show realistic, and things always seem to fall into place; however, in this movie you see how gullible people are and how one client can deceive the whole justice system. It is the best courtroom drama since O.J.`s case, with enough evidence and detail to support the entire movie it is by far a five star flick. The film was a hit in all aspects due to the actor's phenomenal job, the sense of truth it had to it, and the legendary storyline that is fantastic.

 The acting throughout this movie was brilliant, with a surprise ending and great scenes, it was all accomplished by the magnificent performance of the actors. Edward Norton and Richard Gere deliver an excellence performance in this courtroom drama about kindness and deception. Edward Norton plays an inconspicuous character, named Aaron Stampler , that will have you questioning the outcome for the entirety of the movie. The first half of the movie introduces Edward Norton as a shy, harmless young man accused of a murdering an arch bishop. Following his incarceration, in jail, Richard Gere (Martin Vale)  steps up, in an amazing performance, as Edward's high price lawyer, who takes Edward's case to gain publicity. Furthermore, as the case unfolds Richard  finds himself in a predicament, due to lack of evidence, that makes him question Edward's innocence and leads him to believe the case is unbeatable.  As the story thickens Edward reveals his other side, who is a ruthless, deceitful young man desired to obstruct the justice system. Unable to plead insanity, Richard Gere faces many challenges to prove Edward's innocence,  which appears impossible. Edward Norton's debut in this movie is short of breath taking, as he remains dedicated and ambitious throughout the movie. Richard Gere is also To thank for the greatness of this movie as he plays a prominent part that shows off his wonderful acting skills. Richard Gere and Edward Norton combined were just unstoppable in this movie, and proved that together they can produce an astonishing, out of this world courtroom drama.

 As the plot unfolds and the ending occurs you see the truth behind the movie, and that's what makes it creative.  This movie has truth to it, because any criminal in life could pursue this movie and possibly have a  chance at getting away; in fact , due to the sequence of events and the creativeness to the plot you would think this movie was based on a true story. Primal fear is a movie that has logical views with great strengths that make the movie entertaining and convincing. Once you conclude its relevance in the courtroom you see a way the justice system could be fooled by a single citizen. That is what makes this move and separates it from the fictional movies that could never happen. Primal Fear is a movie that makes you think  about court cases and how deceptive people can be.

 The movie was well thought out, with the sequence of events being  intense, your mind becomes drawn in as you becomes curious what the next scene will convey. The story-line is  brilliant, each seen escalates in suspense from the beginning to especially the end.  Although, the very beginning might seem a little slow don't let it fool you, as they are just setting the twists and turns for the rest of the movie. Be prepared though, as you watch Edward`s character evolve, you become so fascinated with the climax, that you become anxious  to see the conclusion. The most notable part of this movie is definitely the end;  it delivers how creative the movie makers are, with the ultimate display of courtroom drama, as Richard Gere and Laura Linney argue over Edward Norton`s innocence, it is untouchable by any other , as Edward's fate in the movie is revealed.

 In conclusion,  I believe this is one of the best movies ever made, and that viewing it would be well worth your time. With good acting, a terrific story line, and  truth behind it, it is by far one of the best movies of all.  Well thought out and executed perfect in every seen, this is the kind of  movie you will always remember and tell a friend about.  This movie will be a good investment in your time and will leave you in ah as the plot unfolds and the truth comes out.