Wim Wenders established himself as the quintessential art house foreign film director in the 1980s.  He had his critically claimed road movies and the well loved "Wings of Desire" under his belt.  His style is hard to pin point, but if there is one word that could be used, it is exploration.  Whether it be in travels or in the human condition, it is something that his characters do.  "Until the End of the World" epitomizes exploration, and consequently, begs for repeat viewings.

The title itself holds so many meanings.  There are two literal ones.  The first being that the film involves a chase around the world for the elusive William Hurt character.  The second being the fear that the world would end at the turn of the millenium.

But that doesn't even begin to scratch the clever layering of meaning within the film.  Wenders loves exploring the depth of the characters, even after the chase is over, he lets us visit with them a little longer.  While we're doing that, the characters are going deeper and deeper in trying explore themselves through the use of devices that allow people to see their dreams.  And we do get to see this in the American 158 minute version.  Although this is regarded by the director as a heavily truncated version of his vision, it's still highly watchable and entertaining.

The film is also notable for it's interesting look and concept.  Wenders isn't venturing too far into the future here, but places subtle glimpses of what he felt it might look 9 years from when the film was made in 1991.  He actually does a credible job and shows a genuine curiosity for science in this film.

This also boasts one of the best soundtracks period.  Wenders has had some allegiances with some great bands or artists over the years.  Included here are prominent Wenders collaboraters U2 and Nick Cave as well as a number of alternative icons like R.E.M., Elvis Costello, and the wonderful score by the nearly infallible Graeme Revelle.

The structure of the film can be very off putting for the regular film goer and I must admit that when I first watched it, it through me for a loop.  Wenders is not satisfied with giving you merely a human drama or action story and is known for shifting gears in his films.  What starts as cat and mouse chase story shifts into an exploration of the human condition through the use of dreams, looking into people's obsession with them.  It makes for an odd watch that if you are pleased with, you might have another go round.

This is an excellent movie surely worthy of another look and possibly a DVD release.  It wasn't well understood when it came out and Wenders grand idea probably wasn't ready for the US quite yet.  I'd be willing to give this film another while, be it the 158 minute version or 280 minute trilogy version available in other regions.  While many may disagree, I do think Wenders succeeded in creating his ultimate road movie - and a little bit more.