Boy do people miss the point on this movie. You can't present a movie like a broadway show. Everytime this has been attemped, historically, the results are bad, most adaptions of famous shows are only OK at best, some  are awful.  The medium is totally different, the demands are different,  the singing is different, the acting style is different. Yes, the shows  usually are "better", in a sense,  that's how it was originally  written, as a stage play. You have got to really change things to make a  successful movie. 
So how good an ADAPTION is this?  Very good indeed.  The story was changed to very effectively fit the medium. Madonna stretched  herself unbelievably to do this role, and I think she did very well. You  may quite validly prefer the stage version of Evita (I like both), but its  almost like apples and oranges. As good as Patti Lupone and Mandy Patinkin  were, they would, if they played it the same way anyway, come off mannered  and absurd in a movie context. All the conventions of the stage would be  laughable. (unless it was simply, of course, an actual filmed stage  production). On the other hand, Madonna and Banderas are not nearly strong  and polished enough for a stage. Most of the changes (a few I don't  understand), make a lot of sense, when you consider how a movie has to  flow. 
As for this movie not being deep or historical, its a musical for  Pete's sake, not "Saving Private Ryan." I don't know enough about  Eva Peron to really say, but I don't see how you could present a real  historical drama in a musical context. I think the problem is people don't  like or understand opera, which this essentially is. Most of the great  operas have ludicrous story lines! Also if you are going to go in knowing  you "hate" musicals, "hate" Madonna, then fine, this is  not to your taste. Banderas is not a polished singer, but his rough edged  singing is very appealing and effective in this context. 
The  cinematography, costumes are outstanding, and serve the story well. Only as  the dying Evita, do I find Madonna not very believable. I think Evita is  thrilling, its one of my favorite movies of recent years.
I love the show  Evita, and I love this too, but in a very different way.