This is a great DVD to bring reiki into your life. Watching it once a month strengthens the reiki flow. It's worked to heal others of their headaches, kidney stones, muscle pains, high blood pressure, etc. It could very well be the cure to whatever it is that is hurting your loved ones. I'm not saying to use this instead of going to have surgery or getting a checkup from a doctor, I'm saying use it to alleviate the problem, and with faith, the sickness will also go away.

This DVD get's 4 stars instead of 5 because there's no practical advice on how to use reiki. Since I had some prior experience with raising and manipulating energy before I got this, it came easily to me on how to apply it. So for a good book on this, I reccomend astral dynamics by Robert Bruce. It's a very important book on energy work that should be read and practiced by any reiki healer.

Here's some practical advice: Reiki is not an intelligent energy, contrary to what we are told, so it will not look for the source of the problem if the problem is, say, kidney stones. For high blood pressure there's not much need to look for the affected area, but for other things it's very necessary. The hands must be placed over the affected area to work properly, and repeat sessions are a must. You, the healer, will most probably begin to feel pains in one or both of your hands, like cramps, which means you've found the problem. Depending on the amount of pain the person is in, that's how much you will feel. This is a sacrifice that must be made in order to give a good healing. It's much more effective than believing the reiki will simply find all problems and the patient will be healed. This is nonsense. Also, creative visualization of the energy (green is a good color for healing) flowing inside the person helps alot too, along with rythmic breathing on both the healer and the patient. Imagining the energy is being pulled down, through your head, down to your heart, and out your arms is a good technique. Imagine the energy feels like cool water and that a sponge is brushing it down inside you and out your arms. This will feel like a subtle (or strong) rush of adrenaline. Even if you don't feel it, believe it's working, never doubt it, and it will work. Sensitivity to energy comes later.

LVX