As I left the movie theater after seeing this film, I heard an elderly woman behind me ask one of her friends, "What was that movie about?"

"Adaptation" is very... bizarre. It is the adaptation of "The Orchid Thief," a novel by Susan Orlean, but it is actually a film about the adaptation of the novel. It chronicles the fictitious events of Charlie Kaufman trying to adapt the novel into the movie, thus creating this movie. In essence: "Adaptation" is about the making of "Adaptation."

In a way, it can be viewed as an infinite, as movie within movie begets another movie within that, and so on. It's really incredible to think about, and at the same time, it does cover some of the material of the book, talking about the history of orchid thievery very briefly, along with the relations between Susan Orleane and LaRoche continuing as being read from the book by Charlie.

Charlie truly struggles with the source material, wanting to stay true to it, and yet finding no substance with which to create a plot, using a book review as a source for this decision. The merging of the script and reality is interesting, and it makes it more interesting that Charlie wavers in and out of reality in the movie with his ideas of what to put in the script, which are then shown in the script, which are then in the movie, to be put in the script, etc.

Also plaguing Charlie is his brother David, determined to be a successful screenwriter like his brother, yet bumbling through impossibilities that would only work in a non-adapted book, only to stumble upon success while Charlie continues to struggle (in fact, the premise for David's screenplay seems to be loosely used in the film "Identity.") In reality, David helped Charlie with this script, but the movie alters things (I suppose each wrote their own personalities.)

One problem with the two (both played by Nicholas Cage) is that while David's constant hounding of Charlie makes the viewer feel uncomfortable, David is also one of the only characters the viewer can care about (though what happens to LaRoche before the beginning is pretty tragic.) David is also the main source of comic relief, and some of his lines and analyses are really funny. This makes Charlie unlikable, as in every moment he is criticizing David, it makes his own loathing for himself (professed at the start) to be all the more necessary.

Some have viewed the movie's ending as problematic, stating it tacks onto the book, and it also is too "Hollywood" for an otherwise forwardly off-key film. In a sense, both of these accusations are true, and done for a reason. The point of Charlie's dilemma is that he can eventually come to his own conclusion, and because Susan Orleane is a character in the workings for the script, it's necessary to conclude things after the end of the book. As for the Hollywoodness of it, that's Charlie's own stab at himself, as well as a wit of irony towards he as a character. In the beginning, he states that he wants to make a movie about flowers, not about all the various things typically added to a Hollywood movie (drugs, gun, car chases, etc.) It works, as the movie turns into exactly what he didn't want it to be, and I find it strange that anyone would complain about the intriguing idea.

"Adaptation" is a strange film, and granted, many people won't understand it or will find it boring. They miss out on something that is an amazing experience, and if you haven't seen it, you should, if only for the opportunity to view the infinity and majesty within "Adaptation."