Pardon if this review adds exposition of one's own experiences, howbeit this title is an accomplished definitive of where the "Amish paradise" goes wrong, at least in one area of scope. My parents joined an Amish group in Tennessee when I was 9, looking perhaps for a religious "Shangrila". We eventually moved and joined a sister church in Sarasota, FL where personal corresponding scenarios and invlovements to the film took place (I was also acquainted with people who knew some in the film). Speaking directly about Rumspringa, there is a local park there in the city where young amish people come to get hooked up with the "corruption of the "english" or "worldly"". Virtual drug dealers and pimps, many of which are by the coined term X-Amish very systematically in fact make these corruptions available to these young people. And the completely irresponsible element is that these young people's parents are actually encouraging them to sow their wild oats so as according to custom they will repent, become a member of the church, and inherit their parents' farm up north. Now there are two atrocities here to note, at the least. The one is of the parents obviously. The other is that these young people can only see the darker elements of the rest of the world, so as to reinforce their religion's beliefs that the world is a sack of, well you know what. This of course is a psychological tool utilized by any successful cult, to demonize the rest of the world around. Now where did I fit personally into all this? The peculiar thing about any group, anywhere, is that when a group separates from the rest of the world and demonizes it, that philosophy translates into a subsequent natural selective psychology, which in turn means that well, I was never accepted as human to them. Their hearts are perhaps in the right place, but we are all bound to that higher god, Natural Selection. Anyways, long personal story made short, I have 8 grades of education, I live alone with an inability to form relationships, and I work in construction with all the ex-cons out there. To the film directly, I can relate with the certain insane fetishes we develop in adolescence (i.e. dresses and veilings), and anti-fetishes if you will, which can be anything "worldly". I find this psychological attribute of myself very hilarious, yet frustrating. I think sometimes I would have a better chance of fitting into society if I were to move to Japan. Thanks for reading!

Film rating = 5 Stars.