This was one of my favorite films when it came out and it holds up if you saw it 10 years ago or if this is the 100th time that you've seen it.  The plot is straightforward with few twists and turns, at least in the sense that what you think happened in Cuba after watching the first 15 minutes of the film is, in fact, what happened.  The tension in the film is having the main defense lawyer (played by Tom Cruise) prove what happened in a court of law.  The result is definately worth watching.

A lot gets made out of the cast of this film.  While it's true that there are a lot of movie stars, a lot of credit should go to director Rob Reiner since many of his 'stars' had not shown the ability to act up until this point in their careers.  Of course, you have established actors like Jack Nicholson in key roles, but remember that Tom Cruise was still mainly rembered for Top Gun and Demi Moore for Ghost when this film came out.  There is an excellent supporting cast of up-and-comers, including future Oscar winner Cuba Gooding Jr, Noah Wiley, and J.T. Walsh.  But what makes this movie work is Reiner's direction, which keeps what could easily become an average Law and Order episode interesting for more than two hours.

The DVD has a couple of special features, including a wide array of language options ranging from Thai to French.  The featurettes are above average and provide some interesting insight instead of basically being trailers for the film.  However, the director's commentary is substandard, with long stretches where Reiner simply doesn't say anything.  Some of the comments are even inaccurate, such as when he claims that the rifle team was recruited from the University of North Carolina (in fact, according to the credits they are from Texas A&M).

As a film, I'd rate A Few Good Men with 5 stars, while as a DVD it comes in at a pedestrian 3.  This is not because the film loses anything on the small screen, but just an indicator that the features are mediocre.  At the end of the day, the reason to buy this DVD is for an excellent film that is well written, surprisingly well acted (given the cast), and extremely well directed.  If you're looking for DVD features that will keep you engaged for hours, look elsewhere.  Unless you want to work on your Thai.