I am not overly religious, but I really enjoyed this movie.  I didnt read the description well and I thought it was something else when I put it on, but I got caught up in it anyway.  So now that I know this is a kids movie, I gotta say, it was excellent.  I'm kinda surprised this type of movie could be made in Hollywood.  While it is Christian themed, I think even nonbelievers or people like me that are not regular church goers, will be inspired by the main character, Tyler.  I did not think that it was forcing religion.  The Story is about Tyler and his impact on those around him.  What I really liked was that there was no one praying for a miracle.  Not once did any one ask "please find a cure for Tyler."  It wasn't treating God like a magic genie granting wishes, the prayers were more spiritual.  This is far more realistic and easier for kids to relate to.  My Favorite part of the movie was when we got to hear what was in some of Tyler's letters to God.  It really developed the Character, and had a great message, because even at his worst times when he struggled the most, he always was thinking about other people.  Throughout the whole movie, he was always concerned with others, and I think that is great message also.  There were a couple great performances too, by the young actors that played Tyler and Sam.  The were so positive and happy.  I don't think the stopped smiling at all in the whole movie.  They were great, did a great job delivering lines, had great chemistry, and really it is those 2 that gave the movie a positive feel.  I read some of the negative reviews and those comments were kinda harsh.  I think that is way off base.  They were absolutely fantastic.  So, it cant all be positive though, there is room for improvement.  I thought some of the supporting adult actors could have stepped up their performances, especially Tyler's brother Ben.  He was terrible.  I know it was a kids movie, but still would have like to see a little more emotion put into some of the performances.  A little more character development for the Mailman and Mom would be nice too.  Finally, the writing and flow of the movie was a little jumpy.  Some of the scenes seemed to be important but ended prematurely.  It seemed to have some scenes in the middle that were not well connected or were out of order.  I also would have like to have some scenes where Tyler was visibly sicker, to show that his positive attitude never changed.  Overall fanatastic story, with realistic scenario, and very uplifting.