Stephen Daldry's film, adapted from the novel by Michael Cunningham, is certainly flawed.  It doesn't quite achieve exactly what it tries to, and its mood is occasionaly, for lack of a better word, incorrect.
Three women are trying to find something.  In 1920s England, Virginia Woolf (Nicole Kidman) is trying to find inspiration for her newest novel.  Thousands of miles away and several decades later, 1950s housewife Laura Brown (Julianne Moore) is trying to find time to read the aforementioned novel.  Even yet more miles and years away, Y2K socialite Clarissa Vaughn (Meryl Streep) is trying to find something, too-- although we're never sure exactly what that is.  Long story short, the three stories are linked both on superficial and deeper levels, and a lesson is to be learned.  Hint: I think it has something to do with hours in the day.
Daldry captures cinematic parallelism very well, but he fails to capture any form of parallelism in the persons of the three female leads.  Kidman is humorless, dry and cold; Moore is humbly subtle and conflicted; and Streep is curiously boisterous and campy.  Indeed, the three actresses all turn in riveting performances; notably Moore, whose Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress was overshadowed by her simultaneous nomination in another category for "Far From Heaven."  Kidman, who won the Oscar for Best Actress, is ironically the weakest of the three leads and has the least screen time.  
The entire supporting cast is certainly the film's strongest asset, with strong performances from Jeff Daniels, Miranda Richardson, the delightful Toni Collette, and the underrated Stephen Dillane as the conflicted Leonard Woolf.  Others are sorely underutilized; namely Allison Janney, Claire Daines, and John C. Reilly.  However, Ed Harris, Best Supporting Actor nominee, is merely disappointing even at his best moments.
The cinematography by Seamus McGarvey is safe but adequate, and David Hare's screenplay is the same.  The musical score by Philip Glass is at times rather distracting-- it's one of those musical scores that is better when listened to by itself.  The film's real problem is that it fails to capture a fitting mood that is necessary to thoroughly move its audience in the end.  The film's message is lost in all the moviemaking and one isn't exactly sure why these "hours" are so significant.
Still, the film is worth a watch (and even an 4/5 rating) for some brilliant performances, especially by Moore and Streep.