I was a moderate fan of Daria when the show aired in the late 90's/early 2000's.  It wasn't that I didn't like the show (I actually liked it quite a bit), just remember it being a show I'd see from time to time and remember it being decent.  Funny, good writing, just simply entertaining.  When I heard it was coming out on DVD I didn't have to think twice.  The memories of watching the show were good ones, so I ordered it the day it came out (and ended up only having to pay 28 bucks-NEW-and this included shipping).  Well I can say after having watched the first few episodes of the Daria Series Collection that the show seems to have held up well.

I guess if I could knock anything it might be the video quality.  Grainy lines and bland reproduction are apparent in the episodes I've viewed, but this in no way takes away from the enjoyment of watching the episodes.  Maybe I'm just spoiled in today's age of Blu-Ray.  I'm not going to downgrade the DVD for not having the original music.  Number one, everyone knows this that would be interested in this DVD.  I wouldn't be telling you anything you didn't know.  Additionally, inside the case there's a small note explaining why it isn't there (costly licensing).  So nobody is trying to hide anything here.  Number two-It's not that big of a deal.  I'm frankly shocked everyone is so concerned about the original music being present.  It's not like this is Beavis and Butthead where the music played a much more regularly present central role to the plot/action of the episodes.  Personally, not being a person that remembered many of the episodes, the lack of original music so far has not taken away anything from my viewing experience.  Guess I'm not sure what everyone's big problem with this is?  If you like the music that much, go hop on ITunes???  Maybe buy some used CDs on Amazon???

In the end, if you remember liking/watching Daria, there's no reason not to pick this up.  It's affordable.  All the episodes (including the movies) are there.  The show has held up well.

On a side note, I'm uncertain how people could have been reviewing this specific DVD collection in February of this year.  It was released on May 12th (I believe) 2010.  Maybe that's the most upsetting thing about this product-The Amazon Reviews.  The point of a review is to review the product once you've used it, not to hype it or knock it, when the damn thing hasn't even been released.  I don't care if you've seen all the episodes or not, until you use the actual product in question-DON'T REVIEW IT ON AMAZON!!!!!!!!!!  It completely defeats the purpose of reviewing items.