I think people are way too biased when it comes to grading these direct to dvd animated movies.  I've read reviews of the marvel movies and they're basically the same: some expert of the comics complaining about the story not staying more faithful to the source material.  I've gotta say, as an avid comic fan myself, although it would be awesome to see an exact replica of the death of superman, I would be bored at the same time.  Why not just read the comic?

*SPOILERS*
I will say though that I was a little confused at how quickly doomsday appeared and killed superman but then found myself pleasantly surprised that they went ahead and included the whole return of superman as well (yes different but still equally as enjoyable). I had no idea they were going to do that since I thought the whole movie was just the death of him.

Would it have been awesome to see the four versions of superman in the aftermath? Yes. But would they have been able to include all of that, make the back stories work so you care about the characters and still find an emotional way to bring the real superman back all within 75 minutes? Definitely not. There's enough material to make numerous seperate 75 minute movies about all that so they had to cut it down.  (the whole death of superman and aftermath saga was like 2 years of comics...thousands of pages, ha)

When it came to the voicing of the characters, I was a little skeptical at first.  Not that I have anything against Adam Baldwin or Anne Heche (two great actors, especially Anne) but when celebrities voice cartoons, (for me at least) it tends to interfere with the movie since I can't help but put their face to the familiar voice. My fears were quickly put down though and I totally forgot they were voicing until I saw their names again at the end in the credits.  So kudos to them for doing a terrific job!

Overall, I can see how crazed-comic book fans might be disappointed but I still thought it was great.  I guess it's all in the eye of the beholder, and this beholder's eye loved every minute of it.