I assume if you are even reading the reviews of Repo Man- Special Edition Dvd, you love this movie.
On to the Special Edition Packaging.
The first thing you have to do is LOWER your expectations. It comes in this cheezy metal box, like a holiday cookie tin. The lid has a graphic of a California license plate that says appropriately enough Repo Man, and Oct 2002 where the date goes on a license plate. It is not embossed or anything that might make it cool. The rest of the box is unremarkable. On the unpainted bottom is a sticker saying what number you have in the limited edition. I have 08512/30000, it is just a sticker.
Inside the disapointments continue. The 24 page book is a minimilist tribute to a great film. There is not very much information of interest, and only a few good photos. You don't need these photos if you have movie. Then there is a 5x7" postcard of the movie poster with chapter info on the back. The dvd and the cd come in 2 disc cd case with no cover. Just a dvd with part of the movie poster silkscreened on it. and the cd with
the 11 original sound track songs on it. Time, &gt;38 minutes. There is no individual packaging for either.
There is nothing in the packaging that makes this special.
The DVD-
The picture quality is excellent. The sound quality is excellent.
There are little to no extras on the disc. This get frustrating as one version of the trailers shows a snippet of a scene where Bud (Harry Dean Stanton) is beating the hell out of some phone boths with a sledgehammer. In another snippet from the same trailer the repo wives look like the may be at the office, or something that is not in the film. Yet, the extras have NO extended scenes or deleted scenes. To make matters worse the commentary discusses a made for t.v. version of the film that was radically different from the version they are talking about. So I keep thinking I want to see these scenes. If they are hidden on the dvd anywhere I cannot find them. I thought a special edition would have more extras.
Buy this special addition because you love this movie and you love the soundtrack and you want to own them. Do not buy this for  dvd extras or cool packaging, you will be sorely dissapointed.