Poor Matt Saunders hasn't had a date for six months, is lonely, and the girl he loves (Hannah, a co-worker) is dating someone else.  Enter Jenny.  Matt sees her on the subway and with a little encouragement from his womanizing best friend, decides to ask her out.  She coldly rejects him at first; but when Jenny's purse gets snatched and Matt gives chase, her resolve melts and she agrees to go on a dinner date with him.

Matt finds out quickly that Jenny is a bit off, but ignores all of the warning bells going off in his head.  A little romance and wild sex ensues, and soon Jenny takes Matt into her confidence, letting him know that she's really G-Girl, their city's superhero.  Matt is relieved, chalking her previous bizarre behavior up to the fact that she was keeping this amazing and titillating secret from him.

Unfortunately, a spade is still a spade, and Jenny's still nuts, and controlling, and horribly jealous!  When a botched double-date leaves Matt alone with both Jenny and Hannah at the same time, Matt finally accepts the truth:  Jenny's too quirky and neurotic for him and Hannah is the woman he truly loves.  When Matt finally finds the courage to break up with Jenny, she immediately becomes the ex-girlfriend from Krypton hell!  There's just nothing quite like a superhero scorned!

A caveat here:  this is not the movie to watch if you are looking for depth and the meaning of life.  It is the movie to watch if you want a good laugh, and something to take your mind off of your troubles for awhile.  It's silly and ridiculous, but it's also great fun.  I found myself laughing out loud more than once at Jenny's hilarious acts of vengeance; vengeance that could only be enacted by a superhero, of course!  Uma Thurman does a wonderful job portraying nutty-as-a-fruitcake Jenny, and Luke Wilson is adorable, and perfect as the slightly timid put-upon boyfriend. The rest of the characters are well-cast as well.  As for the ending, it will definitely put a smile on your face.  "My Super Ex-Girlfriend" is a delightful movie all the way around.