If you read The Mothman Prophecies you may be disappointed in this movie. While it has some elements of John Keel's story, it is a total departure from what supposedly really happened. 
I first heard about the Mothman in some obscure UFO rag in the 1970s. It is an interesting story of a town visited by a giant flying creature, the real Men-in-Black, and an alien (Indrid Cold) over a period of time. All this strangness culminates in a bridge collapse that killed a number of people. Afterward, life returned to normal for this small town in West Virginia. 
John Keel heard of the sightings at the time they were occurring and visited the town and befriended a number of people who witnessed the various phenomena. There were many strange things going on indeed, phones ringing with mechanical voices on the other end, UFOs being seen, cars being chased at 100 MPH by a huge winged creature and strange looking men in black suits asking people weird questions. Keel himself experienced some of the weirdness when a phone started ringing that was not plugged in. He also on numerous occasions heard someone banging on the wall, even though there was no one there. 
The movie, with a present day timeline (VS the 1960s) casts Richard Gere as Keel's character. So right off from the start the movie strays from the "real" story. There are some elements that are supposedly true. The Mothman was seen by numerous people on roofs and in yards like in the movie. Gere sees a strange light in the sky and has "missing" time. There were strange lights seen in the sky during the Mothman time period. Indrid Cold, an "alien" appeared to at least one individual in the real story. In the movie he is calling Keel and almost is used like a fusion of the real story of Indrid Cold and the MIB seen all over town. 
The movie has good acting and you do get this feeling of something weird is going on. It definately has a creepy atmosphere, probably due to most scenes being shoot in winter with overcast skies or at night. I have to say that without a doubt this DVD has one of the best Dolby Digital 5.1 sound tracks of any DVD I have seen (including the Matix, ID4 and Armageddon). I had seen this at the movies and when I got the DVD I watched it in broad daylight, with the volume turned up a notch, and the first scene with the Mothman/car crash still made me jump out of my seat. 
If you know the story and realize that this movie only touches on a few aspects of it you most likely enjoy it. If you have no clue to what the "real" story is but like creepy movies, I think you'll enjoy this movie too.