I'm watching the film right now and one thing that bothers me is this view of Wayne Dyer on 'how come women and men play out these certain rolls (men have to provide, women have to be caring)'. He blaims 'society' for it - people get pushed into these rolls by other people who got pushed into these rolls by other people, and so on. Where's the animal instinct? Men and women act the way they do because we're mammals and just like all the other mammals we have instincts which 'tell' us how to behave. It's that simple. When you feel you're in danger, for instance, you either run, keep still, fight - which, interestingly enough, as is the case with many of these 'instinctive behaviours' (or call it 'biological programs') when lasting over too long a period, become 'diseases' of so called modern humans. Like depressions (feeling that you can't escape), cancer (cells multiplying, as part of a biological program - for instance, the body provides more lung cells in order for you to be able to run harder and get a chance to escape from a preditor. Or, breast cells seemingly go crazy, but it's nature trying to enable you to produce more milk for your child when it is endangered (sick, had an accident, marries the wrong woman, etc.).

In nature, these 'biological programs' would only be active for a short time (you escape or get killed/your child lives or dies/etc.), but with us it can last for too long. This, for me, is one of the reasons I live in a way that 'stress', 'conflicts', etc., have no long time baring on me. When you realize you're steered by these instincts (the ego is mostly running these automatic programs) you can actually choose to live from another 'source' - this is called 'God', 'Higher Self', or whatever.

Letting go of controle is the hard part, 'till you realize how much fun it is! The ego, of course, won't easily let this happen. It'll tell you that you are acting in a irresponsible way, that you are being silly, throws 'scientific facts' at you (like the evolution theory, etc.). However, when you realize that the ego is restricted to a purely materialistic (causal) view, you'll get over it...

Then, the ego might play along and offer you structure for your newly discovered 'spiritual truths'. You say there's a 'God'? Okay, let's define that. 'God is good'? Hey, if that's true, how come there's so much suffering in the world? Dang - gotcha!

'Labeling', 'defining', 'causality' and 'linear reasoning' are some of the weapons of the ego. This is why it values 'science' so much. It can actually prove that the universe is made up of 'things' that behave in a predictable way (laws of nature). That is, 'till quantum science entered the game... And unexplainable stuff like 'the placebo effect', 'spontaneous reggresion', etc. The ego doesn't know how to handle that, but rather goes on explaining to you (well, to itself, actually, but if you identify with it, the ego is you...) why it's more logical to use poisonous chemo to 'fight' cancer, instead of looking at cancer in a different way.

So, for me it comes down to making a choice: live 'mechanically' (like the mule, keep chasing the carrot in front of it's nose) or 'let go of all this' (and surrender into 'something else', call it 'God', 'Higher Self', or, even better, don't call it anything, just live it).

Hope this rambling has some value for someone out there.