1) chris masters vs carlito

i thought this would be a dumb match, but it was really good, only because of carlito. he did a crossbody to the outside, springboard elbow, top rope moonsault, then a backcracker for the win- 4.5/5, after maria says masters won, later she corrects herself

winner:carlito

2) umaga vs ric flair

umaga destroys flair with his typical moves, he's an good wrestler, but that samoan spike is dumb, which is how he won- 3/5

winner: umaga

3) women's title- trish stratus vs mickie james (champ)

this match was ok in the beginning because trish was beating mickie down with all her signature moves, but then she got hurt when going over the top rope and trying to hold on to the apron, causing her arm to bend. so mickie choked her out to get DQed, she lost but is still champ- 3/5

winner: trish but mickie retains title

4)money in the bank and intercontinental title- winner takes all

RVD vs Shelton Benjamin (champ)

it was kind of slow in the begining, shelton is in a arm wrench, hammerlock and he reverses by bouncing off the ropes with his legs. shelton does a sunset flip powerbomb to Rvd to the outside. rvd goes for the rolling thunder, but shelton reverses into a samoan drop. 3rd time was a charm when rvd landed the rolling thunder. shelton kicked out of the split-legged moosault. rvd went fo a monkey flip, but shelton landed on his feet. shelton had the suitcase, rvd countered with a vandaminator, from their the 5-star and the win- 3.5/5

winner: new champ and still has the money RVD

5) big show vs kane

they had a typical normal strength match, but that music came on and kane went insane bouncing his head into the turnbuckle, show put him out of his misery with a chair shot, no one wins- 3/5

winner: no contest

6) tag or handicap match as shawn tries to explain- god and shawn michaels vs the McMahon's

it was funny with backstage with vince doing miracles, with candice, and the walking on water, the flying fish and bread. and then having god come out to disco music to boogie and the ref was supposed to check him. but then vince changed the match to NO HOLDS BARRED. shawn was dominating in the beginning, they were on the stage, and shawn did a crossbody to vince off the stage through the floor. when he went to get up, shane hit him with a chair. they bloodied him up real good, but shawn started coming back and gaining momentum, then got a sweet chin music on both of them. put them on 2 tables, went for a 20 ft ladder. while he was on it the spirit squad came out, so he did a flying back elbow onto them. but the odds were too much, and they got the high spirits on him through a table- wow. then the mcMahon's got the cover and the win- 5/5

winners: mcMahon's

7) wwe title- edge vs triple H vs (champ)

all main event triple threat matches for the title in past history have been some of the best matches, except at Wrestlemania 20, and that was known as the best main event ever.and this was no different. at first edge let them go at it and watched, but then cena and hunter started to double team edge, face first into the announce table. cena did a splash to edge, which was different from what he normally does. cena went for a double F-U, but edge got off and speared cena with hunter still on his back- different. edge got an edgecution on hunter on top of the table, but it didn't break. he was bleeding like a stuffed pig now. cena kept on doing STFU's on hunter, the 1st on hunter went for a pedigree, but cena countered, hunter broke it up, the 2nd time edge went to the top and cena went up and for and F-U, and hunter came from underneath and did an electric chair, all falling back- real different. edge got knocked over the barricade by a chair shot from hunter, when lita tried to interfere with a chair, hunter spinebustered her. then he went for a pedigree on cena, he countered with a bridge pin for the win- 5/5, after the match hunter hit them both with a sledghammer and did DX chops.

winner: still champ, cena

so that's all folks, u got to see it to believe it