Jean-Pierre Melville was incapable of making a movie that was NOT a masterpiece, but I disagree with those who raise Army of Shadows to a pinnacle above the likes of LEON MORIN PRIEST, LE DOULOS, and BOB LE FLAMBEUR. It does have some fairly unique features that the other three lack, not always to its advantage. For one, it is made in colour. This means that the director cannot show off his brilliant mastery of the black-and-wide medium that enhances the visual pleasure of his earlier work. It functions adequately in the first half, but in the second, crucial scenes such as the flight back from London, the attempted rescue by ambulance, and Gerbier's escape from the firing squad, are fuzzy and unfocused and come across more like dream sequences than actual events. The steely blue tone that dominates the colour palette, as in Le Samourai, adds to this sense of unreality. It is, I believe, the only Melville work that is, however loosely, based on allegedly true events and about individuals who actually existed. In this sense, the characters have more flesh and blood than his endearing gangsters and gamblers, and they are also faced with moral dilemmas that professional criminals have no trouble sweeping aside. It is this that gives the film its real suspense. What we are shown is not the battle between the Resistance and the Nazis plus their collaborators, but the battle within the movement itself. It is a brutal fight to the death between suspicion and loyalty; between justice and survival; between trust and its potentially disastrous consequences. In the other films I mentioned, Melville, albeit director, is looking in upon the action from the outside. Here he is personally involved, right in the thick of it, emotionally if not physically, as one of the few members of the Resistance who actually lived to tell the tale. It is no accident that the first frame begins with the silent words "Unhappy memories, I welcome you ....... You are my long-lost youth". Significantly, much of the sparse dialogue in this movie of endless silences represents not the speech but the thoughts of the protagonists as voice-overs that appear in the subtitles; and several different anecdotes are related in the first-person by characters who do not survive. The tension between excitement and pathos that is the product of this approach can be overwhelming. Perhaps because of his indirect self-involvement in the content, Melville's command of cinematic technique seems to desert him on occasions. Some of the shooting and composition are downright clumsy or ugly, the first time I have found it so in this artist who knew so well how to get the best out of his cameras. The clue may reside in some of the fascinating interviews and features that comprise the 2nd disc of this set. It seems that Melville had great difficulty making up his mind on how to solve some of the technical issues he set himself. He apparently called for 40 retakes of the scene where the car bearing Michelle's assassins draws up to allow the actual killer to descend. And he famously switched the ending with the beginning of the work after copies had already been distributed for the premiere. The exuberant self-confidence that characterizes his objective portrayal of those who kill for gain deserts him when the killing is carried out for a cause by those he admires and perhaps even loves. At times, this masterpiece provides us with graphic examples of the cinema of indecision, because its true theme is not history or politics but the morality of both.