Edward Woodward plays a British police officer (Sgt. Howie) who's sent a mysterious letter asking him to find out about the disappearance of a young girl named Rowan Morrison. Rowan lives in a faraway, insulated island community called Summersisle, ruled by a man named, appropriately enough, "Lord Summersisle." Woodward isn't just your ordinary, run of the mill police officer but a Bible-thumping, hardcore Christian. He's so hardcore, in fact, that even though he's well past the age of 30, he has remained a virgin to "save himself" for marriage.

Woodward sets out to Summersisle in a police plane and starts investigating. Problem is that the people of Summersisle almost immediately give him the runaround about Rowan's existence. But that isn't the worst of it. The island community also seems to be a few fries short of a a happy meal, because every single thing they do, sing, or say seems to be involved with sex. Because of this, poor "devout Christian" Howie has to spend several nights enduring the raunchy ballads and rituals of Summersisle locals. Even locked in his room, he isn't safe-- one night, the innkeeper's daughter tries to seduce him!

Just what *is* Summersisle, anyway? Is it some hippie commune practicing "free love"? Nope-- far from it. And when Howie investigates further as to what the people of Summersisle are really about, that's when the fun really begins! But I'll leave you to see the movie to find out for yourself.

Because I'd already seen the abysmal 2006 Nicolas Cage remake, this movie didn't pack as much of a punch as it could have, since the plot twists and shocking ending had already been spoiled. In spite of knowing what was going to happen, though, I still found plenty of surprises in this film to keep me sufficiently entertained. This is because The Wicker Man is probably one of the quirkiest things I've ever seen, next to "Devil's Rain." Actually, quirky doesn't even begin to describe it! From the "lewd" musical numbers (yes, there are musical numbers) to the parade where the people of Summersisle are wearing animal masks and medieval costumes, it is downright weird, but in a really cool way. Unfortunately, some of today's more cynical movie watchers might snort at derision at all this weirdness, but I found it more imaginative if anything.

Another thing that was great about this film was Edward Woodward's performance. For the first 2/3rds of this film, he does such an incredible job portraying Howie as an insufferable jerk that half the time you're screaming, "Just leave them alone, you idiot!" and the other half you're just dying for someone to punch his lights out. And yet when you watch the final scenes, Woodward conveys so much humanity that after hating his guts for most of the film your heart weeps for him. I can't remember any performance in recent memory where an actor was *that good*, where he could have the audience booing for a character for so long and yet get it to sympathize with him in the end.

At any rate, needless to say I really enjoyed The Wicker Man. I don't think everyone *will* enjoy it, though, because it definitely is an acquired taste. However, I do recommend anyone who's seen the Nicolas Cage remake to see it, if only for the curiosity factor. It may not provide the same amount of "unintentional laughs", but it will definitely offer a much better cinematic experience.