"Mutiny on the Bounty" is the fictionalized tale of an actual event whose repercussions are felt to this day.  Captain Bligh is charged with sailing the Bounty to Tahiti to harvest breadfruit plants for transplant to the West Indies - what should ultimately be a two-year mission.  He is commander of a crew made up of both volunteers and those pressed into service by His Majesty's Royal Navy, the latter group being significantly less enthusiastic about their voyage.  Bligh's discipline often crosses the line into malicious sadism and as the months wear on, many in the crew begin to contemplate a mutiny which they execute shortly after departing Tahiti.  Bligh is put into a small boat with those of the crew who remain loyal and performs the amazing feat of sailing 3500 miles over 45 days with very little provision.  He eventually returns to Tahiti, where first mate Christian and the rest of the mutineers reside along with some of the loyal crew who wouldn't fit on the boat.  Capture, return to England, trial, and execution ensue for some of the mutineers.

"Mutiny" is great not because of the acting - Laughton is tremendous as Bligh, Gable is only servicable as Christian, and Tone is poor as conflicted midshipman Byam - but because of the characters that make up the story.  Those performances which are less-than-great are swallowed up by the flow of the story which you can almost feel as an inevitable force driving them all to their fate.  Bligh is to mean to die, Christian is too noble to die, Byam is to honorable to die.  But each receives a very different reward for their actions.

The supporting cast is very solid and really conveys the sense of frustration and anger that builds as time passes on the Bounty.  The shots of the Bounty on the open ocean are magnificent and are easily the equal of those from "Master and Commander".  However, the obviously anglo "Tahitians" can be pretty distracting to someone who's grown up in politically correct America.  Still, it's a minor point, especially in the black-and-white format.

A true classic.  Highly recommend.