The devil is in the details, to use a clich&eacute;d phrase.  I first saw this movie when it first came out and even though I was a Christian at the time, inexplicably it was important to me that the movie gave witches a fair treatment.  This movie was a portent of my future path, and seeing it today as a pagan leaning toward the Celtic path, I was pleasantly surprised that they really did give witches a fair treatment in this movie.  Others have commented endlessly on the plot and the actresses performances, so I'll focus on the minutia/details:

While the sacrificing of a dove at the beginning for a love spell might not go over well with "fluffy bunny" pagans, this could happen in old school (east coast) craft.  The Owens' Book of Shadows looks like a multi-generational BOS, the props department did their homework to make this artifact look real.  The house and garden looked very much as if witches had lived there for multiple generations, again props to the sets department.  I love the fact that most of the magic is subtle.  While real witches, that I know, cannot blow on a candle to make it light, or keep tea stirring without touching a spoon, atropa belladonna, however, is one of the most toxic plants found in the Western hemisphere.  The only God or Goddess mentioned is Hecate, and I have no idea if she could be invoked in necromancy.  While she has been attributed as having ties to the underworld, necromancy is a big "no no" in any craft tradition.  The recurrent theme that I liked the most involved the witches perception when they knew something was happening even if they didn't know what.  This is the trap that I fall into when watching these movies:  It is all a fantasy, and while telekenesis is an unrealistic goal on my path, heightened perception is not.

I believe this movies appeal in general has to do with having a little something for everyone:  Romance, comedy, drama, fantasy, with a peppering of crime drama and horror thrown in for more  "flavor."  I agree that the best quotes in the film are:  "There is no Devil in the Craft;" "You can't practice magic while looking down your nose at it;" "There's a little witch in all of us;" and "Sally just came out!"

I'll need to make a new category for my DVD collection called "good pagan movies," so far I only have this and both "Good Witch" movies to put on my list, now if only those others would come out on DVD.