From The Monitor
Corny dialogue.  Mediocre acting.  Predictable plot.  One great movie.
 "The Replacements" is a movie about athletes who forget salary caps and product endorsements (although this feature is chock-full of product placement) and remember football. 
"The Replacements" is a light comedy, but nevertheless, like "Any Given Sunday," pushes an agenda.  It portrays athletes as money-grubbing crybabies more interested in counting their money than playing.  It suggests that heart and love of the game are lost in professional football, but the agenda is equally lost in the humor and excitement of the hard-hitting games.  
The Washington Sentinels represent the riffraff-composed Washington Redskins who became a darkhorse team during the 1987 National Football League players' strike.  Upon the mid-season strike, the NFL coaches scrambled together a bricolage of players to finish out the season. 
Less retired and more fired Coach Jimmy McGinty, played by Gene Hackman (from Mississippi Burning), is rehired to coach the Washington Sentinels, a ragtag and bobtail consisting of has-beens and never-were, one being former Ohio State quarterback Shane "Footsteps" Falco, AKA Keanu Reeves.  
This jaded group of players met in discord, but with Coach McGinty's tutelage and Falco's lead-by-example bravado, they soon began working as a team, to ultimately compete in their final showdown against Dallas. 
Off the field, Falco is making a `pass' at Sentinel head cheerleader Annabelle Farrell, played by Brooke Langton.  However, Annabelle, with her "I don't date football players...especially quarterbacks" schtick, makes for a tough opponent.  
In the end, Farrell, in light of Falco's growing on her like bacteria in a petri dish, discovers that she does indeed date quarterbacks.
"The Replacements" is not an Oscar candidate but it isn't running for one either.  It is an upbeat movie that instills faith in quixotical dreams.  It adds a little humor, mostly from the mouth of Orlando Jones, who plays Clifford Franklin, as spice for a feelgood entr&eacute;e.  
If you're tired of the sausage of summer action movies perpetually coming from Hollywood's movie meatgrinder, relax, enjoy, and revel in "The Replacements."