A masterpiece of the late studio era, though a little lo0ng in length, Cleopatra newly restored and put on DVD is not to be missed.  There are so many great things about this movie, one in particular. A hollywood movie actually attempting to display the Fall of the Roman Republic (though romanticized), Spartacus attempted to do so, and while that was a decent film, its glaring historical inaccuracy is unforgivable. Never before on film has the great Gaius Julius Caesar been brought to such vivid life, though he was a bit old and slightly overweight. Rex Harrison and Richard Burton make this movie, not Elizabeth Taylor, if she was the center than the whole movie would be her own private birthday party entertainment as if she was a spoiled little girl. Ive seen Taylor in better roles, and this wasn't it.  But R. Harrison as Caesar, and R. Burton as Antony are not to be missed. I notice alot of people are comparing this movie to Gladiator, which is good I think. Gladiator took the idea of the Roman epic and showed the primal brutality, the darkness behind all the marble and gold that was Rome. It is a step in the right direction, H'Wood should seriously consider going back to Republican times and show the world, brilliantly, and truthfully the fall of the Roman republic. This film is the closest to doing so and I applaud it.  Mr. Speilberg, Mr. Scott, even Michael Mann, bring on Colleen Mccullough's books! There's a juicy script waiting to be adapted, I would love and so would many others to see Sulla come to the big screen, despite his ominous mention in Cleopatra:  Harrison (Caesar): "Rome? What was Rome when Sulla died?"  or in Spartacus: Olivier (Crassus): Sulla! To the infamy of his name, to the utter damnation of his line!" McCullough's Masters of Rome would be great to the big screen, what with the success of Gladiator. I would love to see Julius Caesar take the to the silver screen once more and be played not just brilliantly (like Harrison, dialogue, attitude and all) but physically (Caesar was  a lean, trim powerful man, who did not cover his legs with trousers but flaunted every element of his masculinity and sexuality. He was a powerhouse, lets do him justice!  enough about what hollywood should do, just enjoy this movie and consider it a step in the right direction to the perfection of the Roman epic (not yet done).