The Golem is an interesting story though the sets and costumes do not match the time. It is suppossed to be in 16th Century Prague but the costumes look 13th century and the entire period look is much more medieval than Renaissance. The emperor that persecuted the jews in that region then known as Bohemia, was Rudolph I (May 1218 - 15 July 1291, emperor from 1273) not Rudolph II (King of Bohemia from 1575-1608/1611) who quite the contrary, was in best of terms with the head rabbi in Prague and very interested in  the Kabalah.
The Golem is created by the rabbi to save his people. He makes a giant clay statue that becomes alive after a special incantation and he takes it with him to the castle of the emperor, where he frightens him and his court to such a degree that he consents to repeal the edict of evacuation. The scene of giving life to the Golem is the most spooky.
However an assistant to the rabbi is in love with his daughter, who is having an affair of her own with another man she likes better than him. He hears them talking in her bedchamber and revives the Golem, which sets out to destroy the intruder and throws him off the top of the tower, the whole persecution of the intruder by the Golem is the most exciting part of the film. This situation enables the rabbi's daughter to become hysterical, and scream her head off, all of which she does very well and enthuthiastically.
There is also a fire provoked by the Golem, and the whole ghetto is alarmed. The fire destroys the Tower in a beautiful, terryfying sequence, but the rabbi has a magical spell to quench the fire, which he uses right on time so the ghetto is saved.
The lighting is very well utilized in the film to create a constant air of mystery and danger.The Golem always looks fearsome and menacing and his eyes and facial expression reminded me of the sculpture that was alive in the castle of the Beast in Cocteau's "Beauty and the Beast".
This film is entertaining and elegant, but also an important step in the development of German Expressionist cinema, for which I do recommend seeing it. Now I am very curious to see how it influenced "Faust' and "Nosferatu".