This movie is about a purebred Cocker Spaniel, who is later named Lady, that is given to the wife of, as Lady refers to him, Jim-dear. She has 2 neighbor dog friends, Jock and Trusty whom she confides in often. As she gets older, Lady's owner is expecting a baby, in which Lady feels like she is no longer a part of the family. She meets a mutt from the streets, Tramp, who comes by after being chased by the city dog catcher. They meet again after Lady escapes the arms of Aunt Sarah in a pet store because she is buying a muzzle to avoid Lady harming her cats. Tramp comes to her rescue to get the muzzle off and they go for a romantic dinner at Tony's (spaghetti no less!). They spend some time on the streets, get to know eachother, and come to find they like eachother. Lady realizes that she needs to return home, she does so, and is caught by the city dog catcher, tossed into the pound where she meets Tramp's "friends", and is told everything about his street life. When Aunt Sarah retrieves her from the pound, she is then chained up outside to a leaky dog house. Tramp comes by to see her some time after, and she tells him she doesn't ever want to see him again. Shortly after, Lady notices a rat come into the yard. It goes upstairs into the baby's room, and Lady tries to stop it, but is still chained up. Tramp hears her barking and comes to see what's going on. She tells him there is a rat in the baby's room, he goes into the house, up to the baby's room, and fights to keep the rat from the baby. He makes a lot of noise in doing so along with knocking over the baby's crib. Lady gets loose, runs upstairs after Tramp, but Aunt Sarah soon shows up, calling the dog pound to retrieve Tramp, and throw Lady into a room where she cannot get to the baby. As soon as Jim-dear and his wife return from their trip that very same evening, they notice a dog pound carriage outside their house. They run home, ask what happened, let Lady out of the room she was trapped in, and they all go after the dog pound carriage to save Tramp (Trusty getting hurt in the process by following the carriage and knocking it over to save Tramp). Tramp is saved, given a dog license, and a home with Lady and her family. Then they all live happily ever after!

 This Disney classic is one you HAVE to own! I've loved this movie since I was 2, and I still love it today at the age of 19! There is no better cartoon about dogs than this!! This is a must have!