In most movies (and in real life), road trips play out in a pretty clich&eacute; way: the car gets loaded with clothes and food and booze and everyone heads out in hopes of having a good time.

In "The Motorcycle Diaries," the road trip scenario is entirely different.  First of all, the two men making the road trip ride on a motorcycle instead of taking a car.  Second, the trip is through South America in the 1950s.  And third, a bunch of wild, American college students aren't the ones venturing out; it's Alberto Granado and his friend, Che Guevara.

"The Motorcycle Diaries" is based on Che's journals of the same name-journals which described the road trip he took at only 23, a semester before graduating from medical school.

The film version of "The Motorcycle Diaries" is an excellent adaptation of Che's memoir, showing the leader of the Cuban revolution in a light with which most people are unfamiliar.  When we think of famous people of the past, it's easy to only think of the time while they were famous.  So in "The Motorcycle Diaries," it's interesting to see Che as a young man-a man who hadn't yet defined his ideologies.  His ideologies didn't become well-defined until after his trip through South America, (which the film doesn't cover, but I'm guessing will be the focus of Steven Soderbergh's upcoming Che project), but I could see him thinking and changing as he traveled across the continent.

"The Motorcycle Diaries" is thankfully subtle, showing Che not as an inflated hero, but as a likable human being.  When Che (Gael Garcia Bernal) leaves home with his friend Alberto (Rodrigo De la Serna), he hopes to learn a lot about the world and himself, but, like any regular person, he also hopes to have a good time.  And even though the trip is difficult, he does manage to have fun.  But his fun isn't what sticks with him the most; it's the poverty he sees.

Throughout his journey, Che is astounded by the inequities of the world; he is disheartened that he can comfortably attend medical school while an equally worthy person in Chile or Peru can't find a good job.  Obviously, he later adheres to a Communist ideology, but that isn't mentioned in "The Motorcycle Diaries."  We only see him as a shrewd observer, one who hasn't yet found his revolutionary fuel, but one who is discovering the beginnings of inspiration.

"The Motorcycle Diaries" is reflective, informative, inspiring and entertaining.  As the first major motion picture about Che, it does a great job of covering the early years of his life, perhaps providing even the final cinematic word on the subject.