I really enjoyed this, but Im a hardcore, long time GL fan. I'm sure most comic fans will enjoy.

Lets talk about the movie:

PROS:
Loved the animation. Somewhere between anime and the DC animated universe

Great stories. All of the Tales from the Corps were entertaining and complete unto itself. Fun, engaging, and had some great lanterns in it.

Sinestro. Man, I love him as a GL. From First Flight and here, hes a great character. Geoff Johns has done a remarkable job in changing his character from a one-note villain to a truly complex character. Well done.

Extras. I enjoyed the Batman: Year One extended preview (although Ben Mackenzie seems like a bad choice for BATMAN, imo.)

CONS:
The framing story with Krona. Very weak. Theres no story there. No explanation of Krona, really other than a few throwaway lines. He's not really much more than a cosmic Godzilla in the film. Disappointing.

If you're a GL fan, you've read most of the stories as GLC stories. Its great to see them animated, but there's no fresh stories really here, I dont think. Lots of recycling from old GLC annuals and such. (Something extremely disappointing is the continued smacking in the face of Alan Moore. I get it. DC owns the stories, But man, do they rely on his genius in their projects. 2 of the stories here come directly from past Tales of the Corps that he created. They are great stories, but I feel bad for the guy....)

Ring constructs. This is animation- no excuse for the laziness of this. While there were some good ones, there just a lots of ring blasting more than anything else. A few swords and weapons here and there, but nothing creative- no egg beaters, or baseball gloves, you know? Something thats used as a weapon, without actually being one. The previews I've seen of the upcoming movie look like they do a lot more with that than you'll see here.

The packaging. This is some of the weakest, lamest packaging ever. No insert, terrible DVD illustration. Just awful and cheap. But you're here for the movie, not the packaging, Im guessing...

OVERALL:
As I said, if you're a GL fan, or like comics/sci fi, its a totally entertaining 80+ minutes at a good price....