I AM a keened collector of those glorious and classic Technicolor movies (the most sought-after being the pictures where the Kalmus couple - the inventor of the Technicolor dye process - presided over to make every segment as postcard-gorgeous as possible) fortunately available in the DVD format. Of the hundreds of DVD films I've archived in the family home, the often-seen ones that I return to again and again, only boils down to around ten. At the top of the list is Wizard of Oz, GOOD NEWS, Sound of Music, Ten Commandments, Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, Marty and...Batman. The DVD transfer of this four-decade old film is one of the most superb I've owned, its one among the very select that could appear as brilliant and clean when shown on a 50-inch Mitsubishi projector TV. This film doesn't hold much cinematic nostalgia for me because I wasn't born yet when it was premiered, its the idea of Batman as he is drawn, depicted and acted in this film and in the comic book of that period that truly draws me to value it like I treasure the book "My Bible Friends" or my old World's Finest comics. Since I've shown it this year to my 3-year old niece and nephew, it truly REVOLUTIONIZE and animates them, as well as their imagination, to a height that their Lego toys or  dolls can barely approximate. My nephew has even requested to have his birthday cake adorned with the Batman logo and a ceramic figure. It truly warms me seeing them appreciate the character, and being able to identify with the wholesome zeitgeist and ideals of Batman and the way movies are being done during that time. It was a period when people still holds an "Absolute Morality" and reveres the Judeao-Christian ethics, so sadly absent now in Western culture. I don't have children myself that's why I am gladdened when my nephews shares my enthusiasm for this classic "memorabilias." If you care for Technicolor movies, kindly add Batman to your collection, its no Cecil B. deMilles but the quality and the innocence of the proceedings is qulaifiably priceless. And I'm saying this direct from THE PHILIPPINES!