In Gosford Park Robert Altman sets himself an almost impossible task, and pulls off what might be The Perfect Movie.  This one has it all: drama (both high and low) and comedy, sex and violence, incredible beauty and vile human ugliness.  It has a script that one would think some mid-level executive in Hollywood would have squashed as being more story than could be told in two-plus hours, and it probably needed a Robert Altman both to get the green light for the project in the first place and then to actually pull it off.
The setting is a large British country house in the '30s, and the plot centers around the house residents and several wealthy guests and all their servants at the house for a weekend of hunting.  Immediately the house is divided between the nobles and the servants, and much of the next two hours' interplay involves this distinct class difference.  The guests interact with the house residents and the other guests, while the visiting servants are accommodated by the butler and head housekeeper and head chef of the house.  The nobles come downstairs occasionally to give instructions, and the servants are quitely everywhere as the nobles discuss all their dirty little secrets (and make some new ones).  All the doings upstairs are duly scrutinized and analyzed by the servant corps, and alliances are formed and fall as events unfold.
This all requires a very large cast (and he could not possibly have cast better--there are too many standouts to mention) but Altman begins with Maggie Smith and her maid and driver, to set the tone and to introduce a pivotal character, and also to ease us into what will shortly be a very hectic scene.  We meet a few others as she makes her journey, and she arrives at the house to join the fray.  Each character plays a vital part in what begins as a huge and confusing puzzle, and each little story and subplot is essential to the fabulous, three-dimensional whole that is, almost miraculously, birthed at the end.
But that intricacy places some demands on the viewer; indeed, the most common criticism I've seen is from viewers who wander innocently into the fray and never find their way back out.  It's a movie that requires rapt attention at all times, but it rewards us by leaving us stunned and breathless not for the body count or special effects but simply for the sheer virtuosity of the story-telling.  That he actually pulls it all together in the end is a bit like watching a vaudeville juggler who keeps 18 plates spinning while singing an opera aria and balancing on a beach ball with one foot: you're convinced A) that it can't be done, and B) that even if it CAN be done it won't be accomplished this time!  The first time I saw it I was wowed but left the theater still wondering about a couple of the characters.  The second time it made much more sense, but I think there are discoveries aplenty to be made by further viewings (which will have to wait for the DVD)!
Movies are about story-telling, and about the human beings in those stories.  No special effects budget can take the place of great writing, or of a substantial idea well-executed.  But maybe if movies like this are becoming rarer (though it's been a good year for movies) it makes one like Gosford Park stand out from the hail of bullets and reminds us what great story-telling really is.