We watched this movie in our church last Sunday...although I did see the advertisements for it when it was first released, I have to admit it did not appeal to me--not because it was a Christian movie, but because it was about football.  I didn't even look forward to watching it when our church announced they would be showing it.  I am so glad I took the time to watch it!  This was one of the best movies I have seen in a very long time: not because of the acting (the actors were volunteers, this was obvious) but because it was a clean, uplifting movie that didn't have any violence, sex, or swearing in it.  Yes, the movie was predictable, but aren't +95% of all movies?  What is that old saying,"it's not what's at the end of the road it's how you get there"?  This movie had our youth pumped up and on fire for God and the positive changes He can make in your life if only you allow Him to.  That right there is reason to give it five stars!  When teenagers get excited over a movie that doesn't have sex, drugs, violence etc. in it, that tells you a whole lot-more than any review in the world could do.  This film appeals to all ages: my six year old son loved it, the older folks in our church loved it (I am talking about senior citizens), parents, teenagers, etc., I just can't recommend it enough!
And if I can address some of the comments about this movie being racist: WHAT!?  That is something that never crossed my mind while watching it.  Maybe those people that posted those reviews don't understand that many, many schools in America are not 'equally mixed' when it comes to representing all races.  There are so many schools in America that are predominately white, black, hispanic etc., it just depends where you live.  This was a state championship they were playing for--a small Christian (private) school against a much larger public school.  What got me was the Giants had 85 players on their team where the Eagles only had 31 or so.  The whole race thing never once crossed my mind, and it was never played up to be like that.  I wonder if the movie would have been based in a Northern state (such as New York for example) those same comments would have been made in the few reviews I am refering to.  Instead,it is easy to bash a movie made in the South as being racist and having a hidden agenda.  The movie was made up my many volunteers from the church that helped create it,they didn't have a huge budget to hire actors, they used the people in the church to make it.  Had it been a church with mostly black people in it most likely would have been the opposite...more black people than white people.  Either way, it was a great movie, and it is a shame someone had to drag the race card in on it.  If you would like to read a little more on the background of the making of this movie, go to: [...]
reading up on how it was made will make you appreciate it that much more.