If you were watching The White Ribbon 'for entertainment purposes" and were disappointed enough to give the movie one star, then you were definitely barking up the wrong tree watching this.  Simultaneously disturbing, hypnotic and probably the most beautiful film ever shot in digital black and white, Haneke's movie asks some very troubling questions about the nature of German society in the early years of the 20th century and the prevalence of unquestioned obedience, violence and malevolent forces hiding behind middle-class values and morality.  Haneke uses stock figures--the teacher, the doctor, the pastor, the midwife, the baron, his wife and the foreman on his estate--to analyze the forces at play over the course of a year in an isolated pre-industrial north German village around 1913, and the unexplainable evil that could break out in this microcosm.  The German edition of this movie is subtitled "Eine deutsche Kindergeschichte"--a German children's tale, because of the immensely important role that children play in this film.  Every time another accident, another crime happens, the children of the village just so happen on the scene shortly thereafter.  Is this coincidence, or are they the perpetrators of evil, a twisted generation reacting to the stifling restrictions of this suffocating society by getting their kicks hurting others, about to play out this evil in the Great War and beyond?  These young actors are amazing and they keep you constantly guessing. Haneke explains in the extras that he had to screen test over 2,000 kids in every major German-speaking city to find the right child actors, and even then had to look for more in Paris to finally cast the children's roles.  I have watched this movie six times, and I still haven't figured out who did what.  I have my suspicions. But it keeps gnawing at me, making me want to see it once more.  Naw, this isn't much 'for entertainment purposes," but it's damned good art.  It deserved the Oscar nomination it got, just as much as the Golden Globe it won.