what is the matrix and what is reloaded? is it a philosophically hard look at life and the way we live it now? becoming too dependent on machines to do even the simplest of tasks such as talking. or is it just an overblown hollywood movie that royally sucked? many have said that the matrix reloaded was horrible but it actually wasn't. here was a film, a sequal no less, that had a lot to say on the hold that computers and machines already have on us now. as for the answer to the question of what is relaoded, well here goes. reloaded may just simply mean more of the same. sorta a weak variation on the 1st matrix but i think that reloaded refers to the never ending struggle between man and machine. always reloaed or reloading. i went the day this movie came out after work with the one that is my soulmate and our friend. we all truly thought this film was excellent. the 15 minute car chase is the best sequence ever put to film. this movie deserves to win more than the technical oscars that it will receive. are there bad scenes in the movie? yes, i will admitt that the rave scene was bad but everything else was excellent. and i want to add another viewpoint to the whole everyone's in rags and their shoes are horrid. yes they have all this wonderful technology down below and yes it's the 30th century. but you have to remember that relying on machines too much is what got them in this mess. they are using machines as little as possible so this dosen't happen again. if they were using machines to make great clothes and shoes the audience would probably think what idiots they are and they deserve what the machines do to them if they are that stupid to be makng the same mistake twice. anyway to sum all this up i offer this scene. after the movie me, my bf, and our friend are sitting around discussing the philiospy of this movie and discerning the meaning behind some of the scenes all over cheesburgers. if a movie can get you to talk philosophy over burgers then it has to be a damn good movie.