The publicity and hype that accompanied this production of Traviata, along with some less than favorable reviews, made me ignore it until quite recently. When I finally bought this DVD, I was absolutely stunned by its emotional power and impact.

A drama is unfolding in front of us, with the omnipresent Fate (or perhaps Death?) confronting the heroine sentenced to permanent stage presence, on the stage of her life that is running out too fast. She must face the large wall clock whose time is accelerating her to untimely death. What time is it? We never exactly know, but certainly we feel that it is too late, far too late for everything, for love and happiness, and for normal life... Just before her death, the Fate becomes her doctor, only to tell that she has but a few hours to live. The minimalistic approach, the stark empty stage with its clock and with the red or white sofa, combined with the outstanding singing and acting by the principals (especially by Anna and Rolando), creates the most powerful and unique experience I have ever seen in an Opera. The musical and emotional impact of this production is totally unique and unforgettable.

I am unable to add anything novel or original to the existing descriptions of the unique dark timbre and exceptional beauty of Anna's voice. It grew onto me slowly but steadily until she won me over completely, especially by her recent recordings including the Russian album, the Souvenirs, the Manon (also with Villazon), and I Capuletti e i Montecchi (with Elina Garanca). Anna sings gorgeously and seemingly effortlessly in almost any body position, something quite unseen before. Currently there seem to be no limit whatsoever to what she could do. Fortunately she is sufficiently different from the other leading contemporary sopranos, especially from Angela Gheorghiu (my other favorite), that there is no real competition there. Anna's voice blends especially well with the mezzo voice of Elina Garanca, and I am very much looking forward to their future joint productions.