What made the original Katherine Ross "Stepford Wives" so chilling was the feeling like it could happen. Just suppose the world is a little, not a lot, more surprising than you think it is, and that could happen. That movie has enduring quality. The Nicole Kidman remake of "Stepford Wives" is played as tongue-in-cheek and it's not scary and it's not even any good.

Will Smith gets better every year. He msde this splendid movie "I, Robot" happen. He's a fine actor but a better producer, and to him we owe gratitude for advancing the literature of the cinema. It's a great movie, and conceptually profound. We "intelligent" wet-brained primates construct a marvelous apparatus, with unexpected capabilities and implications, that gives new scope to our emotions. It joins classics "Pinocchio", "Frankenstein", "Forbidden Planet" and others, exploring that familiar theme from a previously little seen aspect.

But oh... the fatal flaw... The "action" scenes just aren't believable. Dozens of robots attacked Spooner repeatedly. He shot and ruined them all with the endless ammunitiion from his gun. And then there was the Evel-Knievel scene with the motorcycle in the air. All that stupidity would better have been left on the cutting room floor. What's the point? Creating a few screenshots for the "I, Robot" video game? It's like putting a Formica surface on a Marie Antoinette dressing table. It will cost "I, Robot" an Oscar.

Will, I love you anyway, but sorry. You may be remembered eternally for what history may yet judge as a cinematic masterpiece. You may join the pantheon with Steven Speilberg, Howard Hawks, Ridley Scott, John Ford, David Lean, George Lucas. But I think it more likely the consensus will rank this movie slightly lower than a Guy Hamilton 007 flick.

Imagine if Spooner had just been portrayed as something a real human might possibly be. The plot could have had him personally and luckily defeat two, or maybe even three robots. Then we could have believed that, if the world had a little more surprise than we might have expected, the  story of the movie might some day come true. It would have chilled us to the bone. It could have started a political movement of neo-Luddites. It could have landmarked a new age of cinema, and Will Smith would be remembered forever.

Will, I'm looking forward to your next opus.