I don't like to write reviews about movies too often because I watch so many movies, and I don't usually have anything new to add to the discussion that someone else didn't already point out.  Also, I usually forget the title and other details of a movie a few days after I've scene it, there are so many throw away films. But, I feel compelled to write a review for this movie, maybe for therapeutic reasons.

I settled in to watch this movie only knowing that it was a movie about a killer and starred Casey Affleck, Jessica Alba and Kate Hudson.  Started out fine, period piece about the 40s, whatever. Then, Jessica Alba's prostitute character is introduced....and she starts to slap Casey Affleck repeatedly out of frustration, as he is trying to run her out of town.  Ok, fine, whatever.  Then they quickly ascend into a kinky S & M relationship...Ok, fine whatever!

***Spoiler Alert***Then J.A. and C.A. cook up a plan to bamboozle a rich local to secure financial freedom...the plan is set in motion, then C.A. goes over to J.A.'s house and, out of nowhere, literally BEATS her to death with his fists, by punching her repeatedly in the face.  It is so violent and graphic that I wanted to vomit. In thinking about it, I guess it's not watching someone get punched to death alone that is so disturbing..there are so many violent movies out there....I think what made it so sickening is that she just sat there and let him do it, she was so deep into the whole S & M psychological thing that she is almost adoring him while he punches her over and over in the face.  It is just bone chilling and wrong.  It is truly misogynistic.

C.A. later uses similar treatment on Kate Hudson, though to a lesser degree.  Throughout the film, there are flashbacks to C.A.'s youth in which a young woman, presumably his mother, sexually abuses him.  They also show him as a youth terrorizing and abusing young girls.  Quite disgusting. I feel kind of dismayed that I found the overall movie so compelling and suspenseful, in spite of my natural instinct to despise it.  However, the ending truly stunk and was quite far fetched.  As C.A. knows the jig is up and he is backed into a corner, he douses his whole house with gasoline and awaits the arrival of the feds.  Well, the feds show up and none of them seem to catch a whiff of the gas...subsequently, when they go to shoot C.A., the house bursts into explosive flames.  Oh yeah, but not before he kills Jessica Alba a SECOND time.  I am not even going to explain that part of it...if at this point you still want to watch this movie, you will see for yourself.