As you may have read, this movie covers events from the Battle of Stalingrad 1942, which was the turning point of the war against Nazi Germany.  This was a brutal battle during a harsh winter and the casualties were horrific.  Brutalities occurred from both sides fighting the battle, the Nazi's, which are well known, and the Soviets, the brutalities of which are alarmingly little known.  Considering the library shelves full of the atrocities committed by the Soviets, there remains a dichotomy on the coverage committed by both of these totalitarian regimes.  An acknowledgment of the nature of the Soviet Union will be when there's an equivalent Schindler's List Hollywood movie, heaped with loads of awards, and broadcast on network TV without commercial interruption.  That day may be a long time off, or may never occur, so there only exist whatever rare movies occur on it.  There are a few telling statements here and there, Bob Hoskins as Krushchev, the Communist political leader in the battle, asks another soldier what he thinks can be done to motivate the Soviet soldiers, and he replies threaten their families, to which Krushchev lets out a "pfthh, of course we already tried that!".  This is a realistic comment on the mentality of the Russians who killed thousands of their own troops in disciplinary actions.  There's a comment on the `political correctness' of the movie.  It's the other way around, politically correct would be to say how great the Russians were in WWII.  The fact that this Hollywood movie has been released and is un-politically correct is what's surprising, and is why you should view such a rarity.

There is a duel between two snipers in the movie, one German, one Russian.  It's should have been more of a back story as opposed to being the plot.  There's also a love interest.  Apparently aspects of these events did occur, but you should consider this a fictional movie of course, although the historical background certainly isn't.  It's not a great movie, because of the sniper and love interest are so-so done, but it's a good movie, and one of the few large screen Hollywood cinematic releases on the subject, is relatively short at a bit over two hours considering the subject matter, and is essential viewing for anyone interested in Stalingrad and the nature of the Soviet Union.  If you have further interest, there are numerous documentaries that could and should be watched on the Battle for Stalingrad.