AWFUL.  So agonizingly slow that my BONES hurt - until it was over, when I breathed perhaps the longest sigh of relief in my entire lifetime.

As for the Five Star ratings?  In the art world, regardless of genre, there will always be a handful of people who love things truly awful - or at least claim to.  It makes them feel intellectually superior to the rest of us.  They're enlightened, somehow.

God bless them.

But I've found that a pretty good percentage of them have a problem with their intellectual honesty.  Take my friend, Jane (not her real name), who's a vegan CRUSADER. I've actually watched her RETCH at the site of raw red meat.  She should be an actress. Oops... excuse me - acTOR. (Enlightend females don't like to be called "actress.") Anyway, a couple years back while on a business trip 500 miles from our hometown - small world that it is - so was she. I observed her at a Ruby Tuesday's, where she was DEVOURING one of their signature prime burgers - on the RARE side - as if she hadn't eaten in a month. It had been a VERY long time since I'd seen anyone so completely relish what they were eating.  I chose not to embarrass her.  But I've sinced seized the opportunity several times, during her vegan crusades.  I'll discreetly pull her aside and say, simply, "Jane... Rudy Tuesday's... Cleveland.  Shhhhhhhh..."

There's a room in Jane's basement about which she's quite protective. There's actually a PADLOCK on the door. My guess it she has a second refrigerator there, where she keeps her secret stash of canned tuna; beef; chicken; pork; milk; and Oreos.

I noted a few weeks back that she has a copy of "Paranoid" on her DVD shelf - that's how I first found out about it.  She "positively adores it." That's a quote. Enlightened people seem to adore lots of stuff.  I watched it today on IFC, and when it was over (phew!) the evil me thought, "next time I'm at Jane's, I'm going to seal her Paranoid DVD shut without her knowledge."  Then I'll make a wager with myself that two or three years down the road, I'll inspect the package and note that it's still taped shut - even though Jane will have claimed that she watches it no less than two or three times a year, religiously.  Enlightened people are often agnostic or even atheist.  But they're religious about lots of other stuff.

If you're not in that 1/10th of 1 percent of the elightened "Janes" among us, trust me: this is among the most unwatchable films ever made.  It is truly 90 minutes of your life you WILL regret having totally wasted.