I am here to warn the world! Beware!
I just walked out of a screening for the film 'SOUL SURVIVORS', and I must say that this had to have been the worst film I have seen in a long time. This movie sucked like no other movie has ever sucked before.
There have been two films in my lifetime where I have walked out of while giving the screen the bird...'Bats', and this piece of garbage. I cannot fathom how or WHY this would ever get a green light.
Have you seen JACOB'S LADDER? OK, now think of JACOB'S LADDER and make it suck...real bad...then replace every actor in JACOB'S LADDER with Keanu Reeves...that's right...ALL of them! Even the girls. And just when you think it can't get any worse, enter Luke Wilson's character. I HATE that guy. Didn't mind him in BOTTLE ROCKET, but hated him in everything I've seen him in since. ACK!
Steve Carpenter (the director and writer who should be blamed for this
travesty) stole any somewhat half-decent ideas from the movie that did it right the first time around 11 years ago (yes, JACOB'S LADDER). Even after stealing ideas from one of the scariest films of the past 25 years, they still do not achieve a single emotion from anyone (OK, maybe laughter).
This is NOT by ANY means a horror film. It is not a thriller. It is not an interesting film...it is a SH**TY film. In fact, this is the first film *marketed as a horror/thriller/slasher* where there is a ZERO*0*ZERO body count...NOBODY DIES! NO ONE! In fact, people come BACK TO LIFE (and no, not in a good zombie-like way)!
I know I am giving away spoilers, but I am also assuming that you guys will NEVER waste what precious time you have on this earth watching excrement like this. I would rather shave my scrotum with a rusty cheese grater while tearing out my fingernails. And a note to all you horny Eliza Dushku fans out there, despite what you saw in the trailer, don't get any ideas...NOTHING HAPPENS save for a scene where the 2 leading ladies end up in the shower together (with all of their clothes on).
So, I think I've given you my over-all impression of this film. Believe me when I say that I would be more inclined to watch BATS all over again
instead of hearing the title of this movie. Now, let's all forget about it and watch JACOB'S LADDER!!!