As the owner of an Akita for almost 12 years (now at 'The Bridge'), I have been anxiously waiting for the Hachiko Monogatari, 1987 Japanese production, to be adapted for the American audience. I was so pleased that they kept the story simple; one of a man and his dog, of forging bonds of unconditional love and devotion. And, even though I knew the story very well and, prepared myself in advance, the tears were inevitable.

Going straight to DVD, this film will not be a big money maker, therefore, I consider it a timeless gift and treasure, from all involved with the project.  It was not easy, taking a year to complete, clearly becoming a labor of love.  Watching Gere interact with the dogs, you can tell he is truly in his element. The joy on his face makes you believe that Hachi really is his devoted companion. I truly thank and respect Gere for joining such a challenging endeavor and I can't think of anyone more perfect for the role of the sensitive Professor.

Throughout the film, it was made fairly clear, that Akitas are not typical dogs. This was further evidenced in the 'Making of the Film.'  The trainers thought they had met their match, when two months into the project, the dogs simply would not perform.  They found that Akitas are no trick-ponies; they are stubborn and don't suffer foolish tasks.  With much patience, the project was eventually successful. You will also find a comment following the credits about how Akitas are NOT for everyone.  I consider these additions to the film to represent responsible education regarding Akita ownership, and, I applaud them for the inclusions.

I must add, that although I dearly love Akitas, they are not the only breed with histories of bravery and devotion.  Given proper training and bonding, some mixed breed dogs that we unfortunately see chained in backyards, might show the same call of duty. It's not so much about the breed, but creating the connection---opening one's heart, and truly letting that furry creature in, which Gere lovingly demonstrates in the film.

I think Hachiko's story is a good reminder, that ALL dogs have thinking, emotive minds; that they are, family, not something to be possessed. That said, Hachi will continue to educate us from the grave, for generations to come.  I can't think of a more profound legacy.

This is a beautifully rendered, family film---one that, once watched, will never be forgotten. It is destined to become a classic.  I can't recommend it highly enough; just have tissues at hand.