When I first came across this show on our local PBS station, I was sure I was going to hate it.  After all, it was British comedy which meant that, as an American, I'd find it "stuffy" and up tight and wouldn't "get" the humor.  Instead, I instantly fell in love with it.  The summary above captures the basic premise of the show -- big city surgeon ends up as small town GP.  It seems like a one-trick gimmick but, in reality, the series is so much more.  It's a gem!

The writing is exceptional and the strength of the show -- the best I've seen on TV, ever.  Each DM episode snaps with witty repartee and dialogue that makes you look forward to the next word that comes out of each character's mouth.  There are SO MANY memorable lines -- thinking about them later in the day brings a smile to your face.  The humor comes from the emotions of life itself (love, hate, jealousy, humiliation)  -- rather than British mores or conventions.  Thus, whether you're a Brit, American, Canadian, Aussie, whatever, you'll be laughing aloud within five minutes.  Note that while DM is  primarily comedy (although I'd call it humor), it certainly has its moments of drama and the show transitions from one to another flawlessly.

Without spoiling anything, each "series" has an overarching theme that is developed as a story arc throughout the course of the 6-8 episodes. Within each series and each episode are mini sub-plots involving the patients and locals.  It's all neatly wrapped together in the final episode of each season -- or as "neatly" as anything can be where DM is concerned.  You'll see . . .

The acting is first-rate and really pulls through the excellent writing.  Clunes creates in Doc Martin a character that you hate to love.  He puts together the whole package -- dialogue, physical mannerisms, and facial expressions. DM is rude and dismissive of patients who waste his time but, when someone is truly sick or injured, the passion and technical competence shine through. And, his interactions with the locals are simply priceless.

The on and off romance with the local schoolteacher could be trite, but instead it's fascinatingly tortured.  Catz more than holds her own with the dominating personality of DM and acting of Clunes.  The supporting cast of villagers and patients is outstanding and many have compelling backstories that weave in and out of the doctor's life.  The constables (two over the four series) are standouts.

The series are best watched in order.  Once you start on episode 1, you'll want to watch the next 29 without stopping.  This is comedy and drama at its best and will leave you eagerly awaiting Series 5 (scheduled for this year).