This DVD, though only 6 episodes, is completely worth it, loaded with deleted scenes and commentary, this will keep you occupied.

The popularity of this show didn't truly pick up until Carrells acting career propelled with 40 Year Old Virgin, which was right after the first season.

People started to catch on to it and has gotten a much bigger following ever since.  The first season is definitely great, a little slow to start (but that's expected since they have to introduce the characters to the audience) adjusting to the style and comedy of the show (no laugh tracks, ackward silences) and the show has vastly improved in its 2nd season.

Every single supporting character on the show is incredibly well done.  I've really come to love all the characters on the show and is funny because you can pick people at your office that match the characters perfectly (at least i can anyways).

A lot of people need some time adjusting to Carrells character because he is a jerk, idiotic, obnoxious, and definitely not PC.  It's a whole lot to take in for most people, but I love how extreme the character is, and I'm a jerk my self so it all works out, even so, you still can't help but love him.

 My favorite character (who very often steals the spotlight from carrell) is Dwight Schrute.  Everytime he's in a scene i'm laughing.  The little things he say have me crying.  I loved the episode in the 2nd season where he thinks it's friday but it's actually thursday, and Jim and Pam are egging him on to believe it's friday, and they bring up the apprentice and asks who got fired, and they ask him "you didn't see it?" he says "NO!  I was out getting drunk with my laser tag team!"  When I was in high school I worked at an arcade that had laser tag, and teams with nothing but dwight schrutes would come in, that hit the spot right there.

You have to love Pam, the conservatively dressed but still sexy receptionist is always playfull flirting with Jim, and assisting him with pranks on Dwight.  I am convinced they won't hook up until the very last episode of the series, which is probably better that way.

Anyways, with the smash success of the 2nd season (still in progress) that has me in high anticipation of the dvd release, I can't wait for a 3rd season, as the show keeps evolving and becoming funnier with every episode.  I haven't watched a sitcom in years, and this will be the only one I watch until they *gulp* cancel it.