Oh Yeah!  The Emperor's New Groove is the "grooviest animated trip since Alladin."  This is a great movie.  That is why it has the honor of being a collector's edition DVD set.  This 2 - disc edition is one of the best disney ones avaible.  Lets start at the beginning.
To start, read the letter by Thomas Schumacher.  It sums up the features contained here.  Then pop in the DVD and watch this hip, funny, and sassy movie.  After this  head over to bonus features on disc 1. (It is the Extra Gravy menu.)  Here, you should start by playing the "Emperor's Got Game."  This game has two parts.  First, you answer five questions from the movie.  Get two wrong and you have to start over.  Then, you go into the secret lab and mix a potion that will turn the emperor back into a human.  There are three potions and one combination of all three.  Find it and win!
The second feature is the fabulous audio commentary.  This audio commentary featrues the director Mark Dindal, producer Randy Fulmer, Supervising Animators Nik Ranieri and Bruce W. Smith, Art Director Colin Stimpson, Character Designer Joseph C Moshier, and Head of Story Stephen Andersen.  This will give  you a great look behind the scenes of this movie.  Another feature is the Rascal Flats music video, "Walk the Llama Llama.  Learn how to dance the Llama Dance!  Then, pop this disc into the DVD-Rom drive of your computer and you could play three games:  The Emperor's Got Game, The Emperor's Adventure Game, and Groove Center.  Also, watch the movie, go to weblinks, and register the DVD.  And this is just half of the fun.
Now, we ride the groove.  Randy Fulmer and Mark Dindal's intro is hilarious on disc 2.  They will tell you what's on the disc.  Then, they will get you past the security guard to get into the top secret studio.  When you reach the Secret Lab menu, begin at "Get Into the Groove."  I like to start at the "Studio Groove."  You will run around the studio learning about how a film is made.  You dodge one close call when an animator almost catches you.  The second groove, "The Animation Groove," is a series of split-screen comparisons.
After this, head to the Developement menu.  Start at the featurette on the Developement Process.  There is a featurette on the reasearch trip as well.  You will get a chance to read the story treatment and look at concept art of the movie here.  Learn about the original idea for the film named "Kingdom of the Sun."  Look at concept art for this as well.
Groove on to the story and editiorial.  Watch the featurette on The Story Process.  Watch three different story pitches for a scene, and watch a featurette on putting storyboards up on reels.  Also showcased here are three deleted and unused scenes.  The first one is about the Destruction of Pacha's Village, Pacha's Family, and the Original Ending.  Each of these has an introduction as well.
Next stop, Layouts and Backgrounds.  Begin on a featurette about the Layout and Background Departments.  Then go to the Scene Planning.  Watch the featurette on Scene Planning then watch a storyboard to background comparison.  Then look at the workbook gallery.  Finally, look at the three layouts and backgrounds galleries.
Groove On!  Next comes animation.  Watch the featurette on The Animation Process.  Begin with a featurette on CGI Props.  Go to clean-up animation.  You get a comparison for rough animation to clean up animation.  Then look at the model sheet gallery.  Next comes Character Animation.  Learn about the Character's voices, watch a comparison for background to rough animation, then check out the Character Design.  The First character is Kuzco.  Here is a gallery and test animation.  Then Yzma, Kronk, and Pacha all have rough animation.  Then the next galleries are on Pacha's Family and other characters.  The final animation feature is the production progression reel.
Keep on groovin on the Putting it all together.  Begin on the featurette on Ink &amp; Paint/Compositing.  Then watch the clean up to final film comparison.  The final feature here is the color models gallery.
Then, Music and Sound.  Watch the featurette on the creation of the music and sound effects.  Watch Sting's Music Video: My Funny Friend and me.  Try out mixing your own sound effects of a scene on the Mixing demo.
Finally, go to Publicity.  This is the final features.  Watch the two theatrical trailers and the three T.V Spots.  Then look at the gallery of posters and ad compaign.  This set is Groovy.
This movie is created directly from the digital source, so it is in perfect picture and sound.  This movie and the bonus features are funny.  So I give it five stars.  S0..................
Grooce On!