The Jungle Book is a significant film for several reasons. First, it was the last film that Walt Disney himself was involved in directly. Walt had not been happy with some of the company's recent efforts such as "Sword in the Stone" and he took a more hands-on role with Jungle Book. Unfortunately, Disney would not see the fruits of his efforts. He passed away in December 1966, about seven months before the film was released. Still, Disney's handprints are all over the film. Initially conceived as a darker, more dramatic film, and more influenced by Rudyard Kipling's original story, Disney tossed out the idea, along with the original director. The result was the last great Disney animated film before the company was rejuvenated in the 1990's with films like "Aladdin" and "Beauty and the Beast". By anyone's account, their films of the 70's and 80's were lacking the passion of earlier efforts.

Yet another significant difference in this movie was the use of major Hollywood talent to supply the voices for most of the characters. This is common practice today but was not the norm in the 1960's. And you probably could not have selected a more eclectic group of actors. At one of the spectrum you have stately British actors Sebastion Cabot as Bagheera the Panther and George Sanders (one of Hollywood's great voices) as the sinister tiger Shere Khan. At the polar opposite was Comedian/actor /bandleader Phil Harris and his southern drawl playing happy-go-lucky bear Baloo, along with Jazz bandleader and swing singer Louis Prima as the voice of orangutan King Louis. Additional voices were provided by Sterling Holloway as Kaa the snake. Holloway is better known for providing the voice of another Disney character, Winnie the Pooh. Ron Howard's brother, Clint, voiced baby elephant Junior. One other footnote, the singing voice of Shere Khan was performed by Thurl Ravenscroft who was the voice of Tony the Tiger, as well as the singer of the "Grinch" song.

The story oh Jungle Book is simple. Little boy Mowgli was found in the jungle and raised by wolves. But when the wolves find out that the evil Shere Khan is returning to the jungle, they enlist the aid of Bagheera and Baloo to escort Mowgli back to the man village. The only problem is that Mowgli doesn't want to go. He's grown up in the jungle and the animals are his friends and only family. Complicating masters is not one, but three villains. Besides Shere Khan, Kaa and King Louie all want Mowgli for their own reasons. Bagheera and Baloo have to keep him safe from the villains and convince him that the man village is the best place for him.

Jungle book contains two of the best songs in Disney history, "The Bare Necessities" and the swinging `I Wanna be Like You". These are timeless songs which were both Oscar-nominated. Not to be forgotten is the menacing and hypnotic "Trust in Me" sung by Kaa to Mowgli as he prepares to make a meal of him. It's a fantastic production and the animation is simply gorgeous. Watch the scene when Mowgli is walking by himself through the jungle, kicking at the ground. The fluidity of movement is perfect, and watch how his hair blows in the gentle breeze. 3D animation may be the rage today but there's nothing like outstanding 2D animation.

This is the latest Disney classic to get the platinum treatment and while it doesn't have as many special features as Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, it's still a solid lineup of extras. The making of documentary runs about 45 minutes and includes current and vintage interviews with many of the writers, animators, actors, and the composers who were involved in the project. This takes you through the complete process and there's great footage of Prima and his band dancing about as they perform "I Wanna Be Like you". In "Mowgli's Return to the Jungle", Bruce Reitherman, the voice of Mowgli, shares his memories of making the film and how the experiences influenced his current job as a wildlife filmmaker. Reitherman's father, Wolfgang, was the film's director.

There's an interesting short featurette on a lost character from the film. The near-sighted, short-tempered rhinoceros named Rocky is brought to the screen using original storyboards and original voice recordings by Frank Fontaine. In addition there's a couple of other featurettes, audio commentary, sill gallery, music videos, and games. The word classic is over used today but it definitely applies to The Jungle Book. Forty years later this is still a wonderful film for the whole family.

REVIEWED BY TIM JANSON