The holocaust is surely about the most difficult event or series of events to understand or depict. Very few films have succeeded. The rather cheesy 70s TV series "Holocaust", although a reasonable try at it for prime time TV, comes to mind. Here Spielberg presents in an almost completely non-sugar-coated way, with believable people and events, a view of the holocaust as it happened in and around Cracow. It needs to be said that the original book is outstanding too - without this as the source for the film, the film would probably not have worked. Harrowing, horrible and still incredible to believe. The way people speak and the things they say appears to have the authentic feel of the period. The soundtrack is outstanding - unbelievably real sounds of shooting and the clink of cartridges on pavements (shells on sidewalks) make this a very difficult and uncomfortable viewing experience. Just as it should be, of course. This deserves five stars without any doubt. If I must find anything to criticize, then I think there are three things that were unnecessary. Why black and white? The events took place in color - the world was not black and white - why not show it in its real hues? Well, we know why black and white was chosen, but I do think that black and white=old or a long time ago is a bit of a clich&eacute;. The photography is astounding anyway. Why did Goetz and some of the others have to speak their lines in a faux German accent? This seems unnecessary - surely in this film they were largely all speaking German? Still this is a small point. The most serious breakdown and something that was apparently made up for the film was Schindler's emotional farewell at the end. It was not in the book, it did not need to be in the film and should not have been. The film would not have been diminished by omitting this faint touch of treacle. What Schindler had done for "his" Jews was clear - words spelling it all out were just not necessary. But these are small criticisms of a masterpiece.