"The City on the Edge of Forever" is great drama presented during Star Trek's phenomenal run in the sixties.  The story was genuine and unique for the time and addressed the issue of time travel quite intelligently..Based on an original story by Harlan Ellison, this wonderful episode starred the beautiful Joan Collins in a sensitive and touching role as Edith Keeler..a social worker who's death has an impact upon history.

The chemistry between William Shatner and Joan Collins works well in this episode and Shatner's acting is very subdued but very effective..He conveys his emotions quite effectively in his closeups!  I can understand why this particular episode is considered one of the best in the series!  Every time I used to run across it as a rerun I would find myself stopping what I was doing to watch it!  Now I have it on DVD and still enjoy watching it!  One of my favorite scenes is the close up on Joan Collin's face when Spock was trying to explain what he was trying to buid with all the the tubes and antennas chirping in their bungalow..Her expression is priceless!  I loved Joan Collins in this role..I wish she would have done more in this vein..

The Guardian of Forever was a unique design and worked very effectively for the show..It must have been quite a feat putting together all of these props for this show..

I would say I am a true Trekkie in that I have read practically every autobiography written by the cast and all the supporting books on the show..I can say honestly that I have seen all 79 episodes at one time or another in my life but now that they are available on DVD I plan on rewatching them and adding my favorites to my collection!

Also DeForest Kelley was superb in this show!  DeForest was a brilliant actor who has made such an indelible impression as "Bones" McCoy..In this episode his frenzied state of mind is portrayed convincingly and his scene with Joan Collins is one of the best in the series in my opinion.  This show had it all..great writing..great directing..great acting!!