Black Swan, like many of Darren Aronofsky's other films, is a story that thrives on symbolism ranging from colors and shapes to shadows and terror. It is more reminiscent of his grittier works like The Wrestler or Requiem for a Dream rather than the somber and gorgeous The Fountain.

Black Swan is an entire retelling of Swan Lake as performed by the character of Nina mastered by Natalie Portman. Nina is a victim of a pressured perfection brought on by her mother, Erica (Barbara Hershey). At the same time Thomas (Vincent Cassel), Swan Lake's artistic director, and Lily (Mila Kunis) are pushing our protagonist towards a darker path to which she never recovers from. We witness Nina's transformation as it's brilliantly crafted between her real life and that of Swan Lake.

Director Darren Aronofsky has the tendency of transforming actors and actresses into something out of their norm. When watching Requiem for a Dream, Marlon Wayans is now Tyrone Love suffering as a tragic character. In The Fountain, Hugh Jackman has become Tom Creo traveling to Xibalba. If I didn't know any better, I'd say Aronofsky has something to do with the fact that I've yet to see either actors top their respective roles.

Natalie Portman continues the trend as she plays a changing Nina, two characters of her personality. She is the frail, yet cowardly Swan Queen, but she is also the jealous seductress known as the Black Swan. Portman goes through a psychological battle that results in a completely new type of victim. The audience has the privilege of savoring every moment, every tug and rip. Natalie Portman is truly what a "Best Actress" of 2010 consists of.
Mila Kunis is Lily, our symbolic Black Swan. Time and time again, Lily is an obstacle to Nina's role of the Swan Queen and the Black Swan. She is a threat to the false sense of love between Nina and Thomas, the prince of our personal Swan Lake. Lily is the corruption inside of Nina as shown by the dangerous lifestyle and her darker wardrobe.
Vincent Cassel dominates as the manipulative, yet brilliant, Thomas. His intimacy with Nina is scary as we are introduced to his previous pet project played by an impressive cameo from Winona Ryder. Whenever he is showcased in his own familiar surroundings, Thomas is engulfed in a black and white world. He is two calculating extremes that are rarely in the center or gray. Still, Thomas is a ballet mastermind as the end result that is the true Black Swan is nothing short of perfection.
Each and every character is a unique stepping-stone for Nina as she crosses the boundaries of the human psyche.

The presentation is the only portion of Black Swan that slightly suffers. The CGI used in some scenes added to the psychological terror with subtle hints. Never have paintings in a room that move on their own been used more effectively. Other times it took one away from the experience by trying to do too much on such a tight budget. We don't have to see Nina's skin change as drastically or as often as it was portrayed. The special effects were my one disappointment as I've seen Darren Aronofsky pull off some hefty visuals with smaller budgets. Less is more sometimes.

It is a mint blemish in an otherwise thrilling film. The characters, the themes, and the music are what carry us on the excursion. The scenes are crafted in such a way that I'm reminded of some of the more powerful scenes in Amadeus. When there is a pivotal scene in Black Swan, the music thunders just like a spot on ballet performance.

It is Swan Lake, a realistic version of it. We hear parts of the actual Swan Lake musical in the story and we see the symbolic defeats and triumphs. The scenery's lighting changes under a darker context over time. Stunning backgrounds provide more than enough clues of foreshadowing.

Darren Aronofsky has topped 2008's The Wrestler with a film that is raw in emotion and fright. While The Fountain still holds as my favorite film of all time, Black Swan still performs an intense and seductive story. Black Swan is the dark corruption that finally overtakes everyone at times. It is the freedom found in the end of a tragic and near perfect rendition of Swan Lake.