I was so excited to see the movie, that I posted ahead of time. Now that I've seen it, I thought it was a great telling of a true story. I give it a solid 4 stars, because the actors were excellent, the cinematography was good, the combat effects were actually better than okay. The music could have been better, but despite that it is an instant classic in my book.

The movie is fantastic because it shows the story of men who had to fight with honor and dignity against extreme odds in order to fight with bullets and power against our country's enemies. Their story has been represented before on film, and hopefully will again; it's a story worthy of being told over and over. Thumbs up to the actors, producers and all involved for doing a very good job. Was it the best of the best job possible? Maybe not, but it was entertaining and enlightening. I respect George Lucas for caring enough to put his money into this story, to bring it to the big screen like a major film, despite the reluctance of many other parties in the film industry. Could some other director/producer combination have made a technically more outstanding movie? Maybe, but they evidently don't care enough about the true story to do it. Kudos to all involved!

The events portrayed a version of history that was very engaging, and in a way that was also realistic. The heroes weren't shown to be perfect, with the flight leader having a drinking problem, for example, which seemed to cause problems, and one of the other pilots being a real hotshot. Overall, I gained a lot of insight into the difficulties that the "colored" pilots encountered but at no point did I feel like I was being "taught" a history lesson.

It seems like they didn't add a lot of extra drama to the story, which I almost wish they would have, altho the history as is has plenty of drama and heroism. The drama developed on several levels; first, the reluctance to put "colored" pilots on the front had to be overcome. Then, each mission had dramatic action, with all of the pilots and ground crew adding his sparky personality to the dramatic tone. I felt rise and fall and release of each dramatic thread.

I was already aware of the Tuskegee Airmen, and was excited to see what a George Lucas production would do with the story. Overall, I was satisfied, altho it didn't have the melodrama of a Star Wars episode, and I was looking for him to go overboard a bit, maybe just with the music. Those airmen were heroes and they really deserve to have a first class feature document the important, if not vital, contribution they made to the war effort. Now I know some of their names and I fell in love with them as patriots and gentlemen.

I saw Lucas on Jon Stewart's Daily Show, and he talked about how difficult it was to get this film distributed, because the big film distributors feared the audience would not be there for a film with a mostly-black cast. I hope their fears are wrong and this film is welcomed globally for it's production values, it's entertainment qualities, and it's documentation of a historical reality. I loved it, it's an instant classic in my book on many levels and am so happy to see this story make it to the big screen this way.

The audience showed up in droves, with the house being overflowing Friday night. The audience got engaged with the story, applauding at the end. I know a lot of us were happy to see the film and enjoyed seeing these heroes brought to life on the big screen.

Previous entry:
Feature film executive produced by George Lucas, who felt compelled to bring the inspiring legacy of the Tuskegee Airmen, the first African American pilots and crew, to the big screen. He called it the first all-black action film of modern times. We can expect to see an exciting true story told of the heroism of the people who rose above, aimed high, believed in themselves and used their brain, in service to our country at a time when their effort is credited with turning the tide of the war.

The "Red Tail Angels" were skilled pilots and fierce fights, often requested by bomber pilots, who wanted their escort to base. The Tuskegee Airmen flew more than 1500 missions between June 1943 and April 1945, many of which were as bomber escorts.

Unlike our beloved hero Luke Skywalker, who George Lucas made unforgettable, he is now bringing to our imaginations the real-life adventures of men who helped win the real historical fight against tyranny and hate. Let's get out there on January 20th and make it a blockbuster weekend!!!