With the passage of time it's easy to forget the Beatles were once cutting edge and loved to tweak the nose of authority figures everywhere and the gentle tone of "Yellow Submarine" compared to today's animated features only emphasizes that point. At the time of "Yellow Submarine" the Beatles were at the height of their success, and while they undoubtedly wanted to send a message to authoritarian figures everywhere they didn't want to do that in a ham-fisted manner. Considering the counter-cultural wave that was about to follow, "Yellow Submarine" seems almost quaint by comparison and it moves at a considerably slower pace than modern day cineastes or casual viewers may care for.

"Yellow Submarine" depicts the conflict between the Blue Meanies (representing authoritarianism, be it Fascism, Communism, or whatever) and the peaceful residents of Pepperland. The Blue Meanies employ a means of weaponry to freeze the residents of Pepperland, leaving a sole resident to seek help via the Yellow Submarine. The set up of action, in particular, unfolds particularly slowly, giving time for the character of each Beatle to slowly be explained amid scenes of rather Peter Max inspired psychedelia. The overall effect isn't exactly trippy unless you're actually tripping I suppose. Several memorable Beatles songs are included throughout the film and at points it's almost like a precursor to music videos, but rather than enhancing the film they're more of a distraction, especially "Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds."

Ultimately the Beatles arrive to save the day and the movie itself is a satire on the foolishness and limitations of authoritarianism in all its manifest forms, as well as the benefits of freedom. Some of the newer songs are a bit weak, especially "All Together Now" with its especially incongruous line about "chop the tree" which is hardly an eco-friendly lyric. Having seen it as a kid I doubtlessly enjoyed it, yet 30+ years on I could scarcely remember any details. Having seen it again I could scarcely be bothered to see it again anytime soon. I honestly couldn't recommend this except for die-hard Beatles fans, fans of animation or pyschedelia, or those looking for satirical films. "Yellow Submarine" is sadly more of a time capsule of a different time and place, when all you needed was love. It's a bit sad we've moved so far beyond that, but the message of fighting tyranny, despotism, and authoritarianism is all too appropriate today.