I originally saw this movie on TV for the first time over a year ago and I was so drawn to it. This is one of the Few B&W movies that I do own now. I just cant get over the power of this film. I feel allot of present day films dont have this kind of magic that makes it jump off the screen. The characters are real by the performances of the actors, the direction and the writing is solid. Thier are so many sources that have drawn from this movie. You just cant help but appreciate the source material. Its very rare everything just works.

This is a classic that should never have been remade because its impossible. From the short clips from the documentary it was rather transparent that most of those were just bad imitations .

  The Film has a wonderful mix of Humor, Drama and Romance even most guys can even appreciate. Its not mushy ...which is a relief.  And it all works togethor. A sense of history involved with refugees leaving Nazi Occupied France which most films about that era shy away from. Casablanca has had more tributes done to it than they have mentioned.

This is one of the first movies I've seen Humphrey Bogart in and I cant see anyone else in the part. I've enjoyed him in "The Caine Mutiny" and "The Maltese Falcon". Two of his Co stars from the Maltese Falcon both have roles in the film Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet. The chemistry works not just with these characters and their relationship with Rick. Ricks relationship with Capt. Renault I find the basis for allot of things I've seen before but this came first. And I can appreciate that.

 Even if its redone again it just will not work. The actors bring something to that performance that makes the film unique. It cannot be repeated. The overall feel of the film cannot be recaptured.  This film is a big example why classic films should not be remade.

My only complaints have been that the sound quality on the DVD is OK . Its not bad but I had to turn my TV all the way up to get that Stereo Theatre feeling. I'm a wide screen freak and the film is in Pan and Scan. I don't know if it was my player or just the movie over the sound quality. The Documentary is really a joy to watch though.