Children of Men is, in a way, a sci-fi movie. It takes place in the near future. The world is falling apart. War has become part of every day life. It is also a dystopian view of the one thing we take for granted; our future. But the thing Children Of Men does best is to take the convention of the sci-fi movie to humanize them in a way that is very original and affecting.

Fifty years from now, the world as we know it is coming to an end. Women have been unable to have children. The world's youngest person is 18 years old. The world is self-destructing. Only England seems to be standing tall and strong (if you can call it that as the country is plagued with war and terrorism).

Theo is an ordinary man who used to be an activist at one point. Soon enough, he is thrown back into his old world in order to protect a young illegal imigrant who just happens to be pregnant. As different groups want to have the girl's baby, Theo has to protect the mother, protect the child and try to decide what to do next. If the baby falls into the wrong hands, then the world will be doomed forever.

Add to this many quirky characters (played by the likes of Michael Caine and Julianne Moore) and you end up with a very entertaining, very disorienting and very disappointing view of the future. Owen is incredible here as a man who is trapped between his past and his own devils. He cares for himself and himself alone. So when he has to try and take care of a girl he doesn't know, he quickly has to decided whether or not his life is more important than the baby's.

But the real reason to see this film is for its cinematography. Lushly photographed, this film is an example of cinematographic genius. It doesn't present the future as being the world of Star Wars or Star Trek. What we see is eerily similar to what we do see outside our window today. The future is grim and real.  There are also two amazing long shots in this film that will leave you breathless and hungry for more.

Children of Men is full of surprises. No one is safe in this film. And soon enough, the viewer starts feeling the very same way. A great sci-fi film that I'll want to watch time and time again.