This is from my website...: (goes past the first tape) The Wanderers: El-Hazard is the watered down TV series of the original, El-Hazard. It all starts with Makoto, Fujisawa-sensei, Jinnai, and Nanami all having a normal day at the school festival. Fujisawa-sensei is a huge mountain climbing fanatic, Makoto is a science genius who's building a new invention at the time of the festival. Nanami is the money making genius who is selling bento box lunches to the people at the festival. And Jinnai...Jinnai is the sCaRy student council president that is EVIL. He hates Makoto! So everyone is getting ready to go home, Jinnai messed with the machine Makoto was working on, and they accidentally get sucked into magnificent world of El-Hazard!
In El-Hazard, a woman is running through the forest, trying to escape the fearsome Bugrom. A HUGE bug that looks like a robot. Fujisawa-sensei has suddenly gained super-human strength and fights it off. The woman running is Rune Venus, the princess of Roshtaria a "realm" in El-Hazard. At first Makoto and Fujisawa-sensei are thought to be spies...but later they gain the trust of the palace people. 
To find a way back home to Earth, Makoto and Fujisawa gain a guide, Alielle who will take them to the 3 shrines of the Priestesses: Water, Wind, and Fire. The Priestesses can't help them... so they go back to Roshtaria. Jinnai somehow becomes a supreme leader of Bugrom, the city of the Bugroms. With Diva, the Queen, he goes psycho and keeps on trying to become the supreme ruler of El-Hazard... With Jinnai adding to the problems, they discover Ifurita... she's the Devil (oooh) Jinnai becomes her master (oh no!) but Ifurita is ditzy and really nice and doesn't understand what's happening. Suddenly Princess Rune Venus gets kidnapped by Jinnai...and problems start brewing. The Princess escapes, and Jinnai hatches the plan to use the "God's Eye" a huge circular object of a lot of power in the sky... Ifurita is used to control the God's Eye...and too bad she goes all evil and since she already started controlling the God's Eye, she can't stop...she must destroy EL-Hazard. The only people who can stop her are Makoto, who has the mark of the king, and Rune Venus who is the descendant of the king. Since Rune Venus is still in Bugrom trying to escape, will she get back in time???