"Superman", the Max and Dave Fleischer animated version, just might be the closest thing there is to seeing the world's greatest superhero at his birth. These cartoons were the very first Superman on screen, made when the comic books were only four years old. You'll be very impressed- I know I was- with the animation art, including faithful character sketches and amazing deco-noir Manhattan settings. This DVD includes all 17 of the Fleischer/Famous episodes, made from 1941-43, complete with the nifty- and catchy- WWII military march-style theme music that, for those of a certain age, will definitely conjure up vintage wartime newsreels. Did you know there was also an alternate intro? I didn't, and it's a great bit of Super-trivia ("Faster than a bolt of lightning!"). You'll also get a kick out of the things Superman fights off: a giant Siberian dinosaur that thaws out of his iceberg ("Arctic Giant"), Egyptian mummies that come to life ("The Mummy Strikes"), and a sabotaged train full of gold bars ("Billion Dollar Limited"). But no matter what obstacles await, Superman always rescues Lois Lane, drags in the villains and returns to his mild-mannered city desk- just like the '50s TV show we all remember. The dialogue is very sparse, but we see the genesis of feisty, witty Lois whenever she speaks.

These cartoons are, wisely, presented uncut and unadorned, with no extras- though the edition I saw included a crude "Private Snafu" take. (That was Warner Bros.' wartime cartoon series, in bare-bones black and white.) The second half of the series, with the "Famous Studios" credit (the Fleischers sold the business in '42), is a bit formulaic but, thankfully, the animation quality didn't suffer and there are even glints of sassy New York humor, probably courtesy of "Betty Boop" alum Izzy Sparber.

So if your Super-memories are a bit hazy, like mine, and want to see how it all began on screen, check out this set and you, too, will not only be humming the theme music, but saying "Look- up in the sky! It's a bird! It's a plane! It's..." ah, you know the rest!