There is a premise that sounds at least promising, but the result ends up sounding like a Hallmark movie made on the cheap (and all the sappy music cues are right on target), and looking like one of those direct to dvd sci-fi flicks. This has the stink of Brannon Braga all over it--the same guy responsible for the execrable "Threshold," as well as the sharp drop in the quality of "24" in the past couple of years, and the guy who's vision of Star Trek was to drive it into the ground (who knew that the crashing of the Starship Enterprise in "Star Trek: Generations" would be such an ideal metaphor for Braga's guardianship of the franchise?). Even though the premise of "FlashForward" doesn't exactly capture the imagination, it has the potential to turn into something good, but the premise alone can't hold up the show. The writing is utterly mundane, hackneyed, and cliche-ridden--the dialogue among characters is typical of low-budget cable made for tv movies. And, of course, there is the typical calculated effort to be ever-so-slightly edgy/scandalous in the graphic depiction of a lesbian relationship. Braga is trying to remain relevant during a time when guys with real ideas for freshness, like J.J. Abrams, Tim Kring, Damon Lindeloff, and Carlton Cuse, are really providing compelling sci-fi viewing. Braga's time has passed--he can't keep up with these guys. His ideas are like something pot-smoking college students might come up with during a night in their dorm room on the mary jane. "Wouldn't it be cool, if, like, everybody passed out for a minute and saw a vision of themselves 6 months in the future." "Dude yeah, that would be insane." I know the show is based on a novel, but it's just the kind of thing Braga would be associated with. "Lost" and "Fringe" are both built on premises that are actually challenging to the viewer; they are conceptualized in a way that is quite fresh, with depth that the viewer will find unpredictable. Even though "Heroes" has hit the skids, it started out pretty great too and was at least compelling even though the concept of superheroes is not new--Kring was able to inject some life into what could have been another flaccid genre show; too bad it ended up being turned over to people not as talented as Tim Kring. I predict this show, like other projects Braga has been associated with, will die a quick death, and end up being one of those "The Complete Series" sets that you can get used on Amazon for around (...), like "Surface," and "Point Pleasant," and "Threshold."
Is the series horrible? No, but in a way, being utterly mediocre is worse because it just reaffirms how bereft of imagination some show creators and tv writers are (and how barren the creative landscape is). If someone really took a bold shot at something interesting, and it turned out bad, that would at least be more respectable than this repository of cliches and TV conventionalism. I will say this, however, the show was edgy enough to have a white male as president of the United States. I'm sure in the environment of network and cable tv, any arrangement that resembles the "traditional" social fabric is a tad odd. For that, I give them credit. The truly "edgy" thing one can do today is NOT to be edgy, because it would be totally unexpected. Remember when Madonna and Britney Spears kissed on stage during that performance--yeah, it was the least surprising thing I've ever seen. What WOULD have been truly unexpected would be for them NOT to have tried to do something scandalous, because everyone knows that they're going to. Putting on a professional show is all you need. If the show is organically conceived and intelligently written, that's where its quality lies; there's no need for "edginess."

The above comments should not be construed to suggest that I object to a non-white male president (in fact, I think it's a cause for celebration), I just find it tiring that so many shows do avoid writing the president as a white male when you know they do it just because they're specifically trying to incorporate edginess or progressivism into the show. Battlestar Galactica did it, Prison Break, and 24 both according to race and gender (all before the election of Obama). And it would be great to see that change sometimes, if only the shows didn't reek of calculated edginess.

Oh, and let me add that I agree with those who condemn the practice of releasing half-season sets so the company can squeeze more bucks out of us. I absolutely refuse to buy Eureka season 3.0, getting half a season for not much less than a full season costs. I understand that they don't plan to release the second half of "FlashForward" alone, they're just going to release the whole season. I think I read that, but I'm not absolutely sure it's true. If it is, the people who bought this set will essentially have to buy it again to get the full season. I think, however, in this case they're just trying to build more of an audience for the show when it resumes. It makes sense, but the only hard evidence I have is that the set comes with a (...) coupon for the full season when it is released.

How do you do italics on this thing? It pains me to put titles in quotation marks when they should be italicized.

Hmm, they took out my references to dollar amounts. Anybody know why? There's probably a policy somewhere I haven't read.