Every reviewer who has already gushed over David Strathairn's performance is absolutely right:  this film is worth seeing just for his acting alone.  Too much of the time actors (and viewers) seem to think that bellowing and gesturing madly constitutes an award-winning performance.  Straithairn does none of these things, but I could not keep my eyes off him in this film (and while he's no eyesore, he's not exactly George Clooney in the looks department).  A riveting performance, absolutely amazing.

Clooney's vision as director is interesting to see as well.  I like that he clearly made some deliberate choices that he had to know weren't going to endear this film to a broad, general audience (black and white, short length, far more "intellectual" content than emotional) but made them precisely because of his own unique vision.

One thing does trouble me, however:  this film is, obviously, not a documentary, even though it does include actual film footage of McCarthy and the Senate hearings.  Something about that seems manipulative to me.  "Forrest Gump" did the same thing, yet that film would clearly be classified as "entertainment" in part because it's obviously fiction.  And yet..."Good Night" is essentially fiction as well, despite its being based on real events.  If "Good Night" isn't a documentary, and it isn't "Forrest Gump," what is it?  I dislike the too-clear-cut distinctions between media that "entertains" and media that "informs" that both Murrow and Clooney seem to be pushing here.  The real point to be made is that we need to be critical of ALL representations of "the truth" that are shown to us, whether they be "Forrest Gump" with its insultingly simplistic platitudes or McCarthy with his faulty rhetoric -- or even "Good Night," which clearly has a point to make and perhaps dresses itself up too much in the guise of "truth" in order to make that point.

In other words, what's more important in relation to this film isn't that Americans prefer being entertained over being informed; it's that perhaps we no longer know the difference.  That's far more ominous, in my view.

And so, ironically, I think this film works best in the ways that it serves as entertainment, with its astounding acting and directing.  As "information," I'm less certain.  (But at least it did give me a chance to spout off in this pretentious way.  Thanks, George.)