Much has been made of the courage and heart that went into the making of "Salt of the Earth."  After considering these facts, modern viewers are left to wonder how well the movie has held up over the years.  Sad to say, it hasn't.  First of all, the production values of the film are extremely poor.  The cinematography is washed out and grainy, and the dialogue is laugh-out-loud melodramatic.  Fans will say that this is because the film was under fire from the beginning, and perhaps the cinematography, painful as it is to watch, can be forgiven.  The script cannot, however, as it is blatantly clear that the writer was more intersted in getting his message across than giving the audience a well paced story.  While this style of writing may inspire people already committed to the writer's cause, it will alienate the undecided who came expecting a decent movie.  Thus writing for melodrama hurts the cause more than it helps it.  "Salt..." suffers further when it is held next to movies like Enrice's "Spirit of the Beehive."  The latter film was also made under the spectre of censorship, but its production values are excellent, proving that a truly talented director can produce a good quality movie and get a message across despite adverse conditions.  Even if one forgives these facts, however, the film still fails modern audiences because of its datedness.  Although modern social activitsts are loathe to admit it, the American labor movement has progressed greatly over the last 50 years.  A White, college student activist who sees this film and is inspired to search the southwest looking for oppressed towns to liberate is likely to be very disappointed, as wage gaurantees, working hour caps, overtime laws, group health plans and spanish speaking lawyers who specialize in labor law have changed the scene dramatically since 1954.  In short, although "Salt..." deserves a modicum of recognition for the bravery of its very existence, the film's only real value is as a historical curiosity and a rallying call to radical activists who cannot see that the era of the film has long since passed.