I'm fond of the notion that every conspiracy theory contains a grain of truth. Indeed, the Jesus story is thoroughly misrepresented. Herein lies the ultimate irony and grain of truth. A conspiracy within and about a conspiracy, Bloodline inadvertently bumps up painfully close to the ultimate truth about the "real Jesus".

Wake up literals and fundamentalists! The story of Jesus was always a grand allegorical myth. Even Saint Paul himself never referred to Jesus as a flesh and blood person or anything more or less than a synthesis and distillation of the best of hundreds of years of pagan mythology. Granted, these stories woven together are rich with lessons and morals of great value. Nonetheless, overall orthodox fundamentalism has to be regarded as the most singularly damaging conspiracy humanity has ever known.

One of the most overt and damaging anthropocentric literal-isms is that humans are the "chosen ones", and are obligated to take dominion over the entirety of the natural world, consuming as much and as fast as possible. The perennial famous quote from the bible is illustrative: "be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth". Indeed, we've literally obeyed this directive with such a vengeance (except for the replenishing part) the planet is overpopulated by 5-6 billion and most earthlings are headed towards a massive extinction event.

It's the most unfortunate commentary that as educated as we may be, our current human condition and predicament results largely from a lack of comprehension and conception of the term "metaphor". The perennial questions (how and why we're here)will never be fully explained by science, much less charlatans or new age hucksters.

The ultimate collective conspiracy is that much of the continued exploitation and destruction of Earth is under the pretense and ruse of "the second coming". These lies are happily perpetuated by elites who know better; they see our bickering (and resulting polarity and division)over whose mythos is more comforting to our afterlife or apocalyptic fantasies as neatly convenient to their endgame.

Obviously these many falsehoods, regardless of the solace they may have originally offered, have not merely outlived their usefulness; they are now threatening our very survival. In my opinion if we stop treating ancient memes as sacred and off limits to the scrutiny of the time tested method of scientific inquiry; we may find that what we consider as self evident was only once so, and then only due to the narrow confines and the context in the times they were created.

The only real miracle is that we remain oblivious to the astonishing gift we've been given; a paradise and environment which has allowed us to evolve to the high level we have, (which is probably extremely rare in any universe) beings self-conscious of their self-consciousness.

It's insanity that we allow ourselves to be entranced, hypnotized and sidetracked by charlatans, while the truly sinful commentary continues to loop and cycle in our collective subconscious perpetuating a vast environmental conspiracy and the final assault on Gaia/Earth. This killing amounts to nothing less than matricide, eco-cide and Terra-cide. Only a massive awakening from this nightmare will prevent the final extinction event.