This movie has been almost universally acclaimed as the best Rock and Roll documentary ever, but that is damning with faint praise.  This is a great  movie, period.
It documents the Rolling Stones during their landmark '69  tour, and in particular, the documentary maker's dream (and everyone else's  nightmare) Altamont concert.  At the time, the Stones truly were "the  greatest Rock and Roll band in the world", perhaps the greatest of all  time.  Jagger's performance and charisma are at their peak, no trace of the  almost self-parody he would later embrace.  Keith Richards' playing is  rough, raunchy and powerful, while the unheralded Mick Taylor's exquisite  blues guitar leads contrast by their beauty.
The performances alone  (including Tina Turner doing "I've Been Loving You Too Long")  would be enough to make this a must have film, but Altamont is what makes  it a truly great film.  When we get to the Altamont concert, it gradually  becomes more and more terrifying, reminiscent of the slow build of  "The Shining".  At first, Jagger thinks he can control the  situation with peace and love rhetoric, "Brothers and sisters.  If we  are all one then let's show it!"  At the end, the once confident rock  star is reduced to a scared little boy pleading, "I pray that it's  alright.  I pray that it's alright," right before a man is stabbed to  death a few feet away from him.
Highlights (besides the Stones and Tina  Turner performances):  Jagger watching a tape of himself (obviously stoned)  giving glib and charming answers to reporters, then turning away from the  tape, and almost blushing, saying, "Rubbish."  Mick and Keith  grooving to a different version of Brown Sugar that has a country lead  guitar part, 2 years before the song was released.  During the Altamont  concert, a Hell's Angel on the stage staring at Jagger for a long time with  a look of intense disgust like, "Look at this little faggot!"  The disillusioned masses leaving the next morning while the rawest,  nastiest version of "Gimme Shelter" you've ever heard plays on  the soundtrack.
When you watch the Altamont part of this movie, your  shoulders and body will scrunch up as though you were at a truly scary  horror movie.  It is that visceral.  It is emotionally draining, yet  compelling, and the music is fantastic.  I have it on VHS and I will get  the DVD as soon as it comes out.  You should own this movie.