I will spare you the plot premise because you've heard it all before in other reviews and I detest people who give away all the secrets a movie has got to give cuz "Why buy the cow when you can get the milk for free?" That being said, here goes: P.J. Soles can't be lamblasted here for her performance because she appears so briefly that you barely have time to note her at all but she has learned to be creepy in the minutes she has on film. The CHILDREN are what makes this movie and saves it from becoming a total fiasco. The scenes with the 2 little girls in them are very well acted by two young actresses who do not seem to realize they are even IN a B movie and sew up many of the plot holes it tends to have. This version of the Tooth Fairy legend is right up there with the original When A Stranger Calls and When A Stranger Calls Back for being one of those films that sticks in your mind for several reasons: The plot was a good idea and they did the best they could with the money they had and it shows. The comedic antics of the burn-out band dude are hilarious yet subtle and involve mostly facial expressions and hand gestures that save a lot of the scenes. His "outer limits I'm picking up bad karma and aura" girlfriend is too funny at times as well which shows the cast knew how to poke fun at themselves. Most importantly>>> It has the unique distinction of being the "Horror Movie With The Funniest Line Ever Uttered Amidst Bloodbath" out of any I have ever viewed so look for the scene when the two local yokel brothers are running around the woods and one brother chooses to ask the other an ALL TOO OBVIOUS HERE'S YOUR SIGN QUESTION.... and yes, I AM gonna leave it at that. BUT>>> After he uttered it I: 1.)Tried hard to not roll into the floor crying I was laughing so hard. 2.)Replayed it several times to see the "cheesey special effect" and hear the line uttered again. 3.)HAD to watch it again with Director commentary to hear what Stephen J. Cannell had to say about this scene. 4.) RAN into work the next day, telling a co-worker named "Chuck" (the brother the line refers to) that he HAD to see this movie. Now... if that don't intrigue ya enough to see it, you are NOT a fan of cult classic horror movies. Rob Zombie is gonna be hosting this one on TCM if they still have his show on by the time he discovers it.