I've heard it a million times. This film is not supposed to be taken as a biography, so what? It's wonderful entertainment. We connect so with all the cast you feel their pain and joy throughout this amazing drama. On one hand we have the person we all are, Antonio Salieri. Mediocre, but surviving, wishing he had great talent. He obeys his bosses and puts up with their faults.  He also feels emotions of love for a woman but never expresses it. Then he meets Hulce's Mozart and a great jealousy takes over him, infuriating him to the point of madness. We've all been this way. 
Then there's the person we wish we could be. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Not only is he brilliant, but he's unafraid to do anything. Where Salieri obeyed and respected authority, Wolfie chastises and contradicts it. We've all wanted to do this at some point I'm sure. Wolfie is in love with life, and he embraces it in it's fullest. Having affairs with well-endowed opera stars, getting rip roarin' drunk, and attending party after party even when he can't afford it. In addition, he is delighted, amused, but to a certain degree also tortured by the beauty he creates. Truly, Mozart is a man we can see ourselves in easily.
Then we have the mediator in form of Constanze. In the beginning she starts out much like Wolfgang, happy and carefree. But as things go on, after they have a family and she's ready to settle down she becomes much more strict and money-wise. She acts to Wolfgang like his father, and it seems towards the end money becomes her ultimate goal instead of happiness. We also, can see ourselves in this position.
Several other characters strike a chord with us. Even as old Salieri proclaims that God is not to be trusted, we can hear our own doubts in that line. Overall, this is an amazing film filled with every human emotion. It can and does create a greater understanding and appreciation of the incredible Wolfgang Amadeus.
In closing, I'd like to add that Mozart had basically three parts to himself that are shown wonderfully in this picture. Wolfie the child, the one Salieri sees and hates, Amadeus the lover, the one Constanze falls for, and Mozart the composer, the one the world as fallen in love with. Hopefully Wolfie Amadeus Mozart will now be known for who he truly was, a man to genius for his time, and too immature for his place.