OK So this is one of my faverite bond films.

Whats good about it:
1.I personally like how the film feels like it was filmed in the 60's... or another goldfinger... like a gold finger part 2... or something
2. Chick gets eaten by dogs
3. James bond shoots a man in a tree.
4. He makes out with that one chick at the beginning after exchanging a paragraph worth of words.
5. Hover craft chase in venice
6. Jaws.
7. Boat chase scene with the 'classic' 007 song
8. Space fight.
9.Killer sound track
10.Hot chicks
11.Hugo Drax
12. Multicultural

Whats bad about it.

1. they land on a circus tent... so that part is pretty stupid. equally as stupid as when the car does the flip in man with the golden gun, and there's that stupid whistle in the background... the editors must have been smoking too much pot and had just finished watching cheech and chong.
2. When he makes out with that chick at the beginning, except that part was so bad its good so it actually doesn't belong on this list.
3.Stupid intro and exit songs. the exit song would have been cool had it been an instrumental
4.Jaws- yeah Jaws is cool its just like.. Jaws is also kind of  stupid. Also... which Jaws fight scene sticks out in everybody's psyche as the epitome of all Jaws fight Scene's?.... Of course the one on the train in the spy who loved me... First bond forcefully pushes a Russian Spy inside a folding... train... bed...? and then takes jaws on.. one on one... So he could have suffocated a Russian spy who apparently loved him or so says the deceiving title. So bond thinks oh i can take on this invincible bad man who can eat bullets. so he pushes the bed into the wall which contains a woman who is trained as a spy for the Russian government. so bond is thinking that he would be better off if he fights mister metal teeth by himself because a woman who is a spy would just get in the way... take that feminism. any who so he is being choked by metal teeth man and James is thinking to himself... oh god what am i going to do. i just stuffed a Russian woman between a wall and a bed and now i am being strangled by a man who is invincible with metal teeth. what could possibly be his weakness... oh i know metal teeth Pokemon are week against electricity. instead of hitting him over the head with that near by lamp... i will first break the bulb in it first thus breaking a link in the circuit. once the circuit has been broken, i will use the metal on this man's teeth here to complete the circuit. judging by the poor dental hygiene of this man has i would imagine that his gumms aren't strong enough of a ground to handle all that power... so by  placing this here broken light bulb will... if you will... leave a "shocking" after taste....that is what james bond was thinking while being choked by Jaws.
5.Jaws Girl friend- easily the worst part of the movie. They both even some how make it into space. So Jaws and Mary Hartman are making out in a space ship and don't make their appearance toward the end .. holding hands...how did those people get back to earth any who. did the secret service find the control room on earth and hire their own space people from the British space control room to come over to drax's control room. or did they just pay the people who were already manning the control boards do it, and then take them to jail after they were finished. Or did they contract the Americans to do it because the British didn't have people working in a control room. Or was the ship on auto pilot because the people on earth would have been dead had the mission gone through as planned. Also why did the women on the ship agree to do it. and what is money's value if only 9 people can use it. another thing... he would have created a future with only one race because the offspring of the pretty people of each race would have to have sex with a member of a different race because having sex with a person of your same race would mean that you were having sex with your brother and or sister. also where would you bring the women when the babies were popping out. a hospital? with nobody running it?  so the women basically signed a contract that said that they were willing to become pregnant in a apocalyptic world where there was only 10-15 in habitats, and if they got a yeast infection you would have to just deal with it cos there aren't any doctors around. You also couldn't listen to any new music because your favorite musicians would be dead and you couldn't watch t.v. and if you did want to watch t.v. you would have to wait until your collective of 10-15 people produced enough off-spring to relearn how to operate this old technology. on top of that, you wouldn't have any electricity. so first you would have to make enough babies to understand how to generate power, and then make enough babies to operate cable television. This is why Jaw's girl friend sucks.
6. The space scene-This scene is awesome but it has nothing to do with anything and its like 20 minutes long and nobody talks until the end so it's kinda like 2001: a space movie in a way... on the grounds that no one talks in it.

so as you can see there are way more awesome things in this movie than lame things... like a total of 12 cool things and 6 lame things... so it is apparently 50% more cool than it is lame... so anybody who thought this movie sucked... which it clearly didn't... apparently didn't take the time to weigh out the good and bad aspects. If you were looking for a film to make fun of... it should have been... a view to a kill sucked... but even then, it had enough cool action scenes to fill up two hours of your day...ok im done now