Ha haha...sorry about the title of my review...I guess I need to get out more.

Anyway, I don't see how this is a 5 Star movie.  I was eager to see this behind-the-scenes look at the wild overruns in the making of "Apocolypse Now", but was I disappointed.  The documentary is a high level overview, glossing over key incidents  with little introspection.

So..ok...there was a hurricane, the Phillipine govt. borrowed back its helicopters for a day and Charlie Sheen had a heart attack.  Clearly setbacks, but they don't add up to the debacle reportedly surrounding the making of "Apocolypse Now". As the footage is average, even these events do not raise this documentary above a typical "making of" film.

Narrative is added after the filming, so the it loses any "you are there" feeling.  The narrative has the typical pompous, self-important ring of people involved in the film and tends to break any tension that may be there. Francis Ford Coppola never admits to doing anything wrong or lessons learned from the experience, adding to the pomposity.

There is much that could have added needed drama ....Why was Harvey Keitel fired in the first two weeks? Also, we are told this, but not shown...imagine a documentary that showed the firing of a major star...now THAT would be five stars!  Or even the meeting where this decision was made.  However, there is only commentary on this and even that is missing key information.

Similarly, we are only told Francis Ford Coppola was surprised that Marlon Brando did not read the book, "Heart of Darkness", on which the movie is based and of Mr. Coppola's surprise at Mr. Brando's weight gain.  Watching these and other conversations between the high profile director and major star would have been great, but there is no filming of any exchange of dialogue between the two of them.  It's likely that one of them (take a guess) didn't allow these events to be filmed.  So, the Marlon Brando footage is mostly filmed from approximately 25 feet back and there are a few outtakes.

I imagine there was tremendous tension on the set, short tempers, illness, backstabbing...perhaps even marital strife between Francis Ford Coppola and his wife, who made the documentary.  I mean, is it actually possible that there was less tension in  making "Apocolypse Now" than in the reality program "The Survivor"?

Ultimately, it's an adequate "making of" documentary on the caliber of the extra disk on a two-disc "special" release of a movie, hardly a landmark documentary on a landmark film.