I started out watching the Engilsh dubs but when I got the second movei it was the japanese voices. So, I wanted all the episides and I purchased the boxed set. I LOVE the japanese voices and episodes MUCH better then the dubs. The voice of Tomoyo and Sakura was SOOOOO CUTE!!!!! In fatc I'm learning japanese. Here's what these episodes are about.

 1.Sakura and the Magic Book:

Here is when we geta look see at Sakura's life and how she first opened the Clow book. It reveals about how Sakura lives with her father and big brother. But Sakura's mother passed away when Sakura was only three years old. Sakura is a cheerful 10-year-old girl. Her best friend is Tomoyo Daidouji. Tomoyo is the daughter of the owner of a big toy company. She the richest kid in their town. Sakura after school finds the Clow book in her dad's basment. She has a little bit of magical powers because she was able to use the WINDY spell without knowing what she was doing and blew away all the rest of the Clow Cards. Keroberos the beast of the seal who guards the Clow Cards tells Sakura she must now capture these dangeros cards who each have a power or there own. Sakura was able to captur the FLY card. But this is only the beginning.

2: Sakura and her Wonderful Friend

Sakura didn't want any of her friends to know about her having magical power, she didn't want to in danger them. But Tomoyo has a hobbie of filming. She filmed Sakura flying on her stafff the night before. Keroberos was in the flim as well. Sakura had no choice but to tell Tomoyo she had magical powers. Tomoyo is very happy because she thinks its awesome. But she also wants her and Sakura to doa Trademark pose! The night when they go to capture the SHADOW card Tomoyo came and it reveals that her family has 4 woman bodyguards! She had a huge van with all of Sakura's "Battle Costumes". Tomoyo says when Sakura goes to capture a Clow card she must wear the battle costumes that Tomoyo made herself. She even has matching collars for Kero. Tomoyo also films Sakura captur the SHADOW card. She turns on all the lights in the school so that Sakura can capture the card. But the next day Sakura goes to thank Tomoyo, she sees Tomoyo watching the movie she filmed last night of Sakura.

3: Sakura's Heart Racing First Date

Sakura gets to go on a date with Yukito. Tomoyo and Kero go to spy and film it. But a problem hits. The WATERY card is on the loose. Sakura has only SHADOW, FLY and WINDY. None of them are no match for the water card. Thanks to Yukito Sakura figured out what to do. She lead the water card in the freezer and froze it!

4: Sakura is doing house cleaning, but she finds a Clow Card. Without thinking she forgot to write her name on it and it's on the loose in her own house. Another comes as well. WOOD and RAIN create a rain forest in Sakura's house. Sakura though was able to capture them. This one isn't as good as other ones though.

  I still LOVE Cardcaptor Sakura though.

  My favorite people are Sakura and Tomoyo.  It is VERY cute!

  Do buy it

  And it's my FAVORITE animie.

  I like Kimba the white lion but I like this a whole lot better.