"Well, if they follow standard Imperial procedure, they'll dump their garbage before they go to light-speed."

I bought all 3 of these, simply because I wanted to watch the original versions, using my dvd player.  They are slightly better than the THX VHS set that I bought 10 years ago, but nowhere near the quality that could have been.  (hint hint, this is your buying clue, these are the best original versions that have yet been available)  I hope that this is not the last home video format that we will see of the original versions of these movies.  Let us hope that this is something jettisoned out of Lucasfilms, to give us a hint that maybe, just maybe, high quality versions will be available at a later date.  Since I don't know when that may be, I bought this dvd release.

Let's hope that rumors of HD blue-ray theatrical releases are true.  I almost forgot that next year will be the 30th anniversary of the saga.  Has it really been that long since the Spirit of 76?  I would recommend that all efforts be made to come closest to the original theater experience.  Correct aspect ratio, maximum available resolution, original sound effects with the comparable number of channels that the movie had.  (Please don't demand 5.1 sound from episode IV!!)  These movies set standards in 1977, 1980, and 1983 for movie music, sound effects, special effects, and overall visual quality, and they should be respected as released.  I was there, in the theaters, in 1977, 1980, and 1983.  I have a proper perspective to complain from.  Those of you who were not there, too bad, you don't know what you missed.  What we have available now, compared to the original experience is a disgrace.  I cannot believe that this is the same George Lucas.  No digital format is yet able to capture the resolution or natural color range of 70mm film, but we can do a lot better than an NTSC format dvd.  What really sucks is that what most of us want is probably sitting on a hard drive at Skywalker Studio.

I gave all of these movies 1 star, because the dvd format has been out for 10 years now, and we're still getting the runaround on the STAR WARS saga.