First of all, there's a great movie in widescreen on disc one. Obviously, that's two big assets. Within the film, we get a neat premise in foreign terrorists holding hostages in a skyscraper while a "fly in the ointment" from several floors up tries to thwart the terrorists' plans.  That "fly" is Det. John McClane played with gusto by Bruce Willis. Following the advice of another flyer on the plane that Willis gets off of as the film begins, Willis is in bare feet when he first realizes the building is under siege.  One can't help but say "ouch!" at several points in the film as McClane has to run down stairs, crawl through heating ducts, and over and through broken glass with no socks or shoes.
Engaging in cat-and-mouse with McClane is the German leader of the terrorists, Hans Gruber in an excellent first role for Alan Rickman. Gruber is intelligent, cold, methodical and determined to get what he came for.  He relies on many underlings to do most of the work it takes to complete the job.  Most of those, he considers intellectually inferior to himself and they are, to him, simply the means to an end.
The film itself never lets up in terms of action and suspense and one feels as though he/she has been put through the ringer when it is over. A couple of minor criticisms though: the dumbbell, inept deputy police chief played by Paul Gleason and the two FBI agents who are prepared to take out the terrorists their own way, are two elements that could have been left out without the movie suffering. To the contrary, it may have been even better.
Concerning the DVD itself, there is a lot of good stuff here, including director and cast and crew commentaries, and a few deleted lines and scenes along with numerous trailers and TV spots, but in the end the DVD suffers from lack of a good making-of documentary. One of the things that I've come to expect with most DVD's that I consider worthy to add to my collection is a good making-of doc. such as those that can be found on Taxi Driver, The Terminator, etc. Not having one on a DVD of this magnitude is a major minus.  In its place is a seven or eight minute "featurette" that is strictly low grade and should have been trashed and replaced with something better.