This is a remarkable dvd piece on Larry Bird.  I love the raw game (actual broadcasts in entirety) footage - the atlanta game when he scored 60 was amazing...the 4th quarter battle vs dominique wilkins was fantastic as well.  The Portland game was not that good - I wish they had the bird vs. pacers series!  Statistically the portland game was awesome for bird but he looked worn and old - not when he was in his prime.

Bottom line though Bird was the best of all because he played unselfishly and still dominated by scoring.  He also could rebound and he was a true leader.  The video tells the story and the highlights are memorable...all of his great clutch last second shots are there, his no look passes and his relentless intensity.

I really enjoyed watching the high school footage and his college stories.  I never knew some of the things Bird went through - the fact that he took Indiana State to an undefeated season going into champ game vs. Magic was miraculous in basketball terms.

Bird was better than all - Bird played vs a great Lakers team and split championships with magic so he only won 3 rings...Jordan won 6 rings against flaky competition - barkley? karl malone? clyde drexler? aging magic? sean kemp?

Bird passed the ball and played team basketball yet he still scored a lot - shows how he knew how to play the game and not hog the ball and dominate the offense...He lead his team through his work ethic and passion and even inspired his team to body slam the fast breaking lakers in 84 - Bird was the creator of the "no lay-up" rule in the NBA playoffs.  NBA today is about flash and scoring and money and physical competion and hard fouls are non existent....The NBA is kinda soft now...Tim Duncan is really an overated superstar of the league. Shaq and Kobe never would have won championships in the 80's or 90's.  Detroit was a journyman team that won a ring last year and showed how far the talent and intensity level had fallen in the NBA.

You never fully appreciate great sportsmen and matchups until they are gone.  Appreciate the Yankee vs. Redsox games of 03 and 04 as that will be remembered similar to lakers vs. celtics of 80s.