Fast Time at Ridgemont High is one of those films that prompt me to ask the same question over and over, "where were these girls when I was in high school"? Even though I graduated only a couple of years before the characters Cameron Crowe wrote about in his novel of the same name, none of the girls I knew even came close to the girls in this story when it comes to sexual promiscuity. But perhaps that is the difference between going to high school in Southern California versus Eastern North Carolina.
The story basically follows the lives of several teenagers attending Ridgemont High somewhere in the LA Area. Sean Penn almost steals the picture with a very funny performance as a wacked out surfer named Spicoli. His straight man is his history teacher, Mr. Hand, played by veteran actor Ray Walston. Their scenes together are very funny and it is obvious they have a chemistry between them that is seldom found in movies which involve student/teacher relationships. While Penn provides the comic relief, the rest of the film deals with characters such as Brad & Stacy Hamilton (brother & sister played by Judge Reinhold and Jennfer Jason Leigh) who are struggling with just growing up and the pains that teenagers share. Brad is BMOC and very popular with his peers until his world starts to crumble as a result of breaking up with his girlfriend and losing his job at a popular burger joint. Stacy is interested mostly in boys and sex. It is her more experienced friend, Linda, (played by Phoebe Cates) that mentors her in the ways of love. This character development leads to one of the more interesting situations in the movie- one in which Stacy seduces a boy and instead of enjoying love making, she ends up just having sex instead and later learns the hard way that sex does indeed have consequences.
Over all, FTARH is a fun movie with a lot of laughs courtesy of Penn & Walston. But this is not your typical teen sex comedy. And while alls well that ends well, some of the characters will have taken a few lumps on their way to adulthood. This could well be a "must see" for teenagers that are considering becoming sexually active.
In a way, FTARH reminded me a bit of the classic, American Graffiti in that there are several actors (Anthony Edwards, Eric Stolz and Nicholas Cage to name a few) that would eventually go on to great fame after appearing in this film.