"It's been more than a year since the first season of Third Watch was released on DVD, and fans have been upset that things have been quiet about a follow-up collection. Reporting about an online chat with Warner Home Video this past September, hosted by the Home Theater Forum, we passed along that "(t)he studio...revealed that the second season of Third Watch is...held up because the 'music costs...are extraordinarily high'". Nevertheless, fans can cheer up this morning, because Warner has apparently overcome the roadblocks that held this up (or else they substituted music), and are officially announcing that Third Watch - The Complete 2nd Season will come to DVD on July 7th.

The 6-disc set running 989 minutes will include 22 episodes: "The Lost," "Faith," "Four Days," "Jimmy's Mountain," "Kim's Hope Chest," "The Tys That Bind," "After Hours," "Know Thyself," "Run of the Mill," "History," "A Hero's Rest," "True Love," "Duty," "A Rock and a Hard Place," "Requiem for a Bantamweight," "Unfinished Business," "The Self-Importance of Being Carlos," "Honor," "Walking Wounded," "Man Enough," "Exposing Faith" and "...And Zeus Wept".

Video will be presented in full frame, and audio in English Stereo, with a Japanese Stereo option. Subtitles will be in English, Spanish, French and Japanese. Extras, if any, have not been revealed yet. Cost is listed as $59.98 SRP. Below we've got the studio description of the release, followed by the package art:

  Sometimes it seems as if the world is crashing in on itself. It's the job of the first responders to hold it together. Police, firefighters, paramedics: The men and women of the 3-11 PM shift called third watch are ready to serve in situations ranging from small (attending to a frequent 9-1-1 dialer) to playful (a football match between fire departments) to harrowingly large and complex (tracking an elusive sniper who targets cops). The original team of heroes returns and an FDNY newcomer joins them in a 22-episode Season Two that combines the rigors of duty with compelling vignettes of life away from work. What kind of person defies a gun-wielding madman or rushes into a burning building? This kind - the people of Third Watch"

FINALLY !!!!!!!!!!!!!!  Come on amazon !! list it so we can buy it !! ;o)