Robert Montgomery and beautiful and talented Carole Lombard star in the only comedy Alfred Hitchcock ever made.

Mr. (David) and Mrs. (Ann) Smith are a well off couple who find that, through some mishap they are not legally married. When David is given this information, does he tell his wife? No way. Instead he chooses to toy with her first. Later, Ann and David talk on the telephone, she asks about his day, he does not mention their invalid marriage but he does tell her that they are going to what used to be their favorite restaurant. As David is talking, he writes "Mrs.", crosses it off and replaces it with "Mistress" then smiles. Unbeknownst to David, Ann and her mother have received the same information that he has. Ann's mother worries makes her daughter promise that, now, as an unmarried woman she won't ---?!. 'Of course not' Ann says.  Ann waits for her husband David to tell her what she already knows and is furious when he says nothing. This unshared information starts a wonderful, sexy cat and mouse game between Lombard and Montgomery. The getting ready for bed scene is just hilarious. Gene Raymond as Jeff Custer, David's best friend and law partner is full of southern charm and is wonderfully sly as he double crosses David at every turn. Jack Carson as the hard drinking womanizing, club friend Chuck, who helps to land David in hotter water than he is already in, is perfect for this role. One of my favorite scenes are the hilarious restaurant scene where David Montgomery and Chuck are on dates with two of Chuck's lady friends. By coincidence, Ann is dining at the same restaurant. Watch David's face as he pretends that he is with the beautiful woman sitting opposite his real date, and as he desperately tries to make his nose bleed. When arrangements are made for Ann and David's friend Jeff to spend some time together, David follows them to make trouble and get his wife back. It's our loss that they don't make sophisticated screwball comedies like this any more.