Once again I find myself at odds with common sentiment, as I review this release HAVING ACTUALLY SEEN IT.  (Why can't we prevail upon Amazon to give us a NON-star rated "Pre-view" feature, for those who HAVE to opine about products they haven't even seen yet?)

Although many of these re-hashed movies aren't much good, a few are VERY good!  "For Crimin' Out Loud" has a new introduction before the old haunted-house material, and I thought the beginning was quite funny.  It's not a better MOVIE than the original "Who Done It?", but the new stuff set me up better for the laughs; I found this a FUNNIER (not better) movie than the original.  "Scheming Schemers" is an amazing edit-job using great bits of three movies along with some new material.  It moves along quickly, has a new VERY funny ring-in-the-sink bit with Moe and Larry, and also includes the trapped-in-the-plumbing bit reprised by Shemp  from "Vagabond Loafers" cleverly removed from that film and placed in this one for the ending.  Actually, I think this "Scheming Schemers" is more entertaining than the "Vagabond Loafers" (which, of course, is itself the amusing but inferior Shemp-remake of the vintage, classic and perfect "A Plumbing We Will Go").

The Stooges are obviously still up to great comedy, and most of the new material is pretty-good to laugh-out-loud good.  Too bad Columbia wasn't so damn cheap and didn't let them make FEWER movies with completely-original material, instead of A LOT OF movies using pre-filmed stuff.

Considering Joe Besser, I find him highly entertaining, and he made me laugh many times.  And don't believe the long-time traditional nonsense that he wouldn't let Moe hit him.  If you actually WATCH these movies, you'll see that it is NOT true:  In "Sappy Bull Fighters" AND in "Oils Well...", Moe actually POKES HIM IN THE EYEBALLS!  MULTIPLE  TIMES!  (To those of you who believe lies simply because they are repeated: I hope you don't vote.)

The Besser-Stooge films need to be re-viewed and re-evaluated the same way as the Fox-Studio Laurel & Hardy movies. The films do seem to be aimed at a younger audience than before.  Jules White is now requiring the Stooges to constantly explain the obvious in their dialogue, and the acting is often rather high-schoolishly "representative".  Moe seems out of character at times by accidentally banging into Larry, when it should be Joe or Larry banging into Moe, and of course he does not pound on Joe like did Curly or Shemp (which is something of a relief, actually).  These are not vintage Stooges films; but, they're still quite enjoyable, and they still make me laugh.

I certainly liked "Rusty Romeos" much, MUCH more than the original "Corney Casanovas".  (And it is amusing to see Connie Cezan suddenly gain about 10 pounds.)  There's a lot of fun and camaraderie in the beginning of this remake, and it has a more satisfying ending than the original.  In "Corney", the movie had the feel of being a much longer story that suddenly cuts off at the worst possible moment for the characters, and no resolution in sight.  Almost as if they ran out of film.  In "Rusty", the altered finale helps you regain sympathy for Moe and Larry while losing all sympathy for the golddigger, at which point Joe pops up to make a running gag out of an earlier joke for a well-structured ending, while meting out some well-deserved justice.  Much better.

I still wish that Sony would correct the lighting on the very opening credit of all the later Shemp movies; it looks like crap because you can see every scratch, scrape and stain in the cheap dirty-looking background behind the photos of the Stooges.  And it DOES NOT HAVE TO LOOK THIS WAY!  Check out "Wham-Bam-Slam" which by some miraculous mistake IS properly "timed" and the photos look great with nothing but black in the background.  It's just a matter of getting the contrast right when making a print from the negative.  This was a major, MAJOR problem with the 3-D movies in Volume 7, which is a volume I wish Sony would correct and re-release (with better 3-D).

But all grousing aside (Oh, look at the grouse!), these films are in super, super-duper great condition, none of main title music is butchered like in Volume 7, and Sony has done us a remarkable favor by offering ALL the Stooge shorts, in great condition, in chronological order.  (It actually seems something of a wonder that none of the Stooge movies have been lost or damaged, when you consider the lost or ruined films of Laurel & Hardy, Harry Langdon, early Chaplin, Keaton, and Charlie Chase.)

It has been a great pleasure to see many, many Stooge movies for the first time, and I especially appreciate getting to see the final Besser-Stooge series.  So why 4 instead of 5 stars?  Well, to be honest, these are mostly 2-star films; c'mon guys, we're fanatics.  But I give Sony 7 stars out of 5 for their world-shattering accomplishment of bringing us this series.

SO, let's thank Sony by buying all these Stooge volumes right away, for yourselves, for your friends, your enemies, and those mothers who hated them, and maybe Sony won't mind releasing some of the rest of their archived treasures.  Sony has done far and away the best job of restoration with their Keaton and Stooges series than any other company has done in any other series I've seen so far, with perhaps the IMAGE Chaplin Mutual Comedies, and the UNIVERSAL Abbott & Costello series coming the closest.