This film is about what you would expect from a rabid

anti-communist draft dodger.  Wayne avoided even phony

stateside service in WWII first by hiding behind his wife's

skirts and then by getting the government to give him a

deferment in the national interest.  He often told lies

about an old football injury, but it was only a yellow streak

that kept him out of uniform.

This movie has nothing to do with the real war in vietnam.

Its a bunch of ideas strung together from what Wayne saw on

TV and what some of his officer groopies who never left Saigon

told him about the war.

The first half of the movie has a traitorous reporter (Cliff

Robertson) learn the real story of vietnam.  He goes with Wayne

to vietnam to what is supposed to be a special forces jungle

camp on the vietnamese border.  Its fort apache, vietnam after

that.  Complete with noble slow-taking indian scouts (the

vietnamese), friendly indian tribes (the mongonards) and the

evil indians (the viet cong).

Being bad people, the viet cong kill, rape and rob everyone in

sight with Cliff Robertson seeing it all and learning to love

the war.  Then we get to the big attack on the fort.  Wayne

and company get to mow down wave-after-wave of evil vietnamese.

After a whole lot of people are dead, the reporter is convinced

of what a great struggle for freedom this is and promises to

support the war in his newspaper when he gets back to America.

The stupidity of it all is that the obvious question never gets

asked.  Why, if we are fighting on the side of good and right,

is the enemy able to get so many people to fight and die?

Wayne would probably say that they were victims of commie

brainwashing.

The truth about vietnam is South Vietnam and its army were

weak, incompentent and not popular.  Toward the early 70's,

they were more interested in making money off selling whores

and heroin to the US Army than in fighting for their own

country.

The only way for America to have won the war would have been

to expand it to a point where the Chinese would have entered

the war to save north vietnam which would have put us in the

same meat-grinder that Korea turned into.

What stupid people like Wayne never got was that you don't

send the US Army to save a country that can't and won't

defend itself.  You send them weapons, not troops.  If they

can't use the weapons and can't defend themselves, they were

never worth anything in the first place.  And if the enemy

can inspire five people to die while you can't get even one

to stand and fight, something is really wrong.

The second half of the movie is interesting. Wayne's super

commandos are sent in to raid the Viet Cong's pentagon and

bring out some general.  The Viet Cong HQ is a mansion with

silver tea services, servents, electricity and late model

staff cars.  The plan is to whore out the sister of one of

their south vietnamese soldier-followers to the general, sneak

in and knock the general out, wake the guards starting a

firefight and then flee to safety in the General's staff car.

There is a great scene afterward where Wayne, American Pimp,

lectures his south vietnamese friend to get over pimping out

his sister for the war effort.  American morality at its

finest.  All that was missing was Wayne talking about how the

woman now had new career opporunties open to her in Saigon.

Here was a guy, John Wayne, who never had any guts in his whole

life making a flag-waving film about how everyone else should

send their kids off to die in vietnam.  People talk lots about

patriotism, but being a patriot means actually doing something

and putting something at risk.  Its not about making movies

pretending to be a hero when your a fat drunk sitting around

the pool eating steaks every night.  He didn't join up in WWII,

he didn't send any of his kids to fight after.  Thats not a patriot, thats a loud-mouth idiot.  And he doesn't give a damn

about Vietnam or the people there.  You can see in the movie

that all he really cares about is fighting the red menace in

the abstract.  Wayne does his fighting across the bar and the

dinner table while less important people are supposed to go

beat the communists.

If you want a true hollywood hero, try Audie Murphy.  He was

the real deal rather than the phony image John Wayne lived

off his whole life.

But really, most of America would rather be sold the phony

John Wayne image of solider than to honor, remember or even

care about the sort of real men who defend this country.