"Intacto" is a rather clever film.  This film is also very confusing, which makes it hard to come up with a premise without giving much away.  But here goes.  "Intacto" is a film essentially luck.  In the film, games are played, think of it as "gambling", and prizes are won.  However, these are not ordinary prizes.  The prizes are people's luck.  This sounds a little off, but it's true.  The people in the film believe that after playing these games, gathering a picture of someone gives you their luck.  No, I'm not joking.
There has been a plane crash, and Tomas is the only survivor.  A man named Federico thinks this is odd, and immediately comes running to see Tomas.  Five years earlier, Federico had his luck taken completely away by The Jew, a holocaust survivor, whom is supossedly the luckiest man alive.  Having lost all of his luck, Federico convinces Tomas to go with him and play "games", or whatever the heck they call it.
I may sound like I'm making fun of the movie, but I'm really not.  This is a very beautiful film, that is beautifully shot, and brilliantly acted.  The film is just so odd.  It's a very original work, and I have to admit, this is a very good film.
The only problem is that it's about 45 minutes into the movie before we really think we know what's going on.  In fact, in the beggining the Jew and Federico are talking, but we really don't know what they're talking about, so therefore later when we realize what they were talking about, we forgot all of what they said.  
And the games are so bizarre.  My favorite is when they put blindfolds around themselves.  Then, they start at the beggining of a forest of trees.  They then take off through the forrest blindfolded, with many chances of smacking right into a tree.  One by one, the gamblers are knocked flat on their back by trees they run at full speed into.  The last one standing wins.
"Intacto" is definitly bizarre, and at times greatly confusing.  I've only seen the film once, and am anxious to see the film again, because this film cannot be solved by being seen once.  The problem with most films of this sort, is that you don't care what really happened.  However, this film makes an exception.