"Bad Boys II" starring Martin Lawrence and Will Smith is an action packed thrill ride that should never end. Will Smith and Martin Lawrence bring so much energy to this movie that your eyes will be glued to the television through the entire movie. This action film is about two extreme cops who are trying to stop a top drug lord, however in their quest things become too personal. Martin Lawrence's sister who is played by Gabrielle Union is also working on this deadly case with a different division of police; however her brother does not know that she is undercover until he has to save her life in a serious setup. These two cops do anything and everything that think they are bad enough to do, from shooting up a KKK rally, to blowing up cars, these cops take being police officer to another level literally.

 When I first heard that "Bad Boys II" was coming out I was not too excited to see it. I was kind of biased about this one because I saw the first one. I thought that this movie was going to be like every other sequel that I have seen; I thought it would be good but lame all in the same; however when someone showed me the DVD my whole opinion changed. I first want to say that this is not a movie for children, so just in case you have this movie or you are thinking about buying it make sure that you keep it from your children. Secondly I would like to say that this movie has all the things that you would expect from a good movie. It has a workable plot, great actors, and a good director. However this is one of the longest movies I have ever seen. It is not as bad as the movie Titanic, however it is pushing it. I remember watching this movie one weekend and it made the time go by so slow because the movie was so long.

 When I was watching this movie I actually started to imagine that I was one of the characters in the movie. At one point I thought I was Martin Lawrence when he was going through his anger management. That was really funny, I could never imagine going through anger management. Something like that just doesn't seem real to me, but it is. I also wanted to be Gabrielle Union because she got be with Will Smith. Ladies, I honestly think Will Smith was hotter in this movie. He was hot in his recent movie "I Robot", but in "Bad Boys II" he was just radiant. I also like this movie because I kind of like the fact that the good guys always win and the bad guys always lose. It shows me that there are some writers and directors who still believe that there are some good cops in the world and to show people this they display them in movies. To me that is excellent. This is a much see picture, if you have not seen "Bad Boys II" you are really missing out on a treat. I recommend picking a night to stay in to watch this movie.