Having been an avid fan of the late Bill Hicks, I was certainly in the conspiracy-theory camp of thinking concerning the JFK assassination, and have read a number of volumes on this event. However, the CG recreation of Mr Myers certainly gave me pause for thought. His analysis and recreation of the vehcles, people and timeline of the event were top class and not once relied on heresay or fudged data.

After seeing the relative positions of Kennedy and Connelly in the limo (why have pro-conspiracy theorists NEVER depicted this? In fact they seem only too willing to suggest the falsehood that they were sitting one behind the other), along with the reactions of both JFK and Connelly to the shots, make it fairly obvious that there WAS a shot from the Book Depository and that it struck both JFK and the senator at the same time. And the trajectory of that non-fatal bullet convincingly shows the 'sniper's nest' to be the source of at least one shot.

The fatal shot obviously came from behind. Anyone who thinks otherwise obviously knows nothing about physics - let alone ballistics. JFK's chin was pressed to his chest just prior to the shot... it couldn't go any further forward and could only rebound... that isn't hearsay - it's there in the footage.

But i guess the best test for those still obsessed with conspiracy is this: go and build an accurate 3D computer model of Dealey Plaza, the vehicles and individuals invloved, input all the FACTS known and see whether you get a trajectory to the grassy knoll....

As for me i still don't know whether Oswald was the only one invloved in the assassination or if there was a wider conspiracy (in fact i believe the programme didn't preclude the possibility of conspiracy) but a shot was definitely fired from the 6th floor of the depository, and the shot was well within Oswald's capabilities... in fact as a former 7.62 shooter myself, I'd say that an 80yd shot at a man-sized object moving in line with the shooter is well within the capabilities of any reasonably competant big bore target shooter... at the age of 16 i certainly regularly used to hit head-sized targets at 300 and 500 yds... with iron sights.