Having recently become fascinated with Alan Rickman as a performer, I bought this DVD because the plot sounded interesting.  Perhaps on paper, this story is more captivating.  The visual presentation left a lot to be desired.  The director did not seem to make full use of the camera's abilities.  It felt clumsy and seemed more like one was watching a play rather than a film.  
The best performance was by Polly Walker.  She does an excellent portrayal of a wife who is confused by her husband's aloofness.  My only objection to her performance in this film was that subtle as a sledge-hammer scene where she is being pushed on a swing by the young man.  She is nearly panting in faux-ectasty, "Harder...oooooo.....faster...."  Give me a break. 
Alan Rickman gives a solid performance, as always, but his attempt at an American accent was way too distracting for me. Instead of being seduced into the illusion of the film, I was forever being jolted out everytime he'd mess up...which is a shame because it took something away from the rest of his performance.  
The character of the drifter was completely unappealing to me.  It would have been more believable if he had an ounce of charisma, charm, humor, something redeeming that would make us believe that this woman would take sympathy on him.  Instead, he comes off as a creepy stalker who alternates between sounding like Keanu Reeves and your annoying little brother.
I suppose I do see what they were attempting to do in this story.  Polly Walker's character was from a wealthy, established, old money family.  Alan Rickman's character was the crass, whiney, nouveau riche husband who was the unwelcome, barely tolerated intruder to this world (hence, the attempted American accent). This is probably fully developed on the written page, but is only touched on near the very end of the film.  The film would have done better to establish that fact in some way nearer the beginning of the story.  It would have drawn the audience closer to understanding this couple and their problems.  The way it plays out in the film, they're just plain irritating.  
All in all, it's worth a one-time rental just to see Alan's delicious nude scene and hear his beautiful speech about love near the end of the film.  That is something I would love to have as a recording.  It's the type of speech that (dispite the fake accent)only his voice can wrap around and deliver in such a beautiful way.