I admit to not knowing much about Andy Kaufman or his career, other than what we saw on "Taxi" and the notorious events he staged in his  career (the fight on Letterman's show, his intergender wrestling). I  suppose this lack of understanding probably led to my lukewarm reaction  after watching "Man On The Moon".
Andy Kaufman was an  incredibly complex individual - that much is made certain in this film. No  one - even those closest to him - knew exactly where he was coming from,  what his ultimate goals were, or what he would do next. I now know that it  makes for an incredibly difficult task in harnessing this character into a  bio-pic.
The movie itself I found to be only marginal. The story seemed  to rush along and, in the end, didn't scratch much deeper than the surface  in understanding the drive or "genius" of Kaufman. The  "behind-the-scenes" portions of the plot were weakly developed  and didn't go far in explaining Kaufman. Instead, we are treated to quick,  reproduced bursts of those infamous highlights in his career that most are  already familiar with.  
Credit should go to the producers for being able  to rein in David Letterman, Lorne Michaels, Richard Belzer, Christopher  Lloyd, Judd Hirsch, Carol Kane, and Marilu Henner (among others) in cameo  roles to reprise these moments. There was criticism from many reviewers who  were bothered by the fact that all the people in their cameos were 20-30  years older in the film. Obviously, this could not be helped, but everyone  in these roles (with perhaps the notable exception of Letterman) got enough  work done to look somewhat younger. And to be honest, the age issue isn't  that much of a distraction; rather, it's neat to see them take part.
The  single, overwhelming element that raises "Man On The Moon" from a  poor movie to an average one is the performance of Jim Carrey in the lead  role. He has gotten consistently better in his roles - perhaps because he  expanded beyond low-brow comedies in recent years - and this one ranks as a  capstone right next to his similarly outstanding role in "The Truman  Show". This role, like "The Truman Show" before it (which I  would perhaps rank his slightly better than this), is also noteworthy in  being Oscar-worthy, but which resulted in his second consecutive snub from  the Academy. His portrayal of Andy Kaufman is top-notch. Carrey is so good  in this role that you can honestly forget that he is only PORTRAYING  Kaufman. Rarely can actors achieve this sort of convincing performance.  Carrey single-handedly drives all the  energy and emotion in this picture.  In the course of the two hours, he was able to evoke laughs, shock, disgust  (in his portrayal of Kaufman alter-ego Tony Clifton), and tears from this  reviewer. Again, it is rare to find a performance that can do that.
In  the end though, I was just left to scratch my head. It leaves one to be  even more perplexed by the unique entertainer that was Andy Kaufman. It  also leaves you spending a few minutes trying to figure out if you actually  liked the film. But, after it sinks in, one realizes that the real pull is  the outstanding performance from Jim Carrey, which unfortunately was  trapped in an average film. I would recommend to most to save their money  and rent the movie if only to see Carrey's performance. Those who are big  fans of Andy Kaufman and who believe understood his brand of entertainment  will probably find this to be a worthwhile purchase.