For many months, we've been allowing our tots to watch this movie (and other CGI-type "classics" like Toy Story I & II, Monsters, Inc., Shrek, etc).  Of late, we realized, with horror, that our kids' recent aggression, and usage of snide and obnoxious remarks has been due to these "modern kids classics."---comments and demands like "WHERE'S MY FOOD!!!" (courtesy of "Bugs Life"); "YOU'RE STUPID!"; "YOU IDIOT" (Toy Story); "YOU STINK"; shouting "I'm an ogre!" after belching...and the like.  Even the brilliant (for adults, that is) Monsters, Inc. and Shrek movies have the characters castigating, berating, ridiculing each other, and teaching some pretty detestable behavior in some places.  Maybe "Finding Nemo" is the least objectionable of the bunch.  This movie is the WORST, and is very scary for tots.  The antagonist---the evil Hopper---at various times threatens to kill his own brother and the entire ant colony, humiliates and gloats at various protagonists, and displays other utterly obnoxious and disturbing behavior that is otherwise a very poor influence on toddlers and small children.
In retrospect, all the CLASSIC Disney movies in our collection are safe, tame, and benign by comparison, and far less objectionable if even at all.  (e.g., Cinderella, Snow White, etc).  I wish we'd stuck to safer products for toddlers, like the afore-mentioned Disney titles, or The Wiggles, Baby Einstein, Bob the Builder, etc.  I choose politically correct but safe, over slyly entertaining and wickedly cutting-edge, any day!  Those "modern classics" are great for adults, what with their modern spin, dialogue, etc----but why give the kids a head-start on learning objectionable phrases and vocabulary that they're going to learn later from others? No one wants their kid to be the FIRST SOURCE of the poor habits and language being adopted by the other kids in the neighborhood and amongst the extended family.
The golden rule now in our house: If the adults enjoy it, and it's not tedious and boring, it's probably inappropriate for kids!