Movie Review:

Schlinder's List is one of those movies that forever change the way a movie about a sensitive topic is made. Very few issues in our world's history move people like the Holocaust. This movie tackles the issue with a humanity and humility we hadn't seen before. The life of Oscar Schindler was beautifully told in this movie and it was good to know that despite the times, there were good and courageous people to stand for good.

Schindler's List is a story about Oskar Schindler, who is a German businessman in Poland who sees an opportunity to make money from the Nazis. He starts a company to make crockware and uses bribes to win a military contract. He also hires an accountant, Stern to help run the factory. By staffing his plant with Jews who've been herded into the ghetto by Nazi troops, Schindler has a very dependable labor force. For Stern, who is also a Jew,  this job could mean survival for himself and the other Jews working for Schindler. In 1942, all of Krakow's Jews are assigned to the Plaszow Forced Labor Camp, overseen by Cmdt. Goet, a cruel man who occasionally shoots prisoners from his balcony for fun. Schindler arranges to continue using Polish Jews in his plant, but as he observes what is happening to his employees, he begins feel bad about what is happening. He realizes that his factory is the only thing preventing his staff from being killed in the death camps. He begins to demand more workers in effort to keep more Jews alive and bribes Nazi leaders to keep Jews in his employ and out of the camps. By the time Germany falls to the allies, Schindler has lost his entire fortune, but saved over a thousand people from death at a concentration camp.

There is no doubt that the Holocaust forever changed Jews forever. Although since the days of Abraham Jews have been persecuted, never the scope of the Holocaust. The Holocaust isn't some ancient event. People are still healing from this atrocity and the survivors and their children have to record this story for the ages. I think Schindler's list makes the record.  Over and over the Jewish people have been discriminated on simply because of their faith. And yet, through all of these horrors, so many have the strength to retain the religion for which they were prosecuted. What a story of courage, faith, and conviction!