Until just recently I had never seen or read any production of Hamlet in any form. In high school I had read other plays such as Romeo and Juliet and Macbeth, but never got around to what many consider to be William Shakespeare's signature work. I'm glad I waited though, and I'm glad my first exposure was Kenneth Branagh's lavishly complete and definitive four-hour version. I've seen a couple of other versions of Hamlet since, but after having seen Branagh's first, it's hard for me to go back.

The fact that this version includes the full text means there's enough time to properly flesh out the story and thoroughly explore important characters and their motivations, things critical to the full appreciation of the story and sorely missed when absent. The acting is exceptional and the highlight of the film, with each performance given it's due time. Kenneth Branagh, seen here in a signature role, has full freedom to show his breadth and focus as an actor, as well as his talent as an accomplished director. He balances his own ego and grand persona by channeling it through the character of Hamlet, whose own madness and ego are two dominant driving forces in his actions. Here the effect of Branagh's ego is a calculated action that serves to reinforce the motivations of the character, not to overburden or dilute it; a choice well made.

 It's truly wonderful to see an actor stretch this much, and to watch someone with the capability of doing so. And while the production clearly knows who the star is and Branagh's performance is duly highlighted, it's the supporting cast which deserves the credit for reinforcing his own interpretation of the source material and what gives the film its overall strength. Just as Branagh is rightly given center stage to ply his craft, the acting and actors are the dominant focus of this production. With supporting players including Derek Jacobi, Richard Briers, Julie Christie and small, but good cameos by Billy Crystal, Jack Lemmon and Sir Richard Attenborough, the film succeeds not only as a brilliant character portrait, but as an efficient and engaging ensemble piece as well.

In its first appearance on DVD, the film transfer on this disc looks great. I'm happy to say that I was soundly impressed with this standard-def disc in an age of "fancier" HD releases. Picture clarity, color balance and audio are all spot on in this 2-disc version, and with an ample supply of extras, it's truly the complete version of this film.

Shakespeare knew how to entertain audiences just the way Branagh does with his interpretation of Hamlet, which delivers his own unique vision to our own age as both actor and director. Few play-to-film productions are as lavish and meaty as this one, and as a result few are as satisfying. Expertly put together and impeccable produced, I highly recommend this version without any hesitation for anyone, Shakespeare fan or not, who enjoys a good story told well.