I was torn how to rate this movie.  My three year old loves it, so in his opinion I suppose it deserves 3 or 4 stars.  However, I am writing the review and I do not care for it, so rated it as such.

What do we not like about the movie?  First of all, the story line.  It's slow, boring, and monotonous.  The same thing happens over and over.  The protagonist, Aladar and his family, join a group of dinosaurs making a life saving journey to "The Nesting Grounds".  Along the way, the leader continually makes hard hearted decisions, Aladar tells him he doesn't think that's a good idea and Kron gets mad, threatens him, and/or fights with him.  Over and over.  Meanwhile the script is unamusing and forced with such lines as, "You ordered a wake up call for the Dawn of Time."  And Aladar is called a "Jerkasaurus" by the love interest.  Thereby creating the romantic angst.

The scene of the Lemur courtship is utterly corny, embarrassingly so!  Not to mention the "talk" the young males and females are each given before hand by the wise ones of the group.  For starters; the Patriarch to the young males, "And if you mess up, don't worry they'll NEVER remember."  Matriarch to the young females, "This is a day you'll ALWAYS remember, so enjoy it."  Come on, this is DISNEY?  What happened to the famous Disney script writers?  This script feels like it was written as a group project in a junior college writing class.

And, not to mention that it is a very violent film.  My three year old loved it, but he is too young to really understand the violence.  A child a few years older could really become frightened.

Now, what are the good points of this movie?  The computer animation is wonderful.  The dinosaurs are incredibly real.  The use of real footage combined with computerized images is breathtaking.  The opening sequence is mesmerizing and the musical score that accompanies it absolutely soars.

I feel as if the art came first and the story came second.  There are so many things they could have done with a dinosaur story, this one just simply missed the mark.  With a little more thought and attention I'm sure Disney could really have come out with a wonderful video.  Instead, I now realize why I had never heard of this movie before stumbling across a preview for it on another video.