My 3-star rating is purley based on the quality of Criterion's blu ray release.  One might argue the 3-stars is a bit harsh.

Here's a part of Tom Becker's review (DVD Verdict; July 2010) which does a good job of describing the problem.

"I'd read some reviews about Criterion's work on the image here, and they were all overwhelmingly positive. Overall, I think it's a very strong image, but I noted a few problems, mainly with whites, unfortunate, since the nuns' white habits are featured prominently throughout the film. In some scenes--mainly the ones inside the Himalayan convent, there's an odd, subtle shimmy around them with a purplish-green hue. There's also some color pulsation on the white walls, and shadows occasionally cast green, most noticeably in a scene near the end where, for a couple of seconds, Sister Clodagh's shadowed face takes on an unnatural color.

At most, these moments are a little distracting; had I not been watching this Blu ray for purposes of review, I would have barely noticed. These problems might also be inherent in the film, as they turn up in the clips used in the supplemental material."

Here's a technical explaination for the problem from Criterion's Jon Mulvaney:

"What you're seeing is something we called "chroma breathing".  It typically happens when a layer of one of the 3 strips of Technicolor shrinks or fades and creates a sort of swirling effect within the colors.  It's a difficult problem to correct, but we can usually improve it as opposed to getting rid of it completely.

BLACK NARCISSUS definitely has this issue, and the color fluctuation in our release has been made significantly less severe.  The only sure fire way of fixing it is to scan all 3 strips, recombine them, and then readjust them so that the shrinkage makes each strip appear the same once again.  This is typically done when a film is being restored on a film restoration level, and was beyond the scope of the restoration we were able to do.  Perhaps in the future, we will be able to improve the film material to a higher degree."