I really agree with the positive reviews. How can one make moral vacuity interesting? This film succeeds. The lead character is not a tough guy with a conscience like Marlon Brando in 'On The Waterfront.' Rather, he pursues his amoral path with an almost innocent gusto.
  Gambling. Stealing. Lying. Fornicating. Cursing. Arrogance. These are all treated as the most normal qualities in the world. The main character and his girlfriend even wonder why he sometimes has twinges of conscience. After all, aren't the guys in the film just grabbing for the brass ring, the American dream. Life's supposed to be fun, isn't it?  There always have to be winners and losers, don't there?  So why not be a winner? It's about money, initiative, smarts, knowing how to close a deal. It is the utter normalcy of lifestyles devoid of virtue that, to me, make this a classic of American film making. To me, it's the essence of American materialistic existence...i.e., "go for the gold." The guys in the firm are on a path to jail and, ultimately, to hell, but they don't have a clue.
  Even the main character is fixed on the memory that his father unaccountably slapped his face when he was ten and fell off his bike and broke his leg. His deep, endless self pity gives him the sense that he is at bottom a good human being. What do I mean? His feelings were deeply hurt when his father slapped him, so he feels he deserves sympathy from others. He sees himself as a sympathetic figure, not someone who deserves to be judged by the F.B.I., God, or anyone else.
  Finally, the protagonist is granted full immunity by the F.B.I. for agreeing to answer all their questions about the misdeeds of his shady brokerage firm. Like a lot of people he sees he "did wrong" after he was caught, but it is not clear as the film ends if he has experienced true remorse and learned his lesson.
  As the credits roll at the end, we hear his voice saying, "I need to find a job." Thus, he's still thinking about money.  Hopefully, he'll be more "legit," but ethics, God, and righteous living remain categories far from his grasp. In short, he's normal, all too normal.
  I think this film should be required viewing in every high school and college in America.