KILL SWITCH

Written by Steven Seagal
Directed by Jeff King
Soundtrack composed by John Sereda
Rated: R

Starring:
Steven Seagal
Chris Thomas King
Holly Dignard
Karyn Michelle Baltzer

Distributed by First Look Studios

In childhood, Jacob King (Steven Seagal) witnesses the murder of his twin brother, Daniel. Traumatized by the event, it never stops haunting him.  As a result, he devotes his life to tracking down serial killers.  Renowned for having solved more cases than anyone else has in U.S. history, he becomes one of the most recognized and respected investigators in his field.

In Memphis, he and his police partner, Storm Anderson (Chris Thomas King), are on the trail of two vicious killers.  One is a psychopathic sex offender named Billy who brutalizes and tortures victims for the thrill of being chased by authorities.  The other is Vasquez, a deranged Zodiac killer who believes he can channel spirits and who leaves astrological symbols at the crime scenes.

Jacob battles both the killers and his inner demons in this film, and the case is compounded by the intrusion of a green FBI agent who is assigned to oversee it.

The Memphis setting is used to advantage, and John Sereda's bluesy soundtrack is perfectly suited to the mood. Suspense mounts as Jacob and Storm hunt the killers through the dirty South big city underworld of street crime and prostitution while the body count rises.

Issac Hayes plays the coroner, and even in this small role, adds much to the film.

Fans of Steven Seagal expect great fight scenes and they will not be disappointed in Kill Switch. The fights are lengthy and brutal. There are street fights, shootouts and a car explosion. Seagal is back in shape and handles himself well.

Kill Switch is listed as an action film but it is psychological horror at its best -- dark, suspenseful, with gothic overtones and often brutal violence. Seagal's writing skills are clearly apparent in this composition.

Production values are high; the movie has great clarity and the filming is somewhat stylistic with fast cutaways, fight scenes shot from different angles and certain dramatic moments highlighted in blue to add atmosphere. Kill Switch could have worked well on the big screen.

The cast overall turned in valid performances with those of Seven Seagal and Chris Thomas King nothing short of superb. They worked well together. In one of the film's lighter moments, Chris Thomas King steals the scene and viewers get a glimpse of his versatile and remarkable talent.

This is somewhat of a departure from Seagal's previous movies, focusing more on plot and acting. Viewers see a different side of this martial artist, more humane and caring, but still capable of swift and deadly justice. Kill Switch is one of Seagal's best films to date, and firmly establishes Chris Thomas King as an important dramatic actor.