I saw "The Forsaken" in theaters last May, and I loved it, I thought it was a great film. "The Forsaken" is a story about Sean (Kerr Smith) who is going cross-country to deliver a car to a guy in Florida, and on his way he picks up a lone hitchhiker, Nick (Brendan Fehr). The two pick up a strange girl who has just been bitten by a vampire, and while trying to help her, Sean gets bitten by the lady they picked up. And so the threesome are out to stop the head vampire so that they can prevent becoming vampires. The plot is semi-original, the acting was believable, the direction was pretty good, and the film overall was great, but the dvd was disapointing. When I saw the packaging and the special features that were on the dvd, it made me want to get "The Forsaken" even more, plus the price was right, so I bought it. I finally watched it today, and the features were good but not what I expected. The 3 deleted scenes were good, one is where Nick tells Sean about his childhood, I felt that one should have been included in the film, because it adds charecter-development. Another deleted scene has Nick and Sean leaving a diner and Sean asks Nick if crosses, garlic, ect. work on vampires, and the final one has a confrontation between the head vampire and Izabella Miko's character. All 3 deleted scenes equal roughly 4 minutes. And there are trailers for "The Forsaken", "Hollow man", "Vampires", "Dracula",
and "Ghosts of Mars". The real let-down was the two making-of features, one is a profile of Brendan Fehr which is about 2 minutes, and the other is about the Mercedes used in the film, and who they filmed one of the vampires death scenes and is roughly 2 and a-half minutes. Usually featurettes are atleast 5 minutes, both of these combined aren't even 5 minutes long. 
Overall, "The Forsaken" is worth buying alone just to see a great vampire flick, but if you're looking for special features, they are there, but are relatively short and disapointing. "The Forsaken" is for vampire and horror film fans, but those who aren't into those types of movies may want to stick with a rental.