I was(and still am) a devoted fan of Raimi's trilogy. I grew up reading the comics and watching the cartoons. So when I heard they were doing a reboot of my favorite superhero, I really wasn't too keen on the idea, especially so soon. It took me a few weeks and a few pushy friends to get me to watch it.

Let's just say I've officially put it on my top 10 list of favorite movies, and I made every effort to enjoy it on the big screen as many times as possible. I'm not going to go into an entire description of the plot and events, as its been done plenty enough in other reviews.

What really did it for me was Andrew Garfield as Spider-man. Yes I love Tobey's Spidey, but for me, Garfield really nailed it. He's the nerdy, socially awkward, wise cracking teenager dealing with unresolved issues, first loves and trying to figure out who he is as both Peter and Spider-man. Andrew portrays&#65279; it perfectly. You really believe he's a 17 year old high school kid. Tobey was great, but he was never that kid that Spiderman started out as. The corny cracks Spidey delivers and Peter's awkward moments only make it more enjoyable and add a nice touch of comic relief to a much darker story underneath.

This movie was completely different from Raimi's trilogy. Yes we revisit some of the same plots, obviously considering it is a movie about the same character. It is a much slower paced movie than the other 3, which I had no problem with because it only added to the character/relationship development and I feel it has set up a lot for the next few movies. As said before, this is done in a much darker, more emotional take on Peter's story. We're being exposed to another side of the Spider-Man universe here. His parents have always been a mystery, and I love exploring that. I am also extremely pleased with Gwen Stacy being the love interest. She played a huge role in Peter's life in the comics and so far the movie has developed it just right. I have high hopes for where this aspect of the story is going (if you've read the comics or know of Gwen's story I'm sure you do as well). Emma Stone makes a perfect Gwen. I'll go ahead and say that I was overly pleased with this entire cast.

Next, the action scenes. The suit, the movements, the original web-shooters, the web-swinging. Superb. Garfield's body and movements are so spider-like its uncanny. I like the fact that Garfield performed a lot of the stunts himself. I thought the suit was a fresh look for Spider-Man. The effects - more animated looking and I loved it. Gave the movie a very comic book feel. The action scenes were intense and thoroughly entertaining.

James Horner never fails with his music. I've already purchased the soundtrack on iTunes. Also, Stan Lee's cameo was easily the best I've ever seen!

My comics have come to life! This movie is 5 stars all around!