Futurama was under-appreciated in its time, and I'm glad that it's experiencing a rebirth of sorts.  I didn't watch it when it was on the air - it was at the same time too much like The Simpsons, and yet not enough like The Simpsons.  In the past four years, however, I've purchased all four seasons of Futurama on DVD, and love each and every episode.  The show was GENIUS.  The stories are hilarious, irreverent, cynical, hopeful, and even sentimental.  The characters are wonderful, and the concepts mind-blowing.  I think I enjoy it especially now, in a world where the Simpsons have fallen so low, to such a terrible show, it's nice to remember the genius of the creators, and what once was.

I was ecstatic when I heard that Futurama was coming back, in four movies, to be staggered over a few years.  The first two movies were okay.  They both started out strong, then lagged in the middle, but were able to pull it out in the end.  They seemed too long, as though it was the extra time that made the story lag - as though it would have been perfect for a 30-minute episode, but that the writers just stretched it out to fill time.  Why is that?  Is Futurama somehow better geared towards a 30-minute time slot?  Is that the perfect amount of time - neither too much, nor too little?

It's possible.  All I know is that the first two movies were a little too long, and they left too much space in the middle for the view to become confused and/or bored.  But, as I said, each movie managed to pull itself together in the end.  Because of that, I guess I can say that I liked them.  I enjoyed them, because they're a beautiful reminder of Futurama, but I didn't love them.  And there's a difference.

"Bender's Game" was a little different than the first two movies.  It was held together better, it was tighter, and more fluid.  Unfortunately, it too lagged a bit in the middle, but far less than the first two movies.  I hope that this is a sign that the Futurama writers are getting their act together again after so many years off.  You know how it is, it takes a TV show a season or so to get its bearings, to find it's sense of self.  Just think about Seinfeld, Friends, or Sex and the City, and even The Simpsons - when you re-watch the first seasons, it's a little weird.  The characters aren't full formed yet.  It's conceptual, but not yet real.  That's what I'm hoping is going on with the Futurama movies.  Hopefully these first few ones are just for the writers to get back in the game, (Bender's game?), and to flex their writing muscles to produce something even greater.  Hopefully the final movie will be as wonderful as the series was, and will ensure that more movies are made.