...and here's why! While Cage is, in my mind at least, fairly decent at romantic comedy (a genre I love), "Gone in 60 Seconds" proves that he can carry off action roles with a certain surpising panache. From the moment Cage's character flicks his collar "Fonz-style" in front of a full-length mirror and says (in his trademark low/long/quiet voice), "I'm a baaaaad man," you know you are in for some great moments.
I'm usually not a fan of action flicks. So when a friend suggested I watch this, I was expecting the usual high-octane, blow-something-up-and-drive-away-at-eighty-MPH-laughing-your-head-off fare. But "Gone in 60 Seconds" is... well... a little different. Cage plays Randall "Memphis" Raines, a car thief gone straight, who is forced to return to his life of crime when his brother, Kip runs afoul of a local gang boss. Raines' choice is simple: Return to his old life for one last job, or watch his brother get squished to death in a car crusher. No-brainer right? The catch? The job looks impossible -- steal 50 rare classic luxury cars and drive them all onto a tanker, and do it before the ship sails in 72 hours! Forced to choose between certain death for the brother he gave up the passion of his life to protect, and doing the impossible Cage makes the Hollywood-obvious choice and accepts the challenge, enlisting the help of his brother's car-thief cronies, and his old crew (which include both Angelina Jolie and Robert Duvall).
This movie, action aside, is essentially about the question, "To what lengths will you go for family?" And Cage, while expertly playing the cool, hard-bitten thief on the outside, manages to show us the warmth, and depth of dedication Memphis really holds for his brother. As such, "Gone in 60 Seconds" while being chock full of heart-pounding, demolition-derby thrills, is at the same time a very thought-provoking film. Although not recommended for the younger set (Parents, if you must let your 0-10 year-olds watch this DVD, do yourselves a favor: watch it with them, and skip track 21.) it is an extremely well-done film. To everyone disappointed with the quality of this film (and there have been many) I say, "Watch it again. You didn't look closely enough."
So, does Memphis pull it off? You'll have to buy it and see.