Let me start this review by saying the 3 Stars is not for the movie itself, or necessarily the package, because I am sure it will be great. I myself, maybe I might be overrating it, but I loved this movie. I thought it was much closer to the fun and surprise of the first movie, and not the bad dialogue and pacing issues of the second and third. Depp was great as usual, the new villain was awesome, and the movie was so much fun! It wasn't flawless, but it was really good.

Now as for this package, I would be more than happy to buy it. However, Disney really did a good job of ripping off the buyers who don't have a 3D TV.

This is not the only edition of the movie on Blu-Ray, but this is the best one to buy. The five disc set consists of The 3D Blu Ray disc of the movie, a standard Blu Ray edition, a special features disc on a REGULAR blu-ray, a DVD copy, and a Digital Copy of the film. So what's the problem? Well me myself, I do not own a 3D player, but I love special features on Blu-Ray discs and for DVD's, so I like to buy the edition where I can have all of my special features.

However, what Disney did with this release is they put the standard Blu-Ray disc with all of the special features ONLY IN THIS RELEASE! In the other Blu Ray release of this film, it only includes the movie on Blu-Ray and the Movie on DVD. No special Features Disc to be found, but it is in this version.

This is really scummy by Disney because not only do standard people who don't want a copy of it in 3D get ripped off of special features, but also us who like our features will have to dig out some more money to pay for it. This edition is about 5-10 dollars more expensive than the standard Blu Ray and not only because of the extra disc, but because of the 3D!

It really makes me annoyed because I love special features, and I thought this movie was really good! But I am going to have a tough decision to make whether to buy this edition or not. I don't know, what do you guys think? Me myself? I might not even end up buying the movie because of this. Darn shame, I was looking forward to getting it.