Let me say for starters that I am a 64 year old granny and English. So............ hmmm not the type of movie I normally watch, and to be honest I dont remember the reason why we watched it in the first place. I was expecting a story about exploitation and maybe violence and incomprehensible dialog and horrid music. What I got was a beautiful move. Very funny, moving and overall inspirational.

OK so we have the pimp giving his girls a line to get them doing what he wants. His overblown connections are mostly in his imagination and he knows this is his life and it is going nowhere. Neither him or his girls appear to have anything but a very basic education or infrastructure of support. He sees someone from the 'old days' doing well and decides to try it out for himself - except of course he has no skills and no idea how to begin. Together with his girls he invades the home, marraige and life of an old school friend and draws him in together with a member of his church. A few dozen egg boxes, a bit of bartering in the form of a sexual act for a mic, a drug bribe to noisy neighbors and they are ready to go.

This is where it gets really good. No, I mean it this is where it turns brilliant. One of his heavily pregnant girls has a fab voice and a grammy winning song emerges. I dont want this to be a spoiler so I am not going to give this away but by the end we were almost jumping up and down and laughing and not wanting it to end. It is a movie about belief in oneself, love (the kissing scene is totally beautiful), and emergence. The friend and his wife's relationship is improved, and the blond hooker truly finds the power within. The acting is wonderful from everyone involved. There is no graphic sex and there is not much violence. Yes there is exploitation but even that has a role in the outcome of this movie. I regularly use clips from this movie in my college classes. Give it a go and if you hate it I am sorry - you have to have an open mind and watch it all.
Find more products to review at: