Has there ever been actor who had a better year than Sir Sidney did in 1967?  It's hard to believe that he wasn't even nominated for an Oscar that year.  The man starred in three classic films - "In the Heat of the Night", "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner" and of course this enjoyable, little gem - "To Sir With Love" all in 67.

"To Sir With Love" is one of those films that is almost impossible not to like.  You may argue if it deserves the label of a true classic, but there's no denying how sweet and entertaining this fine film is.  Based on the true story by E.R. Braithwaite (I highly recommend the book as well), Sidney Poitier absolutely shines in the role of Mark Thackeray (a.k.a. 'Sir'), a young man who after searching unsuccessfully for work as an engineer opts to take a job as a teacher at a rough, East End London high school.  The rookie teacher immediately finds himself in a hornet's nest, as his poor, obnoxious students try their very best to break the man.  However, Sir is not a man to be broken, and eventually he is able to transform the beastly brutes and tasteless tarts into real gentlemen and ladies.  Poitier simply lights up the screen as 'Sir', a man who is able to teach these troubled, frustrated, angst-ridden youths what it means to be a dignified, respectful member of the human race.

I love this movie.  Yes, it's a bit dated, and those churlish of critics might wish to scoff at it being too schmaltzy and saccharine for their tastes.  However, even the most callous of critics agree that as overly sweet as this film is, it's still thoroughly enjoyable.  On top of the great work of Sir Sidney, you've got the adorable Judy Geeson turning in a fine performance as Pamela Dare, the class beauty who can't help but fall head-over-heals for the sophisticated 'Sir'.  Lulu may not be the greatest of actresses, but she sure can sing and who among us doesn't love that unforgettable title song.  "Why is it Sir, that children grow up to be people one day..."

Just a side note, in the actual book by Braithwhite, Sir and Gillian Blanchard (played by the stunningly beautiful, Sharon Tate look-alike Suzy Kendall) fall in love and end up getting married.  However, we all know that Sidney and Hollywood were already pushing the envelope that year with "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner".  So in this film, the two remain close friends, but there is unfortunately no romance.  Alas, another sign of those turbulent times of the 60's...

This is a film that your whole family can watch and enjoy together.  It's a shame they don't make 'sweet' movies like this anymore.  Every once in a while, we disenchanted folk need upbeat, cheerful films like this to keep us sane and bring us a little good cheer.  This one I can guaranty will put a smile on your face.  And that is worthy of five stars alone!