A lot of people misunderstand this film because the title character is a mess, and they see it as a movie about Christian hypocrisy.  But I think there's a deeper point to it.  It is about a very flawed preacher, a man who cheats on his wife, who is violent, who blows it in a big way and then tries to reform himself.  But as soon as temptation comes, he's right back to his old ways again.  
Then very subtly, a pattern begins to emerge.  Through various circumstances, the man begins to recognize the consequences of his actions, and he begins to have a HEART change that accomplishes in him that reformation he was looking for.  He sees a woman he was trying to seduce in the context of her family -- a family that looks very much like his own -- and his response tells us that his womanizing days are over.  The first time he encounters an adversary, he beats the man into submission. The second time, he shows compassion, and the results are miraculous.  Gradually, the man is led to a place of true repentance, a point of willingness to accept responsibility for his actions, and then, finally, he finds himself in a place where God can REALLY use his gift of ministry.  It's subtle, just as God's work in real life is subtle, but those who know how God works will appreciate seeing this portrayal of the way he moves in the lives of men.
The movie was written, funded and produced by Robert Duvall, who as far as I know is not a Christian. He places his story in a Southern-style Pentecostal/Holiness church, so there are a few controversial issues, such as the ongoing ministry of apostles.  But it's not trying to sell that particular theology so much as portray it in the context of the story.  The movie stars people like June Carter Cash, and many of the extras were real preachers and worshippers in churches across the South.  
My favorite scene is one where the man is pacing his bedroom in the middle of the night yelling at God because things aren't going the way he'd like.  There's a powerful intimacy in that moment, the guy isn't just folding his hands and saying an "If it be thy will" prayer that he doesn't really feel.  He's laying his heart out before God and confessing his anger. That is REAL prayer, the kind that changes lives, because when we stop hiding our hearts and open up to him, that's when he can really begin to work in us.  
As a Christian and a movie fan, I rate this movie five out of five.  Yes, there are some flaws, but the quality of the writing, the acting, and production are awesome for an independent film, and if the message is a little too subtle for some, well, God's message never does pound people over the head.