This is IMHO the best sounding Ring since Solti.  Barenboim's conducting is wonderfully engaging throughout and the cast, especially Tomlinson as Wotan, equals or bests any other.

One big warning:  the Wagner haters who seem to be in charge of all things Wagner, including Bayreuth, other than the actual poems and music, have here taken one small step further in their campaign to de-Wagnerize Wagner.  The English subtitles do not always honestly portray Wagner's poem as being sung by the characters.  Sometimes this is just to fit in some cheesy, unfunny double-entendre. But elsewhere they actually interfere with the plot and time-line of Wagner's drama.  So be warned.

Kupfer's production is typical Euro-silliness that for the most part doesn't get too much in the way of the music.  But the video director- one Horant H. Hohlfeld- seems to take delight in distracting us at some of the most sublime moments to cut to a close-up of some Kupfer silliness or other.  For example, in Act I of Siegfried just when Tomlinson reaches the climax of the gorgeous "Auf wolkigen Hoehn wohnen die Goetter" we cut to a close-up of Mime mouthing the word "Wotan".  Wagner makes it clear a few minutes later that Mime has identified the "Wanderer" so we really don't need all this childishly over-clever clutter.

And Kupfer often has the characters behave in a way that is the direct opposite of the way Wagner is portraying them musically.  For example, in Rheingold the gods are being portrayed musically as noble and dignified while Kupfer has them ineffectually running back and forth on the stage with no motive either in the Wagner-drama or the Kupfer-drama.  This kind of thing forces the singers to make some choices vocally and interpretively that they would not otherwise, and explains some of the oddities if you've listened to the CD set or the DVD one without watching (not a bad choice).

To show what this is bringing us to, when at the end of the tetrology (or trilogy-plus, if you like) Kupfer does some little schtick with a little boy escorting a little girl across the stage and off I found myself thinking, "That's kind of touching."  The thing is, Wagner's original was more than a little "touching".

Still, this is the DVD set to get.  The music is superior and all the other productions are even worse- including the Met's, which by at first appearing to follow Wagner's intentions and then failing to do so becomes a fraud as well as a travesty.