JCVD.  It's one of the best movies I've seen this year.  Although it had only a limited 2008 theatrical release, it is now widely available on Blu-Ray and DVD.

The movie is fictional, and yet highly auto-biographical for action star Jean-Claude Van Damme (J.C.V.D.), who was a huge Hollywood star peaking in the early 1990's.  Van Damme plays himself.  A former A-list actor now struggling to make b-movies and hard up for cash in the midst of a child custody battle.  He's tired.  He's 47 years old.  And he keeps losing the few roles he can get his hands on to Steven Seagal.  But he's still buff, and when he does land a role, he's still able to deliver the acrobatic kicks that have been his trade mark since 1988.

JCVD begins as a movie within a movie.  Van Damme kicks, punches and shoots his way out of some war-torn Asian city until part of the set collapses.  An out-of-breath Van Damme tries to explain to the complacent director that he's too old to do every scene in one take.  The director scoffs and says, "He thinks we're making Citizen Kane."

Cut to the courtroom where his child custody battle ensues.  His daughter admits she is the butt of jokes due to her has been father.  Then we see his agent won't help him get a role in a studio movie (Van Damme even offers to do it for free).  His lawyer calls him to say his check bounced and is about to drop the child custody case.

And exhausted and desperate Van Damme returns to his birthplace in Belgium where the locals are still eager to meet him and have their picture taken with him.  But Van Damme runs into trouble when he gets caught up in a post office hold-up and the authorities mistake him for the criminal.  We soon learn that there are hostages inside, including a child and a wounded man, and the authorities reach out to Van Damme (who we find out later is being held at gun point while on the phone with the cops) and ask what his demands are.

I won't spill any more of this entertaining story, except I must mention the movie's surprising centerpiece.  As we march towards the climax, a bloodied and exhausted Van Damme resigns himself to a chair amongst the other hostages, seemingly giving up hope, and then something completely extraordinary happens that no one would see coming.  He jumps up and disarms all three crooks with one mighty karate kick?  Nope.

The narrative halts as Van Damme's chair is lifted into the rafters where we can clearly see that he is on a movie set.  He looks right into the camera and begins one of the most moving monologues I can ever remember seeing.  His eyes fill with tears as he truthfully recounts how he came to Hollywood with nothing, not even knowing English, but that he believed in his dreams.  He goes on to talk about his ups and downs, how he got hooked and then beat drugs, how he believes in love and honor (what the martial arts taught him), and how the devils in tinsel town really treat people, and the real-life Hollywood producers' quote he uses will stun viewers.  He can't help but to break down and cry as he admits he is tortured when he sees those less fortunate than him who are just as talented if not more so.  He openly wonders why he was successful when so many are not.  In an unheard of position of vulnerability, and perhaps redeeming the guilt he might have for making violent movies, the action star concludes with genuine tears streaking down his face, "it's so stupid to kill people, they're so beautiful!"

Without this piece, the movie's smart, entertaining and good.  With it, a masterpiece.

-Tom Madigan