I rarely feel a film is bad enough to actually bother writing a review of it, however the only positive thought I can come up with about this film is that the lighting was good.

This is a simple murder thriller that gives away the ending within the first 15 minutes of the film.

It starts by showing that the murderer himself is a genious with the ability to find the slightest flaw in anything. His career shows this and his story of his childhood backs it up.

We are also presented with a lawyer that admits early that his near perfect prosecution record is because he trades other lawyers in the DA office his losing cases. But still, he appears bright enough to know from the start when he's working on a winner or a loser.

The problem is, the key plot point, which is the inability to find the murder weapon was so incredibly obvious, that anyone with the ability to tie their own shoelaces should have seen where the weapon was, the entire time. I won't go into details to spoil the film further, but the fact is, the director and camera man makes it so you'd have to be in the bathroom at the time to miss it. They placed far too much importance on the weapon that you were forced to follow its path the entire time.

It was obvious from the beginning of the case that Hopkin's would in fact win the case on the technicality that the murder weapon is missing and that his signed confession can be considered coerced (again, won't spoil it too much here). Also, since the entire future of the prosecture depends on him winning this case, it's obvious that he'd have to lose it and make a come-back somehow. Since this is laid out so early in film, again, the winning plot point, the defendant depending on double-jeopardy, would also have to be his downfall. It's obvious that their would have to be some sort of related loophole related to double jeopardy allowing the prosectuter to make a come back.

So, then again, within the earliest part of the film, the defendant is made aware that the "killing shot" from his gun was not in fact killing and that the victim would survive on life support made it obvious that the terms of double jeopardy would apply only so long as the charge of attempted murder remained attempted muder. This means for the prosecuter to be able to spoil Hopkins' plan, the victim would have to die, therefore changing the charge from attempted murder during the first trial to murder on the second trial.

So, the only surprise during the entire film was how she would die, not if, or even when. This means, that you are forced to watch an hour and 10 minutes following the entire story being given away to find out if she dies naturally or is helped along. And then you watch the last 10 minutes just to make sure you were right about the plot in the first place.

The part that made it sadest is that the defendant chose to take the victim (his wife) off of life support before leaving the country. This is what made me dislike the film the most, because in his intelligent, cold and calculating fashion, it was obvious anyone capable of seeing "The next step" so well would easily have never made this mistake and if he in fact did, then it wasn't film-worthy in to begin with since he really wasn't that intelligent to begin with. After all, he scientifically calculated every single step to his case, he would obviously understood that double jeopardy was inapplicable since he was charged with attempted murder and not murder.

So, I believe that before producing this film, the writer should have been forced to reorder the timeline to make the discovery of the primary plot points occur over a great time-span. The writer should also have chosen an alternative method for the "master plan" of the Hopkins' character to get busted in the end. It just didn't work the way it was written.

In my opinion, if you still chose to buy this film, I recommend that you do it to enjoy an excellent example of set lighting, the crew in charge of set lighting did a fabulous job and should be commended for their excellent efforts.