This movie not about drugs, violence, sex, or the love generation, it is about something much more basic... something that in the United States we call "The American Dream".  . That is some kind of sense of righteous destiny in a place where good always triumphs over evil and nice guys finish first. The book is about that, or rather the realizations that it's not true: the death of The American Dream.
Basically, most folks believe that it is their right -- as long as they aren't hurting anybody else... they pretty much should be allowed to do what ever the heck they want to do, even if, and maybe especially if... the things they want to do harm themselves.  
This movie is based on the book of the same name -- which it follows closely -- written by Dr. Hunter S. Thompson, whose alter ego basically is Raoul Duke.  Thompson liked this movie adaptation of his book.  The book was what Uncle Duke saw as a failed attempt at Gonzo Journalism... that had at its heart that sometimes the best truth is encased in fiction. 
Some other more recent movies have, in their own ways, also been about the same subject matter: "American Psycho", "Gladiator" and even, in a rather weird kind of way... the Lord of the Rings movies.  
The American dream either died somewhere along the way or did it simply never really existed at all, and we are somehow just mourning its passing like a bunch of drug crazed wacko's in the same way lots of other folks on a long strange religious trip mourned the death of a flat earth?  Many of us believed in The American Dream once, we were raised to believe in it.  But then something happened... something bad? Nixon took office and started defecating on the Constitution? Maybe we just woke up -- grew up?  Who the heck knows really, because I doubt we really ever understood just what we believed in at the time.  
To quote a line from the book (from the wave speech): "History is hard to know, because of all the hired bulls*, but even without being sure of "history" it seems entirely reasonable to think that every now and then the energy of a whole generation comes to a head in a long fine flash, for reasons that nobody really understands at the time-and which never explain, in retrospect, what actually happened." 
The book and movie are, in some kind of way, an examination of ourselves... in the way you sometimes hear that an unexamined life is not worth living... the problem is that, when we look deep into the inner core being of ourselves...sometimes we find nothing.  Which leads to the "paradoxically benevolent BS" -- "the desperate assumption that somebody-or at least some force-is tending that Light at the end of the tunnel".
Which is why, in my opinion, a lot of people don't like this movie.  They are uncomfortable thinking about themselves in ways where the conclusion isn't clear and succinct.  They want to believe they are holding on to life firmly by the handle. They want to live in a world where everything makes sense. Of course, they are wrong. Or maybe, in the unkindest cut of all, they are perfectly correct.  The world does make sense - and airplanes are supposed to crash into tall building and thousands must die in order to feed the egos of the small groups of evil men who run the world. These are scary places and times, ones where you don't need drugs or alcohol to be scared.  But then maybe only the truly sane are getting whacked out on acid and heroin.
There are lots of good extras on the DVD's, the best are:
- A few scenes cut out of the film
- Three excellent commentary tracks from the Director, Actors and Hunter Thompson.
- A BBC documentary
- Johnny Depp reading from selected letters by Thompson
It is a very good movie if you are open to uncomfortable thoughts.