Hellbound is a continuation of Hellraiser.  Kirstie is in a mental hospital trying to explain her crazy situation to authorities.  Kirstie remembers the bed that had Julia's body on it and she begs the authorities to destroy it.  Little does she know it's too late.  Dr. Charnard has been trying to see what will happen if you open the box, he wants to explore without having to suffer the consequences.  The doctor has the mattress in his possession.  The doctor brings Julia back by having a crazed patient who thinks he has maggots on his body cut himself.  The blood that spills from the patients body falls on the mattress and resurrects Julia who died in the first movie.  The doctor helps rebuild Julia by bringing back victim after victim for her to feed on.  Julia using her sex appeal manages to make Dr. Charnard fall in love with her.  The doctor uses one patient named Tiffany to help solve the puzzle box.  She does not speak, but she loves to solve puzzles.  When she opens the box, she looks like she will be the first victim but Pinhead knows the deal "It's not hands that call us, it's desire", and they leave the Tiffany alone.  This box will either show you pleasure or pain.  What you really get are cynobites who take great pleasure in tearing your soul apart making sure you feel nothing but pain and misery.  Kirstie thinks she will find her father in the maze of corridors of the hospital Instead she is reunited with her crazy murderous Uncle Frank and to add to her unhappiness she discovers that Julia is also alive.  Gotta love family reunions.  Julia gets her revenge on Frank for killing her in the first movie.  "Nothing personal Babe" as she kills Frank by ripping his heart out of his chest.

Dr. Charnard finds out the hard way he can't escape and is turned into a Cenobite that's linked to Levithan.  I considered him lobotomy Cenobite.  Kirstie realizes that the Cenobites were once human and when she confronts them she figures out how to turn them back to their human form.  That was really interesting that she was able to do that.  This movie also gives you history about how Pinhead was created.

This movie is so gory and gross, and I loved every single gory second!!!! You love the Cenobites even though you know they are bad, they are the type of monsters you just love.  If you enjoyed the Hellraiser, then you will enjoy Hellbound.