Finally, someone understands that the best "feature" for a DVD is the movie itself! In this age of one money-grab DVD release after another, each with a less and less relevant set of "extras" than the last, it is a pure joy to find a true Collector's Edition that puts all of its focus squarely where it should: on the film itself (and what a film!). Roman Holiday is a wonderful movie, a no-brainer purchase by default for anyone who loves Audrey Hepburn (which I believe would be anyone who's ever seen her, but I'm biased), but it is the meticulous and caring restoration of it that makes this DVD so spectacular. Instead of just slapping a visually tired print onto DVD media and throwing in completely inane extras that no one would care about (like having people "comment" incoherently and meaninglessly over the length of the film, or having scans of every doodle that anyone on the team ever casually scrawled out on a cocktail napkin, etc. ad nauseum), Paramount did the right thing, and devoted the time, money, and skill to restore this classic film back to its gorgeous original visual form.  As for the extras, what is included is more than fine with me.  They are made up of a selected handful of relevant, watchable content, intead of the usual avalanche of meaningless garbage that most DVD "extras" lists are comprised of lately.  The only thing I could have asked for is more footage from Audrey's screen test if possible; she is as mesmerizing in it as she is in the film itself.  
If I do have one beef with this DVD, it is the tiniest: I don't like the artificial coloring that was used for the packaging.  It doesn't look very good, for one thing, and, by implication, it slightly cheapens the homage that the restoration work pays to this classic Black & White masterpiece. Otherwise though, I can't rate this product highly enough.  
It would have been easy for Paramount to take the low road, as most other companies (with the exception of Criterion, seemingly) choose to, but they didn't, and as a result, we are all lucky enough to have this all-but-perfect version of Roman Holiday available.  It's one of the very rare DVDs that is obviously a labor of love, and you owe it to yourself to own it. Not only is it worth more than its reasonable price, but Paramount very much deserves the gratitude of this film's fans and our votes with our dollars.  Thank you, Paramount, for really GETTING it, and for giving us Audrey's breakthrough film at it and her most radiant!