Although other reviewers have pointed out that the film is based on Patrick O'Brian's "canon" of 20 books which constitute, in their entirety, a 7,000 page novel, complaints that 'Master and Commander' doesn't tell the story of any one of the books are misplaced, in my opinion. In fact, the film cherry-picks the highlights of certain themes that run through most of the 20 novels, and does it very well. The personality conflicts that give life and substance to the friendship of the two principal characters -Captain Jack Aubrey and physician/naturalist Stephen Maturin, are revealed, but not overdone. The depiction of the early 19th century British Navy as a square-fisted, hard-drinking band of brothers brought together by shared hardship and mortal danger is vividly displayed in a way not often found in cinematic nautical adventure stories.

Perhaps this is a narrow viewpoint, but in my opinion the visual effects of HMS Surprise seal this film as one of the greats in its genre. This is not a model in a millpond, but a genuine working square-rigged ship: the Rose, renamed Surprise for the film. The scenic shots of the ship under way are breathtaking. So often in sailing films we see sails flapping in the breeze so as to make it seem "real" in Hollywood's misguided opinion. In 'Master and Commander' every sail is drawing, luffs quivering, lines taut... in other words, it seems real because it is real. The depiction of the almost unimaginably crowded and Spartan conditions, taken as quite normal by the men of those times, are wonderfully brought to life.

The music is delightful, based as it is on a significant element of the story. Aubrey and Maturin are in fact fairly accomplished musicians on the violin and cello respectively, and that shared delight is a strong part of the glue that holds them together. Use of period music (Bach, Corelli) for violin and cello as background for well chosen scenes is inspired. The ship and the music flow together, giving both a visual and aural sense of the times.

Crowe was an excellent choice for the Aubrey character. He seems to understand that while Aubrey isn't given to excessive displays of emotion (except laughing while drunk at table, or in the midst of battle), he is not immune to them. Crowe resists the temptation to overplay Aubrey's subdued emotional reactions in order to "give them life", and instead gives us the man imagined by the novelist: naturally inclined to a jovial nature, extroverted, often kind, but quite steely when it came to his ship and his duty. Crowe captures the man splendidly.

The Maturin character is sometimes cited as miscast, but in my view the only miscasting lies in his appearance; the Maturin of the novels is frequently described as "ill-looking". Given the Hollywood obsession with good looks, it must be hard to cast for "ugly" and still get excellent acting skills, the field being so limited. And having Maturin reasonably good looking doesn't really detract from the story, except for the purist. He is otherwise true to character in the film.

It would be easy for a devoted follower (of which I am one) of Patrick O'Brian's canon to concentrate on the mixed plot inconsistencies and thus mutter through the movie. But that would be at the cost of missing out on a truly outstanding look at a colorful and exciting time, and the kinds of men who made those times history.

'Master and Commander -the Far Side of the World' will be an excellent addition to your library. I bought and received it only a month ago, but have already watched it three times. It's not that one expects anything "new" with the re-viewing. Rather, it's like Yo Yo Ma playing Bach's 'Prelude' (which is in the film)... it never gets old and is always a delight.