In the early to mid 1960s, LOST CONTINENT enjoyed a place of prominence on NYC's WNEW-TV 5. The station often ran this cheap-o monster movie on early Sunday afternoons. I can recall seeing it at least four times in those years.

What home viewers who hadn't caught this film in first run weren't aware of back then, is that the entire section where the spaceship-seeking expedition is atop a heavily jungled mountain plateau was green-tinted (because of all the chlorophyll in the air, you see). WNEW's telecast of the picture was in pristine b&w.

This IMAGE ENTERTAINMENT edition restores that green tint. They also offer as an extra a very scratched-up and break-repaired print of LOST CONTINENT's theatrical trailer, plus the usual chapter stops. There's no subtitle option.
.

As a fond childhood memory and taken from that perspective, LC still works for me, but in the cold light of adult reality, I must admit that despite a talented cast, it's a real stinker. The weakest element is a crucial one: its stop-action dinosaurs. As an occasional shutterbug, I got better results with an 8mm home movie camera than you see here. It's as if they didn't have the time or patience to take the number of individual frames necessary to imbue their clay dinos with any semblance of lifelike movement. The most laughable animated moment occurs after little Sid Melton is attacked by a triceratops. The thing faces stage left and smoothly rolls off as if it's standing on a cart.

Other special effects are equally amateur. An earthquake that tears the island asunder looks fake fake fake! It's doubtful that today's gradeschoolers wouldn't notice how bad these scenes are.

Some family-type movies, like <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00388PK1U">THE WIZARD OF OZ</a>  1939), you can revisit 40-plus years later and still find them magical. Others, like this Sam Newfield misstep, you rewatch and wonder did this picture really amuse me as a child? Just another reminder of why you're not able to go home again, I guess.
.

Parenthetical number preceding title is a 1 to 10 IMDb viewer pol rating.

(2.7) Lost Continent (1951) - Cesar Romero/Hillary Brooke/Chick Chandler/John Hoyt/Sid Melton/Hugh Beaumont/Whit Bissell