Going into this movie, I for some reason thought that Del Toro had directed it, instead I saw in the opening credits that he had only produced the movie and co-wrote the script. So while you can clearly see Del Toro's influence on this film, it falls short of what it could have been. The intro of this film was scary, brutal, and freaking awesome, but it almost could have been from another movie (or maybe something shot to convince them to green light the film). After the intro the pace, violence, and scariness took an immense drop that never really picked up, even in the end. However, I loved the atmosphere and the creatures, along with their creepy actions. What I couldn't stand was the pure idiocy of all the people in the movie.

DBAotD embraces Hollywood Horror tropes to a fault, they include having a shy child for some reason searching through a new scary house alone for no reason without any fear (even gathering tools and opening a rusted shut and bolted ash pit because she hears scary voices wanting to play), parents discounting their child without publishable scientific evidence of the events, and a refusal to leave the house until it's too late. I appreciated the fact that the movie didn't use the current Hollywood Horror cliche of the startle scare which I find very overused and annoying. I also liked how the people could actually fight and kill the monsters (tooth fairies/gnomes). However, I think that the director of the film really missed out on making a great movie by not embracing this facet further. I would have loved if the light (instead of just making the creatures run & hide) actually hurt/burned them. Then when the child starting using the camera flashbulb to fight them, it would have been awesome if the flash exploded the little creatures. They could have completely changed the annoying ending, and the whole tone of the movie for the better. Instead, we had the stupid people doing more stupid things, and the most overused ending in Horror, the potential sequel cliffhanger. Still, I actually enjoyed the movie for all of its faults.