Allright, yes, I'll admit, I'm a little past the age when most kids' Bambi fascination levels are at their peak, and yes, I'll also admit that I'm one of those who've made Bambi a supposed sarcastic answer when one of my friends declared they went to the video store or they went with their little brothers and sisters and asked me to guess what they rented, but let's just face it, the picture is timeless. While I probably wouldn't watch the movie now unless I was babysitting, you can't argue that it is a bonafide Disney classic and will be for as long as time exists. As Disney's second ever feature film, (Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs was the first, BTW) Bambi is a beautiful, touching, emotional and truly moving film about love and other good character traits all set in the picturesque, lush background of a woodsy forest. Altough new movies come out every year and some cause controversy and stir the movie industry up quite a bit, Bambi was there even before the movie industry had two feet to stand on. It's one of the conerstone films that really put Hollywood and Disney on the map, and while I don't think the industry would have suffered if Bambi never was, it was a fundamental building block, a key turning point in Hollywood, and one of the very few and rare films that will forever suit all generations, no matter what their age.
  The basic story is about Bambi, a young deer who is learning to cope with living in the forest, and who makes friends with Thumper, a rabbit, and Flower, a skunk, two unforgettable characters; together the three of them have cute, mischievous fun while balancing it with the wise teachings of Friend Owl. Bambi has so many wise character traits to acquire that are not only beneficial to kids at a young age, but also profitable for adults and teens to keep in mind; for example, who can forget Thumper's mom telling Thumper "If you don't say anything nice, don't say anything at all." Anyway, Bambi has just started beginning to learn how to live as a young fawn when tragedy strikes: his beloved mother, the one who watched him so lovingly and nursed him so selflessly, is shot by hunters. Although his mother's death is so hard to overcome, a fully grown Bambi wisely acquires what his mother gave him, love, and experiences it himself when he meets a pretty deer. Thumper and Flower also eventually find love, but are harshly and rudely interrupted when the dreaded enemy, Man, causes a great forest fire.
 In a classic and beautiful conclusion, Bambi and his friends escape the dreadful fire, and realize that life has it's hardships, but all that really matters are the ones you love. The music is beautiful, and the story about life, love, loss, friendship, toil, forgiveness, and rebuilding could not be told in a more perfect, effective, and gripping manner.