I remember that prior to this season, we were told that this year it would not be about another "Big Bad" ending up on Dexter's table in the final episode. Apparently someone had second thoughts. And why wouldn't they, right? It's the show's formula and it's a financial success, so why take risks, they probably told themselves. But I for one am frustrated and annoyed by this mindset.

That's the basic issue I have with the show. Another season without notable and lasting ramifications. It's quite the opposite in fact. It yet again feels like someone pushed the reset button and we're back to square one.

But this season had far greater flaws than the formulaic nature itself. The writing was all over the place. Dialogues were laughable and cringe-worthy at times.
There's a subplot about mysterious murders involving Santa Muerte cult rituals. It's odd and uninteresting to begin with, but what makes it worse is the fact that it went nowhere. They could have completely erased that entire part of the season, as it added nothing to the overall story. It also introduced a side character, a Latina cop. Just as the plot, she was a pointless addition and also was never heard of again.

The back story of the Big Bad is thin. All we know is that he, the Big Bad called Jordan Chase, and his summer camp buddies tortured girls as young boys and kept the tradition alive into their adult years. We don't get much more.
Quickly it became clear that this is the familiar story. He's bound to end up on Dexter's table. It's a false sense of suspense. It's just lazy.

The idea of Lumen is potentially interesting, but it never takes off. It's a very clumsy approach and it feels forced.
Dexter bonds with her, as they both have a "dark passenger" inside them. It leads to some good scenes and fine acting by Michael C. Hall(not by Julia Stiles, who cannot remotely keep up with him). But in the finale, Lumen, in the blink of an eye, just doesn't carry this passenger anymore, gets on a bus and the writer's are done with it. All said and done, because that's how things work in Dexter universe.

Another reviewer has addressed the numerous plot holes and cheap plot devices.
The writers always take the easy way out. For Dexter to get in a ridiculous car accident to move the plot along is just terrible writing. Same goes for how neatly the whole thing with Quinn resolved itself. Multiple things that still make him look extremely suspicious are simply disregarded.
The cheapest of all tricks was the plastic sheet scene, though. It's an unbelievable and ridiculous cop-out. Instead of playing with Deb finding out they should finally have her do so. The show desperately needs it.