Micheal Mann has yet to make a bad movie. I think he is one of the best directors in Hollywood today and would say his work is comparable only to that of Terrance Malik. In all honesty I haven't liked Depp in a film since "Sleepy Hollow", this is the first time in years I think he actually became a character other than Johhny Depp. I have heard a lot of people talk poorly of this film, especially in terms of dialog and Christian Bale's performance. In my opinion, what Mann is going for, as he usually does, is a sense of realism. I have read many reviews that have said "Public Enemies" is a good film, but it's no "Heat". "Heat" has been and will always be one of my favorite films, but "Public Enemies" matches it and goes beyond it in many ways. Mann's use of digital hand cameras brings something to cinema that no other director has managed to do, making the viewer feel apart of the action and not just a voyeur. He gets close to the actors and you can actually see the imperfections of an actors face, wrinkles, scars and all. The dialog is more down to earth than it was in "Heat", while we all love watching actors have long in-depth conversations about the meaning of their characters existence, let's be honest, how often does that happen in life? While this may be why we go to the movies, it's unrealistic especially when dealing with "street smart" characters. As much as I love the coffee scene in "Heat", I find it hard to believe that a conversation between a career cop and a hardened thief would be so articulate. Bale's performance in this film is excellent. Yes, he is quiet and doesn't have a whole lot of lines, but he shouldn't. Bale's character is a man on the verge, suicidal, and unqualified to do the job he's assigned. He's more or less a paid assassin with a badge, knows it, and hate's himself for it. His dialog and actions fit his character and he plays it well. If you're looking a Hollywood blockbuster, look elsewhere. If you're looking for a smart film that is filmed beautifully and breaks the mold for how movies need to be told, it doesn't get any better. This is not a gangster film, it is just a film and despite that the fact that it won't, should win best picture this year. If you didn't like "Miami Vice" you probably won't like this. Mann once again manages to blur the line between cop and criminal, good and bad and shows men doing what they need to do to get by in the world, there viewer can't help but feel compassion for all the characters no matter what moral side they stand on. This film sets a new standard for how movies can tell a story and should be watched by anyone who truly loves cinema!