"Total Recall" is set in the distant future after humans have colonized Mars. Vacation packages in this alternate reality are a couch potato's paradise. Now, all one has to do to take a "vacation" is to sit on a high-tech recliner while your chosen vacation program is downloaded, installed and ready to run right into your subconscious mind. The average consumer can also purchase "implanted memories."
The main character, Douglas Quaid (Arnold Schwarzenegger), is troubled by recurring dreams about a journey to Mars. To help figure out the meaning of his dreams, Quaid visits Rekall, Inc. where they sell implanted memories. While Quaid is undergoing the treatment he recalls a time in his life when he was a secret agent fighting against the evil Mars administrator (Rony Cox). Quaid finds himself in a nightmarish reality of a Martian mining colony controlled by a terrorizing dictator and rebellious Martians. Meanwhile, he is contacted by members from Rekall, Inc. who attempt to bring him back from an implanted program gone awry. 
Lori Quaid (Sharon Stone), his wife, is sent into the program ("The Lawnmower Man," and the more recent movie, "The Cell" come to mind) to bring him back from his coma-like state. Quaid is confronted with the difficulty in choosing which reality to accept as the true reality. Is Quaid really a secret agent or is he just imagining that he is due to the program? Which path does he choose? Does he run the course of the program until the secret agent saves everyone or does he choose to take a pill ("Matrix" style) so that Rekall, Inc. can recover him from the errors of the program?
The first DVD release of "Total Recall" was a double-sided DVD with one side containing a 1.85:1 non-anamorphic widescreen presentation, and the other side containing a "standard" presentation. The extras were average containing cast and crew histories, a teaser trailer, and a full trailer. This title has now been revisited with a new anamorphic widescreen presentation, plenty of special features, and packaged in a unique collectible tin "Mars" DVD case!
Special features that appear on this new Limited Special Edition DVD include the "Imagine Total Recall" documentary that takes you behind-the-scenes with the film's stars, including a new rare interview with legendary actor Arnold Schwarzenegger! The DVD also features an audio commentary with director Paul Verhoeven and actor Arnold Schwarzenegger, a "Mars: Fact or Fiction" featurette, "Rekall's Virtual Vacation," and the "Visions of Mars" featurette!
Artisan Entertainment is producing this new Limited Special Edition DVD of "Total Recall." Artisan is the same company that gave us the highly collectible "Terminator 2: Ultimate Edition" DVD! I expect similar results with this new reissue to be released on September 18, 2001!