Pacashau Sacred Divinity Choir has lost their choir master, Bernard Sparrow, and they need someone to replace him. G.G. Sparrow (Dolly Parton) feels she's better qualified, but the church council gives the position to Vi Rose Hill (Queen Latifah). The church has entered The National Joyful Noise Competition four years in a row, always getting to the regional semi-finals but never making it to the finals. Because of the bad economy, people in the small town of Pacashau are really counting on the choir to win this time.

I laughed quite a bit watching this movie. I don't think Vi Rose and G.G. got along even before the church council's decision. The bickering between the two of them was funny.  And the scene by the hotel elevator: I know Vi Rose was serious, and I was glad she got around to telling Olivia what she needed to hear, but some of the things she said to her daughter made me laugh. But the funniest part of the movie was the pep talk Vi Rose gave the choir after Our Lady of Perpetual Tears performed. Queen Latifah does very well in comedic roles.

There were touching scenes: The talk Vi Rose had with her son, when G.G. sang `From Here to the Moon and Back' and when Vi Rose sang `Fix Me'.

There were lots of good lines - or some I could probably call folk sayings or words of wisdom. My favorites: When folks get too wrapped up in themselves, they make very small packages/People who ain't around make very few mistakes/God gives you girls so your mama can say, "I told you so."

I didn't expect Asperger's to be addressed. What a person with this syndrome goes through, what may be felt about the condition and the struggles - it was all very well done. Dexter Darden played Vi's son, Walter, and he gave a fine performance.

I didn't really care for G.G.'s grandson, Randy (Jeremy Jordan), and that's mostly because of the way he disrespected Vi and he was not a good influence on Olivia (Keke Palmer). I did not like his `church girl' remark; it was not a good message to send to teenage girls who care about living for Jesus. I guess Randy had his good moments, but the boy was a rebel. So, the young love thing - Randy's relationship with Olivia - would have been sweet, but it wasn't.

I liked the character Devonne (DeQuina Moore), because that habit she had was kinda cute and funny. It was nice to see Jesse L. Martin (Law & Order's Detective Ed Green) as Marcus Hill, Vi's husband. I liked the way his character was used to show the pressure a loving father and husband can feel during hard economic times. And I enjoyed seeing Kirk Franklin on stage.

Jeremy Jordan, Keke Palmer, Queen Latifah, Dolly Parton - there are good singing voices in this movie. The music is what I loved most, especially Vi Rose (Queen Latifah) singing "Fix Me' and Our Lady of Perpetual Tears singing `That's The Way God Planned It' - the soloist, Ivan Kelley, Jr. is awesome!!!!  I had purchased those two songs before watching the Amazon Instant Video. After the movie I immediately purchased the soundtrack.

I didn't expect the profanity, but it didn't really bother me; however, the sex out of wedlock could have been handled differently. What I mean is, Pastor Dale (Courtney B. Vance) should have given Earla (Angela Grovey) a better, more godly response. And there were moments that reminded me of Sister Act 2, starring Whoopi Goldberg, and The Fighting Temptations, starring Cuba Gooding, Jr., but still, Joyful Noise is good, uplifting entertainment.

*Do not copy/paste my review without permission. Thank you:)