The main reason why guys liked Shampoo is because they wanted to live the life that Warren Beatty was living.

Even the star of the hairstyle reality show Blow Out (Jonathan Antin) said that Shampoo was his inspiration to become a stylist.

How many other Warren Wannabees followed along that same path?

Too many, I'm sure!

But, today it's not  really that hard to live the life of the character in Shampoo, if you have just a little game.

Don't get me wrong, Warren does look good, but his motorcycle is stale and his hair is ridiculous.

Plus, the females that Warren's character was bagging are either not that fine or too old.

I mean Carrie Fisher looked OK in no bra and whatever age she was at the time, but hardly a total hottie.

Goldie Hawn, probably the cutest one of his conquests, is a relic of the 60's, a whiny pain for the most part and nowhere near as fine as her daughter Kate Hudson who is more the prototype of who's out there now for the taking.

And Lee Grant and Julie Christie were in their mid to late 30's! And back then girls in their 30's...looked like they were in their 30's!!!

So, right off the bat, you kind of lose your interest in 'being like Warren.' It's just not worth taking your chances on such so-so girls in this post-AIDS world.

Plus, the movie's  supposed 'shocking' scenes -

1) Where Carrie Fisher says "I want to F____ you" and

2) When Julie Christie says "I want to s___ his c___"

are more embarassing than erotic. Call me crazy but low rent, trash-mouth, drunken lout chicks just don't turn me on like they used to.

Finally the movie's politics are a complete joke.

It's basically Hollywood liberals making making fun of the corrupt Nixon administration.

But Hollywood liberals, in fact liberals in general, lost ALL moral authority to decry corrupution in the Oval Office after they excused and sat on their hands during the FAR MORE corrupt Clinton administration.

And it's that sensibility...that smug leftist cockeyed view of the world that tried to juxtapose Warren's carnality with Nixon's corruption as a social political statement... that dates this movie more than anything.