David Lynch's THE ELEPHANT MAN (1980) is based (with some fictionalization) on the life story of Joseph "John" Merrick, an Englishman who was called the Elephant Man because of the grotesque, congenital deformities of his body and face.  Shot in black and white, THE ELEPHANT MAN opens with homage to another film classic set in Victorian England, David Lean's OLIVER TWIST (1948).  In that film, Oliver's mother struggles through a violent storm before giving birth at a workhouse.  In this film, John's mother is knocked down during pregnancy by an elephant (one of a touring menagerie).  Then a baby's cry is heard:  like little Oliver Twist, young John Merrick enters a world of hardship - made all the worse by the hideous disfigurement which will force him to work as a sideshow freak.
Next, we meet Dr. Frederick Treves (Anthony Hopkins), a London surgeon who takes an interest in Merrick's fate after seeing him on display at a local freak show.  Treves pays the Elephant Man's cruel manager, Mr. Bytes, to give him over to the care of the Royal London Hospital.  At first, the deformity of Merrick's mouth, and his extreme shyness and fear, cause Treves to think him "an imbecile"; all he can do is grunt and groan or keep silent.  But in a stunning scene Merrick is overheard reciting his favorite Psalm; Treves and his colleagues realize that they are in fact caring for a man of uncommon intelligence, sensitivity, and refinement.  Soon, "Mr. Merrick" is set up in his own hospital suite, given elegant, gentleman's clothing, and introduced to London "Society."  He gains poise and shows his innate gentleness more and more.  He has tea with lords and ladies and finds a kindred spirit in Mrs. Madge Kendal (Anne Bancroft), an actress.  Yet all the time his past threatens to overtake him, in the form of old associates who lurk about, hoping to kidnap back their profitable "freak" attraction.  And also there is the nagging question, put by Treves himself, as to whether the drawing room is not merely a more respectable form of the sideshow, with Merrick "on display" before those of his visitors who come only to gape at him.
It has been suggested that the movie's Treves was conceived as an opportunist, more interested in career advancement than in humanitarianism.  But this view is at odds with Hopkins' sympathetic portrayal.  A moment early in the film sets the tone:  as Treves has his first look at the Elephant Man at the freak show, a tear slips from his eye at the sight of such degradation.  Empathy is shown also by John Gielgud as hospital chairman F.C. Carr Gomm:  his is a warm, reassuring presence, and the characterization is not without (welcome) humor.  The Elephant Man's other supporters include his nurse (a prickly but good-hearted Wendy Hiller) and Treves' wife, with whom he has a most touching teatime conversation.  In short, Merrick's new friends may not be perfect, but they are humane, unlike those old "friends" who would purposely humiliate him.  (Just watch, if you can bear to, their truly ugly mockery of him before they spirit him away from the hospital.)
John Hurt as John Merrick exudes spiritual beauty.  Just as surely as that refined English voice emanates from that twisted mouth, his kindness and gentleness make the viewer, in time, nearly forget his appearance, initially so shocking.  When one watches Hurt in THE ELEPHANT MAN, one feels as though one is watching the real-life Mr. Merrick (who by all accounts had the same genteel qualities).  Higher praise can scarcely be possible.
The film's sense of atmosphere is superb, its London a steamy, grimy, crowded place; constant whirring and clanking sounds remind us that this is the 1880's, the Industrial Revolution (which was itself dehumanizing).  Countless moments haunt the memory long after the film ends - Treves' appalled look and falling tear when he first sees Merrick; Byte's boy's imitation of his master's harsh commands; Merrick's comforting of Mrs. Treves ("Oh, please...Oh, please...") when she breaks down in his presence, and his almost musical exclamations of joy over kindnesses shown him; the terrible scene in which Merrick is cornered by a mob in a train station (quite the equal in dramatic impact of "Cortigiani, vil razza dannata," the deformed jester's scene before the jeering courtiers in Verdi's opera RIGOLETTO); his magical first (and last) visit to the theatre - but none so much as Merrick's transcendent death scene, accompanied by Samuel Barber's elegiac "Adagio for Strings" (the rest of the film's score is by John Morris and is close to the Barber in style and orchestration).  "Beautiful" is the word for this scene, and for Hurt's whole performance.