Despite being an unnerving, gruesome, and at times, twisted film, Se7en directed by David Fincher takes an accurate look at today's society.
Granted, everything has been amplified, but by the end of the movie, you can clearly see a message being put forth to the viewer, and that is, the world that we live in is dark, disturbing, and full of sin.
Se7en, which was made in 1995, takes place in a crime-ridden district, where a fresh-face detective by the name of Mills (Brad Pitt) has just arrived and been paired with Detective Somerset (Morgan Freeman), who is on the verge of retirement.
Although wise-mouthed and impatient, Mills' outlook on things is quite bright, while Somerset's is pessimistic, which quickly leads to a clash in styles.
Right off the bat, the duo is assigned to check out a murder where an obese man has apparently been forced to eat himself to death.
At first, it seems to be just an unusual murder, but Somerset soon sees a pattern being formed, following the murder of a high-powered lawyer, whose blood was used to write "Greed" on the floor of his office.
Somerset catches on that these two murders were based after two of the seven deadly sins, with the obese man's sin being gluttony, and the lawyer's, of course being greed.
Murders based on other deadly sins such as sloth and lust soon follow, with each one not being for the faint of heart, even though in each case, the victim is already dead when we finally see them.
Somerset concludes that the serial killer is using these murders to preach his sermon, and a small game of cat and mouse between the detectives and the killer ensues.
The mood of Se7en is projected nicely through its look; it's dark and gloomy, even indoors, colors with even a hint of brightness in them are used sparingly, and it's usually raining outside.
One dynamic that most people are sure to notice is the film's intelligent and unique dialogue, which can be credited to the film's writer, Andrew Kevin Walker, who didn't "dumb down" any of the film's dialogue.
The key characters in Se7en were well cast, with Pitt doing a fine job as the well-meaning but at times naïve detective, and Freeman excelling in his role as the "seen it all" detective.
Gwyneth Paltrow plays Tracy, Mills' wife and is effective in the role, despite being seen infrequently throughout the film.
One of the more unique aspects of Se7en is that the killer makes his first appearance near the end, and provides a thought provoking little speech explaining his motive behind the murders.
This is really a strong element, when you take a look at so many other movies that feature a murderer who is killing for no apparent reason (or whose reason for killing is quite lackluster).
To some, the ending may seem unsatisfying, but in my eyes, it just sent home the film's message via a cruel twist.
Overall, Se7en will have you on the edge of your seat for two hours, but unlike other films that do that; this one will provoke your mind, leaving you full of thoughts at its conclusion.