Do you believe in fate?  How about destiny or the fact that everything happens for a reason, and there are no coincidences in life? In the romantic comedy Serendipity, it is a story of two New Yorkers, Jonathan Trager (John Cusack) and Sara Thomas (Kate Beckinsale) who meet by fate in a Bloomingdale's department store over a pair of black cashmere gloves, and spend an odd yet nice night together, then leave it all to chance as they write their phone numbers on a five dollar bill and a used book. If the bill or book is found then they know that they were meant to be and that fate has brought them together.  Years later, after neither have found each others phone numbers,  the two are close to getting married to different people, basically on the same date. While both are having second thoughts about their current situation and can't get the other off their minds, try one more time to find each other. This hopeful romantic film is a great date movie and highly recommended. If you don't believe in fate now, you will once you have watched this movie.

 Serendipity means a fortunate accident. I personally think that everything happens for a reason and that there are no accidents or coincidences in life. So this movie was right up my ally. A little frustrating at first though to see a couple hit it off so well and then leave everything to chance, but if it was meant to be then it will happen, right? The two go through some pretty suspenseful twists and your left thinking if they're going to end up finding each other. The lengths that they both endure are so sweet you just want them to find each other and fall madly in love again.

John Cusack and Kate Beckinsale have amazing on- screen chemistry, and when put together they make the perfect pair. John Cusack is a very witty guy in this film and is always there for a good laugh. His character, Jonathan Trager is your typical hopeless romantic that you end up rooting for in the end to find the girl and sweep her off her feet. He is a very talented actor and is nothing short of in this flick. His character is also paired with best friend Dean Kansky (Jeremy Piven), an obituary writer for the New York Times. Together these two are the dynamic duo. Jeremy Piven with his one-liners and comedic timing is a perfect side kick for the uneasy and confused Jonathan Trager. Both are in the race to find the girl of Jonathan's dream, running all around New York, pulled in a million directions, and fighting over obstacles in order to have one last chance with "the one" that got away, two days before his wedding. Opposite John Cusack, Kate Beckinsale is also an amazing actress to watch. She sparkles on screen with her beauty and grace, playing the perfect girl for Jonathan to chase. She too is linked with a best friend, Eve (Molly Shannon) who is by her side the whole time tearing through New York to try and find Jonathan. Molly Shannon's character owns a new-age store in San Francisco, and has just the quirky style and comedic support to balance out Kate Beckinsale. They are the perfect best bud match and are fun to watch interact with each other. With the wonderful setting of the beautiful New York and these four talented actors this movie was sure to attract all those hopeless romantics out there.

Serendipity overall is a fantastic movie, with an interesting storyline, talented and well known actors all to a backdrop of the beautiful New York skyline. This is a great romantic comedy that will keep you in a pleasant suspense until the very end, and left wondering if there is a certain person out there that you are meant to spend the rest of your life with. Will you meet by fate, by chance; is it your long time best friend, or the person sitting next to you on the subway? This movie leaves you questioning your every move, and second guessing your life choices. Give fate and destiny a chance; you never know what they will bring to you.