I don't really know if I would say this was a great movie, but it is a fascinating movie. Even more fascinating if you watch it with the audio commentary. Normally I'm not too keen on that audio commentary stuff, but  in this case I was intrigued because of a scene in which Barbara Steele the  witch/vampire sucks the life energy (or something like that) out of Barbara  Steele the love interest/mortal. In the course of this transformation their  (her) makeup changes so that one character appears to age while the other  appears to grow younger. (Now, this wasn't a Wolfman kind of thing, where  the camera dissolves between a series of makeup applications and you can  clearly see the dissolves between separate shots. I mean, Barbarba was  doing some serious writhing while those age lines were appearing and  disappearing on her face, and there were no signs of cuts or dissolves! And  this was in the days before computer morphing.) Anyway, I wondered, How the  hell did they do that? So I enabled the audio commentary in the menu and  sure enough the effect was explained (it was a pretty ingenious little  effect too, I might add). Anyway, I ended up watching the whole movie with  the commentary over it, because darned if all didn't turn out to pretty  fascinating. The commentary was done by film historian/expert/possible OCD  sufferer named Tim Lucas who seemed to know what he was talking about. Now,  normally, there's something about those "The Making of" media  specials/reports about Hollywood blockbusters--Titanic, for example--that  just put me to sleep. I mean, as far as I'm concerned, you spend $100  million and have several dozen nerds slaving over  computer keyboards for  months, your effects better look pretty spiffy. But when you get impressive  results when your using a child's wagon for your dolly shots and poached  egges for eyeballs, that's when I get interested. Anyway, thumb's up from  me on your job, Mr. Lucas. Apparently this same fellow provides audio  commentary on Kill, Baby, Kill too. Which I'm thinking I might buy as  well.
I should add that the transfer for Black Sunday is pretty nice, and  this is pretty important because the big thing this movie has going for it  (as opposed to, say, great acting, brilliant dialogue, etc.) is its  cinematography. And atmosphere. It's got that too.