When I purchased this movie, I had it in mind to watch it with my 3-year-old son, which I did. My son liked it ok, but I was put off by it. The coldness of the characters (especially the human characters) brings a whole new meaning to the term "uncanny valley," which traditionally means something intended to look like a human, but falls short in such a way that looks creepy. In this case, it applies to the emotional aspects of the characters, rather than the physical.

(The following paragraphs contain SPOILERS for early scenes in the movie).

You never really get to know Toby before he dies, so it's easy to emotionally detach yourself from his death. My son was not so disturbed by it as he is too young to understand much of the plot. Despite the cold, detached way the movie portrayed these scenes, I was disturbed. Not because of the death of Toby, mind you. I was disturbed as a father whose greatest fears are portrayed in this movie in a way I can't empathize with. It made me feel uncomfortable to be so detached. Add to that the fact that the writer/director chickens out on Toby's death and makes him just disappear, literally in a flash of light, so that it takes a few moments to understand that he died. Toby's father, Dr. Tenma (a very blah Nicholas Cage) doesn't react to Toby's death in a way that makes the death (let alone his reaction to it) seem believable. All you get from him is, "Where's my son? Where's Toby," spoken in a tone that reminds me of Willy Wonka's, "Don't. Stop. Come back." Then he forces himself to whimper over Toby's hat. There is no funeral; no semblance of actual grieving before Dr. Tenma is seen creating a robotic replacement some days later.

After a couple of short scenes with Dr. Tenma and Astro Boy at home (not spending much time with eachother, though), and with no further character development, Dr. Tenma rejects Astro Boy for not being like Toby. His explanation being that something is different about him -- he's not Toby.

What the heck?! They seemed the same to me! There was no way to know what was so different about Astro Boy that he could just throw him out like that. He was the same kid! Sure, he was modified with rockets for feet and machine guns that stick out of his butt so that he can escape death, but otherwise, Astro Boy seemed just as human and boy-like as Toby or any other boy in this celluloid universe. These characters have no soul.

In the original comic book, Dr. Tenma was more harsh toward Astro Boy and chased him away with a shovel. I think I would have preferred that, because then you at least have some semblance of REAL EMOTION. When compared to coldly telling him "I don't want you," the comic book showed Dr. Tenma as a human who is suffering from his failed attempt to cope.

In the movie, the characters merely react to their emotions, but do not express them in a way that makes their actions seem genuine.

If you ask me what was good about this movie, it's the fact that my son loved the robots, the Astro Boy character, and I can't say he was distressed about any of the events in the movie. Ham Egg (Nathan Lane) was one of two characters that I felt had substance. He reminded me a bit of Emperor Palpatine from Star Wars. The other character of substance was Dr. Elefun, who seemed to be the only person with any real emotion or conscience, but no guts. There are also a couple of impressive scenes that exhibit the environment, as well as Astro Boy's powers, but other than that, the movie was just a dud.