Playing on more number one hits than Elvis, the Beatles, the Beach Boys, and the Rolling Stones combined, their grooves and melodies redefined the pop music lexicon, forever spinning in the jukebox of our unconscious. Yet somehow, they've lingered in anonymity.
For those stumped by the decades-old mystery of who really supplied the sounds behind Motown Records' superstar singers, the answer is finally revealed. STANDING IN THE SHADOWS OF MOTOWN is a film documentary about the Funk Brothers, the session musicians responsible for weaving the real magic of the label's "Sound Of Young America" during the 1960's. Even though they worked during a time when all supporting bands took a back seat to the famous front persons, it remains a travesty how one this essentially good could go for so long before gaining even a shred of notoriety.
It was worth the wait. STANDING IN THE SHADOWS... is a warm and breezy account, not the bitter confessional of a VH1 Behind The Music feature, nor the somber history lesson of a Ken Burns series. Director Paul Justman casually shuffles the story back and forth, allowing the remaining members to wax nostalgic, amid rare photograph stills and hazy re-enactments from the group's carefree days.
It's the modern-day footage which places their bond in perspective. In and around cold and snowy Detroit, they reminisce at a coffee shop, even gathering out in front of a condo complex which once was home to a stretch of clubs they frequented. When they return to the Motown headquarters' basement recording room known as "the Snakepit," the laughs and stories really fly. You're immediately charmed by their charisma, and it's evident that they're still as tight as the music they once crafted.
If the commentary and historic visuals represent the heart of this film, then the live performances clearly provide the soul. Forty-one years after Motown's birth, the surviving Funk Brothers reunited for a concert in the Motor City, with the lead vocals delivered by an impressive cast of singers including Gerald Levert, Joan Osborne, Bootsy Collins, Ben Harper, Chaka Khan, Montell Jordan, and Meshell Ndegeocello. Aided by lots of sheet music, the Brothers sound tremendous, as if they'd never stopped jamming together. Their in-the-pocket grooving and sweetly-textured melodies are as perfect as in their heyday.
Only this time, a contemporary set of vocalists are the beneficiaries. Levert is a dead-ringer for the Four Tops' Levi Stubbs on "Reach Out I'll Be There;" Osborne wails superbly like Martha Reeves on "Heatwave;" the flamboyant Collins spins colorful takes of "Cool Jerk" and the Contours' "Do You Love Me;" and a reverent Harper evokes the spirit of Marvin Gaye with a brassy version of "I Heard It Through the Grapevine." Hearing these classics is always a celebration; seeing their creators performing them one more time, as the centerpiece of their own documentary surrounded by adoring colleagues, is poetic justice.
The Funk Brothers flourished in a period of extreme social and political tensions, holding their heads high and providing the vehicle for Hitsville, USA's classy, optimistic vibe. And at last they've received their props, in a showcase as befitting as the joy they brought to an entire generation, and beyond.