I lack the vocabulary to describe the Jeff Beck experience.  Jeff Beck is the most talented individual I've ever heard play guitar.  I'm deeply sorry that I didn't know of him until I saw the Crossroads concert.  With that said...

Performing This Week: Live at Ronnie Scott's was on my recommended suggestions, and as soon as I saw the name, Jeff Beck I clicked on buy without even looking to see what I was buying.  I didn't care, it said Jeff Beck and I was ecstatic!  Like a kid in a candy shop when I got this DVD I propped it up on my night stand like a young woman in love would an 8x10 of her lover and just left it there for a few days, still having not looked to see exactly what was on it other than a cursor y scan of the song titles.  Then one evening, I decided it was time to watch...

To my complete surprise the entire band that Jeff Beck used on the  Crossroads concert was with him on this DVD and I already knew I wouldn't be disappointed but when I saw he would be performing this concert with this group of musicians I knew this would be extra special.  I have wanted desperately to see a concert with Jeff Beck playing more than just one or two songs and this was it for me.  I love seeing the body language and the facial expression of an artist with their instrument. It's just wondrous how the instrument and the artist are one.

The price of this concert scared me.  I thought it was a misprint, so I hurriedly clicked on it.  So many times artistic beauty is pricey, and I want to really give kudo's to whomever is responsible for making this concert affordable for those of us who don't make the big bucks but know true art when we see and hear it.  If I were ever lucky enough to see Jeff Beck in person, I would pay him again for this concert, and thank him for allowing me to see and hear it.  Imogen Heap sang "Blanket" and I kept playing it over and over as the two of them together were in complete sync with that song.  I loved that performance.  Joss Stone did a fantastic job as well.  The added bonus of Eric Clapton was "off the hook" excellent in the two songs he and Jeff performed together.  Mr. Clapton is the master at bringing people together and I've "met" a lot of artists I would never have heard had it not been through some of Eric Clapton's collaborative music sessions.

And not to exclude the band, I hope this band remains together as is.  They are truly "one" .

I want to see the number of people who have bought this DVD go up!  Don't let the low price fool you people, this concert is a MASTERPIECE!  Everyone who ever loved Jeff Beck and any person who fantasizes about playing the guitar should buy this DVD.