"Sunday Bloody Sunday" is, in my opinion, one of the best films of the 1970s, and a wonderful, nuanced character study, where, even if watching for the fifteenth or twentieth time, one still finds new layers and details to appreciate that they may have missed during previous viewings. As has already been discussed by other reviewers here, the star trio, Jackson, Finch and Head all give excellent performances (in Jackson's case, perhaps the best of her career), and there's probably very little I could add that other's haven't already referenced in the many excellent reviews here. The only thing that I didn't see specifically referenced in any of the other reviews that I think really warrants mention is the collection of child actors who play the Hodson children, whom Bob and Alex babysit. I'm not usually fond of child actors/characters in film, as they are usually depicted as being either overly cute and precocious, or smart-alec-y and not particularly realistic. But the children in "Sunday Bloody Sunday" are depicted as being exactly what they are supposed to be: children raised by overly permissive hippy parents who've let them indulge in things in which children probably should probably not indulge. And the young actors -- partularly the girl who plays eldest daughter Lucy -- are perfect in their roles.  The scene where the children are passing around a joint, and Alex asks "Are you children smoking pot?", and Lucy responds "Are you bourgeois?" still cracks me up, even having already seen the movie dozens of times, as does the scene where she speculates as to why Bob has walked out on Alex. These exchanges make the later scenes in the park, where Lucy displays vulnerability, and we are reminded that she is still merely a child even more dramatic. She may have remarkable insight for a child, but she is still a child.  It would have been interesting to have seen this young actress develop as she grew up, but it doesn't seem like she played any futher roles after this film.