Yes, the motion-capture animation is kind of lame, at least when it comes to human faces--although I loved the way they made the dragon fly--but the story makes up for it. It's not really a violation of the original poem, as some outraged reviewers have written, but instead a kind of imaginative probe inside the origins of it. It's a kind of "This is what really happened" idea. Or in the voice of Walter Cronkite, "The date is between 500 and 700 A.D. and the place is Denmark, and YOU are there."

The premise of the movie is that Beowulf didn't really kill Grendel's mother, as the poet tells us. Instead he was seduced by her. The poet is only writing down the oral tradition he has inherited from his Norse pagan ancestors, songs of their heroic deeds before the Saxons' migration to England and their Christianization around the 7th Century.  The poet repeatedly uses anachronisms like "God in majesty" and "the almighty father," but the movie corrects this, only once referring to the "new god of the Romans." Okay, it commits its own share of anachronisms, like Grendel's mom (an Angelina Jolie blow-up doll) in stiletto heels, but hey ... I'll let Zemeckis get away with that one.

 So the implication is that the story we are familiar with has been told that way because that's the way Beowulf said it happened, and Wiglaf, who learned the truth at the end, when Beowulf lay dying beside his son, the dead dragon, did not reveal the 50-year deception of his friend and lord. Some reviewers hated this deconstruction of a hero, but that's what I liked about it. Beowulf was human like the rest of us. And if that's not bad enough, we are made to feel a little sympathy for Grendel -- a spawn of hell, sure, but also an ugly kid with a bad mother.  In the poem everything is tied up neatly: Grendel, his mother and the dragon are all killed, their Geat-eating days over for good, thanks to the heroic deeds of mighty Beowulf. But in real life it's never that clean.

As he stands on the beach beside his dead king and his demonic offspring -- which in death has been curiously transformed into a human shape resembling his father -- Wiglaf sees Grendel's mother (in the stunning form of Angelina Jolie) rise up out of the sea, smiling that seductive, evil smile. Holding the dragon's gold, he wades into the surf. So in the movie, as in reality, the cycle continues. Desire never ends.