The back story of AI is fairly well known:  It was a project of Stanley Kubrick's for many years, and after Kubrick died, Steven Spielberg went ahead and made the film.  Ostensibly it was homage to Mr. Kubrick, but in fact it serves as a fascinating study of directorial philosophies and styles, and how a director's imprint on film is indelible.
Originally based on the short story "Super-Toys Last All Summer Long" by Brian Aldiss AI tells the story of David (Haley Joel Osment) the first robot that is built to love.  Many robots (or "mechas" as they are known) are loved -- animatronic sex toys called 'lover mechas,' are popular -- but this is a great leap forward:  David will love, not be loved.  A prototype David is built and delivered to the home of a couple whose son is cryogenically frozen.  At first the mother is appalled, but in one desperate moment she activates David's love circuits.  From that moment on, the instructions have warned her, David will love her completely and unfailingly.  As guaranteed, he does -- but she doesn't.
It seems clear that Kubrick's original vision was dark; corporate interests who will exploit grief and sell love for greater market share, or a society where maternal love itself becomes another mass-produced disposable commodity.  But Spielberg doesn't seem interested in such themes, and steers the film into a rather dull retelling of -- surprise -- Pinocchio.  Yes, David is the puppet who wants to be a real boy.  Set against a backdrop of a post-apocalyptic earth where the sea levels have risen hundreds of feet, this top-drawer effects film is a routine rehash of Spielberg's favorite fairy tale.  The mecha David is the puppet, his manufacturer Geppeto, his animatronic teddy Jiminy Cricket.
These two basic visualizations -- presumably Kubrick's and Spielberg's -- simply do not mesh.  A scene where a mecha is destroyed for human entertainment is a good example of crippling misdirection.  A robot is fired from a cannon, set afire, and passed through rotating knives.  The mecha is voiced by Chris Rock, who offers his usual street-jive patter.  Yet we hear (and perhaps laugh) at Rock's voice only an instant before the mecha's burning face, torn from its head, smashes against the bars of David's cage.  David -- and the audience -- recoils in horror.  It's a woeful mismatch.
The film shows flashes of originality and a great deal of technical brilliance.  Jude Law, who plays a lover mecha ("Gigolo Joe", he is called, but all such mechas might be called that) is superb, and his make-up is unnerving.  The supertoy, Teddy, is a perfect blend of pessimism and determination as he keeps up with David's quest for the Blue Fairy, all the while warning him of the dangers along the way.  Even Haley Joel Osment does the best he can with his bafflingly contradictory role.  He is most effective in the early scenes, when his skin looks like very expensive plastic, and his flat smile gives us, as well as his foster-mother, the willies.
Visually the movie is stunning.  The effects are always good and in some cases astonishing (such as the flying craft seen in the film's epilogue).  Spielberg, even when he gets bogged down in mawkishness and sentimentality, is the master visual technician and takes us effortlessly through the surreal images of this strange future world.  But his screen story -- at least starting from Kubrick's black thesis -- seems untenable.  A story of a robot that can be "switched on" to love when it is convenient for the owner, and then cast away when not, should not have a happy ending. One can only wonder where Kubrick would have gone with the idea.