Russell Crowe is, without a doubt, very good in "Gladiator", but Tom Hanks in "Cast Away" is superb. It is in this film, that one finds the actor whose performance was truly Oscar worthy. Those who voted Crowe over Hanks as the year's recipient of the best actor Oscar had their heads in the sand, as Hanks gives a performance that I do not think that even he can equal.

This film is like a play in three acts. What life was like before being cast away. What life was like as a castaway. What life was like after being cast away. After having seen the film, the title of the movie is somewhat ambiguous, upon reflection. It could easily refer to the status of Hanks' character during either the middle or ending sequence of the film. I leave it to the viewer to decide this conundrum.

Hanks flawlessly plays the role of Chuck Noland (Was there a pun intended here?), a highly energized, time obsessed, systems engineer for Federal Express. On Christmas Eve, he makes a last minute decision to board a flight and escort some packages on a run to their destination. He pops the question to his girlfriend Kelly, played by Helen Hunt, and presents her with an engagement ring just seconds before he boards his ill fated flight. What then happens on that flight is no secret. Suffice to say that it is a wonderfully filmed disaster scene that is sure to strike terror in even the most blase of travelers.

The second part of the movie is the crux of the film. For nearly an hour, Hanks is the only living human being on film. He totally carries the day and sustains the film with the power of his performance. We watch as he survives the rigors of his days and copes with the solitude that comes with being marooned on a deserted island for four years, sustained by a photograph of his fiancee, Kelly. Hanks captivates the viewer with his sense of joy and wonder as he creates fire. We watch as his loneliness drives him to invent a friend, Wilson, out of a volleyball that washes ashore. Hanks' performance is such that the viewer mourns the eventual loss of Wilson and experiences the poignancy of that moment when Hanks and Wilson are irrevocably parted.

The third part with the film has to do with his being rescued. Having withstood four years as a survivalist on the island, Hanks' character decides that no life is better than the life that he was leading. Making a raft, he makes for the open seas, taking his chances. He is rescued, but after four years the life he left behind has all but disappeared. Kelly has moved on with her life, and he, in effect, has been cast away. It is here that the picture falters somewhat, as there is no happy ending and the film ends somewhat unresolved. Still, it is an excellent film, and Hanks' performance is definitely award calibre.