Clearly the story of spartacus is one of the greatest ever told. Heartbreaking and inspiring, it is indeed worth of the cinematic doting that it has received.

In comparing both the 1960 Kirk Douglas/Stanley Kubrick with 2004 TV-remake, it is clear that new remake is vastly superior to the old version, which was surprising given the acclaim on 1960 version and the panning the 2004 remake has received.

PRODUCTION VALUES

The 2004 remake of Spartcus occurring 40 years lates than the earlier 1960 version has vastly superior production values. The 1960 version had scenes with painted backgrounds and sets that were obviously stages. The shot-in-Europe 2004 sequel benefited from far more realistic sets and scenery. My wife commented on the details of scenes in the new version and lacking in the original. Moreover, the fight sequences were far more graphic and better photographed than the Kubrick version.

ACTING

The 1960 version benefitted from the thespian talents of some of the finest actors on the era. And who can compare with the insuperable Lawrence Olivier? The acting in the old one was superb, however, the acting in the remake was just as excellent and probably on a par with the old one in many respects. Moreover, I found the actors and actresses of the new version to be far more physically appearling than the 1960 version.

SCRIPT

The 2004 version filled holes in the story the were missing from the 1960 version. For example there was a beautiful scene in the 2004 film in which the newly-freed gladiators look across the field to see that a crowd of slaves is starting to approach them, an example of how Spartacus began attracting followers early on. In the 1960 version we heard roman senators hand-wringing about the spreading revolt but there were no visuals that allowed the viewer to watch the revolt spread.

The 1960 verion had better dialogue with regard to the senatorial debates, with Olivier clearly masterful in his role as Crassus.

LOVE STORY

The relationship between Spartacus and Virminia was beautiful told in both versions, but the newer version better developed that union. For example, in the 1960 version there was no talk of marriage or chastity, but in the 2004 this was explored and developed.

OVERALL:

Both versions of Spartacus are great filss. The superior 2004 version benefits from numerous advances in the art of filmaking since the 1960 version was released. Both scripts were excellent, with a very slight edge given to the 1960 version. If you have choice watch the new version.