There isn't much to say about the newest incarnation of Chucky, except that maybe Billy Boyd shouldn't talk. To anyone. Ever. Again. And John Waters should randomly appear in more things.

Overall, the movie was funny. Chucky (Brad Dourif) has some really fantastic one liners, as usual and they even let Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly) get some great cracks in as well. A few of the jokes fell flat, which is often to be expected when dealing with one line cracks, but generally that audience seemed to like the comedy.

The visual jokes worked well too, namely, a long shot of Chucky, shadowed behind drapes, visibly masturbating that had the audience in stitches. They use the sperm to impregnate Tilly so that Glen can take its body when his parents change theirs as well.

Though I would call this more of a comedy than a horror flick, the kills were absolutely spectacular. They are as brutal and gory as the Child's Play series has ever had to offer. John Waters, the infamous and acclaimed cult director of Pink Flamingos and Cry-Baby plays a paparazzo who is stalking Jennifer Tilly (playing herself) in hopes of getting a juicy picture of her and her new beau Redman (as himself as well). Instead, he meets a fantastically grisly end in his dark room. A little sulfuric acid over the head will do a lot of damage. Redman is gruesomely disemboweled at the dinner table, treating the audience to a beautiful image of steaming intestines. There is also an absolutely awesome decapitation of a puppeteer in the early part of the movie, which results in a very funny scene with Tilly talking to it because she thinks it is a prop. Very, very funny.

Tilly is fantastically campy, both as Tiffany and herself. She specializes in screaming and running in high heels and it works really well for the over-the-top humor in the movie. Dourif is, in my humble opinion, one of THE BEST voice actors ever and he brings Chucky to life like no one else ever could. He delivers one-liners like no one else. Well, maybe second only to Robert Englund as Freddy Krueger, but that's up to debate. Billy Boyd was great at creating the eerie, yet endearingly child-like voice of Glen, Tiffany and Chucky's doll-child. If this is what Billy Boyd sounds like, keep him away from small children... and me.

The ending was pretty fantastic. The entire goal in the movie was for Tiffany and Chucky to transfer their soul into the bodies of Redman and Tilly. After Redman's death, they move on to Tilly's driver (Steve Lawton) and attempt to do the soul transfer quickly, but nothing goes right. Eventually, after Tilly gives birth to twins (forcing Glen to choose to be either a boy or girl, which he has been confused about) Chucky decides he doesn't want to be human and Glen/Glenda hacks him to pieces. Fade to black. We come back to see Jennifer Tilly's nanny complaining that Glenda scares her and that she wants to quit the job. Tilly agrees and then beats her to death with the Tiffany doll. We move outside and see a creepy girl and a very happy little boy, clearly Glen (the nice boy) and Glenda (the evil girl), so Glen/Glenda didn't have to choose what to be, he got it both ways. We then see Glen open an unmarked gift, inside is Chucky's severed arm which latches on to his throat. Fade to black with echoing Chucky laughter.

If that isn't a clever, soul transferring, doll-to-human ending, I don't know what is.