Okay picked up the new re-issue of FRIDAY THE 13TH in 3-D recently and felt I HAD to share this with other fans who are waffling on whether or not to pick this triple-dip up or not.

  First, let me say I have a copy of the old Japan-issued Polarized version (this requires the powered polarized glasses not the current red/blue paper things) and while it was a dubdown (the orig release in Japan was only on VHS) the 3-D was leaps and bounds better then this new release. Ok to be fair, I know it isnt very practical to release the old 3-D version in that format as it would require everyone to go out and spend at least $60-$130 on a pair of glasses to view it. So, with the recent release of some 3-D films in the new 3-D versions on home video(JOURNEY TO CENTER OF THE EARTH, POLAR EXPRESS etc) I figured it won't be too awful when redone in the red/blue format will it? The answer is both yes and no.

  First off this new re-issue of the film lays claim on the cover to be from an HD Source? Well, where is the Blu Ray then (Grrrrrrr). And this new print of the film is FILTHY DIRTY! I mean the old one in the box set was speckly and dirty, but this print is waaaaay granier and just plain AWFUL. Somehow they have managed to make the film look like a bad VHS dub down on dvd! Setting aside the dirty elements problem, the new 5.1 mix on the audio? Sorry compared it to the box set original audio mix, didn't notice a dang thing that was any different.

  But what of the 3-D you ask? How was that? Well, for the most part it offers some good 3-D dimension and does remind me a little of what it was like in the theater (I saw the film in 3-D back in 1983 at least 18-20 times) but not even close to the clarity. You see ghost images bleed off to the other parts of the image and its kinda messy. But the worst sin of all?! If you saw it originally in 3-D in theaters, you know how ultra cool the opening credit sequence is as it shoots out of the decapitated eye sockets of Mrs. Voorhees' head on the table. The credits literally shoot out and are right in front of your face (I do not exaggerate, this was waaaay better than any other 3-D movie has done before or after). Well what did Paramount decide to do? Well since the beg of PART 3 is a brief recap of the end of PART 2, they put a brief note onscreen that the beginning is not in 3-D. So the 3-D doesn't begin now until AFTER the credits are over!!!! In theaters, the 3-D begins with the shot of Amy Steel and BF outside out of the cabin (they are in front of it) and then we cut back to inside of cabin as Jason gets wakes and grabs his machete and gets up as we go to Mrs. Voorhees' head and the credits pop out of her eye sockets straight at you, out of the screen. All that is gone now, not even recreated for this 3-D version. Sad, very sad indeed. Lazy actually is a better word.

  Now you are wondering, how are the extras? Well, on this release we get a trailer for the 3-D version of the film that ran originally in theaters. And, err... thats it. You don't even get the actor audio commentary from the box set and this is a stand alone release asking you to buy it again?!?! Huh?

  So, in short, until we get that new Japanese 3-D home television technology over here, this 3-D version will have to do. Still, with the disappointments, one would have hoped for more pimped up extras, but seeing how it is Paramount (AKA cheap and no extras) its hardly surprising.

  Hope this helps some of you decide on this one. My opinion, rent it if you can and then quickly return it!