I have visited the site of this POW camp 3 times in Ganjanaburi, Thailand. Each year there is a memorial that reenacts the bombing with a light & firecracker show. The truth is that the bridge, actually rather short, was bombed by Allied planes - not by a bomb created by the prisoners. I also visited the war memorial museum there that had actual photos as well as drawings & written testimonials by the prisoners. They were emaciated, starved, covered in sores & dispirited. One prisoner wrote that the only relief they had from the sores was going into the river and having the fish feed off the scabs & blood. The Japanese officers were brutal, overworked the POW's and punished them harshly on a whim. I also visited the nearby POW cemetery that was full of Allied solders who died at this camp. I had watched this movie several times before going to Thailand & enjoyed it for what it was - it's well done & suspenseful and dealt with interesting ethical issues, such as the need to sacrifice one's personal achievement for the greater good. I wish the movie was promoted as pure fiction & set in another WWII site like China or the Philippines. I understand that movies often take real events & change the facts when making a movie but this is like depicting the Bataan Death March as a Parade! Unfortunately, the movie portrays the POW's as healthy,well-fed, with high morale, & able to negotiate working conditions with the Japanese as if the POW's were unionized, who initially sabotage the bridge-building without suffering the cruel response of the Japanese. In one scene, the hero POW, with a grin, insults the chief Japanese officer and the officer drives off looking embarrassed. Never would happen. The POW would be immediately put into some cruel cell or be killed on the spot. To depict the POW's as a carefree bunch, splashing & laughing in the river & having the power to demand human rights from the Japanese insult & disgrace the real POW's who suffered & died there, unable to receive human rights, & cruelly treated by their captors. BTW, the river is actually named Kwae like quack; Kwai means water buffalo.