This has been a great year for mystery on TVDVD: Two, count 'em, two seasons of Rockford (the Elvis of TV P.I.s); the late '80s revival of Columbo (the quintessential TV detective and spiritual father of Matlock, Monk, and Goren); Ironside (Burr was a presence that consumed the screen); and two of David E. Kelley's best -- The Practice and the quirky smalltown "cop" show Picket Fences (you can have your inane Ally McBeal and the ham-handed Boston Legal). But when I discovered Banacek was about to hit the shelves, I nearly threw an embolism of retro ecstacy. Before I became acquainted with James Scott Rockford, George Peppard was my gold standard for cool (I went through eighth grade in a turtleneck, no doubt sparking rumors of parental abuse and/or bohemian depression. While not as flashily eccentric as Mystery Movie cohorts Columbo or McCloud, Banacek staked out his own unique detectival territory: The "howdunit," or impossible crime -- in this case, theft on the grandest scale imaginable. Just as Columbo managed to mesmerize with two hours of dialogue-dominated plot, Banacek kept us guessing with a minimum of homicide (except for the occasional collateral murder). The solutions to these mini-movie mysteries were worthy of Ellery Queen or John Dickson Carr, and the path to them was usually littered with savory red herrings.

TV mystery scholars have noted that beyond Banacek's ethnic heritage and colorfully cryptic Polish proverbs, he lacked the larger-than-life persona of a Columbo or Ironside. But what grabbed me on rewatching the DVD that sailed right over my adolescent head was the well-concealed complexity of the character. Behind Banacek's urbane musings and womanizing, we see occasional flashes of his blue-collar upbringing (watch for the gold watch scene in Let's Hear it for a Living Legend -- a glimpse into the motivation behind Banacek's glee in besting insurance companies); a hard-edged sense of decency (he gives a voluntarily homeless mom unsolicited money for her child's milk along with an ascerbic comment on her rejection of material things); and a courtesy and respect for working men and women of all stripes. Only thing to regret here is the missing pilot, Detour to Nowhere, and the cool Quincy Jones Wednesday Mystery Movie theme

Now give me the first season of Harry O and at least a sampling of The Name of the Game, and I'll cheerfully lock myself in for the next two years.