this film is (rather unfairly) underrated.  i don't know why.  a lot of people will say it's a "taxi driver" retread, some will say that it's way too bleak, some will say it's far too laden about with industry potshots that only industry workers will get.  the truth is, however, this is a very funny movie.
first off, the humor here is either very dark or very unsettiling.  here is rupert pupkin, an obsessive comic stalking his idol, jerry langford.  rupert speaks to a cardboard cutout of jerry, goes to his office each and every day (except for the days where he gets kicked out), and even fantasises about him.  often his fantasies are interlaced with the film's reality and we see just how obsessive he is.  not only this, but his life outside of stalking jerry is similarly inept.  he is also obsessed with a bartender.  she loathes him, but still he persists.  luckily, she is forgiving, and the two set out for a weekend at jerry's home.  they are quickly kicked out, leaving both jerry and his almost-girlfriend detesting him.  feeling rejected, he finds solace in a psychopathic, similarly obsessed woman who waits outside of jerry's office building for him to walk by.
at this point, the film seems kind of depressing, but along the way there are droplets of black comedy and extremely strange comedy.  it is not a movie for all tastes.  some will find it far too dark, others will find it predictable, and others may not even understand the film period.  the truth is, the film is able to find humor in this darkness, and very funny humor it is.  witness the routine at the end that we have been awaiting rupert to put on.  witness rupert's obsessive, 'round the clock telephoning of jerry's office.  it's mean spirited, yes, but still just plain hilarious.
at the same time, though, the film is a very interesting character study.  the film's primary subject is rupert.  we learn his techniques, his relationships, and we ponder his obsessive nature.  deniro is also riveting in his performance as pupkin, dropping the tough-guy image for the untalented loner image.  he's hopeful and confident, hilariousy bad at what he does, and refuses to take "no" for an answer.  
overall: a good, if dark, comedy.