I grant you, the title really needs some work. Had it not been for Robert Carlyle, I would never have seen this film at all. Fortunately, he is, as always, capable of anything.

Carlyle plays Frank Keane, a widower still feeling a great deal of pain and guilt over his wife's suicide. He comes upon a horrible wreck and in calling 911 for Steve Mills (John Goodman), changes his own life forever. He is encouraged by the operator to keep Steve talking and so begins the journey into the past.

Steve is a recently released inmate who had promised to meet his grade school crush at the Marilyn Hotchkiss Ballroom Dancing & Charm School they both attended as young people. This was to happen on the 5th day, of the 5th month of the 5th year of the new millenium (or May 5, 2005).

Realizing he is not going to make his appointment, Steve implores Frank, whom he has only just met, to go in his place. To let his girl know he meant to be there. Once Frank decides to respect the dying man's wishes, the film goes back and forth between the ambulance where Steve tells him the story of Lisa (the girl) and Frank actually going to the school to find her.

He doesn't, but in attending the class he finds that he is still capable of joy, and love. I'm not entirely sure what people were complaining about as far as this film is concerned. Is this not what 'An Affair to Remember' is basically about. Certainly a different platform, but promising to meet someone years in the future has been done, many times. Why is this so unbelievable? Steve has been in prison for years. I am not surprised, nor do I find it unbelievable that he would focus on this one meeting.

One of the most heart wrenching moments in the film is when Steve asks Frank why his wife killed herself and he answers simply, "I don't know."

This movie is not about ballroom dancing, nor is it about death; it is about rebirth. A tale that reminds us even in the most dire of circumstances, when it appears everything we have has been ripped away, life will go on and it will get better. Marisa Tomei plays Meridith, who is clearly the love interest, but the way they go about creating the relationship between Meridith and Frank is realistic. Both of them have their own issues, and find they can deal with them through one another.

In the end, it's a beautifully told story that allows for healing. So few romantic drama's these days end well, and it's ridiculious. Happy endings can and do happen. I wish Hollywood would figure that out.