The first two episodes of season four were a really great start to the new season. However from that episode through episode 10, the show hit kind of a  rough patch. The episodes in a lot of ways seemed unimportant, or too insignificant to warrant any attention. For example, the storyline where Rory is looking for the perfect tree to sit under, and the whole Lorelai-Jason relationship, which seemed only to serve to kill time until Luke and Lorelai finally got together.

However, staring with episode 11 "In the Clamor at the Clangor" the season really started to turn around. Copying what another reviewer did, I am going to give you my rankings of each episode of the season on a scale of 1-5. However, my rankings are quite different from this reviewers:

1. Ballrooms and Biscotti- Rory finds out she must go to Yale a week earlier than she thought -4 stars

2. The Lorelais' First Day at Yale- Lorelai comforts Rory as she gets homesick at her first day in Yale- 5 stars

3. The Hobbit, the Sofa, and Digger Stiles- Lorelai and Sookie cater a Lord of the Rings party, where Sookie worries she won't be a good mother- 2 stars

4. Chicken or Beef?- The night before Dean's wedding to Lindsay Luke discovers that he might not fully be over Rory yet- 3 stars

5. The Fundamental Things Apply- Rory acts akwardly on her first date in college while Lorelai invites Luke over for movie night 2 stars

6. An Affair to Remember- Emily makes Lorelai and Sookie jump through hoops to cater one of her events, Kirk goes on a date with a girl who might actually like him.-3 stars

7. The Festival of Living Art- Lorelai is determined to be the Renoir girl when stars Hallow hosts the fetival of living art, Sookie gives birth- 3 stars

8. Die, Jerk- Rory angers a ballerina when she gives her a bad review- 1 stars

9. Ted Koppel's Big Night Out- At the Harvard/Yale game Emily discovers that Richard has been having secret meetings with his almost wife Pennalynn Lott, Lorelai finally agrees to go out with Jason- 3 stars

10. The Nanny and the Professor- Michel babysits for Sookie while Rory deals with the fact that Paris is now dating Professor Flemming- 1 star

11. In the Clamor and the Clangor- Luke and Lorelai decide to destroy the Church bells that are driving the town crazy- 4

stars

12. A Family Matter- Liz visits Luke in Stars Hallow, Lorelai shows Jason around Stars Hallow- 3 stars

13. Nag Hammadi is Where they Found the Gnostic Gospels- Luke gets drunk when Jess tells him he's a judgemental know-it-all, Luke gives Lorelai some earings Liz gave to him- 4 stars

14. The Incredible Sinking Lorelais- Unable to catch each other on the phone, Lorelai and Rory have melt downs and have to turn to Luke and Dean for comfort- 5 stars

15. Scene in a Mall- Emily has a melt down in a mall when Richard won't listen to her concerns- 4 stars

16. The Reigning Lorelai- Gran dies, leaving Lorelai to make the arrangements for her funeral.- 4 stars

17. Girls in Bikinis, Boys doin'the Twist- Rory and Paris have spring break in Florida, while Luke discovers that Nicole has been cheating on her- 4 stars

18. Tick, Tick, Tick, Boom!- Kirk hides Easter eggs in the square, Emily and Richard discover that Lorelai and Jason are going out- 4 stars

19. Afterboom- Luke files for divorce from Nicole, Lorelai breaks up with Jason after he decides to sue her father- 3 stars

20. Luke Can See her Face- After buying some self-help tapes,

Luke finally realizes that he should be with Lorelai, Lorelai, Sookie and Michel sleep in the zuchini patch- 5 stars

21. Last Week Fights, This Week Tights- Luke escorts Lorelai to Liz and TJ's wedding where they have thier first dance, Dean saves Rory from a bad date- 5 stars

22. Raincoats and Recipes- Luke and Lorelai finally kiss at The Dragonfly's test run, Rory and Dean have sex- 5 stars

Definatley worth the buy for any Gilmore Girl's fan. From episode 11 on this season is really great in my opinion.