"Gettysburg" brings one of the best Civil War novels ever written to colorful life. This is a movie about a battle, no doubt about it, and the filmakers have avoided trying to appeal to the widest range of people. Those looking for period romance should look elsewhere.
Gettysburg was the pivotal battle in the Eastern theatre of the Civil War, with the Federal army winning the only clear-cut victory they were to achieve after Malvern Hill. The movie follows five main characters:Union Brigadier General John Buford, Colonel Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain of the Union 20th Maine, rebel Brigadier General Lewis Armistead, rebel Lieutenant General James Longstreet, and rebel General Robert E. Lee. Through these men the story of the Battle of Gettysburg is told.
The filming is well done, but as the movie was orginally intended for release as a TV miniseries, the resolution is low. Reenactors were used to depict the two mighty armies who clashed in Pennsylania in July, 1863. They know their hobby: uniforms are meticulously accurate and the view of army life in camp and upon the field of glory feels right. That said, some of the reenactors are pretty overweight, and the Confederates especially lack that "lean and hungry" look that period sources describe.
Several key portions of the battle are covered in depth. The first day is probably the best done: Buford's skillful defense of the high ground to the south of Gettysburg, the rout of the Union right, and the death of General Reynolds are all shown, and the viewer feels the ebb and flow of the fight. The second day focuses on the action at Little Round Top, and that is all. This appraoch works well in the movie, but the climactic fight around the Peach Orchard, the Wheat Field, and Culp's Hill is overlooked. The third day gives up the chance to show us the clash of sabers as Custer charges Stuart's tired troopers and Kilpatrick sacrifices his men in a series of headlong charges against Confederate infantry. Instead, the movie makers choose to focus on Pickett's charge. It is VERY well done. Long lines of rebel infantry advance on the angle, and the enormity of their defeat is readily apparent.
The performances are all top-notch. Martin Sheen's Lee is not quite the charismatic leader of men that the real Lee was, but his agonizing over decisions and simple faith in God will help viewers to identify with the great man. John Buford is played extremely well by veteran Western actor Sam Elliot. But the best performances are turned in by Tom Berenger as Longstreet and Jeff Daniels as Chamberlain. 
Look for Ted Turner, playing a rebel officer, to get shot down during Pickett's charge, and Civil War filmmaker Ken Burns, as a Federal staff officer begging General Hancock to seek cover during the Confederate bombardment.