Tampopo, one of the most charming movies ever made,is a story about a beautiful apprenticeship in which a woman at a roadside noodleshop begs a truck driver passing through (whom she understands to be an expert) to  teach her how to be a great noodle chef. Sound absurd? Keep reading. 
The  plot line which concerns the training, aside from showing a culture in  which people find it noble to make sacrifices to help others become self  actualized, also exposes the viewer to the culture of the amateur in Japan  in which any citizen may have astoundingly subtle understanding of the  refinements of living...at one point, they fall in with a group of  vagabonds who rhapsodize about food and wine and donate their leader to the  pursuit of training Tampopo to make perfect noodles. The scene in which the  vagabonds sing a farewell to their teacher is sublime.
Punctuating the  plot are three "excursions" (almost like the rondo form in  music)which are  unrelated to the plot, but each of which consists of three  self sufficient little vignettes all having to do with eating. These  vignettes vary in tone from extremely funny, to joyful/carnal, erotic,  poignant, and bizarre.
Each vignette shows a different significance of  eating in Japanese culture. For example, the first vignette shows a group  of business men being led into a private room for lunch. It becomes clear  that the protocol involves the most senior person ordering first and  everyone else, pretending to be making up their own minds, ordering exactly  the same thing...until the most junior person is reached and the waiter is  all but ready to write down "Sole, consumme and a Heinecken" like  the others, when the junior employee stops and ponders (despite being  kicked under the table) and asks knowing questions about the way food is  prepared (Junior employee: "That's how it is prepared at  Taillevant"...waiter: "Our chef trained at Taillevant, you are  well informed, Sir".) The second vignette shows the erotic capabilty  of food...I rate this as one of my favorite sex scenes ...because it's not  heavy...it's wonderfully playful and imaginative.
The relation of life to  eating is a powerful unifying but various concept, skillfully worked by the  director Itami and by the the end of the movie, when you are watching a  close up of a baby nursing over the closing credits, you are certain that  you've seen something powerful about something that truly bounds our entire  life.
Beautiful!