...because it mainly sticks to its own, preaching to the converted in a handful of major urban areas instead going out into the heartland and interacting with the large majority of the population---its appeal only becomes narrower and narrower.

Ditto with Margaret Cho, I'm sorry to say.  I loved her first DVD concert, "I'm The One I Want"---the material was fresh and daring for the most part, despite the occasional maudlin detour into pop-psychology bathos ("poor me, they told me I was fat!").

However with each new DVD, Margaret seems to be mainly recycling the same old punchlines and hooks, and most worrisome of all, seemingly ALWAYS TO THE SAME ULTRA-FRIENDLY HOME AUDIENCE!!!

It reminds me a bit of GW Bush of all people---all of his appearances are carefully planned with the audience carefully prescreened and limited to enthusiastic Republican supporters.  The result being that Bush often appears to live inside a bubble and makes sense only to himself and his endless sea of stooges and ardent fans.

There is a annoying clubbiness about Cho's whole approach, which you can see in the first 5-10 minutes of these DVDs, when the camera gets in the face of her adoring fans standing in line, all of them gushing about how absolutely cool and bad-@ss Margaret is...ick!  So much narcissistic self-congratulation, and it all stinks of some vague desperation: why would she NEED to showcase all that validation at the beginning of her DVDs?  Does she feel that the viewer needs to be told how GREAT she is (or at least how great her fans think she is) before they watch her performance?  Or is it her way of fostering a sense of commonality and identity (see "clubbishness") in her fan base?

This is all such a shame, because it's obvious that Cho is blessed with immense comedic talent even when she's just phoning it in like she does here.

Margaret: why not tape a concert before an audience in oh, Topeka Kansas instead of your usual San Francisco or NYC fan base?  I'll bet you COULD make those Kansans laugh too if you really wanted.