The precursor to another fantastic BBC production (Elizabeth R. with Glenda Jackson), "The Six Wives of Henry VIII" chronicles the life of the volatile and controversial Tudor monarch. 6 series, written by 6 authors, showcase Henry VIII from a young boy of around 8, to the disease-riddled, corpulent and (rather) pitiful king of 55 (almost 56) upon his death.

Keith Michell plays the titular character to astounding perfection. Highlighting his extreme moodiness (when he was up, he was way UP, when he was down, he liked to BEHEAD), limitless power in his own kingdom, Michell's Henry VIII was a veritable enigma of a man and monarch. The casting choice of Michell was spot on, and the costuming/makeup departments must be commended for their close attention to detail. The aging process of Michell's King Hal is fantastic (I especially enjoyed the quite hefty Henry-in his later years-being hoisted onto his horse by a pulley system).

The women playing his wives are an especial treat. Annette Crosbie (Katherine of Aragon) and Dorothy Tutin (Anne Boleyn) may have been too mature looking to play a 15 and 19 year old respectively, but both are pitch perfect as they play these powerful women in their later years. Tutin's lightly accented English (which Anne Boleyn was noted for, due to her years spent in the courts of Austria and France) was quite a nice touch for the production and research teams.

Anne Stallybrass (Jane Seymour) truly captured Henry's 3rd queen's quiet and meek spirit. Speaking barely above a whisper, and averting her gaze constantly, she transforms herself into the plainest of Henry's consorts (although, supposedly, his most "beloved"-although that may have been due to the fact that her son, Edward VI, survived). Elvi Hale (Anne of Cleves) provides the most comic relief during her entire screen time. Utilizing a (ridiculous) German accent, her facial expressions belie her every emotion. I had a laughing fit when she views Henry in his "courtier's" garb for the first time and says "oh!!" Absolute hilarity.

Wife number five, Angela Pleasance (Catherine Howard), exhibits a bit of a mean streak against her housemates, and lies to her uncle, the Duke of Norfolk, about her virtue. The only wife of Henry VIII to actually "stray," Pleasance shows a fine maturity for such a young actress. Finally, Rosalie Crutchley (Catherine Parr) is a paragon of virtue, learning, and family life. The queen responsible for bringing Elizabeth I back into Henry's good graces, does not want to marry him, but does her duty, and finds herself extremely fond of her husband, and devastated (in her own way) upon his passing.

The BBC probably spared no expense (in 1973 currency) during the filming of "The Six Wives of Henry VIII," but the film does show the wear of time. Restoration would enhance the color and sound quality, but this is still a 4.5 star effort because of the extremely talented cast and the lovely detailed touches of the crew.