A woman runs through the snowy wilderness, chased by some unseen threat, as Edvard Grieg's "In The Hall Of The Mountain King" rises to it's climax, which effectively illustrates her increasing distress and danger level.

And so begins Dead Snow, an intense foreign film which only ever slows down to display a little bit of the character's personalities before the gruesome events occur again. The fact that it is subtitled does not detract anything from one's enjoyment of the film.

From then on we watch as seven Norwegian med students decide to spend their Easter vacation in an isolated cabin near Oksfjord. While they wait for the main guy's girlfriend to arrive, who actually owns the cabin, they decide to pass the time by drinking and setting up opportunities for possible hook-ups. The fun is soon spoiled by the arrival of a mysterious stranger, an older man who warns them of the evil history of the area.

It seems that during WWII, a sadistic Nazi commander named Colonel Herzog was in charge of the nearby Naval base, and under his reign the locals were robbed, tortured and murdered for three long years before they decided to exact their revenge. They attacked the Nazi's while they slept and managed to kill a great number of them. Herzog and many of his soldiers escaped into the frozen woods though, taking with them a fortune in gold, jewelry and coins.

The creepiness of the stranger, who goes nameless, and the fact that Vegard's girlfriend Sara has still not shown up by morning, leads the students to believe that something is definitely wrong with their vacation destination.

The suspense regarding who gets killed is fairly effective, and should keep you guessing, considering that one character who is absolutely squeamish at the sight of blood is forced to step up and commit brutally violent acts, and is responsible for the most shocking incident in the entire movie. To sum it up, this is one movie will be added to my must-watch list every October, alongside Trick `R' Treat, Halloween and Friday The 13th Part 3.