The cover of this DVD does a terrible job of preparing the viewers for what they're about to witness.  The cover is bright, cheery and green:  exactly what the movie is not.  People who come into this expected a follow-up to the Judy Garland film, complete with song and dance numbers, are going to be severely disappointed.  And possibly a little traumatized.  Nonetheless, this is a very good movie...just not the sort of thing most people envision when they think about Oz.

Our story begins with Dorothy--an actual child this time, not a teenager like Judy Garland--still obsessing over the "imaginary" world of Oz.  She's carted off to a mental asylum by her concerned but misguided aunt and uncle, where she comes within a hairsbreadth of being subjected to primitive electroshock therapy from a creepy-looking machine.  The opening scenes are filled with disturbing, dreary images of a prison-like mental asylum run by a deranged doctor...and this pretty much sets the tone for the entire movie.  Even Dorothy's escape into Oz doesn't brighten her life much, as she's confronted with an almost post-apocalyptic vision of a desolate world with a run-down Yellow Brick Road and an empty city.  Her friends are nowhere to be found.

The villains in this movie are genuinely scary.  Mombi collects severed heads and switches them with her own.  The Nome King is a rock-monster who swallows people whole.  Despite all this darkness, however, there are moments of poignant sweetness in Dorothy's friendships with Jack, Tiktok, and the Gump.  And Belinda the talking chicken provides some welcome bits of comic relief without descending too far into silliness.

I remember seeing this movie as a small child and being thoroughly freaked out by it, but the images and characters stayed with me over the years.  Seeing it again as an adult, I was able to appreciate it as a unique artistic vision.  Though it's really not for small children, it's still a remarkable story in its own right.  It will inevitably be compared to the original Oz movie and expected to "follow in its footsteps," but as the movie isn't intended as a direct sequel, such comparisons aren't really fair.

Definitely worth a watch.  Just keep an open mind.