In Oliver Stone's 1999 release, Any Given Sunday, the audience attempts to follow the fumbles and follies of the fictitious Miami Sharks Pro-football team. Cameron Diaz acts as the owner of the dilapidated Shark franchise, a graduate of Cornell University, and daughter of the original owner of the Sharks. Her father, played by actor Charlton Heston, had a relationship with the head coach D'Amato, played by Al Pacino, where they negotiated contracts by "having a beer and shaking hands". Heston's influential cameos in the film led Stone to compare the game of football with Greek gladiators by inserting clips of Ben Hur into the film. Within the first ten minutes you see the fumbling Sharks go through their first and second string quarterbacks, leaving third string quarterback, Jamie Foxx, fumbling for his helmet while trying to remove himself from the bench. At this time the audience sees the beginning of the athletic trainer's true colors, played by James Woods, as he instructs his associates not to touch any of the injured athletes until he gets to the training room. It is there where you understand that he, along with Diaz, and Foxx, will somehow try to manage to throw the remainder of the Shark's season out of bounds.

 Although much of the film is injected, much like a chicken on a poultry farm, with booming Rap music, clips of LL Cool J, and fictitious commercials to break up the monotony of the nearly three hour movie, the film somehow manages to have a flow. It flows right into the major theme of what to do with an aging star quarterback, plagued with multiple injuries, played by Dennis Quaid and accompanied by his wife played by Lauren Holly, and an up and coming hot rod that needs to get his licks before he tears the remaining pieces of the franchise apart. If Stone were to remove some of the unnecessary footage of a vomiting, arrogant, up and coming quarterback, played by Foxx, the movie could be cut almost in half, therefor helping the film to achieve some sort of theatrical award or nomination.

 All in all, if the viewer can overlook some unessential nudity, graphic language, vial drug use, and violence that is not usually associated even with the game of football, the viewer might enjoy this film. Along with the thought that they manage to stay with the film between all the out takes and multiple conflicts between characters. This film is definitely for a more masculine audience, as women seem to take the back seat and are viewed only as "trophies".