I wanted to like this film.  The idea of Crowe & Washington working together again (remember VIRTUOSITY?) with Ridley Scott directing the real life story of Frank Lucas seemed too good to pass up.  I just wish I avoided this film as it was a complete waste of my time.

LOCATION: The only reason I start with this is because its the first thing I noticed in the film.  If you're a NYer (and I have been all my life) you'll recognize locations in films that you've either driven past, walked to or view from a distance. Opening shot involving the dirty police is right by the famous Domino Sugar Plant in Bklyn right by the Williamsburg Bridge, meanwhile the description on the bottom of the screen states New Jersey.  Already, the film has me worried.

Movie takes place in 1970s Harlem.  Sh!#hole doesn't begin to describe the place in those days (just look at blaxploitation films SUPERFLY & SHAFT to see what it looked like so long ago).  Harlem looks pretty here and that also took me out of the picture.

Look, I know they film movies within "NY" in Toronto (FRINGE TV Show) or Australia (The Matrix Trilogy) but I thought that the film was going for authenticity and it obviously didn't show.  This began the descent of my giddiness for a film I had high hopes for.

STORY: The story involves the rise and fall of Harlem Kingpin Frank Lucas.  You get introduced to his life, the struggles that come with being a gangster / drug lord, police interaction, etc.  I couldn't get into Frank Lucas.  I didn't feel like he was a threat or smart.  If anything, he seemed lucky.  I just couldn't connect to this character.  Crowe's cop subplot was useless.  The subplot was designed to give Crowe's character humanity but it felt more like filler than anything else.  The only interesting aspect of the story was the smuggling of the drugs. Other than that, I struggled like crazy to stay with this film.  That alone should have told me to bail the theater.

As I continued to watch this film, I couldn't help but feel that I've seen other films with similar plots had turned out a better product: Godfather I & II, GOODFELLAS, SCARFACE, CASINO, DONNIE BRASCO, BLOW, CITY OF GOD and BOYS IN THE HOOD.  These films were able to transport viewers to a world that no longer exists (or, perhaps, still does).  They allow you to be a fly on the wall & see everything for what it is.  This particular film did none of that for me.

ACTING:  Denzel was as stiff as his crippled character in THE BONE COLLECTOR and most of his co stars are just as bad.  Crowe's bklyn accent kept slipping due to his aussie accent. I thought this was an A list film so why am I seeing C list acting?  The only one that nails it is Josh Brolin who plays scumbag cop like nobody's business (reminded me of my dad - LOL!).  He takes this secondary role and eleveates it to a level that so called stars couldn't reach.  I can't wait to see him in meatier roles / starring roles like this one in the near future.

DIRECTING: There's a reason why Ridley Scott's current films haven't been doing so well.  Other than ALIEN, BLADE RUNNER, LEGEND or GLADIATOR, he hasn't been doing great.  Much like this film, the hype is bigger than the substance.

OVERALL: You want to see a good gangster film?  See the films I listed in the STORY section.  If you want to see more on the drug trade in the 70s / 80s, I high recommend the documentaries COCAINE COWBOYS (based on the Miami drug trade that inspired movies like SCARFACE) and MR. UNTOUCHABLE (the story of Harlem Kingpin Nicky Barnes.  He tells his own story to the viewer along with his lieutenants and the cops that busted him).