This movie is a true American tale. Although the Department Store originated in Europe, American cities, in their heyday, took it to a whole new level. In an era long before Malls, shoppers whether they lived in city, suburb, or country, would travel to their nearest downtown to do their shopping at one of these grand emporiums. It did not matter whether it was Detroit (JL Hudson), Philadelphia (John Wanamaker), Boston (Jordan Marsh), Chicago (Marshal Feild), every city had it's signature store and it was as much an issue of civic pride as the baseball team was. When this movie was released (1947), Manhattan was to home to over one dozen grand department stores.

Even small cities had the "it" store such as; Hess's in Allentown, Bergner's in Peoria, Pourteous in Portland, and so on.

Needless to say these icons really shined at Christmas, and this movie took it's inspiration from two of the most competitive of NYC's grand stores, Gimbels (closed since 1986), and still thriving Macy's. Macy's holds it's famous Thanksgiving Day Parade in NYC (Gimbels was in Philly), and after the original Macy's Santa was found to be celebrating a wee bit too much, Edmund Gwenn steps onto the scene as THE Kris Kringle.

Maureen O'Hara plays the haried Macy's Personel Manager (it was not called "HR" yet), and she is found to be a bitter divorcee, and single parent (yes, even then people got divorced, and were single parents).  John Payne courts her, and I guess you could say wants to rescue her, and Natalie Wood from their very insular world.

However in the middle of all this Macy's Santa winds up sending parents to,  horrors, of horrors,  Gimbels for better skates (and other toys), and for that matter any other store if Macy's does not have it better, or cheaper.  Needless to say Macy's Toy Buyer freaks out big time, and Santa winds up in a court battle over his sanity.

It all works out in the end, and if ever there is a time for a good old fashioned Hollywood ending it's Christmas time.

A true American tale that can't make you feel anything, but good!