I remember the first time I heard about a show based on the mediocre (and seemingly made-for-tv) movie "Buffy the Vampire Slayer." I was among the rest of the critics thinking how stupid it was going to be and how it wasn't going to last long. I enjoyed the movie to an extent but I couldn't see how it could be formatted into an hour long weekly program on television. I sat down as the show began and was still skeptical, but for some reason I was pretty enthusiastic. I watched as a pretty blonde girl and her boy-toy sneaked into a high school at night to cause some mischief. It's predictable, the dudes wants to bite her. He's a vampire, she's gonna start screaming.

Complete opposite.

From then on, I was hooked. I never missed an episode. I laughed, I cried, I laughed, I laughed, and I cried. Now that I look back on it, the first season was really lacking in the graphics and presentation (including the god-awful stories.. preying mantis'??), but back then it was groundbreaking. A show about a beautiful blonde SoCal chick who can kick some serious ass was definitely going to be on my TV every week.

There's some sort of magic that exudes from this show. Whether it's Joss Whedon's genius, the alluring appeal of the fresh actors who portray their characters perfectly, or the cast of writers who deliver gut-busting humor and then heartstring-tugging drama. I still can't figure out exactly what I love about it, but I can basically sum it up to it being just perfect. Perfect in the sense that I am entertained when I watch it, I get into the stories, and the fact that it's not perfect. There's something so realistic about it, and that's funny to say about a show like this. But it really is probably the most realistic thing that has ever been on tv and will be.

For seven years, I felt like this was my family. I was with them through everything and I truly felt a part of this extraordinary group. I was honored to be there, too.

With all the critics and people who don't understand this show, there are still fans like me. Who own these DVDs and constantly watch them over and over; just because our show has ended, doesn't mean our fandom does. Or that Buffy does. Or Faith, Willow, Giles, Xander... They live on in our memories. Some of us write our own stories of what they are doing, and some of us read books like "Queen of the Slayers" that is a wonderful recapture immediately following the devistation of the Sunnydale Hellmouth. It is an entrancing read, and gives us ideas for where our heroes are right now. That is all we can do, until Joss Whedon comes back and shows us himself.

Until then, I will continue watching Buffy the Vampire Slayer like I always have. I will probably burn up DVD players with as much as I watch it. But it is a PART OF ME that I can never forget or let go.

It never leaves.