In the Scandinavian countries, there is a hoary dish called lutefisk, a dried cod later inebriated with water to rinse out the lye from its preserving. Its origin lay in Viking times, when the women dried the cod, drove away insects with lye, and then revivified it by soaking it in a potash solution, followed by a vigorous boiling. To the Scands, this stinky dish is a beloved offering, served with melted butter. It is an acquired taste.

What we have here is the lutefisk version of MF. I thoroughly adore it. Unfortunately, most of the productions we see these days are cast as revivals of the Classic Period. Mozart was no slave to this era, you will remember, and so he ventured into mythology. Why deny the folklore? Why make MF chipper to the point of denying its mythological origins? And this is the value of Bergman's production.

Why settle for a Queen of the Night and a Sorastro whose seeming causes might be so mundane as to be candidates for Judge Judy? Unfortunately, that's the way most productions turn out. Instead, Bergman draws out the darkness of the encounter, recalling the arctic pantheon which passed to Germanic mythology. In this sense, it is more seminal than Wagner.

Granted, it's a darker MF than one wants to see. But it's more honest to the original production Mozart had in mind and likely produced.

As for complaints about the faces in the audience: Relax. Remember that Mozart in his poverty wrote opera in an era when it was crowd pleasing entertainment, the "interactive" stuff of its day, in which the singers beckoned audience response. Talk about "Oklahoma!" In this light, Bergman should come off as very conservative. My complaint would be that he didn't make those faces even more emphatic, showing expressions of wonder or disagreement, as opposed to such dead pan mugs.

Speaking of faces, what a Papageno, corn bred from down on the farm! And the Three Spirits cast as kids are a joy, rather than middle aged women imitating the ethereal voices Mozart scored. It's in the spirit of the work, to contrast lighter voices, after all, with the heavies.

What a fine work. And how grateful we should be for Bergman's darker understanding, finally equalling what Mozart has in mind. I'm no partisan, you understand, as there are other fine productions, with wonderful voices and solos.

Go buy it, already. Shop around on Amazon for a good price as this DVD is not greatly sought.