Virtually all of Fox's DVD releases are both eargerly awaited and very professionally produced. Seriously.

However, after producing several separate less-than-pristine quality releases on DVD over recent years both here as well as overseas Countries (also the earlier US Laserdisk that was not full width anyway - i.e. 2.55:1 when it was less than 2.35:1 on the disk) and none with any extras except re-release trailers, one would expect or at least pray, that  Twentieth Century Fox would now, wery belatedly,  pull out all of its guns for a major long-awaited restored version of its initial timeless CINEMASCOPE production.
Very bad news indeed for Worldwide fans of this  major film from the beginnig of the "Modern" Widescreen age!
And why, please, are all the extras not on both the normal as well as the BluRay versions.
Do we have to purchase a new machine just to access everything being released on the BluRay disc???
I GUESS WE DO!!!
The restored version of THE ROBE deserved a Two Disc release including both Wide and Flat versions of the film, as well as repros on the disc of Lobby Cards, Photos, Posters, Campaign Book as well as the mooted Extras.

A Commentary or some involvement by the wonderful Jean Simmons would be priceless too.

THE ROBE was a Landmark film in 1953. And FOX's biggest earner ever at that time.

I for one would be more than happy to pay an inflated price for a relevant release.

Eric GLASBY  Australia

26th MARCH, 2009 - UPDATE TO ORIGINAL COMMENTS PRE-RELEASE OF THE ROBE.

THE ROBE (Standard DVD Special Edition) arrived from the US yesterday and the BIG event was last evening!  It certainly blew the cobwebs off any possible forboding for the actual film. (Apart from the lack of availabilty of the full FLAT version as a very desirable extra).

I had recently read this month's  US Forum where the people from Twentieth Century Fox provided a fascinating insight into the background of work which resulted in such a pristine copy being available at long last. They should be VERY proud of what they have achieved and given us.

It may be arguable that THE ROBE never looked or sounded this good, even on original release.

The incredible amount of work that was necessary to "restore" and replace parts of the original  negative will be much appreciated by many people around the World.

An essay, or even a book like the invaluable one that Ronald Haver wrote on his restoration of A STAR IS BORN would be  much sought after if  such could be produced.

You cannot underestimate the entertainment value and longivity of the films of that era, also the fascination they hold for several generations of fans.

My viewing last night on a big screen, certainly was, as another reviewer stated: "an exhilerating experience".

Regarding the DVD Extras, sadly, the original Lobby Cards do seem to have been "lost" as well as the original Campaign Book (as another person noted) and I cannot locate "THE CINEMASCOPE STORY" Featurette on the Disc, although the back of the packet insert says it is included.

The incredible amount of "extras" noted for the BluRay Disc by another Reviewer dictates that THE ROBE will become, eventually, my initial BluRay purchase!

How could one resist the thought.

Apart from the absence of the FLAT version of THE ROBE, perhaps at least, an Insert could have been placed within the packaging of the Special Edition noting the Chapters and other background information like previous Fox releases boasted in some of the releases of 2007 and 2008. In those, a cardboard slipcase was also available with original Poster Art - these editions would now be true Collector's items.

A SPECIAL NOTE must be made of the singular but important live appearance of one of the surviving cast, Jay Robinson, in the excellent "Making Of" Featurette. Why this Actor was not nominated for Best Supporting Actor is a mystery - he provided much of the film's "power" in a briiliant portrayal. Great to see him recall the filming.

Eric GLASBY  AUSTRALIA