Years ago, I came across the college film THX1138 by George Lucas. It was available online, matched with the release of the Hollywood version. I was very interested, as this was the entry ticket that Lucas used to begin his illustrious film career. The college film was quite a bit lower in production values than the professional, but it did contain all the elements of his later version. At that time, I decided to purchase the regular DVD and watched it on my large screen HD TV. I did enjoy it, but many of the films elements were puzzling to me. The film shows a Future World underground, totally integrated into androgenous, Government directed work and living, closely and totally controlled to avoid all individuality. Drugs are used to eliminate any sexuality and sedate workers to improve productivity and safety. I won't spoil the ending, but there is action, and interesting scenes where they show the confusion of the lead, (THX1138) when his "roomate" replaces his tranquilizers with a different drug. The Government watches his actions and arrests him and he is put into an enviroment that is totally white, without any visual landmarks to orient oneself. He escapes, followed by silver Police Robots that are programmed to pursue him as long as it remains a predetermined, reasonable cost in relation to his offense. The most interesting thing about this video for me, was that I thought I knew the film, inside and out, but with the extreme clarity of the BluRay Technology, I found many of my "puzzling elements" were just the fact that I could now actually see what was happening in the backround. As an example, THX1138 worked at a console with remote control handling of highly radioactive power sources that he would place in slots , but I never actually saw what he was working on. with this clarity, I could see he was putting power sources in robots that he was helping to build. The effect made the film much more real and I appreciated the genius of Lucas all the more. If you are a tech nerd, you will enjoy this film, or if not, just give it a try, and roll with all the action.