The true love story and beautiful scenary shots. No wonder it was directed by Zhang, Yimou, the best director in China, who was originally studied Cinamic Choreagraphy (poor spelling?) then later became actor and director. I seldom was moved to tears by any movies, being a man, but not for this one, I have watched many times, each time was fascinated and attracted by the colorful landscape and beautiful actress Zhang, Ziyi.
Here is the Time Asia Magazine exclusive interview about Yimou and Ziyi's new movie, "Hero" with other superstars, Jet Li, Maggie Cheung and Tony Leung. You won't see it before the geginning of next year. But I bet it will be another smash hit in the world. (...)
It was a cover story and iterviews with all the major casts and directors. The following is the pasted interviews about Ziyi by Yimou:
Time: You told us that Zhang Ziyi feels a lot broader to you as an actress than she did when you were working on The Road Home with her. Does she now give you that same sense of being able to wrap a scene in one or two takes that you talked about with regard to Maggie Cheung and Tony Leung? Or does she still need a lot more cajoling to achieve the kind of performance you want?
Zhang: On this film, she's almost there. In the past, I had to spend a lot of time talking through each shot with her. Now she catches on much more quickly. Of course, she doesn't have the variety of experience of Tony or Maggie. She's still young. But she's got the ability.
Time: Do you think that's a function of her increased familiarity with your demands on her as an actress? Is it that she simply has a better sense of what you want from her in a performance?
Zhang Yimou: Partially, yes. But it's just as much to do with the development of her craft as an actress. I'll give you an example. When we were making The Road Home, there were several times in the film when she needed to cry. And as far as I was concerned these were crucially important parts of the movie. I'd call for quiet on the set. There had to be total silence, because crying in front of so many people is not easy. I knew we could only do one take. The lights, the film, everything had to be perfect, because I was afraid that on the second or third takes the tears wouldn't come, or the acting wouldn't seem sincere. But on this film, she's been amazing. We have technical problems all time. There's always one reason or another to re-shoot the scene. We're doing five or six takes for every shot. And she cries on command. It only takes her a few seconds to get in and out of character. It has surprised and impressed me. This is real change in Ziyi's acting. Now if I have to shoot her crying, I'm not afraid of shooting multiple takes, because there's always a possibility that the last take will be the best one. Maggie's got the same talent. And I've caught Ziyi studying her performance very intently. It's a smart move. There's a lot Maggie can teach her.