First and foremost, if you are interested in Samkhya Philosophy / Yogic self-cultivation and death and dying, this film was pretty much made for you.  If not, you may be disappointed.  Please do a modicum of research on this topic before watching as it will make the entire premise of the film more understandable.  For example, you'll notice that no one knows who or what God is at this stage, which just follows suit with the philosophy.  Divine interaction in the afterlife occurs more intimately at the karana and parusha realms.  I my opinion, this film follows the philosophy to a T, so in this sense I think the movie is spot on.  I get the feeling that many reviewed this move projecting values upon it that were never there in the first place.

My biggest concern with this movie is that the casting is absolutely horrible.  I mean just awful!  To boot, the writing seemed just sorta tossed together.  It's as if they had this great idea and nifty special effects, but then just figured that if they got a big name star, the rest would just take care of itself.  Well, it didn't.

Robin Williams plays a static, overly impulsive and stubborn man who seems to spout useless clich&eacute;s whenever given the chance.  His daughter is pretty much stoic and his son seems a bit out of his league.  The only believable character is his wife.  As I'm not a big fan of Cuba Gooding jr. I don't feel my commentary on his lack-luster and spastic performance is very meaningful.

Without getting too much into the plot, how the after life functions seems right on.  In the film, Williams is met by a spirit guide, allowed to make his peace with this life and then move on to the astral dimension where imagination and creativity reign.  As we find out, he's not very good at it at first.  Also, the view on personal hell is spot on in my book too.  Some of the more broad metaphysical assumption seem a little contrived, like the whole needing a guide to find someone, seemed a little forced, but it added to the plot a bit.

I'll give this film a four stars as I feel that it followed its own philosophy quite well and because I feel it to be good when alternative (pronounced, "non-Christian") views of the afterlife are made accessible to the public.  I'm still on the fence about giving it three due to the terrible acting and script, but the visual beauty of some scenes seals the deal at four.