Liam Neeson impresses all in Taken. When he took part in this film, he was around 55-56 years of age, and to see someone as old as him in good, fit condition to perform some of the stunts...it's quite an amazing feat. He plays a retired CIA agent, trying to reconnect with his daughter that the stressful job has kept him away from for many years. If there's one thing Bryan Mills (Neeson) hasn't missed, however, is his daughter Kim's (Maggie Grace) birthday. Every year, no matter what, he'd be there, he'd buy her a gift. Mills had split with his wife, who had re-married into a rich family, and Kim's been under their custody. Following her 17th birthday party, Kim wanted to go see a band tour in Europe, and reluctantly, Bryan agrees.

This is where things get interesting. It reminds me of the game, Heavy Rain's tagline, "How far would you go for the ones you love?" During the trip, Kim and her friend Amanda get kidnapped by a crime organization specializing in drugs and extortion of female teenagers. Luckily for Kim, she was on the phone with her father at the time of the kidnapping, and managed to give him a few key details on the situation, clues in which he uses to find her. The action gets intense as the film goes on, with car chases, hand-to-hand combat, and shoot-outs, in typical action format. What makes this film stand out more than the generic action 'X' films, though, is the goals and acting performances. The plot helps back up Neeson's edge to find the daughter, showing that he'd do whatever it took to get her back, including shooting a former friend's wife...pretty crazy, but you can't help but side with Neeson's character, I'm sure any parent who has even but an ounce of care for their children would do the same if in that particular situation.

I know action films include Supermen, and Neeson plays a Superman here, but the badassness of it all overshadows the impossible bits, heh. I really liked the plot of this movie. It shows possibilities, in today's world, I wouldn't be surprised if extortion of this caliber has occurred. But really, Neeson's perfomance is phenomonal, and this film has even appealed to non-action fans that I've shown it too. Highly recommend it. I'd give it a perfect score but I was slightly disappointed by the lack of human flaw in the movie. Still, superb action-packed, suspense-thriller.