Synopsis:
Spaceballs follows Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga), running away from a wedding she doesn't want to go through with because she doesn't love the groom. She is captured by the notorious spaceballs in a plot to steal all the air from her home planet.  Luckily, she is rescued in the nick of time by Lone Star (Bill Pullman) and his side-kick Barf (Jon Candy), a mog, half man, half dog and his own best friend.  They are chased by the Spaceballs, led by Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis), a pint sized Darth Vader wannabe.  Add Mel Brooks styled comedy and satirical movie references and you have Spaceballs.
About the Movie
Spaceballs is easily one of the most entertaining Sci-fi spoofs ever made.  Mel Brook's films have a way of never taking themselves too seriously.  This film certainly doesn't, and it works wonders on the gut. There's a sort of comic genius in Spaceballs, and it's hard to know why it works so well.
Spaceballs makes fun of the entire Sci-fi genre, from Star Wars, the Alien movies, Planet of the Apes, to Star Trek and other classic sci-fi fare.  What makes it so entertaining is that it combines elements of all of these, one-liners, exaggerations, sight joke, and twists on elements in the movies it is lampooning, to make a solid story line that holds together while at the same time being extremely funny.  
While the comedic writing certainly contributes to what makes this film so good, the best aspect of this film is the cast.  Somehow, every actor manages to have perfect comic timing (though film editing undoubtedly helps). The cast is led by several great comic actors, including the late John Candy, Rick Moranis, George Wyner and Mel Brooks himself.  
Rick Moranis is probably the most notable of the bunch, the perfect casting choice for a glasses wearing caricature of Darth Vader.  Watching him trot around the Spaceball ship in that oversized Vader helmet is hilarious, as he brings a sort of goofy pretentiousness to the role. He is easily the star of the film, though by no means the only one.
Dick Van Patton and Joan Rivers also play major roles if the film, as Princess Vespa's Father and the voice of Vespa's personal droid (modeled after C3PO of Star Wars), respectively.  Joan Rivers is perfect in her role, her gravely New York accent is so incongruent from what we'd expect from a brass colored droid. 
If you love Sci-fi or slapstick comedies, you'll probably enjoy this one. It's a delight to watch and pretty darn funny.
About the DVD
"Spaceballs: the DVD" comes in a hard case on a double sided DVD with both widescreen and fullscreen versions of the film. The case itself contains a two page leaflet that gives a few interesting production notes about the movie.
The picture and sound quality of this release are both pretty good.  The animated menus are humorous and are among the best of the features of the DVD.  The movie is translated into French and Spanish and has French and Spanish subtitles.  Strangely enough, there are no English subtitles.
For special features, the DVD comes with a short vintage featurette about the making of the movie, and a commentary by Mel Brooks.  The featurette is the "behind the scenes" type that was often released on TV shortly before a movie comes out. It contains a few actor interviews that give the sort of congratulatory remarks towards the director that are common in these sort of featurettes.  Over all it's rather unexciting and doesn't provide much entertainment or information about the film.
The director's commentary appears to be the one that originally came with the Laserdisc release of this film in the late 80's and early 90's.  If you actually happen to be one of the few people who had this movie on laserdisc, you'll find nothing new here.  
As far as commentaries go, this one, done by Director Mel Brooks is mediocre at best. Directors who make commentaries should really watch the movie at least once BEFORE they make the commentary.  It's clear that Brooks hadn't seen the movie in years, and it hurts the commentary's quality.
Brooks spends most of the time telling us who the actors are (repeatedly), complimenting them for their senses of humor and laughing at the in movie jokes.  If that's what you like in a commentary, great, but I would have preferred a more meaty information about the production. There is some of this in the commentary, but not a lot.  
Bottom Line: A 5 star movie on a 3 star DVD release. 4 Stars.  Definitely worth picking up.