So, why if i say better and better do I now all of a sudden hate the Sci-Fi channel, well because after wrapping up season 3 (probably the greatest single season of any show ever) I can not see how cost alone would possibly have this show cancelled. Obviously this show was not cheap to produce, but with knowledge of releases to DVD seasons (which by 2004 were becomming more and more popular) you would likely have movie deals, and advertisng rights on that alone could have made gobs of money. Well enough ranting let me tell you about sseson 3.
\
I earlier called this season the greatest, and let me explain why, the show at this point has built a tension between the characters (most notably John and Aeryn, this one is tangible, and at the end of season 2, John is mildly responsible  (at least in his head) for Aeryn's death. I am a guy and most of the times do not go for the overly romantic story arc's shows ride. But in Season 3, I am rooting for them, really pulling that somehow it will all work, and for a while it does...kinda. They have 2 John's not a cloned John, but literally 2, same thoughts backrounds, lives, feelings, and the sequences on board Talyn are some of the most emotionally gripping Television, movie, book, story, etc ever in history. Your heart is grabbed by them and then smashed and destroyed by the end. This season does more than tell a story, amd invite you for a ride. It grabs you from the first episode and pulls you on board Moya and Talyn.

So you think this season is just the John and Aeryn show, not even close. The stories behind Crais, Scorpious, the loss of a character, the addition of others. D'Argo, and Chiana. This season is mind numbingly good. I feel get a few people with financial backing to watch this season, and you could have had many more seasons, movies, and so on.

Maybe its a dream, and as we hear from another new character (not all dreams are realized) but there has to be a way. Funding from bake sales, collections from fans, studios, Henson, there has to be something to give us one more shot. I know it's not likely to happen, but at least I still have season 4 and PK wars to go. go to Watchfarscape.com...voice an opinion...