Finger of God takes an unexpected approach to God-- through the supernatural. In the modern age where people rely on science and reason to explain and justify actions, filmmaker Darren Wilson decides to see whether or not miracles still happen today by looking at the local church, the American church and all around the world-- Mozambique, China, Bulgaria-- to see how God is moving through miracles. In the footage, Wilson shows supernatural events like the deaf hearing, golden teeth growing, resurrection or gold dust appearing because Christians have prayed for them.

To be honest, the actual footage of the film is not great, though the approach was tactfully thought out. The unfortunate limited budget that Wilson had to work with ($20,000) made it hard for him to really film the miracle itself happening. Very often, he would just show things "happen" and not the actual process of how it happened, though I assume that skeptics will always find ways to try explain how the miracles do not occur anyways, so I'm not sure how big of a barrier the bad quality filming may have been. It's just that it can be argued strongly that a lot of the footage was staged or just a coincidence, so it really is a movie that relies on faith (though I guess the bad quality of the filming lends to credibility that the movie is probably not staged, because that would require way too much money).

If you remain a skeptic throughout the entire film, you will find only find frustration by watching this film. However, you will enjoy this movie if you have faith and open your heart and try to see past the technological imperfections of the film and see the God working behind the prayers of the people. If you sincerely believe the miracles are from God and your heart is softened, the film becomes extremely powerful in increasing a person's faith because seeing God work in a physical way is always extremely encouraging and just shows His power and might. It is encouraging to all of us to see how God is working around the world in such beautiful and dynamic ways!