It's good to see this collection released. Hammer Studios seldom had much of a budget to work with but they had a core group of talented people who brought a sense of style to what they did. Their period sets were never completely accurate but they had a distinctive look. Their cinematography was often stunning. Most importantly they had the ability to tell a story by making the eye follow it rather than by blowing it past the viewer. All of the films have been restored beautifully and show these facets to their fullest advantage.

Hammer also had a group of actors who were (and still are) largely unknown outside of the U.K. There were some notable exceptions though. One was the late Oliver Reed who appears in three of these films. Another was Peter Cushing. People seeing his work for the first time will be getting a look at one of the great stylists of the last century. This man could convey sweeping shifts in emotion with just the slightest variation in his manner. He was also a charismatic performer who brought flair, individualism and an immense amount of professionalism to his craft. There has never been, and likely never will be, enough actors of his sort.

Brides of Dracula ****

Dracula never makes an appearance in this film but that's no reason to avoid it. Peter Cushing is splendid as Van Helsing. David Peel matches him step for step as the villain of the piece and Martita Hunt gives a stunning performance as the mother of the cursed youth. Yvonne Monlaur (as the Baron's intended victim) isn't as strong but that's mostly because her character wasn't given as much depth as the other principals. The story flows decently and the action scenes are strong. The film (now restored to its original aspect ratio) is a feast for the eyes.

The Curse of the Werewolf ***

Anyone who hasn't seen this picture already is apt to wonder if the right movie has been put on the disc-it takes that long to really get going. The film's climax is worth the wait though. Oliver Reed (once he's finally introduced) gives a moving and chilling portrayal of the stricken young man. The supporting cast is solid and the make-up job for the creature is good enough that it stands the test of time well.

The Phantom of the Opera ****

This is an excellent version of this story, far superior to the one filmed in 1940, and even solid when compared to the 1925 classic. Herbert Lom gives a strong performance as the title character. His performance is supported by strong work from Heather Sears and Edward De Souza and nicely countered by a classic turn from Michael Gough. The story is told neatly and the look of the film is brilliant. The lighting is not as good as what was set up for "Brides of Dracula" and the overall "finish" is less lustrous (because the studio used Eastman Color rather than Technicolor) but it's still a fine example of the visual flair Hammer brought to the medium.

Paranoiac ****

Oliver Reed is cast as a young man who has even more bats in his belfry than the rest of is family does, which is saying something-this brood is a group of twisted bow-ties if ever there was one. The film is one of two in this set that's shot in black and white. It's also a pretty good one. There are plenty of twists and turns in the plot and most of them are believable. The cinematography is excellent and the performances are all good. Reed goes over the top with his part but does it with the type of flair that separates distinguished actors from half cooked hams.

Kiss of the Vampire (Rip Van Pickled: Vampire Hunter) ***

This (like a few others films in here) starts slowly but ends up being an intriguing tale. Showing vampires as cultured and educated beings and the designated slayer drowning his burden in booze are ideas that make absolute sense. Some terry-cloth undies from the 1960's show up in this piece that's set in the 19th century and the members of the vampire coven come off looking like a group of KKK disciples going hood-less but the story (after the first half hour) flows nicely and the performances are decent.

Nightmare ****

This is a chilling little gem that would be an excellent entry in any set of psychological thrillers. The performances from an ensemble cast of actors that had almost no exposure in North America are excellent. The cinematography is fabulous as well. This is one of the two films in the set that was shot in black and white and it's an excellent example of how the lack of colour can enhance the atmosphere of a film. All of it works in service of a story that flows nicely while taking enough twists and turns to satisfy any lover of classic whodunits.

Night Creatures ****

This may be the best film in this set (though it has strong competition from "Brides of Dracula"). Peter Cushing's performance as a man confronted by his own nature is riveting. The rest of the cast falls only marginally short of the standard he sets. There are some genuinely eerie moments but ultimately, it succeeds as well as it does because of how intelligently it addresses the themes of good, evil and redemption.

The Blockhead of Frankenstein **

Or at least that's what it should have been called. This version of the creature has a "head" that looks like papier-mâch&eacute; mask with a brick glued to the forehead. "The Evil of Frankenstein" has some strong points but even Peter Cushing and a strong supporting cast aren't enough to save a film that's burdened with that makeup job and some laughable holes in the storyline. This is easily the weakest entry in the set.