An excellent film all around.  I'd like to see any of today's directors or actors produce all this complication in a one room setting.  I also want to point out that the official Amazon review terms the title "Maltese Falcon" as a "Middle Eastern" treasure.  Don't tell any Maltese that!  Malta is in the western mediterranean just south of Sicily, hardly near the Middle East.  Occupied for centuries by Italy, it was the site of the famous 16th century battle where a smaller contingent of Catholic European knights (9000, most of whom were common islanders) held off a huge seige by 40,000 Mulsim Turks, establishing the order of the Knights of Malta that is still an official Roman Catholic Knightly order.  At the time, Spain contolled the island and Charles V gave the island to the Knights of St. John to resist the advance of the Ottoman Turks, who he feared might conquer Rome and end Christianity in Europe. A "Maltese Falcon" therefore would have been a object associated with this period and the Knights of Malta as the Wikipedia quote from below seems to prove.

From Wikipedia;

The Maltese Falcon: When Charles V handed the island over to the Knights, one of the conditions attached to the handover was that the Order would send the King a live falcon as an annual tribute. The jewel-encrusted golden falcon of Dashiell Hammett's novel The Maltese Falcon (adapted by John Huston into a famous 1941 film) is entirely fictitious.

The fact that Malta is part of the British Commonwealth and a member of the European Union as well as its location refutes the idea that Malta is a Middle Eastern or the fictitious falcon statue of the film a Middle Eastern treasure.  It is true that like Spain it was occupied by Muslims in the 8th century and the Arabs influenced the Maltese language.  It was also under Norman rule in the 12th century and today Matlese and English are the official languages of the island.  According to Wikipedia, the islands first occupants in pre-bronze age history seem to have come from the north and established the well known, Central European Goddess culture with a notable temple existing in 3600BC - the oldest free standing structure in the world.

All of this surely shows why the movie, "The Maltese Falcon" was so intriguing.  Malta is a very ancient and historically complex island.