Confusion. Nauseating. Touching. Homey. Four words I'd use to describe the movie known as "Phenomenon", one that I watched yesturday during my psychology class. Why the confusion, why the nausea? Perhaps because I wasn't expecting this movie...I didn't even know what it was called. But aside from that, and aside from looking at a scientific explanation, this movie exceeds on most standards. What fooled me at the beginning surprised me near the end; towards the beginning I was feeling almost stupid watching this because there was no scientific explanation for what was happening. A man sees a bright light and the next day wakes up a genius. He seems oblivious to wanting to know why this happens to him but instead choses to go with the flow and, after sensing the beginnings of an earth quake, seems at a loss and seeks for answers to his newly developed questions when all begins to go downhill.

I won't go into too much detail about what happens next but for the most part of the movie, I was in a state of confusion. Why was Travolta feeling like this? What happened to him? And most importantly, why doesn't he seem concerned when everybody else in his know-all town is? I think that, coupled with the small-town feeling (which makes me feel nauseas at times) and the irritating music made me feel out of the loop while everybody else around me was oohing and awing over Travolta's performence.

Towards the end, I was feeling a little bit more reassured. There are some touching scenes but Travolta's great performence more than makes up for the confusion surrounding his diagnosis. His love interest (who's name I cannot recall at the moment) does an outstanding performence as a torn bystander who doesn't know what else to do but simply watch her friend break apart day by day. Altough Travolta's diagnosis is truly devastating, it's wonderful to watch how he deals with it...and I think that's where this movie excels, the point it's trying to make and the point I missed entirely (perhaps because I was expecting more of a scientifically visioned film). This movie isn't about psychology or about earning 200 IQ points over night - it's about being the outcast, being the scum of society, being the freak of nature...and learning how to deal with it.