Many people who saw the slick and stylish Scorcese creation Color of Money didn't even realize that Eddie Felson already existed on the silver screen in The Hustler. What many people tell me when they find out and see The  Hustler is that either they hated it or loved it. That's because while  Color of Money is smooth, slick, smooth, and polished, The Hustler is raw,  biting, and powerful and so by definition it is not for everyone. Color of  Money is more about visual effects and music, which is classic Scorcese,  though there's no real substance. Scorcese himself has said in interviews  that movies like Goodfellas were close to his heart, but Color of Money was  just a commercialized creation. 
The Hustler, on the other hand, really  grabs you. First off, as a pool player myself, let me tell you Tom Cruise  can't play pool worth a damn, and that lack of authenticity is a glaring  weakness to begin with. But just the fact that Newman and Gleason can play  pool does not make The Hustler a better movie - it's a masterpiece because  it is a gripping tale of human redepmption, of Eddie's battle to separate  his pool game from his self-esteem. It's also about one man's passion for  the game. How can any pool player forget that soliloquoy by Fast Eddie when  he and Sarah go for that picnic, how he talks about how he loves even just  the sound of the click of the balls, how the cue has nerves in it and is  part of his arm! 
Remember that last scene in Color of Money, where young  cocky Vincent plays the older, cagier Fast Eddie and Eddie declares  "I'm back" before he breaks the balls? Even though the movie ends  there, everyone knows Eddie wiped up the floor with Vincent. Vincent's  character had talent, but Eddie had character, and that's what beat Fast  Eddie time he played Fats.
Bert Gordon: You got talent.
Fast Eddie: I  got talent? So what beat me?
Bert: Character.
And that's the way the  two movies are too. Color of Money has talent, but The Hustler has  character.