WARNING: BOOK SPOILERS

Come on now, I don't see what the problem was! As someone said before, everything doesn't have to be a kids movie so why bother making it short? Kids like LOTR you know! They're not exactly short, and look how great they are! Things in the books are unnecessarily left out, such as Katrina, Saphira growing up (hello? it just takes about a minute of a few simple shots with some music in the background!), like, the real Murtagh, Arya's ears (and hey, maybe mention that she's an elf! Kinda important ya know...), the real glory of Tronjheim, Angela [without the beads], Eragon's futere-telling, Solembum (HELLO? WAKE UP! He's the BEST CHARACTER!), Jeod, half the villages they travel to, the Ra'zaccs' cloaks beaks and body shape (what's up with the crawling worms in the face?), Eragon and Saphira's relationship (they become sister/brother pals overnight), Sloan, Togira Ikonaka "The Cripple Who Is Whole," and ORIK! Yeah, I think I named just a few things, not to mention half the dialogue was lousy, the other half acceptable but the exact opposite of the book.

If you enjoy seeing a fabulous, richly detailed, passionate, dynamic and unique BOOK be RIPPED TO PIECES, then be my guest, get this movie, but if you do U R SICK. Who wants to see a great story be shredded like that? I, for one, am appalled how they can give it the same title.

Must give it credit for special effects and Saphira is very well done, but how about timing?? Special effects are cool and all, but you need to pace yourself, and the special effects in Eragon are running a ten mile marathon, and they start running out of breath at about the third mile, which is why the last seven miles are CRAP, and rushed and TERRIBLE. I was seriously looking forward to seeing Tronjheim, but nope... guess they couldn't afford to build a huge saphire, but hey: WHY MAKE A MOVIE IF YOU CAN'T MAKE IT THE BEST IT CAN BE?

If you enjoy disappointment, then please, by all means, get this movie. Be disappointed. It doesn't matter to me, I'm just here to give you a review.

I gave this two stars because although everything is backwards and messed up and scrambled, there are a few parts which are splendid, such as the first five minutes or so of the movie. I loved the village of Carvahall even if we only see it once, and I enjoyed Saphira's egg hatching. I think Roran and Eragon's relationship was well displayed as well. This is about the only things that are FAIR. Jeremy Irons was wonderful but there's only so much you can do with an AWFUL script.

Thanks for the effort, but all thumbs down. Try again, but next time, read the book.