In this day and age, TV shows from television's yesteryears are becoming more commonplace daily.  I never thought of the day that Doug would ever be released on DVD.

For those of you who doesn't remember, don't want to remember or just too young to remember, Doug was one of the first original Nicktoons (along with Rugrats and The Ren and Stimpy Show) distributed by Nickelodeon during its famed "Golden Age" in 1991.

It was created by cartoonist Jim Jinkins, a Nickelodeon alum from another Nick show, Pinwheel.  It follows the adventures of Douglas Yancey Funnie, an imaginative 11-year-old who moves with his family from Bloatsburg to the city of Bluffington, gaining new friends (and enemies) along the way.

Though a lot of fans will probably disagree with me, the show somehow shows a lot of racial diversity through an array of everyday characters, like Doug's family (his mom, dad and older, quirky sister Judy), his pet dog, Porkchop, his zany friend, Skeeter Valentine, and his neighbors, the Dinks.  How can we forget about his enemies (school bully Roger Klotz and his gang) and the school's assistant principal, Lamarr Bone?  Well, we can't because they help to make Doug's new Bluffington life more interesting (and complex).  The thing that tripped me out was one of Doug's main motivation:  romancing the heart of his secret crush, the lovely Patty Mayonnaise.

What would Doug be without his alter egos: school evader Jack Bandit, the superheroics of Quailman and Quaildog, and the adventures of the suave and debonair secret agent, Smash Adams?  Answer:  they would be boring if not for these.

The unforgettable melody of the show's theme songs helps to round out the song.  Plus, for its first time out of the gate, the animation was on point.  It's all good when both Amazon.com and Nickelodeon came to a deal to finally release this and many more of Nick's classic shows on DVD.  Though I was disappointed about no special features included, it didn't matter much to me because I can finally own it on DVD format.

Keep it up, Amazon.com!  Bring out Season 3!  Rock on!