there's no doubt in my mind that if the events portrayed in "braveheart" were all historically accurate this would be one of the greatest movies of all time.  of course, they are not, as this is a "dramatization", and gibson and the screenwriters and producers took their fair share of liberties with the plot.  wallace's first love interest, his childhood companion murron, is believable, even if it's a little hollywood, but wallace's sexual encounter with the princess of wales (which almost certainly never happened) is ridiculous.  he takes her to bed after having spent about two minutes with her.  it makes his last thoughts about murron seem less genuine.  the film also depicts richard the bruce's decision to continue wallace's fight against england, though here the battle is shown to be immediately after wallace's execution, when in fact it took place ten years later.  the movie also exhibits a rigid anglophobic sense, depicting king edward as a soulless, cruel man, and wallace as an unabashedly do-no-wrong hero.  even worse is edward ii's frailty and ignorance.  it's not surprising since this is a major movie, but given the historical significance of wallace's campaigns, it would be nice to get a more accurate picture.  for what it is though, there's no denying that "braveheart" is a great story.  gibson gives an impassioned performance, and leaves no doubt that he loves his country and truly believes in it and himself.  like i said, i don't like what they did with princess isabelle, but nonetheless sophie marceau is great (the scene with a dying kind edward is maybe her best).  the showstealer though is unquestionably david o'hara, who plays the crazy irishman, stephen.  some of his one-liners are quite memorable.  many critics have a problem with the excessively gory battle sequences, but they do a good job of showing just how gruesome such a fight can be without actually being there.  some of it may seem a little unnecessary to parents who show this movie to their kids, but understand that it's meant to have such an effect.  this is a great movie, that pulls off its epic aspirations admirably, and keeps you entertained and interested throughout.  don't take any of it to your history classroom, but enjoy the movie for what it is.