I don't usually write reviews for films, but hot at the heels of having read Paul Fussell's "The Great War" I found myself thinking again about this grossly underrated film, and now I find myself flabbergasted by the numerous negative reviews it has received.

This film was my first introduction to steampunk (a genre characterized by copious use of anachronisms) and I must say that what some reviewers complained was a dull beginning had me me absolutely captivated. I can think of no other recent film which attempts to capture the appalling and gruesome setting of WWI trenches and the concomitant sense of meaninglessness and futility experienced by its protagonists--the soldiers at the front.

Yet, whereas WWI was marked by dramatic distinctions (for example, the surreal landscapes of the battlefield and bodily mutilations were just a short ferry ride away from the vibrant cafes and beautiful gardens of England for British soldiers fighting in Belgium and France), in this film the distinctions collapse as the entire planet is visited by the dark night of war. The first third of the movie explores the collapse of society into what Fussell calls "the troglodyte world" of the trenches, and attempts to suggest its link to myth.

Soldiers in WWI also tried to situate their experiences in the myths and romances with which they were familiar--and often, especially as the war dragged on, failed. The result was a crisis of faith--not merely in God, but in technology, progress and mankind. It is in the midst of this crisis that we meet the film's protagonist. And while some might argue (rightly) that the film is just a modern version of "The Dirty Dozen," it is also true that the film is about faith--or the loss of it. No, not in some silly pop-Christianity feel-good sense that everything will work out if you trust in Jesus. Rather, I would argue that the film is closer to the philosopher Soren Kierkegaard. Are you willling to take a leap of faith? the film asks. (The question comes up more recently in "Inception.") Not faith in a book, a creed or a Divinity--but in mankind? What about something akin to a benevolent universe?

Or, here is another one: In a world without meaning, is heroism even possible? I think that the film answers Yes, even when the characters say No.

In the end, it's uncertain as to whether or not the protagonist has come to learn faith or believe in heroic causes, but the beauty of the film lies in its characters' continuous wrestling with these questions, from the very beginning to the very end of the film.

Coupled with the strange setting and anachronisms (coal-powered spacecraft, etc.), the questions this film contemplates make this one of the best sci-fi movies of recent years. Hardcore sci-fi fans may disagree, but I would recommend this film to anyone looking for a thoughtful film set in an uncanny world that is both familiar and strange. Ultimately, there is more here, I think, than meets the eye.