FLCL is probably one of the strangest series you will have watched. Ever. Though as confusing as its plot can be at times, it never gets ridiculously convoluted, knowing just the right limit to push its viewers to make them think "yeah, I don't get it, but if I watch it enough times, I probably will." And considering that it's only five episodes long, you very well can (and should!) do such.

For the uninitiated, FLCL pretty much defined an era of anime fans that would have otherwise been completely dominated by the likes of Dragon Ball and Sailor Moon. And unlike studio Gainax's other hit at the time (Evangelion), it doesn't take itself too seriously (or seriously at all, for that matter); while Evangelion told the coming of age story in the most pretentious way possible, FLCL takes things in the completely opposite direction, telling the same story in the most ridiculous zany way possible. You may not get everything at first, but with a few more watches, you'll start to notice little bits and pieces that tie together each episode. And even if you don't, that's what the episode commentaries for each episode are for.

Besides the commentary tracks, there are also music tracks from The Pillows, whose Japanese Rock tunes permeate the entire series along with the music video for the series closing credits theme - "Ride On Shooting Star." One minor complaint is that the music video seems to be in widescreen, but doesn't adjust for widescreen televisions, making the footage surrounded by black bars on all sides. Other than that, though, the extras alone make up for paying around $20 for a 5-episode series.

As for those wondering about picking up the Blu-Ray versus sticking to the DVD version: The series was made in 2000, so I wouldn't consider the footage nice enough to warrant paying the extra for the BR version. However, other reviewers have stated that the BR footage in this release is different from the apparently horrendous BR footage used in the original Japanese BR release, so there's always that to consider. At the end of the day, though, I'd say stick to the DVD version; the animation is nice... but it isn't *that* nice.