I too love the movie and Lion King is one of the classics right up there with Snow White, Cinderella, and Fantasia etc.  I miss The Morning Report integrated on the 3D BD , or the 2D BD, it isn't integrated into either movie for big bucks I paid for the Bluray set I expect the option of seeing the "Special Edition" version of the Bluray.  In the description where they laid out what you will be getting with each version, they stated that The Lion King Trilogy (Eight-Disc Combo: Blu-ray 3D / Blu-ray / DVD / Digital Copy) would include the Special Edition of the film.  Another bone I have to pick about the set is the ridiculous packaging.  I thought Disney was all about being green.  The packaging includes: An oversized box, the movie specification on a slipcover, when you take the slipcover off you discover a cardboard African (I assume) drum, then you separate the drum and in the middle of all of this wasted materials is your Bluray discs all in cardboard accordion style case about the size of the disc,  save the squared bottom.  They could have (I really wish I got a choice) offered a thick case like the Die Hard Collection [Blu-ray] or The Godfather: The Coppola Restoration. Or they could have gone with a proper box-set, like they did with the box set that was released before POTC: On Stranger Tides. Just a straight forward 3 Standard Blurays with a slip cover.  Simple same hight as most the rest of blurays currently being sold.  The big box is ugly and takes up too much room.  They did another silly case for the Pirates of the Caribbean Four-Movie Collection.  I saved about $30 buying the trilogy and then the 3D version of POTC: On Stranger Tides.

And why since the Special Edition DVD release included new song "Morning Report"? huh, you list it being there where is it?  It is buried on the 2D Disc bonus features.  Why oh why could they have just dropped it into the film like the previous DVD release, oh wait maybe they will be releasing a super duper collectors edition with it integrated into the film (BTW they could have easily done it with a software tweak, no need for a second disc).

As for the 3D I did not buy this collection for the 3D version of The Lion King.  I bought the bluray box-set when I had my old 2D Sony Bravia 46 inch LCD TV.  It went and died. So I purchased the massive 70" 3D Sharp Aquos 240 hertz, but now after reviewing the movie it is hard to tell the difference between the 2 versions, just a chance to get more cash.  Good one on Disney for a crap substandard 2D to 3D conversion.  And I can tell you its not my setup.  I have a collection of other 3D blurays and the 3D is spectacular.  Save a tree avoid this box-set unless you must have 1 1/2 and 2 on bluray and just can't wait for Disney to release.