...it ain't good. Horror, action and the Western are combined in Jonah Hex, the film based on the DC comic book. You'd think that combining horror and Wild Western action would be a win-win, right? But somehow it ends up being a forgettable train wreck by the time it concludes.

Jonah Hex fights for the Confederacy until his commanding officer, Quentin Turnbull gives the order to attack a hospital. Turnbull's son draws on Hex because of his refusal to attack and is shot dead. Quentin Turnbull doesn't take kindly to his son being killed and hunts down Jonah Hex at his home. Turnbull ties Hex to a cross outside of his home and burns the house down with his wife and son inside, forcing him to watch. Turnbull also brands Hex's face with a hot iron, disfiguring him. Hex hangs on the cross for days, dying until Crow Indians find and rescue the dying man. Using an assortment of magical techniques they somehow manage to bring Hex back from near death. Now the former Confederate soldier has a mysterious power that grants him the ability to bring people back to life for a limited amount of time.

Hex wants revenge but Turnbull dies in a hotel fire before he can extract it. Doing what he knows best, Jonah takes up bounty hunting and soon becomes well-known. It isn't long before Turnbull turns up in a train robbery looking quite well for a dead man. It seems that Turnbull plans to destroy the United States government using a weapon of mass destruction that looks like Dragon Balls (you know, from Dragon Ball Z?).

The film starts out quite promising. I enjoyed the first fifteen minutes but unfortunately it was all downhill from there. Josh Brolin does a fine job as Hex but the character doesn't have much depth to him. Lilah, Jonah's prostitute love interest played by Megan Fox seems like an almost thrown in character who has virtually no back story. We're never told why she cares for Hex or for that matter why she's a whore. As in her other movies, Megan Fox is nice to look at but as an actress she's downright terrible (especially in this role).

While I don't think it would have saved the film, the PG-13 rating is incredibly limiting for a Western that is supposed to have horror elements such as this one. I'm not saying that blood, violence and gore are the answer to all the negatives found in Jonah Hex (or any other film for that matter) by any means but without limitations the action sequences could have at least been more satisfying. Sadly, like most of the film, with the exception of the first town shootout, the action feels very bland and thrown together.

The soundtrack doesn't do it any favors either, sounding like a typical late 90's action film with its roaring orchestral score and occasional electric guitar rifts. Perhaps the composers should have listened to some of Ennio Morricone's works for inspiration.

Maybe its nit-picking but the special weapons in this film just look dumb. They're incredibly cheesy and just so uncreative. If you look at a film like Van Helsing where the vampire hunter uses a variety if nifty artillery in cool ways and compare it to Jonah Hex one cannot help but sigh at the lackluster efforts. Between the lousy looking guns at the utterly stupid looking Dragon Ball weapons of mass destruction, you're left to wonder just who designed the props for this movie.

At a running time of about 80 minutes it's story is lackluster and feels thrown together. A majority of the action sequences are dull, the acting is fairly sub-par on all fronts and even the films score stands out as a negative. I seriously wonder how this film got a theatrical release. Had it been a SyFi original movie I would have at least given it a little leeway but perhaps that's being too kind because I've honestly seen far better SyFy original movies such as Ghost Town. I went in really wanting to like Jonah Hex and to disagree with the critics who ripped on it. After all, I love horror films and I love well-done Western films but in the end, Jonah Hex fails to be a good Western or horror film. In fact, it fails to be a good film period.