I remember watching this as a child and it really was a never-ending story - an epic of great proportions.  In fact, I was probably a lot like Bastian, really getting into the story and living it, and it felt like it went on for ages as you traveled with the characters.  As an adult, my first reaction was "wow, is the movie over already?"  It just went so much faster and while it still had charm, I couldn't believe the different perspective I had.

Bastian lives with his father after the death of his mother.  A small boy and quiet by nature, he is often the target of bullies.  It is on one day, when he is running from said bullies, that he stumbles into a store where an old man shows him a mysterious book called The Neverending Story.  Knowing he has to read it, Bastian slips out of the shop with the book (but assures the owner in a note he'll bring it back) and takes it to school.  There in the attic, he starts to read the book and becomes a part of a world called Fantasia, where the nothingness is taking over and the empress is dying and only a young boy named Atreyu can help save it.  But to do so he must go on a dangerous journey, where his wit and skills will be tested.

Characters:
Barret Oliver: Bastian Bux
Noah Hathaway: Atreyu
Tami Stronach: The Empress
Alan Oppenheimer: Falkor, Gmork, Rock Biter and the Narrator
Moses Gunn: Cairon
Sydney Bromley: Engywook

I don't really remember caring either way about Bastian as a child.  As an adult I find him a tad annoying, but at least his imagination and zest for reading is charming.  And he does seem like a realistic little boy.  Oliver did a good job filling the role.  Hathaway as Atreyu was quite good too.  He had to do a lot of different things in the movie and he pulled them off admirably.  He had the right amount of spunk that brave Atreyu needed as well.  The only other character that got a ton of screen time was Falkor and since he was a dragon, his voice was appropriately deep and commanding (as done by Oppenheimer).  He's a likable dragon though, with a certain jovialness to him that's appealing.  The other characters are all neat, but they play small roles and in my opinion, not used to the best of their abilities.  But they do paint the picture for what Fantasia is like.

This is an adventure movie.  It's based off of a book (which I have not yet read but will eventually) and I can't really say how well it follows the book.  I'm assuming well since it seems like the author had a big hand in how the movie was made.  As said before though, while this movie went slowly as a child, it moves very very fast as an adult.  Almost rushed.  So as much as I would like to give it the highest rating, there are some flaws there that nostalgia just can't fix for me.  This is a kids movie, and it's appropriate for kids, however, there are some very hard themes that are expressed in it.  Loss, violence, sorrow; just to name a few.

For being made in the eighties, this movie had some decent special effects.  The dragon Falkor alone was well done and lifelike, and even a bit scary for a young child.  Likewise the other characters had neat costumes.  The only thing I really found hokey would be the castle in the end, it was just a little out there.  But really, well done.  And then there's the music.  Epic music, I loved all of it.  Mainly because it brought back memories but there's just something so catchy about it all, and it was written specifically for the movie so it's very fitting as well.

This movie brings back a lot of memories, and while it's not quite what I remembered it's still very good.  It's one of those movies that all ages will like too so it's a good one for family night.  Enjoy this jewel!

Review by M. Reynard 2012