As a 30 year fan of SATURDAY NIGHT FEVER, I am sorely disappointed in the lack of quality of the DVD extras on this "collector's edition."  Other than the "Back to Brooklyn" piece, the features lacks any depth, and borders on kitschy and predictible.  Do we really need to see a gotee'd buffoon teach us how to execute the tango hustle?  Completely goofy, and all these features do is take away from the fact that this film broke ground with its provocative subject matter which included life decisions, feeling trapped, and most importantly, losing a friend to suicide while seeing yourself metaphorically doing the same thing.  The clothes and the dance steps were secondary characters to the REAL grit of the story....and its main characters.

 I understand that John Travolta was unavailable to particpate, but it would have been much more interesting if a creative way was found to include Travolta's presence in the extras with perhaps a feature about who he was and what he was going through prior to, and while, this film was being made....he lost the love of his life, Diana Hyland, and it would have been great to hear from the people who helped Travolta's career get to the point when he landed SNF. There are so many people we HAVEN'T seen who have stories to tell but no one seems to investigate any deeper possibilities for these interviews than the obvious (and overused) candidates. The VH-1 "Behind the Music" piece on the previous edition was much more informative than all of these pieces put together....and they cut out about 30 minutes of that!

And please....the lighting on some of these interviewees was hideous.  Barry Gibb looks like George Washington....the 1960s "tie dye" should never have been used as a background.  And that disco dancing monkey in the interstitials.....I sure hope no one thinks that John Travolta was the template for that embarassing chapter break.....it looks like one of the animated Osmonds from their Saturday morning cartoon series.  Painful.

SATURDAY NIGHT FEVER was a courageous film....these cheesy extras are anything BUT.

I'll say it again - this groundbreaking film deserves better and classier.