Although at first blush this film might sound like the studio pitchman's perfect concept movie, "a Jewish Nazi!", in reality it is a serious, complex, thought-provoking film that sent me home to do some research on Jewish theology and a search to discover what it is that is appealing about fascism to some people.  I do think those who liked the slicker movies of American History X or Fight Club might like this movie, too, but this independent film goes beyond those in importance.  Interestingly, Ryan Gosling has been compared to Edward Norton who was a lead actor in both those films, but I think that comparison is a complement to Edward Norton.
Ultimately I realized it is not at all far-fetched or unthinkable for a Jew to join a fascistic hate-group and to advocate the destruction of his own kind.  There is, after all, often an element of self-destruction in each of us, if only at the level of unhealthy habits such as smoking, drugs, overeating, or unsafe sex, but, more socially serious, studies have shown that gay bashers, for example, are more often closer to the homosexual end of the Kinsey scale than not.  This kind of hatred is actually a deep self-hatred.  And besides, there is strong evidence that Hitler, himself, was half-Jewish, based on his abusive father whom Hitler hated and was deeply ashamed of.  And, in the character Daniel Balint we have an obvious underachiever, who, similar to Hitler, is an intelligent, but severely conflicted, charismatic, persuasive, passionate individual.  Balint is working only as a forklift operator and seems to spend all his free time lifting weights and researching hate-group websites, but, due to his charms, the leaders of the fascist movement Balint joins attempt to conscript him into the political arena.
Balint expresses the contention that he is disgusted at Jewish passivity in the face of intended annihilation and to prove it, bashes an innocent student who is unwilling or unable to defend himself.  But realistically, how many of us would be able to protect ourselves against a thug on the street who has targeted us or a sniper in the bushes who has placed gunsight cross-hairs on our skull?  Or against a political movement that was moving step-by-step in an unthinkable agenda towards our extermination (which, for all we know, may be happening once again right now)?  But really, Balint, himself, doesn't really believe his own argument, most obviously indicated by his willing complicity to get involved with the masochistic daughter of the head of the proto-fascist organization he joins.  Instead of being disgusted by her as well, he willingly punches her in the face prior to their having sex, at her request.  Besides, as a people, the Jews are anything but passive and, in fact, have continued to survive (and thrive) in the face of constant enemies throughout their entire history, whether we are talking about Biblical warrior tribes wandering in the desert, individuals contending with the horrors of the Holocaust, or modern-day Israelis in an eternal battle against Arabs.  Nowadays, there is even a self-defense martial arts technique credited to the Israeli Army, Krav Maga.
Daniel Balint's battle is with God Himself, or, more properly said, with the meanings and means of Existence or Nonexistence.  In the film we see flashbacks of him as an aggressive, questioning student, reading Biblical metaphor as factual truth and concluding that the God who required Abraham to sacrifice his son or who tortured Job with unjustifiable afflictions is the ultimate fascist (as mythologist Joseph Campbell said, "Too many rules and no mercy").  If only as a student he allowed himself to mature and wrestle with the studies some more.  Existence is frought with the unthinkable, where an innocent squirrel could run across a highway right underneath the tires of your car, or a child contracts leukemia.  How can one explain "why bad things happen to good people," (an issue wrestled with by a rabbi in a book by that name); ultimately, all we CAN do is accept life as it comes, keep on doing our best with what we know, and have faith that somehow it will all work out.  Ultimately, the entirety of the universe is way beyond our comprehension and "faith" is there to fill in the gap.  But this is unacceptable to the idealisms and passions of youth, who wants to use its muscle and energy for solutions NOW.
Ryan Gosling could not have presented a more riveting performance--this is an actor who has developed his face and body into a radiant instrument.  When he was beating up the student he targeting on the subway, agony reflected on his face and in his bearing, it was as if it were the student hurting HIM.  When forced to attend sensitivity training with Holocaust survivors (whose actual nightmares became his own), he turned his tear ducts into vaccuums, [bringing] the tears back inside.  And in his confrontation with the Torah, Gosling's own face became an open scroll embossed with letters of the flame alphabet.  This is clearly a film to see even if all you want to do is observe the work of the consummate actor, but don't be surprised if when you get home, you find yourself doing some heavy thinking.  This movie goes way beyond the momentary hours you fill while watching it, into, possibly, an exploration of just what kind of a believer YOU are.  In fulfilling the meaning of your existence, how strong are you in the face of unanswerable questions?