I had the pleasure of viewing this film with the director present at the DC film festival. After enjoying this delightful, almost nostalgic work, Peter Bogdanovich answered questions and offered his thoughts and initial ambitions for making the film. I was particularly taken by the film's energy, and its ability to remove the audience from their own individual worlds, and place them on William Randolph Hearst's yacht for a weekend trip in the late 1920's. The movement and dialogue in the film personify the internal hopes and mind sets of the major characters, each drastically different.
It seems that a viewer of the film should not search for some deep meaning or reflection on society, rather they should be interested in its portrayal of a blanketed mystery that took place years ago and is embedded in irony and revenge, comedy and heartbreak.
Bogdanovich claims to have learned about the story from the nephew of Marion Davies, (Hearst's famous faithful mistress) who told him the mysterious story of a death on the famous print media editor's yacht during a short trip down the coast of California. The story interested Bogdonovich, and later on an urge from a famous film critic, he was inspired to bring the tale to life after he found a screenplay of just this subject in his daily pile of scripts he recieved from writers. The result is a success, a film that effectively portrays the heart wrenching deceit, and jealous revenge that consumed the media lords' world on this extraordinary weekend in 1929.
The characters are magnificent, and in some cases brilliently acted. My personal favorites are Eddie Izzard's (choice British performer), role as Charlie Chaplain, the talented comedien and and writer who's love for Hearst's mistress Marion, tears the proper manner and aristocratic tranquility of the film apart. Joanna Lumley's job as the famous west coast reporter, Elinor Glyn, is charming (i'm a big ab fab fan, she's patsy).
The film is intriquing and enjoyable, beginning and ending in black and white while the characters attend a very mysterious funeral. The black and white scenes illustrate well the reality that the upper class members must face, while the beautifly matstered colored scenes on the yatch portray the fast-paced blur that seemed to be this particular boat tour.
I recommend catching this film if you have the means, and please take time to enjoy Izzard's performance, he's one i'll be watching out for from now on.