As a longtime Beatles and George Harrison fan who remembers buying this album all those years ago, it's nice to have this well-packaged memento for my DVD collection. It's all there: the concert itself, along with a collection of goodies, most notably a second disc with a documentary of the concert and other gems. However, what struck me most was the professionalism and sincerity of George Harrison himself. The ex-Beatle put an amazing show together. He asked Billy Preston, Leon Russell, Badfinger (on acoustic guitars), with other guitarists, backup singers and horn players to fill out the lineup. Yes, Eric Clapton and Bob Dylan were there, but they both kept Harrison hanging almost up to the last minute. I talk about Harrison's professionalism and sincerity because not only did he headline the show, doing great songs from his "All Things Must Pass" album, but he also did fine versions of his Beatles classics "Here Comes The Sun" and "While My Guitar Gently Weeps." It's maddening when you think that just three years later, on his North American tour, he had become so bitter. He didn't even want to perform his Beatles songs, and when he did they were unrecognizable jumbles of music. Such an injustice. He clearly had issues, and goodnessknows what was going on behind the scenes with his former bandmates from Liverpool that led Harrison to become so aloof with such masterpieces. Yet here he is just before the Bangladesh concert, telling Geraldo Rivera that he was so flattered that people would sell out the show in hours because of his connection with the Fab Four. They say Mr. Harrison was a paradox, and the change in him from 1971 to 1974 bears that out. He finally made amends in 1991 with his tour of Japan with Clapton, resulting in the live double CD of great performances. Sorry I have rambled, and there is so much more to say. I would love to sit down with Mrs. Harrison and write a book about the '74 tour, and maybe get Jim Keltner and Willie Weeks to talk as well. Hopefully the Beatles fans will understand what I'm saying here. This is a great DVD, and it belongs in your collection if you are a Harrison fan.