Perhaps because I wasn't expecting much, I was very pleasantly surprised by this film. It is a farce, but it plays with audience preconceptions as much as character relationships. The two lead characters (in what is really a largely ensemble film) are two male lovers-- for all intents and purposes an old married couple-- who work together. Their job? The are strongarm and hitmen for a mafia don. The don loves them as if they were family, and they are equally affectionate and protective of him. Though both are Italian, he bemoans the fact that they are not Sicilian, for if they were he would be tempted to leave them the family "business".  He has two sons-- both of whom are straight, married, and fathers-- but neither seems cut out for, or indeed, desirous of taking over the business (one wishes to be a chef and the other a designer). The don also has a beautiful daughter, who is more into, and interested in, the family "business" than either of her brothers. She is devoted to our two heroes, as is her father, and indeed all of her family.

Trouble in paradise lumbers onto the picture when the parents of one of the hitmen decide to surprise him by visiting. This causes a great deal of consternation-- not because of the gay relationship he is in, which his parents not only know about but seem to enthusiastically accept-- but because he has not told them of his own "profession"-- and his parents think he and his partner run a catering business.  It is further complicated by the fact that his father is a secret "deep cover" FBI (or is it CIA?) agent, which his mother does not know.  Worse yet, the father would be obligated to turn the son and partner in if he knew.  At the same time, the Don's daughter becomes engaged to a young man from the midwest, whose parents, on learning of the engagement, decide to visit NYC-- not primarily to see their son, but to launch "the second American revolution" to free the country from the occupying army of the federal government. (Yes, they're looney-tunes).

This all could be egregiously formulaic and cutesy... and indeed, I agree with other reviewers in the observation that it seems odd the lead couple never even give each other a peck on the cheek. But the whole thing is handled in an agreeably breezy, appropriately farcical way. For example, Stephen, the hitman whose mother and father are coming to visit, is on them phone with his mother who is bemoaning the violence and danger of New York City, while he and his lover dress, a major element of which is loading and hiding (in their clothing) their various impressive firearms. Much of the humor is handled in this deadpan way. At any rate, these very interesting and oddly matched ingredients are all poured over ice, stirred, and -- voila! Ecce Farce. Not Moliere or Feydeau, but a very amiable and humorous cocktail which should please most palates.  I rarely suggest "gay" themed films to my straight friends but this is one I think I will suggest... it might not evoke belly laughs, but there is nothing wrong with some delighted chuckling. Most of all, the film doesn't have delusions of grandeur, as "verkakte" as it is... moreover it is pleasantly well-acted by most of the cast. So if you'd like an amusing, very droll and generally very drily humorous little film, you could do a helluva lot worse than this! Get a nice cold drink and settle back and enjoy.

Into their tidy if admittedly nef