Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles was truly great television. I use the past tense appropriately since Fox has seen fit to cancel one of the best dramas on TV. There were so many things right about this show. The acting by all involved was excellent. The stories were well thought out, held your interest, and actually involved IDEAS! the show made you think about issues and possibilities. The themes were so compelling that they have entered into our culture. I recently saw a program (on the History Channel I believe) about ten things that could lead to the destruction of humanity. One of them was the development of machine artificial intelligence. This program was not a fantasy, but a thoughtful exploration of the risks that face us in the future. On the Military Channel, there was a program about the research going on at present to develop humanoid soldier robots for our military who have enough intelligence to function independently of a human controller. That means the KILL/NO-KILL decision would be left up to the machine. In both of these programs, the Terminator movies were mentioned as examples of what could be. Numerous other themes were explored in this series, but in the interest of brevity I won't repeat what others have already written. A previous reviewer spoke about whether a machine could ever actually be taught to love or is it just all programming. Does it really matter? The Turing Test tells us that when a machine imitation of anything is so good that humans are essentially unable to tell the difference between the machine's responses and that of a human, it no longer matters.

The cancellation of dramas like this one by network executives is an example of capitalism at its worst. It is clear that in American industry (including the entertainment industry), NOTHING matters but the bottom line. All TV shows are viewed simply as containers for commercials. If the show doesn't draw enough viewers during broadcast, it is killed, no matter what other value it may have. Fans of a particular show or viewers interested in quality programming may fuss and fume, write reviews on Amazon, write letters to the network, but it doesn't matter. As the networks execs view it, that stuff doesn't bring home the bacon. Remember, the mantra of all American industries is "SHOW ME THE MONEY!"

So, I have a suggestion to make to the execs who run these networks. It may appeal to their robber-baron mentality. If you have a really great show that has a solid fan base but just isn't generating the revenue from commercials, why not consider continuing to make the show, but sell it by subscription. Look at how many people are buying the DVDs of the Sarah Connor Chronicles. How many of them would be willing to sign up to receive regular mailings of new episodes on DVD for a reasonable price. I'd be willing to pay $50 or even $75 a year to receive new episodes on DVD. That doesn't sound like much, but when you multiply it by 400,000 or so, it starts looking a lot more attractive. It turns my stomach to say this, but someone in accounting at the network will immediately think of it: you could even put a few commercials on the DVD. Please, please put them all at the beginning or end and don't interfere with the pacing of the show that is so important in a drama.

There may be questions about whether the public would be willing to subscribe like this. It will depend on whether or not the producing organization is able to keep the price reasonable. I would suggest tying it to the going price of a movie. For example, if the average price of a movie is $8 to $10, and the average movie is two hours in length, then you could charge $50 for 10 hours of the subscription show. This would allow the salvation of some really good art, for I believe that a good drama like T:TSCC is art. The TV execs could even pretend that they cared about things like art, even though we all know that is bull.