If Mary Harron's film has the slightest chance of being regarded as a success, it will only be seen as such by viewers unfamiliar with Bret Easton Ellis's novel. 
The Ellis novel was relentlessly downbeat, its occasional black humour registering entirely intellectually. Flashes of brutal wit jolt the reader from the otherwise deliberate numbing produced by his obsessive-compulsive villain's soliloquays. Ellis's world is claustrophobic, oppressive: one in which every character is a monster of greed and moral apathy. Patrick Bateman is distinguished from his peers only by his commission of sickeningly and inventively brutal murders. 
For all the disco-ball glamour of Bateman's world, the utter crassness of his monied yuppie compatriots undercuts any sense of a reader's vicarious envy. In any one of Ellis's setpiece exclusive restaurants, the maitre-d' is shockingly rude in the ugly American sense (as oppposed to a stereotypically highbrow French or English sense), the waitresses are surly and incompetent, and the nearby diners speak far too loudly about nothing but money and shopping. The most expensive evening in Manhattan turns out to be a very unpleasant experience indeed.
Harron very wrongly plays "American Psycho" for its 'comedy'. The atmosphere of its opening scene is reminiscent of an opera bouffe, as the credits are spelled in what first appears to be blood and is soon shown to be a berry sauce drizzled over elaborately presented food at--a cinematic and novelistic leitmotif---an exclusive restaurant.
The film is surprisingly non-violent on an explicit level, almost as much so as the novel was graphic. Harron perhaps dodged some ratings issues, in addition to a great deal of political flack, with her use of implied and off-screen violence, and much less of it at that than occurs in the Ellis story. However necessary such a choice may have been from the point of view of marketing, however, Harron loses a critical dimension of grittiness and actual (not only spiritual) horror. Bateman's madness and detached curiosity (according to Ellis) are explicated in the novel through the agency of his treatment of corpses, his forays into dissection and cannibalism.
Harron similarly airbrushes the grinding poverty, filthiness, and random, miscellaneous unpleasantnesses from Manhattan's streets. Tellingly, Ellis's novel begins with Bateman's judgemental observation of street people, depraved graffiti and garbage, as seen from a taxi window. Harron's film shows none of that, except in the brief meeting between Bateman and a beggar, a scene very much toned down from the novel.
One can only imagine how disasterous the once-rumoured casting of Leonardo diCaprio as Bateman might have been. DiCaprio's slender, unthreatening frame and distinctive facial beauty would have made it impossible either to fear him or to mistake him for others, as constantly happens in the plot of both the novel and the film. 
Patrick Bateman, in Ellis's protrayal, is so flawlessly groomed and generically, nearly featurelessly handsome that he is occassionally taken for any vapidly perfect male model. 
Harron chose Christian Bale well as a physical presence. He wears his designer suits with the oblivious comfort of the well-born, and his nearly perfect face is oddly forgettable. There is something enigmatic and seemingly incomplete about Bale's physiognomy: even watching direct shots of him taken at close-range, one has the sense of seeing something obliquely, as if part of his face were constantly obscured, or faceted ever so slightly out of the line of vision. Bale's lovely face is indeed one which, as the plot and characterization require, could be mistaken for that of any other equally handsome man.
The choice of a British actor for Bateman, however talented he may be, no doubt appeared to be a good idea in the initial casting process. Few American actors would appreciate the hyper-sensitivity to class issues which Ellis's Bateman ruminates on, endlessly and disdainfully, nor could they easily generate his droit de seigneur bearing. 
There is, however, the very unfortunate matter of Bale's attempted American accent. Bale clearly spent mucht time studying the particular nasal bray of the Andover-Harvard aristocracy, but he never once pulls it off, sounding instead as if he had a slight speech impediment. Given that Bale is the lead, this constant distraction is most unfortunate for the film overall.
By soft-shoeing the hideousness of Bateman's acts; by relatively normalizing the members of his social circle; and by completely removing the other, darker, despairing New York from Bateman's designer world, Harron does much to reduce her lead to a bizarre but meaninglessly destructive cipher. 
Unfortunately, Ellis's extraordinary sensitivity to sociological phenomena is rarely in evidence here. The more conflicted, intelligent, 'deeper' Bateman which Ellis so carefully constructs as a sort of human 'cautionary tale' ends up as something like the evil twin of Christian Bale's smirking, guffawing incarnation.