Bottom line: everything is magic and stop asking questions.
I decided to give this movie two stars for this simple reason: it earned one because it's horrible and then I gave it another one for being able to trick me into actually going to the theatre to see it.

No spoilers review:
This movie is decent if you don't take things too seriously and just want something stupid to look at for a couple hours to waste time. It's marginally entertaining, just don't expect the plot to hold up to even the lightest of probing.

Spoilers review *Don't read if you don't want it ruined*:
I knew I was going to be in trouble when I saw Mila Kunis as her acting is usually pretty inexcusable, but I have to give her credit on this one. For once she wasn't the problem.
I prefer apocalyptic films like The Road, where the main character is not an infallible super-god casually hacking and blasting his way through a sea of enemies like this was Resident Evil on easy mode or something. So I was almost immediately slightly disappointed. Nothing is a challenge for Eli. He could murder rapists with both arms tied behind his back.
And of course the movie uses that tired old premise where one dusty old loner picks up a sidekick against his will and then instantly warms up to them and would do anything to protect them...

*Serious spoilers! Beware*
The most annoying twist in the whole movie is when Eli turns out to be blind and everything that he did in the movie up to that point is all because of magic, I suppose. Your guess is as good as mine. There is no way he could have done half the stuff he did in the film up to that point without his sight (hunting a completely silent cat with a bow and arrow), so the answer must be magic!

The movie really "jumped the shark" when Eli's bible is destroyed and with his last dying breath he must dictate a new one to Malcolm McDowell. I guess being blind also gives you incredible time control powers, because it would take forever to dictate the bible to someone. To say nothing of the fact that one man would never be able to memorize the entire thing! I'm guessing this was an extremely paraphrased (IE completely made up) version.

It's like someone had a very, very vague idea for a movie and no one felt like ironing out a plot first, so they said, "Let's just start filming and we'll come up with something as we go."