The first time I saw a Dario Argento film I was blown away by his artistic depiction of dreamlike violence. The colors, the strange music, the fluid camera work connected with me on an almost spiritual level. I needed to see more. Thus began a quest to purchase every title directed by the Italian master of the macabre. I wasn't disappointed until I bought "Phantom of the Opera" with Julian Sands. I thought, maybe this was just a fluke. A bad movie with no redeemable value. I stuck with him through mediocre fare like "Do you like Hitchcock?", "Sleepless" (which was actually pretty good), and "The Card Player", not to mention the terrible "Jenifer" for Showtime's Masters of Horror. Then, came "Pelts", which made me realize the master still had it in him.
  I was nearly ecstatic when he declared he was going to make "Mother of Tears", his finale in the tale of the Three Mothers. When I finally bought and watched it, I was blown away by the unspeakable mess of a movie he just created. An utter bomb, completely unwatchable. But still, I didn't give up on the master.
  Now, with "Giallo", a movie that seems to have Argento's trademark right in the title, I felt this might just be a comeback for him. After watching it, I have to say that I've finally given up on the Italian Hitchcock. Although not as bad as "Mother of Tears", it's not much better. Argento has given up on creating artistic, dreamlike violence on celluloid and has just been offering us excessive bloody violence. No art, no style, just non-stop screaming, cussing, blood-spilling trash.
  I can see why Adrien Brody didn't want this movie to see the light of day in America. It's not because he didn't get paid (I believe he did). It's because he didn't want to be associated with this mess of a movie.
  Poor Dario, please just stick to producing movies from now on. God forbid your "Dracula 3D" ever gets finished. I can just imagine what that would be like: Look at that bat on a string coming out of the screen. A scene only Ed Wood could appreciate.
  The future of Italian artistic horror now solely lies in the hands of Michele Soavi. But, how long do I have to wait for "Catacombs Club"?