Having said this (my title) I am a lover of this wonderful sport, and think that this here is the greatest sports movie ever made, with Hoosier's a close second.

We all get to a point in our lives when we feel the magic and wonder in this world is gone.  The adventure we felt, growing up.. when everything was so much simpler and purer.  There's something inside each and every one of us that long's for a simpler way of life, and yearns to break out of the rut we find ourselves in, working day to day, same thing over and over again.

This wonderful movie is based on the incredibly well written novel by WP Kinsella, Shoeless Joe.  For anyone who hasn't read this and loves this movie, don't delay.  Back to the movie, there are so many reasons to love this movie.  Ray Kinsella, the farmer in the corn field who hears the voice, "If you build it, he will come," is your average, ordinary, every day joe.  And his life is turned completely upside down by this incredible vision he has one day in his corn field.  The "he" of the earlier statement, is at first percieved to be the great Shoeless Joe Jackson.  Joe Jackson was a member of the infamous Black Sox team of 1919, who were accused of throwing the World Series, and were banned for life from the game of baseball.  Ray believes that by building this field, he, and the other members of the Sox will be able to come back and play baseball again.  To "write an old wrong," as Ray states.

Ray sets out on an incredible journey, going all over the country to interpret this revelation.  The way the story is shot, with Ray going between reality, and dream like moments is incredible.  You can't help but get goosebumps when he meets up with Moonlight Graham in Minnesota.

At the end of this movie, Ray ultimately realizes that the field wasn't built for Shoeless Joe to play ball again, but rather for him to share that moment with his father that he never did, a simple game of catch.  It's a beautiful story that can have even the most seasoned movie goer in tears at the end.

This movie is so wonderfully produced, and is one of my 10 favorite movies of all time.  I watch it every year, come baseball season, and at least a couple times later in the year too.  We all need this movie, and the ideals it promotes.  There is a simpler way of life, and we'd all be better trying to obtain it!