this 1971 movie, based on the famous 1939 anti-war novel of the same name by Dalton Trumbo makes a powerful and obvious statement about the horrors of war, but I also think that it makes an impassioned statement about the need to treat people with disabilities, no matter how profound, with dignity and humanity.

As the film opens, a team of doctors stares down at the breathing but otherwise completely incapacitated victim of enemy shelling. The unidentifiable soldier, we learn as he does, has lost both of his legs and arms, as well as most of his face. More importantly, the medical diagnosis is that he has lost nearly all of his brain function, except for the autonomic brain stem function which keeps him alive. The doctor in charge calls him "decerebrated" (lacking in higher brain functions) and orders that he be kept alive and cared for so that they can see what they can learn from him.  He further commands that the staff involved in the care of the patient not become emotionally involved with him, as he cannot think or feel anything at all. The young GI, it turns out has a very active mind, and throughout the two hours of the film experiences thoughts, flashbacks, dreams and desires, although he is unable to hear or see or communicate.

Once he was whole and active as any other young American male. He was Joe Bonham, caught up with the desire to "make the world safe for democracy" and do his part in by serving his country to fight in The Great War. He seemed to have a romanticized view of the war, and he had no second thoughts about leaving his family behind, even though his father was dead. He had no problem leaving his girlfriend, Kareen, behind either, even though she repeatedly begged him not to go. She was sure he will be killed, but this did not bother him. What he never considered is that a fate perhaps worse than death itself could await him.

In between the flashbacks and vignettes, we see the patient lying on a hospital bed mostly covered. He has a blanket or sheet over what is left of his body. His face, except for his forehead is covered by a mask. His curly hair and his neck with a breathing tube are visible. He struggles with trying to find out what happened to him, where he is, how much time passes, and how to communicate. I find it interesting the doctors insisted that the patient be sequestered away from everyone else to such an extreme that he ends up in a storage room with even the windows shuttered and the door locked. If he moves around too much they give him a sedative. Basically he is just considered to be a lump of flesh.

(sorry for some spoilers). Eventually a nurse opens the window and he can feel the sunlight on his face. Eventually another nurse feels compassion for him and touches him lovingly. He exults as he learns to interpret the letters which she draws on his chest, spelling out "Merry Christmas". He finally thinks of a way to communicate by tapping his head in Morse Code. Medical staff, including the original doctor are brought to his room to witness this communication. Now that they know that he is a thinking, feeling man, does this bring him more humane treatment and end his isolation? Will he find a reason to want to continue to live?  These questions and their answers are what make the ending of this film interesting, and I think have insight for our treatment of the severely disabled in general.