I Recently introduced my Wife to Lonesome Dove. At the end of this 6 hour long mini-series when Woodrow F. Call walks across the bridge as the credits begin to roll she turned to me and said, "is it all over? I wanted it to keep going!" That statement is a great testimony to what a wonderful and moving story Lonesome Dove is.

This star studded movie is lead by the brilliant acting of Academy Award winning actors Robert Duvall and Tommy Lee Jones as Captains Augustus McCrae and Woodrow F. Call, two former legendary Texas Rangers who embark on an epic journey from Texas to Montana to build a cattle ranch. Filling out this televised mini-series is other Academy Award winning actors including, Angelica Huston, portraying Clair Allen, Gus MaCrea's long lost love, and Chris Cooper, as Arkansas Sheriff July Johnson. Academy Award nominee Diane Lane portrays the sweet yet tragic Miss Lorena Wood who is trying to over come her current profession and find a more respectable life. Another Academy Award nominated actor, Frederick Forrest plays the evil half-Indian Blue Duck. The rest of the cast is a list of equally impressive actors; Danny Glover, Rick Schroder, Robert Urich, Barry Corbin, Steve Buscemi, Glenne Headly, and D.B. Sweeney.

The movie revolves around and is sustained by Duvall and Jones's characters. These two embody these characters and bring them to life as no others could. With a roller coaster ride of human emotion along the way, viewers will be drawn into this spectacular story and the rest of its captivating cast of characters as they live out the drama of this epic journey. The story is creatively woven as the synchronicities of each of the characters lives become entwined with one another. This movie will transport you back to the splendor and the tragedies of life in the American West of the 19th century and it will reveal why this time period holds such a fascinating hold on the minds of people today. This mini-series is a classic and it deserves to be. The quality of this movie is equal to, if not surpassing, any feature film that has been produced by Hollywood studios.