This film is a compilation of Chomsky lecture snippets which mostly appear to be from his trip to McMaster University in Canada. In each segment, Chomsky speaks with an omniscient voice and with phrases of total authority. The director of this film interviews a professor along with Chomsky's wife who both attest to the fact that he reads everything all day long. Presumably, that is why he seems to know everything even though most of the stuff he speaks of could never be known by a private citizen. He has no access to the President, the State Department or the Department of Defense so is in no position to be reporting on most of the things he claims. What he refers to here is inside information that could not be obtained from perusing newspapers and magazines.

He is more than happy to share a score of flawed and fallacious claims with his listeners, indeed, the lies abound. The worst argument of all made here concerns the role of the press during the Cold War. Derek Rasmussen is quoted as saying that our journalists were cowardly for criticizing the Russians as we should have let their media do that and just focused on our own government. I guess this is evidence of the common leftist notion of "alternative patriotism"--which basically means systematically attacking your own country outside a frame of reference. With the Soviets, as we know, they had no journalists capable of criticism. The Soviet Union was a totalitarian country. There was no free speech and no free press; talking out meant going to the Gulag and/or death. One would hope that a realization of this might have caused some leftists to juxtapose the USSR with America, and then to develop an appreciation for their own country. But, as we all know, this never happened during the Cold War.

Chomsky claims that the 2001 Tax Cuts were "for the rich," but, of course, they were not. The cuts were given to anyone who paid taxes. The rich, just as with the poor, got paid back a set percentage of what they paid in. That the rich paid more in taxes, and therefore got a higher amount back is a reflection of progressive taxation (something which the left is devoted to). Had the poor got more back than the rich would have meant that they were unfairly taxed--which they were not.

He also claims that we once supplied Iraq with Weapons of Mass Destruction but we never did. In fact, throughout the seventies and eighties, we gave them very little, and practically nothing aside from a few helicopters. Most of his other claims are risible. He states that George W. Bush wants to phase out education when he has done the exact opposite with No Child Left Behind. The Bill has spent far more money on education than any other Bill in history. Bush has thrown more cash to Educrats than any other President.

Chomsky's defense of public schooling and social security showcase that, with leftists, emotion always trumps reason. Rather than acknowledge that the people are sick of spending more and more money on low grade educational institutions, this great sage morphs the argument into it being those who care versus those who do not. He does the same thing with Social Security. The question, "are we supposed to care about the old lady down the street?", becomes his justification for endless Social Security at any level of taxpayer proposed indemnity. His is not a serious mind. Talking about government programs in an emotional manner is never the recipe for fixing them or making sense of them. No service delivery can improve when bureaucracies are described in moralistic terms. When the extent of one's analysis is, "don't you care about the old lady down the street?", you fail to have anything meaningful to say about government.

The filmmakers try to portray Chomsky as a Saint. Two sympathizers are interviewed who imply that his life has been endangered by right-wingers due to his dissent. I guess that applies to me because I'm a right-winger who is not a Chomsky fan. In fact, I think he's a disgrace and laughingstock, but why would anyone want to hurt him? The guy is a joy to refute and ridicule. Making fun of him is a righteous experience. Besides, it is the emotion-addled left who are the sources of violence in our society--see anti-globalist actions and protests. This is only to be expected because violence is the predictable result when people are so deluded that they regard America as being a racist, sexist, state. Why wouldn't they be violent when they hate the land into which they were born? Chomsky is a lost cause, but all sensible people should join together as one to rebuke this anti-American scourge.