In my opinion, Godfather II is THE greatest film of all time, yes, even greater than the first one. Before labeling what I've just said as heresy, hear me out. While this film depends a lot on it's predecessor, it not only manages to match it's level, but bring to a higher plateau. After Francis Ford Coppola establishes the background and characters in episode I, he brings us deeper into these characters and their pasts. Pacino, who in my opinion gave the most OUTSTANDING performance of anyone in episode I (yes, including Brando) does the impossible and gives one that is even greater. It is an absolute TRAVESTY that he was not awarded for his performance (Art Carney received it that year for "Harry and Tonto"...who knew!!??) and Deniro was. What Deniro has basically done in his portrayal of the young Vito Corleone is mimmick every move that Brando made in the prequel down to the most miniscule detail (notice the scene where Deniro is shown buying fruit at a small stand...look familiar?). But while his performance is not original, it is still excellent. The film is filled with numerous great scenes. In most films, the viewer is given one or perhaps two memorable scenes (ie taxi scene for "On the Waterfront" or the mirror scene in "Taxi Driver"). But in this, there is the Senator Geary scene with Michael during the party, the scene where Vito stalks Fanucci, the heartbreaking (in my opinion greatest scene of film history) betrayal scene with Michael and Fredo, the argument between Michael and Kay, and countless other's which i won't give away to spoil it for first-time viewers. At the heart of all the violence, betrayals, and plotting, I believe Coppola wants us to really concentrate on this one man Michael Corleone who thinks he is doing the right thing with all his cold-hearted acts because he firmly believes it is for the good of his family. The most tragic aspect of the film, is that in attempt to protect his family through a life of violence, we see that Michael ultimately loses them due to the it. The scenes with Pacino, Strasberg, and Deniro are ESPECIALLY well acted out. The music is stirring and the settings and backgrounds beautiful. The film garnered 6 academy awards and was nominated for many more. To put it into words, i would describe this film as having the visual and musical beauty of "Lawrence of Arabia", the characteristic intellect of "Citizen Kane", the seriousness of a film like "Taxi Driver", the memorability of "On the Waterfront", and a high standard of excellency in acting that is unmatched by any other film.