In spite of the scant attention that Hollywood has paid to Spike Lee's "Malcolm X," there can be no denying that it was one of the decade's best films, right up there with "Sense and Sensibility" and "Saving Private Ryan." The cast is marvelous, the writing is superb, the music is intoxicating and the cinematography is downright unbelievable. Without a doubt, this is Spike Lee's greatest film, and one for which he truly deserved more acclaim than he ever recieved. But Hollywood is a place where you have to get in line if you want to succeed, and Spike's buck-the-system political outlook has always made things difficult for him in Tinseltown. There is something about Lee's public persona that makes whites uneasy, and no place is whiter than the Hollywood backlot.

But back to Malcolm X. If this is Lee's best film, its also Denzel Washington's. Sure, he made us wince in "Training Day," but the challenge here is a much greater one. Here, Denzel has to portray a well-known figure who has mostly been reduced to a stereotype. His job is to break through that stereotype, while still providing us with a realistic look at Malcolm the man. I would say that Denzel pulls that off remarkably well.

In part, he's able to do that because of the writing. Certainly, some of the autobiography has been compressed for dramatic purposes, but the spirit of the work dominates the film. In spite of all the quibbling and hair-splitting one could do over the minor details, the fact remains that the movie is highly faithful to Malcolm's life and work. Perhaps the biggest revision is the character of Baines, wonderfully portrayed by Albert Hall. Baines is an amalgamation of several characters in the autobiography, including Malcolm's brother Reginald, and without him the film would fall apart. This is clearly one of those instances where the writers do an excellent job of changing the facts in order to tell the truth.

Denzel and Hall aren't the only ones who turn out excellent performances. For many audiences, this was their first glimpse of Angela Basset, the dark-skinned beauty who plays Betty Shabazz, as well as Delroy Lindo, who has made a career out of playing unsavory characters. His portrayal of West Indian Archie is as intimidating as it is engrossing. He clearly comes across as someone you would not want to cross paths with.

As for the DVD itself , one wishes there were more features, such as a director's commentary or perhaps a documentary on the making of the film. I imagine that the movie will eventually be digitally remastered, with 16-bit image processing, THX sound and all of that, but there is no telling when that will happen. Perhaps when it does, Spike Lee and Denzel Washington will be kind enough to sit down and cut a commentary track. In the meantime we'll just have to make do with what we've got. But with a film as good as this one, there's little room for complaint.