*SPOILERS*

"Shattered" begins with a woman waking up hearing something from in the house, and stealthily going downstairs.  She turns on the light and finds her husband with her birthday present.  They embrace and turn to find their little daughter watching them.  Off to bed they go.  The next morning is a typical one in the life of the Randalls of an upscale Chicago suburb.  Lovely house, beautiful little daughter, Abby's nice friend arriving, Neil being charming and heading off to work.

But the menacing music as we pan over the tall buildings of Chicago, clue us that all is not as it seems as we are soon to discover.  We zoom in to see a man in dark clothes looking through binoculars, as Neil walks along the street below.

Neil Randall (Gerard Butler -"300") is shown in the next scenes to be narcissistic as he fixes his hair in the elevator mirror;  a shark at work who undermines his colleague while pretending to help him; and a flirt - if not worse.

After a romantic dinner that evening with "our song" in the background, the next morning we see Abby (Maria Bello - "History Of Violence") and Neil welcoming the babysitter, and leaving for the day in the city.

On the freeway husband and wife have minor chit-chat, when suddenly from the seat behind a man rises up with a gun.  And a very terrifying announcement - "I've got your child."

This is Tom Ryan (Pierce Brosnan) and over the rest of this day he terrorizes the couple by making them do everything to dismantle their successful life.  Our job as viewers is to figure out the motivation of this guy.  What does he want?

Neil is the "shattered" one by the end.  But Ryan will never be whole again, nor will Abby.  This story is of revenge, hate, distrust, infidelity and psychotic behavior.  So who does shatter a butterfly by using a cannon?

Only those crazed by all of the above.

I give this 7/10 and think it is a real 'water-cooler' film.  Discussions of cheating and the consequences should abound.

This review is of the version shown on TNT HD.

Jane