The argument for purpose - the basic one which this DVD seeks to profess, exists in a basic false duality. The first five minutes casually represent science as a worldview that is governed by what they call a "principle of mediocrity" - and by extrapolation, the idea that "nothing is exceptional" or "nothing is significant." This is a philosophical typification that lacks any depth, and overlooks the actual thoughts and opinions of scientists. The film is not really concerned with such matters, of course, the "principle of mediocrity" being basically a polarized straw-man for the relativistic perspectives of astronomy and science. Throughout the film, this opening designation serves as a shallow waste receptacle. Clearly, the producers think in basic dualities- in this case the notion of "Incidental" or "Accidental," which they disingenuously present science itself as holding - versus the teleological stance of "Design" and "Purpose." This film goes on to raise up the latter position, in order to shadow the former, all the while being a daftly oversimplified endeavor in and of itself. This basic lack of philosophical depth or dynamic inquiry betrays the film's true role - that of subtle "trojan horse" proselytizing for a belief in an interventionist creator and designer. This signature is distinctly Judeo-Christian, yet this film purposefully mutes most indication. I find this somewhat dishonest.

This film best illuminates modern religious thinking, along the lines of the recent "Intelligent Design" philosophy, a modern clone of the same age-old teleology which constantly pulls at the emotional centers of the human psyche. It is no surprise that a philosophy such as "Intelligent Design" is popular and appealing to Western culture (particularly the USA), which is steeped in both interventionist deities who literally interact with their believers, and prophetic religious thought. The USA also tends to exhibit intellectual difficulty / aversion to relativistic concepts requiring broad educated perspective, and with complexity itself. The perceived 'complexity' of something is not a function of the object being observed, rather, it depends only on the level of knowledge / capacities of the observer! History routinely shows this, as the tyranny of physical evidence, and increased systemic understanding prevails consistently. Thus, here we find another modern "god of the gaps" injected not into the territory of the unknown, but into the area of complexity, betraying the same sort of incredulity. This film also shows the highly provincial paradigms that have resulted from these elements of thought. Logically, how are we even to distinguish designed from un-designed in a non-comparative sense? Each of these distinctions relies on basic familiarity with the other. Now of course, design theorists do this routinely, applying their skills to palpable territory- such as archaeology and geology. Yet clearly, the film's philosophers for "design" are not design theorists in any true, palpable, scientific, or even earthbound sense. They allude to the detection of supernatural design, merely by saying "it's highly complex," and completely bypassing all the logical steps to that conclusion (and hoping the layman audience won't notice). Despite what they may say about the "mediocracy" or "materialism" of science, logically, their very own argument doesn't fly at all when broken apart into it's own basic assumptions. The public rarely goes deeper than this argument's superficial, emotional aire of "divine" coherence.

The film's boldest (and daftest) attempt to push it's point is with a series of "prerequisites" for complex life, each assigned a numerical value. The purpose of this is to depict a sense of astronomical unlikelihood as to the coalescence of all the known "factors" required for complex life. To the scientifically literate mind, this section is quite unscientific. While indeed some of these prerequisites are accepted by astrobiologists (the science of developing life) as applying universally, many are not, being arbitrary or premature suppositions. Human beings are in fact comprised of the most common elements in the universe, in the same relative ratios as they occur in the universe. We are carbon-based, and carbon also happens to be the most chemically active, and dynamic element in the universe. In only the last 10 years alone, we have already observed 400 extrasolar planets - mainly large ones detectable by their sheer gravitational pull on parent stars. Solar systems are in fact routine among medium class stars such as ours. All this comes only from observing our own stellar neighborhood, a very miniscule part of our enormous galaxy. It will likely turn out that life itself is routine also, as our technology becomes even more refined as to detect it's traces - but to be perfectly fair it is too soon to know, and as such, imprudent to say for sure. The film conveniently leaves out such basic modern observations such as this, which would of course keep things in good, level scientific perspective. One of the most ridiculous "prerequisites" - the existence of large planets in a solar system to shield small ones - is a view as arcane as it is laughable. One of the liabilities of our solar system having large planets with immense gravitational influence, is that they can actually direct asteroids into earth's path [See: BBC "Wonders of Our Solar System," Episode 4). Also, by only it's proximity, the moon does a much better job of "deflecting" space matter than any distant planet ever could! The logic behind the "large planet" point alone should send out a gigantic red flag.

There is so much that we don't know about the universe; it is a true frontier, of an unimaginable scale. Despite centuries of terrestrial advancements, astronomy is yet still in it's infancy, often defying our understanding and expectations. Our hypotheses of gravity & star formation indicate that we should expect to find old stars in the tumultuous center of our own galaxy- and yet we find young ones. Astrobiology is itself practically a brand new science, being mere decades old, and drawing from studies of astronomy, chemistry, biology, and abiogenesis. What would be strangest according to astrobiology, and perhaps most indicative of outside 'design,' is not the obvious fact of complex life existing in a stable system where it is expected. If we find life where we would not expect it, that would be something truly unique- perhaps like the extreme-ophiles on the sea floor of earth, which exist against all odds. These interesting new sciences are just budding, and constantly changing as input from almost all fields of science comes in. This film is neither illuminating, in depth, or accurate on any of these important/related subjects, instead glossing over such basic knowledge and observations about the universe, with such a basic lack of curiosity. There are many facts which the audience must be familiar with, in order to have any substantial perspective of what is being said. In fact, this film depends on a certain ignorance in it's audience.

This film follows the expected two-model pattern so common to creationism, leaving most who watch it with the false sense that they ought to have "one" point of view, or "the other" - or choose one "side" or "the other." The logically false two-model idea, that if one side doesn't know something, or points out some "weakness" in the other side, that somehow it defaults to the proposal of the "side" doing the criticism. This, of course, is fundamentally illogical. Yet, this film is not about provoking thought, but rather leading (or; misleading) it to a distinctly religious (and provincial) conclusion held by the producer. Anyone who is actually interested in the nuances of logic, critical, broad-perspective thinking, and science, cannot help but be simultaneously amused and chagrined at this "pop-culture" dispute that exists in it's own unique intellectual vacuity. It is very sad indeed that people go on & on about these subjects, never able to exit the paradox of their own illusions. Very sad indeed.