let's get this out o' the way up front - i LOATHE cop dramas (and courtroom dramas, and forensic dramas...).  so naturally i avoided this series until, when nothing else looked promising in the lokal library, i finally checked out season 2.  by the end, i was absolutely...well, addicted - add the fact that the show's theme song was written (and in this season) performed by amerikan musik ikon Tom Waits!  i quickly xchanged S2 for S5 (we don't have the entire show so i took what i could get).  despite the jarring jump i consumed the entire season after work in 2 late night sessions.  eventually i found S1, then 4, and i just finished with S3.  there is NO doubt that soon i will own the entire goddamned set, if only because this is an honest xamination o' the various glorious failures that have permitted hard-drug empires to flourish amidst the wreckage o' our collective prejudices and fears (and even our ever increasing need for escapism - see also the litany o' so-called 'justice dramas' currently rehashing the same tired theme o' the-good-'guy'-always-win BS that infects prime-time on any given night).  no, this series truly lives up to the hype; rewarding the viewer in ways every viewer deserves - yet RARELY xperiences

do yourself a favor - do NOT judge this book by it's cover; and make no mistake, 'the wire' IS destined to become a klassik, outliving - deservedly so - 99.9% o' the junk food that is modern television (even among hbo's impressive offerings, none has impacted me as deeply as has this series).  i cannot say enough about this project's commitment to quality in every respect, and i run the obvious risk o' repeating what others have already said here...better.  suffice it to say, i look forward to seeing this whole drama unfold as it was intended one day in the near future (but NOT with this box set - which i think actually dumbs down the original packaging...i will GLADLY pay more for the individual sets...)

it's not just hbo; it's the real f'n deal!  ya feel me?!!