How could I not love this movie?  -  It is so full of beauty, so full of love and the entire spectrum of human emotions.  It has suspense and mystery.  There is the beautiful music, of course, and the beautiful  photography presenting us with wonderful sceneries and what appear to be  perfect snapshots into historic times and places. Then there is the unique  way in which the story pogresses.  We are not merely following the life of  this masterfully constructed violin through the centuries.  Each time we  jump to another time and place we also return to the presence where the  violin is part of an auction of musical instruments of extraordinary value.  And each time we are confronted with the presence we see just a little bit  more of the auction and all the events surrounding it. Thus we march not  only through time but also follow Samuel L. Jackson in his attempt to  verify that he is indeed dealing with the famous "Red Violin". As  much as I enjoyed the way the story was woven, as much as I loved the  music,  as much as I feasted my eyes, I was even more moved by the films  message, - a message of love. There is a father who wants to give his yet  unborn child all of his love and the gift of music. As a violin maker he  does this the best way he knows how - in the form of an instrument.  The  perfect violin.  Perfect because it will hold all the love he feels for his  wife and all the love he already feels for his child, all of his wishes,  and dreams for his child, all of his plans and thoughts.  When he looses  them both during the child's birth he can't help but to also put all of his  sorrow and pain into the violin.  Over the centuries,  in one way or  another, the knowledge, the wisdom and all the emotions contained in this  perfect instrument influence its players and owners, - the violin, in turn,  absorbs their feelings and emotions.  And while the maker of this violin  was never able to give this gift of love and music to his child, the  violin's destiny may yet be fulfilled. Find out out for yourself, by  watching this wonderful film.