A bit about the film: it's charming.  It's colorful.  It's greenwood.  Robin's bow is Native American.  And Robin really sums up the ideology of the English/Scottish ballads, of the type of the 'fair warrior' or 'hynde child' which Robin Hood is traditionally made out to be.

The firstan weed that he drew on (weed-cloths)
It was o' the linen clear
The nextan weed that he drew on
It was a weed o' weir (war)

The nextan weed that he drew on
It was baith good iron and steel (both)
Twa gloves o plate, a golden helmet, (2)
became that hynde child weel (well)

Or:

He decked his men in Lincoln green
Himself in scarlet red
Fair of his chest then was it seen
When his silver arms were spread.

The 'Adventures of Robin Hood' is definitely (from my perspective at least) something which nobody should miss out on.  (!!!)  It inspired me at least, on my first watching some 3 to 4 years ago, to begin researching the Robin Hood legend in hopes of finding out how old he was, mostly due to a Welsh wren song I had just learned which went like this:

Ble'r ty myn, medda Dibbon wrth Dobbin
Ble'r ty myn, medda Ricart wrth Robin
Ble'r ty myn, medda Sion
Ble'r ty myn meddar nefar beyond.

'Where are you going, says Dibbon to Dobbin, Richard to Robin, Shaun, and the never beyond.  Answer: I'm going to the woods to hunt the wren!

So I noticed there was a Robin and a Shaun (Little John) and that got me started on a long trail, which ultimately owes its inspiration to this film!

There's English versions too:
(Oh where are you going said Milder to Moulder
Oh we may not tell you said Festel to Fose
We're off to the woods said John the Red Nose
We're off to the woods said John the Red Nose) and they mention Robin too ...

One of the fun points from the film would be where Robin is caught and about to be hung, and he looks around him and sees all his friends ready in the crowd.  That is from the original legend, but the story is usually preserved in Scottish songs, not English, so no idea where the moviemakers got it.

Another bit of fun is Robin's duel with Little John (great action there, but it ought to be sword, not quarterstaff) his sword-duel with Friar Tuck (which ought to be quarterstaff!) and his leaping from a tree before the bishops. (Very appropriate.)  He's King of the Woods, completely.

If you get it, I'm going to bet you'll enjoy it!  [...]