Blades of Glory spins a delightful yarn about two feuding figure skaters who, having been banned from the sport for fighting during an awards presentation, must team together in order to continue competing and restore their credibility. Will Ferrell plays a hairy-chested manly man who is outwardly tough and sexually crazed but turns to often-hilarious binge drinking to ease the pain from his deep insecurities, and Jon Heder plays Napoleon Dynamite playing a fay, orphaned skating wunderkind.

So, you have an idea of what to expect. However!, do not dismiss this movie as more of the same, because, while it is more of the same, it's more of the same done exceptionally well. Ferrell's lines are delivered with precision and laser-guided timing and Heder is actually very well suited to play the girl of the pair. The bottom line is, the setup provides ample opportunities for these two to play off of each other, and the movie nails nearly every chance they get. The skating scenes feature just enough homoerotic INNUENDO! to keep the most immature of us amused and there's some solid physical comedy to boot.

They really use the setting to its full potential, successfully skewering everything from Olympic mascots to ________ on Ice shows. If writing funny scenes containing these things is shooting fish in a barrel, Blades of Glory just launched the barrel into the sun and then blew up the sun anyway for good measure. Drawbacks are minor, thankfully. The movie hits a minor rough patch transitioning between plots point but generally moves along at a much better clip than either Anchorman or Talladega Nights. In fact the movie just plain kicked Talladega Nights` tail. The soundtrack is a regrettable non-factor, with the exception of the songs actually used for the skate performances. Which are superb.

The one other gripe to be had is the misuse of some great comedic actors. The cast features a fool-proof bit performance from Will Arnett but doesn't quite take advantage of Amy Poehler or Craig T. Nelson. Rob Corddry continues the losing streak he began on The Winner by doing a poor imitation of Jack Black. See also: Wasted cameos. Team Pam will be happy to know that Jenna Fischer essentially plays Pam, except this Pam is in a wonderful universe in which Pam wears frilly lingerie.

So if that isn't enough for you to see the movie, fans of lingerie, you may very well enjoy it for myriad other reasons. There are explosions, chase scenes, intrinsically funny skating outfits and some surprisingly well done genre satire. Don't bother if you're annoyed by The Will Ferrell Role or overblown, perpetually devolving pop comedies, but do bother if you want to have some laughs at the cost of elitist nerds calling you a conformist lame College Guy. It was better than I expected and not at all a bad way to spend a night.