So I bought this movie on a bit of whim. I bought it on DVD and then the Amazon rental came with it (some promo they are running - you get a free rental of the movie you just bought), so I do not have an opinion on the quality of the disc or any special features because I have not yet received it. But the movie... Oh the movie...

I'm not much of a sci-fi fan or Freddie Prinze, Jr. fan, but I am a Matthew Lillard fan and I liked Star Trek (2009). So, taking that into account, the movie was not half bad. I had no idea there was a video game or series until I read the reviews on here, so I'm really taking the movie at face value, BUT having seen Star Trek and a few other sci-fi films (like Star Wars and Transformers) and TV shows (like Eureka and Firefly), this one was not an "A" movie. The acting was okay - FPJr overdid it just a tad and some of the scenes were just not really believable. They could have spent a little more time developing the relationships between the characters. All you really got was this revealing conversation and boom they're BFFs. In Lillard's and Ginny Holder's case, it wasn't even an entire conversation and boom they're lovers! Although it was fairly short, I liked Lillard's relationship with Holder, though. They kind of brought a little relief from the "space talk" and the "your father was a good/bad man" and all that drama FPJr had.

Basically, this is your average space movie with aliens (although, again, having not seen the previous stuff on this, I had no idea they were even fighting aliens until about 9 minutes before the movie was over) and a complicated relationship between the male and female lead. They win, the aliens get destroyed and everybody (well, excluding those who died, of course) goes home. It was pretty good quality, as far as the film is concerned, but it WAS made in 1999, which just made everything click for me. It's not the green screen, computer animated stuff we've got in EVERY movie today. They had a little less to work with, but pulled it off. I liked it and feel it was worth my time.