Robert Altman either does it very well or not well at all. MASH vs Nashville (too grandiose, too much material with little substance). As a fan of westerns who maintains a collection just of that genre, from "The Oxbow Incident" to "Unforgiven", I have always considered this one of my favorite movies. In fact even from a nonwestern viewpoint, it is one of my favorites.

I have never been a Warren Beatty or Julie Christie fan but they make this movie. It might be one of those situations where usually mediocre actors combine to make something of outstanding chemistry. A gestalt type of thing. George Kennedy won an Oscar for "Cool Hand Luke" but never again did anything to equal what he did in that role. Harper Lee never wrote another novel, much less anything as great as "To Kill a Mockingbird". In music they are referred to as "one hit wonders". but this is not about the filmographies of Beatty or Christie. They are at their best because although they are the leading characters and carry the film, they never overdominate the movie. As the main characters we need to and want to know about them but in typical Altman fashion, there are supporting characters who hold our interest between the Beatty/Christie scenes.

I thought the softness and subtle brownish-gold overtones of the cinematography combined with the soundtrack was as important to this movie as much as the character portrayals were. It has, as another reviewer described, a daguerreotype sense to it. This tone is not prevalent throughout every scene of the movie but it definitely sets the mood. The starkness of other scenes such as in the larger town where negotiations are to be held is also a sustaining mood setter. The soundtrack is excellent. Leonard Cohen is an exceptional poet/songwriter. I once read that the songs in the movie were not written for the movie but fit right in. Perhaps Altman had them in mind as he wrote the screenplay. The songs are haunting and befit the mood of the cinematography as well as the theme of the film.

"McCabe and Mrs. Miller" didn't kill the genre, it enhanced. It took twenty-one years for someone else, Clint Eastwood, to continue that enhancement in "Unforgiven". In my collection of westerns there are several John Wayne films but most,if not all of them, lack the flavor and spirit of realism of the true west that movies such as this movie and "Unforgiven" convey.