Forget that this movie is an alleged mashup of The Wire/The Departed and other crime dramas. This film stands on its own as a thriller from Brazil. Elite Squad: The Enemy Within is actually a sequel to <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001CDFY2I">Elite Squad</a>, but the film can be watched without knowing much of the backstory.

The BOPE is the state of Rio de Janeiro's special forces of the military police and Nascimento (Wagner Moura, with a stunning resemblance to Ray Liotta) was a Captain on the edge of burnout, eventually turning over the reigns to Matias (Andre Ramiro) so he can leave the force because his wife is pregnant with his first child.

All of that happened in the first movie 13 years ago. With that background, things didn't turn out as planned. Nascimento is now a Colonel in the BOPE. During a daring raid to control a prison riot, multiple high level drug dealers are killed. Nascimento's thrown under the bus by Fraga, a human rights worker who is now married to Nascimento's ex-wife and an influence on his stepson. However, popular support of Nascimento leads him to a promotion as an intelligence officer for the security services.  As BOPE takes down the drug lords of the favelas of Rio, Nascimento has to confront a worse sort of criminal: the ones that hide behind badges and suits.

Both Fraga and Nascimento find themselves at opposite ends of spectrum trying to combat a common enemy. They make for an unlikely pair, with Nascimento seeming that he's refraining from beating Fraga to death only out of respect for his ex-wife. The stunning amount of corrupt cops and politicians is hard to swallow, but it's the hidden underbelly to Rio's beauty.

The movie is high-kinetic, shot in a loose documentary style. It reminded me of The Shield in a way, with a gritty enough feel without going overboard like Michael Bay. There's a good discipline in the director's chair, and you'll probably be hearing Jose Padilha's name more as he gets work in Hollywood. The action scenes are well done, and quite bloody, showing that BOPE doesn't worry too much about civil liberties or shooting criminals in the back. It's a rough world, and only the strong can survive to go home. The movie functions as well as a political thriller as well as a police thriller.

While the movie is a great film on its own, I think you'd be doing yourself a disservice and by not watching the first Elite Squad. You'd truly get to understand the world that the characters inhabit, and find your feelings for the movie even more blurred.