While I wouldn't consider this to be my favorite anime series, I did enjoy watching it and found a lot of the storylines to be amusing and intriguing. There really isn't a main story here; basically, Kino rides around to different countries on her talking motorcycle, Hermes. Some people felt that in the english dub Hermes sounded like a pedophile, though I thought he sounded more like a chain smoker, but that's beside the point. I watched some episodes in Japanese with English subtitles, and other episodes with the English dub, and I could go either way as this series has probably one of the better English anime dubs. I watched the series in order, but you really don't have to, as the episodes can be watched in whatever order you wish to watch them in, for the most part (except for 6 and 7, as those are a 2-part episode). In that way, it is a lot like an American TV show, as it really does make very little difference what order you watch the episodes in.

Overall, while some episodes are better than others, I enjoyed the series and there were some very interesting countries that Kino explores with some very amusing, interesting, and bizarre customs. In this way the series does an excellent job in making the point that while in one society, certain actions might be considered strange, taboo, or reprehensible, in another culture they could be perfectly acceptable, or even the status quo. Most of the storylines also contain a twist at the end, which could be similar to a Twilight Zone twist. Many of these twists are easy to see coming, while others are unexpected, but they're not illogical and in no way nullify what went on in the story.

The DVD I got is the slimpack edition, which is nice because the series is only on three discs, and it doesn't take up much space at all. This edition has absolutely no special features whatsover other than some previews on the first disc, which isn't a huge deal to me as I buy DVDs for the movie primarily and special features are a secondary concern, though some people might have a problem with that. It doesn't have one of ADV's best transfers, as I started noticing horizontal lines along the picture on the second and third disc, though the sound quality is okay.

Overall, for the price tag, it would probably be worth it for you to check out if you're interested. As with any other episodic series (whether anime or otherwise), some of the episodes are going to be better than others, and in this series some of the episodes do seem to run a bit longer than they probably should have, given the kinds of stories it's telling, but it's still worth viewing.