As a former college professor, Seven Sisters graduate, and fan of indie films, I must admit I was not optimistic about this movie.  I was right.

Watching the movie, I was constantly reminded of The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, a brilliant movie about turn-of-the-century Scottish schoolgirls based on Muriel Spark's novel. Some scenes were eerily similar, such as the "girls" standing around an art studio, wearing little schoolgirl hats, giggling at a painting. Brodie girls giggled over sex; these women giggled over unfamiliar modernism.

Mona Lisa's theme seems familiar: progressive teacher influences students, questions traditional values, develops romantic interests, and fights insensitive administrators  The theme works in secondary school settings, like Brodie and Dead Poets Society,  because teachers can influence children of that age, especially in private schools.

In college, especially by senior year, faculty members play a lesser role among students, who learn more from peers.  A movie about college women entering a new age would be better focused on the students themselves.

Mona Lisa Smile includes some minor but annoying inconsistencies.  Art 100 would be a freshman course -- but most of the women seem to be seniors.  It's hard to imagine these women would be turned off by (let alone giggle at) contemporary art. Seven Sisters colleges have always been intellectually demanding, yet we never see these students studying or even speaking eloquently.  These girls resemble sorority sisters of Legally Blonde more than students at an elite college.

The scene where a married woman returns to campus after a two-week honeymoon seems especially silly. Wellesley students would expect consequences from failing to turn in a paper on time. Professors at top schools rarely count attendance toward a grade and publicly reprimanding a student -- especially in this mean-spirited, almost catty style -- would be inappropriate anywhere.

Watson wouldn't teach just one class -- she would have two or three more, each semester.  As an inexperienced teacher out of her element, she'd be overwhelmed.  And after a day of teaching, many professors eagerly seek companionship from other faculty so they can commiserate about their frustrations!

Even today, professors still must follow the departmental descriptions of their courses. When a class gets listed as "History of art from ancient times to the Impressionists," that's what you teach. You might bring in contemporary works to make comparisons but you can't go off on a tangent of your own.  It's unprofessional and possibly unethical.

Watson violates boundaries when she encourages a student to attend law school. Giving her an application -- even helping her complete the application -- seems legitimate. But, like many mentors, Watson became overly invested in her mentee's decisions.  Coming to the student's house with a handful of law school folders - that's way out of line.  So is touching students to make a point.  And I've never heard of a college that gives student files to professors.  Apart from logistics of paperwork in the pre-photocopy era, only advisors and administrators would be likely to have access.

The "old college days" theme would have worked well if a student had been the main character. Mary McCarthy's The Group, though dated, does give us a glimpse into college life in the era when women were free enough to experience some of the world, but not protected by birth control and social approval.  Wendy Wasserstein's Uncommon Women and Others shows student life at a women's college much later and with considerably more realism, humor and style.

Alternatively, we could get a realistic movie focused on a female college professor. She'd surely be scared about her own prospects in an alien world.  Gail Godwin's novel The Odd Woman captures some of that feeling -- but it's neither glamorous nor especially fun to watch.

In any case,  stories about "the way we were" rarely seem fresh anymore.  I recommend viewing the real thing. Track down a copy of The Best of Everything, a magnificent fifties period piece showing the working world these women would enter.

The ultimate irony: While Watson urges Wellesley women to take their careers seriously, she doesn't seem focused on her own.  Rather than crusading for a vague cause and gaining short-term popularity, she'd have done better to leverage her Wellesley experience for her own success. Then she'd help far more women over the course of her lifetime.