I kinda got sucked into a very interesting, yet disturbing, look at the judicial system by accident.  I thought it was based on Milton's work, but I am "pleasantly" baffeled byt suck a miscarriage of justice.  I wish I could actually see the entire trial and show law students and police officers what not to do.  ( Grisham move over, this is a wild one.)

If you can get past the murder of three young boys, the documentary is a glimpse of how our subjective our conclusions can be.

Why did the prosecution address music (specifically Metallica) during the trial, andwhy didn't the defense object? Is there a causational link between Metallica and murder?  Do many people murder because the listen to Metallica?  Did the victims speak out against Metallica?  IS there even a correlational link to Metallica and murder?  What did murderers listen to before Metallica?  Is there any other band more common amongst murderers?

The same questions can be raised about wearing black.  All of the band members of Metallica wear black.  Is it safe to say they are in an occult and, thus kill?  Billy Joel is a musician who wears black, too.  Every Judge and Priest wears black, but that is part of their work attire.  Does that exclude them?  Why is black the color of choice for murderers?  Why not red?  Red is the color of blood when it is exposed to O2.  Blue is the color of blood in the body.  Why not blue?  If it is occult realted, why not wear colors of your sect or group?

How can there be no evidence at the sceen of the crime?  The defense did mention this in discussion, but I don't know why they did not bring this up in the investigation.  That is more grand jury quetions, but it is important.  Were the kids murdered somewhere else, and if so, did the accused have the ability to transport them?  Was their mode of transprotation researched?  Was there any other evidence at the scene of the crime?  Was there anything on the shoe strings used to tie the knots? They said the blood was washed away, but was there any clothing of the suspects with traces blood?  Why did the killers clean the blood up, take the weapons, but leave the condoms?

The weapon evidence was a joke, too.  Why was a knife at the bottom of a lake considered the weapon?  How long had that knife been in the lake and was it available to be a weapon?  Was there trace blood on that knife?  Was there only one knife used?  What in the world were the police thinking when they dismissed the jack knife? How could the police walk away from a knife with a possible match to one of the victims DNA, and not question the conflicting stories of the owner of that knife?  How could the police and the prosecution ignore the fact that a stepfather owned this knife when majority of the abuses and homicides of a minor are conducted by a family member?

I do not know if these kids did this or not, but I think justice was not blind in this case.