I watched the BluRay last night on an OPTOMA DLP projector.  While it does look better than the DVD, it leaves A LOT to be desired.  First off, the film is at a 2:35:1 ratio, instead of 2.20:1, which is the correct aspect ratio for a movie shot on a 65mm negative/70mm printed format.  This leads me to believe that a 35mm source was used.  Second, AND BY FAR THE WORST, is the color shift from left to right in the WHOLE movie.  10% of the screen on the left and 10% on the right had different color density.  On my projector, the left had greenish tones, the 70-80% in the middle looked good, and the 10% on the right was pinkish.  During the night scenes, the pinkish on the right looked green, as if too much light was going through the film when it was projected.  This is completely unacceptable, especially for masterpiece!  Another thing I noticed is that jitter is noticeable during some scenes.  This also indicates that the transfer is not recent.  I would not be surprised if CBS used the exact same restoration, with no additional work, that was prepared for the 1994 laserdisc release.  The audio, while better than anything I have heard on home video, should also has been improved.  While there is a nice dynamic range, it still sound restrained, and there is a weird reverb added to the back speakers during musical numbers, as if this was an old Dolby ProLogic home theater effect that was kept.  After the movie is over, the closing credits are exactly the same as on the laserdisc box set, listing people who worked on the restoration with a 1994 copyright date.  When I bought the disc last weekend, the first thing that went through my mind when I picked up the packaging is that it looked like a bootleg.  So sad for such a distinguished movie!  Even though I had read the reviews, I bought it because it does look better than both the laserdisc and the DVD.  This is only because the bluray platform supports higher resolution, not because of work put into the film by CBS.  Oh well....maybe the rights will be transferred again and a more respectable studio will release it in the manner that "Sound of Music" was restored.