I am not a trained movie critic, nor did I go to the theater with any agenda other than to check out this movie, after seeing the scary, intriguing advertisements on T.V.  I was hoping the movie would be true to the pre-release hype, since so many movies give you the best lines, etc. in the commercials and then fall flat on the big screen.  Actually, I wasn't sure I was going to like it, since I really don't care for movies in the Western genre.  Well, what a tremdndous surprise I got!  Not only was this movie entertaining and fast-paced, it was a fabulous part for Jones, who for the most part has played hard-bit/un-emotional types.  In this film, the audience gets to see his range and some tenderness from his "tough guy" character.  I was very moved by his ability to maintain the toughness while showing emotion.  Also, it was very interesting to imagine what it must have been like to live in that day and time, particularly as a woman - these types of things really did happen, lending a touch of realism to a somewhat contrived plot.  VERY ENJOYABLE!  
There really is a little something for everyone:  Suspense, emotional strife (father-daughter, mother-daughter), action-packed battles (I've read some of the other reviews, which stated this was "violent".  I didn't find it to be overly violent, and really, that wasn't even an impression I had while viewing it OR afterwards) - classic "Good VS. Evil".  (Might be a little too scary for young children.)  The writing was excellent - these actors really had a lot to work with, and they were very well-cast.  And at the very end, when "Directed by Ron Howard" appeared on screen, I smiled to myself and thought, "Of Course!"  The quality bore out his well-deserved reputation as one of the fore-most directors of our time!  There is "buzz" about Oscar contention and I hope it's true - this project (and all those involved in it) is very deserving of that honor. 
My father (56 yrs.) and I (33 yrs.) saw the movie independently and both came to the same conclusion:  This film is one of the best we have EVER seen.  My only complaint:  not in the theaters long enough, especially since I have now told everyone I know that they MUST see it!  I can't wait to buy it and I encourage you to do yourself a favor - make the investment - BUY THIS FILM!