This is such an incredibly beautiful and thought invoking movie.
A lot of the themes and topics of discussion in the movie (which is more in form like the Dialogues that were oh so vogue with philosophers in the old days like Plato and so on) are by no means the sort of things you would overhear in a Mc Donald's or at the Blockbuster; discussions that if you were to bring them up with your friends at the bar it would most definitely sour the mood of those around you: reality, memory, the conflict of science and religion, death, and so on. There is most often too much white noise and distraction in our lives to bring out the things in the open that a lot of us think of within ourselves, and they end up being our pretentious little thoughts that have no true beginnings and endings. The ramblings of a consciousness that drifts towards a final destination, yet fades away in darkness- and so on. And so on. 
And so on- this movie is often remarked as being pretentious: going to many places at one time; never exactly sure what it's saying, so it says everything it can. Yet this is a film which explores those things in life which we may never have a hope of answering. How can you know death till you are dead? You can be as poetic and eloquent as you want, use your metaphors- you do not know a thing. All you can do is talk, and talk, and talk. And that is exactly what this movie does: talk. 
What truly disgusts me is that the Academy Awards (a "ceremony" which is far beyond that line of self-parody and is now bargain-binned into oblivion) overlooked this film in the Animated Feature category. I say overlooked loosely since it is obvious that this film is far beyond the minds of those who take such award shows seriously... No, how can you suggest that the nature of reality is of no importance to the average person?? Do those who hold no interests in art have no anxiety towards dying, as well?  Is there any less angst in some then others? This is a movie for every man, woman and child, about the things which we all wonder within and keep like a secret to ourselves. Have you ever wondered if a body sleeps and never wakes up after it dies? Of course you have. We cannot all be Zen masters, and hypnotize ourselves into not being afraid of what lies beyond the dark. This is a movie that brings those things out- and has been ostracized for it.  This is a movie (very much like Dazed and Confused) about being trapped and, triumphantly, escaping into... who knows? 
The last frame of the film, where the hero floats into blurring light is the end of this life. An end of bodily functions like intelligence which only add to the pretentiousness of living. It is an end that has a beginning. Raymond Moody, who has spent the better part of his life studying people on their deathbeds, those who were terminally dead for a few minutes, and so on- said something like "I don't really know what happens after you die. I don't think there is anything that really gives the experience justice you can say about dieing. After all these years, the closest I ever got to defining it is that its like watching TV for a long time, and then changing the channel- and even that by no means even scratches the surface of the true experience." Poe also said "All of this just seems as but a dream within a dream"