I really wanted to like this movie, but the movie wouldn't let me.  Sorry to disagree with everyone, but this movie is a real stinker.  I gave it 2 stars for the music and the cinematography.  To call this movie slow is the understatement of the year ... it moves like a sedated tortoise.  I really can't understand those people who say that this is the best film they have ever seen ... they can't have seen many films.  I have been watching films seriously for about 30 years, and have seen many great ones ... but this ain't one of them.
"Okay, wise guy, you didn't like it. Why?"  First of all, let me say that the first part, when the main character interacts with his brother, brother's wife, and his kid (who has been raised by his brother), is far better than the end, when he and his son search for his wife.  They find her in Houston by waiting outside a bank and following her car (why not try the phone book first?). Then, unexplainably, Travis leaves the kid with her while he takes off again (going to Paris, Texas?  Does he intend to come back?).  This, after spending much time re-establishing a relationship with his boy.  I'm not one that demands happy endings, but I do like endings that make some sort of sense.  I hear that much of the ending was unscripted, and it shows.
Dramas require tension, whether between characters or in the plot ("don't ever open the green door!").  This movie has none, which is a primary reason why it is so terminally dull.  Travis (Stanton) is a complex character, but is never fully revealed, and although we may feel sorry for him and his condition, he remains simply a screwed up individual.
Dramas also require some kind of contrast.  There is very little of that in the film in any respect.
Great dramas usually have great dialogue.  Don't look for any memorable dialogue here.  I don't expect Shakespeare, but the totally mundane, inane dialogue in this picture does not serve it well.  Shepherd could have done better. And the director must have been watching too many Antonioni films, with all the pauses and lacunae.
Acting?  Stockwell, as usual, does a good job.  Stanton is mute for much of the first part of the film.  When he does finally talk, his lines are delivered in a monotone that could put anyone to sleep.  Kinski, Travis' wife, is gorgeous, but doesn't have much of a role. 
I recently viewed "Scarecrow" with Gene Hackman and Al Pacino.  This is a truly fine drama.  "Paris, Texas" could have been a very good drama, but it would have taken a lot of tinkering.