Have you ever seen a movie so bad that you actually held your head in your hands, shaking it in disbelief? Ever see a movie SO UTTERLY AWFUL that you've gained a new level of respect for ED WOOD? Not the biopic about Ed Wood, but Ed Wood himself???

It has happened. I've seen a movie so inexplicably appalling that I'm in favor of mandatory mental competency tests being given to Hollywood directors, actors, and screenwriters before a frame of film is shot. This cinematic cold sore is The Ten. It's an allegedly comedic collection of short stories "based" on each one of the Ten Commandments [tee hee].

Let's see, where to begin: IT'S NOT FUNNY. Not in the slightest. The stories have little or nothing to do with the particular Commandment to which it's linked...unless, of course, one can truly draw a line from the "thou shall not covet thy neighbor's goods" ruling and connect it to two guys in prison making the beast with two backs (get the kids out of the room). Here's a sample of the dialogue, an argument between The Ten's host/moderator (played by, alas, Paul Rudd) has with his wife (Famke Janssen) in front of gigantic approximations of those TWO STONE TABLETS Moses brought down from Mt. Lebanon or wherever:

Man: You know what, Gretchen? You know what you can do?
Wife: Don't say something you're gonna regret.
Man: Go...
Man: Fly...
Wife: I'm warning you, Jeff.
Man: A...
Wife: Don't you say it!
Man [earnestly]: Go fly a kite, Gretchen! Go fly a kite!

Get a load of this: A street sign reads, "No Parking 8AM - 6PM Mon. thru Adultery." One cop says amid a gathering of policemen, "Maybe we should call the cops." OY, what a hoot! Plus there's plenty of ham-fisted humor about butt-banging, size of the male member, California Gov. Ah-nuld, Mexican farmers, the Rapture, and a Mexican guy named "Jesus" who's really...the son of G*d! Golly, what guffaws!

Further, Jessica Alba proves once again how gosh-awful CUTE and yummy-hot she is while displaying minimal acting ability. Winona R pours herself into a scene where she's passionately French-kissing a ventriloquist's dummy. Oh the humanity! I actually felt sorry for her. I would rather eviscerate myself with a rusty lawnmower than sit through Ten again.

If there's somebody you wish to excise from your life, to cast him or her into the Abyss of the Formerly Known, give that special someone a DVD of The Ten.  Give this wretched excuse for a "movie" to a friend and make an instant enemy.