In comparing "Saving Private Ryan" to "Twelve O'Clock High", a previous reviewer made a very strong case for "Twelve O'Clock High" being the better film. I agree 110%. Both were nominated for Best Picture and both lost, but "Twelve O'Clock High" is by far the better of the two if only because director Henry King didn't put his ego on display to ruin things. "Ryan",of course, won El Speilbergo a Best Director statue in honor of the most obvious, I WANT THAT AWARD!! "front loading" of a film in the history of motion pictures. "Twelve O'Clock High" features only one combat scene and that comes near the end of the film. Up until then you have great actors in a great film about tough decisions and how they need to be made in times of war. Gregory Peck takes over a "hard luck" bomber wing, makes some unpopular changes and whips the men into a winning team. My review makes it all sound so cliche', but please don't let that fool you. When it comes to the relationships between the characters, it's very much on a par with "The Best Years of Our Lives". It's such a great film about war that it doesn't even matter that there's just that one brilliant battle scene near the end where it belongs. Sure, Henry King could have "front loaded" the picture with lots of bombs and flying bullets to hook the audience from the get go, but he did what was best for the film. In my opinion, "Twelve O'Clock High" is one of the best WWII movies ever made because it focuses on the men and their fragile states of mind. It focuses on the all too real effects of war on the men rather than to showcase the war itself. It also benefits from the fact that it was made only four years after the war ended. There's just no substitute for the film having been produced while WWII was still fresh in everyone's mind. All the money in Hollywood couldn't buy that kind of authenticity today. So El Speilbergo spent most of his budget on that overblown frontloading of "Ryan" and snagged an Oscar in the process, while Henry King simply placed his masterful action scene where it worked best for the movie. Anyway, if you ask me, Henry King didn't do so badly after all. He didn't win an Oscar, but Dean Jagger did, which is one more than any actor in "Ryan" won. If Speilberg had really deserved that "Best Director" Oscar, then at least one of his actors should have won an Oscar too. So if you haven't yet seen "Twelve O'Clock High", buy it, borrow it or rent it. I've seen it no less than a dozen times and it's aways a pleasure to behold. ENJOY!