I want to make one thing clear in this review. My five-star rating is for the movie, not the Blu-Ray edition of the film. Having just watched it on my system in Dolby Digital 5.1 all I can say is one thing: THE TERMINATOR needs a SERIOUS remastering job.  Picture quality is barely any better than my own DVD copy. And unless you have a system that can do the audio in uncompressed PCM 5.1, there is absolutely no improvement in that area, either. If I have to rate the Blu-Ray instead of the movie, I give it only 3 stars instead of 5.

Now that that's out of the way, I'll get to the movie itself. It is a brilliant action adventure dealing with the subject of modern technology; it depicts a world where technology itself escalated to the point where we lose all control of it and it winds up destroying us. Watching THE TERMINATOR, it became clear to me that James Cameron wasn't lazy when it came to writing the screenplay. Every angle is clearly thought out, especially in how the events are linked; how one act is ultimately tied to another one.  In THE TERMINATOR, and every other film he has done since then, Cameron demonstrates how story and characters are the most essential thing to any great movie.

By now, everybody knows the story. In 2029, the world was all but obliterated in a Nuclear War. Machines were fighting a war against the human survivors. Then the machines, in a last desperate act, send an unstoppable killing machine: The Terminator (Arnold Schwarzenegger) back to 1984 to kill a young woman (Linda Hamilton) who will give birth to the man who will lead the human survivors in the war. At the same time, the humans send a young soldier (Michael Biehn) to protect the woman from The Terminator. The story is rather clever. If you really pay attention to the film, you'll discover what I was talking about in how everything that happens, from the future to the present, is completely tied together.

I remember when this movie was advertised on TV in October, 1984. It looked like a really wild ride of an action movie. I missed the opportunity to see it in theaters. I saw it for the first time on VHS tape the following year. I knew about Arnold Schwarzenegger as a champion bodybuilder, and also from the two Conan movies he did in 81, and 82. I thought he was a man with a great physique but a terrible actor. I didn't think he would ever be able to make a movie that didn't depend on his muscular body, until I saw THE TERMINATOR. We see him naked in his first scene, and that is that. Schwarzenegger had to actually act in a movie, and his task in this film is to make you believe he is this machine; that there is a metal skeleton underneath his flesh and blood. He succeeds this task with the way he moves his eyes, head, and body. Watch carefully and you'll see he never blinks except in one scene where he fires a handgun.

Another man behind the camera steps out to make us believe in Schwarzenegger as a machine when The Terminator is injured. That man is the late Stan Winston. There is a sequence where the Terminator is damaged and has to do some maintenance on his right arm and left eye. You see Arnold slice into his arm to work on the mechanism that controls his hand movements, and pull out his human eye from the socket, revealing a red metal eye. It is amazing how Winston makes this illusion completely real. I often wondered how in the hell he did it. (I recommend reading THE WINSTON EFFECT, which was published two years before his death in 2008; it shows exactly how this was all done.) We later see Schwarzenegger with additional damage to his face and more of the metal skull underneath. It never occurs to the audience that this is all a makeup effect. Everything is just so seamless.

At the time I saw THE TERMINATOR I thought it was one of the most violent motion pictures of the 1980's. It wasn't until I saw the other films Cameron wrote and directed, including ALIENS (1986), THE ABYSS (1989), and TERMINATOR 2: JUDGEMENT DAY (1991) I discovered something else about the movie after I watched it again: It is still a violent movie, but it is also extremely intense. The more intensity a motion picture delivers, the more it drives you to the edge of your seat. And that is something you cannot do with violence alone. That intensity became a pattern with every film Cameron has directed in the 28 years since THE TERMINATOR first came out. It made Arnold Schwarzenegger into a star, and James Cameron into a real director. He has been one of my favorite filmmakers ever since that day in 1985 when I first popped this movie into my VCR.