Before everyone gets all fired up, let me state for the record that I love the Sharpe novels and have always considered Sean Bean perfectly suited to the character on the screen. However, Cornwell and Bean should have passed on this concept. When Cornwell wrote most of the Sharpe series, one must assume he did not consider them as screen plays. During the original series made over 10 years ago, various adaptations were made to the story lines. It didn't necessarily make them any better adaptations to the screen than the original story would have been. In fact, on at least one occasion it made them downright silly (the Aztec gold episode, for example). However, at the time at least Bean could credibly play the character's age, and the story at least took place in Spain and Portugal during the Napoleonic Wars.

In the India volumes of the Sharpe series of novels, Sharpe is still in his teens, an enlisted man until he saves Wellington. However, Bean was too old to play a teenager, and the same problems would have applied with all of the other characters who appeared in those books. As a result, a historical anamoly had to be concocted so that everyone could go to India at a time when no such significant events were actually happening. Sharpe doesn't save Wellington. He doesn't have conflict with Hawkswill. Harper and Simmerson are there (they shouldn't be). The fact of the matter is, this is not a historical novel - it's a fantasy concocted about events that didn't happen, during a time when such events were not happening, solely to capitalize on the popularity of Sharpe and Harper. It comes across as the mish-mash it is. As someone who is quite fond of the series, even the earlier films, this movie was painful to watch. If they wanted to do a film about these characters, they should have done Sharpe's Devil, or even one of the later books involving the Napoleonic Wars - at least you could slap a toupee on Harper and pretend the actors are close to the age of the characters on the screen.

I give this two stars rather than one, because those who have never seen the prior series and are unconcerned with any historical relevance may be able to suspend belief for entertainment value. The acting and sets aren't bad - I just can't forget watching this how the money would have been better spent making a movie which is actually  based on the books. They were good books and would have made a good film.