Mata Hari arrived in Paris and soon began to spin a web of sorcery. Her naked body (that same body that was later to be riddled with bullets)her password to a greedy world of material success.Margaretha Geertruida Zelle MacLeod enjoyed a happy childhood in Holland the darling of a dotting father. Early restlessness brought her to Java, the mail-bride of a brute. There, in Indonesia, amid crushing tragedy and spousal abuse, Gertie absorbed the artistic concepts that will one day found her applauded, then, mowed down by a French firing squad. Poor judgment, and Eastern flair, and a gluttony for men, contrived to make her eternal. But was Gertie a spy? The visionary Irving Thalberg secured the rights to Mata Hari's notebooks and thus MGM began production starring Greta Garbo. I find this 1932 film a work of contrasts. To watch Garbo mise-en-scene through the lens of William Daniels, in a genial atmosphere assembled by Cedric Gibbons, rapturous, is truly a fine thing. MGM's 'Mata Hari' remains a unique accomplishment. Though one wonders how the silly story-theme ever passed Thalberg. There is a dichotomy here, style versus substance (a chronic blemish with some of Garbo's films) The developing narrative is puerile, and mind you, the early thirties boasts many a gritty film. More than an actress Garbo is a virtuosa, a poseur. Thus she offers art more priceless, a curious and singular spiritual apogee, such pulchritude and distinction. Watch her shoulders ache suddenly as she plays piano en-scene, as her stock-in-trade matinee idol grasps her from behind wantonly. Watch her match wits with Lewis Stone, tonight her spy-master. Watch Garbo in the third act climb the hospital stairs Adrian head-to-toe. Watch her watch her. But! if I hear Ramon Navarro one more time call her "...Mata!" I think I'd croak (her name is M-A-T-A-H-A-R-I) How many times I've seen 'Mata Hari' I'm ashamed to say. The last viewings have been in the wee hours where there reigns a sad and profound solitude. On cue Greta emerges, like Cybele, to temporarily soothe my ills. Soon, I hear a halting viola: "...I come to you Si-va! like the bayaderes dance in your sacred temples in Java...!" Mata Hari! Mata Hari! Mata Hari! Mata Hari!