At one point during the narration of "Elegy," Professor David Kepesh (Ben Kingsley) says, "When you make love to a woman, you get revenge for all the things that defeated you in life."

Think about that for a moment. Think about whether you really want to spend an hour and fifty-two minutes with the man who said it.

It is an hour and fifty-two minutes, because neither Kepesh, Consuela Castillo (Pen&eacute;lope Cruz) nor even any of the minor characters grow during this film at all. They get slapped about by life, love and their own weaknesses, but they finish just as shallow and empty as they begin, having learned nothing at all. Even that would be alright if "Elegy" made us feel their pain, but it doesn't.

I haven't read the Phillip Roth novella, "The Dying Animal," on which "Elegy" is based, but I can guess that it carries a current of bitterness and rage that was omitted from the film in a misguided attempt to make it more palatable. What's left is a lifeless picture about hollow characters. Why is David so attracted to Consuela? Presumably sex was the initial motivator, but even that is portrayed so blandly that it's hard to imagine this man-of-the-world is particularly excited about it. Why is Consuela attracted to David? His worldly sophistication would be the most plausible reason, but we never see him do anything much to broaden her world.

Late in the film, Consuela comes to David in a time of crisis. She is not an idiot, so she cannot be coming to him for support. (If you have already seen the film, recall the question she asks: whether he would still want something if a certain thing happened. Notice that he can't answer, and lacks even the good grace to fake it. She appears a bit disappointed, but, reasonably considering their history, not surprised.)

I believe this is meant to be a focal point of the story, but while I think I can piece together what I was supposed to feel, I didn't feel it while watching the movie. Consuela asks David to do something for her that she says she can ask only of him, and the product of this can be seen as the "Elegy" of the title, at least from her point of view. In his review of the film, Roger Ebert remarks that the fulfilling of this request is something he thinks "we might be better off hearing about, instead of seeing." I think the opposite is true. The scene is played so flatly and politely that we have to think about it later to understand how Consuela must have felt. We should have been made to feel it ourselves --- Consuela's pride and desperation, humiliation and rage, probably the first thing she ever really shared with David, the real reason he was the only one to whom she could come --- but this movie lacks the nerve to go there.

"Elegy" is a well-acted love story between two people who are not particularly lovable, who have no motivations we can see or feel to love one another, and who experience no insights or growth that would make them interesting. I suspect it was originally an ugly story; somewhere between the screenwriting and the direction it was softened, and that left behind a tale that has no real reason to be told.