Germany, 1942. Friedrich has just graduated high school with no prospects but the factory where his father has worked his whole life. He is distinguished from all others his age only by his superior skills at the local boxing club.

As the film opens, he arrives at the club and discovers that the club director has arranged a match for him against the best boxer from a nearby "Napola", one of sixteen schools created by Hitler for educating tomorrow's elite in the Third Reich. His performance wins him an invitation to enroll in the Napola. Friedrich's father, a staunch anti-Nazi, forbids it; but, with the possibility of boxing in the next Olympics enticing him, Friedrich disobeys his father and enters the elite Nazi school anyway.

As the story progresses, it becomes clear that the purpose of such "education" is to suppress naturally emerging individuality and moral character so as to produce interchangeable parts in the amoral Nazi machine. As was true in ancient Sparta, boys are punished not for doing bad things but for getting caught doing them. Boys who cannot, or will not, but in any event do not surrender their sense of self and higher moral standards either leave the school or commit suicide. When his best friend elects the latter course, Friedrich is forced to decide if he will make himself a good Nazi like Hitler or a good man like his father.

I can't imagine why Amazon and YouTube classify this as a "gay interest" film. One thing that they confess is that they have never participated in a tightly-bonded, all-male group, such as a sports team or a military unit; and so they actually don't know that they, as men, never learn what men are really like except in such groups. For their benefit, I tell them from experience that, yes, in groups men really do love each other; but the more that is true, the less likely it is that they have sex. It seems to me really sad the number of boys who grow to manhood never discovering that expressing physical affection rarely has anything to do with sex.