Based on the pulpy Jim Thompson novel, *The Grifters*  eliminates some of the book's sillier aspects -- problem is, there's not much of a story left.  Instead, we're given an ENDLESS series of flashbacks which, the filmmakers feel, must EXPLAIN these characters and how they got here, how they became who they are, etc.  When so much of your movie is constituted of flashbacks, you may very well doubt the viability of your story.  Another nit to pick:  director Stephen Frears mistakenly attempted to keep the book's snappy Post-War urban lingo intact, to say nothing of the basic lifestyle of the  "confidence game"  (a dead profession whose only remnant is that reliable stand-by, credit-card fraud.  "Big"  con?  Why bother?  Selling drugs is easier.)  He would've been better advised to either set the movie in its original period or make the characters talk like people living in 1990 Los Angeles.  The world of  *The Grifters*  seems unreal, or at least moving in a parallel universe . . . and surrealism's not the best tone to set in a crime movie.
I feel the acting's been overpraised, too.  Angelica Huston plays Lilly as if she's Lady Macbeth.  Some will say it's brilliant; I say it's irrealistic and reaches too much.  Annette Bening?  OK, lemme get this straight:  she's supposed to be a consummate con-woman . . . and yet, she has her hair done up a la Medusa, she's dressed like a tart, preening and purring all over the place like a cat in heat.  Uh, that's not a con; that's  "BAD GIRL"  in Vegas neon visible for miles.  (The point of a con-artist is to FOOL people.)  Say much the same for Huston's 1950's peroxide fright-wig, by the way.  John Cusack, however, is the best thing in the movie:  he's snide, tough, and totally self-interested, befitting such a character.  And Pat Hingle is overwhelming as Lilly's terrifying mob boss, Bobo.  (That scene with the pillow-case full of oranges still lingers ten years later.)
*The Grifters*  has its moments, but its flaws simply run too deep to prompt a whole-hearted recommendation.