Later to be known as a man of dignity, honesty, and fragility, Mel Gibson is known to most ignorant men as a pansy. However, for the select few who can actually bare the man, we always come to our senses to watch this film whenever time is on our side. Once Mel was known for his survival instincts, keen street smarts, and his signature everyman-for-himself attitude. This movie proves that in all aspects...

Max Rockatansky is the protoganist on the verge of collapse. His wife and child were murdered by a group of bikers, only later to be almost fully exacted on by Max single handedly.. He now runs life on the highway with his faithful canine and the champion Pursuit Special Interceptor. Suffering from disillusionment, society seems all to desperate in his eyes...just as desperate as he is to stay alive in search of pertroleum. What you will find throughout the movie from here will only bring you driving plot sequences and entertaining scenes that will keep you watching the whole way through. All the action never gets old, many instance come up that will make you have that tad laugh you want to let out, and the ending chase will leave you wanting to explore scene selection the next time around.

The best way to sit through this is with an open mind, so be aware of things that you might not see in a normal action film. Now since this is science fiction, there will be many skeptics upon stupidity and pointless aspects to this film, but hopefully you will understand the true concept about this movie and everything that fills it.

Anyways, this is a exemplary masterpiece in every way possible for a film. This is Mel the way he wanted to be portrayed in the beginning...raw, tough, and in your face. He makes sure you understand what kind of hell he has been through, and this movie is a veteran example of such reality. I highly recommend adding this to the library which you have forged, as it only reigns as an essential piece in film history. If you already purchased it before, give it another round. Only classics are worthy of so...