I saw this movie without reading the book first and I loved it.  Isla Fisher is HILARIOUS as Rebecca Bloomwood and she is definitely  an actress to watch out for.  Isla plays the part of Rebecca, a shopaholic trying to avoid a debt collector, extremely well.  She makes Rebecca seem cute, innocent, funny, smart, and of course, fashionable.

Read with caution, as I may have basically the whole movie written down here:
The story of this movie is basically that when shopaholic Rebecca Bloomwood (how fun is it to say that?) is left without a job, she goes to work at a finance magazine called Successful Saving, hoping to use that to get to where she really wishes to be: Alette, a fashion magazine.  Rebecca advises people on how to use their money and as she uses her own shopping experiences to write her articles, Rebecca gains much popularity and becomes known as "The Girl in the Green Scarf".  Rebecca also falls in love with her boss, Luke Brandon.  There is a dancing scene relating to this in the movie that had me crying from laughing so hard, it was that funny.

All the action happens while Rebecca, with the help of her loyal friend Suze, tries desperately to avoid Derek Smeath, a debt collector intent on getting back the thousands that Rebecca owes.  It is hilarious to watch Rebecca as she makes up dozens of excuses, (I broke my leg, my aunt is in the hospital, my aunt fell out of a skydiving accident, I'm in Finland) attempting to avoid this man.

After watching the movie, I read the book and I understand why there are people unhappy with the movie.  The movie is very different from the book, but it is in no way less enjoyable.  The plots of both the movie and the book are still very good and the movie still attains the fun spirit of the book.
This movie is sweet, it is funny, and it will make you smile.  The music of this movie is the perfect soundtrack to Rebecca Bloomwood's story and the fun music adds to the enjoyment of the movie.  I recommend this movie for a for a friends night or if you just want to have some good, simple fun. You will not be disappointed!