Mean Creek is not the scariest, most tense or most action-packed movie you will ever see, but it is extremely watchable and if you pass on your chance to see it you'll be cheating yourself. It is not a fast-paced movie, and you'll likely find it somewhat predictable, but despite these shortcomings,  it is a very good movie. How? I blame the acting and the directing. This independent film was made without the gloss and polish of a big budget movie, and knowing that, the filmmakers utilized what they did have rather than what was lacking. This film consistently features some of the best non-verbal acting ever brought to the screen , by virtually all of the players. In the commentary they mention repeatedly all the originally scripted dialogue cut from various scenes, replaced by emotionally accurate looks and expressions from the great cast. As they expertly cover a very emotional range of expression and feeling, you never have to wonder what each character is feeling at any given time. This is what good acting  is all about, old-school talent from a young cast who doesn't need special effects or redundant lines---nobody says, "Gee, I feel sad today." You know just how they feel; simply look at their face.  Scott Mechiowicz (the Scotty in Scotty doesn't know from Eurotrip) delivers a flawlessly disturbing performance. Trevor Morgan, whom I have previously hailed as one of the greatest non-verbal young actors in the business (see my THE ONES TO WATCH guide here at Amazon) once again easily proves himself. Ryan Kelley, who I first saw as a guest on an episode of Smallville, is an awesome young actor with a brilliantly expressive non-verbal acting skill many of the Hollywood icons would do well to impersonate. I look forward with great anticipation to seeing his remarkable talent in future films. He has also now earned himself a place on my ONES TO WATCH guide. Rory Culkin proves himself here to be (for my money) the best, most talented Culkin yet to emerge in the industry. This kid doesn't need a line, just put him in an acting situation and watch his face. Carley Schroeder also delivers a beautiful, expressive performance. Her eyes are awesome. Look for her in future endeavors, as she is sure to be delighting us for years to come.  Finally, Josh Peck, who plays the bully, delivers a very good performance. His role is by necessity a more verbal role, but he makes it real---he is very hateable a lot of the time and quite likeable when the script calls for it. He makes us believe. They all do.  A quick kudos to the filmmakers here before I end this. Working with a small budget and a non-traditional lack of special effects and fanfare, you did exactly what a good filmmaker should do; you delivered a good film with a great cast, superb acting , believable situations and an overall feeling of realness. You brought out the best in your (extremely talented) young cast, you displayed your vision perfectly and you left the viewer with a sense of wanting more reminiscent of a good book. By the end we like these people, these kids, we're reluctant to leave them and we wish them well.  A film that stays with you after you've watched it is a worthy film.  Well done.