With Matt Damon having departed as the charismatic Jason Bourne after three movies, the producers had to come up with a clever way to keep this franchise moving forward. They could either simply take another actor continue the role of Jason Bourne (much in the same way that the James Bond franchise keeps it going), or they could come up with a new story line separate (but not apart) from Jason Bourne. The producers decided on the latter.

"The Bourne Legacy" (135 min.) introduces us to Aaron Cross (played by Jeremy Renner), who is another Jason Bourne-like former Army soldier rescued and enhanced by an experimental CIA program. For reasons not entirely made clear (to me anyway), the decision is made to shut down this program and all of the field agents are cast off, with the sole exception of Aaron Cross, who manages to dodge the various attempts on his life. Meanwhile we are also introduced to Dr. Marta Shearing (played by Rachel Weisz), who is involved in the running of the program, and for reasons I don't want to explain so as not to spoil too much of the plot, now also is running for her life. Aaron and Marta team up, and how exactly it all plays out, you will just have to see it for yourself.

Several comments: there are a number of hair-raising action scenes, none more so than in the last 45 min. of the movie, at which point all of the action takes places in Manila, the Phillipines. The action scenes are staged brilliantly and are never so over the top that they become laughable. Jason Renner does a great job in bringing us "the next Jason Bourne". But Rachel Weisz is the REAL star in my opinion. This is the 3rd time in short order that I've seen her recently in the theatres (after Dream House and The Deep Blue Sea), and she completely transfixes me, as she does again in this movie. Kudos also to writer-director (and "Bourne" veteran) Tony Gilroy, for bringing it all together in a credible and thoroughly enjoyable way. In the end, "The Bourne Legacy" exceeded all my expectations, and as such is an outstanding addition to the "Bourne" franchise. Can't wait for the next installment already!