Yes, just about everybody who talks about the movie centers on Ben Kingsley's performance, and deservedly so.  But I rate the film very highly independent of Kingsley, and something different that I liked about his performance.  
First, the entire story.  A retired gangster is trying to enjoy the good life.  The movie shows him as fat and lackadasical, but he wants it that way.  He feels he's earned his retirement, and this is exactly what he wants to do.  Nobody's going to pull him out of retirement for "one last job", which is why the big boys in London send the Kingsley character to do it.  
Kingsley's character is not even going to let you condsider thinking about refusing him.  He comes on as an extreme hard-ass from the first moment he's on screen, and never lets go.  If he says he's going to kill you for an insignificant offense, you don't doubt him for a minute.  
But what makes Kingsley's performance so special is that you realize how insecure the character is, and Kingsley lets this show.  A real pro could have instilled just as much fear in his prey in a much more subtle manner.  He's probably not got a long career as a criminal because he attracts too much attention to himself in public, a no-no in the mob.  As he's essentially a stupid, insecure, and even frightened character, his tactic is to blitzkrieg your senses before you have a chance to react.  He's not a great criminal, but a memorable one, and that's what I really like about it.  
The surrounding story tries to get a bit artsy, and works more than it doesn't.  The Ray Winstone character, even though he's retire, is plagued by his own demons.  You even get to see the demon, portrayed as kind of a werewolf, and it sticks with him throughout the movie.  The job he is called upon to do is shot very stylishly, but I would think the location they are trying to hit would have security devices that would have detected what they were trying to do.  And Ian McShane's performance as the boss who sends Kingsley to fetch Winstone is a perfect portrayal of cold, calculated evil.  It's how the Kingsley character SHOULD act, but not nearly as much fun to watch.  
See it.