I have read all 62 reviews of this classic movie. I have seen that most of the reviewers whom did not care for this 1990 version; Are from Canada. Now I have nothing against our neighbors up north. But "if" we are going to be honest about things. Then lets start with "This Movie". First of all; I purchased the "English version; "First". Before I had purchased the U.S. version. I had not read the "book"; Which is so aptly protraded here. "I" wanted to form my "own" opinions. Much is made about the fact that this movie "Did not follow the book".
 I do not know about this. You may be right. "If" you have ever read "The Wizard of Oz" for instance; "The movie was'nt anything like the book either!!
  This movie was made with the full scope of showing just how savage people can become when they are left unattended. This includes "Children". Have you never seen a "School Yard Bully?"
 This movie is attempting to portray the "Struggel"; Between "Good and Evil". Not how "English we all can be". Not intended as a slam against England either. I mean I've always loved "The Beatles", as well as Princess Diana. So I am not speaking from any pre-concieved predjudices. "Boy's will be Boys" and foul language was an attempt by these boys to be what "They" precevied as "Manly". Remember; All of us at one time or the other, have pushed the envelope of our parents trust.
  These boys in this movie; Were portraying "Real Life". Not living in some fantasy castle. They were trying to survive in a hostile environment. They were not waiting for "Tea Time". They struggel alone on an Island with no adult supervision. "There fore. "They were lost, scared, and with out hope of being rescued.
  Someone; Had to set the stage for what would really happen in this instance. That someone was "Jack". "He" was more afraid than all the other boys combined. This is why he rebells. "Ralph" the eternal optimist; Does not want to admit to himself or the other boys. That "He too" is afraid. "Piggy"; Was played excellently by the young man who did this part. "Piggy" represented to "Jack" all that Jack was afraid of. Things like "Caring, Sharing,thoughtfulness". And the loss of power. This movie is all about "Power". The struggel to start a fire. The struggel to maintain that fire. The struggel to steal Piggys eyeglasses so that "Only Jack" could control the fire. The struggel to dominate all the other boys on the Island. Jacks rebellion against "Good"; As prtrayed by "Ralph". If you want to poke fun at the movie because the boys came to shore in a raft. For instance. Then watch the 1960's English version. "Where did the Choir garb come from?...I suppose that "Harrods"; Had opened on the other side of the Island right?. Putting the actors into Military Uniforms in the begininning of this movie. Was suppose to represent "Order". This was not the case as we saw in the movie. Little by little; The uniforms are shed along with any sense of order. This fact I found to be curious. As from that point forward. This movie almost becomes a 90 minute advertisement for "Fruit of the Loom"; Boys Underwear. Aside from that fact. Clothing would deteriorate. In a tropical climate. So this part makes perfect sense. Unlike the English version where Choir uniforms are the norm.
 Lets try to be objective here. This movie was NOT made to follow the "book" no matter who wrote it. Or no matter what country they come from. This Movie is a classic example of "Good against Evil".
  This is no doubt what the director saw in this movie. This is how he choose to portary this movie. Is this film not an example of that struggel?
  "Who"; Finally wins that struggel?......"Jack?"..."No". No one wins Jack loses; Ralph; loses. Piggy loses. Simone loses.
 When reviewing this film. "Keep this fact in mind". Boys 10 and 11 and 12 "Do" swear!! All boys do.  This is all just part of being a male, in a male dominated world such as this Island had become for them.
  These actors were portraying "Real Life"; Not trying to be English, American, or Momma's boys. This is "Real Life". These boys portrayed "Real Life". The acting in this film is excellent and well worth the price. This film did not have to slam anyones Religon like "The Boy's of St. Vincent". Another "sad" but true story. A shame for Canada what took place in that movie. As it would have been a shame in "any" country.
 Lets try to be objective here. And not allow our own predjudices. Outweight the objectivity of this film. I rate this movie FIVE Stars!!
 It's a shame that Hollywood did not take advantage of the fine young talent that worked in this film.