I majored in history in College, and even studied Medieval history at Cambridge one summer...but Starz's Camelot is just plain awful.  I went into the season open minded, meaning that I was ready for another version of the king Arthur legend since I liked Excalibur and several other versions; however, please note that even I couldn't ever like First Knight.  I don't want to give away too many details if you want to watch the series, but be forewarned it sucks due to miscast, poor script,small budget (needed more extras as warrior knights and common folk) and political correctness (modern feminism, multi-cultural/post-racial, etc.).  It also smacks of hollywood trying to ride the ambiguity fence...that the characters are neither good nor evil, lies somewhere near the gray area of fallibility etc soap opera.  Where are the knights trained in combat arms of the day (heavy cavalry)?  They must have spent the whole budget on a few talent and camelot castle CGI because Camelot lacked in depth in many ways.

The opening scene of young Arthur caught after sleeping with his brother's girlfriend...was just wrong.  I don't believe that would have occurred back then, but note that it was more revealing of Arthur's character later in the series.  Merlin (Joseph Fiennes) was absolutely believable and Fiennes gave an amazing portrayal of a cunning yet "might-be-mad" sorcerer.  King Uther's sorceress daughter Morgan (Eva Green) was brilliantly played and deserves recognition.  Arthur's knights seemed like real men yet too "clean" and not like the battle-tested rustic knights like Templar Knight James Purfoy from the movie "Ironclad".  (and a black-african knight? in England?  New one for me.)  With Jamie Campbell Bower as King Arthur???  One of the biggest miscasts ever.  Between his bad acting and his wimpy looks (trained to carry a sword? morelike a bow perhaps), he does not fit the king arther role.  So, he's a ladies man, I get it...better role as a bard than a man fit to rule England.

I liked the creativeness of how the sword in the stone and lady of the lake became legend, but anything recognizeable stops there (the potential arthur/morgana season finale hookup that produced an offspring that never occurred).  Camelot quickly turned into a soap opera with the bitter evil nun advisor, mixed asian/black-african maid (they never developed her charater), and Egraine plot that just turned south.  Poor character development of Arthur's knights and other characters.

Camelot the musical was more believeable than this nonsense.  Buy that version and save your money on this one.  Like my review or not, it just wasn't worth my breath.