i admittedly made the mistake of seeing the remake BEFORE i saw the original, and it ruined it completely for me.  it started out promising, but then very quickly as i began to notice all the differences in the two i began to get very annoyed that the story/scares/characters were all not adding up to make nearly as much sense as in the american version.  there were good ideas there but ultimately the american version took the good ideas and spun them into a great movie.  so many little elements that helped to make the story make much more sense.  like, why do these adults believe that the tape will kill them?  what adult believes so easily in urban legends like that?  what makes the story great is in the remake, naomi watts trying to figure out about the tape and its origins while her kid gets weirder and weirder and it begins to get to her and make her paranoid that it might just be true.  its that struggle that helps to define her character.  i didnt really get much sense of what any of the "characters" were actually like in RINGU.  and i wouldve been completely lost as to what the actual deal was with the girl from the tape had i not seen the remake first as they rushed through those bits of the plot.  the guy convienently figured everything out very quickly without much need to second guess.  "hey, her bodies under the cabin, lets just go get her cause thats the only way we can be saved"  how do we know this?  I HAVE NO IDEA and neither will anyone in the audience watching this half baked movie.  you can only assume these characters know what theyre doing but it seems more like theyre taking the steps through a screenplay thats not very well constructed instead of acting out of free will.  everything was too easily handed to them without much sense of mystery at all.  there werent nearly even as many scares in this one.  this really makes me disappointed, because i been very curious to see this since i saw THE RING in the theatres but ultimately the curiosity having seen it was not worth the 3 bucks to rent it.  save your money.