I've been putting off watching this version of NOTLD for quite some time...every review I'd read about it warned me away from wasting my time and money on the 30th Anniversary edition, but finally curiosity got the best of me, and I rented it tonight.  While it's not as terrible as most reviewers would have one believe, it definitely could have been done better.  The idea itself had a lot of potential, but this potential is never realized.  I can see four main problems with this version.

First of all, the new scenes stick out like a sore thumb...as well-filmed as most of them are, and as much as some of the new scenes truly do serve the story (the scene of the family killed in the car crash coming back to life is as disturbing as any zombie scene from the original), they look far too "clean" to be grafted into the original 1968 version.  Surely there's some way to "age" this footage to make it look just as grainy as the original footage...even the near-pristine Millennium Edition released by Elite isn't quite as clean as the new scenes.  There should have been some attempt to keep some consistency between the orignal footage and the added scenes, even if it was at the expense of the picture quality of the new footage.

Second, there's the music.  Scott Vladimir Licina has composed a new score for the film that would sound right at home on a Midnight Syndicate album...but as much as I like that style of music, it has no place in a film that is as established a horror classic as NOTLD.  Here and there, the score of the original version, which was not composed specifically for the film but expertly pieced together from the Capitol Records Hi-Q Library, peeks through for a few minutes, but then is overtaken by Licina's modern synth-heavy score.  Just as with the new film footage, there is a big problem with consistency here.  The film should have either been completely re-scored with Licina's modern music, leaving out all of the original soundtrack (not an option I'm fond of, but an option nonetheless), or the original score should have been kept intact, possibly supplemented by compatible musical themes from the Capitol Records library or whatever its equivalent would be today.

Third, there's the issue of Bill Hinzman's character...as awesome as his original graveyard zombie was, there was no need to "resurrect" him for the new footage.  One could honestly mistake the zombie in the new footage as having been played by a different actor...the new scenes show him with a far pastier, paler complexion than his 1968 performance, and his hair isn't even consistent (but then, if you look closely in the original version, his hair is average-length in the cemetery scenes and is then in a crew-cut in the attack at the end of the film, so maybe this aspect is excusable, albeit in a tongue-in-cheek fashion).  This could have been worked around by simply not showing his face in the new footage...done properly, the audience would still be able to make the connection.

Finally, the ending was completely uncalled for...the radiation explanation suggested (but never completely established) by the original was more than adequate. The "One Year Later" nonsense forces us to sit through more apocalyptic ramblings by Licina's annoying priest character, who had already worn out his welcome by the time Hinzman's zombie puts the bite on him.  It also is a bit confusing, since at the very end we jump back in time to the bonfire and the gritty stills showing Ben's final moments.

In the bonus features, I saw John Russo, Russ Streiner, Bill Hinzman, and even Karl "Harry Cooper" Hardman participating in the filming of the new footage, but the one person from the original NOTLD crew who could have possibly pulled this off was nowhere to be found.  George Romero had nothing to do with this production...he likely knew better than to try improving on his original masterpiece.  In any case, while I may come back to view this version now and then just for something different, it in no way supplants the original version, no more than Dean Lachiusa's downright disrespectful "Survivor's Cut" does (but we'll save that for another review).  It's an intriguing aside, but the real collector's item is and always will be Elite's Millennium Edition.