Emily Bronte's poetically bleak novel WUTHERING HEIGHTS is intensely involved, encompassing a span of almost thirty-five years, and taking in the likes of three generations.  Certainly it must take at least a good five hours to do this story notable justice on the screen.  I therefore kept any anticipation of a truly cohesive telling of this tale well in check as I approached it; most assuredly expecting shortcomings and, if I must say so myself, quite successfully sought and found whatever might be the finer qualities of such a story portrayed on film.  For though a number of movie adaptations had previously been made, it was not until this divine 1992 film that the whole poignant tale got told from the very beginning to the very end.
Juliette Binoche and Ralph Fiennes are the ill-starred couple Cathy and Heathcliff.  Heathcliff is an orphan found in Liverpool and brought home as a young child by Cathy's father, Mr. Earnshaw, a Yorkshire farmer, to be raised within the family.  Cathy and Heathcliff develop a strong bond between them as they grow up.  After Mr. Earnshaw dies, and his estate is left in the hands of his heir, Cathy's older brother Hindley, Heathcliff is cast down from the place of a beloved adopted son to that of a servant and farmhand.  Then the ideal friendship that Cathy and Heathcliff had shared as children becomes further corrupted when Edgar Linton and his sister Isabella, son and daughter of a magistrate residing in a neighboring estate, enter the picture.  What follows is a battle of wills, marked by moments of feverish passion, jealousy, a marriage proposal, a disappearance, and a quest for revenge.  Fiennes and Binoche have their moments, and they lead a fairly well known cast - Janet McTeer as the maid Nelly, Simon Shepard as Edgar, Sophie Ward as Isabella, and Jeremy Northam as Hindley.
Originally, in the novel, it is the Earnshaw's servant girl, Nelly, who narrates this story.  This movie, however, takes on a somewhat venturous liberty by casting Sinead O'Connor to tell the tale, in the personage of author Emily Bronte.  Wuthering Heights is a castle of sorts, a bit more grand than imagined in the novel.  Notwithstanding though, the artistic landscape imagery in this movie is exquisite.
The role of Cathy is a difficult one, to be sure - and I've yet to see an actress wholly capture her tempestuous nature.  Truly Binoche is a very fine actress, as well as a rare beauty.  Her looks and mannerisms, however, are somewhat too exotically European - and her accent is markedly French.  She presents a rather mature, less impulsive Cathy, which does not at all strike one as a wild Yorkshire farm girl. In the whole of this film, there were only two scenes in which the intensity of her performance even came close to the power of the novel - that when she's telling Nelly about Edgar Linton's marriage proposal, and the scene where, in a fever after Heathcliff has run off with Isabella, she sends her soliloquy through an open window into the blustering night air.  Both these scenes take from the book some of Bronte's most beautiful language.
Ralph Fiennes is also a very fine actor - and he's especially adept at playing brooding characters with a lot of pent up passion brewing under the surface.  He approaches Heathcliff in this same manner.  But Heathcliff in his younger years is something of a raging wild animal, too emotionally immature to keep his fury under wraps.  Indeed, I must say Fiennes' Heathcliff misses the mark by no small distance, especially in those scenes which take place before Cathy's death.  Like Binoche, he is simply too mature - his Heathcliff is just not believable as a farm hand who's only around the age of 20.  It is actually in the scenes that take place after Cathy's death that Fiennes' performance really kicks in:  despairing madman, obsessive necromancer - he plays it up to the fullest extreme of ruthless wickedness.  In administering revenge upon those he hates he's downright scary.
I was rather disappointed that two major characters from the novel, Nelly and Hindley, were herein given so little attention.  A key scene from the book - in which Hindley, recruiting a rifle and some assistance from Isabella, tries to eliminate Heathcliff - was completely omitted in this movie.  Both Northam and McTeer put forth flawless performances for what little screen time they're given - but I believe that certain plot holes and transitional errors occurred due to the fact that these two were not fully drawn out.  The third generation - Hindley's son Hareton (Jason Riddington) is ruggedly good looking; Jonathan Firth (brother of Colin Firth) plays Heathcliff's decrepit son Linton with relish; however, the fact that Binoche took on dual roles - as both Cathy and, with a blond wig, her daughter Catherine Linton - rather made me cringe.  The scene in which Heathcliff exacts his revenge upon Catherine, who looks essentially the same as the supposed great love of his life, just didn't sit well with me at all.  
For a more accurate portrayal of Cathy and Heathcliff in the early years before their children are born, look to a 1971 version of WUTHERING HEIGHTS starring Timothy Dalton and Anna Calder-Marshall.  As for this version, I really must say that even with its various shortcomings, it's overall a very lovely, entertaining movie.