If you or your family are looking to settle into viewing a particular adaptation of "A Christmas Carol" but are not quite in the mood for the somewhat darker tellings starring Alastair Sim or  George C. Scott, and instead desire a compartively more light hearted version, then your best bet is this b&w version from 1938. Unlike the British version starring Seymour Hicks from a few years back in 1935, this version does not necessarily bring up too many comparisons between the rich and poor. Perhaps, as America was still in the throes of the Great Depression, audiences didn't want to be reminded about how bad things already were. Instead, the London the viewer is presented with is sparkling city lights, and kids dashing through the streets, sliding and throwing snowballs at one another. Markets and shoppers are happy. Sure, there are those that are poor, and could be doing better, but they are by no means malnourished or starving. This is best emphasized by the Cratchit family (which I'll go into shortly). Everyone is festive. Until all the gaiety is interrupted by the tall, gaunt shadow of Ebenezer Scrooge (Reginald Owen), when he walks in to the office on his nephew and clerk, Bob Cratchit (Gene Lockhart), getting ready to share a Christmas toast.

  Reginald Owen's Scrooge is in the classic mold. Old, and mean, and to whom only money matters, as that's all he knows. But, as this version is on the lighter side, this Scrooge does have a heart and its strings are pulled without too much effort by the Spirits. In fact, Scrooge seems almost reformed by the time the Spirit of Christmas Yet to Come makes its ominous entrance.

  The Cratchit family do not necessarily live in the neediest of circumstances. In fact, their home is pretty modest and comfortable looking. Bob looks particularly well-fed. It seems the filmmakers were trying to cast aside strong references to the Depression. People had seen enough of the real thing with their own eyes, and movies were meant for escape. So the images of poverty and starving so much a part of Dickens' original tale are softened and cleaned up in this more cheerful version. No scene of the Ghost of Christmas Present revealing to Scrooge any disturbing representations of Ignorance and Want as children. In fact, the Spirit reveals to him all the enchantment of Christmas Cheer he's missing out on.

  Reginald Owen makes for a fine and miserly Scrooge. What's interesting to note is that Lionel Barrymore was set to play the role, as he had been doing so as a tradition every year at Christmas time on the radio. But, due to health reasons he had to pull out and suggested the fifty year old Owen, a British thespian to replace him. Also, I think Barry Mackay as Fred, Scrooge's nephew, gave the most bright and charming interpretation of the charcter I've seen in any version of the story and it remains my favorite. All the players in the film give charming and warm performances, especially Terry Kilburn as Tiny Tim.

  To sum it up, while this version is softer in how it deals with some of the darker elements of the story such as in the images of poverty the novel raises, it succeeds in being warm and cheerful at heart. That makes this a version perfect for family viewing.