"The Ice Storm" centers around two neighboring families, the Hoods and Carvers during a winter in the 70's. Kevin Kline of the Hood family plays Ben, a self centered husband who is having an affair with his neighbor
Janey played by Sigourney Weaver. They indulge in their loveless affair as Ben's wife Elena played by Joan Allen finds herself yearning for her inner youth and trying to escape her boring life. At the same time both families teenage off springs are experimenting with sex and drugs. Wendy(Christina Ricci), the daughter of Ben and Elena fools around with Mikey played by Elijah Wood. Tobey Maguire plays Paul who wants the beautiful Katie Holmes even if drugs are involved. This all happens as an ice storm approaches and climaxes at a "key swapping" party during the height of the storm and a tragedy.
 The Ice Storm is set when the sexual revolution was in full swing and many changes were coming upon America. This film clearly shows how little communication and connection there is between the family members and overall all the people. For example, when Ellijah Wood's father comes back from a business trip to greet his son, Ellijah replies that he didn't even notice he was gone. Janey barely even moves her eyes from her magazine to greet her husband. Throughout the film we barely ever see anyone in a conversation they are deeply involved in. The sense of isolation and sadness runs rampant throughout. Each of the characters is so immersed in their own vices and affairs that they live in their own world, and pay little attention to the others. Mikey and Wendy either fool around or awe at the TV, but they never have much to say to each other. This is the sad state people are entering, one where they feel alienated and unable to express themselves. This applies to the parents just as much. After some sex, Janey doesn't permit Ben to talk about his golf because she feels she already has her husband for that. There is no real affection between the characters. When Elena tries to have an affair with Janey's husband to retaliate for her husband's affair, it is devoid of passion and rather clumsy.
 The film features excellent cinematography of the cold atmosphere and the beauty of the ice storm. Each of the actors plays their parts righteously cold. None of them are very likeable but this shows just how disconnected each of them are. Ben is so full of hypocrisy and shallowness, that when he finds his daughter having dry sex with Mikey he lectures and preaches to even though he was there to commit an affair. However it is the final moments of the film where he releases his tears due to the tragedy that just happened and that he has just realized how truly pathetic his existence is. One of the best characters in the play is that of Christina Ricci's. She becomes sexual with other boys because it gives here a sense of power and control. From her mere facial expression we sense she is lonely and hardened. Tobey Maguire plays his character with creepy aura. The final 15 minutes of the film have little dialogue , but are emotionally filled as a terrible tragedy strikes.
 The Ice Storm is such an important film because even though it is set in the 70's it is still relevant today. While many families appear to have stability and happiness, underneath they are not. The people in society are becoming disconnected and isolated through a loss of communication and boredom of their lives. They indulge in sins and pleasures just to break from their apathetic lives while damaging their self worth and morals. Ice Storm shows the deterioration of the traditional American family and relationships between people effectively with subtlety rather than making it over the top and sensationalist. A great film of how family has changed and the effects of loneliness and lack of expression.