I love this movie.  For the most part it follows Sir Walter Scott's classic novel "Ivanhoe".  Of course the book is always better.  But this movie has so much more than the other movies.  The costumes are awesome.  And best yet, the actors look like the people you would have met at that time period... not hollywood movie stars or models.  Some people may say that the actors did not act well, but it its better to see a movie were the actors are actually in the role of the characters at that time.

The stories and characters were awesome.  Very touching, very realistic.  You see the treachery, feel the kindness, the good, the bad, and also see how evil and twisted power and religion can be. All the hypocracy of religion and how it's twisted to suit those in power is in the movie.  The inquisition demonstrated how the Roman Catholic (Christians) think and how they persecuted others and used their power to twist words and create fear.  All the human elements are there in this movie, all the human sins, the weaknesses and the goodnesses too.

Appearances by Robin of Locksley (Robin Hood) and his merry men followed the story and legend of that time.  The jousting is not as spectacular as other movies... but if you want to see jousting... watch a Knight's tale (LOL).  The jousting in this Ivanhoe movie is more realistic than the other Ivanhoe movies.  The melee on the second day of the tournement was something that the other movies didnt have.  Well done, and the appearance of the disguised Black Knight.

Storming castle Torquelstone could have been done much better. With more action and more archery, and seige warfare.  But if you want that... Watch Lord of the Rings!  Don't compare movies.

The Champion fight at the end was awesome and very believable.

This version of Ivanhoe, for the most part, tried to stay with the classic novel.  Kudos and well done on that.  The picture quality could have been enhanced when they converted the VHS to DVD.  Parts of the DVD is not made for the High Definition TVs we have today.