me and my friends had to comment on this after seeing the film, steven dunning was invited to speak at our university and he is truly doing good for many, he is standing up for those who are beaten down by giving them courage to stand up when they see what the girl in this film does, we are glad someone is showing what happens to many people, i found the sf weekly article and had to quote them:
Situations like this have been documented for years. The worker's isolation (i.e. not being allowed out of to make any outside contacts or friends) is so extreme and the culture of fear created by their employers is so great that the worker's believe they will suffer serious harm if they leave their jobs, and have no choice but to remain in and continue laboring in abusive conditions." - Human Rights Watch researcher Carol Pier wrote in her report "Hidden in the Home: Abuse of Domestic Workers with Special Visas in the United States. Like many, Alice was told not to speak to anyone because anyone could be an FBI agent ready to deport her. Also she was falsely told she could not venture far from the apartment because her visa did not allow her to go anywhere without her boss. And even forced to wash all laundry and dishes by hand even though there was a washer/dryer and electric dishwasher because her boss said she was paying HER to do the work.
Alice had come to the U.S. to make money to send back to her family, though her employer prevented her from doing so for months by telling Alice that she could not transfer the money by herself, but then refused to help her do it.  Without her sending money, Alice knew her family would starve.  She was told she first had to pay off her plane ticket here from Kenya.  Many Southeast Asian trafficking victims are forced into prostitution to pay off a $10,000 or higher U.S. dollar boat passage. Police raids on these houses that resemble prisons in the Chinese communities of the Los Angeles area are documented by the Los Angeles Times in recent years.
Whoever happens to enter the path of a victim seeking help is often their only hope, whether it be a neighbor or pastor as in Alice's case, or a stranger.  Alice went to Father Bob Moran at a local church and waited until everyone was gone before she approached him. "She seemed kind of fearful, desperate. She said they took her passport away and she couldn't really go anywhere. It didn't seem right; she didn't seem to have much freedom." Alice says `I was thinking America is the home of the free. I didn't understand why there is freedom and I am not free. I am like a prisoner in the land of free people." Alice was left alone for a month and given only 8 dollars for food. She says "It's hard, but I don't know. I don't know anything about this country."  She finally escaped to a women's shelter where she has been for more than a year while struggling with the courts and her immigration status but has yet to tell her parents back home of all her troubles here. "It took enormous courage for her to come forward and assert her rights against a powerful and influential person," says Kathleen Kim of the Lawyer's Committee for Civil Rights.  Alice states one reason for coming forward and exposing what many people think doesn't happen anymore in this country "It's really hard, but if there is a hard thing like going without food, or living without my mother, I always think it is better if it doesn't happen to other people."
i think alice is the real lee like in the film