----Some major spoilers below---
What I find striking about this film is how it presents such a cynical view of romantic love.

James Stewart (as Scotty) starts out playing one of his every-man/average-guy hero characters, who falls into depression and then into a troubling obsession because of his misplaced romantic love.

Most films seem to glorify romance & love.
Hitchcock seems to have wanted to point out that though this emotion can be at the center of our lives it is often based upon superficialities.

Many films present love as something that is DESTINE to happen between two people.
 I think that Hitchcock was having fun with this idea, flipping it on its head and twisting it with all sorts of irony.
e.g.  (SPOILERS) The person who Scotty fell so deeply in love with did not really exist, she was simply an 'act' (i.e. It's Judy pretending to be Madeleine, who were two very different types of women).
 Scotty does not appears to be capable of loving Judy for who she really is.
Scotty becomes morbidly obsessed with Judy's fake version of Madeleine, and later he pressures Judy into looking & acting like her (once again) which she does out of love for him.
  Contrast this with Scotty's best friend (Midge),  a fairly attractive woman who adores him.  She seems like a woman much more suited to Scotty's taste than Judy is.  But he is just too romantically fixated on Judy's 'faux' Madeleine for Midge to have a real shot at him.

 This movie is great for a lot of reasons, many of which have already been mentioned here in other reviews, including:
Novak skillfully playing two very different personalities.
The view it gives us of San Francisco circa the 1950's.
The movie's plot goes through very interesting thematic changes (Starting as a supernatural love story/drama then changing mid-stream into a psychological drama heavily laden with irony.).
It has a wonderful musical score.
And there is a VERY dark ending to the story (Something almost unheard of in American movies prior to the mid-1960's)

There are some glitches to this film's storyline,
None of which I feel are too distracting with the possible exception of the somewhat convoluted wife-murder-scheme, which might seem too far-fetched for some people to accept.
(Perhaps this somewhat bizarre murder scheme was necessary to set up the two-in-one character role played by Kim Novak.)
If I remember correctly Hitchcock said that he felt that such background details were not that important when trying to get an audience immersed into a story.
Hey the story works for me! :)
This is one of my favorite movies.