Well, I just watched the documentary part of Shawn's new DVD and it is really good stuff. Nowhere near as much obscure WWF footage as I'd have liked, but still some good action and AWA footage. Plenty of attention to Shawn's great return from injury, but it was hard listening to Shawn talking about going through depression since he thought about suicide and also, that he wasn't competent to be able to take care of his family since he couldn't wrestle anymore which caused him to do drugs and booze.

And unfortunately, they focused A LOT on the screwjob and Triple H had a lot of needless crap to say, even Ted Dibiase seemed to harp on Bret being 'bitter' still and how Shawn wants to patch things up (although I'm sure WWE just asked Ted to say that for them just to make Shawn look good). They showed clips of Bret smashing stuff up whilst talking about how much grudge he has, fair or what. Hunter also said how Bret was going to walk out the next night, when not under contract, which is bullsh** because he still had another 30 days left on his contract and would have dropped it anytime if Vince had let him. Hunter is just being a complete revisionist nitwit and Shawn tells a different story with each interview he does regarding Montreal. (In the Heartbreak and Triumph book, Shawn says he was the mastermind behind the whole thing, on the DVD he says it was Vince's idea and he was doing what he was told.) Personally, I think the DVD would've been much better without spending so much time on it. It's so disappointing that WWE had taken great strides in patching things up with Bret over the years only for this crap to be released and shown and take it right back to square one. *Sigh*

So, aside from the Montreal crap (it never gets old and WWE will never let it die), HBK's DVD is amazing and easily the best Superstar DVD since Flair and Hart. There's a few more matches I would've preferred to have on there like Vs. Bret Hart from Survivor Series 92, Vs. Chris Jericho at WM XIX, or Vs. Shelton Benjamin on RAW in mid-2005, but I'm really grateful WWE went all-out on releasing rare / classic matches instead of just rehashing stuff on From The Vault.

This DVD set is absolutely worth getting for any HBK fan. Hell, even any wrestling fan out there.