Universal did a great job by listening to us fans and finally releasing this classic 80's sitcom.  Gimme a Break focuses on Nell Harper, played by Nell Carter.  She is the housekeeper to the Kaninsky family who recently lost their matriarch.  Nell's official title is housekeeper, but she is much more than that.  She acts almost as a surrogate mom to the three Kaninsky daughters, and always looks out for their dad Karl.  The plots focus on many issues, mainly comical, but sometimes serious.  One such serious issue is the family's grief in losing their mom/wife.  Another episode deals with police officer Karl's killing of an armed robber in the line of duty.

The set contains all 19 first season episodes.  These are all the original network episodes, not syndicated cuts.  No music has been replaced or omitted.  Nell does sing some commercial songs in some episodes and some song themselves do play.  I guess Universal got the hint to not edit music on this set.  The video looks great for a show over 20 years old.  There are one or two spots with lines or slight jumping, but nothing major.  The audio is 2.0 mono.  The only bonus features are previews of other Universal titles, an 80's TV featurette (which features Lara Jill Miller who plays Sam on the show), and bonus episodes of Charles in Charge, Kate & Allie and a season 2 Gimme a Break episode.  It would have been nice to see interviews and commentaries on the episodes, but hopefully next set.

If you watched this show when it first ran, or watched it in syndication, you will want this set.  Even if you've never seen it, you will enjoy this set.  I haven't seen this show in years but it used to be one of my favorites.  When I started watching it I was expecting to be nostalgic but didn't expect to laugh that much.  I was in for a big surprise.  This show has more than held up.  I was hysterical laughing through much of it.  Once I finished an episode I just had to keep watching the enxt one.  If you haven't gotten this set yet, get it soon so you can sing along...Gimme a Break, I sure deserve it!  It's time I made it to the top!