10 years of watching amanda tapping acting like a repressed, overly serious supposed pseudo intellectual, devoid of sensuality, a sexless automaton more like it. I mentioned in my other review which I cannot now find on here, that "Central casting" could have filled that role with any good actress who would have done just as good a job. Its that people CAN'T IMAGINE anyone else once a "star" becomes permanently situated in their cranium. Once that actor has become "their favorite" their broader sense of thinking outside the box closes.

I bet there were many other more fascinating and beguiling actresses that could have filled the role, but we'll never know it, because people act like the person who fills the role was a message from god or something.

I truly feel that the actress must be close to the personality of the character, why wouldn't she protest to have her range stretched out in all directions? That is great for an actress in the first place! I feel disappointed. Was this because the show was never on tv, but remained hidden from so many on THE SCI FI NETWORK? Puhleese. I also really feel that her character's opportunity to grow in an opposite direction from her overly serious attitude was squelched BECAUSE of her age. As the show continued she began to age and it clearly shows. I guess she's not one that can hide her aging well. (Ben Browder's 45 for example, and he looks ten years younger!!!) Why would they take someone that looks that old, and give her sexy roles? To me thats exactly WHY I would have given her sexy roles to pursue, a more childlike and sweet side to manifest... because she is older and has all the wisdom of her experiences. Many people actually get younger when they get older, and this is not a secret to many people. I think that the people who wrote the scripts, the writers, have their ear firmly up against the voice of society. Life's supposed to be "over" at forty right?? Thats crazy. This was an excellent opportunity to break those stereotypes!! I have read some people were "offended" by claudia blacks wanton sexuality. First of all if these are religionists what are they doing watching that show anyway?? Its against their religion to believe there are extraterrestrials out there, and noone should be listening to them. I suppose they enjoy new ideas aside from what they've been force fed, but they are as repressed as Tapping's character and thats no fun!

Even tho I like the show very much.. Tappings character gave the show a 10 year case of BLUE BALLS.

Sorry but its true.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Oh I had another comment.. when I saw that their next villain was "the Ori" .. I thought that is by far the dumbest idea yet. I just felt like I had seen it somewhere before. I also hate having to meet religious people in my day to day life, I hate to see it played out on a tv show because it reminds me of what I like to avoid. It reminded me of nutty evangelists, or perhaps the Christians in their heydays of killing or abusing anyone who didn't believe as they did. (ie witchs/feeding to lions etc etc) Im sorry to see it go though, because otherwise it had a very long run and it would have been fun to see it continue.. I did feel the "Ori" was a boring enemy (the Earth has been there, done that) to create.