So many movies have been made about the land war in WWII. What about the US Navy? The only ones of any merit were made during the war or in its aftermath and most were unbalanced, showing the Japanese as the  "yellow peril," etc. I was raised on these movies and some of our  best directors cranked them out (John Ford and many others) and few stand  up well the test of time. Quite by accident I caught up to this fine film  on TV and then on this fine double video. The performances by the actors  are excellent. John Wayne shows facets of his character that I never saw  before, a vulnerabilty rarely seen other than the classic western "The  Searchers," probably his best career performance. Kirk Douglas  delivers a great performance of a naval officer with an underlining  violence of character, which proves fatal to him. A fine supporting cast  headed up by Patricia O'Neil, Burgess Meredith, Tom Tryon and others fills  out the story, spread on a broad canvas by Otto Preminger. I was flat out  surprised by this excellent work, full of details, character developement,  and action. This really is'nt an action picture, with high heroics and flag  waving. By subduing these elements, a temptation for any director to boost  box office, Preminger achieves effects not seen in most big-budget  productions. The story is somewhat slow but rarely boring. The B&amp;W  photography posed no problem for me,for most of the war movies I saw as a  child were filmed in B&amp;W and it somewhat adds to the documentary look  of the movie. Almost all war movies use "stock" footage of ships  and battles and this movie is no different. The use of models in the  climactic battle is not very convincing; I read that Kirk Douglas said that  he liked the movie but seeing all those models with no crewmen standing on  deck bothered him, detracked from the power of the film. Jerry Goldsmith's  score is rousing without being bombastic, similar to his great  "Patton" score, another movie with some action but has great  emphasis on character. I would recommend this to all of John Wayne's fans.  Watch carefully; the Duke is showing some real acting talent here,  restrained for an officer named "Rockwell." With so many epics  going for the blood and guts approach, "In Harm's Way" comes  sailing past with a more balanced picture, that the war was harsh, fought  by men, lower to upper ranks, but just men of flesh and blood, caught up in  the defining event of the twentieth century.