Nero Wolfe -- the agrophobic, orchid-growing gourmet with a penchant for solving the most complicated puzzles of all (those involving the complex motivations and machinations of humans)-- may be the world's greatest (fictional) detective of the 20th century. Even so, he couldn't do it without the smooth and street smart Archie Goodwin. Reading these mysteries is always a treat, and purists may argue that the book will always be better than anything made for the big or small screen. However, I must differ, which is something considering I used to be a reporter and one of the subjects I'm certified to teach is secondary English. In other words, I'm the type people would expect to be one of the aforementioned purists.

Maury Chakin (who does an admirable job playing the eccentric and egocentric Nero Wolfe) and Timothy Hutton (who just about steals the show as the debonair and determined Archie Goodwin) so skillfully execute their respective roles that the viewer may feel that he or she has walked into one of Rex Stout's books.

The rhythm, the dialogue, and the narration are all faithful to the author's voice. The pity of this series is that it is limited to 20 of the 73 stories Stout penned using Wolfe and Goodwin. It's my understanding that the series didn't produce the revenue expected by the powers-that-be at A&E, which I attribute to the erratic scheduling rather than the quality of the episodes.

Not only do I highly recommend seeing this series, but also reading Stout's Nero Wolfe mysteries. If you do both, you will probably reach the same conclusions as I have: Stout's mysteries are intriguing, multilayered intellectual puzzles that are consistently entertaining and challenging, and the A&E series starring Hutton and Chaykin are the supreme screen adaptations of this skilled and underappreciated American writer. When I read a Nero Wolfe mystery that wasn't filmed by Hutton and Chaykin, I still visualize them saying and doing what Stout had Wolfe and Goodwin saying and doing.