Of all the TV series I have watched beginning to end, Deadwood is the one I keep coming back to.  Even though I've seen every episode countless times, I still pick up something new with each viewing.  It still makes me laugh.  It still makes me think.  It still gives me chills, and it still makes me cry.  It is a brilliant man, executive producer and head writer David Milch, at the peak of his powers as a storyteller.  Watching Deadwood is like reading a 1200 page novel from 150 years ago.  Broad themes in a small setting, complex and conflicted characters, and detailed scenery make for a completely immersive experience.

The plot of the series revolves around where order and community come from.  Deadwood was settled outside of U.S. territory in the 1870's after a gold rush, thus leaving it in complete anarchy.  Each of the three seasons is well-structured in terms of conflict.  The first season deals with how the inhabitants of the town arrange themselves in this lawless town.  The second season has the varying factions band together to thwart an invasive government.  The third season pits the town against the hyper-capitalism of mining magnate George Hearst.  Within that structure is several smaller stories that both manage to stand alone and meld with the larger themes.

The real strength of Deadwood is the characters.  Milch has created perfectly fleshed-out portrayals of historical figures and some made-up ones, too.  Saloon owner Al Swearengen is a ruthless operator who cannot help but long for an easier, more peaceful way.  Seth Bullock demands justice from those around him, but constantly surrenders to his temper and his libido.  Calamity Jane is a many layered character, tough and kind, offensive and caring, vulnerable and impenetrable all at the same time.  These are only a sampling of the many deep and conflicted characters in the show.  By the third season, there were nearly 30 cast regulars, all of which were people you genuinely cared about.

The only thing that could keep people away from Deadwood is the language.  Milch is a lover of dialogue, and he writes in complicated verse.  More than one viewing is required to even catch the most basic plots and motivations.  What can be equally off-putting is the vulgarity.  Those with sensitve ears can expect to be bombarded with f-bombs on a semi-sentence basis.  If you're having a hard time getting through the first couple episodes, check out the extras on the first season.  Milch explains why he wrote the way he did in a way that made perfect sense to me, both from a creative and an historical sense.  In those extras, he will divulge a lot of spoilers, but it's far better to experience the series than be turned off by its profanity.

The Complete DVD set, in addition to the many commentaries and extras included in the original single season releases, contains new material that makes the upgrade worth it.  Milch explains where he would've taken Deadwood had he been allowed to continue it in the most valuable addition.  A lengthy roundtable discussion with the actors is very entertaining.  Also included is actor Titus Welliver giving a handful of convincing impressions of actors auditioning for the part of Swearengen.  The size of this set also equals one single season release, so if your shelf space is limited, the complete series set gets another plus.

In closing, Deadwood affected me more than any TV show I've ever watched.  I jumped out of my chair to cheer on Dan while he fought Hearst's man Captain Turner in a brutal fight to the death.  I quote Calamity Jane's beautiful description of a revealing dream.  I cried when Jewel asks Doc to "give her a whirl."  I could feel the joy in the town after Tom Nuttal's big ride.  For anyone who wants the most out of their TV shows, Deadwood is truly perfect.