First 10 minutes, "not bad".  Next 10 minutes, "hey this could be as good as the first one".  Soon after that, I think the budget ran out.  This movie starts out great, but not good enough to justify the fact you just spent 20 bucks on it.  This one will soon take its place next to any movie with DMX at the $4 DVD bin.  Maybe worth the rental cost if you really need to see what happens to the Transporter in this one.

The driving scenes were great as always, but good lord the special effects suck.  How bad?  We'll if you have seen the computer effects in "Escape from LA" (which at the time were also mediocre effects), you've seen the effects in Transporter 2 (Snake Plisken would have helped out).  I honestly think I could spend a half an hour on Windows Paintshop and come up with a more believable looking plane-in-the-water shot.  Have plastic models become so expensive these days that they won't use them in movies?  Does everything have to resort to cut rate, near 2D images?  Worked for South Park I guess.

Acting, acting, acting!  It's really an important component of making a movie, or one would think.  Every female role in this movie delivers awful performances so bad that they distract you from everything else going on because you can't get your mind off the question of "how the hell did they get in the movie?".  Then we get to Matthew Modine.  Man, this is really a low point for Lauden Swain from Vision Quest, and he definitely gets his award for "Most Miscast Role" right behind Bill Pullman as the President in Independence Day.  Honestly, Modine, drop down to the next weight class and go after Schute again at the Vision Quest High 25 year reunion.

JS, the transporter, he carries the show the whole way, and you've got to give the guy credit for that.  Great fight scenes bar one (another effects blunder: Dear Director of this Movie: make sure in the "Transporter 2: Criterian Collection Special Edition DVD" that you CUT the scenes of the metal (rubber) pipe bending as a person gets hit with it).  JS - Good work for saving everyone who invested in this movie from the poorhouse.

All in all, 1 star for the car, 1 star for the Transporter, and the rest went right out the window when a 9mm pistol caused a helicopter to explode instantly (not just start smoking and go down, but explode like when Joe Dirt and Kickin' Wing were shooting roman candles at the fuel barrel.)  I shudder that I own this.