Today's newest filmaking savant is Wes Anderson who pays an awful lot of homage to the French New Wave and 1970's American film wave that brought you Harold and Maude. I've often wondered if or why 'Local Hero' is never mentioned in his list of formative film experiences. 
This gentle, wistful, whimsical comedy is never anything but subdued and perfect-pitch. Comedies today have become so broad (zoolander) or over the top (something about mary) or stylized (coen brothers) that a more restrained eye I fear suffers. The aforementioned all please and are a cut above the rest, but what makes 'Local Hero' so different and beguiling is how it builds slowly not resorting to contrivances to do so.  This picture, site and sound, feels organic.
In life it usually follows that the reward is always in the journey; something that is usually only evident in hindsight. And so it goes with LOCAL HERO. The story follows a Texas oil executive, Mac (the always great Peter Reigert at his best) who is sent by his irreverent, eccentric-bordering-on-sociopathic Boss, Mr. Happer (Burt Lancaster), to a Scottish coast town to purchase the land to locate an oil refinery on the basis that he's Scottish. The irony is that Mac is not actually Scottish (his last name assumed when his parents entered the country) and a product of assimilation and rootlessness in his sense of community.
Upon arriving, the town slowly slips under his skin and he begins a slow transformation. The land is something untouched by the modern world, almost primal in its beauty. The people, hard working and eccentric. The catch is that they have their own plan: a poker game, as the head negotiator (Ewan Macgregor's uncle) puts it, to become "bloody stinking rich" off of the Yanks through the sale of their town and surrounding land. 
As both sides play out their hands, fate steps in, with Mac, almost in the middle, caught up in trying to do his job and secretly longing to stay (There's a really poignant scene where he pitches switching lives with the local Accountant/Inn Keeper). 
Ultimately, the movie helps remind us of how we quickly forget very simple pleasures. The dialogue is smart, terrific really, it's message sweet and sad and the interactions quirky without feeling forced. This is the independent cinema should be.