Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon) is a perky, popular blonde who expects her boyfriend will propose to her the night the movie starts but instead he dumps her because he thinks she's not smart enough and he'll need a smart woman if he wants to run for political office by the time he's 30.  Elle loves him and figures the way to get him back is to prove to him that she's smart and to do that, she figures the perfect way would be to get into Harvard Law School where coincidentally her now ex-boyfriend is going.  She takes an exam and makes a video for Harvard to see.  Surprisingly, she ends up getting in.  She doesn't fit in there since her Harvard class-mates are more laid back with their clothing and attitude then Elle is.  Elle finds out that her ex-boyfriend has dumped her for a girl that he dated before her.  He even calls his new girl the pet name that he used for Elle right in front of Elle.  Still Elle is determined to win her man back.  To do that, she applies for and gets an internship with her professor's law firm.  Her ex-boyfriend and his current girlfriend are on the team too.  They help in a case of a woman accused of killing her husband.  The woman accused of murder is the person who used to teach Elle's exercise class.  Elle knows she's innocent but no one on the team thinks so.  Can Elle save her former exercise teacher and prove to her ex-boyfriend, her Harvard Law associates and herself that she's not a dumb blonde?  She had gotten straight As and was articulate.  If she had been doing poorly and was a bad speaker and then suddenly improved when she got into Harvard, it would have been less believable though a fashion major getting in Harvard Law is still a stretch.  It's a very cute movie.  It seemed like it could have even gotten a G rating.  It might have had a couple profanities but that was it.  No sex or violence.  The movie was much better than I thought it would be.  It was cleverly written in some parts and Reese Witherspoon gave a great performance in it.