I think a lot of people who seem to almost stumble on to this film, think they are getting an unseen episode of the Star Wars Saga. They are then disappointed and hence write bad reviews.

Yes it's another dystopia themed 1984 film, or if you like that dumb down feeling day in day out, hey you found your Utopian society! Where it's an offence not take your drugs!
Admittedly it does not seem to have the originality of Brave New world or 1984. The film talks of the `standardisation of consumerism'. However, on closer inspection THX and his associates seem to live in sterile, cubist, white-wash apartments. The only things in thier apartment, that hinted at consumer consumption, was the crass 3D TV entertainment and a full drugs cabinet.

I remember seeing the unaltered version, i.e. non CGI enhanced version, late at night on TV, in the 1980s. I found it quite disturbing and still do today. I cannot understand the need for Mr Lucas to back and tinker with his previous productions. This was low budget film, of 1960s-70s, that now seems slightly disjointed with its `new' enhancements', as in the fast car scenes, the CGI kills the iconography of that scene. I hope that he leaves his films well alone, once finished!

This re-mastered version with a second disc of extras, is well made and thought out. The second disc is a revelation. When played on an up scaling DVD player, the film appears as if it was done in HD format DVD. The quality of picture and sound is amazing. As an all round product, it works well, sans the CGI!

All said and done is it worth the purchase? In short yes, the extras give real insights. Even modified, this movie stands up well through the passage of time. Like so many films that supposedly show the future, that were made in the latter half of the twentieth century, this film does not seem dated. If you had not heard, or seen any of Robert Duvall's work, you would think the movie was made in the last few years. If you do not buy it, then rent it at very least. The story line leaves a little to be desired, my feeling here is that Mr Lucas was heavily influenced by 2001, made a few years earlier. He rather wants to let the sound and the moving image tell you the tail, as opposed to the dialogue. As for that car chase sequence? Well Mr Lucas likes tinkering with rscing cars and the oppertunity arose to use it the film, these themes, believe or not run through his Star Wars saga. Hey didn't the Duvell character run over a wooki? Whats all that about?