I know it may be sacrilege, but I think Batman beyond is my favorite Batman. I completely love all the other Batman cartoons, with the possible exception of the Batman which I never got to watch much.

The story follows a troubled teen whose father is killed after Bruce Wayne has retired as Batman. I won't spoil anything for you, but the kid falls in with Bruce Wayne and eventually becomes the new Batman. I like it because it's sort of takes the best bits of Spiderman, a kid without a whole lot of money and with his own problems, and flawlessly merges it with the financial backing of Bruce Wayne and thus explains how he has all the gadgets. The new Batman suit is just simply awesome, though purists may not be happy because it has more features like a jet pack and invisibility than your traditional Batman costume. In essence the whole suit is the utility belt.

There are a handful of characters brought over from the old Batman series, but since this one takes place a good distance in the future they could only bring characters they could explain. For example, in one episode Mr. freeze is brought back but that's explained by his slow metabolism making him virtually immortal. The Joker also makes a return, in an unexpected way, but that isn't actually in the series that's the return of the Joker movie which I'd also recommend. The new villains they created for the series were pretty good. My only regret is they got only about three seasons to show them off. I heard that the show was canceled because they needed the animators for the Justice league series, which ran for about four years including the two seasons of Justice league Unlimited.

Whenever reviewing a cartoon series, I was like to add a comment about the females in the show. Anyway, with Batman beyond the animation makes the women look a little scrawny. Legs and bodies are a little too angular and not all that attractive. The same is true for the men I guess, but I don't swing that way so I can't say for sure. That's all, just if expecting the women to look like they do in the other Batman series you'll be disappointed.

Do yourself a favor, if you enjoy Batman at all give the series a try. Even if you don't agree with me that it's the best or that it's not "truly Batman", it's a great cartoon series in its own right.