The cast and crew of Mortal Kombat receives my good graces for their valiant efforts to make this movie a resounding success. The plot stays true to the original story of the video game. The characters are the closest to how video game adaptations to the big screen should be. The fights are spectacular, and the music does extremely well to go with the flow of the movie.
The movie opens up with a young man fighting the main antagonist, Shang Tsung, on the sacred grounds of the Temple of Light. The man (revealed to be Liu Kang's brother) loses, dies, and has his soul taken away by the sorcerer. Liu Kang wakes up from this dream and sets off to the Temple of Light. Meanwhile, U. S. Special Forces agent Sonya Blade chases after the famed arch-criminal, Kano, at a concert. Then in Hollywood, discredit martial artist/actor Johnny Cage makes another failed attempt at making it big in Hollywood as the best martial artist in the world. Eventually, these three humans unite on Shang Tsung's boat with the elder god, Rayden, to learn about their driving goals with one common purpose: to save the world.
The characters are perfected to a 'T.' Liu Kang is a disgraced Order of Light monk who must accept his destiny as the chosen one. Johnny Cage is a failing movie actor who works to prove himself to the world. Sonya Blade is a self-reliant Special Forces agent in pursuit of Kano, the one-eyed criminal. Meanwhile, the cast is supported by a plot that includes a former princess of a lost kingdom (Kitana), a four-armed champion (Goro), and three awesome ninjas with fearsome powers and ferocity: Sub-Zero (freezes things), Scorpion (shoots out a snake from his hand and teleports), and Reptile (Reptilian-like ninja with the power of invisibility).
Instead of showing off its display of blood and gore as depicted in the video game, the cast and crew took a chance to develop a morality tale with awesome fight scenes and a plot that would literally blow your mind. Believe me when I say, it's a fight movie like you've never seen before.
How would you feel if one day, the world began to rest on your shoulders? If you were the only thing that stood between your world and its destruction, what would you do? This is an extraordinary circumstance that just happened to pick you as the chosen one. Given the purpose of the mission, you could not afford to lose.
"The essence of Mortal Kombat is not about death, but life." No one could have said this better than Christopher Lambert's character, Rayden. His part is done so well as the God of Thunder and the Protector of the Realm of Earth. There is nearly a religious undertone echoing throughout the movie. Even when the Thunder God cannot interfere with the world's problems, he teaches them that man is responsible for their destiny. Their callings, however undesirable, are necessary to combat the everyday evils that surround our world. If no one will take responsibility, who will?
This movie receives the highest of accolades in my opinion. I hope the cast and crew continues to produce high-quality action flicks such as Mortal Kombat. It'll blow you away.