Of the famous film noirs, The Big Sleep has never really gelled for me, after three or four viewings so far. There are some memorable scenes, to be sure, but the plot is notoriously, needlessly convoluted (even Bogart and Chandler were said to be confused by it) and lacking a clear dramatic arc; it feels more like a loose framework upon which to hang a lot of catchy dialogue. And really, the dialogue often comes across as too clever by half, too stilted, stylized, and baroque, even by noir standards; compare the great zingers in The Maltese Falcon, where the really clever lines do a better job establishing character and fitting into a swift-moving, clear, and engaging plot.

For noir with the great Bogey, I'd recommend The Maltese Falcon over this film not merely on the aforementioned grounds, but also for featuring delightfully memorable performances by Lorre and Greenstreet (and Elisha Cook, Jr., who makes a more memorable impression there than in The Big Sleep).

Of the four Bogey/Bacall pairings, their first, To Have and Have Not, has hotter romantic chemistry. The crime drama Key Largo is better constructed and benefits from the presence of two film legends, Edward G. Robinson (in fantastic form) and Lionel Barrymore. Dark Passage is certainly worth a watch, with a few particularly memorable scenes and a great supporting part by Tom D'Andrea; as striking as some of the visual moments are, the extensive use of a subjective camera admittedly might strike some viewers as awkward and gimmicky.

For noir in general, there are plenty of stronger options than The Big Sleep: The Third Man, Laura, Out of the Past, Kiss Me Deadly, The Big Heat, Double Indemnity, Gilda, etc.

And regardless of how well you might like The Big Sleep, I think all film buffs will agree that this DVD transfer (the 2000 release) is weak and in need of further restoration. At least with this disc you get to see the original cut along with the familiar release version, and there's a short but informative video essay explaining the differences between the two versions and how they arose. (In a nutshell, there was a push to play up Bacall's role in the film, still only marginally effective to my mind.)