This was a difficult movie to get through objectively -- throughout the entire thing, we find ourselves staring at the obvious similarities between the events in this film and the events that have happened since September 11, 2001.
The story is pretty simple: President Walter Emerson (Kevin Pollack) is enjoying his unelected presidency (serving first as Vice President and later taking over for his President) when he and his campaigning staff are caught in a snow storm and stranded in a small-town Colorado diner.
Out of nowhere, President Emerson and his staff see on a cable news network (ala MSNBC) what appears to be the start of a war. Suddam Hussein's son has apparently invaded Kuwait and killed many Americans. The movie quickly turns into a series of back-and-forth arguments on whether to release nuclear weapons on Iraq.
The President hears "do it" and "don't do it" from Chief-of-Staff Marshall Thompson (Timothy Hutton), other advisors, his wife, and civilians who are trapped in the diner with him. The question becomes suspensfully clear: Will the President of the United States "nuke" a whole civilization?
I liked this movie simply because it was so suspensful. Not many movies "keep me on the edge of my seat," but this one did. It evokes a fear that is now all too familiar to us -- not knowing what's next and hoping, just hoping, that the people who are in charge are responsible enough to make the right decisions.
The entire movie takes place in just one location -- the diner -- the use of just one set is highly effective as it provides us with a sense of the President's emotional, as well as physical, isolation. We're right there with him, telling him what to do just as the other civilians who are trapped.
There's a scene in The American President where Michael Douglass, playing the President, must decide whether or not to bomb a building in some foreign country -- Deterrence is kind of like a prolonged version of that scene. In Deterrence, however, Kevin Pollack's President must decide whether or not to bomb a whole civilization, rather than just a building. Rating: 4 / 4.
SMITH TALKS: The Future of Movie Reviews ...