Of course my Blink Greatest Hits album would only include a handful of these...but then in the world of music BUSINESS, that album probably would only sell to small percentage of fans.  So instead I'll just make myself a burned CD with the classics or listen to the previous albums all the way through.  So in the fact that it's not at all representative of my idea of Greatest Hits, I'd give it 1 star.

That being said, this isn't an as much an album for hard core (owns budda and Ches. Cat or even dl'ed Flyswatter) fans as much as it is an album for people who have simply enjoyed Blink 182 over the years but probably haven't owned the albums.  And in that respect, this is good for that large group of people.  So it makes sense and deserves 5 stars (despite Down).

My overview of the Blink albums:

Cheshire Cat: It blows my mind that the first track on the first "release" full length album happens to be their best song ever.  Come on now, who can really say that?  Also notable is M+Ms for having the fastest guitar riff of all of the Blink songs.

Dude Ranch: Notable for being the best Blink 182 album to date.  This album contains the most complicated and intricate guitar parts and the best writing.  Don't believe me?  Look at the thinkness on the spines of the guitar tab books.  I own them all and Dude Ranch is the thickest and the most challenging.

Enema of the State: Notable for being an extremely solid album that you can listen to on a loop for a very very long time.  This is also the shortest (time-wise) and contains no joke songs.  Though I gotta say that Mutt and Dysentary Gary have hilarious lines in it.  Also notable is The Party Song for having the fastest sung lyrics (and they're good too!).

TOYPAJ: As far as quality goes, this did not meet a previous fan's expectations.  It was ok and it made Enema of the State look that much better (which made Dude Ranch look even more better).  Of course, the self-titled album made one long for the good ol' TOYPAJ days.  Funny how that works out.  This album also contains the most creative and hilarious videos.  Finally, this album does have Stay Together For The Kids which, IMO, has greatest guitar riff of all blink songs.

Self-titled: uck.  This is what happens when successful bands have way too much time to record (please stand up No Doubt).  Action is a better title than Feeling This.  Oh and when did Blink hire that piano playing 4th member?  Producer Jerry Finn makes bands poplular and makes record companies $$$.  He also cheapens music and allows bands to crutch on his producing rather than their talent.  As opposed to what Mark Trombino does for bands.  Trombino challenges bands to make more interesting and quality music while still making pop songs (ex. Dude Ranch, Bleed American, and Scenic).  Anyways, the highlights of this album are the melodic Feeling This and the quality of writing in Miss You.

Finally, I would never buy this CD simply because I own all of the songs already.  Not Now was on an Atticus CD and it sounds like a crappy Christian Rock song.  The cover song shows why Blink doesn't do covers at their live shows.  Sorry if this all sounds too negative... maybe I'm just in a bad mood when I'm writing this :)