This is not so much a review, just making others aware that even though most Blu Ray Discs have a specific zone and still play on any zone player, this disc will NOT play on anything but a zone A Blu Ray player.

*UPDATE*

I had an import PS3 on order from Hong Kong which has now arrived and plays zone A BD so I can give a few more words regarding the actual BD itself rather than the zone issue.

As has already been mentioned, it's an upscale. My previous viewing experience had been my Champloo DVDs via my PC so when it was on fullscreen the quality was never as good as a TV. This version is much better via the PC monitor (mostly due to the resolution).

I think the quality complaints here and on other sites, aside from the artifacting, are caused by what looks like filters and effects used in the original. I kept seeing what looked like sun glare whenever the sun/sky was in shot but then noticed that it appeared at other times when the sun/sky wasn't on screen. It was appearing when any light source or suggested light source was on screen and emanated from that source. My thoughts were it was a bad transfer but when compared with the DVD it was the same so I'm putting it down to some lighting filter/effect.

For perfectionists, the only 'error' I've yet to see is a quite noticeable red dot that appears on the cowardly samurai's chin during the hot spring scene on Redeye Reprisal (Ep.2) at 32:38. An annoyance similar to the error at the end of the first episode of the UK Gundam Wing box-set released by Bees.

Some time was spent debating whether this would be a worthwhile purchase as I own the DVDs already. Never-the-less, I pre-ordered but only afterward read about the upscaling and the problems it could pose. After that I cancelled the order then went back a week later and saved it in my basket umm-ing and ahh-ing on what to do. I decided to wait and read the reviews post-release which were no different than expected, so I bit the bullet and took the plunge and I'm glad I did.

In my opinion it's definitely worth buying even if you already own the DVDs, especially at the price it's going for now ($44.99). As TeamReveal stated, this is probably the best we will ever get.