The film that inspired a whole generation of exterior illuminators! Subsequent to the release of this film, houses soon began Christmas-light makeovers, which I think really adds to the atmosphere of the season! Chevy Chase and Beverly D'Angelo are superb in this John Hughes classic Christmas comedy - as is Randy Quaid. Clark W Griswold Jnr is anxious to have the 'perfect' old fashioned, fun, family Chritmas. But, as usual, nothing goes according to plan: Getting stuck under a truck in the opening minutes... becoming psychotic over the failing of the thousands of lights he's added to the building... ruining the Christmas of Tod and Margo (their yuppie, bourgesois next door neighbours)...Eddie (Quaid) kidnapping Clark's boss because Clark didn't recieve his bonus cheque, needed to pay for a swimming pool...a storm sewer exploding (and the poor cat!)...the tree getting burnt...etc...Leading to the house teetering on 'the threshold of Hell'! There are many great moments in this movie. My personal favourite is when he takes Eddie and the kids sledging: a silicone-based kitchen lubricant Clark's company invented is smeared onto his sledge, propelling him like a rocket! The scenery is so Christmassy here. I have a selection of Christmas movies I stack around the video at this time of year. Christmas Vacation takes prime position. I have seen it *so* many times yet I am still not bored with it. Note: There is mild bad language in the PG version, but for those with younger children, some versions have worse. I really don't know why Hughes had to do this; this film could be accessible to all, as with Miracle On 34th Street (Hughes' remake). As is usual with John Hughes, those typical huge mansions (as with Home Alone, Ferris Bueller and Uncle Buck) feature. The photography is very Christmassy and it just might get you in the mood... The DVD has the trailer (including the other Vacation trailers), different language options, production notes etc... I am glad to have found a site that sells those reindeer egg nog glasses too!