"The Fog" isn't the deepest or most intriguing horror movie I've ever seen.  But it's definitely enjoyable to watch, and this remastered edition is something every horror fan should have in their library.
The plot is that, 100 years after their ship was sunk thanks to a conspiracy by the founders of a town, the ghosts of the crew of the sunken ship return in the form of a supernatural fog so they can exact their revenge on the town.  Adrienne Barbeau plays a radio DJ caught in the middle of the fog, with Jamie Lee Curtis as a hitchhiker and her mother, Janet Leigh, as the organizer of the town's centennial celebration.  They all face the wrath of the vengeful spirits.
The movie starts off with a bang, with eerie happenings in the town, like car alarms going off and bottles shaking.  But after the initial attack of the fog, the movie slows down considerably, as they spend the next 45 minutes setting up the celebration and the story of the ghosts.  Once the fog rolls in, the action picks right back up all the way until the end.
The acting is good in this, as all three of the main actresses convey John Carpenter's style very well.  There are also good supporting actors, like Hal Holbrook as the priest who discovers the truth about the fog.  The special effects are also pretty good for the time period, with the fog actually seeming like it's alive, particularly in one scene where it climbs up a pole and kills the power.  There are a couple of shots where it doesn't look good, but they're brief and you only see the fog from a distance anyway.  The ghosts, while never seen up close except for once, are all shown in shadow with glowing red eyes, which is a very eerie effect that's done well.
The real strength of this movie is the tension built throughout.  Carpenter has proven time and time again that he's one of the best at doing that, as proven in "The Thing" and "Halloween".  In this one, he builds it up via the opening storyteller scene, a "Poltergeist" type sequence and the middle part where they talk about what happened a hundred years ago.  Carpenter also does a nice job of surprising you, as the use of shadow is done masterfully here.  There's one scene in particular towards the end where you can just barely make out the outline of one of the ghosts, but you really have to be looking carefully for it to see it.
As far as extras, this one has two documentaries, one current and one from when the movie was released, and both are very interesting.  There are also outtakes and deleted scenes, which are very interesting.  
Like I said, horror fans should definitely pick this up, particularly fans of John Carpenter.  While I like "Prince of Darkness" better, this one is very good, especially considering that "Prince" is so hard to find.