VIDEODROME is one of David Cronenberg's finest films.  While not for everyone, it is sure to provoke some interesting reactions.  If you're going to dish out the money for the Criterion release then you probably already know about the film.  So, I'll just skip ahead and review this new set.

DISC 1.

The new transfer looks amazing, this is the best I have ever seen this film look.  There are two commentary tracks included.  The first is with Cronenberg and his D.P. Mark Irwin.  It's a very informative track.  Cronenberg always gives great insights into the workings of his films, while at the same time leaving just enough for the viewer to still have some questions to be answered alone.  The second track is with the films stars James Woods and Deborah Harry.  Woods is great while Harry doesn't really have much to say.  Still it is well worth a listen.

As if the film wasn't good enough Criterion included Cronenberg's short film "Camera" from 2000.  This 6 minute piece is amazing, thought provoking, creepy and even a little funny.  It is an excellent companion piece to Videodrome.  A must see for fans!

DISC 2.

The second disc has a few documentaries about the effects of the film and how they were produced.  They are all very interesting for fans of the film and for those interested in special effects in general.  Also present is the Videodrome transmissions and the footage from Samurai Dreams, with commentary by Cronenberg.  Fear on Film is a 26 minute round table discussion from 1982 with John Landis, John Carpenter and Cronenberg lead by Mck Garris.  While not the most exciting convo fans of the three will enjoy it.  This  disc also has stills from the set and lots of behind the scenes stuff as well.

This is the DVD of 2004 for me so far.  The film is amazing and the extras are a lot of fun.  I'm someone who general doesn't care about the extras on a DVD, but I have watched everything on these discs over the last day and it's all great stuff.  For sci fi fans, Cronenberg fans and those who like intelligent cinema this is a must have.