What's all the fuss about. Ms. Hepburn doesn't act. Our leading man is plodding and mumbles half the time. Eddie Albert's restraint is utterly-unbelievable. Any two-bit paparazzi worth their weight in tin would have turned in those pictures for millions! What is Peck left with? A long life of knowing he's got a girl friend he can't touch, see, or speak with.

I find this movie depressing. Hepburn chooses the stifling life of a princess for the "honor", instead of following the man she loves and running down that empty corridor screaming out his name as he walks out at the end, having chucked the whole royal kit-and-kabootle for her man.

Peck choose poverty instead of instant journalistic fame? Albert takes one for his buddy and is now stuck doing endless pin-up photos in his dank drab loft?

I mean really people. Would you like to live with the staff at the palace? Endless "League of Nations" speeches, and all the time wondering what the man of your dreams is doing? I'm sure she'd face the fate of Lady Di trying to escape her monotonous life. And to think she may even risk marrying someone like Prince Charles, a stiff approved of by her entourage. Depressing.

Peck is forever seeing what could have been as no one believes a word of what he says when he finally comes out with the truth on his deathbed. And the only source he has is the former pin-up photographer down the hall in the rest home, the one who constantly mutters at the ceiling, "my photos coulda been a contenda" while taking pictures of nurses with his 1950 pinhole camera, the one without film they let him keep for patient management sake.

Depressing.

We should have heard a "WAIT" as Peck walks out of the last frame. Audrey running, her tiara falling to the marble floor, shoes flying off, holding her dress as the entire press corp chases after the both of them. They jump into the river again. Eddie, knowing she'd break, waits in a scooter and off they go into the roman sunset for a TRUE ROMAN HOLIDAY.

But NOOOOOOOOOOO......