Katherine Heigl's breasts and Ashton Kutcher's pecs are the real stars here, since they're by far the most appealing things in `Killers,' an almost entirely flat action-comedy. Katherine Heigl once again plays herself, the gorgeous-and-perfect-yet-not-gorgeous-and-perfect-enough-to-keep-a-boyfriend girl, this time named Jen Kornfeldt. What's unfortunate is that this time around, Heigl's usually persistently irresistible charm isn't enough to keep things afloat. Kutcher, meanwhile, makes an attempt to go for something different but ends up also utterly and completely playing himself (the occasionally lovable, occasionally obnoxious goofball who's altogether impossible to take seriously).

Jen is, for some inexplicable reason, on a vacation to Nice, France with her parents immediately following a not very thoroughly explained breakup. While there, she naturally happens to run into a well-toned and half-naked CIA agent who decides to romantically pursue her. Why Kutcher's character, Spencer, takes any interest at all in Heigl's, given her behavior upon meeting him, is dumbfounding.

Fast forward years later, and the two have married and settled into a slum of suburban tediousness, with Jen still blissfully unaware of her beau's history of assassinating and Spencer supposedly being done with all this killing brouhaha. Unlucky for him (or for the audience) the story continues when seemingly friendly members of his plucky neighborhood start trying to off him during block parties and business meetings. Jen of course then finds out that-gasp-she married a government spy, and we head into the same batch of silly nonsense the hundreds of other movies of this type offer.

In the likes of `Grey's Anatomy,' `Knocked Up' and '27 Dresses,' Katherine Heigl managed to miraculously break the ordinarily unconvincing pity-me pretty girl mold by playing genuinely relatable, sympathetic characters. She sadly fails here, in what is probably her first wholeheartedly bad movie; although `The Ugly Truth' had definite ups and downs and was widely panned by critics, it had far more heart and laughs than this miserably vanilla attempt at a romp. Almost none of the jokes click, and the movie never goes anywhere (literally and figuratively, in fact; minus the brief Nice sequence, almost the entire movie is confined to the small, stuffy suburb).

Ashton Kutcher is, as most people know, only selectively charming, but his trademark goofiness wears thin within seconds here, in spite of this movie's apparent attempt to portray him as suave. Catherine O'Hara is wasted as Jen's one-dimensional alcoholic mother, although ironically she offers most of the only legitimate funny moments in the movie.

`Killers' spirals into further depravity as the movie comes to a close with an endless slew of clich&eacute;s-there's the overblown `everyone's out to get us' paranoia, the leading lady vehemently refusing to have any part of her beau's questionable lifestyle when we all know she'll cave in by the movie's end, the not-all-that-surprising `twist,' and of course a Mexican standoff. `Killers' fails in just about every area it can, and is one of the most pristine examples of how drearily rehash-y romcoms have become in recent years. Its stars may be beautiful, but don't be fooled by this confection's wrapping-its true taste leaves much to be desired.