At the time of its domestic release, "Musa-The Warrior" was the most expensive film ever made in Korea, an ambitious epic that took five years to complete but paid off handsomely at the Korean box office.
Set in 14th Cent. Imperial China, after the Ming ousting of the Mongol Yuan dynasty, the film follows a band of Koryo warriors escorting a diplomatic missing from Korea in an increasingly hostile China. When the Ming have them arrested and exiled as spies, the warrior band find themselves outcasts in the hostile landscapes of the northern Chinese deserts, and caught in the crossfire between the Ming and Yuan forces.
Discovering that the Yuan have taken a ravishingly beautiful Ming princess prisoner, the band begin to see a way out of their desperate situation; if they can rescue her and return her safely home, they will both heal the rift with the Ming and  find themselves a way home to Korea.
Of course, things don't run quite as smoothly as planned, and the exhausted and gradually diminishing band of Koryo soldiers, led by a general beginning to doubt his own ability and tacitly challenged by a recently freed slave whose supreme martial abilities come as something of a surprise, have to fight a series of bloody battles as they make their demanding journey through the deserts and forests of China.
These battles will be a bit of a shock to anyone expecting the high-wire martial arts mayhem of classic Hong Kong cinema---in their emphasis on hard, physical fighting and relentless bloodletting they owe more to "Gladiator" than to "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon".
Nevertheless, "Musa" contrives  to make its conflicts as visually ravishing as possible; the glinting swords, spurting blood and severed limbs are just parts of a larger canvas in which violence is every bit as balletic as in Peckinpah's `The Wild Bunch" and just as unavoidable as in Kurosawa's "Seven Samurai"---both of which films, with their romantic evocations of doomed fighters, come to mind when watching "Musa".
Despite its influences, though, the film is never derivative of earlier epics and its tale of heroism and violence is counterbalanced by its beautifully, if economically, drawn characters and its reflections on the nature of freedom, choice, and individual responsibility.
All in all, "Musa" is a glorious achievement that ravishes the senses and touches the heart.