Undoubtedly the Nazis left a huge impression on the world. One we can't seem to shake. A relatively small country that took on the world, with a weird little megalomaniac at the wheel, and went down in flames. I guess it was so absurd one could only stare with dropped jaw at such a bizarre occurrence. History has since discovered much about them that wasn't apparent at the time. Yes, they were into some weird stuff. Yes, Hitler was into the occult and he had his minions scraping the globe for ancient artifacts. He also had them doing some research in areas of science far removed from the rest of the western world. Maybe this is why we keep dredging them up and making these whacky movies about them.

The first movie I remember seeing was "Shockwaves" which dealt with Zombiefide Nazi SS soldiers who are held up on a tropical Island with their "master" and come to life to hassle some unsuspecting castaways. Just released is "Dead Snow" with a similar story but set in the snowy mountains of Sweden. Somewhere in between is this movie,"The Outpost" which is set in current times in Eastern Europe and is similar again except that these Nazi Zombies flit between this dimension and an adjacent one through the operation of a machine patterned along the line of ideas generated by Einstein's "Unified Field Theory." Another departure is that in this movie there aren't any unsuspecting victims. These guys are tough hombres. They are a group of mercenaries hired to escort a guy on a mission from a big corporation to scout out some land they bought for "mineral" purposes. Of course the guy is lying. He's looking for this Unified Field machine. He finds it and as the situation unfolds, all of them come to realize the depth of the kimchi they're in.

This is good, tight film making. It's a small band of mercs but you do get to know most of them as the story progresses. Though some might complain they are more "types" than personalities, they are drawn well enough for the viewer to get a bead on who they are as the kimchi hits the fan.

This is a lean 90 minutes. The story progresses at a steady pace. The cinematography and editing are solid. It sports a good, mood inducing soundtrack. Some of the sound mixing is top shelf as well. The sound of the guns going off in the bunker have a great ring to them. The acting is good to even all around. The only actor I recognized is the group's leader, but all do a stand up job with their parts.

There are a few holes in the plot, such as; why hasn't anyone stumbled on this site before? It's not like the place is hidden or anything. Also there is the fact that the zombies do things during the climax that they don't do during earlier scenes. (I can't say without spoiling things) But these are minor complaints given the overall quality. This is also a good example of what can be done on a limited budget. Not a lot of money was spent here but it was spent wisely. If you like this sort of thing this is a great way to spend 90 minutes.