I enjoy a well acted and well written movie, especially if it's a true story, and most especially if the story is based upon a newsworthy event.  For me, "The Insider" delivers on all accounts!  I found myself  completely captivated by this film from start to finish.  It combines a  compelling true story, sparkling performances by an all-star ensemble cast,  an outstanding screenplay filled with sharp, crackling dialog, a  beautifully haunting musical score, and cinematography which is darkly  brooding.  All add up to a taut and suspenseful real-life thriller.  
This  is the riveting tale of how the lives of two men - Jeffrey Wigand,  the famous tobacco industry "whistleblower," and Lowell Bergman,  a producer for CBS News' "60 Minutes" - become suddenly entwined  in the maelstrom of one of the most controversial  political and social  issues of the mid-1990s: the conspiracy by American tobacco companies to  enhance the addictive properties of cigarettes, and then cover up that  conspiracy. It is  the story of how one lone "whistleblower"  publicly exposed the secret actions of the tobacco industry,  and endured  his enemies' public vilification for his efforts.  It's also the story of  how one of America's greatest and most respected news organizations, when  confronted by the truth of  that "whistleblower's" information,  betrayed its own journalistic principles in the face of  a threatened  lawsuit by the tobacco industry.
This film abounds with superlative  acting.  Al Pacino delivers yet again a stunning performance as Lowell  Bergman, the self-assured, still idealistic-after-all-these-years CBS News  producer.  Russell Crowe,  nominated for an Academy Award for his portrayal  of Jeffrey Wigand, richly texturizes his character - in part a tormented  soul,  in part an easy to dislike cynical tough guy, and in part a dreamy  idealist.  Christopher Plummer brings a perfect blend of shirty arrogance  and pomposity to the character of Mike Wallace.  Other performances of note  include Diane Venora as Liane Wigand; Philip Baker Hall as CBS News boss  Don Hewitt; and Michael Gambon as Brown and Williamson CEO Thomas  Sandefur.
If you enjoy an intelligent, fact-based  movie, one that is  unafraid  to confront real and controversial issues, and one  delivers a  powerful message, you will most definitely enjoy "The Insider."  It is a movie that I will view and savor...over and over again!