"Carnage" is an adaptation of Yasmina Reza's original stage play "Le Dieu du carnage (God of Carnage)" for the big screen, written and directed by Roman Polanski, in a translation from the original French by Michael Katims. Owing to Polanski's fugitive status in the USA, it was filmed (despite its Brooklyn setting) in Paris.

The film makes excellent use of minimal set additions to the original stage production and the four cast members are all outstanding in their performances. The story itself is a comedy of manners, as two sets of parents to teenage boys meet in an attempt to resolve matters arising from a playground scrap between their respective sons.  The script explores the basis and boundaries of politeness versus honesty, social conscience versus self-interest and portrays the disastrous consequences of testing those boundaries. The excruciating shallow play-acting of social correctness is gradually replaced by the increasingly painful exposition of the truth as social hypocrisies are systematically dissected to display the selfish core.

Throughout the film's 80-minute duration, allegiances and alliances shift, battle lines are drawn and redrawn, as prejudices, obsessions, fears and foibles are successively exposed, probed and ridiculed, emotions running high as opinions and values are successively attacked and defended; and the opening tensions are dissipated through farce.

The script sticks closely to the original stage version, varying only in providing a neat storyline twist using the opening and closing title visuals, which poignantly shows up both the futility of the parents' attempts to resolve issues through their own "grown-up and adult" discussions, as well as the fact that all are equally at fault. The humour is subtle in its steps but hilarious in its cumulative effect. Those who know the play may be disappointed with Polanski's direction, which gives a less intimate but more claustrophobic feel to the enterprise. The film is nevertheless first rate and is heartily recommended.