The Hellsing series is very seductive, yet it contains no explicit "mature" scenes.  Still, its not prime-time family fare. I can't explain the allure Hellsing has.  I've tried to placate my Hellsing addiction by watching other Vampire oriented anime offerings, but they don't come close.

Technically, Hellsing is often times more of a slide show that sporadically drips and oozes than animation as we know it.  The storyline often wanders from the far-fetched to the ridiculous, yet it is still the most compelling production I have watched in ages.

The title and name "Hellsing" is loosely based on the Bram Stoker incarnation "Van Helsing", vampire hunter and arch enemy of Stoker's most famous ficticious character "Dracula" (which is fairly safe to say that all 20th and 21st century Dracula variations are spun off from).

The difference between the Hellsing Organization and Stoker's Van Helsing is that the Hellsing Organization uses and houses vampires, including one very special vampire in particular, to hunt and terminate other vampires...instead of merely hunting and killing vampires.

What is alluring is the relationship(s) developed between servant(s) and master(s), laden with both evil and good, given with devotion without surrender.

The English version voice acting is superb.  Chicago's Crispin Freeman as the vampire Alucard and London's Victoria Harwood as his master Integra Hellsing are proof that exact opposites do attract.  The interaction between the two have left fans guessing as to the true nature of their relationship even four years after the series has ended.  Seras Victoria voiced by K.T. Gray emmanates nothing but innocence and deep love and devotion for her master, Alucard.  The elusive but ever-present emotional triangle between the three main characters, although subdued, quickly establishes itself in the first few episodes and remains as an ever-present theme throughout the remaining animated story.

We are also introduced to Walter, Integra's butler, who makes a great cup of tea and outrageous weapons for vampires to kill other vampires with.  I'm not quite sure what exactly Walter is or isn't, but he is more than adequately voiced by Ralph Lister.  Mr. Lister did such a great job, I found myself wishing I had a man like Walter on my side.  Walter was not only a more than an accomplished defender of the Hellsing Organization as well as a weapons innovator, he brought order, sense, and diplomacy to a rather chaotic story.

While the graphics have been technically surpassed, and the artwork is rather rudimentary, it is inspired and glows of raw talent.  I couldn't keep my eyes off of it even though there wasn't that much to see.

As far as the plot and story goes, while far-fetched and often times ridiculous, it was sophisticated. It never insulted the intelligence of the viewer.  For me, the characters themselves were so interesting, I wanted to know what was going on between them and found the plot incidental.

While very simple, the rockn'roll soundtrack still works.  It is not overbearing nor dated.

I understand Amazon will have a boxed set of the series as of August 1, 2006.  I read on IMDB that the author Hirano was planning an expanded in-depth release of the series in 2006.  I don't know per-se if the above release is indeed the rumored expanded set or a release of the 2002 series that we Americans are familiar with.  Either way, I do recommend the set over these individual disks, you will not only save money but you will be able to enjoy this rather short series seamlessly.

marf