Others have talked at length about the technical beauty of this film.  It is indeed very well-done, but what I enjoyed the most was its wonderful evocation of married love.  I've never seen a film that showed so well what it's like to be a newly-wed.  The couple are obviously seriously in love, but both are naive and discovering what it is like to live together, and making mistakes, the way you do in those first years.  It's wonderful to see a film that celebrates this.  So many films are about highly dysfunctional relationships nowadays.  This film celebrates the normal--not the perfect, but the normal--in a way that is charming and enjoyable.  If you are happily married (22 years in my case), it can really send you down memory lane.

In contrast to the married couple, there is the crazy but fascinating first mate who has lived a much less conventional life than they are clearly going to.  (The man keeps his dead best friend's hands in a jar. Like two pickles. Nuff said).  He, and this sort of out-there boy who also lives on the barge help to keep the story from being just simply sentimental.  The eccentric Pere Jules clearly doesn't quite understand the love that the captain, Jean, has for his wife (he himself is into one night stands, like the one he has with a gypsy who reads his palms) but when he gets how much the young couple need each other, he is the one who goes and brings the wife home, where she wants to be. All of this takes place in scenes of what look like great poverty from a modern point of view, but was just normal life during the depression.  The wife only has one dress, besides her wedding dress, and spends most of the movie in her bathrobe, but although her eyes open up wide when she see beautiful and expensive things in the shop windows, all that really seems necessary to her in the end is her husband.

The actors are wonderful--they make the movie seem so real that it's almost like a documentary.  When you finish watching this, watch Grand Illusion to see the beautiful Dita Parlo again.  She does a German peasant woman in that movie, just as well as she does the little French country girl in this one.  And then rent Boudu Saved From Drowning to see a another tour de force performance by Michel Simon, the first mate.