Financially, the most successful and in most peoples eyes the best ever; this Bond probably wont ever be matched. There was a tremendous build up to this movie; after a 6 year break in the series I thought that 007 was dead and was way past its sell by date. Only by drastically overhauling 007 would it ever survive; and boy, did it get modified.
Goldeneye exploded onto the screen with a new Bond, new cast, new music, new style, new (well, old) cars and, new watch. Everything was totally fresh and bang up to date, bustling with modern technology - computers, space weapons and The Internet; a funky electro soundtrack and domineering women.
What about the story? Cleaver. Cataclysmic space based weapon hijacked with the aid of a hi-tech helicopter and a computer programmer. The culprit? 006, James Bond's ex partner who was presumed dead. The cast? World class. Judi Dench plays M, like a strict head mistress (mmm). Robbie Coltrane brings us his acting magic as a comical Russian gangster and tough guy Sean Bean is 006. The actors who play Ourumov and Mishkin are world class too and of course the babes are legendary.
Brosnan? He is only good in GoldenEye, because he looks tense and serious, which is the way a spy should be, and he brings an air of vulnerability and realism with it, but a few times he tries to be funny and he just fails miserably and he is a little wimpy.
There are some good action scenes in this movie, like Bond being chased in his `60's Austin Martin by Xenia in a convertible Ferrari, but the main action scene, where a tank chases a car through St Petersburg is a waste of time. I would much rather have seen a decent car-chase, e.g. with the Ferrari and Bond driving something a bit more modern, like his new Z3, that only gets about a 20 second part.
I could go on for ever, saying I would change this, that or the other, but, for an all round James Bond movie this one stands out from the crowd by being refreshingly different, more refined than any other, and is probably the best Bond ever; so good in fact that it would have been a worthy ending to the series. God Save The Queen.