I have seen both the Shockumentary and the film based on this story and I have read through the reviews posted here.  It's strange to say but there is so much posted here, contradictory things, that I just have to agree with.  As a party promoter, Michael Alig probably was the "genius" that many people refer to him as.  However, it does not change what he has become...a murderer, nothing more, nothing less.  With all the success he garnered in such a short period of time, he probably could have created quite a comfortable life for himself.  Instead, drugs took over and look where he ended up..jail!  I guess he can legitimately use this as an excuse for his actions...I mean, take a look at some of the lunatic defense strategies that we have seen.  Does anyone recall the "twinkie defense" in the murder of Harvey Milk?  If Dan White can say twinkies made him do it and have jurors believe it, why not drugs?!  The anser is simple, we are creating a society in which no one is "really" to blame for anything they do!  As an educator, I see it all the time...parents finding excuses for why their children do what they do...and they all have one thing in common...it's not the child's fault.  It's no wonder we have juries believing that the twinkies, or the drugs, were really to blame...their own parents refuse to place blame on their children when they do something wrong.  Michael Alig's mother in this documentary does the same thing.  Personally, I do understand the desire to "protect our own" but if we truly care about people, we will begin teaching them to take responsibility for their actions.  While watching the interview with Michael from prison I was honestly appalled at what I saw and heard.  When he discusses if he's sorry for what he's done, everything he says is steeped in how what he did affected HIS life...he has no feelings about what HE did to Angel and Angel's family...everything is still about Michael and how his life is ruined.
In short, our society is creating people like Michael everyday...and we need to change that soon, before it's too late for us.  I think if more people saw this film, they would all come to the same conclusion...it's time to stop blaming everything and everyone else for what we do...and to begin accepting our responsibilty for our own actions...when we do something so horrible, we SHOULD feel badly about it...but for our actions' effect on others, and not what they have done to our lives.  Michael Alig made a choice and Angel is dead....I just wouldn't be able to live with the guilt if I had done something like that. But, then again, I was taught to see the value in another human being.