Bram Stoker would be shaking in his coffin if he were to see how vampires are being portrayed today on TV and in Movies.  Movies like "Twilight" and TV shows like "Vampire Diaries" are bringing Vampires out in the daytime, having them in intimate relationships dealing with "high school" drama.  Thankfully directors such as Neil Jordan ("Interview with The Vampire") and Tomas Alfredson stayed true to the legend of the Vampire.

"Let The Right One In", starring Kåre Hedebrant as "Oskar" and Lina Leandersson as "Eli" brings the classic vampire tale back with a unique twist.  The film is based on the book by the same name from Swedish author John Ajvide Lindqvist.  "Let The Right One In" begins with a man out in the woods collecting blood from a recently killed person.  Little do we know this collection is for a 12 year old vampire who has been living for hundreds of years.  It is a fresh take on the classic vampire dilemma: finding food and staying out of site and sun.

One of the many things this film got right was the atmosphere.  This is a Swedish film and was shot entirely in Sweden.  This was the perfect setting for a film like this.  The constant snow fall and dreary look of the town really added to the realism of the movie.  Unlike "Interview with The Vampire", I could relate more to this modern setting.  The director chose exactly the right times for the music score to come in.  He didn't saturate every moment like a lot of horror directors tend to do.

This story is a lot more than just a vampire girl trying to survive.  It is also a story of love and redemption.  Oskar is constantly being bullied by the local kids and he is always so retreated and alone.  Eli brings a sense of wonder to his life.  He finds in her an oddness that brings him out of his shell.  He builds a relationship with her carefully and slowly. She teaches him how to stand up for himself and gives him confidence.  It is an interesting back and forth between the two as their relationship builds.  A testament to the director and the actors.

This is a wonderful film that has single-handedly brought a genre out of the "sparkly" hole vampire films have been in for the last few years.

[...]