In the movie, Gandhi began his work against the injustices of the British Empire when he was a young man in South Africa. After returning to India, Gandhi had convinced himself that he must get in touch with the masses and persuade them to follow him in nonviolent and non-cooperative protest against British Rule. Through marches, demonstrations, and protests, Gandhi was able to bring the attention of the world to India by displaying the violence of the British empire and not retaliating with violence. Although Indian Independence was Gandhi's main goal, he struggled with the idea that Hindus and Muslims did not want to live together after India had gained independence.
Gandhi was able to lead a highly effective march in South Africa, and his success caused him to return to India where he could work for an even greater cause, Indian Independence.  Gandhi died at a time when he wanted to achieve an end the hostility that the Hindus and Muslims had towards one another.

The "Mahatma" (Great Soul) as he was called by his followers. While traveling through South Africa, and being thrown off a train because of his race , until his death he led his people with hope and strong beliefs.  The British ruled the nation of India, and treated the citizens as second class. In this movie I realized Gandhi chose to be a better man.  In the movie the Hindu religion was depicted as a strong loyalty to ones beliefs. Religion was not only a belief but a way of life, not only something that is faith filled but makes up who you are. From the ways of what level of the cast system to the stages in which you follow throughout life. This shows that the Hindu religion requires strong will and devotion. After watching the movie the way of the Hindus was  beyond belief . Gandhi possessed such a strong devotion, faith filled belief in his way of life that was admiring. I was sorrowful for the violence  throughout the movie. Many lives that were lost and people that were injured and the greatest loss of all the death of Gandhi. Hindu religion was well portrayed in this movie it lead to a greater understanding of the Hindu religion and the "Mahatma" (Great Soul) Gandhi.