Season 1 of "Millennium" featured fantastic performances from its cast and a dark atmosphere that made "The X-Files" look sunny by comparison. Unfortunately much of that year ended up as little more than a "murder mystery of the week" fare. Thankfully the second season, supervised by former "X-Files" producers Glen Morgan and James Wong, changed all that. The second season began with the suspenseful 'Beginning and the End', where Frank Black pursues the mysterious Polaroid Man who kidnapped his wife. This episode also introduces the comic relief for Season Two, computer hacker Brian Roedecker.

Even though 'The Beginnning And the End' would fit perfectly in Season 1, the subsequent episodes follow a different path that greatly improved the series. Starting with the second episode, 'Beware of the Dog', and continuing with episodes such as 'The Hand of St. Sebastian', 'Owls', 'Roosters', and the haunting two-part season finale 'The Fourth Horseman/The Time Is Now', we find out that the Millennium Group has existed since the beginnings of Christianity and isn't nearly as altruistic as Frank Black (and the viewers) originally suspected.

In addition to the Millennium Group storyline, we also learn more about Frank's childhood via two holiday episodes: 'The Curse of Frank Black', a Halloween-themed tale where Frank encounters the ghost of a neighbor who committed suicide, and 'Midnight of the Century', an emotional story of Frank trying to mend the relationship between him and his father. In the latter we find out that Frank was not the only one with a strange gift, as his mother was blessed/cursed with the ability to see angels. Lastly the second season even showcased two comedy episodes: 'Jose Chung's DOOMSDAY DEFENSE' and 'Somehow Satan Got Behind Me'. These hours of television are completely different from the average "Millennium" episode (to say the least) but they're still worth a look nonetheless.

I could continue rambling on and on about the greatness of Season Two, but you'll really have to buy the DVD set and form your own opinions. The DVD set does come with some bonus features, but the only one of worth is the Season Two documentary "Turning of the Tide". The rest of the bonus materials are second-rate at best.