With so many bad reviews of this movie, I felt the need to set some of the record straight and give this movie the five stars that it deserves.

The Butterfly Effect is different, and some people just can't handle a movie that doesn't have a typical Hollywood plot with a typical Hollywood ending.

This is a thinking man's movie. The idea that if you can travel back in time you can change the future is by no means a novel idea. What's unique here is the movie's overall darkness. There are several different alternate realities each one done with incredible detail.

This movie has the best inside prison scenes I've ever seen ina movie. I learned from watching the movie with the directors' commentary that it was filmed in in a real prison, and the extras were real prisoners.  Incredible.

I've noticed a lot of subtle things in the movie that the directors didn't even mention in their commentary (which is well worth listening to).

The DVD is doublsided and contains two versions of the movie. The Theatrical release version and the Director's Cut which is the movie the way the directors original wanted it to be seen. Luckily I watched the Director's cut, not realizing how signficant the differences are. It turns out to be a good thing that I never watched this movie in the theater, because the Director's Cut on the DVD is by far superior to what was shown in the theater.

The movie was filmed with a relatively low budget, only $13 million, which explains some of the negatives people may have. A $26 million movie has a little more in the way of slickness, a little more leeway to take more time in filming and get better performances from the actors by having more takes to choose from. Nevertheless, I had no idea that I was watching a "bad performance" until I read reviews after watching the movie.

This is the best movie I've watched in many months. If you don't like movies that are different, then skip it, but if you like a unique, dark, and atypical movie, watch the Director's Cut and enjoy.