I first saw this movie in the theater, in 3D, because I "had" to go with a group, and they had young children.  I was actually looking forward to taking a nap for a couple of hours after getting only 4 hours sleep the night before.  But after the first couple of minutes, everything changed....

From the very beginning, this movie captures your attention and doesn't let go.  The graphics were absolutely outstanding!  And the jokes were actually... funny!!!  And the MUSIC?  Totally engaging and blanketed the entire film with a Spanish ambience that only added to the already exciting experience.  The 3D from the theater was superb, I might add.  But many weeks after leaving the theater, I saw this was available on Amazon... and I just HAD to HAVE it!  Everything the movie offered couldn't possibily have been diminished to the point where ordering this DVD to watch at home in 2D would be pointless.... just for the music alone!

Every twist and turn in the movie was unexpected and exciting.  Every time I thought I could predict what would happen next -- BAM! Within seconds, the movie took a new turn with head-slapping moments of disbelief.

I wouldn't dream of putting any spoilers here to rob you of the level of enjoyment I had when viewing it for the first time.  I was no fan of Puss or anything remotely related to Shrek as far back as Shrek 1.  But THIS movie?  IT WAS OUTTA SITE!!!!!!!!!

Note on the Three Diablos:  This product does have The Three Diablos DVD in the package for several dollars more than buying the featured movie alone.  This movie/short doesn't have the impact the feature movie does, nor did I expect it to.  It's only 11 minutes in length, and features three "baby" pusses with swords as the "stars"... sort of like "little pusses in boots," the way the "baby muppets" spun off the original muppets.  I only saw parts of this short, but that was on You Tube (the full 11 minutes version) and before I purchased this set.  The only reason I ordered this set and not the movie alone was that I knew I'd be pulling it out for some of my friends' kids who visit from time to time and thought they may enjoy it (kids' taste do often differ from adults' taste ... never met a kid yet that said "I hate that cartoon!" -- they love everything!!).  And I certainly didn't want to enter a situation where those kids knew about the second movie's existence or may have had it at home and then ask ME if I had it.  I didn't want to disappoint the yunguns who would be watching this and thought the little bit difference in price was not unwarranted and was worth having it on hand.

Ages 1 to 101, get the popcorn and enjoy!  Adios, amigos!