"The Last Emperor" is a great film. Somehow I think that this film can be used as a material for the study of Literature. As the movie moves foward, we can see the different themes of deception, friendship, freedom, fate and growing up.
After watching the film, I think Pu Yi is the most tragic figure in the show. He was seperated from his mother at the age of 3 and was locked up in the Forbidden City for most of his childhood and teenage days. As the Emperor of China, he lived his days in comfort. However, beneath the world of comfort and enjoyment, he had actually been hidden from the truth that the Qing Government had already been overthrown in 1911. He didn't knew anything as the imperial servents had always assure him that he is "The son of heaven" and will rule China for "10-000 years". He only discovered the truth when his brother brought him to peep at the president of the republic. 
Next came an English tutor who taught him in this teenage years. I viewed their relationship as a friend-friend relationship rather than a tutor-student relationship. The tutor symbolises change for Pu Yi. With him, we see the westernisation of Pu Yi. I am terribly moved when the two of the them had to be seperated later in the story as the tutor had to return to Britain. Before his departure, Pu Yi had an Chinese ensemble playing for him and this shows the depth of their friendship.
When Pu Yi married a 17 year old princess, his life changed. This princess somehow pushed him further towards westernisation. The marriage (like many other old tradition marriages)was arranged. On their wedding night, they were strangers and were not willing to made love. The Empress suggested that they will be a "modern couple" and will only make love when they had knew each other well enough.
After years of imprisonment in the Forbidden City, Pu Yi and his family was finally forced to leave the palace. 
After they left, Pu Yi and his 2 wives began to lead a life of western luxury. They danced at dance parties, ate western food, listened to radios and do whatever the westerners do. Later, his 2nd wife had a divorce with him because she did not want to be Pu Yi's mistress.
The story swept quickly from the divorce of the 2nd wife to the part where he was invited by the Japanese to their newly captured Manchuria. Manchuria was renamed to Manchukuo, and Pu Yi (who was ex-emperor of the Qing Dynasty [already overthrown] which was ruled by the Manchu people)was crowned the Emperor of Manchuria. In fact Pu Yi became the puppet-emperor of Manchuria where the Japanese used him to conceal their war-crimes. Pu Yi wanted to be an Emperor once again... So much that he did not even believe in his wife who told that he had been used by the Japs. When his wife gave birth to a child, the child was reported dead. I personally believe that the child was killed by by the Japanese. His wife was later sent away and I think this was the aim the Japanese wanted to accomplish by killing the baby. When the war ended, his wife came back. She became insane and was in a devastating state. However, during the war days, Pu Yi never had a chance to escape the clutches of the Japanese. This was his second prison after the Forbidden City. 
  After the war, Pu Yi was obviously captured. He became a war criminal and spent 10 years in the reform centre. This was his 3rd prison. He was released in 1959 when he was 53. During these days, he learned many things. Most of all, he learned to be independent. In his younger days, he lived a life of an Emperor (Emperor of the Qing Dynasty and Emperor under the Japanese rule of Manchuria)where everything was taken care of by his servents. Now, he knew how to do everything himself.
  Before the show ended, the movie showed Pu Yi returning to Forbidden City as a visitor. Nobody knew who he was and what he is in the past. It greatly sadden me. Can you imagaine a person who was once an Emperor, feared and respected by thousand of people had now become a nobody with no status. However, it was not his fault. He became the Emperor at 3 and knew nothing about the evils of the world... Sigh!
  "The Last Emperor" is indeed a great movie which brought a lot of mixed feelings to me :-)!