In 1995, Director David Fincher joined Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt in
the years most disgusting, tense and talked about films.  Seven is a
look into a persons liking for gore and blood, all done through the
theme of the 7 deadly sins.  Unlike Fight Club, another Fincher film,
Seven was made right before the DVD format was introduced.  The
initial release of Seven on DVD was less then spectacular.  The New
Line Platinum series is visually one of the most stunning releases to
come along in a while.  Sonically, this release will surround you with
sound elements of such clarity and depth, it may seem too real at
times.  The 2 disc package is similar to the Fight Club package.  It
has two nicely designed discs in an attractive package.  The menu
design on the discs are very impressive.  What may seem confusing at
first becomes quickly understandable and easy to navigate throughout.
Disc 1 has the movie along with commentary by David Fincher, Morgan
Freeman and Brad Pitt.  It also has commentary by the Screenwriter,
the Editor, a Professor of Film Studies and the new Line President of
Production.  These commentaries are very insightful, informative and
entertaining to listen to.  The scene selections are nice, shown with
still pictures and a title of each sequence.  Disc 1 also has a simple
'color bars' setup.  Picture quality of this movie is outstanding to
say the least, especially if you compare this release with the
previous DVD release.  The original negative was used this time, and
the darkness of this film has never looked so incredibly clear.
Contrast and colors are beautiful...not too saturated for this type of
film, but quite stunning.  Sharpness is well executed throughout the
film and I found it hard to see any grain or dirt on the picture.
This is obviously a first class transfer and the anamorphic widescreen
picture is superb.  Sound quality is even more amazing.  When you go
to your setup in the menu, you have a choice of English or French
subtitles.  You also have a choice of stereo Surround Sound, Dolby EX
Surround Sound or DTS ES Surround Sound.  Whatever type of system you
have, this film shines.  If you have a surround system with a great
subwoofer, you will not believe your ears.  This film has been rebuilt
from the ground up and remixed for DVD.  Effects elements and
atmospheric sound effects will simply blow your mind.  Dialogue is
clean and clear.  The sound department responsible for this soundtrack
should be applauded.  They did a superb job.  Disc 2 has a bunch of
extras that will keep you busy for quite a while.  The first extra on
the disc is an "exploration of the opening title sequence."
You get to choose from different angles and different audio options
while watching this sequence.  You can watch an early storyboard
drawing of the title sequence, a rough version of the opening and the
final version of the opening title sequence.  You can choose from a
surround mix, a Dolby EX mix that was made just for this DVD, or a
high quality 24bit/96Khz stereo mix.  It's amazing how many options
you get to pick from just to watch something about the opening title
sequence!  You can also listen to commentary by designer Kyle Cooper
or the Sound Engineers Brent Biles and Robert Margouleff.  Wow!  The
next pick on Disc 2 is where you get to see "Deleted Scenes"
and "Extended Takes" from the film, all with or without
David Finchers commentary.  There are seven scenes to choose from and
are all fascinating to watch while listening to the commentary.  The
next pick on Disc 2 are the "Alternate Endings." You have
your choice of the original "test" ending with or without
David Finchers commentary.  You also can look at an animated
storyboard of an unshot ending.  This was done really well and both
offer subtle differences and insight into the ending that is in the
film.  Next, you can look at a bunch of Production Design stills with
commentary.  This was also done very well, considering how amazing the
Production Design really is for this film.  You next have choices of a
bunch of other still photographs from the film, including John Doe's
photographs, Victor's decomposition, police crime scene photographs
and production photographs.  These come all with commentary, and this
is the first disc where I actually enjoyed still photos on a
DVD....very well done.  Another choice you have on Disc 2 is called
'The Notebooks." This is a very informative sequence of stills
with commentary on how those infamous notebooks were created.  When
you choose "Promotional Materials," you can watch the
theatrical EPK or the movie trailer.  As with most DVD's, you can
choose "Filmographies" where you can see the resume's of all
the actors and many crew members.  Finally, for all you technical
people out there, you can choose "Mastering for the Home
Theatre." This is a fantastic look into the film to video
transfer of Seven, as well as the color correcting, telecine, audio
mastering and mixing of Seven for the theatre as well as the remixing
for the DVD.  All are played with scenes from the film comparing the
last release and this release of Seven.  The commentary is both
educational and entertaining to listen to.  In conclusion, Seven is a
must have DVD.  Picture quality is outstanding.  Audio quality is
fantastic, and the extras are wonderful.  If you loved Seven in the
movies, or want to replace your old DVD release with this one, buy
Seven and prepare yourself for 2 hours of amazement.  If you are a
lover of crime thrillers then get this disc. If you enjoy Morgan
Freeman, Brad Pitt or David Fincher then get this disc.  It would be a
sin NOT to get this DVD! Enjoy!