The characters (except for Donofrio) are compelling and endearing. But I'm troubled by the way Donofrio is viewed by women as something of a hero for putting her ambition ahead of her child. He's not a baby; he's a person. I can't help wondering how her son feels that his mother didn't want him from the start, continually made it clear that he was in the way, that her was a bother, a burden, an obstacle for her and made life ever so much harder for her. She had to manage him, put up with him and basically get over him so she could pursue self-actualization in New York. She's one of the most narcissistic characters I've seen in film.

Raising her son was an awesome responsibility. She was caring for, teaching and shaping a human being who would then be a huge influence on many, many others whose lives he has touched and will touch during his own lifetime, not to mention how he raises his own children, and the lives they'll touch. His worldview, his sense of self, of society, of honor, of manhood, of responsibility, and of relationship to others all come from his mother. But her focus seemed to be on feeling sorry for herself. As the son's character says in the movie, "everything happens to her, not anyone else." As she's discussing whether to go to California with a former classmate, she says she wishes she wasn't smart, so that she would be satisfied "being here". How insulting to those who are smart enough to realize how important it is to help a person grow up well.

I encourage everyone who can to go to college, and I'm glad that Beverly kept trying, but it seems to be that her son was not as important to her as her own self image and ambition. How sad for him. And for her. To think what she missed out on during those years. I agree with those reviewers who view this as a cautionary tale, not only for urging girls not to seek love by sleeping around, but also for urging young mothers to think hard about what's really important, and to embrace their role as motherhood, not to resent it.