While cosmetically, the "Seven Faces" (as our fan club affectionately calls it)  is not polished, the film's appearance does not reflect upon the deeper issues revolving around Tony's performance.  When  one considers Tony's roles, consider his first words - "Excuse  please"  This is nothing other than brilliant.  Tony is simply  apologizing for presence as a big star in a small town performance.  He is  the big goldfish in a small bowl.  Even his name is small - it is  "low" -not l-OW! as others call him.
Some people don't  understand Seven Faces. They think it stinks. They think the acting is  horrific and the sets are from a local middle school.  They also don't  understand the plot (especially the part about the family and the snowman).  The humor does fade at times.
!Excuse!  They are wrong.  Tony is superb.  The film shows off his assets very well.  He can be Pan, he can be a snake,  he can be a woman, he can be Merlin.  This is important.
Why was this  movie made?  We don't know, but we are glad that it was.  The dragon is  bigger than all of us. Tony is better than all of us.  Dr. Lao is older  than all of us. Understand?  Neither do I!  Tony explains, then  dances.
In fact, Dr. Lao is a seven ring circus that makes viewers dance.  Not only does Dr. Lao save the town he also saves our soul.  He captures  our imaginations and prevents us from falling into the pitfalls of modern  materialism for we ARE the townspeople and we must not sell our lives  inorder to promote business! 
Tony takes on many roles, as many as it  takes to show us our souls and urge us to look deeper than we've looked  before.  What man is not changed after seeing the despised snowman or the  pitiful Merlin who can no longer produce the same magnitude of magic.  Merlin is despondent because of youth's reluctance to believe, the plight  of the downtrodden Indian, and the villains belief that man is a miserable  evil creature.  But Dr.Lao is bigger than all this.  Simply put it is a  showcase for Tony's talent.  This movie glorifies Tony's ability.  The  greatest actor in the modern arena.  
Seven Faces defies categorization.  In a video store, where do you find it?  Academy Awards section? (It won  one!) Horror?  Drama? Mystery?  Cult classics?  Adult? NO: FANTASY.  It is  beyond the average film in all ways.  it is fantastic.  it is lao.
Don't  forget the time of Communist rule - the discussion of "dictators"  and capitalists at the beginning of the film and the fact that Lao is from  China.  "Seven Phases of Chairman Mao?" 
"Who You? Who  You?" I am Randall - greatest of all magicians.  No sight is sadder  than Tony alone amongst the crowd during the circus performances. he has no  peers.  he has no friends.  he is alone with himself and shall always know  only his own magic.  
The Tony Randall Fan Club