I first watched Buffy the Vampire Slayer when it first came out, and I was only seven years old. Back then I enjoyed it for it's neat clothes, bright colors, spunk, and fun. I bought it later on when I was around 10, and made my family and friends watch it every day! I eventually grew out of that phase, put it away, and let it collect dust for many years after. I am now 20, and just the other day decided I wanted to watch it again. I have a new found appreciation for this classic 90's, B-movie, vampire flick. It is a lot more witty than anybody is willing to give it credit for. It depicts everything in it's own stereotypical light... Valley Girls: dim-witted airheads, who shop all day, and think bugs and the ozone layer are plaguing the environment... Vampires: night-walking, cape-wearing, pale-faced, hissing, heathens..who fly (a lot of people are against the flying in the movie because it's not in the show, but in all reality, every other movie vampire has the superspeed/levitation/flying ability that is lacking in the show)... the cheerleader/jock relationship...the shallow, uncaring mother (the opposite of Joyce from the show)...the bright-colored spandex/jackets/dresses/jewelry of the early 90's. It's all there! My favorite thing about it has to be the dialogue. There are SO many quotable moments in the movie and silly phrases that are terribly hard to forget (like anyone would want to anyway...(see the quotes link back on the 'Buffy' main page)). It's irreverant, silly, goofy, pointless, and just an all-around good time.

I really think that I should make it perfectly clear, though, that the movie is NOTHING like the show. There are very minor references in the show to the movie, but that's mainly to Joss Whedon's ORIGINAL script, and not to the final cut. The only thing they truly share is the title/title character. I've read more than my share of complaints about the movie and how it lacks the depth of the show. This is very true, but it's not supposed to be deep; it's supposed to be campy. The cast is fun, and there are appeareances of many well-known 'celebrities' (Hilary Swank, Stephen Root, Ricki Lake, Ben Affleck, David Arquette, etc.). Being a super fan of both the movie and the show (the movie first, of course) I prefer to not compare the two at all. It's the proverbial apples and oranges dilemma...two totally different things that have no business being compared to one another. Fans of the show looking to find major prequel elements are sure to be disappointed, but fans of B-movies, cult classics, and good old-fashioned fun, are sure to be pleased by this over-the-top, hilarious movie.