Why are over 100 people reviewing the product if they don't actually have it? It is expensive yes but that's the appeal. If EVERYONE could afford it, every Potter fan would buy it, making it less special imo. I have this product and it is worth every penny.
If you break it down its actually not that bad. 20$ for each blu-Ray plus 10$ for each DVD, that's 240$. Plus the bonus disc for 20$ Plus the box for say 50$ (and the box is amazing with all it's compartments, looks beautiful displayed and good quality.) So far that's 310$ Add another say 50$ for all the extra little goodies and you are up to 360$ All of this packaged as a set with a limited amount made.
I will tell you that this is worth it if you are a fan. Sometimes you just gotta splurge on yourself once in a while if u really want something. If you cannot justify the price there are other smaller box sets out there. But it's getting tiring seeing all these "reviews" from people who are really just complaining about the price. Do that in a discussion forum.

My Review:
This is amazing! I was going back and forth about buying this for a while and I am so glad I did. The Box is amazing, The maps, booklets and horcrux are so great. I DO think it's a little crazy that they include the DVD and BluRay. I think They could have made it a tad cheaper if they split it up. But I can see some reasoning here. Many people still do not have BluRay so it makes sense to have DVD, but I can see in the near future BluRay taking over DVD the way DVD took over VHS... Who wants to pay hundreds on an item that will soon be obsolete. This way if you are one of the many people who still do not own a BluRay player you can still enjoy it now, and many years down the road when you are forced to get with the times. For Myself it's great as I have one TV with a DVD player and another TV with a PS3 for my BluRays.
The reason this item lost a star for me is because ALL of my discs had light scratches on them. Not enough to effect play but they should not have been there. Amazon.ca was wonderful at helping me out there and compensated me right away. Although, I was one of the Canadians that had a problem with the first disc. The disc plays as soon as you put it in the player and I have no menu options. I contacted WB quite a while ago and they told me when they have the correct first disc ready they will ship it to me. It has been weeks and I have heard nothing. Besides these problems I am pretty happy with my purchase.