At last, the release of La Femme Nikita: The Complete Fifth Season ends the anxious and agonizing wait by devoted fans.  When the plug was suddenly yanked on the 2004 Season Two release, many (including this fan) speculated that the further release of LFN was doomed.  Fortunately, Warner Brothers came through despite these predictions and LFN permanently lives on in crisp DVD format.  Credit and thanks must be given to Warner Brothers for continuing to appease fans despite a modest, if non-existent, mainstream demand for the complete episodes.

Because Season Five is brief at just eight episodes, the LFN creative team was able to focus their attention on crafting an especially enjoyable, thrilling and no-holds barred ride for the viewer.  Other television spy and espionage series too often seem to poke along from point to point to tell an excruciatingly complicated story.  In the series 24 for example, the viewer has to endure endless expository dialog, drama, and pointless action scenes: Lots of big bangs, explosions and gunfire that often lead to a weak cliffhanger at the end of the hour.  Nikita instead uses a more tilt-a-whirl style of story telling: A tilt-a-whirl that doesn't seem to stop!

Season Five picks up where Season Four ended.  Apparently, Season Four was meant to be the last but due to fan demand and too many loose ends, an abbreviated final season was produced.  Ultimately, Nikita accepts her destiny by the eighth episode but not without plenty of hard-hitting action, clever dialog, and plenty of surprises along the way.

The set itself is neatly packaged.  Extras include a recently filmed retrospective by the series production staff and features commentary by actors Eugene Robert Glazer (Paul) and Cindy Dolenc (Quinn).  The scrumptious cancelled scenes are included, as well, giving us fresh, never before seen footage.  One R-rated cancelled scene in particular provides one last eyebrow-raising LFN surprise.  This one was apparently even too racy for risk-taking network USA.

If you own the first four seasons, you'll definitely want this one to complete your collection.  If you're a new fan, buy all five seasons.  You won't be disappointed.