APOLLO 13 is one of those wonderfully crafted films, where the climax carries no surprise, no plot twists, no unexpected revelations, yet is immensely satisfying.

Directed by Ron Howard, the splendid cast led by Tom Hanks, Ed Harris, Kevin Bacon, Gary Sinise, Bill Paxton, Kathleen Quinlan and a host of others, combine in an absorbing, riveting story of the space program's finest hour - the triumph of human ingenuity in the face of overwhelming technical failure.

The crew of Apollo 13 faces certain death, when a catastrophic explosion in the service module threatens to transform the command module into a floating sepulchre.  By their wits, and that of the dedicated ground crew, they use the lunar module as a lifeboat, while a cadre of dedicated professionals devises a way to bring the fragile craft back to earth.

The technical aspects of the film are splendid, and Mr. Howard recreates the images and feelings of those heady days of the space program.  The widescreen presentation is the only way to go.  Special effects complement the story perfectly: they are wholly satisfying without the gratuitous excess so common in more recent movies.  The pacing and dialogue are impeccably timed as the NASA team - crew and support - overcome challenge after challenge in the desperate drive to bring Lovell (Hanks), Haise (Paxton) and Swigert (Bacon) home to earth.

The drama succeeds on many levels.  First, the actors in large roles and small are thoroughly believable - even when incidents and events are heightened for dramatic effect, they are completely credible.  Second, the dialogue (for anyone familiar with engineers, pilots, corporate managers, bureaucrats, etc.) is realistic.  Third, the writing is crisp, the timing perfect and the interplay among all levels of characters is exact.

The Special Edition has a number of exceptional features, including Ron Howard's commentary, Jim and Marilyn Lovell's audio, and the intriguing documentary on the making of the film.

APOLLO 13 is, in my opinion, Ron Howard's best work - and given his other films, that is really saying something.