What happens when you give a master documentarian (who is well-known for his work with Dylan, Hendrix, and Bowie) unprecedented access to the inner workings of a political campaign? He creates a living document of American history.

Let's consider this movie in its historical context.  It's 1992 and George H.W. Bush, incumbent Republican President of the United States and former Vice President to Ronald Reagan, is mounting his reelection campaign.  The last Democrat in the White House was Jimmy Carter a decade previous, but he was swept away after one rocky term.  Before him, Lyndon B. Johnson, the successor to JFK, also had great difficulties as president as he managed the widely-disapproved Vietnam War and saw his base split up from underneath of him.  Every President up until the 1992 election had been born before 1924 and came from the Traditionalist generation.

The Baby Boomers, especially those who were left-leaning, wanted someone they could call their own in the White House.  Generation X was also looking for a candidate with style, and a relatively new 24-hour news cycle thanks to Gulf War coverage was the way that most of them connected to popular culture and news (as well as MTV).  James Carville, a sharp-tongued liberal strategist, caught the eye of director P.A. Pennebaker early on.  He described him on Current TV's "Top 50 Documentaries to See Before You Die" as the most interesting person at the Democratic primaries.  He and wife Chris Hegedus began filming him, unaware that he was head of relatively unknown Governor Bill Clinton's camp.  They slowly became embedded into their so-called "War Room" in Little Rock, AK, with an understanding that they were not to go elsewhere and were not there to leak anything.  The War Room was a new idea towards a collaborative environment in a political campaign, opposed to a rigid departmentalized structure.  It was set up in response to the Dukakis loss in '88 when punditry thought that the Democrats could not fight back.

Also captured was thirty-year-old George Stephanopoulos, who many may undoubtedly know from his current work on ABC News.  In the film, he is the acting communication director who helps mold all of Clinton's messages and responses.  He is always on his feet and loving every challenge. While an audience at the time not in the know might have considered him as an undeserving yuppie through his various media appearances, this work proves that he is not, but instead focused and quite brilliant behind the scenes.  He and Carville helm an unstoppable dream team, with results arguably not seen again until Barak Obama's 2008 campaign.

The movie is powerful and important.  I consider now to be one of my favorite documentaries, as the filmmakers are so fortunate to have gotten such amazing access, and build a seriously engaging narrative because of it.  Hoop Dreams is the only other documentary in my mind that shares this kind of luck.  The film stands up against the test of time and makes you want to get involved in something greater than yourself.