Fox has gone all out to put out a great transfer of this great camp classic and has really given fans a load of extras in this two disk Special Edition of VALLEY OF THE DOLLS.

This two-disc special edition offers the following features...

Disc 1: Main Feature
2.35.1 anamorphic widescreen transfer
English Stereo & Mono
Spanish Mono
English & Spanish subtitles

Commentary by E! gossip columnist Ted Casablanca and Barbara Parkins.

Trivia Overdose: A Pill Popping Guide To The Valley Of The Dolls option that provides 'Pop Up Video' style trivia bits on screen as the movie plays out.

"Gotta Get off this Merry-Go-Round: Sex, Dolls and Showtunes" (don't miss this 49-minute documentary, found by hitting the "MORE" button on the first screen). Casablanca, Alonso Duralde and Michael Musto and Barbara Parkins are among those commenting on the film in this exhausting (and hilarious) tribute to the film.

Stills Galleries: There are six galleries, one each for Anne Welles, Neely O'Hara and Jennifer North as well as behind-the-scenes looks at the Costume Design, Production Snapshots and Sets & Locations.

Disc 2: Extra Feature:
The Divine Ms. Susann (15 mins.) is a look at Jacqueline Susann's life through interviews with people who knew and worked with her.

"The Dish On The Doll" (5 mins.), feautures noted gay film critic Alonso Duralde and Michael Musto among others and is great for obsessive fans. It points out early appearances by Nathan Lane (in the TV remake), Richard Dreyfuss, and Marvin Hamlisch playing piano in the background and various bloopers. It also talks about the excellent 1981 TV remake (with Lisa Hartman as Neely, Veronica Hamel as Jennifer and Catherine Hicks as Anne) and the bad nighttime soap opera in the early 1990s called VALLEY OF THE DOLLS. At the end of this short, there's a written notice that if viewers are interested in seeing the TV movie or soap opera put on DVD, they should go to Fox Studio's web site and let someone know. Unfortunately, the link they give doesn't work and (as of 6/27/06), Fox's web site doesn't even mention VALLEY as one of their releases.

"Hollywood Backstories: Valley Of The Dolls" (23 mins). This AMC-original documentary overs an overview of the book-to-movie translation and includes footage of Judy Garland as Helen Lawson.

"From The Medicine Chest - A Secret Stash Of Archival Footage": is a batch of older documentaries telecast around the time the film was released in 1967. Including "Valley Of The Dolls - A World Premiere Voyage" an excellent 48-minutes television special that Fox originally broadcast to promote the film's theatrical release. "Jacqueline Susann And The Valley Of The Dolls", (50 mins.) another TV special that details Susann's book and it's journey to the big screen.

Four Screen Tests: Tony Scotti (singing), Barbara Parkins (auditioning for Neely O'Hara) & Sharon Tate (phone conversation with Jennifer's mother) and a great test with both Tate and Scotti doing a long,walk-thru-the-pakr scene. (Sadly no lost footage of Garland as Helen Lawson or even the audio of her recording of "I'll Plant My Own Tree.")

TV Spots: :10, :20, :60
Trailers: 3:21 & 2:10

"You've Got Talent Karaoke: Follow The Bouncing Doll" in which you can sing along to three songs from the movie - "The Theme From Valley Of The Dolls" (with a bouncing pill), "It's Impossible" (with a bouncing perscription bottle) and "I'll Plant My Own Tree" (with a bouncing red wig that ends up in a toilet at the end of the song). Each karaoke sing-along plays over footage from the film where the number appears.

"Musical Numbers From Valley Of The Dolls" which offers you a chance to listen to John William's musical soundtrack. Eleven tracks are included and they play as music only with only the menu screen underneath.