The Wiz is an absolute gem that gets better and better with age.  It remains one of the grandest and most expensive black films (by 1978 dollars) ever produced.  And a note about the casting of Diana Ross - 1) She had the pipes to carry the role and 2) with the budget and star-studded cast this movie had, no one is going to cast an unknown in the lead role.  They wanted a marquee name, and names didn't get much bigger back then!

The movie is based on the general storyline of the classic book "The Wizard of Oz" and specifically the smash stage play "The Wiz".  This is the story you know in a new, fantastic urban setting. Although rated G, some scenes might be intense for viewers under 8.  The film is carried by the once in a lifetime performance of Ross, backed by very strong vocals by the rest of the cast (including Michael Jackson and a stunning Lena Horne).

The music created by Charlie Smalls and overseen by Quincy Jones is nothing short of brilliant.  Catchy tunes abound, but the trained ear will also hear elements of funk, jazz, blues and gospel. Little ears will also hear real instruments played by real musicians, increasingly a rarity in what passes for music nowadays.  The jaw-dropping Emerald City sequence, filmed on location in the plaza at the World Trade Center in New York, will remind you of the grand age of movie musicals - made all the more poignant in our post 9/11 world.

The one element that seems lacking in the film is the real connection with the characters.  I feel it in the first 10 minutes of the movie, and it returns in the final 20 minutes. In the middle, the director uses alot of wide shots to capture all the music and dance numbers.  It's necessary, but the net effect is we are quite a distance from the principals in many scenes, and as a result, there is a "coldness" of sorts to much of the movie.

Still, an absolute classic - it has entertained generations of people, and for us black folk, it is one of those cultural milestone movies (like The Color Purple) that everybody knows. By the way Universal, the thirty year anniversary (2008) would be a fine time to release a Special Edition with commentary from many of the actors and producers of the film!!

Enjoy this one!