Even though this is the infamous 2002 re-release version of Spielbergs E.T.(released originally June/82) which has had some CGI tweaking done to it and some footage taken and added,I still found it enjoyable.The said tweaking of E.T. is chiefly of him up close at various points from when we first meet him and inside Elliot's house,otherwise its all the same.Like Lucas with Star Wars,Spielberg took the "it's mine and I can do what I want with it" path,which it is and he has every right to do so.I am usually the first person to deride such cavalier attitudes when it comes to changing the original artistic intent and integrity of a movie.You just do NOT,period,and if you do you at least make available the original along side the newer version for comparison ,like Lucas finally did with Star Wars and Spielberg did after many years with Close Encounters.At one point both version were available(in Canada)but as of this writing that set is long gone to the Yukon;that's out of print for those in Newark.So what we have to work with is this version and I must grudgingly admit it is good.The CGI tweaking and insertion of newer footage is kept to a minimum and if you didn't know where to look you might not even notice it.
The story is well known.In California,in a typical suburban environment,out in the local woods one evening aliens are about.They are on a gathering expedition when one wanders off too far from its ship.When government agents come onto the scene in their pick ups the little E.T. flees to his spacecraft but he is too late and becomes stranded.The alien wanders into a backyard and into a shed just as Elliot is bringing in a pizza.He runs in the house but no one believes him.The next night he camps out and encounters his worst fear;a squat,funny shaped alien,or something, from who knows where.Elliot lures it into the house and into his room.One by one his brother,then sister are introduced to E.T.Right away it is apparent this strange creature has bonded deeply with Elliot who becomes his sworn protector and feels everything the alien does.
Through many cloak and dagger moments and just plain luck,little E.T. just missesbythismuch,getting seen by the mother.When she does finally see the creature it is terribly sick.E.T. with Elliots help has already fashioned a crude electronic device to contact his fellow aliens but being out of his natural element for so long has finally taken its toll.
The government people at the beginning of the film have been searching the area high and low and they finally pin E.T.'s location down and "invade" Elliot's home.They attempt to save the creatures life but to no avail.As Elliot spends some last moments with his dear friend now in a cryo-tube,E.T. suddenly pops to life.With the help of his brother he smuggles E.T. out but is pursued by local and government authorities.Elliot,his brother and three other friends on bicycles out outmaneuver them all and get the alien back to the original landing area just in time.E.T.bids Elliot and his family a tearful farewell.
E.T.is just a delight to watch,and really talks to the kid inside all of us.Even the head government agent admits that he was like Elliot when he was young and has been searching for answers all of his life;an atypical response but a nice one which fits the mood beautifully.E.T. himself was certainly one heck of a creation and Spielberg and company did a masterful job of bringing him to life on the big screen.Henry Thomas as Elliot and little Drew Barrymore as sister Gertie are stand outs.Spielberg had a certain vision of suburbia back in the 70s and 80s that while was refreshing to see was still a little tainted.His portrayal of tweens and teens as wisecracking Abbot and Costello`s,in front of and interacting with,parents was a little beyond believable.
Technically the DVD has been transferred into a 1:85:1 a/r and is clear and crisp.Extras include an audio track of the score,the trailer,a cast reunion,photos and a space tour.
All in all an enjoyable Spielberg film.The 2002 version includes minimal tweaks of E.T.with some CGI and some added and subtracted footage.It's not the original but it's the next best thing.I hope Universal re-releases E.T. in both versions again soon.Recommended.