Being a fan of fairy-tales; true fairy-tales that have not been "made pretty" by Disney and his ilk, and loving a film with strong gothic overtones and a touch of magic; I was rather well satisfied with this version of the tale of Snow White. Tastes range wildly and if you search long enough you are bound to find films that meet yours precisely. This was the case for me when I stumbled across this one. While this movie most certainly got mixed reviews when it was released (and still is it would seem if the reviews here are any indication), I personally found this one to fit my personal taste perfectly.

This 1997 version of the classic pretty well sticks to the one as collected by the Brothers Grimm. Yes, there are variations, but of the dozens upon dozens of renditions of this story on film, each has its own twist. At least this one kept to the overall mood, time and place the Brothers placed theirs. The origins of this story were quite likely German but most of the countries in Europe have there own. This film was shot in the Czech Republic and in Barvaria, and if for no other reason than to see the scenery; the wild woodland and ancient castles, then the viewer should consider this one.

This film is not wildly known which surprises me somewhat as the acting in it is wonderful. Sigourney Weaver plays a perfect wicked step-mother and Monica Keena fits the role of Snow White perfectly. Weaver's classic beauty blends well with the drop-dead gorgeous Keena. The supporting cast is made up of very talented actors...not a dog performance among them did I spot. (Well, there was of course a dog in this movie, but even he did a good job of playing his part). The costuming is some of the best I have seen in recent years.

Anyway, this is a very, very dark version of this particular fairy-tale; very dark indeed. I am at a bit of a loss as to how to classify it. It most certainly is not a horror picture as there is really very little to be frightened of. To call it a movie of "terror" is stretching the definition of terror a bit far in my opinion. Yes, there is blood, death and some rather disturbing scenes, but nothing that I would call over the top. I suppose if you stick to the premise of just what a "fairy-tale" is, you would be pretty safe. These old folk tales where made to scare children; and indeed adults, into doing what was write. They were passed on word of mouth from generation to generation before they saw print. They were told around the fire at night to show the fate of those who break the rules or willfully follow their base human nature. They were meant to teach that there were some very dire consequences for bad behavior. This movie most certainly does the job fairy-tales were made for.

For me this was a completely different version of this old tale but one that is just as valid of the dozen or more I have seen or read. I was entertained and to be quite frank, that is the only reason I really watch movies for.

Don Blankenship
The Ozarks