Okay, a few folks have said they did not like this film. Fair enough, I didn't like Good Will Hunting.
But let's take a look here. If you know what this film is all about, then the first half of it will astound you. I  mean, egg on faces? It comes startingly close to Benny Hill for 'want of a  laugh track'.
Ahh, but the warmth grows on you, and then...
The second  half.
Few scenes are as emotional as when Guido has to reassure his son  that the Jews 'aren't going to be made into soap.' The film takes a turn  for the harshness and doesn't let up.
Schindler's List was a phenomenal  film, showing the utter horror of the holocaust, but it missed one thing:  the notion of hope. No one in Spielberg's masterpiece continually believes  that 'life is beautiful'. All we see is the horror, the downfall, the pain.  And while that makes for a fantastic dramatic punch, it negates any humor  or spirit the prisoners may have had to blanket themselves from the  harshness, and this humor surely existed.
Guido knows very soon that he  is going to die. But, the love for his son outweighs the need to DISPLAY  hopelessness. If nothing else, he must protect his son. So he convinces him  it's all a game. Simple, buffoonish...
and damn identifiable. Who here  can honestly say they wouldn't do anything they could to protect their  sons/daughters from knowing the biggest evil on Earth? Guido manages to  keep his son involved in 'the game' while he himself knows it will most  likely end according to an evil thought.
The end scene, where Guido  realizes he is going to be killed, and yet does a goofy march to make his  son laugh, is one of the most powerful sights to ever be associated with  the trauma the Nazi's inflicted on the world.
If you didn't like this  film, fine. But don't say it mocked the Holocaust. If anything, it's a  tribute to the flame of life that wouldn't be blown out.
Laughter seeps  into any tradegy, if the love for life is there. Anne Frank said something  to the effect that 'in spite of all this, I still feel people are good in  heart'. She had hope.
She knew life was beautiful.
-CS