If you are a movie lover who watches movies over and over again. Or if you love documentaries. Or if you love B movies. Or if you love horror movies.

You need this DVD!

It will be the best $10 you ever spend! It's one of those addictive movies that you watch everyday like "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" or "In the Mouth of Madness" or "The Ninth Gate".

Such an improbability what is presented at the beginning of the movie and where the movie goes after that! A Southern dentist, very handsome and charming, has a nice car, nice house, beautiful ex-wife and daughter. The whole town loves him. Just a picture perfect setting.

And then it turns out he starred in this horrible movie, Troll 2. I know! I know! Lots of people love that movie. But, I did watch Troll 2 on Netflix instant play and it was too realistic for me! I'm always worried about poisoned food. And the food in Troll 2 is unbelievably gross looking. And I'm a pescoterian, so that Italian writer would hate me! The whole reason she wrote Troll 2 was she thought her vegetarian friends were hypocrites. ??? lol. I don't understand why...I think it's a great lifestyle. I've been this way for at least eight years...

Anywho! This Southern dentist and the director of Best Worst Movie, the child star of Troll 2, make the documentary worth watching! The real horror in Troll 2 is the actors' coming to terms with making that movie 21 years ago! Which makes Best Worst Movie awesome! Their reactions, and of course the cult fans it has finally gained after all this time, their completely opposite reaction to the movie, undying love and praise, is such a dichotomy. Which is awesome! And I totally appreciate that guy getting the Troll 2 tattoo. I've gotten tattoos of things I love (different aspects of my music and cats). I feel you bro!

The funny part is you don't have to really even see Troll 2, since Best Worst Movie has all the best clips of Troll 2 in the documentary. But, yeah, watch Best Worst Movie, then Troll 2, then watch Best Worst Movie again. And you will understand the "horror": the horror that a movie such as Troll 2 was ever made!

I love Italian horror movies, especially Dario Argento. And I agree that the filmmakers of Troll 2 knew how to make a good movie, you can tell with how the film is paced and written. It's just that Troll 2, is not a good movie. But, I can totally understand fan obsession with movies and their want/need/joy in watching them over and over. I do that myself. So, I really connected with the Troll 2 fans. They're all awesome. I just watched Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf last night for the 25th time!!!

Also: anyone notice Shandi from America's Next Top Model Season 2 getting her shirt signed at the New York Troll 2 premiere? That has got to be her! Tall and skinny with glasses and still looking fabulous, just now with lots of cool tattoos!

Hail Michael Stephenson! My new favorite director!!! I love this movie!!! Best Worst Movie is part of my all time top five, for sure.