Marketed as a documentary, this is in point of fact merely non-fictional entertainment a 'documentary', according to its historical definition it is not. That established we can move forward and evaluate this film as such.

Deep Throat defines a peculiar episode in America's popular culture and begs to be dissected against a backdrop of political, cultural, moral, social and artistic appropriation and significance. Unfortunately this film comes nowhere near to completing or even tackling such a noble task. Instead it simply sets out to provide a brief chronology of the film and it's main players and then seeks to paint a very superficial and somewhat biased wash over the film and it's subsequent oppression and persecution under Federal Law.

In all honesty, before they loaded the camera with film, I doubt the filmmakers had established a coherent brief or rationale they intended to pursue. Neither does it appear that they had a defined set of objectives, goals and truths they wished to explore. There is therefore, subsequently, an enormous sense of lack of cohesion and ultimately a clear absence of a defining central thesis to this work, something which ultimately has a very negative impact on the quality of the film.

Rather like the assassination of JFK, Deep Throat (the film) leaves us with more questions than answers. Questions that over time blur, fade and become all the more difficult to answer. As people pass away and memories fade - as fiction morphs into popular fact, so the ultimate Truth becomes even harder to distinguish. Sadly this film really does very little to address those questions and truths, and indeed really only serves to take us further away from discovery and ultimate closure.

If one does a little research one can find a lot more pieces of the puzzle than were presented in this quite shallow and mediocre piece of entertainment. This lacking is indeed rather questionable, in terms of the underlying motives for presenting or misrepresenting the Truth can only be guessed at. Let us hope that the reasons were not malicious and merely the bi-product of an inadequate and inexperienced film-maker out of their depth.

To summate. What we have here is not really a documentary per se. Certainly not of the pre Michael Moore kind, the REAL kind. What we have instead is a 'truthiness' documentary, something Moore, Spurlock et al. have all become so famous for; documentaries for the T.V. fed generations. Sadly the functions that these kinds of films essentially perform, is to weaken both the ultimate Truth and the subject in question, being supposedly 'documented'. Another fake coin tossed in a fountain, that no-one can distinguish from the real ones and that no-one wants to make the effort to get in, get wet and retrieve. Ultimately, what this film represents is a wasted chance.