I really love this movie. I knew I would ever since I saw the trailer in the theater, the visuals of which gave me chills - reality breaking like glass, businessmen happily diving off a balcony like synchronized swimmers diving into a pool, a man screaming as he explodes into a swarm of blue butterflies, and so on. But there are just as many graphic elements of this film that are stunning on their own, without the added element of bizarre, metaphorical goings on - the sunset over a city skyline, an abandoned amusement park at dusk, or two friends simply walking along a sidewalk.

Coupled with the breathtaking imagery is a storyline that rivals The Matrix in easily simplified inventiveness - what if we had the technology to look at each other's dreams? What if we could actually go into them? And what if using said technology frequently could send one into something like an allergic reaction, the body, instead of recreating the harmful physical effects of a jellyfish sting actually sent one into the dream state? Now, what if the lines blurred in all of these scenarios to create one giant, involuntary collective dream? Throw in people who want to use the technology for individual power versus those who see only its potential for doing good and you've got a great story.

But the characters are what makes Paprika appealing on that personal level, the level that draws in people who have never watched or enjoyed a Japanese, anime or animated film. They are all unique, fun to watch, endlessly interesting, incredibly distinct from one another and play together in a fantastic ensemble. There's the hilarious, obese, childlike genius who invented the dream machine; his cold, facts-only co-worker; the playful and seductive dream girl Paprika; and so on, and so on. That they are all so entertaining on their own and together turns this from a great premise and story to a great film.

I will say this, however. All the jumping back and forth from dream to reality as well as all the simultaneous subplots can be a bit confusing on first viewing. The second time you watch it, however, I doubt it would be confusing at all for most. But that confusion is one of the elements that makes it all the more dreamlike, and the fact that it explains just enough to provide a path without pointing at how clever it is or over-explaining things makes it all the more appealing to the intelligent audience.