The meal isn't over till there's a satiated big beautiful woman laying on the table enjoying a cigarette like Bette Davis and Paul Henreid in "Now, Voyager." But life goes on, and someone has to pay the bill.

This movie is about how you pay that bill. Primo would pay it with money earned by his sweat and formidable talent; honestly. Secundo would not order what he could not afford, but he would ask the waiter about the lobster and the caviar to savor the idea of the best meal; realistically. Competitor Pasqualle would continue entertaining his friends till one of them became so exhausted they would pick up the bill so they can go home and sleep; he gets someone else to pay it. Big Night is about how you feed your body via the spiritual essence of living your life. The movie shows us the personification of idealism and perfection, realism and honesty, and deceit and manipulation. It shows us our own choices between what we want and what we have to do.

It is a peek of Atlas Shrugged that fits on film. Instead of the smoke, steam and clatter of industrialism, we have the smoke, steam and clatter of the kitchen--something we all recognize as the most basic way to nurture ourselves and those we love. We recognize that those we don't love must have their own kitchen, too.

The way we manage our kitchen is a reflection of what we really are. Pasqualle berates the help as he gives people what they want, even though he clearly knows that there is better to give them. Pasqualle himself tells us that to be a success, first you have to give "them" what they want, then someday you can give then what you want (to give them). He has sold out though, content with the security of meeting demand.

Primo and Secundo manage their kitchen earnestly, and want to succeed on their ability. Secundo struggles to keep the business afloat, lured by the security Pasqualle has created. He flirts with glamor, just as he carries on a physical affair with Pasqualle's wife and professes he wants marriage with his girlfriend. The affair is exciting, but his fiancee is consistent and loyal. Pasqualle's club is exciting, but the brothers want their resturaunt to be enjoyed without glitz and artiface. The real issue is that they don't have the time for the approach they want to use; just as our choices are constrained by time and resources.

Leonard Maltin said this movie is slow-paced. He's welcome to the short-order meals offered by casual dining. I prefer to dine less often at a real resturaunt where the food is hand made from scratch. Big Night is an irristable orgy of food and good times, and the moral of the story is that there is an honest compromise between good times on someone else's dime and deprivation that would mean the death of the spirit. It is about being a good failure as well as defining for yourself what success really means.

This movie is not about the overdramatized "reality" referred to as gritty; it is about reality that really exists for real people who question themselves and are honest with themselves.