The cold wind that blows through the town at the beginning of the movie is perfect symbolism; this same cold wind blows through the lives of the people in it. This movie expresses what Thomas Wolfe wrote about loneliness being central to the human existence. That has been explored and expressed beautifully in films before, such ones as Sling Blade,The Heart Is A Lonely Hunter, Member of the Wedding, Taxi Driver...Likewise for this incredible film. The acting in this movie is superb on all levels,with Cloris Leachman's Oscar-winning performance clearly the film's most incredible, amazing acting of all. The direction:perfect. The first time I saw this, I wondered why it was done in black and white; by the end of the film, I realized it could be no other way. The music (there's no score, thank God; music comes from radios and jukeboxes, playing classic country and western weepers, mostly)only adds to the poignancy. Loneliness is everywhere in the sense of everyone looking for connection desperately. This movie points out the void or voids in our own lives, where they may lie. It is not solely about loneliness, by far, that is just the underlying theme; in fact, this movie has some scenes of such sensuality (many scenes, actually)with a passion rarely seen in movies; of course,desperation increases the need, the want, the desire, the release. It's no wonder many in this are consumed by desire and lust. Take Jacy, played by the beautiful young Cybill Shepherd; it's easy to see how she could wield such power over young men, with her looks; but as P.F. Sloan once wrote, "a pretty face can hide an evil mind", and that is the case, for she is the most scheming, self-centered, duplicitous character you will ever see...
The charcters in this are complex, as they should be, and due to the fact that nothing in this movie seems contrived, forced, or fake,it leaves you with a feeling that you rarely see in a movie; that it relates to real life as much as possible as a movie can; few movies are this way.
While there are some characters we don't know much about,there is the feeling, the loneliness that pervades, that even when little is given about a character, something is clearly amiss, such as poor Miss Mosey; we know little about her, but the few things she does say, and her expressions, tell us all we need to know. The main characters(played by a terrific, then-unknown ensemble of talented actors), are all well-fleshed-out, three-dimensional ones with well-defined motivations,with interesting stories (to put it mildly!); yet they live in a ghost town. And it's fascinating. This movie is a must-see for any and all fans of dramas. Just stupendous, this movie is one for the ages.