D.O.A. is quintessential 1950's film noir (though it was shot in 1949) and in my opinion the best of the genre. Everything about this film is done right, from it's casting, to acting, to cinematography to musical score to directing.... It is wonderful. 
Edmund O'Brien plays Frank Bigelow a CPA who has been given a lethal dose of a poison and doesn't have long to live (a few days, a week tops). He doesn't know who slipped him this deadly mickey or why, but he's determined to find out. At the beginning of the film Frank walks into the LAPD to announce that he wants to report a murder. When the police captain ask who has been murdered Bigelow replies "I was" and then his story unfolds in flashback. When Bigelow begins his tale a couple of reporters and police detectives enter the room. By the end of the picture the room is filled to capacity with reporters and detectives completely enthralled in his story and hanging on to every word. By the time Frank ends his tale the slow acting poison takes deadly effect and he stands and croaks out his final gasp (his girlfriends name) and collapses to the floor. The men in the room, whose faces are filled with concern and admiration, all jump to their feet and rush to him only to announce that he is dead. You can't help but admire the guy, here's a guy who was intentionally poisoned and only had a few days to live and instead of wallowing in self pity and despair he went out and found his killer and got revenge (and saved another man's life along the way). 
Characteristics of film noir, 1.) Everybody's got an angle even the minor characters. And do they all in D.O.A., everybody's got an angle even those not involved in Frank Bigelow's dilemma. That's what I love about film noir, no one is on the up and up. The 2nd characteristic of film noir; hoods, lots of hoods and this film is filled with them. What's so wonderful about this film is that even though Frank Bigelow is a respected CPA he looks, acts and talks like a hood. Frank wears the dark squared shouldered 50's suit like the best of hoodlums; he handles a gun and his fist like a hood. The ruggedly handsome Frank is a babe magnet and even though he is suppose to be in a committed relationship he can't keep his eyes and hands off other women...this CPA is a wolf in hood clothing and you can't help but like him. 
Casting Edmond O'Brien as Frank Bigelow was a brilliant idea, he is the quintessential 50's film noir man, handsome, rugged, dark and tough. The only other person who could possibly have pulled off the role of Frank Bigelow is Raymond Burr (Perry Mason) as he has the same physical characteristics. In a word O'Brien is dramatic, when he is told by two doctors that he has been poisoned and will die in a few days (1 week tops), he springs to his feet, calls the doctor crazy and incompetent and runs from the office. With despair and disbelief written on his face Frank Bigelow runs, and runs and runs as if trying to run from the inevitable. Finally the realization sets in and he stops running and the look of despair is replaced by another look....determination and Frank has now accepted his fate and is now on a mission, a mission to find his killer before he dies.
From the opening credits you are involved in this film. Dimitri Tiomkin's brilliant score pulls you in with every thunderously dramatic musical step that Frank Bigelow takes to the police Captains office. You remain engaged with this picture from opening credits to final credits, enthralled you find yourself hoping that maybe some miracle will occur and Frank won't die and then you realize that Frank Bigelow has accepted his fate and you are the one in denial. In D.O.A. director Rudolph Mate delivers first rate film noir full of action mystery and suspense. Every scene is memorable and the cast is excellent as the director pushes them to deliver deadpan high drama performances. You'll love when the doc who told Bigelow that he'd been poisoned states in an ultra dramatic way, "You don't fully understand, you've been murdered." (Insert Dimitri Tiomkin's dramatic music here). Or the police Captain when asked how to fill out the report on Bigelow turns toward the camera with his stone face and replies "file it as dead on arrival" and there you have the movies title, D.O.A., excellent film.