I'm a big fan of martial arts action films, specifically the ones with the no CGI, no wire work approach seen in some of the Japanese films starring Tony Jaa.  I first laid eyes on him in Hard Gun(which was pathetic to say the least but it was nice to see the leading name as the bad guy) but then really became enthused with his work in the protector and Ong Bak.  That being said I also have a thing for the femme fatal genre, finding it refreshing to see a female show she can do anything a man can do and sometimes better.  In my mind I felt it would be awesome to mix the two.  The Tony Jaa incarnation with half the brawn and just as much skill...enter Jija Yanin.
I first saw Yanin in Raging Phoenix and felt that amidst the fighting, she also possessed a certain acting ability.  Shes is a girl who doesn't seem to mind to take the make up off, put the hair down, and show the more primitive side of action flicks.  In Chocolate she does just that, spending the whole movie with her hair in disarray, and walking around in your grandmas favorite flower print dresses and balloon pants.
Chocolate is about a mob woman who gives birth to an autistic girl(yanin) who, through watching martial arts movies and watching the people next door learn martial arts, teaches herself to fight.  When her mom turns ill, her and her cousin(I think, it doesn't really say who he is to her.  one reason why I only give the movie four stars)begin to try to make money for the medication need by showing off the autistic girls amazing reflexes(something she seems to be able to do before she teaches herself to fight.)  When the cousin finds a black book that has the names and amounts of money of all the people that owe the mob woman money, he and the autistic girl try to get the money back in hopes of using it to pay for the medication, which ends up inadvertently forcing the girl to fight.
The movie was entertaining.  The martial arts sequences, while sometimes you notice how far the moves actually come from landing, were still intricate and full of incredible moves.  Jija Yanin was really able to pull off the autistic girl character well, showing her acting talents strongly, but she seems to wake up when its time to fight.  In Raging phoenix she was the same way, which shows me shes more than just a pretty face in a martial arts flick.  She really does have some fighting skill, making all the fight sequences feel more realistic.
Chocolate is definitely worth the watch of any martial arts action junkie but may still be able to intrigue even the most critical of viewers.  It suffers mainly from a few bad camera angles, and a lack of explanation in some parts of a fairly strong storyline.  The storyline, of course, still takes a back seat to the fighting just like most movies  in this genre, but still takes a few feet forward.  Just enough to give the movie depth and realism.  The picture was a little grainy, showing a lower budget, but the sound was good.  If you can watch a movie and read(something I'm not real talented at) you may want to turn it on in Thai(Dolby Digital 5.1 if you can but there's also a 2.0 recording also)and kick on the English subtitles because some of the dubbing could really have been done better.
Either way the movie is worth the watch of any martial arts fan and a few others, and is recommended above many other movies of the genre.