The starkness and instability in this film are amazing. The tone is sad, somber, and broaches every deep side of ourselves. There's not a single ounce of happiness or light-hearted fun. Faces filled with sadness glance out of windows, their eyes exploring for at least a sign of peace within themselves. Their questions still are not answered at the end of the film, unlike most films. The emotions you recieve are unbelieveable.  On a more basic ground, this film is about a family broken up by the father, who decides to seperate his wife, who has spent time in mental hospitals and still is emotionally fragile. The plot expands from there, with the characters silently struggling to deal with the unexpected absence in the family. It becomes worse when the father decides to marry another woman, a woman who is free-spirited and acts in total contrast with Eve, the mentally-ill mother. Eve becomes delusional and suicidal from there. The three sisters tries to cope in their own ways, but there is always an antagonism surfacing, even though they won't say it out loud.  This film hit me deeply and left me in tears. I love movies with morals, and this one is a perfect example.  For me, the moral was that you cannot have everything answered in your life, much as you want them to be. But it's not the solitary reason why I loved it so much.  It's very unlike Woody Allen's style, whose films are always filled with satire and neurotism, as well as a fun-packed wallop of laughs. I loved this movie because it really showed the characters' dark sides, their inward battles, their frustration of not being able to express to one another, and their inability to make themselves happy, among much more. There is no trace of happiness. The characters rarely smile, but when they do, it's doled out forcefully. Their pain is heartbreakingly evident.  The title, "Interiors" is a perfect title. It matches the mother and daughters. Eve, beyond her power to change things, tries to cope by buying expensive things and rearranging them all around the house so they can look pretty, clean, and available for everyone to look at, in exact opposition to her struggles inward. But the vases and frames she buys are void of color; they are white, like everything else in the house. Not a single thing is out of place, no curtains grace the windows, and everything looks shiny, smooth, and tight. It does not have the mark of a family, but the mark of a person who is about to go over the edge. 
 The daughters are detached from their mother, and from each other. They greet each other with polite hellos and wan smiles. Renata and Joey, the two most developed characters, compete against each other, and they differ in support for Eve-Joey tries to steer her back to the realization that there's no possible chance for a reconciliation, and Renata is the type to shove things under the carpet and try to smooth out the bumps.  The questions we ask will linger to which there's no answer. Everything is as it should be-unanswered. You can feel the tension pressing down on you in the air, your breath shorten and staggen, and marvel at the enormity of this movie. There is no room for a morsel of cheerfulness, but forced smiles and downcast eyes in which silent battles rage behind their placid facades.  I've never been able to forget the very last scene when the three sisters glance out of a window simultaneously and Joey says, "The water's so calm." and Renata says, "Yes. It's very peaceful." Words that may seem simple and common, but it's the very antithesis-their struggles with themselves hasn't died. Everything is left suspended in the air, with no coherent and rational answer. Plus, the way Hurt and Keaton said it, with their eyes continually searching..was I the only one who was sobbing my eyes out? I noticed every last detail to this scene and their immense sadness. I could go on all night blabbing about this beautiful film, but I don't think there are any words available for description. I've tried my best. As one of the few seventeen-year-old girls on this planet that likes Woody Allen, this is yet another masterful to add to my collection. I highly acclaim Allen for his rare work and Mary Beth Hurt, Geraldine Page, Maureen Stapleton, and Diane Keaton for their unique and unforgettable portrayals. I highly, HIGHLY recommend this movie to literal audiences who loves movies that come with emotional catharses and deep, conscious self-analysis. "Interiors" is a movie destined to be remembered well into the next century. Do not miss it.