Richard Gere and Julia Roberts star in the 1990 instant classic Pretty Woman. Nominated for a Academy Award for Best Actress, Roberts shows off her winning smile and wonderful wit as Vivian, a down on her luck prostitute and Richard Gere plays multi-millionaire Edward Lewis, who is a hard nosed real estate tycoon that puts the screws to other people by ripping their businesses out from under their noses.

 The story begins as Vivian leaves her apartment avoiding her landlord looking for rent money and Edward is finishing his talk with his lawyer about the upcoming meeting with the head of one of the businesses they are trying to take over.  Neither of them realized that the lives that they were escaping from would never be the same the next morning.

 They meet as Edward stops at Vivian's street corner. He is having trouble driving his lawyer's sports car. As Vivian is pushed towards the car, Edward realizes that he is also lost and needs to find his hotel. Vivian starts this modern day tale of Cinderella by asking him if wants some company.  Edward brings her into his carriage and asks if she would like to drive. Seems that she likes sports cars and knows a little bit more about the car than what he does. He tells her that he never drives because he is chauffeured around in limousines. She tells him of her tales from home and the boys she learned about cars from. The movie progresses as Edward hires Vivian to be his companion for the week as he visits Los Angeles.

 Edward sends her out to buy more conservative clothing more befitting a woman of her beauty and charm for the rest of the week that they would be together.  The rest of the movie details how they spent that week as Vivian is introduced into the world of big money. I can't explain the rest of the story without ruining the movie but I can tell you that its' genuine appeal as a classic is due to the acting performances of Julia Roberts and Richard Gere. Julia Roberts' performance for 119 minutes as Vivian is something that most women can relate to in this modern day fairy tale.  I give pretty woman 5 stars for its story and its' ability to make my wife cry.