Having heard such a buzz about 'The Interpreter' I couldn't wait for the movie to be out on DVD and got it reserved at the local video store on the day of the release.

Unfortunately, my intense curiosity and interest waned very quickly. Having heard nothing but great things about the film, I expected to be thrilled. Instead, this fatally flawed movie simply dragged on - aimless, blind, and totally handicapped by a ridiculous, and sometimes desultory script, leading to an almost embarrassing denouement.

Catherine Keener is completely wasted [talent not alcohol, ha ha], and I'd use the same terms for Kidman and Penn as well. Notwithstanding her family's horrible fate at the hands of Zuwanie, it was pretty difficult to sympathize/empathize with her character. In 'Dogville' you'd have rooted for her despite her cruel decision at the end, but here, despite the constant victimization, your heart feels exactly 0 lbs heavier. To make things worse, there is zero chemistry between the leads - although I do feel they could have explored Penn and Keener a bit more; and simply no glue left to hold the script together once the final act began.

You could almost feel yourself begging the writer not to swamp things even more toward the ending - luckily the alternative ending was a disaster while the original one just about managed to hold on to the last shred/thread of believability.

I can understand that some people are enamored of the film and the acting - after all, there are OSCAR winners on board - but I fail to see how overall I'd give this dud anything more than 2 stars. In fact, the presence of OSCAR winners raises expectations to a very high level.

The plot holes are big enough for an 18-wheeler to make a u-turn through, and some unbelievable scenes [Kidman's brother saying "It's OK" right before dying after getting shot - laughable; and the bus scene is ludicrous for its depiction of otherwise highly intelligent Secret Service operatives] only served to lower the credibility and likeability of the script further.

In summary, while Kidman and Penn have performed admirably, it's really difficult to say a great many good things about the movie itself.

On the plus side, the music was excellent and totally non-intrusive [Take that, Jerry Goldsmith!] and the cinematography was splendid, capturing the essence of the locations.

On the minus side, the script was terrible, detached; the pace pathetic, and the twists most unbelievable.

See if only if you have nothing better to do...and yes, no flames from fans, please :-)

Sesh