When i first rented this movie back when i was a kid, i had two interesting reactions: first, i thought i was gonna cream my pants, and second, i laughed my [...] off. Today, i just can`t find those feelings together anymore in any of the so called horror movies, even in great productions like "Shaun of the dead".

You see, mel brooks "young frankenstein" can be the finest example available of an horror comedy, but it`s more comic than horrific, more laughs than chills. The return of the living dead is a comedy, screw-up situations that run out of control, crazy punk characters (the whole film surrounds the "punk" looks, attitude and music), responsible adults gone berzerk facing the menacing screaming zombie hordes. But the horror prevails, claustrophobic and desperate situations occured since the beginning to the explosive climax. Not to mention the very effective special effects, quite simple but very gory, my god, shocking at it`s time till today.

We can compare this zombie film based on Romero`s early work, but it won`t get us further: Here we can`t really talk about zombies, but ANIMATED CORPSES, far more gruesome,brain eating (not living flesh), out of the grave,talky, crazy, and even intelligent, more people-like. This difference is fundamental: Romero`s apocalypse,the unexplained zombie rise on earth, more like a global plague of slow motioned people, despair and hopeless survivors. Here zombies are more like a gang of monsters running wild for brains, without the global warning and putting aside the mith of "night of the living dead" or "dawn of the dead". A more simple story that keeps us focus on fun instead of understanding the essence of the zombie plague, the end of the world don`t concern us here, so we can relax. That`s another score of the film: we can enjoy and feel, not think, and that`s what a proper Comedy is all about. But don`t be wrong, nonsense comedies are not usually that effective than this one.

Well, everybody knows the sequels were, at least, bad. So you better focus on this one, a true Horror Comedy classic. Don`t miss it. Highly recomended for Horror fans who have the taste for entertaining movies.
The DVD edition could be better, but enough for us fans, so enjoy this chilling classic.