For several years, without fail, my wife and I would watch "Die Hard" along with "It's a Wonderful Life," "A Christmas Story," and "National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation," our list of can't-miss Christmas movies.  "Die Hard" we'd view at other times, but we haven't been able to watch it for a couple of years, because of our two young children who get up late and go to bed late.  We do miss it.  One sign of a great film is that you can watch it over and over again and enjoy it just as much each time; precious few action films are that good.  This one is, which is why it began a new action formula. 
I saw "Die Hard" with a friend the summer of '88, and when I went back to college that fall, I convinced my wife (then girlfriend) to go see it with me while it was still in the theater.  She didn't think she'd like it, as she hadn't yet seen a modern action film that she really liked, but she loved this one for its humanity as well as the fun quotient.  
Willis' character John McClane is not the virtually superhuman, ex-special forces hero who simply cannot die or fail, so typical in action movies of the time; he is very real and human, like Michael Biehn's Reese in "The Terminator."  Though it's predictable enough for you to know that McClane will foil the bad guys, at times you don't know whether he will ultimately survive his ordeal, and the viewer really cares about that.  
Unlike most action movies of the time, there are only two suspend-your-disbelief moments:  the big one is McClane's fall inside the large, vertical air shaft where he miraculously catches a small opening a couple floors down; the runner up is the fire-hose-as-a-harness jump off the blown-up roof, improbable because of how poorly he ties it to himself, as well as the fact that the hose reel likely would have been blown off the building in the explosion.  Apart from these, everything that he does could be accomplished by an intelligent, experienced cop. Action films are so much better when they are well grounded in reality, and don't depend on unbelievable luck or superhuman feats.
This film is also realistic about the capabilities of the weapons and explosives used.  So many films are not, especially with regard to guns and the power of different kinds of ammunition.  I remember laughing hysterically at a scene in Steven Seagal's "Hard to Kill," where his and Kelly LeBrock's characters are making a getaway from several bad guys armed with full-auto AR-15 assault rifles.  Her little Jeep has a light fiberglass hard top, and as the vehicle's top, sides, and windshield are riddled with dozens of bullet holes from around and overhead, our heroes are neither hit nor killed, which would have easily happened even if the bad guys only had 9mm weapons to penetrate the vehicle.  They want you to believe that the bullets were barely able to make the holes and fell into the vehicle as harmless lumps of brass and lead, but the extremely powerful bullets of the AR-15 could only be stopped by the engine block and a few parts of the suspension and frame, otherwise they would sail through and through the Jeep and still be able to kill someone hiding behind it.  Its 53-grain .223 bullet (used by the DC-area snipers) has a muzzle velocity of about 3,300 feet per second (2,250 mph or 3,620 kph), compared to about 1,400 fps (955 mph or 1,536 kph) for the huge and legendary 200-grain .44 magnum, and 1,200 fps (818 mph or 1,317 kph) for the workhorse 115-grain 9mm. 
Most people have no clue how powerful even the lower-powered ammunition is.  Many films might show a heavy, wooden conference table like the one in this film stopping the "low-power" 9mm rounds, but when McClane successfully shoots Marco through the table with his Beretta pistol ("Thanks for the advice!"), we see an accurate display of why the 9mm is the favorite round of law enforcement everywhere.  The bad guys' Uzi machine guns are 9mm also, as is Hans' stylish little pistol (I do believe); only Karl has a high-powered weapon in reserve.  Such a well-organized group of bad guys would want their weapons to use the same ammo, as depicted, so they could share easily, or use a fallen man's ammo if necessary.  John McClane certainly makes it necessary, doesn't he...!
Anyway, characters in these films need not be one-dimensional and narrowly focused to move the action along.  You can have character development, even with bad guys, and have great one-liners too.  You can have a macho good guy who suffers from human frailty.  For an action film, this one has it all:  great casting and good acting; good plot and writing; good sound, effects, and great stunts; good directing and editing.  "Die Hard" is excellent entertainment and the perfect action movie, very deserving of this special edition DVD! 
If you don't have it, buy it today!