Okay so I've been putting off buying this movie for a LONG LONG time... it'll be replacing a well worn (and rightfully so) VHS...

I thoroughly love the online reviewing world and trust their judgement on many many many things that I choose to purchase or not... given this I became utterly infuriated at the poor reviews representing this particular copy of BFC as they represented everything that is WRONG with the online reviewing community...

So here I go... for better or worse (and in this case... better and better)

The breakdown...

FIRST OFF! I'll note i purchased this at wal-mart because its actually cheaper!!??!?!?!? than amazon... i picked it up for $11.99 which is a legit steal for everything provided...

Packaging: Nothing special... standard blu-ray affair with a cardboard cover overlay... I will note that the permanent plastic under the overlay that protects the cover-insert is horridly warped with a ripple effect... may bother hardcore people but... there really should be a higher end version of this movie for those people anyway...

Contents: Good stuff here... this is in fact TWO discs... not like some of the old-school HD DVD/DVD Combos... there is a full fledged DVD movie and a full fledged Blu-ray Disc... PERFECT!!!! it may just be an annoyance to me but I hate double sided discs for many many reasons...

DA BLU-RAY (AKA Why you're here!!!) :

Quality to me is impeccable... I think some people forget how old these classics are... we're talking about resurrecting film that is ages old and expecting it to be Avatar (or whatever) quality... I am actually STUNNED by how good this blu-ray transfer looks... it really is GOOD... I'm watching it right now on a 55" DLP 1080p with my PS3 and 7.1 - and no I'm not bragging or anything, just stating for peoples own reference - and in my opinion its pretty excellent... ZERO complaints here... the video looks great... the audio is in line and on par... this isn't Sound of Music or Fiddler... so audio-wise it can be hard to say one way or another as long as the lines sync up with the lips... and they do...

DVD : who cares... it'll be dvd quality, which is GREAT, dont get me wrong... it's just icing on the cake imo

Digital Content : not rated... sorry I just dont use digital movies that much... yet... but I will definitely utilize it once it's a bit more viable and necessary...

The Movie : Uhm... go away

CONCLUSION : WORTH THE MONEY... still completely stunned that wal-mart beat out amazon on the price... a bit angered I paid taxes on it... but 11.99 + tax is cheaper than the current amazon price...

Anyway... ENJOY!