(Slight Spoilers Ahead)  This movie may be retro for sure, but let's also remember in 1974 a little unknown Movie called the Exorcist was born and that was 5 years earlier. When you watch Amityville Horror, it's like a punsihment to your brain and you deserve so much better to kill some time. This movie is supposed to be scary right? Well, if this is scary then Looney Tunes are too. Amityville Horror is simply not scary at all, even worse, it's just bad from start to finish. Running two long hours in length, the film is too long and doesn't even have a satisfying ending. It kind of leaves you hanging. Some people as I see by the review board, really seem to enjoy this garbage, but I think they're just drawn to it's reputation. But believe me, it's not scary and it's not a good movie by an sense of the word. If it came out today, the movie would be PG 13. There's really no redeeming qualities in this trash. No gore or anything really disturbing to make you cringe, heck, nobody even dies. The movie focuses on an idiotic family that moved into the cursed house and the entity basically just causes little problems for the family. Amazingly, the movie is based on a true story, but I'm sorry, people cannot be this dumb.

The Amityville Horror is a story about a cursed house that makes a husband grumpy and causes fights between him and his wife. Oh, he also scolds his kids more with the evil demons by his side. Well, that's the movie in a nutshell. The so-so acting is only 1/2 of the problem. It's very slow paced, make sure you have coffee by your side to keep you awake.  The shortlived visit from the priest was about the best part of the movie, those flies were a bit disturbing to see crawling in his mouth. The demon or entitys in the house don't really make any grand appearances during the whole film, they just annoy the family and they leave when the movie is over. Perhaps the real story of the house is scary, but the way this movie is portrayed says other wise, the actors look bored.

There are so many other better movies of this genre, the Exorcist, The Ring, Blair Witch, Prom Night, Halloween, Friday the 13th,  and other trippy thrillers that are worth your hard earned dough. If you want retro and crave Amityville, take a look at the Amityville Horror II: The Possession. While not based on the actual true story, it's clearly the best Amityville movie of the series, give that a whack before subjecting yourself to this vile movie.

I do have to say, the movie has been cleaned up a lot and looks a lot better than the cruddy VHS versions, but the looks, better sound and good picture can't make this a good movie. There is a reason this movie was never released on DVD.