I had read somewhere that "The Cranes are Flying" was a rather over-rated Russian movie.  It had won the Cannes Palme d'Or or whatever they call their top award.  I have noticed that a number of the past such awards were for movies that I thought were over-rated (although, in fairness, many of the award winners were outstanding movies).  Thus I was prepared to be sceptical.  However, I was impressed when I saw it last night.  It is a very good (not quite "great") movie in my estimation.

It begins with scenes of two young lovers.  Their relationship seems destined yet not determined.  We are quickly introduced to the extended families and, before we know it, war breaks out.  I must admit that I wasn't sure just what war this 1960 movie was referring to.  Some of the architecture that we get glimpses of seems post-WWII.  While I don't think that there was ever any specific mention of the enemy, there were too many terms that made it clear this this was WWII ("fascists', "Stalingrad", "Leningrad under siege", etc).  Our young man, Boris, feels compelled to enlist, much to the dismay of his fiance.  His decision is quick and unquestioned.  One of the best series of scenes in the movie has to do with the lovers parting at the crowded train station.

Home life during the war becomes increasingly difficult and there arises a serious problem for the young lady.  At the Front, there is a chillingly beautiful scene in which a soldier is shot.  As he falls, we see, through his eyes, the tree tops spinning while his fondest dreams are brought to view amid those spinning trees.  The home front becomes even more challenging for our heroine.  In time she has to face up to choices that were forced upon her; choices that stain the dreams and asperations of her life with her beloved Boris.  We rediscover a code of ethics for the homefront in a series of impressive scenes.  At the end there is an outstanding scene depicting loneliness in a crowd; misery amidst celebration.  We are left with the realization that wars create victims in ways we don't always appreciate.  At the same time, the cranes remind us that life goes on.

I was tempted to put 5 "stars" on "The Cranes are Flying" but I started thinking of the many movies that have had a greater impact on me than this one.  Nonetheless, there are several scenes from "The Cranes are Flying" that will stay with me a long time.