"Zulu" (1964) is a very good war movie that grows up to an epic chronicle.

The story is based on real facts occurred in South Africa in January 1879 and follows them with some alterations (as usual).

After a few introductory scenes, the film goes directly into an action packed narration.

The situation is as follows at Rorke's Drift stands a Christian mission. There are two small British detachments in place, totalizing around a hundred men, one for garrisoning the mission and the other one for building a bridge across the river.

Suddenly they receive notice that the main British force in the territory has been massacred early that day. Moreover Zulu's army four thousands warriors strong are marching against them.

Two very different young Lieutenants and their experienced Sergeants start urgent preparations to resist. A collection of picturesque Welsh soldiers are the backbone of the stronghold defenders.

The Pastor of the Mission incites troops to flee. He is successful with the auxiliary forces. A cavalry platoon passes by and refuse to reinforce them.

So the detachment is alone, isolated and without hope of reinforcement.

Zulu army starts attacking and reveal themselves as an organized, disciplined and courageous force.

The battle rages with increasing sanguinary violence and a prodigy of braveness is displayed by both confronting warriors.

There are some anecdotic but relevant facts around the movie to be noted.

It was filmed relatively near to where the original battle takes place; the South African scenery is beautifully photographed.

Some of the first scenes show a Zulu's mass marriage ceremony, comprehending dancing and singing by hundreds of members of that ethnic group. The ancestral choreography is just a joy to see!

The opposing choirs (Zulu vs. Welsh) deliver one of the finest pre-battle scenes I ever watched!

The epoch reconstruction, military and diction are very accurate.

Finally play acting is great. Stanley Baker as Engineer Lt. Chard gives deepness to his character and is able to show the internal conflicts that traverse Chard's soul.

Michael Caine in his first important role makes a perfect composition of the spoiled and aristocratic of military ascent Lt. Bromhead. It is said he took his pains to perfect his accent in a military garrison.

Jack Hawkins IMHO is not at his best in this film. Nigel Green as veteran Colour Sgt. Bourne is impeccable.

This is one of the best war movies depicting colonial wars I ever seen. I strongly recommend it.

Reviewed by Max Yofre.