I do not understand all the criticism this movie is getting.  Perhaps it is because I have never seen the often mentioned "Single White Female" and therefore haven't seen how heavily this movie is plagiarized, but in any event that type of thing is common in Hollywood.  Also I prefer more "conservative" movies so if SWF was R and this was PG-13, I would inevitably prefer "The Roommate."  I have some experience with both mental illness and social isolation and could therefore relate to this movie, although it was certainly not perfect.
 I recognized Minka Kelly from the TV show "Parenthood" but I did not recognize any of the other cast members.  I'm only 28 but I guess I am not that hip apparently.  The Tracy character reminded me of Paris Hilton.  Was that intentional?
 It appears that Sara is about to start college and has a very troubled roommate with a very serious case of bi-polar disorder (Rebecca).  Rebecca also appears to be struggling with lesbianism which is possibly in conflict with her religious beliefs.  Rebecca is glad to have a roommate as maybe now she can finally have a friend.  She clearly hasn't had very many.  There seem to be some very genuine BFF like moments.  The point where Sara looks at Rebecca's Facebook page and announces that she is Rebecca's best friend is very touching.
 However it was not meant to be.  Although Sara initially is very friendly toward Rebecca, as her mental condition becomes more and more obvious, Sara eventually wants to break off all communication with Rebecca.  This leads to the climactic scene where Rebecca is killed in self-defense.
 I found the movie to be thoroughly interesting from beginning to end.  The soundtrack worked well for the movie.  The haunting scenes had very good music.  I had to look away when Rebecca was cutting herself and when she killed Cuddles.  Ironically her murder of Jason was easier to take.  I guess that's the liberal media for you LOL.
 The film certainly has holes, such as why Tracy didn't call the police, how the police dealt with Rebecca's death, and was Rebecca a lesbian struggling with her sexual orientation? She did want to date one of her high school classmates, the one "she was never friends with", didn't she? Also I was a bit confused about the scene where Rebecca catches Sara's design professor.  How did Rebecca know how to trap him so easily?  Why did he think the tape would get him?  Well it got him somehow.
 I also don't understand Rebecca and Irene's relationship.  They made out in a lesbian bar restroom and then went to Irene's apartment.  Is that when Irene was tied up or did they have sex that night?  If the kiss was insincere, wouldn't Irene have been able to snuff it out?  Rebecca does not show any interest in a heterosexual romantic relationship in the film. Was Rebecca trying to make out with Sara in the fight scene?  It seemed like she was.
 Despite confusing moments, this was a very interesting and compelling film.