I recommend this film because it is good for kids and adults and because it is an easy movie to follow. However, I wouldn't recommend buying it, I would only rent it.

 I really did connect with little Sam because his dad only started coaching for fun and then become obsessive over winning. I have had an experience like this one when my dad wanted to coach my basketball team. Of course I wanted him to because he is my dad, but he and I both became obsessive over winning and forgot how much fun we can have, similar to the movie.

 This movie is a good choice for kids and adults. It is almost as if kids can look up to the kids in the movie and say I want to be as good as they are. It also shows them that it is not impossible to learn new skills because in the championship game the weaker players had learned new skills and they all came together to win the championship. As for adults, it is a good learning tool. They always think they don't do stuff like that, but come to find out they do. It can seem as if the examples of how the coach acts are a little outrageous, but it dose and can happen. I think it can help the adults see what not to do in these types of situations. With a little humor the movie is fun for everyone.

 This movie is also easy to follow. I know for most movies now a day, you can't turn your head for one minute without having to rewind and watch it again. That won't happen with this movie. That plot is simple, little Sam get traded from his grandfathers team because he didn't get to play and wasn't as skilled as the others, then his dad decides to coach Sam's new team and it just becomes a competition between grandfather and dad. Sam gets hurt in a series of ways. First, Sam thinks his dad took him off his grandfather's team because he wasn't as good as everyone else. Second, he gets put on a new team who has never won a game before. Third, his dad gets so obsessed with winning that he doesn't play Sam because he isn't as good as the other players.

On the other hand, I wouldn't personally go out and buy this movie. This movie would be good for family night. I did myself watch the movie twice and although it was still funny it got kind of boring because I knew the plot.