John Dahl's directing career started with Kill Me Again, a compact little film noir thriller about stolen money, double crosses, and people not worried about "traditional" morality or the ethical considerations in killing people.  In You Kill Me, Dahl takes these same ideas and archetypes and moves them into the realm of comedy.  Or rather, Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely do - they wrote the screenplay as a spec, long before Dahl was ever involved.  But it SEEMS like a Dahl story, and his direction of it is pitch-perfect.  Sir Ben Kingsley plays a Polish hit man from Buffalo, with a drinking problem so severe that - after he's missed one to many jobs - his family sends him to San Francisco to dry out.  He reluctantly joins AA, finds a sponsor (Luke Wilson), gets a family-sponsored day job in a funeral home, and meets one more in a long line of essentially sociopathic Dahl heroines (Tea' Leone).  Tea' doesn't kill or rob, but she's okay with the fact that Kingsley's Frank is a professional killer - just so long as he doesn't decide to turn gay on her (apparently a problem she'd had once before, in her hometown of San Francisco).  The story follows Frank's progress to a Good Sobriety, with the usual trials and slip-ups along the way, as he struggles to find himself.  Not so he can reform his life of crime, but so that he can get back to killing people full-time, and do a better job of it.  The film is brilliantly funny, with sharp and witty dialogue throughout, and the performances are spot-on.  Others have noted that while Dennis Farina's mob boss is well-portrayed, the fact that he's supposed to be an IRISH mob boss is patently silly; he's about as Irish as pasta fazool.  But that's a quibble; this is a delightful film in the 'funny hitman' sub-genre, right along side Grosse Pointe Blank and In Bruges - which is where the DVD sits, on the shelf in my book case.  Lots of great extras on the disc, including a director's commentary track that includes the screenwriters (it's ABOUT TIME!) and some great behind-the-scenes material.  If you like Dahl's other films, or you like funny hitman movies, this is a must-see.