this is actually a very good thriller. the whole scenario is pretty logic. forget about those reviews trying to compare with the old one. different time frame and background. why you have to compare all the time? as long as you could enjoy the show. i enjoyed it. it's at least a quite serious and suspensful movie. acting, directing, editing, lighting, stunt...are all pretty good. what those movie critics out there could do everytime is compare, compare and compare. hey, this is not the new version of 'the flight of the phoenix', okay? you don't have to use the old measurements to measure everything. old ones do not have to be nostalgically better than the new ones, and the new ones do not have to be compared with the old ones again and again. maybe just because i didn't watch the old one, so i could totally enjoy the new version. yeah, after over two hundred years, the civil war even become so poetically beautiful, huh? did you ever realize the civil war is the ultimate national shame? we americans killing americans, killing each other so blindly with self-righteous just cause? and now, you guys think the civil war is nostalgically beautiful and proud of it? shame on you guys! you know what? right now i actually got worried just like common people got scared and worried before the civil war. why? did you ever notice those right wing neo conservatives, the far right republican partisans, hate the so-called 'liberal democratics' so much? i think if they could get the chance, the right wing dark force might do something just like what they did in the civil war, they'll ruthlessly wipe out the democratic liberals completely off the american soil, not just the pricinct 13, man. but, well, that's another story, nothing for you critics to compare to yet. just remember one thing, folks:
BEFORE, IT'S THE SOUTH HATED THE NORTH, THE NORTH RESENTED THE SOUTH. NOW, IT'S THE RIGHT HATES THE LEFT, THE CONSERVATIVES HATE THE LIBERALS TO THE GUTS, BUT THE LEFT SIMPLY WON'T GIVE A DARN TO THOSE RIGHT WING EXTREMISTS, BECAUSE THEY'RE WHAT THEY ARE, THEY'RE THE LIBERALS.