Without any question, this is one of the classic comedies of film history. It signaled the beginning of Frank Capra's career as a marquee director. Although he had made a bevy of films before this one, from IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT on, Capra was a directing star. Unlike most of his later films, this film does not have the social or political overtones of many of those films. The performances in this film are among the finest comic roles in the history of film. Most of Clark Gable's fame rests on his many hard hitting dramas and action films, but he was amazingly as effective here in a pure comedy as in any of his other films. Cladette Colbert specialized in comedy (though she also managed some top flight dramatic roles), and managed several star turns as excellent as she was here (THE PALM BEACH STORY and MIDNIGHT), but even if she had not made the other films, we would remember her today because of this film. The film is graced with several superb turns by character actors like Roscoe Kerns (as the oily and opportunistic Oscar Shapeley), Walter Connolly, and Alan Hale. 
There are as many classic scenes in this film as any you can think of. Bugs Bunny's carrot chewing habit was supposedly borrowed by his creators from Clark Gable in the famous hitchhiking scene. The Walls of Jericho scene has been mimicked in several other films. We remember these scenes because they are funny, well-written, and superbly acted. Without any question, one of the great films. The fact that the movie won the four most important Oscars--Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Actress, and Best Director--merely confirms what any viewer can see for themselves.
Nonetheless, there are somethings that I find disturbing in the film. Part of the reason is the fact that the movie embodies some very disturbing attitudes towards women. These attitudes don't have to be teased out or discovered by a microscopic examination of key scenes. The attitudes are blatant and in-your-face. If anyone doubts me, just watch the movie again with an eye for how Claudette Colbert is treated, and imagine oneself in that position. For instance, at once point Peter Warren (Gable) tells the father of Ellie Andrews (Colbert) that what she needs is a husband who will belt her everyday, whether she deserves it or not (her father seems to agree with him). Today, the notion of any man "belting" his wife under any conditions is offensive. Throughout the movie, Cable pushes, shoves, picks up, and bosses Colbert around. He pretty much treats her as if she were a doll. By today's standards, he frequently invades her personal space. He tells her to shut up, and she shuts up. In one scene, Gable is carrying Colbert on his shoulder across a creek (itself a fairly demeaning position), when he smacks her on the butt for arguing with him. It is impossible to imagine any of Barbara Stanwyck's characters putting up this kind of treatment. Quite apart from all this, Cable's machismo is really, really hard to take in the early part of the 21st century. Unfortunately, this is a feature of most of his characters, and is, I believe, one of the reasons that his popularity has fared so badly in comparison with so many of his more important contemporaries like Bogart, Jimmy Stewart, or Cary Grant. There are just too many scenes in this film that you have to watch with blinders on. In other words, the films reflects social ideas that are part of a world that no longer exists.
The film feels dated in other ways as well. Technologically, the sound is not quite as good as we would find in films only a year or two later, often sounding boxy. Like in many of Capra's films, many of the characters, especially characters who make only brief appearances, seem cardboardish, unbelievable, and simplistic. They reflect ways of speaking and attitudes that many viewers will find difficult to understand. These characters just strike us as wrong and unconvincing, and for that reason, remote. This is not true of many other films of the thirties and forties, though it is frequently true of the films of Capra. Compare Ward Bond's bus driver with nearly any minor character in THE AWFUL TRUTH or BRINGING UP BABY or THE LADY EVE or TO BE OR NOT TO BE or THE PALM BEACH STORY, and my point is understood. I don't know if the fault is Capra (which I suspect, since he had a number of simplistic and naively optimistic characters in a number of his films--one of the factors figuring into what is known as Capra-corn) or the fact that the film is one of the older talking pictures that we actually still watch. It doesn't keep the film from being a classic of the first rank, but it does supply a disturbing undertone.