I saw this movie years ago and remembered it with affection as an unfailing pick-me-up. I've just seen it for the 2nd time on telly and wrote my review. In my enthusiasm I neglected to avoid spoilers, so for those who haven't seen this screwball masterpiece, please see the movie first and then read my review! Regardless of what you may think of me, you will not be disappointed by this movie. I dare you not to be charmed.
One of Preston Sturges four or five masterpieces, and IMHO his most masterly piece. The beautiful Geraldine (Claudette Colbert) and Tom Jeffers (Joel McCrea) are your (seemingly) normal everyday working-class married couple in financial straits; Tom  needs some cash to develop his invention, a suspension-airport-tennis-racket, but this being 1942 and venture capital more difficult to raise in those days, Geraldine helps her husband and does the next sensible thing, deciding to divorce Tom, marry someone rich, and then invest in Tom's project. She hies herself to Palm Beach, touted to her by a helpful cab driver as the second most popular divorce resort next to Reno, "but for my money Palm Beach is your best bet for this time of year, you got your beaches, you got your hotels." Tom for some reason disagrees with her plan, valuing their marriage over his fortune, and hies himself Palm Beach-ward to fend off his divorce-minded wife. But Gerry, who's left her husband without taking any money, sells herself to a band of gun-toting ale-drinking millionaires in exchange for a train passage, meets another multimillionaire by repeatedly grinding his pince-nez into his face with her foot (it's all right, he carries an inexhaustible supply of them) and becomes adopted by her smitten mutlimillionaire and his sister the Duchess or Princess Centimellia (oh, it's Princess, she divorced the Duke two husbands ago, or was it three?). This becomes complicated when Tom shows in Palm Beach and is taken up by the Princess in the guise of Gerry's brother, one Captain McGlue ("Captain of what? The Boy Scouts?" Tom shrieks. "And why is my name McGLUE?!") and the multimillionaire, who goes by the nickname Snooty, attempts to befriend him, all the while imprecating Gerry's dastardly soon-to-be-ex-husband.
The plot, as you can see, is another of Sturge's marvelously convoluted structures, and is rife throughout with much of his trademark one-liners ("It is the tragedy of this world that the men most in need of a beating are always enormous"; "Nothing is forever, dear. Except Roosevelt.") and dazzling design. What makes this concoction the creamiest of Sturge's crop are the wonderful performances; McCrea's stolidness doesn't trip him up as it did in the coda of "Sullivan's Travels," and actually gives his Tom Jeffers a warm growly dog quality I find endearing. Mary Astor perfects her chatterbox heiress performance in this film. Rude Vallee is a revelation as the persnickety Snooty, abandoning his teenybopper-crooner fame to play the role of a parsimonious googolplexaire falling disastrously in love.
And Claudette Colbert, wow. Barbara Stanwyck may be more sexy in "The Lady Eve," Veronica Lake more mysterious and stylish in "Sullivan's Travels," but Claudette Colbert.... wow.
That said, I took a star off because of the sequences of the drunken millionaire's gun club and the black railroad servicemen. I know that the film was made in 1942 and one should make allowances, but the scene where the millionaires are shooting randomly around the train, forcing the black bartender to dance around their bullets made me wince. It was funny, but too sadistic for our sensitivities 50 years later. This goes too for the extended scene where the only joke is that the (black) train attendant continously pronounces "yacht" as "yachit."
The film's abrupt happy ending was an out-of-left-field delight, and of course made me watch the beginning credit sequence again. I'm not altogether sure what happens there in the beginning, does anyone out there have any ideas?