This is not a film but is a box with a graphic mimicking film packaging so you'll buy it, and they put more thought into the cover than anything inside.

It isn't a home movie since you might put some thought and care into a home movie.

This is not a "B movie", which is a very low budget film with inexpensive actors that must use creativity and fun to win you over.

This is not a "bad movie" which is a production that tries but fails miserably and can still be fun or charming in its own bad way.

This is what happens when people who want money find CGI computers they think can compensate for no interest in story, shooting, acting or anything related to film.

You see, no one *tries* here.  The dialog isn't just sloppy, pointless or moronic, it's boring.  The plot makes no sense and things happen because they have a CGI scene of it, maybe from another of their "films" so they'll move the plot to include it.  The acting is -- well, some isn't all THAT dreadful, but it's strangely cast, not very "Victorian", oh --  and a good number of the "actors" are just stage hands or friends mumbling lines, and the story gets so absurd that they must become cartoons, pushing their shame and realization that they're ruining their careers deep down, so now we all feel bad.  Don't be under the impression it'll be fun to see a really bad movie.  Those are fun.  These films suck.  You'll know you've been had the moment they walk through the museum they've rented, babbling filler, watching shots that were cheaply cooked on a computer wondering how video stores could rent things the neighbor kid could do better.  It's not a real film.

This is made by a company called "Asylum Films".  They are known as the "let's make a knock off in two weeks for pocket change" film company that has dozens of other titles, most designed to trick consumers into thinking they're buying the REAL famous film that's out when it's this: the least amount of effort and money to turn a profit.  Look for the label, and put it back.  Asylum Films (and their Christian co-company that hawks religious films -- maybe no one cares if those don't make sense) should be shut down by Studios in that you have minimal expectations for even a really bad movie and these guys just ripped you off.  They've been doing this for a dozen years and are filthy rich.  Don't support their con.  Even a fake Prada Bag holds things before ripping apart, leather smelling like rotting horse flesh, the ink smearing.  This is a box claiming a fake bag is inside, but it's only an old paper bag, and it is infected by the plague, and I won't tell you what's inside but flies are all over it.

Asylum Films don't even try.

(Join the campaign to stop Asylum Films.  Urge your film studios to bring lawsuits against fake film companies.  Warn family and friends!)