I saw this movie both on the theater and when I purchased this DVD.  The following is why you might be interested in this DVD if you skipped the movie after reading the reviews, or saw the movie and were disappointed by it.
My perspective on all this is that CART is arguably the best racing series in the world.  I've been to the races, talked to the drivers, and know a lot about the sport on many levels.  I was excited when I heard this movie was to be made.  On the other side, I was scared that it would become another laughingstock like the racing community feels "Days of Thunder" was in terms of realistically depicting the sport.  I also knew I was going to have to accept some "Hollywood" because most people don't understand enough about what goes on in CART to appreciate it at "full realism" setting.  Thus the need to have cars knife through the competition on any patch of road that's open (the laws of physics be hanged).
The movie was very entertaining to me as a CART fan, and ignoring the cliches, the underdeveloped characters, the sometimes iffy acting, etc.  The special effects were almost always well done, and enough real footage was used to provide the thrill ride you'd want.
My wife's take was ho hum because of the fact that the characters were not developed in spite of Sly's promises that this would be about the PEOPLE in the story as much as the racing.  
The DVD confirms that Sly wasn't lying, it's just that the parts that made this a good character movie were left on the cutting room floor.  Through several scenes that were either edited down or omitted entirely, several of the characters' backgrounds were fleshed out, allowing us to empathize with them more, often see better acting.  After I was done watching the DVD and watched these omitted clips, I found myself ANGRY that a good movie was actually SHOT, it just wasn't RELEASED.  If the people behind the movie and DVD version had any brains at all after reading the reviews they got, they would have done like Terminator 2 did and folded the edited/omitted scenes back into the picture, and actually FINISHED the film, knowing the DVD audience wouldn't mind seeing a movie longer than 2 hours.  But since the theatrical release could never compete with T2 because of its flaws, I doubt we'll ever see a 'platinum release' of this DVD with that stuff back in.  But it *IS* worthwhile to see if you want to see how the people in charge of cutting the movie to size can cut out its heart, leaving the special effects to carry the movie, which rarely happens anymore unless it's a Star Wars movie.
The Visual Effects documentary on the DVD is very interesting, in that although I quickly identified some CGI work in the movie, I was amazed at how much got past me.  I swore I was looking at an actual car going around a corner from a camera behind it, and it turns out it was a CG car.  They are just getting too darned good at this stuff!
The video transfer quality was on par with other DVD's, but the sensation of being in the car is definitely hurt by the small screen.  (I have a 36" set, and of course this is letter boxed).
The audio (no dts here...another screw-up), hits the subwoofer pretty hard, enough that I checked a few times just to be sure that I had the "bass boost" turned off.  Some people may need to lower that.  I don't remember the theatrical release having that much bass, so maybe it's a bad mix (With Dolby Digital, anything is possible....).
Anyway, if they could have folded back in the missing footage as a viewing option, the actual movie would be a much better addition to the library, but for many, it will simply serve to answer unanswered character questions and demonstrate how a 4 star movie can get dropped to 1 or 2 stars on the cutting room floor.
I'll keep mine because it's still a CART movie and the Effects are still worth it (and yes, manhole covers DO really get sucked up by the underbody vacuum if not welded down).