I have been watching television since the 1960s, and in my opinion "Life" is one of the best drama series that I have ever seen. The writing, acting, direction, and music are just extremely well done. The writer-strike-caused abbreviated season left me hungering for more. Although it has nothing to do with aliens or the supernatural, "Life" reminds me in some ways of the best years of "The X-Files", for reasons I'll explain.

Like "The X-Files", the central character of "Life" is a tall, male law-enforcement investigator who has suffered a searing personal trauma (the abduction of Fox Mulder's sister, Charlie Crews' wrongful 12-year imprisonment for murders that he didn't commit). He is viewed as somewhat strange by his colleagues, an "oddball". In both series the lead character uses his law enforcement credentials not only to solve the mystery-of-the-week, but also to perform a private investigation of the shadowy conspiracy that caused his personal trauma.

In both series the the main character is aided by a petite, attractive, and extremely capable female partner ("The X-Files'" Dana Scully, "Life"'s Dani Reese). In both series the female partner was initially assigned to the main character in part to spy on him and to perhaps provide damning evidence that will allow his law enforcement agency to get rid of him, once and for all. In both series the female partner was at first annoyed and even exasperated by her partner's eccentricity and quirky beliefs (Mulder's alien conspiracy and belief in the paranormal, Crewe's Zen philosophizing and obsession with fresh fruit), but in time she comes to respect him, loyalty grows, and she refuses to cooperate with efforts to undermine him. And, in both series, the chemistry between the male and female leads is a big part of the show's appeal. "Life"'s superb writing and the talent of Damian Lewis and Sarah Shahi create that wonderful chemistry.

But let me make it clear, "Life" is a police drama, not a show about the paranormal. But like "The X-Files" it is blessed with fascinating stories, interesting characters, humor, an intriguing conspiracy sublot, and that special something that makes it stand out from the usual same-old-same-old on TV.

When "Life" was being broadcast I immediately recognized it as something special and I tried to get my wife to watch it. She said no thanks, she wanted to watch a competing show. After I bought this DVD set (as soon as it came out) I had her watch the first episode with me. She became hooked and we had a "Life" mini-marathon over the next several nights. After watching the first half of the two-part season finale I said "It's late, we can watch the final episode tomorrow night". She said no, she couldn't wait, she had to see it that night. She is now a fan and she is eagerly awaiting the series' second season premiere. I am loaning my DVD set to co-workers and I will be using Amazon.com to send this DVD set as gifts to my parents and siblings to try and and spread the word about this series. It's that good.

"Life" is one of the best series on television. Buy it, you won't regret it!