Most of you who have arrived here are either (a) Long-time Toto fans, or (b) you ended up here looking for an Italian singer, and found this instead. Okay, so maybe the three of you over there in the corner were (c) looking for toilets.

Sorry to disappoint, if you are in line (b) or (c).

Please stay tuned for the gratuitous advertisement for this superb blu-ray concert disc; I promise you a good time - if not, feel free to wander off to find your toilets.

As a long-time Toto fan myself, since the first self-titled release in 1976 (who can forget hearing "Hold the Line" burning up the AM radio airwaves?), I was very eager to watch this concert on blu-ray. With the improved video and audio technology of blu-ray, I was anticipating a video that would figuratively "put me in the seat" at this concert - and I must say, it did just that and more. From the opening footage behind the scenes with the band as they made their way towards the stage to the closing notes as the credits roll - you could close your eyes and swear that you were one amongst the thousands at Le Zenith that night, but because you don't want to miss a single note played by these musical geniuses (and I do mean that), you keep your eyes open, panning from musician to musician, mouth open in awe.

Twenty-three songs span the course of just over two hours' running time...although some in medley format rather than the full-length songs (sad, I know, but this is common to satisfy listeners of all types, I'm sure). Not once do you ever hear an off note, tone, beat, or vocal from anyone on stage; even when it seems like they're in full-on jam and off the script, you cannot EVER tell whether they are ad-libbing or playing what's been rehearsed. The one time that you might guess that Luke strayed from the program is during one of his solos, and Bobby quickly steps in to usher Luke back to his mic before the next chorus change. Nicely done without appearing obtrusive or bossy...

Every solo played (Greg, Simon, Steve, and to some extent Leland) captivates...Greg's keyboard solo especially demonstrates his extremely talented skills as he riffs from bebop to modern classcial, and back to rock - interweaving parts of Toto melodies from the past and present throughout. Greg is a superb keyboardist, and I cannot picture anyone else sitting in David Paich's place after hearing and watching him play. Simon's drum solos and drumming in general are so precise, melodic, and almost a dead-on impersonation of Jeff Porcaro's style. I still miss Jeff's particular style and flair, but Simon picks up and carries on where Jeff's spirit left off. Is there any comparison to Steve Lukather's guitar wizardry? As familiar as his signature sound may be, his mastery of the craft always causes me to sit and soak up every tender note and brusing power chord like a dry, thirsty desert. More, I say, MORE!

Bobby Kimball. Man, am I glad to see you singing with the band again. Your voice was truly missed, brother. The heart & passion that Bobby delivers in every lead he sang, every harmony, every fill or run - his voice hasn't lost a step, despite the years that have passed. I love Luke's vocals, certainly, but Bobby brings that bluesy, smoky rasp to counterbalance Luke's smoother sound.

Touring musician Tony Spinner (who also handled lead vocals on Stop Loving You) is a good fit as rhythm guitarist and backing vocals. On par with Joseph Williams, who has great pipes in his own right. Due to a hand injury, Mike Porcaro did not make the tour for this recording, and I was surprised (pleasantly!) to discover that they subbed Mikey with another great bassist that I've known about for years - Leland Sklar (he played bass on a couple of Barry McGuire records back in the 80s, when I was getting into the Christian music scene). According to what Luke says in the concert, Lee only learned the entire set 5 days prior to joining them on tour. I don't know what kind of practice regimen he has, but Lee played like he'd been with the band for several years. Of course, being the long-time professional he is, I'm sure that's nothing new for him.

Cinematography - while Toto didn't resort to stage gimmicks (fireworks, dancers, trapeze/harness, drum cage, etc.) like a lot of other bands do to entertain their fans, there certainly is no need for them to do so either. The music and the artists themselves are the centerpieces of the show; anything else would be a distraction. This is likely why Toto is huge overseas, but not as big on home turf. Polling the crowd, Luke asked how many of the audience were also musicians - as the camera panned the crowd, almost every hand was raised. A fanbase made up primarily of musicians goes to see the artists perform, not play at performing. Oh to sit in on a jam session with these masters...Heaven!

Audio - oooh the chills. Set the disc to play back in 5.1 Dolby (usually just use Dolby Stereo) last night...pure auditory delight.

Grab one of these while you still can.