"Wyatt Earp" tries, in only three hours, to portray fully the broad sweep of the life of a complicated man living in tumultuous times.  In large part it succeeds.  Costner's Earp is well thought out, and beautifully acted. Costner takes us from the young, warm, wide-eyed western newcomer, filled with ambition, who, as personal trials and tragedy follow him, grows ever harder and colder, until he is a match for the hard and cold world in which he lives.  Then he meets Josie, who begins to thaw him out just as he must be harder and colder than ever.  "Go home, Josie," he tells her at the critical moment, "thinking about you could get me killed."  He doesn't get killed, of course; despite the thaw, when he must, he rises to the challenge.  Thinking that such events are behind him, more tragedy befalls him, and he finds more demands fall on him--horrible and difficult demands--before he can again warm to Josie's love.  Costner captures all this perfectly.
Dennis Quade's performance as Doc Holliday nothing short of astounding.  Quade is transformed; he IS Doc.  This is surely the closest we'll ever come to seeing the actual man.  He perfectly captures the acerbic, resent-filled Holiday, condemend to an early death by disease, trying to cheat his comsumption through reckless, fatal confrontations.  His caustic wit and belligerent personality have driven away anyone who might be his friend--everyone but Wyatt.  This is surely one of the oddest friendships, and difficult to understand.  In the scene where they meet, Doc laments that he will never see his native Georgia again.  "I'm sorry" says Wyatt.  Quade's Doc's eyes flash as they jerk up to study Earp; he's clearly ready to fly into a homicidal rage if he detects the least falseness.  But his glare is met by Costner's steady, unflinching, guileless stare.  Doc seems surprised, then pleased, in a roundabout way he proposes they be friends and extends his hand to Earp.  Nothing more is needed to explain the odd friendship between the two men.  It's a richly textured scene with many layers of understanding, perfectly acted by Quade and Costner--who both obviously understand their characters.
Historically accurate?  No.  His brothers never worked as lawmen in Dodge; Doc was merely grazed on the hip at the famous gunfight and never left his feet; only Morgan, among the Earp party, was down when the shooting stopped; Wyatt never stole a horse--at least in the way portrayed in the film; and much more.  But "Wyatt Earp" is certainly much more true to history than any other movie about Earp.  We can forgive the dramatic digressions because there is so much that goes far in telling the history.
It's long, but it needs to be.  I found no part of it dull--though some scenes could have had better pacing.  It is one of my favorite movies.  I watch it over and over, and I enjoy it each time.  I join the chorus asking for it to appear on DVD.