The wonderful thing about documentaries is that they often introduce us to worlds we didn't even know existed.  For example, before "March of the Penguins" came out, how many of us knew about the strange, dangerous and beautiful world of the Emperor penguin?

The 2005 documentary, "Murderball", also introduces us to a new world - the world of hyper-competitive quadriplegic rugby.  Played by quadriplegics in specially-designed wheelchairs, this full-contact sport is the testosterone equivalent of football, soccer, regular rugby, and basketball.  The documentary follows the members of the United States National Quad Rugby team as it prepares for the 2004 Paralympic Games in Athens, Greece.  It also follows the head coach of Team USA's arch-rival, Team Canada as he prepares them for the same goal.

Hollywood couldn't create a screenplay like this.  The characters are incredible:

Joe Soares, the driven former American quad-rugby star who defected to coach the Canadian team after a squabble with Team USA.  Labeled a "Benedict Arnold" by members of the U.S. team, Joe's position as head coach of Team Canada is fuel for the intense rivalry between the two teams.

Mark Zupan, the goateed and tattooed former collegiate soccer star who was thrown from the back of his best friend's truck into a canal where he remained, with a broken neck, for 14 hours before being rescued.

Christopher Igoe, Mark Zupan's best friend, who didn't know Zupan was asleep in the back of his truck when he crashed.  Igoe was uninjured in the crash while Zupan was paralyzed.

Bob Lujano, a quadruple amputee, who lost his arms below the elbows and legs above the knees after a bout with a rare form of meningitis.

Rounding out the cast are Andy Cohn, a bleach-blonde injured in a car accident as a teenager and Scott Hogsett, who became a quadriplegic at age 19.

The spirit of these men is inspiring.  They are cheerful, rambunctious, optimistic and burn with competitive spirit.  It's a blast to hang out with them as they train and hang out.  Their cockiness and self-assurance are contagious and women flock to them.  Each man tells the story of his life, how he became injured and how he struggled with adapting to his new condition.  For each of them, quad rugby was their salvation.  Not only were they able to compete again, but they did it in the company of men with similar circumstances.

The story of Joe Soares provides an interesting counterpoint as it shows his relationship with his wife and family.  Particularly poignant is Joe's relationship with his youngest son, Robert.  Unlike his father, Robert is not athletic or even interested in sports.  Instead, he is academic and plays the violin.  It's obvious that Joe is disappointed that Robert is not more like him but as the movie progresses, the relationship between father and son is transformed.

"Murderball" also follows the story of Keith Cavill, a recently injured quadriplegic.  Injured in a motocross accident, Keith struggles with losing the use of his limbs.  According to the documentary, the first two years are the toughest as quadriplegics go through therapy and learn to do simple tasks such as dressing themselves and moving around.  During this time, people still cling to the hope that they will "walk again" although few ever do.  We see evidence of all of this in Keith's recovery.

The movie had some genuinely emotional moments, made more striking because of their sincerity.  The people in this movie are not professional actors reading a script designed to provoke certain responses from the audience.  They are real people acting in real ways.  I doubt if anyone can remain dry-eyed throughout the entire film.

The movie climaxes in a showdown at the 2004 Paralympics.  I won't give away who wins, but I promise that you will be on the edge of your seat.

It is extremely difficult for Americans with full use of their limbs to imagine what it would be like to be a quadriplegic.  If anything ever happened to me to put me in that condition, I'd like to think that I would be able to handle it but I'm afraid I would not.  After watching "Murderball", I can take comfort in knowing that it is not only possible to accept such unfortunate circumstances, but also rise above them, to become larger than life, and to accomplish great things.

Highly recommended.

----------------------------------------
Michael Mihalik is the author of <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0978545702">Debt is Slavery: and 9 Other Things I Wish My Dad Had Taught Me About Money</a>.  Learn how to gain control of your finances, pay off your debt, and create financial security!