Overall, the Bunker is one of those films that you watch expecting to experience one kind of thrill and end up experiencing another kind. In my case, I fully expected to end up watching a supernatural thriller, instead, I wound up watching a taut and deeply engaging study into group psychiatry and what imagination can do to otherwise rational individuals.

The premise is simple, a group of special infantry in the Wehrmacht, towards the end of 1944, near the Belgian-German border, are forced to seek refuge in an isolated anti-tank bunker. Believing themeselves surrounded, they dig in for a siege and hope in vain for re-inforcements. Inside, the group find a young boy, barely out of school and an aged World War 1 veteran, the enigmatic Mirus. It soon becomes clear that the group are all supressing memories connected to a traumatic event they took part in a year earlier (hinted at in flashbacks). The claustrophic atmosphere of the bunker and the jittery nature of its inhabitants, fuelled by stories of a gruesome medieval legend, lead to paranoia setting in. The group fears that a complex of tunnels under the bunker, has been infiltrated by the Americans. As deaths mount up, their nervousness increases, leading to a dramatic if confusing conclusion.

The film has numerous plus points, the foremost being the taut, quiet tension that is built up and the emphasis on psychological as opposed to visceral shocks. That said, The Bunker did not scare me, only leave me intrigued. All acting, particularly that of John Carlisle playing the mysterious Mirus and Andrew Tiernan playing the psychotic Schenke, is excellent. The sets are superb for the films limited budget and the attention to historical detail is impressive.

But there are flaws, the ending in confusing and faintly ridiculous. The film appears split between implied psychological horror and trying to keep up with a *spoiler* pretense of supernatural elements being present.

Nevertheless, it is a fine film and one that I would thorougly recommend watching for all those with patience and an appreciation of low key horror.