In early 2002, movie audiences were still getting acquainted Irish newcomer Colin Farrell.  On the same token, they were also quite familiar with Bruce Willis' acting credentials.  Putting the two of them together in a racially charged World War II drama would seem an unlikely mixture.  Farrell was already establish his bad boy credentials in Hollywood and Bruce Willis, despite a recent renaissance with films like "Sixth Sense" and "Unbreakable", was still being remembered mostly as `Mr. Joe Actionhero' from movies like "Die Hard".  As strange as this combination would seem, actors and story, the resulting "Hart's War" turns out to be surprisingly good film.

"Hart's War" is set in the waning months of World War II.  While the Allied forces are locked in the struggle of their lives in the Battle of the Bulge, Lieutenant Thomas Hart (Farrell) remains comfortably behind the lines at headquarters, courtesy of strings pulled by his father, a United States Senator.  However, one day Hart volunteers to drive an infantry captain back to the front lines and ends up a prisoner when his jeep is ambushed by Germans posing as Allied MPs.  After a few days of interrogation, he is sent to a German P.O.W. camp where he is promptly billeted to bunk with the enlisted men because he was less than truthful with Colonel McNamara (Willis), the ranking U.S. P.O.W. about the information he gave up under interrogation.  The routine seems to be setting in as the Hart prepares to spend the rest of the war in captivity.  That is, until a few new prisoners are added to the U.S. contingent, two black pilots from the Tuskegee Airmen.  Needless to say, in the still segregated U.S. Army, this does not sit well with many of the soldiers; especially a racist sergeant in Hart's barracks named Bedford (Cole Hauser).  Bedford conspires to get one of the pilots executed on a trumped up charge and not long afterwards, Bedford ends up murdered, seemingly by the other pilot as revenge.  Instead of ordering an immediate for execution of the second pilot, the camp Commandant (Marcel Iures) agrees to let McNamara form a military tribunal to try the case, with Hart, a law student, defending the pilot, Lt. Scott (Terrence Howard).  Of course, there is more to this trial than just trying to see justice served.  McNamara wants to buy time for an important plan while the German staff is distracted by the proceedings, and the entire tribunal is merely a pawn in this plan.

"Hart's War" owes a large debt to great World War II prison movie such as "Stalag 17" and "The Great Escape".  Certainly, many elements are borrowed from these films.  However, it's the addition of the racism angle that sets this film apart.  While some will see this as a forced-upon-the-audience message, it actually fits quite well when one looks at the overall arc of the story.  "Hart's War" is not meant to be a referendum on racism in the U.S. Army in that era.  It simply uses that issue as a way to distract all the characters from the true mission of McNamara's (while also still managing to make a point about racism).  Willis, in his role as McNamara, continues to bring the demeanor of quiet, dignified fury about him that he first put into use in "Sixth Sense".  It's a strong performance, matched Farrell's nuance effort as the naïve (but learning) Tom Hart.  Marcel Iures as the conflicted, manipulative commandant is also a treat to watch.  While "Hart's War" won't ever been in the upper pantheon of great war films like "Patton" or "Saving Private Ryan", it is a still solid, compelling entertainment and certainly worth a watch.