I've alway's enjoyed this movie.  In fact I put it into the catagory of my "cable classics" as I was too young to see it when it hit the theaters.  The combination of carnage, boobies, and gore based humor was awsome at the time and still stands up to this day although the wardrobe and some of the slang dates it.

I'll preface this by saying that I've got the DVD version that came out in 2002, and that was great.  I was very happy at it's special features at the time.  This edition is great in it's own right.  I won't expound on the features carried over from the first DVD offering, so if you want to hear about that go to one of the other reviews.

New Special Features include:

1.  The first new feature is a great retrospective with a good many of the cast and crew.  Great fun seening what they look like now and how they view the film in retrospect.  I'd liked to have seen more, but it was well done.

2.  The second new feature is a really cool documentery about the status of horror in the 1980's which interviews quite a few prominent film directors about thier experiences of making horror films in the '80s.  Almost worth the price of the DVD by itself.

3.  Commentary by some of the cast and crew.  Loads of fun until someone decides to impersonate a zombie.  That gets old really fast, but thankfully the commentaters cut it short (although not early enough for my taste, as I feel we've missed out on some info, but we'll never know).  Otherwise it's very fun hearing the various cast members relate their experiences from the filming and reactions from the public even years later.

To address a few things I've seen online about this version:

1.  Yes, the cover artwork isn't great, but that's just the cardboard slipcover; which is forgivable given the rest.  The actual DVD wrap art is sweet and worthy.  Additionally, the cardboard slipcover is glow in the dark, which I've submitted a photo of to Amazon, although I don't know if they will publish it.

2.  I can't speak to earlier comments about the soundtrack and over dubbing.  I've never watched the movie on VHS, and only have vague, but fond memories of seeing it on cable as a young lad.  You'll have to make up your own mind as to whether this affects the viewing experience for yourself.

3.  The Zombie audio track.  I didn't bother listening to this, and feel a bit bad about writing a review of the DVD without doing so, but if it's anything like the zombie intrusion on the cast track I can live with that.

All in all this is the superior of the DVD releases for this film.  If you have not seen this Zombie movie, then you really owe it to yourself to add it to your collction, and if you own the original release and love the film, then it will enlighten you to a few more aspects and broaden the experience which will be worth the double dip.

My only real disappointment is that they did not include the full interviews with the cast and crew used for the retrospective feature as a bonus feature.  That would have been a boon and I suspect a lot of fun.  Otherwise it's a great package.

Either way, if you are a zombie movie lover you should definately own this film.

P.S.  Send more paramedics, send more cops!