Despite mixed reviews, I wanted to see THE INTERPRETER as soon as I discovered the United Nations had actually allowed director Sydney Pollack unprecedented permission to film on location in the U.N. Building.  Just seeing the inside of the U.N. Building for the first time since I moved from NYC would have made the film worth the price of admission for me, so I was pleasantly surprised when this story of a South African interpreter (Nicole Kidman) embroiled in an assassination plot when she overhears the wrong thing at the wrong time turned out to be a suspenseful, thought-provoking, character-driven thriller that builds up a nice head of paranoia.  THE INTERPRETER's drama is primarily of the cerebral kind, almost a throwback to 1970s thrillers like THE PARALLAX VIEW and Pollack's own THREE DAYS OF THE CONDOR, which is not to say there aren't some suspenseful chases and set pieces.  The jewel in its crown is a nail-bitingly tense sequence on a Brooklyn bus that recalls Alfred Hitchcock's SABOTAGE, even if it *did* beg the question of why an expatriate African political figure (LAYER CAKE's George Harris) involved in hot-button issues would let himself be seen going on a city bus as part of his daily routine, as seen in a newspaper in the film...but I digress... I suspect that most of the negative reviews I'd heard came from folks who resent actually being asked to pay attention to dialogue instead of waiting for stuff to blow up real good.  It was refreshing to see the evolution of the relationship between our heroine and the troubled, all-too-recently widowed Secret Service agent (Sean Penn, reminiscent of a young Marlon Brando here) who's assigned to protect her, their initial wariness thawing into a tender friendship without the pair actually tumbling into bed together.  I've always found Penn a hard actor to warm up to, but Kidman's sympathetic presence has a good effect on him; the two work well together.  I also liked that our heroine, who after all makes her living choosing words carefully, has many fascinating lines about the meaning of words and the nuances of language (one of my favorites:  "If I interpreted `dead' as `gone,' I'd be out of a job.  `Dead' and `gone' are two different things.")  As Penn's fellow agent, Catherine Keener gets some choice dialogue, too; a scene-stealer in her offhanded way, she's like the Eve Arden of the Secret Service.  If you're in the mood for an intelligent thriller concerned with issues and not just a rollercoaster ride on a movie screen, and filmed in ever-photogenic NYC to boot, THE INTERPRETER is very much worth seeing and hearing. I'm looking forward to getting ahold of the DVD this fall. (For what it's worth, my husband wondered why they didn't cast native South African Charlize Theron in the title role.  I figured it was because she was busy making AEON FLUX, and besides, the role would be a bigger stretch for Nicole Kidman than for someone who already had a South African accent! :-)