Against my better judgment, I'm going to enter the fray.  Apparently Vanilla Sky doesn't offer much of a middle ground.  This is one of those films that people either love, or hate.
Recently my wife went out to rent a couple of DVDs and returned with Vanilla Sky.  Since I am not a Tom Cruise fan, I was disappointed.  I was prepared to do something more interesting like clipping my toenails, or re-organizing my toolbox, while she watched this movie.  Ultimately, she did not enjoy Vanilla Sky, my toenails didn't get clipped that night, and my toolbox is still a mess.  Apparently if my wife's reaction, coupled with the response from other reviewers, is any indication, Vanilla Sky tends to appeal more to non-fans than fans of Tom Cruise.

If your goal is pure entertainment, or if you want to sit back in your chair and go along for the ride, this movie is not for you.  It's not simply a spectacle.  To understand and enjoy this movie, you must participate, you must think.  While not completely predictable, this film contains frequent clues and hints regarding its outcome. 
Vanilla Sky is beautifully filmed, and includes remarkable performances from Cruise and Cruz.  Tom Cruise (As David Aames) is forced to act without the benefit of his famous good looks for perhaps only the second time in his career.  He delivers an emotional performance that is pact with charisma and depth.  You cannot help but fall in love with Penilope Cruz as Sophia.  Kurt Russell was definitely well cast as Dr. McCabe (A psychiatrist who also appears to function as a spiritual guide for Cruise).  Personally, I believe this movie's greatest flaw was the casting of Cameron Diaz as Julie Gianni.  While the casting of Diaz may have been good for the box office, her performance was weak, childish, and consistently broke the pace of the movie.
Vanilla Sky inspired me to run out and purchase "Abre Los Ojos" (Open Your Eyes), the Spanish film by Alejandro Amenabar.  For those few readers that don't know, Vanilla Sky is a remake of Abre Los Ojos.  I've read and heard criticisms of Vanilla Sky as it compares to the original.  One frequent comparison between the two films is that Vanilla Sky "over does it", especially when Tom Cruise's David Aames is compared to Eduardo Noriega's Cesar.  While David Aames is the extremely wealthy head of a New York publishing firm (To a small extent David Aames struck me as a JFK JR type), Cesar is a moderately wealthy partner in a catering company (US extravagance vs. European moderation).  In both versions of the story our protagonists clearly have access to the finest physicians available, and they can afford the ultimate solution depicted in this film.  Regardless of any reall or imagined differences between US and Spanish health care costs, and the diferences between lifestyles depicted, in a nutshell both characters must have access to great wealth.  Frankly, I don't believe that an American audience would accept that the owner of even a large catering company would have access to the kind of wealth that would make this story plausible.  Also, the David Aames position in society adds another dimension to this film.  Do you have friends, or just people who need something from you?  While both are essentially the same films, they were created for different target audiences.  Both films stand on an equally firm footing.