I am one of the biggest fans of Anna Netrebko. I have already commented on this blog his unforgettable Massenet's Manon and soon his surprising comment here I Puritani, by Bellini.
The unique voice to the beauty execpcional generates an artist of the first magnitude. Sexy and smart on stage without fear of taking risks. Young and the peak voice, all of Anna Netrebko is one of the best sopranos of today.
The video Anna Netrebko-The Voice, the Woman has a great singer in 5 music videos. Famous arias of great operas, or "assovi&aacute;veis" as his friend John T. Louis Prada e Silva, blog Melomania: Loving Classical music. This I recommend.
Don Giovanni, Mozart, Gounod's Faust, Puccini's La Boh&egrave;me, Rusalka, Dvorak and La Sonambula, Bellini been chosen. All of them are in the form of video clips. The director Vincent Paterson uses this language to present excerpts from opera. It got ridiculous, out of context, without connection. Place video clip is on MTV.
Use trees as people in Don Giovanni is an atrocity. Your tone is not married to La Sonambula, his French opera by Gounod is Poorly.
They still put as a bonus, an excerpt from the opera Ruslan i Lyudmila, Glinka, and two arias from La Traviata by Verdi. The first had been released on DVD and there is nothing new. The arias are from La Traviata live show's debut in this opera and Netrebko are the only interesting thing in this video.
They thought the business, selling DVDs for the general public and young. They did a job that scares those who like opera.
Friends, shelf it. This deserves to be buried in the confines of chilly Siberia.

Prateleira Neles: Gravações que merecem ficar mofando na prateleira. Anna Netrebko-The Woman,The Voice

Sou um dos maiores admiradores de Anna Netrebko. J&aacute; comentei nesse blog sua inesquec&iacute;vel Manon de Massenet e em breve comentarei aqui sua surpreendente I Puritani , de Bellini.
A voz &uacute;nica,  aliada a uma beleza execpcional,  gera uma artista de primeira grandeza. Sensual e inteligente no palco, sem medo de correr riscos . Jovem e no auge vocal, tudo isso faz de Anna Netrebko um dos melhores sopranos da atualidade.
O v&iacute;deo Anna Netrebko -The Voice, the Woman apresenta a grande cantora em 5 v&iacute;deos musicais. &Aacute;rias famosas de grandes &oacute;peras, ou "assovi&aacute;veis", como diz o amigo João Lu&iacute;s T. Prada e Silva,  do blog  Melomania: Amando a m&uacute;sica Cl&aacute;ssica . Este,  eu recomendo .
Don Giovanni,  de Mozart, Fausto de Gounod, La Boh&egrave;me de Puccini, Rusalka,  de Dvorak e La Sonambula,  de Bellini foram os escolhidos. Todos eles estão em forma de clipes de v&iacute;deo. O diretor Vincent Paterson usa essa linguagem para apresentar trechos de &oacute;pera. Ficou tudo rid&iacute;culo, fora de contexto , sem nexo. Lugar de v&iacute;deo clipe &eacute; na MTV.
Usar &aacute;rvores como pessoas em Don Giovanni &eacute; uma atrocidade. Seu timbre não casou com a La Sonambula, seu francês na &oacute;pera de Gounod &eacute; macarrônico.
Colocaram ainda, como bônus, um trecho da &oacute;pera Ruslan i Lyudmila, de Glinka,  e duas &aacute;rias de La Traviata,  de Verdi. A primeira j&aacute; havia sido lançada em DVD  e não tem nada de in&eacute;dita. As &aacute;rias da La Traviata são ao vivo, mostram a estr&eacute;ia de Netrebko nessa &oacute;pera e são a &uacute;nica coisa interessante nesse v&iacute;deo.
Pensaram no comercial, em vender DVDs para o p&uacute;blico leigo e jovem . Fizeram um trabalho que assusta quem gosta de &oacute;pera.
Amigos, prateleira nele. Esse merece ficar enterrado nos confins g&eacute;lidos da Sib&eacute;ria.

Ali Hassan Ayache