I love LCK and what I particularly like about him and his comedic viewpoint is that nothing is sacred and everything is worth examining, but nothing is more important or right or worng than anything else.  He is brutally honest. I remember from one of his HBO one-man specials where he says he is not gay but we would certainly do all kinds of sexual things to Brit actor Ewon McGregor because he found Ewon especially attractive and he didn't know why.  It takes a real man with real integrity to say that and I applaud that he always seems to tackle gay issues especially humourously and innocently.  In Season 1 there are lots of references to gay topics and in one particular episode it really hits close to home.  What I like about the show Louie (and his general comedic writing) is that he deals with the weirdness, the stupidity, the craziness, but also the grandness, the profoundness of everyday life. He takes nothing for granted and you can tell he examines life's nuances carefully in his art but yet he can also tackle the big issues: love, sex, religion, politics, art and reveals the comedic, and sometimes tragic, sometimes tragic, sides of these subjects.
I like that he takes what would seem to be on the surface of things a mundane topic but then distorts it and examines it to reveal how really strange life can be. Also, what I like about LCK is that there is a certain innocence to his point of view, so even subjects like penises or vaginas, excrement, or ejaculate (Season 1 is replete with these references), is treated as if they are just a part of life, which if course they are. I also can't help feel in somehow comparing LCK's comedic to that of noted story writer Raymond Carver, who often wrote about everyday people, going through seemingly mundane things in life, but therein lies a certain profoundness in those experiences, and sometimes a comedic one, sometimes heroic, sometimes tragic. It's not the best comparison but there are shades of that feeling when reading Carver's work and listening to LCK. "Louie" the show is a real treat because each episode is not how you expect the episode or any episode to develop, there is no formulaic pattern, just some comedic (and often surreal ones at that) moments happening in the life of Louie.