I must admit that I'm not a Jackie Chan fan, so I didn't like this movie at first, but quite to my surprise it did grow on me after repeated viewings.

This movie is a rather incongruous mixture of a silly Jackie Chan action movie and a serious ancient Chinese epic.  I suppose the part that grew on me is the latter.  I've always been fascinated by the legends and myths surrounding the as yet undiscovered tomb of the First Emperor Qin of China, and this movie's interpretation of it is spectacular indeed (if you can overlook the silly bogus "science" the movie invoked in trying to explain everything, some things are best left unexplained...)  But to appreciate it, I suppose one has to know a bit about the actual legend. e.g. it was recorded by an ancient Chinese historian who lived about 100 years after Qin that 700000 workers labored for 20 years to build the emperor's tomb, and that it was so huge that it resembled an "artificial universe".  In the high ceiling were embedded thousands of glittering gems mimicking the constellations in heaven, while on the floor there were rivers of mercury recreating the major rivers in China in miniature.  While the movie took liberties with anti-gravity and other silly things, its depiction of the emperor's tomb is based on historical records.  My jaw dropped when I first saw it :)

As for the rest of the movie, apart of the historical epic part, it's pretty standard Jackie Chan fare: silly story with silly fights and silly gags, and some good-looking babes as eye-candy: including the Chinese debut of Korean beauty Kim Hee-Seon and Bollywood sweetheart Mallika Sherawat.  Chan's acting is sub-par as usual, especially in the romantic scenes with Kim, which suffered from lack of chemistry and credibility (though it's still better than the cringe-inducing "romantic" scenes in Star Wars Eps. 2 and 3).

By jarring contrast, the ancient Chinese epic portion of this movie is very serious, so much so that they apparently decided to artificially squeeze Jackie Chan's face (to make him look more serious? more handsome???) whenever he appeared as the Qin general Meng-Yi in the DVD.  And unlike most other Jackie Chan movies, this part of the movie is surprisingly violent and bloody.

As I watched this movie, I kept thinking that this would have been a much better movie if it had been directed by Zhang Yi-Mou and re-written by someone else, and if Jackie Chan's not in it...

For me, the highlight of this movie is the spectacular and imaginative depiction of Emperor Qin's tomb, and for that alone I'm willing to overlook the other weaknesses in the movie.