After I watched this movie, it left me wanting to know more about the rest of the life of the main characters.  I actually wanted to read the original book by Che Guevara and the books by Alberto Granado and added those books to my wishlist.

This movie portrayed Che Guevara in a positive way even though through further discovery, he also had a negative side.  The good, bad and the ugly that complicated individuals sometimes own, never mind regular individuals.  However, I have had an interest in any kind of media (books or movies) that show the experiences of peoples lives that are different from my own.  It really provides and enlightening perspective of what makes people tick.

Like a lot of typical college students the summer of their graduation in America who travel to Europe, Asia, etc. to seek fun and adventure, this offers a similar journey of 2 friends who journey through Latin America ultimately to work in a leper colony.  The journey and experience with the people from different nations and cultures ultimately shapes the lead characters future endeavors, including Che Guevara becoming a revolutionary in Cuba.  It gives great insight how a single experience can change the destiny of one's life.

It also is a great testimony how 2 friends who start out having common goals and aspirations can all of a sudden go their different ways.  I could really relate to this experience, as I have also found this to be true in my own life.  I give kudos to the writers of this film who wrote a very layered piece which could relate to individuals on many levels and the actors were on point in their portrayals.  Robert Redford is the executive producer on this film and made a wonderful choice in taking on this film.  A true tribute to his development and experiences with the Sundance Film Institute.

The most important thing the movie reflects is truth and self-realization.  The truth that 2 friends wil be parting ways and what path each one will choose.  One comfortable and safe, the other difficult and challenging.  It was a truly human film that made me reflect on the choices of my life and what my life would have been had I made different choices.  A true coming of age movie.