Alot of people today seem to have forgotten Beavis & Butt-Head. People today usually restrict themselves to The Simpsons or South Park. Although those shows are EXTREMELY hilarious, we must never forget the crazy antics of Beavis & Butt-Head. Because without Beavis & Butt-Head, shows like South Park would probably never exist. Matt Stone & Trey Parker (creators of South Park) themselves said that they like Beavis & Butt-Head. And there would CERTAINLY be no King of the Hill without Beavis & Butt-Head. If you have seen little to no Beavis & Butt-Head in your life, then you are truly deprived of really funny comedy. Mike Judge (creator of Beavis & Butt-Head and King of the Hill) is a very funny person with very good ideas, and this movie proves that beyond a shadow of a doubt.
For those of you who don't know, Beavis & Butt-Head are two very stupid yet very funny teenagers who are completely perverted and who are obsessed with heavy metal bands such as AC/DC and Metallica. Their crazy antics affect their life at home, at school, at stores, and basically everywhere. If you don't think they are funny from just this description, buy this movie and your attitude will change COMPLETELY!
Beavis & Butt-Head Do America is basically Beavis & Butt-Head on a roadtrip across America. After their T.V. is stolen, they are somehow thrown into an international conspiracy dealing with two criminal masterminds and a virus that is inside a computer-chip-like object. While they are being thrown into all this, they are prooclaimed the most dangerous men in America. And while the FBI is after them, they are blissfully unaware of what is going on. I don't want to give away what actually happens in the movie, but I will say that their journey takes them from their home town of Highland to Las Vegas, the Hoover Dam, a church, the Old Faithful geiser, the middle of a desert, and Washington D.C..
All in all, this movie is one of my favorite comedy movies of all time. This movie deserves a place right next to South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut in your personal VHS/DVD library. If you like comedy like South Park and The Simpsons, then you will definately like Beavis & Butt-Head and ultimately...Beavis & Butt-Head Do America.