I was 13 years old when the original RMPM first aired in 1976, and I was so enthralled by it that I watched it all over again a year later when ABC reran it after Book 2 completed its run. During both of these broadcasts, Book 1 consisted of seven episodes. Episodes 1, 2, 3, 6, and 7 were of two hours duration, while episodes 4 and 5 were one hour each.

During the Eighties, Book 1 was rerun several times in syndication, and I took each opportunity to tape it on VHS. There were two different versions syndicated: one edited the series into eight 90-minute episodes; the other edited it into twelve 60-minute episodes. These format changes created artificial chapter endings that were not intended by the original script and which also altered the dramatic pacing of the story. (The proper ending of Chapter 1 should be Tom being sent away from home rather than Axel and Mary having an argument in the 90-minute version or Julie walking down the street in the 60-minute version.) In addition, the order of several scenes was juggled to fit this reformatting, and a few scenes were cut completely as well, so no syndicated version was ever complete or matched the show's original run. So I kept my tapes of all the different versions -- the earliest of which were recorded using an aerial antenna and not very good quality, while the later tapes were recorded off of cable and far better.

During the Nineties, Columbia House released the series on VHS in the 12-chapter, one-hour episode format... but while they claimed the series was complete, several scenes were missing. So I painstakingly combined the Columbia House footage with footage from the best syndicated version, restoring deleted scenes and restoring the two-hour episode format and proper chapter endings, and I edited a hybrid which came as close as possible to the show's original 1976 7-chapter run. This version is what I have watched over the years since then, enabling me to enjoy this wonderful miniseries as I had originally enjoyed it more than thirty years ago.

After years of waiting for a US DVD release, I was overjoyed to see it had finally happened. I'm ordering my set right now. But I am deeply disappointed to see that apparently the original 1976 format was not used and that Book 1 is edited into the syndicated 12-chapter version. I don't understand why Book 1 couldn't be released as originally broadcast. Surely Universal could have provided A&E with the original format instead of the syndicated version. Re-editing and reformatting the series for various syndicated markets over the years was a necessity, but there was no need to release the official US DVD version in anything other than the original broadcast format and the way Book 1 was originally meant to be viewed.