Philip Kaufman's brilliant film Henry and June had critcs and the public, either praising it to the hills or completely confused and disappointed. Now I go with the former. Henry and June is a real work of art.  And to be released in 1990, proved to be a groundbreaking work. Like Kaufman's Unbearable Lightness of Being, H and J is rich in detail, true to the story and takes you on a passionate and educational journey.
People argued that the film was not totally true to what Nin and Miller wote in their diaries, but talking to others who saw the movie, disagreed. The dvd tranfer is excellent, doesn't diminish the cinemtography and the beauty of the film's characters. Having said that...onward to the performances.
Uma Thurman's performance continues to be burned in my mind, ever since i saw the movie back in 1990. It was hard to figure how i could describe such a great performance. then, watching it a few times...i figured it out. Simply put, Thurman enbodies June, the way all those method actors from the 50's worked their craft. Memories of Brando (Streetcar), James Dean (Giant) and Montgomery Clift (A Place in the Sun) come to play, discussing Thurman. It should be noted, Thurman has a limited amount of screen time in the story, which makes her all the more fascinating.
In other words, it is a work of great craftsmanship and magic. An oscar nomination would have been a  consideration, but of course, the nc 17 rating put an end to all of that. And, truth be told, lesbian sex in a movie, at this time, before the gay lifestyle became chic and accepted in 2011.  But, if anything, it is worth the rental of the film to see Thruman's entrance in the movie. This movie clearly made Thurman a movie star and a craft worker of great measure.
The performances of all the other actors also is amazing (seeing that Thurman stands out, though).  Maria de Manois plays Nin with passion and full of the discovery of her quest for more and more. Fred Ward gives the performance of his lifetime, bringing Henry Miller to life, whith machismo and mojo. Richard E Grant and Kevin Spacey bring much humor and support in their roles, as well.
A riveting movie, with a story that won't quit with it's genius intact..Henry and June is a must see for anyone who appreciates great theater and great performances.
oh, by the way, did i mention Uma Thurman's performance...just kidding.