Do The Right Thing (1989)

It's hard to believe that it's been 20 years since I first saw this movie in theaters, but it has and I'm getting old.

This one chronicles The hottest day of the summer in the Bedford-Stuyvesant (Bed-Stuy for short) neighborhood of Brooklyn, NY. Danny Aiello plays Sal, the owner of Sal's Famous Pizzeria that has been there for over 25 years. During that time, I assume the neighborhod changed from predominately Italian American immigrants to mostly African American. Through it all, it seems as if Sal is very appreciative of the business and people that have allowed his family to thrive over the decades. Sal's son , Pino (John Tuturro, Transformers), who works at the Pizzeria is less appreciative. He is very open about his dislike for black people and openly urges Sal to sell the bussiness and move to the predominately Italian neighborhood of Bensonhurst Brooklyn. Spike Lee plays Mookie, the neighborhood guy that Sal hired to deliver his pizzas across Bed-Stuy. Needless to say, Mookie and Pino don't get along.

Long story short, in the course of one day, things devolve, a lot of good people make some tremendously terrible decisions and some regrettable events transpire in what the American Film Institute included in it's 100 most Powerful Moments on Film (link when I get home.They subsequently named DtRT thier 96th greatest american film of all time.) You as the audience are tasked to decide who "did the right thing." As a teenager, I always thought that Spike Lee used the Mookie character to speak for his own opinions on the matter, but now, 20 years later, in the age of Obama, I really don't think so. I think he was just writing the character. His director's commentary seems to confirm that. He says he gave up offering his opinion on the "Right Thing" a while after the movie was released. The shot of Public Enemy's 1989 anthem "Fight the Power" playing in the backgroung while panning through the ashes of Sal's Pizzeria was worth it alone.

I have to admit that sometimes the characters seem more like caricatures and in a weird way, that helps to give a it a feeling that this could be any black neighborhood in the US at almost anytime, but when it's all said and done, this is a great movie, IMHO. In my mind, this is one of our modern classics that is a must have. If you've never seen it or rarely seen it, I strongly urge you to give it a viewing. Ernest Dickerson (Cinematographer, Director of Dexter, The Wire, Stargate Universe) made a concious choice to film this movie in the hue of yellow in order to get a summer audience to "feel the heat" and this really shows through well on Blu-ray along with other movie magic he reveals on a special featurette. The special features are well worth it for the director's commentary alone. Spike Lee is not a typical director and his personality really shines through. Looking foward to more Blu's from Spike like Malcolm X and Jungle Fever.

It's worth noting that if this movie came out right now, it would be considered "star studded." Ossie Davis, Ruby Dee, Danny Aiello, John Turturro, Spike Lee, Rosie Perez (who was a freakin' hottie despite her mouth), Bill Nunn, Martin Lawrence, Giancarlo Espisito and many other were in here and for many of them, it was their first film. I'm really glad to have this Blu-ray in my collection.

Film 9.0 Disk 7.5