Hannibal Rising is a good, solid thriller. It tells a heartbreaking story of a boy whose parents were killed during WW2, his younger sister murdered and eaten by savage looters who were fighting neither for Russian army nor for German one but for themselves. After some years of wandering, growing up and finally finding a decent home he starts looking for those prowlers to kill them one by one in most brutal ways a viewer can only imagine. The story-line saves some twists for us along with all the necessary bloody and disturbing details. Sounds nice. But not if it's a story of a young Hannibal Lecter. So four stars go to this film as to a picture apart, not as to another segment of life of Dr. Lecter.

And it's not the fact that Hannibal Rising doesn't contain even 10 percent of psychological intensity of The Silence of the Lambs. Watching Jonathan Demme's film we were dazed and horrified by Dr. Lecter's evil ways. Such a monstrosity was always beyond our comprehension. We could just conjecture what his childhood had been like and how he had come to be such a villain as he was. Dr. Lecter's background and his psyche always remained a mystery to us. Usually people of this kind come from normal families, they have normal lives, and their small deviations are not seen untill the time comes. But here, in Hannibal Rising, everything is pretty simple and all the explanations are restricted by limits understandable to Everyman. By Freud for example. Yes, young Hannibal witnessed the death of his parents, he saw his sister brutally murdered and eaten by a bunch of subhumans. Certainly now we know why he's such an evil and why he eats people! Oh, the filmmakers forgot to discover if he peed in his bed as a boy and whether he was breastfed untill he was two years old. I mean, c'mon... Some things are better kept secret, really.

We were always amazed by Dr. Lecter's education and sophistication. Now we get to know in his teens he was raised by his aunt who was Japanese and tought him everything exquisite and elegant she knew from her homeland including bushido... Oh, and her family died in 1945 in Hiroshima(!) Come on now, people!

I truly believe Thomas Harris shouldn't have written this book. But since he's a talented writer and since Dino De Laurentiis is a talented producer and a person who knows how to squeeze everything possible from a story, Hannibal Rising came out to be rather good and professional. It will come to no one's mind to compare it to The Silence..., and people may argue about whether it's better or worse than Manhunter, Hannibal or Red Dragon, but anyway it's better to embrace this film as a separate work of art. This way you won't be disappointed. Not so known Gaspard Ulliel played young Hannibal which is a good thing because wide audience doesn't know him and he can be scarier and more ominous than any other famous actor. For that matter I also liked the rest of the cast. Not that famous but brilliant Rhys Ifans and beautiful Li Gong, popular in China but known in the West mainly by Mamoirs of Geisha and Miami Vice are extremely interesting to watch.