So Im walking through the BX (Thats "Base Exchange" or "Planet Mall" as we so lovingly like to call this extension of hells reach on earth) the other day and I see what can only be described as a bright light shining down from the heavens themselves.  What was this bright light shining on, you say...hold your horses your little Jimmy, Im getting to that. Anyway these little pieces of impulse buy (which by the way were still smoldering from when they were placed there on the shelf by Satan himself) were none other than the latest releases from the antipop quartet known only as "Tool". Priced at a mere 12.95 for the set I adjusted my jaw and thought: You know, Im a grown man, and I just happen to have $12.95.  So as a matter of course, I bought them.  Yessss Im a TooL...blah!  I could rant all day about how I came to this decision to purchase.  Blame it on the media.  Blame it on myself.  Heck blame it on you.  The truth is I blame it on all the disenchanted, brainless hacks on the internet who decide to write "reviews" of something, many of which are dated months before the actual release date, that they havent purchased or much less even listened to.  Many of these reviews state how much of a waste of money this set is.  Many of them cry at the fact that you have to buy to two seperate DVDs.  shut the HECK up.  In this day and age of internet downloading, for a band too release two seperate packages so they might have a slight chance of making a buck shouldnt seem odd or greedy.  The real greed comes from the saints who wrote these reviews, who in all probability instead of biting the 12 to 16 bucks simply downloaded the set from the internet.  Greedy Bastards. Ok enough about those people, lets get down to the real meat and potatoes shall we...

Parabola:

This DVD includes of course:

Stunning imagery and a pretty cool menu sequence that shifts through the different layers of the human body, much like the booklet that came with Lateralus.  The Video is the awe inspiring original video that was released for the single.  The second option on the DVD is to watch the video with an...uhhh...insightful commentary track by none other than the infamous Jello Biafra (Im still trying to figure out where he fit into the theme...).  First thing, if you dont have stereo, dont bother.  This commentary is a Duel Commentary track, which means you will be hearing diff audio from the left and right speaker.  At the begining he's talking about two diff things in each speaker and as the video progresses his thoughts start "agreeing" with each other and they echo and distort what the other is saying.  I thought the effect was really cool if not hard to keep up with at first.  His actual commentary is something like watching Mystery Science Theater on acid.  I believe it was Al Jorgenson who once quipped about how much he loved Jello and having him on tour, but about halfway through the tour they would have to send him home because of his mouth and its tendancy to almost get them killed. Nonetheless Its a very funny track and worth hearing at least once.  The final offering on this DVD is a remix by the master of dark ambient Lustmord.  If you've never heard anything by Lustmord buy one of his cds, turn off all the lights and turn up the stereo.  Absolutely amazing.  He makes the creepy music of TooL, even creepier.  He does a fine job of mixing it, my only complaint is that he strectched out Parobol to about 13 min but didnt bother with Parabola.  Heck with it.  Nothings perfect.  But for a TRUE fan this DVD is definitly one to look into.

Schism:

This DVD includes of course:

More stunning imagery and a menu sequence that is a fleshy spinning spiral.  The video of course is the same one released with the single.  The commentary this time around is done by a fellow named David Yow formaly of The Jesus Lizards.  It is also recorded in Dual Commentary format, but never comes to a point where the voices agree.  I actually understand why they did this, Since Schism does mean "A Seperation" It makes sence that the voices never come together.  Still more funny commentary.  David proclaims that the video is all about ears, then orders a tequilla and gatorade from Maynard.  The remix on this one is also created by Lustmord but in my opinion is a much better effort.  He manages to strech a 7 min song into a 20 min odysey of sound and it has a lot more to do with the actual song.  Once again turn off the lights, turn up the sound, and listen darn it! Listen to the music instead of your own voice whining, and when its over listen to it again or put it back on the shelf till your starving for more.  Once again, you shouldnt buy one without the other, so give em a try and if you dont like em...save em for a couple years then sell em on E-bay for a quick buck when they're out of print.  In case you havent checked copys of Salival are still selling for a lil under a $100...or more. I think its worth the $12 investment. Dont you?