Rubbish, is what I call this film. Unbelievable actions by the captives, sexual perversion which is rediculous and reflects the perverted mind of the director, who was incidently killed by a male whore.

Even if this work had artistic merit, which IS VERY DEBATABLE. The detrimental effect on society through desensitization and moral corruption would more than neutralize any gain in expression. Based on a debit to credit argument, this film is a LOSER.

This is what a BBC critic said of the film and I could not agreed with it more:

"But why the British Film Institute should re-release Pasolini's "Sal&ograve;" (which was awful in 1975, and is still awful now) is anyone's guess. Perhaps, at a time when promotional budgets for non-mainstream films are almost invisible, the BFI knows all too well that a film stuffed with brutal demonstrations of power and perversion of every kind will at least get noticed.

Yet the re-launch of "Sal&ograve;" is, just as the making of it was, a sad, if spectacular, waste of energy. Notionally a metaphor for Fascism (it is set in Italy in 1944), and specifically about the connection between politics, violence, and sexual excitement, "Sal&ograve;" has in fact no meaningful link to Fascism whatsoever, but is simply a display of twisted lust, spun by the fantasies of four extreme perverts, not to mention the director himself. Clearly Pasolini (who could either be exceptionally inspired or - as here - absolutely dire) had hit the creative buffers, and so - in his tale of four power-mad, sexually-warped members of the ruling elite - seems to relish serving up endless examples of the most gruesome conduct, which include the forced consumption of food spiked with nails, nipples being branded, and - most ghastly of all - the consumption of excrement. Needless to say, the young men and women horrifically abused by the four condescending establishment tyrants are treated like so much available meat."

Addition: I see that a number of individuals are offended by this review, stiff, this is not a true representative sample of the general population. See, the type of people who come here to view the Salo reviews are the ones who like the film and wish to purchase it. It is rather like going to KKK meeting and surveying that demographic to determine the average white's feeling towards blacks.

But I can assure you that 60% at least of the general public if forced to watch this nonsense, would be in agreement with me. This is supported by the fact that this film has been banned in numerious countries.

As one guy put it:

"It was pure torture imposed upon the film's viewers and I'm not sure I understand the point of it all. Establishing his fascist analogy didn't require twenty minutes of fecal consumption and countless rape scenes. "

I tell you the point, the film may have begun as an analogy of fascism, but it deteriorated into a display of the director's perverted fantasies. That is why it is so pointlessly excessive. A director using the theme of fascism as an opportunity to produce a perverse sadistic film. Another example of art used as a pretence, to really disguise a darker intend and desire.

Now the people who watch this film over and over, well all I got to say is this, be careful of them.... very careful.