This movie is wonderful for a pick-me-up.  You can't help but have a smile on your face after you've watch it. I disagree with other comments here that the movie is without conflict, and therefore, lacking.  You don't need major conflict in a feel-good movie.  Besides, trying to merge worlds 125 years apart should count as conflict.  Not every movie needs to solve all the world's problems.

I enjoyed how this movie touched on the "What if" scenarios of removing people from their place in history without forcing an answer.  It causes you to think.  It also serves as a reminder of what dramatic changes this country has seen over the last 125 years.  Is there another 125 year span in history that has seen as much change?  Stop and think about what life was like before some of the simplest inventions were created.  What if Leopold hadn't been there to invent the elevator?  Eventually someone else would have, sure.  But would it have been as timely, as well designed, as safe or reliable?  What would be different if it had taken 5 more years for someone to come up with the idea?

Of course, this movie isn't setting out to change the world or give lessons in American Civilization and certainly not in science (of any kind).  It's up to us to open ourselves to deeper thoughts.  It's also up to us to allow ourselves to feel happy and to smile.  This movie can be the conduit of both.

Back to basics: Of course, Kate and Leopold are the leads of the show, but Charlie is adorable!  He symbolizes the simplicity of heart that is this movie - and he's hilarious.  The movie WOULD be lacking without him.

As to Kate (Meg Ryan's character), I'm not sure she's supposed to be endearing or that we're supposed to want to be her as others have proposed.  She is a harsh NY City Executive.  And, yes, she is stiff and unapproachable even cold: not the type of character we want to love. (Especially with that hair!) But then we find out why - she herself is out of her ideal environment - she's meant to be in the 1800s.  This is a basic fish-out-of-water story as was mentioned previously... for both Kate and Leopold.

I don't want to make this movie sound any deeper than it really is.  It is a cheesy, extremely predictable, love story - and again, it's not trying solve all the world's problems.  But use a little creativity of your own with it.  Movies shouldn't have to spell it all out for us; and they shouldn't have to be deep, emotional dramas to make us think.  Sometimes, they are light-hearted, predictable, moderately funny, sappy love stories.