My rating reflects my affinity for "B" movies.  The three stars are "B" movie stars, not "normal" movie stars.  I am being a little generous since this is only my first review, and there was a very little bit of skin during the opening credits.  If I could I'd give it 2 ½ stars, but I rounded up.  If you aren't into 70's and 80's "B" movies, if you only watch "good" movies, then you can consider this movie a zero.
The DVD video quality is very good, and as others have mentioned, it is in wide screen format.  The audio quality is clean; however, there is poor volume control.  At times the characters are so quiet, they can not be heard; at other times the volume goes high and well past the pain threshold.  I understand this was most likely done for effect, but it is so badly done I almost wonder if it wasn't caused by an error in the transfer process, which appears to have come directly from laser disc.  As the price would suggest, there are no frills or extras with this DVD.  The movie is adequately dubbed.
There are the expected plot problems; in fact, the plot gets down right confused at points.  In my opinion, Fulci failed to fully utilize the creepy Librarian character.  While the gore is pretty cheesy, it was ample, and managed to make me squirm more than once.  The "Bat scene" was a laugh riot, and there is some hilarious dialogue in the film.  The husband is tasked with consoling his nervous wife saying things like, "This is New England, everybody has a tomb in their house".  Lucio Fulci nailed my childhood fears of the basement, and I believe many people will appreciate this as well.  I wish there had been more development on how Dr. Freudstein used his victim's to stay alive.  Any demonstration is notably absent though it is mentioned on the back cover, as well as once in the last 10 minutes of the movie.  This is not Lucio Fulci best work, but it had its moments, and in between the obligatory confusion, managed to scare me.  If you're a fan of the genre, then by all means, rent it.  If you are a hard core Fulci fan, and already own better titles like Zombie, then you can't beet the price of adding it to your collection.