This collection contains the innovative first season of Friends, which has become one of the most popular shows in history. We meet Ross Geller, a slightly geeky, but lovable paleontologist; Joey Tribbiani, a naive ladies' man; Chandler Bing, the wise-cracking data processor; Monica Geller, a cleaning-obsessed chef; Phoebe Buffay, a ditzy masseuse and Rachel Green, the daddy's girl of the group. Each unique in their own way, they make up the sextet that we call our Friends.
1. "The Pilot"- Monica's best friend from high school, Rachel, moves in with her after she leaves her fiance at the altar. Monica's date for the evening (Paul the wine guy) tells her a lie to get her into bed.
2. "The One With the Sonogram at the End"- Ross's ex-wife, who's now a lesbian, Carol, tells Ross that she's pregnant. Rachel gives Barry back the engagement ring he gave her.
3. "The One With the Thumb"- Former smoker Chandler gets hooked again. Phoebe finds a thumb in her soda.
4. "The One With George Stephanopolos"- Chandler and Joey take Ross to a hockey game because he's mopey since it's the anniversary of his and Carol's "first time," but it doesn't help him when he gets hit in the face with a puck. George Stephanopoulos' pizza is delivered to Rachel, Phoebe and Monica's drunken slumber party by mistake.
5. "The One With the East German Laundry Detergent"- Chandler dreads dumping his girlfriend, Janice. Ross helps Rachel wash her laundry.
6. "The One With the Butt"- Chandler's shocked to learn his sexy, new girlfriend has a boyfriend and a husband. Joey finally gets a movie role -- as Al Pacino's butt double in a shower scene.
7. "The One With the Blackout"- During a power outage, Chandler gets stuck in an ATM vestibule with the beautiful lingerie model, Jill Goodacre. Ross attempts to ask Rachel out, but Paolo, a hot Italian guy Rachel met in the hall, gets in the way.
8. "The One Where Nana Dies Twice"- Ross and Monica mourn the death of their grandma, who doesn't quite make it to the great white light on her first try. One of Chandler's coworkers thinks that he is gay.
9. "The One Where the Underdog Gets Away"- Rachel's bummed because she doesn't have enough money for the flight to go on a ski trip on Thanksgiving, but the gang chips in to get her tickets. Monica, Rachel, Phoebe, Chandler and Joey get locked out of Monica and Rachel's place while Thanksgiving dinner is cooking.
10. "The One With the Monkey"- The gang decides to forgo the desperate scramble for New Year's Eve dates and have dinner together. Ross gets a pet, Marcel the monkey, from a friend of his.
11. "The One With Mrs. Bing"- Chandler's sexy mother (played by Morgan Fairchild) comes for a visit and ends up kissing Ross. Monica and Phoebe fight over who should take care of a man they each have a crush on, after he gets hit by a car and is left in a coma.
12. "The One With the Dozen Lasagnas"- Rachel's boyfriend, Paolo, makes a pass at Phoebe. Ross is unsure if he wants to learn the sex of his unborn child.
13. "The One With the Boobies"- Chandler walks in on a half-naked Rachel, seeing her "boobies," as he calls them. Joey meets his dad's mistress.
14. "The One With the Candy Hearts"- Chandler's blind date for Valentine's Day turns out to be his irritating ex, Janice. The girls, dateless, start a boyfriend bonfire. Ross and his date share a table at a restaurant with his lonely ex-wife, Carol.
15. "The One With the Stoned Guy"- Monica tries to get a job as the head chef at a restaurant, so she invites the owner (played by Jon Lovitz) of the place over to her apartment to try some dishes she's prepared. He shows up stoned.
16. "The One With the Two Parts" (Pt. 1)- Joey falls for Phoebe's identical twin sister, Ursula. Ross goes to lamaze class with his ex-wife Carol and her partner Susan. Rachel takes down the Christmas lights, but she falls, gets tangled in the lights and has to be taken to the hospital.
17. "The One With the Two Parts" (Pt. 2)- Monica takes Rachel to the hospital (her doctors are George Clooney and Noah Wyle from ER), but Rachel doesn't have any insurance, so they defraud the hospital by using Monica's insurance.
18. "The One With the Poker"- The girls are sick of being left out of Chandler, Ross and Joey's poker games, so they decide to join them. Rachel tries to find a job so she doesn't have to work at Central Perk anymore.
19. "The One Where Marcel Gets Away"- Rachel baby-sits Marcel, but she loses him. Barry tells Rachel he wants her back.
20. "The One With the Evil Orthodontist"- Rachel gets back with Barry, but it doesn't last. Chandler's crushed when a girl doesn't call him after "one of the greatest first dates of all time."
21. "The One With the Fake Monica"- Monica's credit card is stolen, so she tracks down the thief. Ross sends Marcel off to a zoo in California after he gets too amorous.
22. "The One With the Ick Factor"- Ethan, Monica's new boyfriend is a little younger than she is, but she doesn't learn how young he is until she deflowers him. Rachel has sex dreams about Chandler.
23. "The One With the Birth"- Carol gives birth to her and Ross's son, Ben. Rachel flirts with the obstetrician.
24. "The One Where Rachel Finds Out"- Rachel finds out that Ross has feelings for her after Chandler lets it slip at her birthday party, but she can't do anything about it now because he's in China and he brings back quite a surprise. Joey is participating in a fertility study that requires him to be celibate.