For the Americans unfamiliar with cockney slang:
grass: (n.) informant, snitch; (v.) to inform, to snitch
agro: agravation, trouble
bottle: nerve
boozer: bar/pub
wanker: masturbator
gob: (as a verb) to spit
nancy boy: homosexual
Non-slang:
abattoir: meat-packing plant
Special Branch: governmental unit responsible for dealing specifically with (among other things) "the Irish problem."
There are a bunch of other Cockney words as well and lots of glottal stops, but for the most part you're able to understand the dialogue that really matters. Yes, subtitles would probably help. It's an unfamiliar dialect and you need to tune your ear. (Actually, compared to real Cockney, it's pretty easily understood.) In fact, when I watched it again last night, I specifically paid attention to how much of the dialogue I understood and realized I was missing 1/3 to 1/2. And I could still figure out what was going on.
And this is definitely a film worth watching over and over and over again. The plot is, well, "twisty" only begins to describe it. In fact, this is one of those films in which you're put very much in the position of the hero. Little facts are revealed to you in seemingly inconsequential order. Like a jigsaw puzzle, it starts by working around the edges, and then working its way to the center. Because you generally know only what our hero, Harold Shand (Bob Hoskins in a masterfully controlled performance) knows, you are as astonished as he is when the truth is finally revealed. (In fact, The Long Good Friday presages much of what you experience in Memento, but it's the better film.) 
What all this means is that you have to be patient with it. In the beginning, you're shown a series of apparently random scenes. Then, gradually, the whole comes together and the previous scenes suddenly make sense. It may be this gradual development of the story that makes this film so much fun to watch over and over again. I've now seen it twice in the past week and will probably sit down and watch it again in the next few days. 
Yes, it's tough, it's violent, it's very, very complicated. Which is, of course, what makes it so much fun. (And let's not forget the brilliantly jangling musical score, reminiscent of The Third Man's famous zither.) If you're looking for arty capers like The Thomas Crowne Affair (either version), or witty elegant capers like To Catch a Thief or How to Steal a Million, look elsewhere. But if you like, say, The Killing, or the Godfather trilogy, this one might be right up your alley. Just don't go down it alone.