The single star rating is for the DVD version which was filled with compression glitches and artifacts. The worst I've seen. Special features  of the DVD include two "making of" mini-docs. The first is a  ridiculous puff piece but the second, "Sharks of the Deep Blue  Sea" focuses specifically on the shark effects - animatronic, CG and  actual live sharks - and is somewhat interesting. Director Renny Harlin  challenges the viewer to distinguish between them. Sorry, Renny, it's too  easy - the animatronic sharks, while amazing, fall short of reality and the  CG sharks are just embarrassing.
Also included on the DVD are 5 deleted  scenes with commentary by the director. The scenes themselves are  uninteresting but the commentary is a fascinating brief study in how to  make a Bad Movie - "this was just character development, so we cut  it" - "more character development, but we had to get to the meat  of the story" (what story?) - "this scene made the lead (Saffron  Burrows) to sympathetic". He also tells us his grand vision for the  film - "it's time to see the shark." So, yeah, we get to see it  (or them). A lot. Whereas much of the suspense of a movie like Jaws or  Alien was that you only got tantalzing glimpses until the climax. Harlin  gives us everything he's got in the first five minutes and has nowhere to  go from there. Admittedly he's a professional director who the studios rely  on to deliver just this sort of product. On the other hand he's the same  man who gave us Cutthroat Island.
As for the movie itself - it's a Bad  Movie. If you like Bad Movies, give it 4 stars - it moves along at a good  clip, has a few genuine surprises and one nice twist at the end regarding  the shark's intelligent behavior. If you don't like Bad Movies, give it 1  star - it's classicaly Bad, with cardboard characters, huge plot holes and  unmotivated physical action. Other reviewers have already mentioned the  wildly varying speed of the sharks, inconsistency of bite damage and so  on.
Do yourself a favor. Watch Jaws instead. 25 years old and it still  holds up.