After waiting 21 years I finally saw the sequel to my favorite movie of all time.  It's weird thinking there are people of drinking age who weren't even born when the original came out.  As we all know, this was a straight-to-DVD release; so, from the start, I didn't have much hope.  Though, to be fair, some of the best horror films in recent history, like Session 9, have been straight-to-DVD.  Once I heard Kiefer Southerland's half-brother was playing the lead vampire role I had a glimmer of hope (a sense of continuity).  Then once Feldman was cast I knew it would at least be watchable (for nostalgia if nothing else).

I cautiously awaited its release.

  I sat down expecting the worst; this is a vampire film after all, and most modern vampire films suck a**, not blood.  However, I was pleasantly surprised.  First of all, it felt like a true sequel.  There's nothing I hate more than when a sequel has none of the feel of the original -- a sequel in name only.  In contrast, Lost Boys: The Tribe opens up EXACTLY like the original, at least style-wise.  The camera shots, music montage, etc., all reflect the original.  Good start.  I was dreading the standard quick-cut/choppy editing that plagues so many modern horror films.  Surprisingly, it wasn't there -- total 1987 style film making.  It was if the director actually made the effort to make it fit with the original (imagine that).  In fact, some scenes were eerily similar to the original, stylistically, that is.  The tone, pacing, even the jokes were in the spirit of the original.  The use of classic songs from the original like, "Cry Little Sister" made it really feel like one was watching "a Lost Boys movie".  The movie is FULL of subtle in-jokes only the super-fans will pick up on.

*spoiler alert*  Though I'll try to be very vague.

  Onto the vampires:  Angus Sutherland did a great job as the head vampire.  Granted he has only a fraction of his step-brother's charisma and intensity, but it still worked.  After all, he plays a surfer, not a punk-rock biker, like David.  Therefore, he has a more laid back and casual persona, common with most surfers.  Now, the surfer thing sounds totally lame -- I know -- but if I was a vampire in Northern California, hell, I'd probably surf too.  Why not?  What else are you going to do for kicks when you're forever young?  The shots of full moon surfing were actually kind of cool looking.  In fact, I wish there had been more, or perhaps surfing more dangerously (since they can't die).  The other vampires had personality and weren't cardboard cut-outs.  They even had lines! (unlike the one or zero lines given the vampires in the original).  While the in-the-background/brooding attitude of the original Lost Boys made them a bit scarier, it also made them rather one dimensional.  There is a vampire girl in this one who is totally unneeded (pretty much there just for eye-candy).  Though they did learn from the first movie's mistakes -- no vampire kids!  Thank god.  The ridiculous character of "Laddie" in the original has always bugged me.  The vampires were updated to the current "underground" look (whatever that is), which makes sense.  As much as I love the look of the original gang, the mid-80s headbanger hair would just look silly now.

  On to Feldman -- Edgar Frog:  Honestly, when he first shows up it seemed like he didn't really fit.  As much as I wanted Edgar Frog in this movie, I'm not sure it was such a good idea after all.  Yes, he's the link to the original, but he really looked out of place with the rest of the film.  Part of it was because he looked EXACTLY like he did 21 years ago (right down to the red bandanna).  I think they should have updated his look to reflect the times a bit -- maybe some facial hair.  But then again, if they had, I'd probably complain about "Where's the bandana and camo?".  So you can never make fans 100% happy.  After a while he started to mesh better with the film and had a few funny one-liners, much like the original.

  No Haim:  At first I was disappointed Corey Haim was cut from the cast.  Now, all I can say is, "Thank god!".  If he had been in the movie it would have just turned into "The Two Coreys: The Movie".  Haim does appear in the outtakes and alternate endings.  He looks terrible and can't act worth a damn.  He needs to stick to reality TV.  I'm glad some producer somewhere put his/her foot down and cut that walking train-wreck from the project.

The Extras: Not even worth mentioning unless you like low budget music videos.

Final analysis:  The acting was fine -- about on par with the original.  However, the film doesn't have nearly the same energy and atmosphere as the original, nor the darkness, but it makes a good effort.  I wouldn't want a carbon copy anyway.  Some scenes were wrapped up far too quickly making it somewhat anti-climactic.  There were also a few camera techniques I didn't care for, like the sped-up movement of the vampires.  There were other moments where I could definitely, and unfortunately, sense how the ever-influential Buffy the Vampire Slayer had left its mark, like the vampire make-up, for example.

  I could go on, but I don't want to give away too many specific details.  So over all I would say it was a pleasant surprise.  It's slightly above average, so I'd give it a solid C+.  Who knows, maybe if I watched Lost Boys II as a 12 year old (as I did the original) it would've had a far more powerful impact on me.  I'll probably buy it.  What the heck.