Tobe Hooper must've needed the money.  I'm sure Dennis Hopper did - after all, the mid-80s weren't exactly the high point of his career.  Everyone  else involved continues to toil in obscurity.  This is not to say that this  film is a failure because it didn't succeed commercially or critically -  this film is a failure because the characters and story can not develop  beyond the spectacular first TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE.

 Consider  this - what else can the Sawyer family do that they didn't do in the first  film?  Do you really expect the characters to develop beyond the twisted  butchers they were in the original?  Well, Hooper tries.  He tries to give  Leatherface a heart.  Do you want to see Leatherface in love?  Well, you do  in this film and, trust me, you don't want to see it ever again.  His first  encounter with the film's "heroine" results is a masturbatory  sequence with the chainsaw that is simply in poor taste.  The other  brothers lose their blackly comedic appeal from the first film and become  goofy one-dimensional characters.

 The premise is similar to the  first film:  Family captures girl.  Family wants to eat girl.  Grandpa  (who, at 137 years old, looks YOUNGER than he did in the original) tries to  hammer girl's head.  Chainsaws are revved up.  Lots of things are made out  of bones.  Only two elements are significantly different: 1) The setting -  the family now inhabits an abandoned underground (?) amusement park which  resembles the underground set from GOONIES; and 2) Hopper plays the uncle  of the victims from the first film, hell-bent on revenge.  Well, both of  these elements fail miserably.  The leftover GOONIES set is goofy and goes  nicely with the new Leatherface mask which, keeping with the GOONIES theme,  really resembles the character of Sloth (as does his new soft-hearted touch  - rip-off, anyone?).  Hopper actaully has about fifteen minutes of screen  time, if that much, and spends the majority of his time onscreen sawing  away at timbers in the family's hideout shouting that he's going to  "send them back to hell."

 I've heard this film described  as operatic.  I've heard the ending described as so beautifully symbolic.  Wrong.  The film is simply frenzied in its desperation and can't decide  whether to try to be funny or scary and ends up neither.  The ending is  predictable, a slap in the face to the first film.  Hooper and Hopper  should be ashamed, though Hopper probably doesn't remember even making the  film.  The rest of the cast should leave it off their resume.  The rest of  us should avoid it altogether.