I'm only going to say this once: This may--no, this almost definitely will-- take more than one time through.  If you're looking for a simple plot with lots of action, steer clear of this one.  This series is not, I repeat, is not, for instant gratification.  But I guarantee you, if you have patience and are willing to put your thinking cap on, this series is totally worth it.

I'll admit, when I first started this series, I was pretty skeptical.  I thought the plot was too slow-moving, the animation left to be desired, everyone was talking strangely, and, to be honest, completely boring.  However, I'm also the type of person who prefers to completely finish something before casting it aside as bad, and by the second chapter, I was hooked.  And to this day, I am thankful that I stuck through to the end.  It was worth it.

Repeat value - check!  Every time I rewatch this series, I catch something I missed before, whether a plot element, a good quote, an underlying meaning, or hell, even a nice picture I hadn't paid much attention to before.

This series may not have an official rating, but I'd recommend it for mature audiences only.  Not necessarily because of the violence, nudity, or language; more because it simply isn't easy to grasp.  Less mature (note: I don't say younger, age doesn't always necessarily factor into maturity) audiences will probably find the series boring.  Which leads me into the issue of the animation quality: while it might not be flashy, it's only purpose is to get the story across.  Honestly, I think if any more were added, it would only prove as a distraction.  Instead of worrying about how there isn't much animation, let the words sink in.  Trust me, it's better that way.

With beautiful artwork, relatable characters, outstanding voice performances, a breathtaking soundtrack, and knowing that this is how far the dream of three ordinary (but VERY dedicated) people got.  This is something that I can watch again and again and still get the same effect.  This is something that changed the way I think, provoked me, and inspired me.  This is something where I'm more than willing to shell out $40 to know the truth.  This is Broken Saints.