I haven't laughed this hard during a movie in a very long time!  My girlfriend and I spent the rest of the night making fun of the characters, the situations, and of course, the ever-present, ever threatening. . .um, frogs.

The best part of the whole movie is that it's not trying to be funny.  A viewer should watch this stinker in an "Army of Darkness" kind of mood.  Don't expect great or even marginal acting, plot, soundtrack (ugh!  It's like fingernails on a chalkboard but only in the most "exciting" scenes), or character development.

Everything about this movie is hilariously awful!  Even the title is ridiculous.  A better title would have been "This Movie is About Everything but Frogs."  People die from alligator, spider, snake, lizard, and heart attacks but not from frog attacks.  Now, I suppose if you REALLY get creative you could imagine the frogs having mutated from the man made toxins into having greater intelligence and commanding the more vicious animals to do their bidding but only one line of dialog even hints at such a nutty premise.  But if that is not the case, the frogs are just around for amphibious window dressing.

Funniest scene:  When the older lady walking through the swamp chasing butterflies sticks her head in a festoon of moss and screams thinking she is being strangled by some animal gone crazy.  She hollers in a tone that sounds as contrived as it is tedious

"aaaaaa . . . aaaaaaaa"

then realizes she's not being choked, pulls her fool head out and wonders off.  This is really bad, folks.

Second funniest scene:  The frogs finally attack. . !  Sort of.  They swarm the backyard and step all over the birthday cake.  I don't know what it is but once I saw hundreds of frogs hop through 3/4 of a movie I just lost it when one of them couldn't hop across an icing laden cake but had to waddle across instead.  My girlfriend and I imagined what that frog could be thinking since it became so intelligent from the toxins.

"Just wait till I get my flippers on my agent!  I can't believe I'm walking across a stupid birthday cake.  I'm a frog!  I'm supposed to HOP!  God, how humiliating!  MAKEUP!"

And then there is the first dead guy who was breathing like he just finished a marathon.

And then the guy who died from poisonous asphyxiation while leaning against a wall and all he had to do was lean a little to the right and he would have rolled out the door into fresh air.

Usually, rotten movies are a waste of money but this one was worth it.  It's not a comedy you laugh WITH.  It's a movie you laugh AT.  But it's a good laugh all the way.

Highly recommended for a wacky Halloween party or anytime you feel ridiculous.  If it hasn't been featured on Mystery Science Theater 3000 it should be.