I love John Wayne westerns. My husband loves his war movies. El Dorado is one of my all-time favorite westerns and right behind "The Quiet Man" for my favorite John Wayne movie.

My kids loved the theme song. The younger one used to sing "Ride Goldie Ride" (instead of Ride Boldly Ride) for days after watching this. I bought it as soon as it came out on DVD as the VHS version was well worn.

Sure, it's a remake of Rio Bravo. I love Rio Bravo but think El Dorado is better. Even though I like Dean Martin in Rio Bravo a lot, Robert Michum  portrays a drunken sheriff so much betterand is funnier. "I've got a bed in the jail. It's hard and narrow, but he won't get bounced around." Ed Asner is a better bad guy. Claude Akins' character in Rio Bravo is a dumb thug; Asner's intelligence shows into his character in El Dorado. Yeah, no singing in El Dorado and I did like that in Rio Bravo. My husband says Rio Bravo is better just because of the very young, scantily clad Angie Dickinson.

John Wayne portrays an honorable gun fighter. He's still tough as nails, fighting on the right side, loyal to his friends, and gets the girl. That part would be a little hard to believe nowadays, or would it? The girl is way young for him and Mitchum, but she is obviously, though it wasn't stated, a cathouse madam, and therefore, a man with money is attractive, regardless of age. John Wayne was one big tall fella, and every time I see this movie, I look for him on his horse, Cochise. Wayne practically dwarfs his horse. Caan and Mitchum were both tall men, but the Duke just towers over everyone.

James Caan is young, handsome, and amusing. His character Mississippi, is just the right complement to Wayne's and Mitchum's near-crusty, experienced gunslinging characters. I loved his home remedy for sobering up Mitchum. The bath scene, with many bars of soap is funny, too.

No bad language, no sex (you don't even see lips touch during the kissing scenes), no one bleeds when they get shot, and the good guys win at the end.