Okay, first i would like to say to all of you who are giving it one time for it's "potty" humor....don't be idiots..please.

You are giving an above average comedy a bad review, because you wern't intelligent enough to know what you were getting yourself into when you decided to watch this movie. The reasoning behind my statement? The movie is titled "Meet the Fockers".  What in God's name did you think you were going to see?

Anyways, this movie is pretty funny. In no way do they try to portray greg's parents as "hip" or cool to anyone. They portray them as people who arn't afraid to be themselves. Is there a problem with that? I think not. I'm guessing that to you people who use that as an excuse to give this film such a bad rating, are people who are anti-social. Or are so concerned with what "cool" is...you take every instance in which someone acts a bit differently, and immediately assume it's an attempt to be cool.

Yes, this movie is slapstick, yes it is painful to watch at times. But that's because you see the main characters setting themselves up for trouble later. However, the acting and script handle it beautifully. I just watched the movie the illusionist. I knew what would happen at the end half way through the movie, however, the way everything ties together is what made it such a great film.

Basically, this movie is a 3 and a half- 4 star film. Funny, but not brilliantly clever.

and to the guy who is nay-saying this film, talking about what retired cia folks can or can't afford.

are you serious? it's a comedy. A movie. They are not going into the film saying, okay, how can we make this movie as realistic as possible. Let's make sure every detail is completely precise, so people walk away from this movie not saying wow, that was a good laugh. But, wow, that movie sure was accurate.

Not to mention the fact that, if you knew anything about politics. I'm sure you would know about all the financial scams government officials pull. So unless you worked for the cia. You are not the person to question what is they can or can't afford.

TO EVERYONE WHO READS THESE NEGATIVE REVIEWS. REMEMBER. KNOW WHAT YOU'RE WATCHING...AND DON'T LET THESE PEOPLE WHO REALLY HAVE NO LEGITIMATE ARGUMENT ABOUT WHY THIS FILM IS BAD, STEER YOU AWAY.