This film, the fourth in a franchise inspired by Peter Benchley's novel "Jaws" could be used by either the MST3K crew for episode fodder or by a film school to show how not to make an action-adventure film.

The fact that scenes from the original and far superior "Jaws" are spliced into this film might make the viewer rush to eject this film and watch Spielberg's first blockbuster.  Nevertheless, the film is good stupid fun if you really have nothing better to do.

The film starts with Mrs. Brody's youngest son Sean (the baby on the beach in the original and the kid on the sailboat in the second) being attacked and killed at night by (presumably) a Great White shark.  Mrs. Brody is inconsolable, and she orders her other son, Mike, to stop working as a marine biologist in the Bahamas.  He invites her to visit him partly because he's concerned about her mental state and partly to assuage her fears that he will soon become the victim of a shark attack.

She goes to the Bahamas and meets a single pilot named Hoagie (played by Michael Caine).  She seems to sense that a Great White is lurking nearby and, sure enough, Mike is stalked through a sunken ship by one and her granddaughter is nearly eaten while riding a banana boat on the beach.  Interestingly enough, the boat used in this film is located in 60 feet of water off the shore of Nassau, Bahamas, and local dive stores use it for wreck dives.  I dove this wreck in 1998.

Mrs. Brody decides to take matters into her own hands and kill the shark herself so she steals her son's boat.  Hoagie and Mike find her (spotting the boat and shark from Hoagie's plane) and they all battle the shark before the film's glorious conclusion: the shark being impaled on the bowsprit of the boat.

The fact that in many scenes the shark is so obviously fake so as to make one's eyes roll is one reason the film was panned.  Secondly, Mrs. Brody has flashbacks to events she did not personally witness (Chief Brody's killing the original shark and her son Sean's death as examples); even Roger Ebert pointed this glaring flaw out.

If you want a stupid shark movie, this will do unless you watch "Shark Attack 3: Megalodon" which is even more stupid.