I watched this not knowing what was in store for me, and at the end of the movie, I was completely in awe of this powerful story. Johnny Depp's acting is good, but his somewhat scrawny body and his aged looks just weren't the reason why this movie kept me in my seat throughout. No doubt the story isn't very realistic - its basically about the forces - mainly the evil forces - in life - greed, lust, power... and Johnny Depp plays an underhanded book dealer who is employed by Balkan (Langella) to go on a trip to Europe to research an ancient Satanic book's authenticity. This entire movie is about Johnny Depp taking one long and life-threatening adventure tackling issues beyond what he normally avoids in real life.
Emmanuelle Seigner (and this is just some gossip for you - she's Polanski's wife in real-life!) plays the mysterious woman who appears to help Depp everytime he's faced with a life-or-death situation, and this casts suspicion on her true identity - is she human or is she not? What is she? These are all the questions that Polanski poses to the viewer as you go through the film watching Depp go through his journey which seems to be like a cat-and-mouse chase between him and the greedy people who are after the book's secrets. Seigner is completely mesmerising in her own right. She is very interesting to watch and so charismatic - and rightly so because Polanski filmed her in such a way that drenched her in an even deeper aura of mystery. Olin is good too, she is very convincing in a somewhat shallow role as an out-and-out money-grubbing chic French tramp who bites (literally). 
There are certainly loads of questions left unanswered in the movie, but I think this is the intention of the director who wants you the viewer to make out the story how you want to see it. If you like a movie that features a great cast (albeit not your usual "teen heart-throb" Hollywood stars) shot in an European countryside backdrop, and a theme about the "dark forces" that leaves you thinking a bit - then you're sure to enjoy watching this. This movie has good pace. There's always something happening around the corner for Depp, and then there's always the question of "Who exactly is that *girl*?" I loved this whole movie and would recommend it to the right person.