Being an Exorcist fan for over 20 years, I had waited anxiously for The Exorcist 25th Anniversary Edition.  Unfortunately upon watching the tape, I found myself angered that Warner Home Video didn't care enough to place a  knowledgable team who completely knows this film in charge of the video's  production.
First of all, the "3 original trailers" boasted on  the video's packaging is incorrect.  The very first trailer (which yours  truly saw in 1973) isn't on the tape!  Furthermore, one of two (yes  "two" not "three") trailers is actually a trailer from  the 1978/79 rerelease!  Additionally, there were television spots from  1973/74 which were different than the theatre trailers that Warner could  have used (I suspect they don't even know these TV spots exist), but did  not.
Secondly, when the film was rereleased in 1978/79 (I saw this  rerelease the day Dawn of the Dead was also released) it deleted what I  feel to be a crucial few seconds from the movie: the scene after Father  Merrin exits the cab and looks upon the house with light shimmering from  Regan's bedroom, you see the posessed girl's face morph into a chalk-white  vision seen only in Damian Karras' dream earlier in the film.  Originally,  this face contorted and showed the gastly vision for quite a few moments.  In the rerelease, the film cuts this scene down to just a brief  transformation before it quickly cuts into the next scene where Mrs.  Macneil opens the door for Merrin.
Perhaps the only positive aspect about  this video is the BBC "Making of" documentary.  Although quick  and concise, it doesn't go into specific detail on aspects like Lee J.  Cobb's death, other unused footage of background characters (servants Karl  and his wife had a drug addicted daughter in the novel; supposedly some of  this was filmed), and other tidbits for those who want to know  all-things-Exorcist.
Sadly,Warner even replaced the film's original,  black-and-red opening "Warner Communications Company"  introduction to its new "Warner Home Video 75th Anniversary"  design, robbing the initial sinister mood the original credits had  created.
Anyway, watching this as a regular movie is fine.  But to people  who are genuine Exorcist collectors, it is a disappointing effort.