How would you feel to wake up and realize that your family had forgotten your sixteenth birthday? This is what happens to Samantha Baker in the movie "Sixteen Candles". She wakes up on her birthday to find that her family, preoccupied with her sisters wedding the next day, had completely forgotten. The  movie shows from when she wakes up to a dance at school to her attempt at making the guy she has a crush on- an older boy named Jake Ryan- actually notice her. This movie shows a relatively accurate portrayal of a teenage girls life during high school. Many people can relate to this movie.

 The only part of this movie that many people have a hard time dealing with, but I liked was the foreign visitor named Long Duck Dong. Many people say he was a pointless addition to the movie and added nothing. I think that Long Duck Dong was a good addition, however. He added comedy to the movie. Many think, and I agree with this, that the movie went a little overboard with making fun of him. There were a lot of jokes made about people of Asian descent and about his accent and difficulties with English. However, he did add comic relief. He has many classic lines in this movie and he adds a little something the movie would be lacking without him. For example, he goes to the dance with Samantha which she thinks totally ruins her evening. He steals "grandpa's" car and well...you'll have to see the- movie to see what happens to Long Duck Dong and grandpa's car. Although this part of the movie is not very politically correct, it still is one of the funniest parts.

 The movies strong points were that it was absolutely hilarious. Many people could probably relate to Samantha's problems. She has a guy she doesn't like liking her while the guy she DOES like doesn't even know she exists. Many girls can relate to especially that last part about the guy she likes not knowing her. This has probably happened to every girl at least once during high school. This movie has many funny parts and a lot of one-liners that people can use over and over again.

 I would recommend this movie to anyone looking for a good laugh. This movie is perfect for people of all ages. I still laugh every time I watch this movie and I've seen it at least fifteen times or so. I think this is one of Molly Ringwald's greatest movies along with "The Breakfast Club" which I would also recommend to anyone who enjoys this movie. This movie is good for laughs, it has an easy to follow plot, and I think most people who watch this enjoy it a lot. My mom recommended this to me when I was in bed for a week after a surgery and I have never been in so much pain from laughing. I have seen this movie too many times to count and it still cracks me up every time I watch it. This movie never gets old for most people. I would recommend this to anyone who wants a good laugh.