JOSIE AND THE PUSSYCATS returns to your screen in this new DVD set, bringing you the complete Hanna-Barbera series about the misadventures of an all-girl rock band and their entourage.

This show is not an original production of Hanna-Barbera (as some have mistakenly believed); instead it grew from Don DeCarlo's comic strip JOSIE, created for Archie Comics.  In the wake of Filmation's successful ARCHIE SHOW, HB attempted to create their own teen-rock-band show, which wound up being SCOOBY-DOO, WHERE ARE YOU?  However, HB still wanted their own version of the Archies and finally went to the source, securing the JOSIE property from Archie Comics for development.  The resulting production detailed the escapades of sweet-natured guitarist/bandleader Josie (Janet Waldo), level-headed, inventive tambourinist Valerie (Barbara Pariot), happy-go-lucky, impossibly dumb drummer Melody (Jackie Joseph), stalwart roadie Alan (Jerry Dexter), cowardly braggart and manager Alexander Cabot III (Casey Kasem, in a variant of his Shaggy character), and his vicious sister Alexandra Cabot (Sherri Alberoni), who continuously schemes to gain Alan as a boyfriend and take control of the Pussycats, sometimes with the aid of mischievous and occasionally faithless cat/band mascot Sebastian (Don Messick).  Invariably, the gang ran afoul of a villain in the midst of world takeover; after a series of misunderstandings, chases, songs, and general slapstick, the villain was thwarted and Josie and Co. lived to play another gig.

Many have muttered about JATP's similarities to SCOOBY-DOO (in fact, some of the same score music can be heard in these episodes).  However, it is well-known that Hanna-Barbera often expended energy on doing variations on a theme with its hit properties (witness THE JETSONS, basically a space-age version of THE FLINTSTONES, and of course any number of SCOOBY-DOO retreads such as THE FUNKY PHANTOM, GOOBER AND THE GHOST CHASERS, CLUE CLUB and JABBERJAW, to name a few), so that reason is minimal in my assessment of this set.  JATP is enjoyable, despite the somewhat substandard animation, and the characters are likable, funny and true in appearance to their source material.  My main problem with this set is that the episodes do not appear to have been culled from the absolute best source material; some of it looks like well-worn syndication videotapes, and the soundtrack occasionally drags noticeably.

This set includes a featurette on Dan DeCarlo, the creator of JOSIE, featuring input from such animation/comics notables as Bruce Timm, Scott Shaw, and Stan Lee (who worked with DeCarlo on various humor/girl comics; it is often not known that Lee is a very capable humor writer).  Rather than focus on the show, the featurette instead focuses on DeCarlo and his life and work as a renowned and much-loved artist, touching on his relationship with his wife Josie, who was the inspiration for JATP (in addition to being a real-life Josie).

If you are a fan, this is what you've been waiting for, but be prepared for technical issues.  A basically good set that could have been done a little better.  But at least they're not in outer space...