This is definitely a great show!  I completely agree with previous posts:  I have NO clue how this show has flown under the radar, but I think this is one of FXs best shows ever, and I've been a HUGE fan of FX for a long time.

If you have not seen Season 1 yet, I highly suggest it before you see Season 2.  FX takes awhile between seasons so you have plenty of time to buy Season 1 (which by the way, I think is a great deal!) and watch it before Season 2 comes out and Season 3 comes back on.  They usually release DVDs 1 week before a season begins so as long as you watched Season 1, you can probabaly watch Season 2 and Season 3 together and not be too terribly confused.

At first I thought Season 2 was going to stink because of the whole Wynona/Raylan/Ava/Boyd thing.  From the 1st Season, I wanted Raylan & Ava to be together.  I really didn't like Wynona but actually Raylan & Wynona are growing on me and seeing everyone together, Ava & Boyd are a great match (alot better than I thought) and now that Boyd has his rebelousness back, the Season is getting better and better.  I did not like it when I thought Boyd was just going to be a stick in the mud.  The actor that plays Boyd is a lot better as a rebel, like he was on The Shield (another great FX show).

Highlights of Season 2:  The whole Bennett/Givens family history, which we learn little pieces of as the season goes on.  A coal company (Black Pike) want to buy out the citizens of their properties and a shocking property owner comes forward to sell their land.  Ava & Boyd unexpectedly become roommates and at first it seems that Ava would rather shoot him than look at him.  Boyd goes back into the mines, and then gets another unexpected position with the company.  Wynona finds out that Gary (her soon do be ex-husband) is not at all what she thought he was and she turns to Raylan for support.  Wynona breaks the law and Raylan helps her cover it up.  Raylan loses someone he's close to.  The Bennett/Givens family ordeal comes to a breaking point.

I could go on and on but you get the basics.  If you have seen the 1st season and liked it, then you will definitely love the 2nd season.  If you have never seen the series, I highly recommend buying Season 1 and checking it out.  I know you'll be hooked!