A little while ago today I just got the 2-disc DVD and gave it a quick look over. It's been a LONG wait. The agony is over. Now the pleasure begins!

No need to say much about this epic masterpiece itself. Just DVD stuff here, quick & dirty.

First off, Miklos Rozsa's Overture and Exit music are returned to their rightful places. They do not disappoint. Finally, things are intact. I am relieved that there are people at WB who care about such vital details and can make them happen.

The 'Making Of' featurette is very welcome to fans like me, but even at about 45 minutes, it seems short. I would rather have seen more production clips and photos than seeing the faces of the interviewees, but they were all credible and respectful. I was delighted to see how much director Mervyn LeRoy was acknowledged and appreciated - at last. John Huston is one of the greats, but I agree that he would have been wrong for 'QV'. LeRoy, long underappreciated as a director, really pulled off a stupendous achievement, which is obvious. There should have been more info on producer Sam Zimbalist. No mention of cameramen Surtees and Skall, or much about the art direction, though there was a good bit about FX artist Peter Ellenshaw. Liz Taylor's cameo isn't mentioned, either. On the whole though, an excellent documentary on a subject where anything at all is welcome.

Haven't heard F.X. Feeney's commentary during the picture yet, but in the documentary, he seems a decent pick.

One of the points made was that with DeMille's 'Samson and Delilah', 'QV' launched the '50s-'60s epic film cycle. I would add Henry King's 'David and Bathsheba', also from '51, in the mix. Not as spectacular, but just as meaningful. And its score, by Alfred Newman, is just as important and influential as Rozsa's for 'QV'.

The original trailers (2 of them) are classy and exciting, to say the least. MGM went all out. In the main trailer, the approach is almost scholarly. No trace of kitsch.

I have always wondered why MGM never inserted an intermission. Approximately the final third is on Disc 2, so viewers can fake an intermission, (though without Rozsa accompaniment!). I read somewhere that because of the high resolution of the restoration, the coding takes up more DVD space, but it could be because there wasn't enough extra stuff to make a second disc indispensable, so they stretched it over two anyway.

But what the heck - I'm just ecstatic to see this magnificent picture returned to glory, and that there are a lot of people who care about it. Thank you WB Home Video!

Only tech reservation: the first sequences look a bit washed out, but maybe it's just my monitor. Have yet to mount it on TV.