As a fan of the original anime on which this movie is based, I was wary about a live-action film, and with good reason. The Dragon Ball series is riddled with talking animals, gods, aliens, and other fantastic elements that do not mesh well with a live action film. But it isn't any of these things that earned the film such a low rating.

For one thing, the story lacks development. No explanations are given for more or less anything. The whole movie seems rushed, as if they threw together a story as quickly as possible and decided against putting any real effort into it.

Worse, there is nearly no character development whatsoever. Goku, the main character, is given a typical story. An outcast in school with a crush on the school hottie, Chi-Chi. But beyond that, he lacks depth. When his grandfather dies, he doesn't seem all that upset about it. He doesn't swear to defeat Piccolo, his heart isn't filled with rage. He's just...sad. And then he's over it, as if the man who had raised him had never existed. Goku isn't the only one to feel flat as a character; they all suffer from it, to such a degree that you become bored.

And speaking of bored, the fight scenes weren't very interesting at all. The original anime was all about fighting. Sure there was saving the world, and having adventures, and the eponymous Dragonballs, but in the end it always boiled down to a fight. The fights in this movie were dull. And worse, they were short. Terribly short. There was a fight scene in the anime that lasted over 4 episodes. None lasted beyond 2 minutes in this movie.

The acting wasn't stellar, but to be honest the actors/actresses weren't given much to work with. Like I said before, the characters were all...simple. Boring. Even Piccolo, the almighty alien who wants to rule the planet, gets no development. What is his motivation? Who is he? Where does he come from? None of these questions are answered. I suppose they felt developing the characters was pointless, since this movie was made only to appeal to those who had seen the anime. The fact that you can hardly tell it's James Marsters under all that make-up doesn't help.

This movie isn't the worst movie you'll ever see. It's not terrible. But It isn't good either. The sad part is, there's a lot of potential here. This could have been a good movie, if they had actually put some effort into it. I mean, the final fight between Goku and Piccolo, the be-all end-all grudge match for the fate of the world...was boring. I found myself wishing it was over, even though it didn't last more than two minutes. I was more entertained watching him confront his school bullies near the beginning of the movie.

This was a sad representation of a fine anime, a half-baked attempt to cash in on the popularity of something great. If they'd done it right, it could have been great as well. But movies like this are why anime and comic books have such a hard time hitting the silver screen.