I saw this excellent film in 3-D in 1954, so I've been waiting anxiously for the 3-D Blu-ray disk to arrive.  It came today and I was very disappointed, because there was no sound.  There was sound in the disk menu, and there was sound in the documentary and trailer under special features, but when the movie plays there is no sound at all.  I'm sure it's not my equipment, because I don't have a problem with the sound on any other 3-D Blu-ray disk.  And, the disk itself was clean and free of scratches, so it was apparently manufactured with no sound on the disk. I wonder if I was sent the only disk with this problem, or if many of them were accidentally made with no sound. I've already packaged the disk for return to Amazon, requesting a replacement. And, I'm going to be very unhappy if the replacement disk has the same problem.  As for the movie itself, it is a true classic, having been directed by the great Hitchcock. And, it had a terrific cast, which included the beautiful Grace Kelly, so what more could you want. There is no need to go into the plot, as many others have already covered that. I watched the movie as a silent film, because I wanted to see it in 3-D again after more than half a century. In terms of quality, the restored image was clean and free of scratches, and the color was bright without any noticeable fade or color shift. However, there was much more grain than I expected. The resolution of 35mm Technicolor prints from 1954 is usually better than 1080p, but this transfer looks grainy, like it was made from a 16mm print.  To be fair, this film was not made in Technicolor, it was made in inferior Warnercolor, so I'm going to blame the graininess on the Warnercolor process. I give the film itself four stars, and I give it four stars for the effective use of stereoscopic photography.  I also give the over all restoration four stars, but I can only give the picture quality three stars, because of the grain. Finally, I give the sound zero stars, because there was no sound on my disk.