I saw this movie when it was in the theatres.  I am very confused why it is getting five star ratings on Amazon.  To make a long story short, I booooood this film when it was over.  I actually considered asking for a refund (and so were most of the other people who were there).  The plot (if you can call it that) revolves around a baby-sitter who is harrassed by a caller who ultimately tries to kill her (big surprise there).  The phone must have rung at least 20 times....I have never been so irritated by a movie.  STOP answering!!! You know who it is!!!  The acting was atrocious....by the end of the movie, I WANTED all the actors to die.....I was sadly disappointed.  I used to think Dreamcatcher was the worst movie every made.....but I was sooooo wrong.  This takes the cake!!!

If you value your time in this short life.....I beg of you....don't waste a minute of it watching this garbage.  If Amazon gave the option of negative star ratings....I would give it a -5.

P.S.  Look to the following for evidence.....
1)  How long was the movie in the theatres....did it even make it a week?  I am not sure.  I am told that it did....this is VERY depressing!  The 48 million dollars this movie made could have been better spend on improving education in this country.
2)  I am not the only person writing bad reviews....please read the others.
3)  I went out of my way to write this review....

I edited this review when I noticed one person did not find it helpful.  I apologize if it seems I don't say that much about the content....unfortunately, the problem with this movie is that it has none!!!!

A previous review writer talks about the "SURPRISE" at the end of the movie.....From a technical standpoint, the only surprise is how the police can perform a triangulation on a cell phone out in the middle of freaking nowhere in about an hour.  I know....movies aren't supposed to make sense, but give me a break.  Referring to the "surprise," I don't personally find it surprising that the killer was nearby and actually intended to kill her.  Why!!!??? *sigh*

Newest Post:  Ok....I give up..... 3 out of 9 found this helpful.  What is wrong with you people!!!!  Well, what can I say, feel free to waste your money.  I don't care!  This is the seoncd time I have revisited this post.  Do you honestly think I would be wasting my time with this if I wasn't telling the truth?  Anyway, I won't post anymore....so good luck to you all.

Biasing info:  I am an electrical engineer who has very little patience for stupid people.