I'd forgotten how good this film is. Sure it's a cop action movie but it is genuinely a Sci Fi movie as well. It's claimed one of the definitions of science fiction is that somehow the events taking place effect all of us, everyone on Earth. It's a menace, a disease, a threat, that can kill us all or at least have major consequences. Perhaps this film explores an ideology that threatens us all. . . more correctly this film explores another definition Sci Fi, some kind of change to society. This isn't a children's story or action movie that happens to take place in space or in the future, with people exactly like us. In Demolition Man the population of San Angeles believe and act in completely different ways than we do. Demolition Man stresses how differently they behave.

In 2032 it appears there's no crime, no violence, and no foul language or littering. We don't see those who rebel against this conditioning until late in the movie. At one point in the film Sandra Bullock and her cop partner listen to the radio - the only thing airing are commercials. They happily sing along to the advertising jingles. For the most part, however, the film makers stack the deck by making this look like a better world than the one we live in. This is some kind of 'conservative' movie, I think.

It seems like they took care not to stereotype the villain, Simon Phoenix. He's like a fay, happy, psychopath. He makes no pretenses to be macho, that's for sure. Simon Phoenix takes not caring to a new level. Most likely a coincidence but Wesley Snipes channels a bit of the Joker from the old Batman TV show.

Sylvester Stallone plays the cop John Spartan but anyone could have played him. I think the villain in the film had to be a black actor. Later in the film the mayor of San Angeles tells Simon Phoenix, "People are scared of you". Simon Phoenix relies, as if he's hardly paying attention - and sounding a bit like the character Elmo from the Muppets, "eh people have always been scared of me", The mayor replies with emphasis, "Yes but now they are really terrified of you", "Now we can create a society with order the likes of which has never been seen". When do they just come out and tell you their evil plan? Outside a Hulu commercial, when does power speak truth - when do they come out and just tell you their plan right in your face?

I'd reviewed this before on another site and noted this part of the film is odd in a way. In a society where there's no crime - when a call comes in for 187, the famous call number for murder, no one on the police force even knows what it means - in a society where there's no crime, littering or even foul language, why would they need to restore order? The actor who plays the police chief for San Angeles steps out of character a bit. He plays a tough guy almost. He still doesn't know what the police code 187 stands for but he sort of becomes the cliche of the police chief who tangles who the top cop who's the star of the movie.

I felt this was a good film and did a good job showing citizens of San Angeles acting quite a bit different than we do. They kept repeating the same kind of joke over and over in the film, however. The first couple of times it was very funny. After a while it stopped being funny.