I read through all the helpful reviews and decided to buy - and I am EXTREMELY glad I did.  While I have been dancing for 5+ years, I still consider myself intermediate, especially when I need to take periods of time off.  This was the pefect video to get back into the swing of things.

Blanca is clear, easy to follow, and doesn't let her teaching outfit get in the way of seeing her movements.  She has both warm-up and cool-down sections geared for muscles stretching and control without tiring you out before you even begin the dance.  Blanca uses the progression method of teaching, so you can master each section before advancing on to the next level of the technique, with adequate repetion and instruction to understand what you are doing. My only regret: she never turns around so you can dance with her and see the movements from behind.

From a dvd tech standpoint, the menu is broken down into fairly short sections so you don't have to spend forever fast forwarding your way to what you want.  She does basic foundation for all portions, then performs in costume, and then teaches you the dance itself using the same progression technique.  If you need to repeat a section, it is very easily to find the section until you are happy with yourself.

I would not recommend this to someone who has never had a live teacher  because she is teaching a style rather than the dance per se. Having said that, if you have taken a standard 8-10 week intro course -- go for it!  This can only improve your flow of movement.

I would also recommend this to someone who loves the dance, but does not have the energy or physical capacity for the more 'bouncy' styles of modern bellydance or wants a change of pace from constant shimmies or continuous fast dancing, but still wants the work out and the technique of more traditional belly dance. She does do shimmies, and she can move quickly, but it's also integreted into the dance, rather than the sum of it. And if you don't yet know how to shimmy, you can still do the dance.

All in all, a great workout, a great technique builder, a great value for your money. I enjoyed learning and performing the dance she taught and already have ideas for working some of her moves into dances of my own.

I've paid more and gotten much less from other videos and live workshops!