THE HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL features several recognizable, normally-good actors and is a remake of a classic horror film.  So why is it so bad?  I found myself wondering this throughout the movie as I watched it go from a  potentially good premise to a complete and utter mess.  The film starts of  well, with Price as a wealthy lover of thrills terrifying Lisa Loeb and  James Marsters on his new attraction.  Later, five strangers meet up with  Price and his wife for a party, although nobody seems quite sure about the  guest list.  That's where the confusion starts.  Evelyn decides to have a  party at Hill House.  Somehow, the house knows this and decides it would be  funny to change the guest list and invite descendants of those who didn't  die in the fire years ago.  But how would the house know that Evelyn was  throwing a party?  And how exactly does a house send out invitations?  Even  if this made sense, the plot is never fully developed.  Why couldn't it  simply have been, Price makes a bet to see if they can stay for $1 million,  and then everything goes wrong?  Throwing in the undeveloped subplot just  ties down the action and suspense.  The idea of a husband and wife playing  at killing each other could have been done well, but it clashed with the  other plot concerning the haunted house.  We aren't supposed to know if the  house or Price or Evelyn is the one killing, but it's pretty obvious from  the get-go that the house isn't so innocent.  The fact that people were  killed there in a fire pretty much tells the audience that there's  something spooky going down.  Is it all some huge coincidence that the  house has invited strangers over at the same night Evelyn and Price are  toying with each other?  Now, most of these questions could have been  ignored with good characters or satisfying suspense sequences.  But most of  the characters are annoying or underdeveloped.  Chris Kattan's character  especially, with his abuse of sarcasm and timidness, irritated me.  Some  die before we ever get a chance to realize what they're all about.  The  final villain isn't frightening at all-instead, it looks like a big cloud  of dust.  And what is it supposed to be?  This is never explained, nor is  the relationship between the deaths and fire years ago with what's  happening now.  A couple of scenes are unintentionally funny.  When the  ghost of Chris Kattan appeared to save the day, I couldn't help but crack  up uncontrollably.  And when the "big ball of dust" or whatever it was  formed into the face of one of the first victims, it didn't work at all.  There are one or two good death sequences and a few surprising twists, but  they can't overcome the inanity of the overall film.  This is probably the  worst film of 1999.