There is no doubt that Kubrick is one of the greatest directors in history.  He made thirteen films, some of them huge critical successes, few had commercial success, most were loved by some and disliked by others, but, arguably, all of them had some great attribute.  That is where I would categorize "Full Metal Jacket".  Like most Kubrick films it is slow in pace, centers around few characters, pragmatic in tone, and presents Kubrick's misanthropic view.

  The film is sliced in half:  the first part taking place in Marine boot camp on Parris Island and the second in combat zones in Vietnam.  The film has a strange feel and doesn't make a good transition from the first segment to the second.  Pvt. Joker (Matthew Modine) is the major charactor in the film but has only a supporting role in the boot camp segment.

  Drill Instructor Hartman (played by R. Lee Ermey) is terrific as a hard-ass drill instructor complete with colorful profanity, driving his recruits to the limit.  While some of the focus is on Pvt. Joker, as well as the rest of the recruits, the focal point is on D.I. Hartman verbally pummelling Gomer Pyle (Vincent D'Onofrio), an overweight recruit who just can't hack it.  I would imagine that this is the most realistic portrayl of boot camp ever.  Just watching the first half of this movie is often enough to get my fill of Vietnam.

  The second half is much different from the first.  The man are no longer recruits, they are soldiers.  They have learned what they need to make it to combat and now they must merely survive.  As I said before, this part of the film is about Pvt. Joker, who is used by Kubrick to make a statement about war.  Joker tries to make sense of what is going on and what he can take from it.  He takes a cynical sometimes even sardonic view of life at war.  One of the more poignant moments in the film occurs when a Colonel questions Joker about having "Born to Kill" on his helmet and a peace sign on his vest.  His initial response is "I don't know sir."  Then it changes to "I think I was trying to say something about the duality of man."  And thats really Kubrick's motivation for making this film.

  Fans of Kubrick will want to see this film and will find some enjoyment in watching it.  They will not, however, find it to be as good as his earlier works.  Nor is this another "Platoon"; it is not a political film.  It is a film that wants to give a realistic picture of what it was to be a young man entering the military at a time of war, and what kind of man you were in war.