ATTILA is a must see for anyone who appreciates the great epics of by-gone years! My purchase of the USA Original movie ATTILA (2001) was because Gerard Butler portrayed the main character. I've come to know this man's ability as an actor on whom I rely to perform brilliantly. His rendering of the historical "Attila" was absolutely that plus more! Let me also add dazzling and radiant. "Attila" literally jumps from the screen. The first scene of "Attila" galloping across a large steppe on horseback is magnificent! The writer begins the scene with him as a youngster who as the frames continue grows into the splendid specimen of manhood, "Attila."  Regardless of Mr. Butler's captivating green eyes, the main character is "Attila the Hun" whom I saw! Gerard Butler did NOT appear ONCE in this movie! To me THAT is the mark of a GREAT ACTOR! You BECOME the character! Acting opposite him as the Roman "General Aetius" is another actor of great repute, Powers Boothe. It's a rare pleasure to feel the "air being sliced" in the performance between two fine actors as their characters square off against each other as friends as well as enemies! "Attila's" introduction to the city of Rome is all that the spectacle an entrance of two great leaders being hailed and adored by the citizens should be.

  Director Dick Lowry follows "Attila" with superb and fastidious detail from his days as a young warrior in Europe (circa mid 400's AD) through his rapid rise to power. Robert Cochran's script could have been translated to the big screen but I was glad that it had three hours rather than two to expand the story; not take away from it. The extra time gives more ability for all of the characters to interact. Tommy Flanagan (BRAVEHEART) is another actor who I look for in films. In ATTILA, he portrays "Attila's" older brother "Bleda." Their well orchestrated duel to the death from horseback over who shall rule the Hun Empire after "King Rua's" demise (Steven Berkoff) will in itself keep the viewer not only riveted to the set but re-running the scene over again and again!

  ATTILA is historically sound, well acted with performances also given by actors Tim Curry as "Theodosius," Simmone Jade MacKinnon as "N'Kara" and Reg Rogers as "Valentinian." USA Network's ATTILA deserves a five star rating!

  Janet Polk Molyneaux of Charlotte, North Carolina