Bought this as part of the 14 disc collectors edition, and found Superman 4 is now 86min, and NOT 89 min as seen in the cinemas-THIS IS EVEN WORSE!

However, the audio commentary by Mark Rosenthal is worth listening to, who explains the real reasons Superman 4 was below par and ultimately went down the bog pan. The deleted scenes are OK-some are quite hilariously cheesy and some OK and should never have been left on the carpet. The deleted scenes mount to only 30mins-so where are the remaining 15 mins to make up the full 134mins?

Only highlights:
Superb rendition of superman theme at start of film

Flying scenes of Supes and Lois

Last scene of Supes flying over Earth as sun is rising

Things about the Superman 4 film i thought:

Nuclear issues is an interesting idea that could and should have led to an excellent story

The morons who butchered 48mins from the intended 134mins of Superman 4 should never be allowed to make another Superman film. Of the many, many scenes that were cut, the overall plot seemed lack a lot of cohesion that were possibly essential in jelling together all the issues raised in this film. Thus, the final 86 min cut gave the impression of a rushed film. I mean jesus, what the hell happened? Superman 4 should well have been as good as Superman 1 and 2

Why throw nuclear missiles into the sun, why not just throw them into outer space and watch them spectacularly explode in a brilliant flash of light? Remenber the H-bomb in Superman 2 which was terrific?

Shouldn't nuclear man be chasing Superman if Luthor has instructed nuclearman to kill superman?

Superman's mortar vision used to rebuild the wall of china added to the cheesiness and silliness of this film-best to leave out this power

Superman should be fighting Lex Luthor rather than some dumb overgrown synthesized nuclearman

nuclearman grown from superman's genetic material should have the same intelligence as superman i.e. talk normally!

best to have a brutal and bloody fist fight between superman and nuclearman without them looking like overgrown kids in their action sequences

I guess with the new Donner cut of Superman 2 after 26 years, we should expect a new superman 4 entitled "Superman 4-The Quest for Peace:The Remake"!!! After 26 years i bet this will happen-It will be a cinematic first!