I was a big fan of the original Lost in Space television series. That TV Show will forever be a childhood icon of mine. So of course I was anxious to see the Movie version.I was very dissappointed with the movie version. (a) The story line was very complicated and difficult to comprehend and follow (b) The chemistry of the cast was NO WAY CLOSE TO THAT OF THE ORIGINAL CAST. The original cast were definitely born to play their roles in the TV Series--They were made for it!!! Unfortunately the cast of the movie version were very generic--they could of just been picked from a group of people at the mall that needed work. The Will boy looked like some random kid they found at some playground. I guess the best words to describe the movie cast is WOODEN and NO-CHEMISTRY.Every single person in the cast was a definite MIS-CAST...That new Doctor Smith was so far-off from the original Dr. Smith. John Robinson was WOODEN and unconvincing. Maureen lacked the motherly "Brady Bunch-like" charm and appeal. Lacey was TOO HOT for the Penney role (More on that later!), the New Don was too macho for his role, Judy was passable since she never had a big role in the tv series anyway. And Will was just too common and generic, any playground kid could of filled his shoes for that role.(c) I disliked the DARK MELODRAMATIC tone of the movie. The original series was light, bouncy, and fun!HOWEVER, I in 100% complete seriousness give this movie FIVE (5) STARS!!!This movie earns 5 stars because:(a) In addition to being a fan of the Lost in Space TV series, and even Science Fiction in general....I am a really big fan of hot young girls in movies.(b) Lacey Chabert who played "Penney" was just so unbelievably hot!!! I was totally captivated by the sound of her voice--it was such a unique style. I loved the way she looked in that tight mini-skirt and all the space-age fashions she wore in the movie. Her face was so cute and adorable. Her hair was so sexy the way it was black and stringy. She looked awesome in the tight space suit. She had such an incredible sexy demeanor about her. My favorite shots of her, were the close-ups when she was recording in her portable video diary. WOW!!! She looked so totally kissable to the extreme!!!The first time she appeared in the movie, I was under her spell and KNEW THAT I WOULD HAVE TO BUY THE DVD AS SOON AS IT CAME OUT!!!! I definitely wanted a copy of HER on DVD to watch over and over!!!(c) Since I already own both LOLITA movies (B&amp;W and Color versions), and BEAU-PERE....This Lost in Space movie with Lacey Chabert was a MUST HAVE! If it was not for Lacey Chabert, I would of rated the movie THREE (3) STARS!But since personal movie ratings are based upon PERSONAL tastes, and NOT the collective tastes of a group of people, I give the movie 5 stars since I am such a big fan of cute young movie actresses and LACEY CHABERT most certaintly was 90% of the reason I gladly paid for the DVD----and 100% of the reason I went to see Lost In Space at the movie theater 6 times!!!