Dying before you die--so you can live.

I loved this movie; been thinking about it since seeing it for the first time last night.

The story is simple.  An old guy, Felix Bush, in the backwoods of Tennessee goes shopping for his funeral a bit early, so he can be there to hear and enjoy the stories people have about who they think he is.  Reminds me of two important women in my life: St. Mary of Egypt and my mom.

St. Mary is a saint dear to Eastern Orthodox who at the end of the 4th century went off as a recluse into the wilderness for 40 years to work out her own salvation, having encountered spiritual warfare not unlike Felix Bush, played by Robert Duvall; who turns 80 this year.  In this film he also took on 40 years of St. Mary like contemplative solitude in order to process mistakes he'd made that hurt people.  That's the theme of this flick: salvation, redemption, soul work, forgiveness--what many of the ancients called remembrance of death.  That's what this movie is about, working through and getting accounts settled before you, well, get low.  Like six feet low.

My own mom did this, had her funeral early.  You can see my attraction to this plot line.  Rounding the last corner of her 16 years with breast cancer, she had a funeral party in Tucson, Arizona a decade back, electing to skip the funeral a year later with clear instructions.  Mom to kids: no obit, no service, not taking any calls, no visits allowed; a stranger will spread my ashes.  Sorry mom.  I held a service anyway.  Three people attended.  Heck, maybe the writers Chris Provenzano and C. Gaby Mitchell got their idea from you!

Director Aaron Schneider in 2009 pulled together Bill Murray, Sissy Spacek and Duvall to leave an experience that will stick with the viewer, doing impactful spiritual work, making us think.  This is what good movies and screenplays do.  They entertain, sure.  But they make us think.  And feel.  Already I want to watch this again, read about how and why the movie was made and why Duvall took on this role.  In a July, 2010 interview with Christianity Today, Duvall reveals his faith, why and how he played Felix Bush; and why he funded the 1997 project,  Apostle, where he plays a Pentecostal preacher in the south.

Yes.  Get low.  Watch this flick at ground level.  I recommend it.

....

Sources:

[...]