Very rarely does a sequel take the original idea of it's predecessor to the next level. TCM-2 does it in spades. Real horror and terror exist in this movie. It's an almost unstomachable onslaught. The First TCM shows us almost no graphic violence. Such is not the case with TCM-2. A bloody, horrifically violent masterpiece of fear and gore.  
The movie is made up almost entirely of set pieces.  From the Opening "On the bridge" murder of two college boys on vacation by Leatherface and his Vietnam Veteran brother to the operatic finale of madness featuring our Heroine, a local radio station DJ nick named Stretch (really, really well acted by Caroline Williams)  , the movie does not let up. The Radio station attack sequence is awesome. The introduction of leatherface during this sequence is astonishing and the whole sequence is a wonderfully crafted example of a movie deftly creating the boundries of reality and fantasy in which it exists. The Vietnam vets interaction with Stretch in this sequence (before all hell breaks loose) is goose bump inducing in it's creepiness. 
what makes this movie so scary is it's ability to make you feel like you would if all of this were happening to you. very rare in horror films, particularly of this day and age where we are treated more like observers than participants. Movies like Psycho, Rosmary's Baby, The Excorcist, Halloween and TCM-1 all do this. movies like scream (a good horror film), I Know what you did last summer ( a bad horror film)and the rest of the current offerings never put you in a postion of vulnerability and true danger. We are watching OTHER PEOPLE in danger. The experience between the two are wildly different. 
Be warned: this movie contains scenes of extremely offensive violence. particularly repulsive is Leatherface's "sex" act with Stretch at the radio station. It's almost unbearable in it's ferocity and tastelessness BUT this is not the vulger expressions of the filmmakers but of THE CHARACTER Leatherface. Even though nothing close to sex or intercourse takes place. this is how Leatherface has sex. In fact this is probably the closest he's ever come to an intimate relationship in his entire patholigically psychotic life. It's how he becomes bonded to our heroine. He actually falls in love with her.  We also learn of the resourcfullness of our Heroine. And because we experience the scene WITH her and not AT her we become bonded to her as well.  The scene serves an important function in the film to events that occur later. it is not gratuitous but it is disturbing. As is Leatherface. 
TCM 2 also does a wonderful job of painting the sick stars of the TCM universe "The Family". TCM2 elaborates on the  dysfunctions and dynamics of "the family" from the first film recalling Erskine Caldwell's darkly humored and desperate Jeeter family of Tobacco Road.  The family interaction and dialogue is hilarious and rings true. Seething with power plays, resentment,gossip, comraderie and support, the fact that these are homicidal maniacs of unparalled proportion doesn't change the fact that they ARE a family and like any family there are psychological dynamics that exist. These dynamics are wonderully on display here in TCM-2.  
  Dennis Hopper gives one of the performances of his career in TCM-2. His Texas ranger, Lefty, is one of his most sharply focused characters since since his Frank Booth performance of blue velvet. Sure it's over the top but it's also quiet and dense. 
  Lasting quotes abound in Hoppers character. Gems Like "Show me what I fear Lord, So I don't fear it no more" and "I'm bringing it Down! Bringing it all down!" get better with each viewing. Fascinating to watch as well is Lefty's descent into madness. Necessary as he prepares to do battle with the denizens of evil who thrive on the fear of their opponents.  
 What makes TCM-2, an almost unpalattable opera of horror, digestable is the crackling and truly funny humor laced through out the film. Similar structually to Bonnie and Clyde before it, intense horror and bloodshed is laced with absurd and bizarre humor. Lines like "Dog Will Hunt" (sampled by rock freaks Primus)have almost become cliche's without most of us knowing that it originates in this film.  
 There is definitely a line that has been drawn for this movie. Those that love it and those that hate it. I, personally, have yet to find someone that has seen it and doesn't love it. If you loved the first one i find it impossible that you wont adore this movie. If you hated the first one, you'll hate this one even more.