"The Stranger" is a very engaging film. Orson Welles courageously portrays a man that is so bad, that a War Crimes Commission allows another Nazi war criminal to "escape" from prison, in order that he will inadvertedly lead them to Welles. Naturally, once Welles is on to the idea that people are looking for him in Connecticutt, no less, he must kill all who dare expose him.

The supporting cast is great. Edward G. Robinson, who was famous for playing gangsters in Warner Brothers pictures in the 1930s and 1940s heroically plays a war crimes commission official closing in on the evil Nazi. Loretta Young gives a very good performance as a woman that marries Welles not knowing who he really is, or what he has done.

The film benefits from its temporal proximity to the end of World War II. In 1945 the horrors of the Nazi death camps were revealed to many for the first time, and the film came out in 1946. For this reason, the film carries an even stronger urgency for the forces of humanity to hold Nazi war criminals accountable for their wicked actions. Beyond that important quality, the movie is pure Film Noir. It looks great as characters move about in the shadows and speak in whispers while manifesting emotional pain, shock, and desperation. Ms Young is particularly good in expressing emotions.

Quite fascinating is the metaphor of Welles obsessed as a man interested in tinkering with clocks as a hobby. Naturally, such a man is obsessed with going forward, stopping the clock, or finding any way he can to alter time in his obsession to move away from the unspeakable crimes he had committed. Moreover, the large clock in the town symbolically serves as indicator that time may be running out for some in that town. Also, one can practically hear the "tick-tick'tick" each time Edward G. Robinson says something revealing that he is getting closer to learning the identity of the criminal he believes is hiding out in that American town.

As for the DVD itself, well, I have some criticism. This is supposed to be a restored film? If it was restored, then someone needs to go back to work on it some more. I think the sound quality is lacking, and the picture could used some additional digital restoration. It was not restored badly, it just needs more work accomplished. This film is too good to sell as a half-baked presentation. It is not as great as "Citizen Kane," of course, but the movie is ONE OF ORSON WELLES' BEST MOVIES. He deserves better treatment on DVD. Moreover, some people have claimed that there is original film footage missing from this DVD. I don't know for certain that there is, but if that is the case, then that is another problem that should be rectified in a future restored version of the movie (providing the footage still exists, naturally).

Still, if this is the only way available for people to see the film, then I recommend that people buy and see this version. For my part, I am awaiting a better restoration of "The Stranger" to become available before I say anything about "definitive" version. This DVD is much better than any scratchy print exhibited on the late show, but definitely does not meet the criterion of "superb" print.