If you're the average sci fi anime fan, you'll readily eat this up and want seconds.  The action sequences are awesome and the film is visually stunning.  However, if you're a more discerning animation fan, you'll appreciate the visual style of this film, but you'll also notice the shallowness of the story as well as the relatively weak execution of the actual "animation" involved.  People who aren't fans of sci-fi animation probably won't even be looking at this film in the first place.

Visually, this film has a lot of eye-candy.  The hyper real textures used in the mechanical objects and in much of the backgrounds are stunning and the cell-shaded characters are appealing.  However, some people may find the fact that they try to integrate both into this film at the same time a little distracting (most people will probably just take it in stride).

The story is nothing to rave about.  It's nothing more than your typical government/rebel faction conflict with one man/woman holding the key to ending it all premise- not exactly the meaning of life type fare.  Good for an afternoon of mindless entertainment, but not much worth coming back for.  Character development is rather thin (the characters seem to be more like anime stereotypes instead of individuals in their own right) so you don't find yourself really empathizing with any of the characters.  However, seeing as how this is a more action oriented film, that can be easily overlooked.  It's probably a good thing to remember that the manga (japanese comic) that this film is based off of was mainly targeted for teenage boys, so the story sensibility reflects that.

As for the actual animation itself, it's rather, for lack of a better word, stiff.  The characters move smoothly enough, but it appears as though the animators relied too much on their motion capture data to get these characters moving than actual animation.  Pure motion capture movements being performed by computer generated characters come off as looking rather odd.  We see motion that we associate with a real live human being being performed by what amounts to a cartoonists rendition of a human being.  It just draws unneccessary attention to the fact that the character moving onscreen isn't "real" (most apparent in the hands and the eyes - characters move about like they have GI Joe action figure hands and the eyes never appear to focus on anything - probably since these can't be motion captured and the animators never bothered to fix these individually).  This isn't apparent in the quicker action sequences where motion capture is actually a plus, but for the slower paced sequences, the characters look robotic or puppet-like.  There's also an almost complete absence of emotional facial expression from most of the "cast" (once again, probably because you aren't able to capture this data with motion capture equipment - one of the many weaknesses of this technique).  All we're given are a few smiles/frowns here and there and a few raised/lowered eyebrows.  It's like the entire population graduated from the Steven Segal school of acting (more likely, the animators felt the polish of the look of the film overall was more important than the actual "acting").  It's this specific sense of movement that motion capture causes that gives this the feel, as another reviewer stated, of a Capcom video game (many games rely exclusively on motion capture for their Full Motion Video sequences since it's faster and cheaper than actually animating them).  This may not be too much of a concern for most viewers and your average anime fan won't really care (it has flashy visuals and the action's great) but discerning fans of animation will undoubtably see past these superficial elements and notice that something is definitely off with how these characters move.

Another reviewer claimed that this film put Pixar's work to shame, but it's quite obvious it was the anime fan in him talking.  While this film is visually very pretty (and flashy to boot), Pixar's work has an overall quality that this film is still missing.  The story isn't as well developed as Pixar's films are and the overall animation quality of Pixar's films are light years ahead of what this film has to offer.  It's a step in the right direction for Japanese CG films, but it's not quite there yet.

All in all, it's a pretty, flashy, animated action film with lots of explosions and mayhem to draw your attention.  For the pure purpose of mindless entertainment, it gets the job done.  Just don't go into it expecting the next great film of the century because you'll be sorely disappointed.  Needless to say, hardcore anime fans will think this is the greatest thing EVER since this has what, sadly, most anime fans think makes great movies (characters with angst, flashy visuals, lots of action, and a psuedo-psychological explaination of what makes people human).  More discerning animation fans (or film fans in general) will see this as a pretty and flashy film but, all in all, rather shallow underneath (rudimentary "animation", minimal story/character development).  This film has a ton of eye-candy, but movies can only go so far on eye-candy alone.  It, unfortunately, is another case of style over substance.

EDIT: Added more to my review after viewing this movie again.