This is an outstanding  film. For us who are not Americans and for which Hollywood has fallen long, long time ago into a  idiocy-generating movie machine, it is exciting to see that still there are good American directors  with a full sense of what the movies should be and what mixed emotions the  movies should generate on the public. Another example would be Oliver  Stone.
 Tarantino was smart enough to reach new heights based on a very  stringent budget -watch out, "spielbergites/holywoodites"! - and  on a quite old, eroded theme: jewelry robbery.  How he did that? With a  very strong, attractive set of  dialogues, and with the help of a bunch of  very talented actors. Harvey Keitel, Tim Roth and Steve Buscemi are at  their best. The opening scene at the restaurant is superb, with smart and  fine irony. The scene on which Mr. Blonde is engaged on the  "project" is great. The scene on which names are given is also  great.
The guys who were laughing at the ear-cut scene -as stated by one  of your reviewers- are the very same ones that usually support the  Spielberg/Whoopie Goldberg/Beavis &amp; Butthead/Mel Gibson/Julia Roberts,  Hollywoodesque sort of "movies". Negative I.Q., anencephalia, and  lack of culture/formal education are what they have in common. In this  particular scene, when I first saw this movie back  in 1993, I was about to  leave the theater because of the quite strong cruelty depicted there.  I  remember saying to myself: Oh God, Please don't make him suffer any  longer! . But this is the reason why you go to the movie theaters: to feel,  to awe, to be terrified, amazed, liberated and even punished;  to be  transported to some other experiences you do not deal with on a daily  basis. And to think and rationalize what you have seen and try to figure  out why things are this or that way.
This particular scene would be  compared -just would- with the stroller and stairway scene on Battleship  Potemkin. You are in the edge of your seat waiting for the worst not to  happen, and indeed the worst happens!  Both scenes show how miserable the  human being sometimes is.
Languaje is plenty of f* words. Perhaps I'm not  very sensitive to that since I don't use to hear them or even use them down  here. But let me tell you that bad words in any languaje/country is what  you hear on the street, at the bus stop, on the subway etc. Just imagine  among thieves! . Tarantino is just not being hypocrite by using this kind  of languaje. 
And, in order to kill all the "spielbergesque"  happy endings, a real finale.
Definetely, one of the best American movies  ever made.
For those who didn't like it, please do not watch American  History X, Natural Born Killers, Full Metal Jacket, Clockwork Orange or any  other mind-challenging movie. Keep stuck into the traditional ones.