Being raised by my grandmother as much as my mother (and later, my aunt) meant that I got exposed to two different generations of entertainment; Grandma was a punk rocker and Mom was a classical violinist, you see, and . . .

Okay, not really. I learned about rock and roll and modern films from my mother, while my grandmother exposed me to classic cinema and the swing sounds of her 1940's heyday. And I have a lot of treasured memories from my childhood, moreso I think than some others my age, mostly because of that dichotomous upbringing.

One of my most treasured memories from that time is watching Singin' in the Rain, which, along with The Wizard of Oz, is one of the first movies I remember seeing. And of the two, Singin' in the Rain is by far more memorable, and touching, and full of the joy of life.
For the benefit of those who have been living under a rock for the last sixty or seventy years, Singin' is a musical about the coming of sound films to Hollywood, and it features Donald O'Connor, Debbie Reynolds, and Cyd Charisse-but its star is Gene Kelly, who in my opinion is the greatest dancer/choreographer who ever graced an American sound stage. Only Jerome Robbins, George Ballanchine, and Martha Graham did more than he did to modernize and Americanize dancing-and of them all, only Kelly brought his sensibilities to the screen before the majority of the country, and then the world. And Singin' in the Rain, which Kelly co-directed with Stanley Donen, is his crowning achievement.
The film centers around Don Lockwood (Kelly), silent movie star and one half of the team of Lockwood and Lamont-Lamont being Lena Lamont, played by the era's platinum blonde queen of ditz, Jean Hagen. The story is nominally a satire about how talking pictures changed the way film was made-but really, let's be honest. The story, as good as it is, and as funny as it is, is just an excuse to get to the superb song-and-dance numbers included here: "Ready for Love," the first of two fantastic pairings with O'Connor; "All I Do (Is Dream of You)," a showcase for then-unknown Debbie Reynolds; "Make `Em Laugh," O'Connor's delightful, hysterical showstopper; "Good Morning, Good Morning," a thrilling trio dance with Kelly, O'Connor, and Reynolds; and so many other moments, it's difficult to list them all here because it would literally take me hours-but here's a couple more anyway:
There's the "Moses" dance with O'Connor and Kelly, a driving, percussive swingtime number that showcases both dancers to the best of their abilities. Watching the two trading steps, as the music becomes faster and more manic, is truly thrilling. 
There's the "Broadway Ballet" sequence, the culmination of Kelly's dream-sequence ballets in films like On the Town and An American in Paris. It's an epiphany of dance, an exciting, sensual journey through the life and times of a Broadway hoofer that features exquisite art direction, cinematography that is every bit as well-choreographed as Kelly's dancing-and best of all, it has Cyd Charisse, with her scowling face and mile-long legs, in some of the most heartstoppingly gorgeous dancing I have ever seen in my life. The ballet climaxes the film in fantastic fashion-and does it so well, in fact, that the film's actual denouement seems almost anticlimactic.
Then there's "Singin' in the Rain" itself-a winning, classy, classic number, overbrimming with high spirits and Kelly's love of life. The sheer genius of Kelly, in the rain, with an umbrella, singing Arthur Freed's simple but elegant love song, twirling and splashing and spinning (and above all, smiling), gets me every time. There is a wonderful, childlike abandon in what Kelly achieves in this scene. Leonard Bernstein once called it "a reaffirmation of life," but it's more than that. In a way, "Singin' in the Rain" is life, the best part of life; its magnificence, its majesty, its magic, its humor and sadness, and the beauty there is to be found in the simplest things. That alone makes Singin' in the Rain worth watching . . . because in the end, that's everything, isn't it? I know for me it is; Gene Kelly at his best-and in this film he is not just at his best but at his peak-is an encapsulation of everything that is good in life.
Kelly himself said it best: "That's what you do up there. You dance love, and you dance joy . . . and you dance dreams." 
How can you go wrong with something that good?
Thanks, Grandma, for sharing it with me.