I bought the box set, expecting (like everyone else) a fast-paced gruelling workout.  I was most excited about Cardio Kickbox...and also most disappointed after the workout.

Negatives:
Too short of a workout

Always stopping between reps - cardio kickbox should have a constant flow, but Jillian would literally stop between EVERY exercise to explain the next one.  Meanwhile, everyone just STANDS around with their hands in their pockets.  I couldn't keep my heartrate up because she kept stopping.

No Combos - cardio kickbox should have combinations and should work arms and legs at the same time.  But when Jillian has you do a set of 10 side kicks, it's just 10 sick kicks.  There's a decent pause between kicks, long enough to throw in a good cross punch, but she doesn't bother.

"Fake" Exasperation: for some reason, Jillian spends the entire video acting like she's dying, like the workout is SO hard.  But it's not hard.  Not only that: who wants an exercise teacher that constantly WHINES about the level of difficulty?  Not me.  I want her to make it look easy, to inspire me to get to her level.  Instead, you end the session feeling duped into believing you had the toughest workout ever.

Positives:
To make the workout worthwhile, i suggest adding shuffle steps between all of her reps, and creating your own combos of kicks, knees, and punches to elevate the level of difficulty and maximize your workout.

Suggestions:
I would suggest that Jillian go to ANY local gym across the country and participate in a basic 50 minute "cardio kickboxing" class, so that maybe then she'll realize how sad her own video looks in comparison.

Recommended for:
someone who has never taken a cardio kickbox class before and doesn't realize that this is not it.

EDIT: I have tried her Front/Back discs and I would rate them at 4 stars.  They're fast-paced, challenging, and keep your heart rate up and your body sweating.  It's great to have a strength training workout that invovles cardio as well - I felt like I was working out for a lot longer than I was.  And you can modify it to be as hard as you want (with heavier weights).

I would still like to see a much longer workout though.  I hate how it seems like every workout video you buy today is less than 30 minutes.  What's the point?