I originally saw this on VHS ages ago (back before DVD), which was the original uncut version. An absolute riveting masterpiece to me at the time. I was watching it when I myself was sailing on a merchant vessel in the middle of the ocean and had plenty of time to kill, so I could some-what relate to the movie at the time I suppose.  Years and years later, I bought it on DVD for my collection, not realizing it was a different, shortened Director's Cut version. It just wasn't the same movie!

I think the editorial review at Amazon says it best when it compares the Directors cut/Un-cut versions of Das Boot with Saving Private Ryan/Band of Brothers.  Its the pace that sets the two versions apart, with the un-cut version seemingly unfolding in real time, and making you really feel what its like to be part of the crew. You feel the clausterphobia, and how tired you get of your shipmates faces, and the agonizing feeling of helplessness of getting blindly depth-charged. Really the true telling of a World War II epic of a submarine patrol! And the character development is lacking in the Director's cut version, as well as plot development. And we're not talking just a few outside shots of the submarine being edited out from the Director's cut, we're talking an hour and a half of the director's original vision gone!  Imagine taking an hour and a half out of another long-telling epic war movie, like Lawrence of Arabia, and boiling it down to just the more action-packed sequences. It wouldn't have been anywhere near the Best Picture oscar winner that it was! Its all those little, subtle things that all add up into making it fully what it is. (kinda random example, but hopefully helps to illustrate the point).  The Director's cut version of Das Boot is more of just a shallower action-flick, but admittedly is much more appealing to those with short attention spans.

But anyone who is into war movies, for their ultimate telling of the human condition in times of the most extreme psychological and physical conditions mankind can come up with, will appreciate the complexity of this full length version.  Those brave movie-goers that want to explore the depths and voyage into the misery, the insanity, the desperation, and the shear terror of war, will find the Un-cut version the ONLY version; and the Director's cut a much simpler, dumbing-down-of-america, crowd-pleasing type of movie.

When the original, un-cut version was finally released on DVD several years later, I rushed out and bought it THE VERY DAY it came out, and skipped work to go home and watch it.  Ah ya, baby, that's the good stuff.  Just what I had originally remembered, and what I had been jonesin' for since I was forced to settle with the inferior Director's cut version many years before.