My normal method for coercing myself to sleep when I have a headache is to watch a bad movie, then write a bad review, then hopefully be exhausted enough to drift off to dreamland.  Enter the Wrath of the Titans.  As it turned out, I didn't have to write a bad review in order to fall asleep: the movie was bad enough.  Still, some thoughts linger, mainly of how dreadful a movie it was.

***SPOILERS, PROBABLY***

Wrath of the Titans is one of those films which would not only have no reason to exist were it not for an astonishingly stupid decision made by the hero at the outset, but which is only kept going by a further series of stupid decisions.  Perseus is living a serene, godless existence as a fisherman.  Io (Gemma Arterton from the previous film) has died, leaving Perseus with a son, Helius, who is now a lad.  Zeus comes one evening to tell Perseus that, in the absence of human prayer, the gods' power is diminishing.  This includes the restraints Zeus placed on his father Kronos to keep him imprisoned in Tartarus.  Demons are already breaking free of the underworld to wreak havoc on mankind, but once Kronos escapes it will mean oblivion for gods and men.  Would Perseus please help?

"The world may be obliterated, but I promised my wife that I'd look after my son," is essentially Perseus's answer.  Consequences be damned, apparently.  Zeus smiles and vanishes.  Later that night, Perseus wakes up freaked out by a dream he had of the world ending.

Meanwhile, Zeus meets up with his brother Hades in the underworld.  Zeus's son Ares is also there.  While both are ostensibly present to help keep Kronos in Tartarus, they trap Zeus, whose power they will actually use to free Kronos, who will allow Hades and Ares to keep their immortality.  Why the double-cross?  Well, Hades still resents Zeus for giving him dominion over the underworld, and Ares resents Zeus for preferring Perseus over himself.  Mass destruction therefore makes sense.

Perseus changes his mind and goes on a quest with Queen Andromeda (who is even more useless than Perseus) to search for the entrance to Tartarus so he can free his father and defeat Kronos.  Along the way he runs into Hephaestus (played by Bill Nighy, who does that routine of his where he raises his eyebrow, leans forward, blinks, and then lurches back as if he's been spat on, which perhaps is meant to be visual comedy, and probably would have been had he not done it for {whats seems like} every film he's been in) who takes them to the entrance of Tartarus before he's stabbed by Ares, who is able to find them all because one of Andromeda's warriors prayed to him, even though she was quite explicitly told not to lest Ares discover her and kill her, which he does.

Anyways, after stumbling through a frustrating rubix-cube of a maze, the gang make it to Zeus.  Perseus attempts to free him.  It's hard going at first, but once Zeus tells him to believe in himself the manacles practically fall away.  Hades has a change of heart at the last minute, putting him at odds with Ares, who's still pissed off.  By now Kronos, a giant of volcanic rock and seething magma, has broken free.  But Ares still finds time to face off with Perseus in a temple atop a mountain, making Helius, whom he has kidnapped, watch the bizarrely erotic spectacle.  Perseus prevails, taking Zeus's thunderbolt (which Ares had stolen) and combining it with Hades's and Poseidon's tridents to form a mega-weapon that he shoves down Kronos throat, bringing on a cosmic bout of acid-reflux, thus annihilating the Titan.

Zeus, proud father of demi-god Perseus, crumbles to dust.  Hades does not crumble to dust but says his power is gone anyway.  Perseus gets over it all rather quickly, as evidenced by his putting the moves on Andromeda, who was an old flame of his after all.  It had been ambiguous when she first appeared, making for the only tension in this film.  A tension which was, in the end, worthless.

It seems Warner Bros. are contemplating a third Titans film, which is strange since they needn't have bothered with this one (or the one before).