I always hated the original films because I thought they were REALLY stupid. Well, after watching part 3, I didn't watch any more until part 8, which my friend dragged me too. It [was bad], to put it mildly. Then Jason Goes to Hell came out and I went and saw it with another friend. It was a whole new studio, and I had been impressed with the coverage offered by Fangoria and had been looking forawrd to it. There was maybe 10 people at the show. It was great and I was in love with Jason as a character, although I had wished he was in it more. Now, many years later, Jason X comes on the scene. This time I went with my girlfriend. Again, there was about 10 people at the show. We all LOVED it! We all laughed at the right times, particularly the whole last half hour. This is a sci-fi comedy with horror added as spice, not as a central element. Anyway, we all thoroughly enjoyed it and everyone applauded at the end, it was fantastic! So why did this movie bomb? Well, frankly I don't know. I thought it was spoofing Hellraiser: Bloodlines and Leprachaun in Space, but I think some people took this film seriously. This film was never meant to be taken seriously. When one character says "It's ok, he just wanted his machete back.", it's a joke people. That's not bad acting, that's not bad writing, it's a joke. A funny one at that.
That being said, I do have some complaints. First, the editing. This film was completed and on the shelf for 2 years, why couldn't they fix the editing?... Also, the score just stinks. I believe I read somewhere that they hired the guy from the first one to also score this one. Why? Cheesy sythesizers [were bad]then and they [are] even worse now. My girlfriend maintains that they are spoofing those old scores, but I found it annoying. It wouldn't be so bad except the trailer was pumping with cool heavy metal music and it was certainly missed here. I also didn't like the Tomb Raider inspired robo-chick. She can't act, she didn't really further the plot and her wise-cracks got old real fast. I can overlook all of this though because this movie just rocks! The effects are great, but the real hero is the story that doesn't pull any punches and just GOES FOR IT! The film ends pitch perfect and sets up for a sequel, although that's pretty doubtful. So it looks like Jason X is the swan song of the series. There's a chance it could come back if Jason Vs. Freddy gets off the ground and is successful, but I'll believe it when I see it. Short of that, Jason X is a good bookend to the series, and shows off what all these films could have produced with a little more tweaking and more time to develop the scripts. There was a Friday film almost every summer of the 80's!