Most movies are made to entertain. Even most indie/art films. They usually put an artistic twist on reality to provide escapism, even if it's dark escapism. Art imitating life. Wendy and Lucy is not this kind of film. This is nitty-gritty reality, warts and all... but it's well done.

Unless you have actually experienced the kind of loneliness, bad luck, and desperation that Michelle William's Wendy is dealing with in this film, then you may not get it. If you're expecting a happy-go-lucky road trip movie, then forget it. The movie clocks in at a whopping 1 hour, 20 minutes... and though the dialogue is sparse, the emotions run deep. If you've ever been desperate and had to make sacrifices in your life, at a time when you have had little experience in dealing with the "big, bad world", then this movie should make your eyes water. The Wendy character is flawed, as she should be in a movie this realistic. Her troubles are part bad luck, and part her own doing, but hey... that's youth. You were expecting an American kid with perfect decision-making skills? If you're one of those people who HAS to have a character to sympathize with in order to enjoy their story, then don't bother. Go watch a Disney movie instead. Without giving too much of the story away, let's just say if there were a lesson to be learned from this film, it's:

 "Never shoplift if you still have cash in your pocket".

Wendy and Lucy is also a profound portrayal of post-Bush America, though it is never made clear exactly how desperate Wendy's situation was at home in Indiana for her to subject herself to the extremes that she does. Still, the callous behavior of the grocery store staff and the town police are all too accurate an assessment of the modern American mindset.

Bottom line: This movie is an excellent slice of present-day American life, but it almost plays out more as an un-narrated documentary than a movie. In my opinion a very well done indie film, very unpretentious and realistic... but it may leave a few viewers feeling flat if they've never experienced what the movie's main character is going through.