I.
Some note how the movie was meant to be a parody on vampire movies (more specifically the Hammer Horror series). If it is, it possesses too high of a quality to be a simple parody. Even though the movie tries its hand at slapstick, it's not what lingers. What stays in mind is the acting, the scenery, the direction and the atmosphere. Neither funny nor scary, the movie is an even mix of haunting ambients and warm settings. The overall mood is strikingly good, the camera work is stunning and just the feeling of watching something old gives you pleasure. Polanski is a mastermind, obviously, and he uses all the advantages of his time to push boundaries and manages to impress with work that's powerful all the way through. Everything from lightening to music is masterfully executed. The movie takes some time to take off, but when it finally does, you don't mind spending as much time as you did watching it.

II.
The acting makes for a very convincing movie. Polanski is great as a mousy apprentice in love with a maiden played by the especially enthralling Sharon Tate, who looks good in bath, as we've witnessed in the film, twice. Ferdy Mayne, with his piercing German accent, does a good job playing Count von Krolock. The characters are very dissimilar to each other: Tate is graceful, playful and sexy, Polanski is frightened and quiet, MacGowran is brave, cooky and determined, Quarrier is unpleasantly spooky and Mayne makes his presence felt in every scene, which is always welcome for the main villain.

III.
The movie manages to thrill, mesmerize, stun, daunt and please, making it a magical experience for the viewer. The only problem is that an average viewer wants a genre classification that will, I suppose, set the right mood and awake the right emotions. Considering how average viewers go, this should be a disappointing piece of work. The trick is to forget about what it's supposed to be -- as well as what you want it to be -- and enjoy it for what it is.

Maybe there's a harpsichord loving person inside of you who will get enchanted by snowy landscapes, rich sets and playful dialogue, as well as a sense of quirkiness that bubbles around the surface. The movie may surprise you, if you give it a proper chance. One thing is certain: it won't leave you indifferent.