This movie was totally new to me.  I found it in a video store and bought it because I was looking for a horror movie I hadn't seen and because Paget Brewster was in it.  Unlike most movies, I didn't research it before watching it.  I hoped I'd stumbled onto some overlooked indie gem.

Unfortunately, not the case. I can't find many good things to say about this one.  I'm not even sure I got the point, and an hour into it I really didn't care anymore.  The horror genre is in serious trouble these days and films like this are not helping.  In these times of terrible remakes, even worse imitations, and stars who can in some cases barely even be called actors, horror needs to be original and tread new ground, while still incorporating the tried and true cinematic devices of days gone by.  This film has an original idea (that's only assuming I correctly understood the message as being the corruption and incompetence of the medical profession and the complacence of those in charge of it), but did nothing outstanding with that idea.  It just meanders along for 117 minutes, tossing in everything from anti-racism tirades to internet streaming documentary-style footage of weird South American medical procedures ala Cannibal Holocaust.

I'm not sure who the target audience is supposed to be.  The gore scenes looked as if they were aimed at those who like so-called "torture porn" but I doubt there is enough gore to please that crowd.  It wasn't paced fast enough and had far too little action to please lovers of slasher films or conspiracy films.  And, it's too cryptic and ambiguous to please those looking for a thinking man's horror film (which is what I really think it IS purporting to be).

Paget Brewster is totally wasted in this piece of grunge.  She has maybe 8 minutes of actual screen time.  I realize she wasn't top-billed, but she is the only well-known person in the movie (unless you count John Rubinstein who also doesn't do much here).  You don't even get to see her except in the background.  I just think that when attractive people like this are cast in films like this, they should be made better use of.  She's the type you'd like to see as a lead, not a part of the background.  Hell, she doesn't even get to play a victim here!

I can't really recommend this movie to anyone.  The cover art is more titillating than anything in the movie, and that interesting tree tattoo doesn't even figure into the story very much.  It's on the cute nurse's back, but has no other meaning.  She calls it the Tree of Life, but why?  This entire film is just dull and boring.  No other way to describe it.

A word of warning: don't let junk like this deter you from checking out independent films, or you might end up missing something really good, like 2002's "MAY."  Now THAT was a respectable piece of independent film-making.

And if you want to see a good medical conspiracy movie, "Coma" still packs a punch even though it is 30 or so years old.