What I've always loved about The L Word since Season One is it's lack of fear to deliver reality into fictional drama. What we see in this show is what really happen in the lives of gay, lesbian, straight, bisexual and transgender communities all over the world. It's gritty, it's sexy, it's hardcore and above all it's SCANDALOUS!!

The L Word Season 4 delivers interesting plotlines for existing characters and new characters alike, some good, some bad and some indifferent - depending who you ask. As an avid drama fan, I have to say that out of every show I have ever watched - and I mean EVER - I have taken to the dimensions of Shane the most. And this year I was not disappointed by her development. Last year ended difficult for her, but Shane fans - this seasons for you!! Not only does she recover from having to make a distressing decision, and dealing with her father's deception, Shane finds herself falling back into old ways with a fab season four cameo for Cheri Jaffe. Then life falls on it's head when she's suddenly a single parent in WeHo with expenses. Shane shines this year guys - Kate Moeenig deserves an Emmy for her portrayal of a REAL person.

After saying a tearful goodbye to Dana, it's been nice to see Alice come on strides, using the new characters of Papi and Tasha as her catalysts, and of course Bette and Tina fans - you may have to hang tight for resolve, but I suggest you come along for the ride. Helena also dabbles beyond her own comfort zone of riches with some interesting storylines, and to be honest the only annoying character - yet comical - is Jenny. But she is an artists or a writers dream - agonising yet fabulous. Max really impressed me this year after leaving it a little flat at the end of the last season - all credit to the actress. And who can forget to mention the inclusion of the fabulous Cybill Shephard who is AMAZING in this role and I cannot wait to see more of her in further seasons.

Overall - A perfect show that gets better every year. Just when you think the writers can do no more. Certainly the sexiest and most scandalous season so far - with Papi doing her best to test the reaches of Our Chart...but I just love how Shane could even care less.