Bang-on-target sci-fi send-up, which works wonderfully as both a witty urine extraction of Star Trek cliches, conventions and its scary fan-base, as well a fabulousy original twist on musty space opera secenarios. Even if you're not a prone to dressing up in blue spandex, talking into your electric shaver and pretending your Twister mat is some sort of transportation device, you'll be thoroughly entertained by this classy cosmic comedy.
The crew of NSEA Protector spent four successful seasons from 1979-1982, boldy going etc. Nowadays, TV Actors Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen), Gwen DeMarco (Sigourney Weaver), Alexander Dayne (Alan Rickman), Guy Fleegman (Tony Shalhoub) and Tommy Webber (Daryl Mitchell), are reduced to opening stores and receiving the adoration of Galaxy Quest enthusiasts at their yearly convention. The cynical Nesmith's used to being approached by fans in full alien regalia, so when a bunch of Thermians from the Klatu Nebula ask desperately for his help, he naturally assumes it's some sort of promotional appearance and agrees to tag along. Once he realises that this is for real and the aliens believe Galaxy Quest to be a 'historical document' of life on board a spacecraft, Nesmith enlists the rest of the jaded actors to fight off the unpleasant Roth'h' ar Sarros of Fatu-Krey. And they'll need the performance of a lifetime to pull this one off...
A mouth-watering premise, given full justice by an excellent script that leaves no Star Trek stone unturned, skilfully subverting every sci-fi cliche imaginable. Intelligent plotting, too, as various disposable plot-points resurface satisfyingly in the movie's action packed latter stages. The cast are clearly having a marvellous time, each raising their roles above mere caricature. Their great screen chemistry, fantastic one-liners and perfect balance of knowing silliness and straight-faced seriousness make for a memorable and highly engaging comic adventure.
Clearly, the makers of Galaxy Quest have set their sights on creating a satirical sci-fi spectacular that will appeal to audiences right across the board. They've succeeded.