When I first read this book,
I was just a tot. So,
I decided to see the movie -
And I liked it quite a lot!

I'll try to keep this short,
but I can't make promises here.
The movie is too great,
your children should not fear.

I know this book;
I can tell you the tale,
and here is that story,
in some minor detail:

The mayor gathers everyone
in town square
But Horton can't tell them -
he's really there.
All of the Who's and Who-ville
are unlike you and me,
They are people whom
we cannot see.

Of course, no one believes Horton,
which is sad -
the Kangaroo is making sure
that it will all go bad,
the animals rally around the kangaroo,
and they would say,
"We don't want Horton in the forest,
at all, to stay."

Horton's an elephant,
living in what we call "our world".
In the jungle of Nool there are animals,
young and old.
Who-Ville is on a flower,
and in it are all the Who.
No one can hear them but Horton,
but still, could you?

A great story, of course,
and as bad it is to say,
such examples of Kangaroos
can be found today.

I love this quote,
when Horton is about to fall,
He shouts, "A person's a person,
no matter how small!".

You should go see this movie,
I'm not afraid to tell,
the acting is great, the animation
is flawless, as well.
I won't ruin the movie,
but let me quote you this now,
although it's not in the book,
it sums up my review; how?

"I meant what I said,
and I said what I meant.
An elephant's faithful,
one hundred percent!"

Update 9/11/2012: A few people have e-mailed me asking where I got this, why doesn't it rhyme properly sometimes, etc.  I actually wrote this back in high school after we were required to imagine a Dr. Seuss book as a movie and write a review on it. The quote "I meant what I said and I said what I meant," is actually from the book "Horton Hatches an Egg" by Dr. Seuss.  It was by pure luck that this quote is in the movie, so I kept it in.  I wrote this.  Sorry it doesn't rhyme sometimes!  And, for those curious, I received an A on this project in high school, as my review was the only one that rhymed.