This is a character driven movie about the relationship between two people: The Queen of England, icon of her age, the widowed Queen Victoria (Dame Judy Dench) and Mr John Brown (Billy Connolly). For lack of an official title, Mr. Brown would become a general factotum combining  a number of personal functions while in his queen's service.

As this review will indicate there are problems with this movie. Dame Dench and Mr. Connolly present beautiful performances. Beautiful best describes the highland scenery and castle interiors, the attention to costuming and the general viewing experience of Her Majesty, Mrs. Brown. Hence the four stars.

If you are a fan of the small movie, of costume drama based on history and/or British royalty you will want this movie; my concerns aside. Likely you will want to own this movie rather than rent or instant view it. I still cannot leave behind my questions.

Having raised the issue of Mr. Brown's official title...  He had originally served as Prince Albert's ghillie, or Highland Scot for fishing guide and manservant.

Because he had been trusted by Prince Albert, the widowed, grieving and no longer young Queen would admit him into the very small circle she allowed to attend her in her grief.  Over time their relationship would become close and constant as to cause a scandal. This scandal would also be a part of a constitutional crisis that would arise questioning the need for royalty given the queen's near total withdrawal from public affairs.  The relationship is the plot of this movie. The political issue its' back drop. The scandal is made mention and otherwise not important to the movie.

Throughout her performance, Dame Dench moves across emotional states with her natural fluidity. She portrays a very self aware queen whose dignity will allow no presumption. Instantly she can call up the grief of Victoria and go straight into her role as the matriarch of an important family. Her performance is sufficient reward for selecting this move.

Mr. Connolly's Mr. Brown is more of a puzzle. His acting is worth watching. I just do not get who Mr. Brown is, or what drove him or ...more on this to follow. Movie editing and the script never explain how he got past the queen's emotional armor. At first she is leery and her retainers closely observant. Then suddenly she is galloping over wild highland hillside. How did this happen?

The CD jacket exclaims: "Her forbidden passion!" Except that this movie makes no case for or against the rumors. He is arrogant among the servants (his nominal peers), and physically handles a craven prince royal. How does he believe that these things are allowed? He is a gentle man, a drunkard and at the end a possible paranoid. Why does he think his Queens life is at risk?

Virtual all of the rest of the cast serves as back drop. The politicians are all vaguely unpleasant (the queen's attitude toward Prime Minister Disraeli may have been coldly correct in her early years, but the evidence would suggest that she would come to respect him) The place courtiers are not folks with whom you would sequester yourself. The Royal family is portrayed as an undistinguished and interchangeable; hardly worth getting to know as individuals.

The writing, directing and general flow of this movie argue for three stars, I don't hate these aspects, but they keep this from being a five-star gem.