I don't even know where to begin with this truly classic collection.  Featuring nine Universal films from the 1950s (plus one out of place Paramount film from 1940), included on the set are some of my favorite 50s Sci-Fi/Horror films.

Tarantula (1955, 5 stars) follows a small town doctor, his atomic research scientist girlfriend, and a giant tarantula.  Surpassed only by AIP's Earth vs. the Spider in the giant arachnid genre, the film features a brief early cameo by Clint Eastwood.

Even more impressive is The Deadly Mantis (1957, 5 stars), which along with Warner Brothers' Them, is one of my two favorite giant insect films of all time.  The Deadly Mantis features a giant prehistoric relative of the common praying mantis going up against the US military and a paleontologist.

Neither Tarantula nor The Deadly Mantis is the traditional Atomic Age monster fare, though both feature giant monsters neither was the result of an atomic weapon.  In fact, the only film in the collection to feature an atomic "menace" is The Incredible Shrinking Man (1957, 4 stars), directed by Jack Arnold from Richard Matheson's book The Shrinking Man, in which a radioactive mist causes a businessman to slowly shrink into nothingness.

Other noteworthy offerings on the collection include The Mole People (1956, 3 stars) a sci-fi jaunt about an underground civilization; The Land That Time Forgot rip-off The Land Unknown (1957, 3 stars); The Monolith Monsters (1957, 4 stars), about rocks that grow when in contact with water.

While not the worst film on the collection, that honor goes to Jack Arnold's Monster on the Campus (1958, 2 stars, but kinda fun), Paramount's Dr. Cyclops (1940, 3 stars) is the sets true letdown.  It simply feels wrong for the collection.  Despite being the oldest film on the set (fifteen years older than the next oldest), it is the only color entry.  It also falls short of the usual level of fun expected from Universal's films.  Its spot would have be better filled by something from Universal's own cannon, 1955's <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000FVQLKW">This Island Earth</a> perhaps.

Rounding out the collection are two weaker entries Cult of the Cobra (1955, 3 stars) and The Leech Woman (1959, 3 stars).

Noteworthy actors to appear on this collection include Eastwood, Richard Long, Jack Kelly (Bart Maverick), scream queen Gloria Talbott, Troy Donahue, Grant Williams, Hugh Beaumont (Leave it to Beaver's Ward Cleaver), Faith Domergue, David Janssen, John Agar, Universal regular Nestor Paiva, Leo G. Carroll, Paul L. Smith, and Alan Napier (Alfred from Batman).  Also, Orson Wells narrates the trailer for The Incredible Shrinking Man but does not appear in the film.

The set is light on special features, containing trailers for all 10 films but nothing else.  Perhaps the Universal Legacy collection was just spoiled me, but I would have loved to see a documentary or two and commentaries on at least the bigger films (Incredible Shrinking Man, Tarantula, Deadly Mantis).  Overall, the set pulls passed its shortcomings to be a treasured addition to my collection.