I remember watching my first ECW Match and having my jaw dropping straight to the floor and since then I have been hooked. When ECW went bankrupt it was not only the saddest day of my life but wrestling in general has never been the same. I do agree there is good wrestling out there with such promotions like Combat Zone Wrestling, Chikara Pro Wrestling or Ring of Honor and others lik the IWS in montreal or the occasional TNA Wrestling Match. But ECW was something special, with the best wrestling, best interviews, most hardcore action you will ever see and the in your face unpredictable action that the WWE couldn't pull off if they tried. With the WWE buying all the rights to ECW I was very happy to learn that they would  be putting out a documentry about the company to give back to the fans. Right away i went to the store and picked this one up.

This is one the best Documentries the WWE has ever made, showcasing the company in its struggle to keep open and how they triumphed to be a contender in the wrestling wars. ECW showcased such stars as Chris Jericho, Two Cold Scorpio, Ron Simmons, Tazz, Sabu, Raven, Chris Beniot, Stone Cold Steve Austin and many others. They cover every point, every struggle, every classic moment that made ECW a top contender. From when the company made the transition from Eastern Championship Wrestling to the Extreme style that started it all. It shows the creative mind of Paul Heyman in full detail and how he changed the wrestling world forever. The downside of the DVD that isn't really even a big downside, is the lack of great matches that could have been put on here to really show new fans of the company the true reason why the company is special. Matches like Stairway to Hell between Sandman and Sabu, or The Double Jeopardy Match with Tommy Dreamer and Sandman vs. Stevie Richards and Brian Lee where Tommy goes through 4 Stacked Tables!!!!, Or Even Sabu And Rob Van Dam vs. Hakushi and Hayabusa. But the match Selection does do injustice and comes with enough commentary to keeps fans intrested. The matches are...

The Pit Bulls vs. Raven & Stevie Richards (2 out of 3 falls Double Dog Collar Match)- Great Match with appearances by Tommy Dreamer, 911 and all the Dudleys. Raven almost gets decapitaded when his head bounces off the side of a table. 5/5

Rey Misterio Jr. vs. Psicosis - Another Great match with lots of high flying that only the lucha-libre can pull off. 5/5

Mikey Whipwreck vs. The Sandman (Ladder Match) - Steve Austin makes an appearance and the match is not that bad. 4/5

2 Cold Scorpio vs. Sabu - Hardcore Mayhem as only ECW could deliever as both men pull off insane high flying moves that makes the match a classic. 5/5

Tommy Dreamer vs. Raven - Lots of Story behind this match as Tommy Dreamer's search is ended after finally pinning Raven. Lots of run in's but hardcore madness at its finist. 4/5

Tazz vs. Bam Bam Bigelow - Kinda a slow match but some crazy bumps. Tazz's commentary even shows hows intense the match is. I think without it the match wouldn't be the same. Match ends with the most shocking moment as Tazz and Bam Bam both go through the ring. 4/5

Rob Van Dam vs. Jerry Lynn - One of RVD's best matches and I believe was voted best match of the year when the match happened. When these two guys get together it a great match and this match shows that. 5/5

If you are a fan of ECW for years or new to the company, buying this DVD would be a great addition to your DVD library. I highly Recommend it and long live Extreme Championship Wrestling!! E-C-W...E-E-W...E-C-W!!!!!