It's hard to make a good football movie(see Any Given Sunday) anymore.  But they pulled it off here by going unconventional.  
First of all, yes this is lightweight in terms of plot.  We've seen it before(Major League), but when it's done right, as this is, it's a thoroughly entertaining flick.  The main character, Shane Falco, gets a 2nd chance at a career cut short, and you know in the end it will have a relatively happy ending.  But how they got there was so much fun, I've re-watched the movie half a dozen times.  It's the perfect party movie if there's not a real football game on.  
What stands out to me is the absolutely side-splitting humor throughout the film.  Too often, the comedy is only in the first 20 minutes of a film like this, and then they think they have to be serious to tell a good story.  This movie, in large part due to the supporting cast, provides the viewer with laughs throughout the ENTIRE film, without going so crazily slapstick that the story(light as it may be) is lost.  
Keanu Reeves plays the "straight man" in this one, while John Favreau, Orlando Jones, and Rhys Ifans get to really showcase their comedic side.  But the 2 funniest scenes in the movie belong to the cheerleaders.  The tryouts had me on the floor with tears in my eyes, and the game against Detroit...well I don't want to spoil it.  Orlando Jones is one of the rare breed of actors who can act as much with his facial expressions as with his dialogue and movements, and he gets to play it up big time here.  Favreau gets to over-act in several scenes and you know he had a blast with it.  Ifans is just a blast to watch on screen, and is another of those "facial" actors.  
And I forgot to mention the bar scene with the deaf kid and the cheerleader.  Priceless.  
To sum up, I highly recommend this movie.  The football scenes look real, and in the "making of" feature, we learn that Reeves actually trained for the part to learn how a quarterback moves and throws so he wouldn't need a stand in for the on-field scenes.  He did quite well I thought.  So, if you like football, get this movie; if you like comedies, get this movie.  And I didn't even mention the legendary Gene Hackman, did I?  That should tell you all you need to know.