A few years ago I approached Coppola's "Dracula" in a mood of indifference mixed with skepticism.  Remembering Hammer Studios final, rather mediocre Dracula films, unable to forget Paul Morrisey's travesty of a film, and dissatisfied by Frank Langella's interpretation of the vampire Count--I expected Coppola's "Dracula" to be mildly entertaining at best.  Thus I sighed, slipped the borrowed disc into my machine, sighed once more--and 130 minutes later I started breathing again!  Coppola's "Dracula" is truly spellbinding, breathtaking.  The very first moments of the film were surprising: the musical score's harsh, Balkan rhythms, the sight of wind-driven mists over the dome of St. Sophia's, the fine narration of the Turks' 15th century conquest of Constantinople, a heavy cross thrown down and shattering on a cobblestone pavement: such is beautiful film-making.  That such visionary intensity could be sustained the entire length of the film--miraculous!
  In practically every respect the film seems unprecedented--paradoxically because it adheres to the spirit, if not the letter, of the original 1898 novel.  Only the conclusion deviates significantly from Bram Stoker's book.  Nevertheless the cinematic ending remains quite effective: passionate, violent, Romantic--epithets that can be applied to the entire film as well.  But there's one more word that seems equally fitting: "grandeur."  "Dracula" has a truly epic scope: it begins with medieval armies contending for the possession of Europe; it spans centuries of implied supernatural warfare; it concludes among the incredible fortified mountains and precipices that seem to overlook the edge of this world...
  While such visuals are stunning, they never diminish one's interest in the principal characters.  Gary Oldman's portrayal of Dracula is both flawless and original.  Less a monster than a tragic hero, he suffers a centuries-old torment of lost love.  At the same time he is painfully aware of his own monstrosity--apparently inflicted for the understandable sin of cursing God!  Anthony Hopkins is likewise impressive as Van Helsing--eccentric to the point of mania (as are many geniuses), yet formidable in every respect.  Wynona Ryder is appropriately cool and beautiful as Dracula's reincarnated love.  She is upstaged, however, by Sadie Frost's incredibly sexy interpretation of Lucy Westenra, the aristocratic Victorian dream-girl transformed by Dracula into a Victorian nightmare.  Incidentally, I am astonished that Mistress Frost has yet to be recognized as a major horror film Icon.
  All in all, Coppola's "Dracula" is one of those rare films that one can seriously compare to the best work of certain European directors--men like Mario Bava, Dario Argento, Jean Rollin, Jess Franco.  In the horror film universe that constitutes the highest possible praise.