I'm almost ashamed to admit how much I love Michael Mann's movies.  I've read many reviews that complain of their being "technology-obsessed" and a triumph of style over substance.  In fact, I've always thought his movies were extremely smart, mostly having to do with the dark side of personal freedom and individualism.  "Heat" is perhaps the sleekest example of this motif, and it is also one of his finest movies.  
Centered around the confrontation between a world-class bank robber Neil (Deniro) and his pursuer, an equally world-class policeman Vincent (Pacino), the plot seems familiar.  But Mann cleverly alternates between stunning action sequences (most notably, a climactic bank robbery that goes very, very bad) and more somber scenes portraying the disastrous personal lives of the main characters.  Much time is spent detailing Vincent's disintegrating marriage (to the radiant Diane Venora, who also did fine work in Mann's "The Insider"), while also following the budding romance between Neil and a young shop clerk (the equally radiant Amy Brennerman).  Both relationships are doomed, of course, but they are rendered with a surprising depth and soulfulness that elevates the picture.  And the parallel between Neil and Vincent, while none-too-original, takes on a resonance that is almost mesmerizing, especially in the famous diner scene where they finally meet face-to-face.  In this moment, both characters seem to really learn something about each other (and about themselves).  It's a standard crime melodrama, but brilliantly done.

Much was made of the dream-team casting of Pacino and Deniro, and both men give stellar performances in their own varying styles.  But Deniro's seems the finer of the two, in part because his role seems closer to Mann's directorial obsessions, and also to Deniro's own past work.  In many ways, Neil is just another extension of Deniro's famous loner-roles (i.e., "Taxi Driver" and "The Deer Hunter"), men so hyper-macho that they live shadow-existences.  (One of the film's nicer touches is Neil's house, a georgous beachfront model that he inhabits alone and with no furniture--a sharp metaphor for his lavish but ultimately hollow life.)  Indeed, the film seems a long, violent meditation on the price of individualism, both in personal and social terms.  (Neil and his crew kill so many innocent people that I lost count.)  Whichever way you interpret it, though, "Heat" is an undeniably masterful film.