The story begins with the anticipation the second to last adaption of the Twilight Saga will most likely be the best yet, due to its excessive advertisement and eager fan base. I, as a fan of The Twilight Saga, was also eager.

The film accurately portrayed several vital portions of the book, but appeared to be cut short. Given to be a short 1 hour and 48 minutes, it almost sparks the question as to why they cut the movie into two parts in the first place, whereas they easily could have made a good 2 hour and 45 minute film and the fan base would've been more than happy. You are left wanting more, but take into realization some parts could've certainly been extended.

For example, the honeymoon. There was a lot of hype about the "raunchy sex scene" between Bella and Edward, but essentially, it could have been much more than the few scenes showed. I am not saying that it should've come out to be a pornographic X rated film, but it should've certainly been lengthier, and Bella was meant to be bruised much more than the two bruises shown.

Bella being eaten away by the baby took up half of the film, however, it didn't appear to be as brutal or lengthy as intended. Her visions of "EJ" were not as vivid and it was not elaborated all too well. They did not show enough of the storyline in itself, where they could've definitely added more visits from Jacob, more anger from Edward and more overall Cullen anxiety. Rosalie did not appear to be as overprotective as the text read and Jacob's new pack was scarcely a part of the story line in itself, which was a bit of a let down.

Now, I am not bashing the film, because I, being an active member of the Twihard fanbase, loved the movie regardless of a few key points that I felt could've been added, but even if you love the stories as much as I do, you have to take a moment to admit that the bit in which the wolves are hearing one another's thoughts whilst having a beat down brawl, included with snarls and a poor excuse for what seemed like a children's movie, was all a little too much and a little too ridiculous. I almost wondered if Bill Condon made it as a joke. Of course he didn't, but it felt that way, and I couldn't help but laugh... That and the poorly animated baby was also a let down, and the vision of Jacob's imprint was just a little creepy.

However, the wedding was beautiful and the birthing scene (though could have been extended) was as brutal as the fan base wanted it to be.

Overall, it was a very well done portrayal of the book and it proved that Kristen Stewart actually has acting talent, which many decline. I have always known so, but I was grateful that others could appreciate her talents as well. Among that, the cast was all wonderful, as usual, and it was very tastefully done.