Wedding Crashers is the story of John (Owen Wilson) and Jeremy (Vince Vaughn), who work as arbitrators, mediating in difficult divorce cases.  Each year these two lifelong best friends take the month of June off to infiltrate weddings of every description.

John and Jeremy are natural born shape-shifters, adapting to any circumstance.  Armed only with vast quantities of bravado and an ethnically appropriate back-story, these guys are in search of an endless party and beautiful women.  As a woman, I felt I should probably be offended on behalf of my sex at their "let's get in, seduce a lot of women and get out" mentality.  However, they are so likeable and their tactics are so over-the-top and so shamelessly manipulative, you just can't help laughing.  They are also the life of any party.  Dancing with the flower girls, tying balloon animals for the kids and schmoozing with the elderly guests, they are also the first ones up for a vigorous hora or polka, pulling the more reticent guests up with them as they go.

As the wedding season closes out, John starts to lose some of his enthusiasm for the enterprise.  These "one afternoon stands" are a bit like only eating dessert - it might sound really good on paper but it will leave you feeling pretty lousy after a while.  He's also beginning to feel that they are a little too old to be doing this sort of thing.  Jeremy soon convinces John to crash just one more wedding - the wedding of the daughter of U.S. Treasury Secretary, William Cleary (Christopher Walken).

Posing as venture capital high-rollers, John and Jeremy sneak past the Secret Service. John is immediately attracted to Claire (Rachel McAdams), one of the bride's sisters.  Saving her from an embarrassingly dismal wedding toast, the two immediately click, but bad timing in the arrival of Sack (Bradley Cooper), Claire's ivy league, horse's rump of a boyfriend, prevent them from getting better acquainted.

Jeremy meanwhile more than meets his match in the form of the bride's other sister, Gloria (the delightfully demented Isla Fisher).  After closing the deal (ahem) with Gloria, Jeremy finds himself unable to shake her off.  Jeremy describes her to John as "completely off the reservation" and he's not wrong.  She is the poster child for clingy and inappropriate behavior.  It is interesting to see the 6'5" Vaughn equally attracted to and afraid of this tiny woman.

Jeremy is able to wangle a weekend invitation to the Cleary estate for John to spend more time with the woman of his dreams.  The Cleary Clan are one strange bunch:  a racist elderly matriarch, Grandma Mary Cleary (Ellen Albertini Dow), Secretary Cleary's sexually inappropriate wife, Kathleen (Jane Seymour), and his wound-way-too-tight artistic son, Todd (Keir O'Donnell).

John and Jeremy survive a game of homicidal touch football and one of the more wildly loony dinner parties ever put on film.  You have to admire Jeremy.  He is ready to leave almost immediately and endures the brunt of the Cleary Clan's unwholesome attention, but he hangs in there for his friend.  After suffering a series of late night, unwelcome and increasingly abusive visits from the various deranged Cleary family members, Vaughn's hyper-verbal panic attacks are some of the funniest scenes in the movie.

Others have covered in great detail the lowbrow nature of the comedy.  It is very politically incorrect.  It may have you rolling your eyes or even groaning at times.  (I suppose I am not that easily offended.)  I didn't expect too much going in and was very pleasantly surprised.  I found it to be a good natured, high octane romp.  If you are willing to adjust your expectations accordingly, you may as well.  Vaughn and Owens have a great chemistry.  Vaughn's manic energy is a perfect counter to Owens' more laidback, wry style.

Will John be able to woo Claire away from Sack?  Has Jeremy found the perfect woman in Gloria?  Will they be exposed as the totally lying horndogs they are?  (I don't want to spoil the movie for you.)  I give it a solid 4-1/2 stars.  It loses half a point for a slightly weak and tacked on feeling to the ending.  I've never had this much fun at a wedding, and I didn't even have to buy a present.