I've read a couple of reviews for this movie here and there, and I have to say they all seem quite positive, which I find amazing, since I watched this movie and thought - garbage!

I won't bother summarising the film, it's hardly worth the effort and everyone else here has done that for me.

Where was I? On, yes...garbage! To start with, the Aliens seem to have an accelerated incubation time, meaning we go from the face-hugger to the chest-burster in about 10 minutes. Whoever wrote this drivel obviously didn't do their homework.

Second, the plot was non-existent and the characters shallow stereotypes with no redeeming features whatsoever.  I was quite happy with who got killed and who survived.  The only twist was a nod to feminism with the "soldier coming home from war" being the mother, not the father.  Bravo! Flimmaking has moved out of the 19th century...two centuries too late, but never mind.

Then, of course, there's the absolutely despicable scenes with the aliens  in the hospital.  The whole Predator/Alien hybrid thing must have changed their genetic codes, as I'm sure Aliens need eggs, then face-huggers, to reproduce, and that they could only do one egg for one human - now we have multiple births.

The Predator was the only redeeming thing about this movie.  He was almost a hero in the first movie (which I kind of liked), but in this movie he kills Aliens and humans alike and does it in the same brutal, efficient and methodical way he did in the two Predator movies - those weapons are truly magnificent.  He's a killing machine and you can see he likes being that way.

So, if given a choice between the two, I'll take AVP1 - better plot, better characters, better acting, more thriller than all-out gore fest (which I personally find scarier) and definitely better lit.  It might have been just me, but I had a hell of a time even making out what was going on, the film was so dimly lit in places.  Yes, night-time is dark, but not that bloody dark.

Honestly, though, I'd sooner give both films a miss and sit down comfortably with my 'Alien' Quadrilogy or the two Predator movies.  Much better use of my time.

My recommendation: if you absolutely must watch this movie, if only out of curiosity about what everyone's making a fuss about, go to your local movie rental place and hire it.  Don't waste your money buying it.