"Blood and Chocolate," despite its outward appearance as a modern-day werewolf story, seems more like a commentary on cultural understanding. This is something I initially didn't think possible, considering how classic stories like "The Wolf Man" portray werewolves as unsympathetic monsters. But on reflection, such an idea makes perfect sense: werewolves are shunned by human society due to their ravenous canine appetites, making any attempt at coexistence seem pointless and subtracting; likewise, werewolves are forced to live as outcasts merely for trying to survive. While "Blood and Chocolate" doesn't explore this theme in depth, enough is given to make the message clear to the audience. However, I can't say whether or not this makes the film good; it has some glaring flaws, most notably the fact that the entire werewolf mythos is barely developed.

Nonetheless, I'll go out on a limb and give the film four stars. I think what I found most enticing was the character of Vivian (Agnus Bruckner), who's full of teenage angst despite being in her early twenties. The film begins ten years ago in Denver, Colorado, where we see Vivian's parents murdered by a heavily armed group of men. We have yet to understand why such a terrible thing has happened; all we're initially told is that, in the present day, she lives in Romania with her aunt, Astrid (Katja Riemann). We also learn that she's a Rougarou--another term for a werewolf--the descendent of a long line of canine hunters. Contrary to popular belief, Rougarous are not affected by the full moon, and they have complete control over when and where they transform.

Unfortunately, being a Rougarou has its drawbacks, the most obvious one being they have to hide their true natures from the human population. They're also a traditional race of beings, adhering strictly to the belief that werewolves can only be romantically involved with werewolves. The reason is simple: if involved with a human, a Rougarou risks exposure and the possibility of extinction. But for Vivian, these rigid restrictions pale in comparison to the belief that she's mentioned in an ancient prophesy. Apparently, she will one day lead Rougarous into a new age of hope, free from the fear, pain, and hopelessness they've had to endure. Because of this, her future has already been planned; she's been chosen to be the mate of Gabriel (Olivier Martinez), the current leader of the pack. (I found this a little odd; Gabriel is also Astrid's lover, and their son is Vivian's cousin. Is incest always necessary in such stories?)

As you may have surmised, Vivian is a free spirit, and she views her current life as nothing but a prison. Her only escape is running around the local park, which is clearly symbolic of running away from her problems. She will never accept Gabriel, especially since she's expected to do so. But despite her convictions, she's weary of the unknown, which is exactly what she sees in Aiden (Hugh Dancy), an American graphic novelist. There's a definite attraction at work here, made stronger by the fact that Aiden also comes from a strict family that had expectations. When they meet, Vivian smiles for the first time, which, under these circumstances, is always indicative of someone trying to find his or her place; she may physically belong to a pack of superhuman creatures, but her mind and heart are unbounded.

Of course, Gabriel finds this unacceptable. So does his son, Rafe (Bryan Dick), who's so arrogant and hotheaded that one can't help but hate him. Moments between him and Vivian are always tense, and they're made worse by his consistently condescending attitude. Both he and his father vow to rid themselves of Aiden, not only for Vivian's own good, but for the good of the entire Rougarou species, as well. Unfortunately, they have yet to understand that Aiden is quite capable of defending himself (thanks to being raised by an abusive father).

As the film builds to a climax, Vivian's emotions are running higher than they've ever run: is she to remain loyal to her own kind, or is she to find happiness with an outsider she truly cares about? I found this dilemma interesting, especially since it's utilized in a werewolf story; she and Aiden may be of a different species, but that doesn't mean that she's incapable of showing him love. She also recognizes that Gabriel's hatred for humanity is fueled by fear. This is shown in a scene involving a ritual, one in which a human is forced to run through the forest while being chased by werewolves. If the human can make it to a river, his or her life will be spared (but it won't be easy; the human is cut before he or she runs, and the smell of blood drives the wolves crazy).

Such barbaric treatment brings the film's message out into the open: if there's to be any hope for a new beginning amongst Rougarous, such negative emotions have to be set aside. I'm sure some of you are thinking that I'm looking at "Blood and Chocolate" too closely; isn't it just a supernatural thriller about werewolves? Maybe so, but I'd like to think there's something more to it, something that can be cleverly disguised as a meaningless movie. I see it as a story of identity and acceptance, of tolerance and existence. While none of these qualities make for a particularly original story, at least they make for a more satisfying experience at the movie theater.