Let me start this review by clarifying a few things.  First off, I'm a huge fan of Studio Ghibli.  Secondly, I read the reviews before I saw this so I knew exactly what I was getting.  In other words, one shouldn't expect a sweeping cohesive narrative or a beautifully animated feature film such Spirited Away or My Neighbor Totoro.  So, I didn't have any preconceived notions about what this film would be: I was expecting a collection of short skits about a (somewhat) typical Japanese family and that's pretty much what this is.  So, I feel like I'm judging this objectively on its own merits and not on unfair expectations. Now, on to the rest of the review!

Despite my low rating, there were some positive things which I enjoyed.  Firstly, the haiku poems that separate each skit are nicely written and fit well with the themes.  Secondly, there were funny and cute moments to be found, especially the scene where the couple are fighting over the remote.  I especially like the way in which you feel that you can relate to this family.  They seem very realistic (albeit a bit exaggerated for humorous effect).  I mean, come on, who hasn't argued with their spouse/significant other over who gets to pick what to watch on TV?

Now, the reason this gets a low rating is for several negative things which I felt detracted from the overall experience.  Firstly, I felt that the movie did not focus enough on the humor.  There are narrations which make me feel like the movie is trying to offer proverbial "words of wisdom" or life coaching advice (marriage is like a boat in a storm, etc.) and it almost feels tacked on and unnecessary.  I understand that they were trying to integrate both into this movie, but I don't think they quite pull it off.  Obviously, this is a matter of opinion and some people might like this approach and find it charming.

Secondly, the skit style makes this whole 1 hour and 44 minute movie lack a cohesive feel.  I found that this makes the movie rather boring and hard to pay attention to.  In fact, we ending up turning it off halfway through the first viewing.  I finished it at a later time, but still didn't find it any more interesting.  Perhaps if I had a greater understanding of Japanese culture I might've understood the subtler humor involved, but alas, it was lost on me and I felt quite bored.

Thirdly, the art style is very minimalist.  I don't automatically count this as a negative point since some people may like such a style.  I am personally neutral to it.  The reason I list this as a negative though is because at times the art is SO minimalistic that it takes you awhile to realize exactly what something is supposed to be.  In fact, many times I had to use context clues to figure out what an object was.  For example, when the father pulled out a pack of cigarettes I didn't even realize it was a pack of cigarettes until he pulled out a stick-like item and stuck it in his mouth and then said "I need a light".  In another scene, I didn't realize that the square thing was actually a remote until the couple started fighting over the tv.  Now, this confusion didn't happen often and I quickly figured out things but I'm just pointing out that the art style does have its problems, especially since its even less defined than your average cartoon.

Lastly, I think this film has a problem with pacing.  At 1 hour and 44 minutes, it goes on a long time to have nothing but loosely related skits.  If they had cut out some of the more dull parts and made this maybe a 30 minute short it might have been more interesting and engaging.  As it is though, it feels like it drags on and on.

I understand that this film was based on a comic strip and was never meant to be a feature film with a cohesive plotline, and for an adaptation of a comic I think it does fairly well.  However, it's really too boring to recommend to anyone except the most die-hard of Ghibli enthusiasts, those with a better knowledge of Japanese culture, or those who already enjoy the comic itself.  In fact, if it weren't for the fact that I'm trying to rent every film Studio Ghibli has made I probably wouldn't have ever watched this.  So, my definite advice is that those who are interested in seeing this should really rent it first (available through Netflix) instead of running out and buying it just because it has the Ghibli name on it.  At least that way, if you don't like it you didn't spend your money on an expensive Ghibli DVD.  Overall, after my viewing experience I really can't give this more than 2/5 stars.