Sylvain Chomet's "The Triplets of Belleville"  can best be described as an oddball silent film that relies on its soundtrack to give it shape and its offbeat animation to give it character.  Little roly-poly and deeply wounded Champion has no joy after losing his parents.  He watches television with a blank stare while his grandmother sits next to him, looking for signs of something that will break him out of his apathy.  The gift of a puppy, Bruno, evokes some emotion, but not for long.  When Grandma discovers Champion's passion for cycling, both she and he throw themselves into it with a dedication that can be best described as obsessive.  Champion, however, is not a champion despite his training regimen, and when he gives up during the Tour de France, he is promptly kidnapped with two other last place cyclists and transported to Belleville.  Grandma and Bruno track him across the ocean but then lose him in the overwhelming metropolis.  When they team up with the somewhat goofy Triplets of Belleville, a has-been vaudeville act, they form their own scheme to find and rescue Champion.  Viewers have to infer what is going on through what is shown, instead of what is spoken, since the characters interact mostly through action and expression.

The strength of this film is not the plot - it is thin and not always engaging - but in the coupling of music with the quirky animation/characterization.  The renditions of "Belleville Rendezvous" are catchy and differentiated by the individual "performances."  Chomet's use of a sepia tone palette creates the atmosphere of another era when vaudeville was in decline, gangsters on the rise, and gambling in smoke-filled rooms an attraction.

Whether viewers love it or hate it,  all should agree that Chomet's style is distinctive.  I don't know another animated film that looks quite like this.  Chomet's fascination with obesity (Grandma, Bruno the dog, and most of those living in Belleville) and its extreme opposite, anorexic-like thinness (the adult Champion, the triplets, and even the ocean liner that transports Champion) gives the film a sense of extremes.

This is not an animated film for children, as the triplets live in a flop house where prostitutes and their clients line the hallways.  Belleville is a seedy place, even in the finest restaurants where waiters bend over backwards (literally) to make their customers happy.  The DVD extras contain a hilarious music video and a first-rate trailer which highlights the best moments of the film.

I recommend this film for those who like oddball films, in particular the French quirkiness in humor.  If you hated "Amelie," then you'll dislike this as well, as different as the two films are. -- Debbie Lee Wesselmann