I am a huge fan of the Ghost in the Shell (GITS) franchise. The original manga was outstanding and I love the feature length movie. When I first heard about Stand Alone Complex (SAC) I could not have been more thrilled. The following is a review of the show and this DVD package.

The Show: This is by far one of the best Anime series I have seen this year. After watching the full series in Japanese, I can confidently say that Production IG has done the fans a true service. Rooted more in the original manga than the film, SAC provides a host of exciting episodes full of action, emotion, philosophy and humor. In addition, we get to see more of the lesser known characters that were not as prominent in the film, or in some cases, not in the film at all. For example, the entire Section 9 team is present, including the beloved Tachikomas. If you have limited exposure to GITS, I recommend you first purchase the original manga, read it cover-to-cover, then go out and watch this DVD. It will make the initial fewing much more enjoyable. Overall, this is a fantastic series that will appeal to any fan of quality, edgy science fiction.

The DVD: And now for the bad news. Overall, the production of this DVD is fairly dissapointing. The voice work by the English actors is just bad. While some of the original cast utilized for the movie has returned (such as Batou and Arimaki), the woman hired to voice Major Kusanagi is the worst voice actor I have ever heard. She literally ruins the entire show and forces me to listen to the program in Japanese while reading the english subtitles. Furthermore, the menu system is stale and boring. I know this is really nitpicky subject, but if I have to shell out this much cash, I want to see quality oozing out of each and every pore of this product. The cd soundtrack helps to make up for the faults as it is more wonderful music from Yoko Kanno (of Cowboy Bebop and many other great shows). In the end, though, I have to agree with another reviewer: go buy the Japanese import of this show. It's cheaper across the board and the voice acting (while in a foreign language) doesn't suck!