When a documentary includes commentary from such key artists as Henry Rollins, Jello Biafra and Tommy Ramone, an interesting and rich story of punk music is to be expected. Punk: Attitude fails to deliver.

Despite the fact that the material is organized chronologically, there is no story to help weave everything together. To make things worse, many of the performers featured are extremely obscure and have little, if any, significance to the core of punk music. There are several times during the film where a scenester commentator like Rollins says, "I wouldn't really say they were punk," when referring to a featured band.

Nearly all of the featured bands border on pop; very little time is devoted to heavy or political bands. Additionally, the coverage ends very abruptly in the early 80's, makes quick mention of a few hardcore punk bands (Dead Kennedys, Exploited, and Agnostic Front), makes a very poor attempt at tieing rap to punk, and jumps to Nirvana--hardly punk by any standard. To give an example of how disjointed this film is, there is a punk-rap connection in the fact that the Beastie Boys, who are featured here, crossed-over; the documentary fails to even note that they began as a punk band!

There are a few interesting tidbits featured in this documentary. For example, there is some information about the origin of the Rasta influence on punk and the British punk fashion scene that is responsible for the stereotypical punk image (bondage pants, high-end boots, safety-pinned ripped clothing, etc.). However, any positives are completely overshadowed by the extremely shallow ending in which the Rollins pays tribute to Michael Moore and makes a less-than-motivating plea for punks to become more involved in politics.

If taken at face value, you'll leave this believing that punk began, flourished, and died between the late-`60's and early-`80's, consisted almost completely of pop-punkers like the Pretenders, Siouxsie and the Banshees, Blondie, and the Clash, and was resurrected in the early `90's by Nirvana. Pathetic.