Dating can be harrowing at any age. For people over fifty, dating is NOT for sissies. I recently re-watched this film after a disastrous blind date with a man I met through Craigslist, and "Practical Magic" was balm for my soul. I love the book -- I have read it three times. I recommend it over the film, but then I almost always recommend the book over the film. However, this film beautifully presents what are the central themes of the book: love is priceless, the friends in our lives will always be there for us if only we ask, and the importance of the delicate balancing act between honoring ourselves separate from our lovers, while keeping our hearts forever open and ready to love.

The author and filmmakers are showing us that the love between the aunts, the elder pair of sisters and the younger pair of sisters, the aunts for the girls and vice versa is just as precious, just as life-saving, just as nurturing and fulfilling as the love between the women in the story and their lovers -- sometimes more so. In a culture that has often been guilty of devaluing "spinsters" and the love between sisters, it sends a powerful message of the vital importance of non-sexual love in a fun, playful, entertaining package.

After a bad date, there's nothing like being reminded that single women are just as lovable and just as magical alone or with their women friends and family as they are in a successful and fulfilling romantic relationship.

(Spoiler alert!) One of the best lines in the film is spoken by the delicious character played by Aiden Quinn: "Well, why don't you do what you do, and I'll do what I do, and we'll see where we end up."

That scene presents, in a nutshell, the essence of a healthy relationship: being ourselves with another person, not giving up important parts of ourselves in order to shoehorn ourselves into a relationship that doesn't fit. I can't think of a healthier message about love and dating than that. Of course the film is filled with moments of sacrifice (mother for child, sister for sister, aunt for niece, lover for lover, etc.) but in the end, love relationships only work if we can love and be loved while retaining our best, most authentic selves.

After experiencing a bruise to the ego -- really thwacking into a big bump on the road to love -- being reminded in such an entertaining, engrossing way to be true to myself while keeping my heart open was well worth the price of the DVD and my time.