I loved this movie.  Outstanding in practically every way.  Al Pacino's portrayal of Lucifer is exactly how I have always perceived the dark angel to be.  The devil does not have horns or a tail, he has the face of man himself. I am always amazed at how the religious zealots seem to conveniently forget that Lucifer was the highest angel, an archangel, thrown out of heaven because of his arrogance and rebelliousness, not because he was a mad demon. 
Pacino plays this character beautifully - he is sly, charismatic, chilling, and seductive all at once. One of my favorite scenes was the elevator scene where Milton bates Kevin's mother by calling her "Mrs. Lomax" and asking her slyly that "surely this wasn't her first trip to New York".  Absolutely wicked! Then, as Milton casually wisks Kevin off to a night on the town at the Flamingo club and the boxing match (naturally Don King would have an alliance with Satan), I was mezmerized watching Milton weave his spell and reel Kevin smoothly into his web.  Pacino's climaxtic argument is brilliant as he exclaims that he's a fan of man and why.  As I watched Kevin's descent from Maryann,(Charlize Theron and Keanu had wonderful chemistry as a married couple),I was reminded of how we all make certain decisions then try to justify our actions later, usually with the precursor that, "It wasn't MY fault, it was the work of Satan... then, like Kevin, we make the same decisions over and over.
I thought Keanu Reeves was perfect as the cool, arrogant, hotshot attorney who knows that he is so...good. I am completely baffled by all the haters panning Keanu's acting, he did a great job.  I thought the casting of all the actors were on point in this movie, everyone connected with each other and with their characters.  
My only complaint is that the deleted scenes cannot not be viewed without the director's commentary.  The sub-titles can't even be displayed.  While this DVD has one of the best director's commentary's, it would be nice to have the option of watching the deleted scenes on their own since these scenes contribute to the continuity of the story and clear up questions a viewer may have.  Overall, this movie is just outstanding!