I first watched this movie when I was about 9 years old, not knowing it was R-rated. But I had already gone through the experience of saying curse words without knowing what they meant, so when I heard the cursing in this movie, I didn't worry too much because I already knew not to say those words. But anyway.. at the time I watched it for the slapstick parts. I saw that it was on TBS the other day, and, not having seen it for about five years, I decided to watch it, now being able to appreciate not only the slapstick, but the genuinely funny DIALOGUE as well. And it's a damn funny movie. Clark Griswold (Chevy Chase) takes his family on a 2,000-mile trip from Chicago to Los Angeles to visit the Wally World theme park, of course encountering many "wacky" misadventures along the way. Some highlights: the death of Aunt Edna, the scene where they stop in a black ghetto neighborhood and have to pay ten dollars for nonsensical directions, and let's not forget Clark's tottering on the brink of insanity during a rainstorm when the kids complain that they want to go home ("This is no longer a vacation. It's a QUEST. It's a quest for fun. I'm gonna have fun and you're gonna have fun. We're gonna have so much F--KING FUN YOU'LL BE WHISTLING ZIP-A-DEE-DO-DAH OUT OF YOUR A--HOLES!"). The late John Candy as Lasky, an employee at Wally World, gives a very funny performance. And Imogene Coca, who, unfortuneatley, passed away last week, being the "Your Show of Shows" comedy veteran that she is/was, is pricelessly funny as Aunt Edna. Anyone who has ever gone on a family vacation will practically identify with the Griswold clan. The situations are outrageous, but just realistic enough to identify with. The Griswolds have become synonymous with the typical American family in my own family. When we go on vacation, my dad says things like, "Ready to go to Wally World, Rusty?" :) So, all in all, a very funny movie. "I must be crazy, I'm on a pilgrimage to see a moose! Praise Marty Moose! Holy s--t!"