At face value, this film claims status as a "docudrama," and proposes to reveal to it's audience the making and undoing of the movie, "The Man Who Killed Don Quixote."  We are treated to a behind-the-scenes look at the "Murphy's Law" aspect of movie making, the bureaucracy, and the mahem.  But.....
I have long admired the work of Terry Gilliam as well as the man himself.  He is the kind of iconoclast that the world needs more of, the kind of dreamer that wakes us up, and someone with just enough demons to bring all the so-called "angels" down a rung or two.
However, in acknowledging who the man Terry Gilliam is, I have to reserve some suspicion about the "real reality" of this docudrama.  Excuse the equivocation, but it's only appropriate considering my suspicions about the film.  When you consider that Gilliam is a fan of Cervantes's Don Quixote, and then you consider that Cervantes became a party to his own fiction in Quixote, (inventing Benengali, the fictional original historian of the fictional "real" Quixote) and - then - you consider the man Terry Gilliam, you must then consider the liklihood that "Lost in La Mancha" is Gilliam's own "Benengali."  What I mean by this is that it's quite possible that Gilliam has produced "Lost in La Mancha" to make a statement about Hollywood bureaucracy in the same way the Cervantes used Benengali to make a statement about plagiarism and literature.  I know this may sound confusing, especially to those unfamiliar with Cerventes's Quixote.  But it really does make sense when you acknowledge Gilliam's disdain for Hollywood bureaucracy and his iconoclastic ideals.  There is also the more than coincidental similarity between Lost in La Mancha's six days of filming and Quixote's six day illness and seventh day return to sanity.
So, if you take Lost in La Mancha at face value, it's a fun, fly-on-the-wall adventure about a misadventure Hollywood style.  It leaves the business of making motion pictures naked, and infuses a respect for filmmakers like Gilliam.  But, if you suspect as I do that Lost in La Mancha is Gilliam's own Benengali, then you will find the message in this film and the true genius of Gilliam.