Plot summary: While on a business trip Mr. Ross is ruthlessly murdered by his hired hand, Tom Chaney. Ross's daughter, Mattie, sets out to have Chaney arrested for her father's murder. Complicating matters the killer has fled to federal territory and is thus outside the jurisdiction out of local law officers. Mattie takes the case to a Deputy Federal Marshall, Ruben J. "Rooster" Cogburn. The ornery deputy marshall, while initally repelled by Mattie, quickly grows very fond of her and soon takes the assignment to hunt Chaney in the federal territory he has taken asylum in. Mattie and Cogburn are joined in their search for her father's killer by a visiting Sgt. in the Texas Rangers named Le Boeuf. He wants Chaney for previously killing a Texas state senator. This hit film has some great moments beteen the Duke (John Wayne), Kim Darby, and Glen Campbell. The three of them as Cogburn, Ross, and Le Beouf (sp?) are dynamite together. Their the best things in the film. The Duke (always entertaining) is more so in this film essentially because he is so much more flamboyant than usual. In most films Wayne was kinda quiet and reserved. In this movie he is louder, more glib than usual, and much rougher around the edges. Some say he was parodying himself in this movie. I say he is doing a delightful reversal of his usual screen persona. Darby does very good in this film as well. She convincingly and dedicatedly plays a girl of great emotional strength. Perhaps even physical strenghth too. Her character Mattie Ross has to constantly mention Lawyer Daggitt and Tom Chaney but she doesn't get boring with the names. You get the feeling tracking down Chaney has really become Ross's life's ambition. As for the lawyer, well women in the 19th century needed some form of defense didn't they. I am now going to write something not an opinion. Campbell is from Texas in real life (just as his character is). His accent and even mannerisms are authentically Texan. That is beyond dispute. Also, he speaks his words very clearly and does not get lost in this movie. Someimes that happens to singers who take on acting assignments. Lastly about him, when he gets angry he is rather ugly. Note the scene when he starts horsewhipping Ross on the ground. He becomes very unlikable and that's clearly what the director wanted. There is no way his performance can be bad when he is doing so much right. The supporting cast of Jeff Corey, Strother Martin, Mark Lenard, Dennis Hopper, Robert Duvall, and Alfred Ryder ran the gamut from great to pretty good. As the murderer and main film bad guy Chaney, Corey is effectively nasty and slimey to boot. He also has some kind enough attitude bits and this is necessary as Chaney is supposed to be a man who hides out from the law pretending to be a decent laborer. Great! As the cunning and tough lawyer chewing Deputy Marshall Cogburn out on the stand, Ryder carries the whole scene and for a short time makes the film a powerful courtroom drama. Also great. Martin is wonderfully humorous as the growingly exasperated horse dealer who surprisingly finds Mattie much more han he can handle. A third great performance! Lenard as Mr. Ross has a short role but he does well enough with it. His character makes sense too. When he takes Chaney from the gambling table (just prior to getting killed) we feel his Ross had a right to do so. Chaney was working for him and thus honestly was somewhat in his control. Lenard quickly conveys the illusion of a good and strong willed person (guess Mattie takes after him). Good performance. Surprisingly the two pretty good performances are by future megacelebrities Hopper and Duvall. I know shock time! Hoppper is pretty damn good in his role as the wounded crook who gives our trio info. Problem? By the last scene of the movie you have forgotten his character ever existed. Not a good performance, but pretty damn good. Duvall only turns in a solidly pretty good role as other villain, Ned Pepper. I give him this because he yells pretty good when calling out to Cogburn to clear out or he (Ned) will kill he captured Mattie. Outside of this his performance isn't that good. He has no chemistry at all with any of the cast members at all. About that yelling scene I just wrote of. Did Duvall really meet Kim Darby in this movie? It's hard to believe his scenes with her weren't trick photography. His no-chemistry scenes with Corey are no better. His Ned doesn't even mix well with anybody in the scene where the other guy dies and Pepper takes his horse. Look everyone, if Duvall had not gone on to becomng such a film superstar would you all really care about his Pepper character that much? Probably not!