Ramones Raw is a good little peek at the Ramones on the road.  Now, some of this footage was seen on "We're Outta Here", but Marky Ramone and his High-8 camera has captured a lot of good stuff here.  I never saw Johnny talk so much!!!!  One thing this video does do, is shatter the myth that the bruddas hated each other.  They are seen actually having fun with each other here, so all couldn't have been bad.  The footage from Uncle Floyd and Up All Night is good stuff for those who missed it the first time around.  And I have no idea why another reviewer trashed the "I Ramones" live performance, because it is top shelf!  Filmed in 1980, it has the Ramones still at the top of their game.  The tunes performed here you've heard before, but perhaps not played as passionately.  However, most fans have not heard "I Can't Make It On Time" from End of the Century performed live, and you get it here!  Very nicely done, and I bought this DVD four days ago, and I still have the tune going through my head.  This despite having known the song for 24 years!

Some negatives- This dvd is very heavily Marky centered, mainly because he's the man responsible for a large part of the footage, and he's also the exec. producer.  Tommy is there and C.Jay is there, but Ritchie Ramone is not mentioned or seen.  He has been officially "whacked" by the Ramones.  There is one clip where Ritchie would have been playing, but there's no shots of him on tape.  Not a big deal, but interesting.

Also, this DVD comes billed as having over 5 hours of footage.  Not quite....While it's all good stuff, the bonus section contains the 1/2 hour "I Ramones" concert, which with the exception of, I believe, one song, is cut into the full length documentary anyway.  I suppose you can argue that you get the full program uninterrupted in the bonus section, but you're not seeing anything new.

Good DVD, and it also makes you a bit sad to see the boys there and knowing that three of them are gone now.  I recommend it!