I was actually on amazon trying to get the bibliography info for this movie to use it as a secondary source in the paper I'm currently writing about the social role that existentialism fulfills. I happened to spot a few revews and was both elated and let down. Although I should have perhaps expected a movie like this to recieve opposite ends of the star spectrum from various reviewers, my disheartenment came both from the ecstatic and dismal blurbs. Neither seemed to really capture the essence of what made this movie so beautiful. Personally, I had no option but go ahead and give it the 5-star rating. Why? Because both times I have viewed it, in the theatre and on dvd, I have been near the point of tears. I was literally so happy I wanted to cry. Putting aside the philosophy for a moment, lets get the technical issues out of the way. This movie had direction of the highest calibre in terms of character interaction. Big names don't always mesh, but the quirky cast for me was absolutely perfect. Perhaps not always the most stunning performances, but absolutely internally cohesive, and more importantly, extremely honest. In additon, the soundtrack fit the movie to a tee. For me, it was also the little scenes of nuance that really made it all work, like Hoffman and Tomlin dodging (unsuccesfully) the maze of sprinklers on the lawn of Law's suburban house. And then there was the philosophy. I admit I'm fully indoctrinated and preacher of existentialism, and thus as a result, perhaps did not have a problem with the subtle references made in the film. Maybe this resulted in my fuller enjoyment, but I hate to let it stand as that. Existentialism, unlike so many other philosophies, is at its core, about every day life. As a result, I was thrilled to see it actually put into an absurdly common setting, unlike what is perhaps somewhat the fallacy and alienating elements of "The Stranger", "Waiting for Godot", and many French existentialist films. This work made it accessible in a way I had never before seen. I saw another critic write that the French films do it better. I agree that they make French existentialist films better, but given the rarity today of existentialism in the American vocabulary, there is little in the way of standards in terms of American existentialist films. I Heart Huckabees seemed then to not only be attempting to expose the humanistism involved, but also working to backtrack for lost time. Only a concept so decorative and absurd as an "existentialist detective" organization could pull of the transition so blaringly in a truly American indie setting. I realize now that not everyone who has seen the film appreciates it, but I still think everyone should see it. Less for the film itself, but rather because in an American world of prescriptive victimization, I think many of us could do well with a healthy dose of self-speculation, especially when we can be assured of the absurdity it delivers. I would beg anyone reading the reviews without having seen the movie, to do yourself a favor and decide for yourself. You may or may not like the film, but the exposure can be life changing.