With the 'Empire Strikes Back', George Lucas, having blocked out a dramatic scenario for this middle piece of the trilogy, made one of his best professional decisions - He handed the writing and directing reigns over to others. As he has proven time and again when he does this, he chose well. Leigh Bracket and Lawrence Kasdan were entrusted with the script and Lucas' old UCLA tutor Irvin Kirshner was put in the director's seat. The result is, to say the least, mindblowing. A film that succeeds against the odds and on almost every level, 'Empire' is a visionary masterpiece, far better now in hindsight than even it's stunning, controversial debut in 1980.

Visually, the film is unique and beautiful, just predating Blade Runner, it demonstrates a superb scale and sense of design, from the frosty landscape battle on the ice planet Hoth to the Lando Calrisian's eerily beatiful sky city, bathed in a permanent orange clouded sky. As revolutionary a spectacle as Star Wars was in 1977, nothing prepared audiences for the experience of 'Empire' - the magnitude and detail of the effects is staggering.

Probably most impressive is the handling of character and drama in this film - the actors are far better served by Kirschner than in Lucas' original which had a fabulous  humorous charm but had occassional laughable moments (not as many as the prequels of course!). Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford and Carrie Fisher all relish the opportunity to investigate the depth and humanity of their roles, although they are also allowed comic moments also, the pervading theme is of unavoidable destiny, harsh self discovery and terrible loss. This is, after all, the Empire's film!

For this reason, the film gets better and better on re-watchings. You need to readjust your story expectations away from the naive optimism of 'A New Hope' which is an altogether different form of pleasure. This film takes you through light and darkness, and all across the galaxy - it's the Star Wars film that we all wanted and got - expansive, detailed, thrilling adult science fiction.

Kirshner's judgement in selling unlikely plot points is superb - no science fiction film with perhaps the exception of Blade Runner has excercised such clever restraint and afforded it's audience's intelligence with so much respect. This is most clearly demonstrated in the introduction of Yoda, an unlikely Jedi master - still in my opinion the beginning of the end of the Star Wars saga (signalling the journey at the end of which the puppets and the cgi characters outnumber the people), the character is still very subtly and complexly sold to the audience. His lines are often profound. "I don't believe it" says Luke. Yoda explains, "That is why you fail."

No Star Wars film in the wake of Empire ever received the sort of directorial care that this installment can boast. Everything was attended to here but most crucially, plot, humour and characterisation. Fantasy worlds are made so the WE humans (not animated characters) can explore them and enjoy them, and this film gives us the ultimate experience. If you haven't watched it in 20 years, revisit this episode. It still has the power to make nightmares and dreams come true.