"Slings and Arrows" is a little Canadian show that aired on the Sundance Channel in the United States. It consists of three seasons of six episodes each. The show centers on the talented but troubled Geoffrey Tennant (played by Paul Gross of Due South fame), a former Shakespearean actor who had a breakdown in the middle of a performance of Hamlet seven years prior. After his old mentor, who runs the fictional Burbage Shakespeare Festival, dies, Tennant is called to be the interim artistic director; there he is faced with his former girlfriend, an over-commercialized festival, a pretentious and untalented director, his old nemesis, the Hamlet play... and his former mentor, who is appearing to him in the form of a ghost.

The show runs the gamut from comedy to serious, and the comedy comes in all shapes too: we have physical comedy, brilliant dialogue (Don McKellar, playing the pretentious director, has one of the best entrances I've seen: "I am Darren Nichols, so deal with that!"), dark humor (Tennant's mentor is run over by a truck with the slogan "Canada's Best Hams"), and absurd situations (an aging actress trying to explain why she deducted the cost of makeup and push-up bras on her tax returns). And there are also serious interludes, beautifully acted and well written.

The first season follows the production of Hamlet, with an untalented but famous young American actor playing the lead; the second season tackles Macbeth, with Tennant trying to get a talented actor who has played the role numerous times (Geraint Wyn Davies, whom you may remember from Forever Knight) who does not want to take risks or explore the role and is in danger of becoming a hack. In the third and final season, the company attempts to put up King Lear, and Tennant fires the actor originally hired and goes with an aging, heroine-addicted actor who may not survive the play. The company's travails mirror the issues of the plays, as the series goes from young (Hamlet) to mature (Macbeth), to old and on the way out (Lear).

You don't need to know or love Shakespeare, as the series has plenty to amuse and entertain you (and even make you think a bit), but it won't hurt if you do. Watch this show; it will be some of the best 18 hours you've spent in front of a television.