Although the cast list is comprised of mostly females, there are many aspects that allow `Coyote Ugly' to reveal itself as more than just another "chick flick".  The sex appeal that the movie possesses is reminiscent of a `Girls Gone Wild' video; but with a PG-13 twist.  Had the film been pushed to R, it's hard to say if it would've received more or less attention.  The women never really reveal anything.  And for the most part that's okay.  But as another reviewer noted, there is not enough Tyra Banks.  She's on the cover, in the movie for about 15 minutes, and then gone.  I guess in the end it doesn't really matter; but still, they shouldn't lead the viewer on.  When it comes to the actual storyline, a lot can (or cannot) be said.  If you're a male, the plot probably won`t affect you.  However, the female audience will surely be intrigued by the character of Jersey (first-timer Piper Perabo).
The plot is based on that character; who is lost in life and needs something to help boost her music career.  She obviously has talent, but two things drag her down.  One... her father (John Goodman) doesn't want her to leave because he'd then have no one to wash his cloths.  Two... she has an enormous fear of being on stage.  With that being said, the movie just goes off those two aspects.  Jersey does find a job, but it's not your average profession.  The job title is said to be a bartender, but it could be explained as a singer/bartender/stripper/dancer.  As it's old hat with Jerry Bruckheimer films, it does a great job with the in-your-face sequences.  When the woman are dancing on the bar to oldies (or whatever), the camera work shoots back and forth very nicely.  And even though this movie seems like a `Charlie's Angles' without the action, it gives you a real charge.  Finding a bar like this is as far-fetched as the ending to `Armageddon' was (okay, not really).  It seems like the kind of bar people'd dream about.  Since I don't like to ruin movies for people, I will stop here.  There are a lot of interesting parts in this movie.  There's some good comedy; mostly courtesy of John Goodman.  I particularly enjoyed when someone honks their horn at him when he`s working.  I won't spoil that for you either.  But the acting by Perabo is rather average, but can be condoled since it's here first major role.  The role of Kevin (Adam Garcia) will certainly be enjoyable for the females, since he brings his own type of male sex appeal to the movie.  And the appearances by funnymen Johnny Knoxville and Chris Wylde are genuinely good cameos; though not as good as LeAnn Rimes playing herself.  The characters of most of the bartenders are not well-covered, but I think it was intended to be that way.  And the fact that Zoe (Tyra Banks) left to become a lawyer is smart; as it shows the women are not just brainless, low I.Q. bartenders.  Still, although most of the movie's aspects are covered, some of them are not covered too well.
Whether you're a boy or a girl, there's great chance you'll enjoy `Coyote Ugly'.  If you like the female-fronted movies then there's no question you'll like this one.  If you're a male, and you're looking for hot, sensual movies with endless spraying of beer and close-to/would-be strippers, you'll probably enjoy it too.  I gave the movie 3 stars; I enjoyed it a lot, but as I've hinted to, was a little disappointed with it as a whole.  I give Bruckheimer and co. credit for doing a movie like this, though I don't feel it is quite as good as his other "action" movies.  This film is not a let-down because of its PG-13 rating, and it's certainly not just a "chick flick".  I do recommend this, but know what you like first.