"The Last Temptation of Christ" is a very personal film from Martin Scorsese that attempts to understand the myth of Jesus from a human perspective. What other perspective is there, really? So as a result, Jesus the Man does not exactly act like Jesus the Lord in the film, at least in the biblical sense, but the film is not trying to be faithful to biblical texts. "The Last Temptation of Christ" is more of a meditation on what it means to be "the son of God;" a struggle that people of religion should empathize with considering they are trying to live up to being "a son of God." Yet even though the overall outcome and message is in accordance with the symbolic nature of Christ, the depiction of Jesus in the film still offends many people because he is apparently too "human."

Now there are many laurels to this film from the Modernist Master. For one, the film showcases some great performances (if you can get past their New York accents), particularly that of Willem Dafoe, who plays Jesus. Although Dafoe, at times, overplays the subtleties and mystique of Jesus, he still turns in a wonderful performance. The cinematography is excellent. Scorsese modeled a lot of his shots after ancient biblical paintings, and the cinematographer catches the right tones and colors, bringing a certain authenticity to the film. Consider the slow motion scene where Jesus is carrying the cross through the throngs of pig-like faces. As far as directing, well it speaks for itself. Like other great directors, Scorsese made the film to try and answer questions within his own soul. "The Last Temptation of Christ" is as much about Scorsese as it is about Jesus; why else would the characters sound like they were from New York? :-)

Faith and Redemption are two themes that are underscored in all of Scorsese's films; in "The Last Temptation of Christ," those themes are laid out to bare. Scorsese is not trying to reinterpret biblical texts, but to understand them.  The humanization of Jesus in the film is no different than the multiple artworks that portray him as fair skinned, dark haired, and caucasian. What makes Jesus human in the film is not so much his sins, but his capacity to make choices. Jesus the Lord was destined to die on the cross from the moment he was conceived; Jesus the Man 'chooses' to die for humanity's sin. Without doubt or temptation, where is the sacrifice? Jesus' choice is the path to faith and redemption. What comes about is not so much a film about God, but about humanity.

"The Last Temptation of Christ" needs to be seen with an open mind. Like the Bible, the film's message is not in its context, but in its subtexts. "The film has offended those whose ideas about God and Man it does not reflect, but then again, at the time, so did Jesus..."