The movie Philadelphia, by Johnathan Demme, displays the struggle a homosexual man infected with AIDS encounters in obtaining justice because he was unfairly fired from his job.  Andy Beckett, played by Tom Hanks, seeks a lawyer to defend his case.  Joe Miller, played by Denzel Washington, is the lawyer who defends Andy Beckett.  Miller is a character who the viewers can relate to because he is homophobic and has a great fear about AIDS.  The disease was not well known in the early nineties when the film was made, and Miller expressed the same fears of the public.  Joe Miller learned how to put his personal feelings aside and defend the law.  Although he does not agree with homosexuality and has a fear of the AIDS virus, Miller learned to look past those emotions and defend a homosexual man with AIDS to ensure that the law was upheld through justice.  Philadelphia is an excellent movie because the viewers can relate to the characters and learn from their experiences with homosexuality and AIDS.
 Joe Miller is a public defense lawyer who takes pride in his work.  He is up for any challenge and rarely refuses to defend a client.  Andy Beckett walks into Miller's office one day, seeking a lawyer.  Miller is startled by Beckett's appearance because he looks ill and has a few lesions on his face.  They shake hands, but Miller is extremely cautious about everything Andy touches.  Andy Beckett introduces himself and explains to Miller that his employer fired him because he lost a serious document.  Beckett wants to sue the corporation because he believes that he was fired out of prejudice.  Miller asks what the prejudice is, and Andy says that the prejudice was against AIDS.  Miller is afraid of the AIDS virus and does not wish to defend Andy.  Andy is disturbed by Miller's refusal, but kindly departs the office.  
 The doctor Miller saw directly after the meeting with Andy Beckett attempted to assure Miller that AIDS cannot be contracted through a hand shake or touch, it is only contracted through sexual encounters.  Miller is still disturbed by the thought of AIDS, though, because he has a family to worry about.  The fear of this disease, however, did not stop Miller from thinking about Andy.  Miller is dedicated to the law and does not like to see unjust acts, but he did not know how to overcome his fear of Andy's virus.  He tried to convince himself that he denied Andy because he did not agree with homosexuality, but the truth is that he could not face his fear.  Many citizens of the United States had the same fear of AIDS in the late eighties and early nineties due to the rising number of outbreaks.  Scientists and doctors could not figure out a cure for this and people panicked.  The majority of outbreaks occurred in homosexual couples and people referred to the disease as the "gay plague" or "gay cancer".  Thus, hatred formed against homosexual people.  Miller displays this hatred in the movie.
 One day Miller is in the library reviewing material.  He sees Andy a few tables over.  A clerk is asking Andy if he would like to go to a private room after he brings him novels about AIDS.  Andy does not want to go to a private room and a small argument arises.  Miller walks over to Andy and starts talking to him.  The clerk leaves and a few people around him move to other tables.  Miller could not let his fear hold him back any longer.  He helps Andy research and decides to defend him in court.  A man's legal rights are more important than his personal situation.  Miller puts aside the fact that Andy is homosexual, and learns to focus on his rights rather than his AIDS.  
 As Miller grows close to Andy, he learns more about himself.  Throughout the case Andy becomes more and more ill.  Instead of being afraid of Andy as he was in the beginning, Miller is compassionate for him and the illness with which he struggles.  Miller is not cautious about touching Andy or being around his homosexual friends.  He learns to accept Andy for who he is and respect him as a human being.  Miller sets an example for society to follow.  The public needs to stop blaming homosexuals for the AIDS virus and learn about the disease.  Homosexual people also need to be treated as every other human being and society needs to learn how to accept them.  Miller proves that these acts can be accomplished in this movie.
 Philadelphia is a strong movie because it demonstrates two serious issues that citizens of the United States face.  Homosexuality and AIDS arose abruptly and many people panicked out of fear of the unknown.  The easy way out was to hate homosexuals because they were believed to be the cause of this disease as Miller did in the movie.  People merely needed to educate themselves on AIDS and get to know homosexuals.  They would discover that homosexuals are human beings just like everyone else and that the AIDS virus cannot be contracted through touch.  Joe Miller set an example for Americans to follow in the movie Philadelphia.