Jeepers Creepers was not the best or most innovative horror film I have ever seen, but it certainly was entertaining. The Beginning, I feel, is the best part of the movie. The Truck coming from behind the car with the horn blaring is simply bone chilling, just sounds completely scary, and is when you least expect it. Also the second best part of the movie is the ending. The ending is not your standard ending for a movie, but I feel that this is really a good ending for a horror movie especially. I think the acting in the movie is great too and it's definitely nice to see some new faces in movies. Also some of the tricks that the Creeper does to hide his evidence is clever too instead of the usual nobody sees anything and every thinks the main characters are crazy routine. The plot also keeps you guessing. Some people see this as a major downfall and the director's lack of explanation, but I think this is a great way to keep people interested and thinking. There are some parts in the movie that do have a point and people over look them such as all the crows. Maybe the crows are how the Creeper acquired his power of flight since everything he eats becomes him.
In addition to all of this though the movie does have its downfalls in my perspective. First off, I think it would have been more scary and interesting if instead of a demon the Creeper was human and there was a more complex idea behind eating people's select body parts. Like for instance if he was collecting them for an experiment to resurrect his dead lover or something like that and he only took the best of everything. Also even though the plot keeps you guessing it could be a tad bit more established in some parts. Like how the Creeper was created or why he was created and why the old woman sees only information about the Creeper and his victims and nothing else. Is she connected?
I think the movie relied a lot on science fiction when it could have easily been converted into a scarier non-fiction story. I think things are scarier when they seem more real and there are things left uncovered. So in the end I rated Jeepers Creepers a 3 out of five stars because of the sci-fi connecting, not that I do not like sci-fi, but I think this movie could have done better with less of it. And if I say nothing else about it the ending is great and horrific.