Firstly, I've got to say that WISEGUY was, and still is, THE BEST American series ever produced (pretending the fourth season doesn't exist, natch:).
I have been waiting for about 15 years for this to come out on first VHS, then DVD.  I was sooooo psyched to hear it would finally come out.  This was going to be the thing that finally made me go buy a DVD player.
Now, I'm not sure I'll even buy it.
I want to thank "Katie from MN," "Wendy A Comeau," and "A Viewer from Dallas" for the heads-up.  
Until I scanned some of these comments, it never occured to me that the first set would only contain the first ARC, and not the first SEASON.  OR that they would throw two episodes on there that were from later in the series.  But most disappointing is what I read about them replacing some of the music from the original.  "Nights in White Satin" was written as if intended to be used in "No One Gets Out of Here Alive."  To this day, I have to fight to keep from crying anytime I happen to hear that song.  What on Earth gave the people responsible for the DVD the idea that it wasn't VITAL to keep ALL the elements in tact?!  What?  They didn't want to spring for the rights?!  
Between the music and the partial season with eps out of place, what a thorough disappointment!  Especially considering the pains that were taken with the continuity of the show.  I expected much better.  You'd think that they'd give the fans who waited all this time and are willing to put out $$$ for this a bit more respect!
And now I have to rescind all the recommendations I made to friends and acquaintances to run out and buy this immediately.
I think maybe I'll just save up for a DVD-recorder and then burn my original VHS copies (from the original airing) to DVD.  There may not be any extras, but at least all the original stuff was there, and they'll be in order.
All in all it sounds like I'd be better off buying myself a season of STARGATE: SG-1 and waiting to see if they get a clue and eventually release a WISEGUY DVD set that gives the series the respect it deserves - not to mention the fans.
Dani the Disappointed