I first watched War And Remembrance when it first premiered on American television. I remember coming home each night and tired or not, staying up to watch each part. All of the actors are excellent and the people who portrayed historical personages (Hitler, Roosevelt, Stalin, Churchill) were absolutely spot-on. Early on, I became enthralled with the progress of Natalie Henry and her uncle, famous Jewish author Aaron Jastrow, played brilliantly by John Gielgud and Natalie's son, Louis, from a freighter bound for Palestine, to an Italian villa, to Theresienstadt (the Paradise Ghetto, which turns out to be anything but)and finally, the journey of Natalie and Aaron to Auschwitz. The train scenes in the cattle car in which Natalie travels and the scenes of the selections and then the fate of those sent to the left are harrowing. I remember watching that episode and not being able to stop crying. Jane Seymour is excellent as Natalie.

Also very well done are the scenes of the lot of Berel Jastrow, Aaron's brother. He ends up on some absolutely horrific "missions" as slave labour to clean up the mess left by the Nazis when they first started killing Jews. It is also quite harrowing. His work-mate, Sammy Mutterpearl finally snaps and commits suicide and takes some Nazis with him. Topol was top-notch as Berel.

The parts with Victor "Pug" Henry, played very well by Robert Mitchum were quite interesting. He goes to Moscow and interacts with several Soviet officials including Stalin himself. The war for him is not without sacrifice when he loses his younger son, Warren, at the battle of Midway. Later, he and his surviving son, Byron, take part in the epic sea battle of Leyte Gulf. In the middle of all this is his affair with Pamela Tudsbury and his eventual break-up with his wife, Rhoda.

His surviving son, Byron, goes to Europe at the end of the war and looks for his wife, Natalie, as well as his son, Louis. There is a touching scene at the end where Natalie sings Louis a lullabye she sang to him when little and Louis, obviously traumatised by what has happened to him, starts to come out of the armour he has built around himself and hesitantly starts to sing along with her.

"War and Remembrance" is one of the better WWII miniseries I have seen and is quite true to Herman Wouk's sweeping novel of the same name. I recommend it highly.