Prerequisites for this film: two hours of uninterupted, quiet time, and a box of tissues.
Those deeply committed to their spouse, or any loved one, will be deeply touched by the absolute torment a man can be driven to by the death of that loved one. Especially hard to deal with is the feeling of helplessness in the heart of a man so formerly, and otherwise powerful and emotionally detached. It leads one to the dangerous place where it seems that the promise of true love threatens to be merely a cruel practical joke perpetrated by a God who, strangley enough calls himself "Love."
The story is touching and moving, and ghastly effective in driving the "cruel" point home. For instance:
There's always background music in a film. But at this point, the scene is silent. Silent for what seems like an eternity, in a room with only a bed visible. On it lays Lewis' wife, while he kneels with his head laying silently on on the side of her bed. Only the clock can be heard ticking, slowly, endlessly. She's dying, and they both know it. And that's the source of the pain.
The dialogue is engaging and heart-breaking at times.  Lewis is left to explain to Joy the seriousness of her condition, and when she finds out:
He: "I don't want to lose you..."
She: "I don't want to be lost..."
The movie is so sad because it's so true - and true not just for Lewis fifty some-odd years ago; but true for all of us, by the thousands every day. Every man and wife, every father and son, every mother and daughter knows that this day is coming for us too, and we are all helpless to avoid it, or to stop it when it comes.
This movie's emotional impact will not stop when the credits roll. It will not stop on the way home. It will not stop for DAYS. It's actually been about six years since I viewed the film, and I want to watch it again, but I have been avoiding it because I already know the deep impact it is going to extoll on me in the process. That's how powerful it is.
On a purely pragmatic note, I've never really been a big fan of Deborah Winger, but she comes across nicely in this film, and of course Anthony Hopkins turns in his usual best.
For further reading, two books by Lewis directly address the events in the movie. "A Grief Observed" wherein the author relates his tormented passage through the grief following his wife's death - a journey that takes him to the very edge of his faith in God, and "Suprised By Joy" which chronicles his "recovery" and renewed faith.