Why is Rear Window one of my favorite movies? Every time I see it I wonder and I come up with new things. One thing is outstanding and that is Jimmy Stewart. He is a photographer who broke his leg while on the job at a racing track. Strangely enough photos of the crash are in the opening scenes. Because he cannot move he is in his chair for the entire movie. The dialogue between him and his nurse is superb, especially the nurse has some great lines.

He is dating the beautiful Grace Kelly who he thinks is just to perfect for him but she doesn't seem to mind. The dialogue between them sounds like that between two people who have known each other for a while. Words that bystanders might find horrible but they are perfectly happy with.

While sitting in his chair Stewart has a chance to look outside his rear window at what is going on outside. There is a dancing lady, a composer, a sunbathing woman, a single woman and a just-married couple. This by the way for a long time was the biggest inside set ever built for a movie.  The thing he notices most however is a married couple and the story will be about them, since he thinks the man has killed the woman and is trying to get rid of the body everywhere. At first no one believes him, especially his friend a police officer. But the evidence gets more and more certain and more people start believing him, leading to a very tense end scene of the movie. This is of course, still a Hitchcock film.

The great thing is that even as a viewer you are convinced that Stewart is wrong, he just seems to be a sad wheelchair bound man that can't wait for another week before the cast can come off. He scratches himself with a backscratcher while making crazy assumptions based on the scarce things he sees at the other side.

It's a very funny movie too and that is especially in the dialogues between the people. An example: Gunderson: It's about time you got married, before you turn into a lonesome and bitter old man. Jeff : Yeah, can't you just see me, rushing home to a hot apartment to listen to the automatic laundry and the electric dishwasher and the garbage disposal and the nagging wife...  Gunderson: Jeff, wives don't nag anymore. They discuss.  Jeff : Oh, is that so, is that so? Well, maybe in the high-rent district they discuss. In my neighborhood they still nag.

Rear Window is, together with North by Northwest, my favorite Hitchcock movie. It is well-acted, incredibly funny and of course has a great and unexpected ending.