Like "Animal Farm" and "The Handmaid's Tale,"  "The Hot Chick" is another insightful cautionary tale warning us of the inevitable fallout created by a capitalist economy.  In this case it's the hollow, narcissistic personalities the system must nurture to sustain its existence.

"Jessica" is an ordinary suburban high school girl who does and buys what she is told to, and like so many teenagers today she experiences an emptiness inside that seems impossible to fill.  She looks to her peers, to boys, to the media, to fashion -- but these are all external things.  This emptiness can only be filled by a father figure, who, due to the demanding nature of today's corporate world, was rarely home during most of her upbringing.  In this sense, Jessica is the feminine counterpart of the feral Victor from Truffaut's "L'Enfant Sauvage."  There is no caring Dr. Itard in suburbia, however, and in order to survive this "jungle," Jessica must transform into her own protective father figure -- only she has had no proper role model; she can only fashion herself after the most primitive male archetype, brilliantly portrayed by "The Animal" Schneider.

This is the second film in Tom Brady's "Animal" trilogy, and here he makes clear his desire to make a collection of films that establish a moderate position between the somewhat pessimistic and chaotic vision of Geoffrey Reggio's "Qatsi" trilogy and the hopeful, synchronistic themes found in Krzysztof Kieslowski's "Three Colors" films.

Learning to overcome shame is one of the main themes of "The Hot Chick."  When Jessica cries to her friends "It's me!" and they only see Schneider, this awakens many a subconscious fear in the audience of rejection due to deficiencies in their own psychological dynamics: whether it be parental dysfunction, sexual confusion, lack of education, poor economic status, or their brother Arnie.  The audience's fear of openly confronting this shame might explain the film's less than stellar performance at the box office, but successful home video run.

Many of Jessica's epiphanies in "The Hot Chick" are similar to those Carl Jung had during his time in Africa, which Brady cleverly alludes to in a cameo by Adam Sandler.  Here Brady uses Sandler to link Jung's idea of a collective unconscious with Wassily Kandinsky's synesthetic theories, which were used heavily in P.T. Anderson's Sandler vehicle, "Punch Drunk Love."

But where "Punch Drunk Love" represented Sandler's emotions with abstract sound and imagery, "The Hot Chick" takes a more direct approach, rejecting Kandinsky's reliance on abstraction and mysticism.  And just to be sure we understand he isn't merely putting a phallus in the O'Keeffe, Brady also cleverly rejects Freudian drive theory in the bathroom urinal sequence.  What's left seems to be an outlook in alliance with Swiss psychologist Alice Miller's -- a belief that conflicts with one's parents must be resolved or else one will remain a prisoner of childhood forever.  (A forewarning about not addressing this issue is dramatically illustrated when we see Jessica's younger brother dancing in front of a mirror, wearing lipstick and a brassiere.)

For the most part "The Hot Chick" succeeds in all of its intentions, and unlike other films in its genre (Terry Gilliam's "Brazil" for instance) gives the viewer a sense of hope -- and a challenge: Address "The Animal" inside yourself, and save our world from the dehumanizing corporate machine that exploits our shame and turns us into obedient drones.

I also like the part where he falls down the bleachers.