Although there is a lot of sex in this story and there is a woman named Lucia, the title and marketing campaign are somewhat misleading as it's less about sex of sexual liberation than it is about life, possibilities, dreams, and almost any topic under the sun.
In a nutshell, I simply loved everything about this movie and it is one of the best movies that I've ever seen. I won't give much away as I hate it when reviewers/previews tell you what you should be seeing first-hand. 
I can say that the movie unfolds beautifully like a great fairy-tale/dream sequence/life experience and that the specifics of the plot and circumstance are less important than every single character in the movie. The performances are stellar, the direction is as good as I've seen, the music is beautiful, the cinematography is innovative and better than I've ever seen, and (unlike almost every single movie) I had no idea where the movie was heading.
The movie opens with one of the most romantic and beautiful scenes in movie history and it does not let you go until the final frame. I won't spoil some of the poetic images that you'll encounter, but trust me you'll want to see this movie again just to experience it visually.
This is without a doubt a movie for adults and not solely because of the explicitness of the sex but because the themes are for mature audiences. As I watched this movie, I kept asking myself how Hollywood would have botched up this movie as there are very few movies for adults and even fewer that are this compelling with out being pretentious.
I've recently began watching more Spanish speaking movies and I am surprised by the how movies from Spain and recently Mexico and Argentina are kicking Hollywood's butt, not only due to content but in looking like a million bucks without spending them.
I just saw this movie and I can't wait to see it again. Keep in mind that the sex is very explicit and although I said it's an adult movie, I'd recommend seeing it with people from your own generation. In other words, I would not see this movie with my parents, although I would highly recommend it to them.