I just watched this movie for the first time in years. When I was a kid, it was one of my favorites, and I'll admit that I wasn't expecting much this time around. After a recent viewing of NightBreed (which I also loved when I was younger), I was prepared to have a similar experience with Hellraiser. Instead, I was surprised at how well this movie has held up over the years. Unlike NightBreed, which comes across as cheesey and poorly acted, Hellraiser is still a good horror movie.

The thing that struck me the most about this movie is how complex the plot was for the genre. Back when it was made, horror was dominated by Jason Voorhies and Freddy Krueger. The average horror movie consisted of a bunch of teen-agers being stalked by the Unstoppable Killer, who would slaughter them all in gruesome fashion for such unforgivable crimes as Smoking, Drinking, Having Sex, and Being Mean To The Nice Girl and/or Bookworm Kid (although the Bookworm Kid would usually die first if he commited the deadliest horror movie sin of all... Wearing Glasses).

Instead of these tired old cliches, Hellraiser brought us something fresh, and much deeper. The plot centers on a love triangle between Larry Cotton, his wife Julia, and his brother Frank. The movie opens with Frank solving the Puzzle Box (and suffering the consequences) in his attic. Following Frank's disappearance, Larry and Julia move into the old house. Julia is reluctant, because being in the house stirs old memories of her affair with Frank. But she relents under Larry's enthusiasm. While they're moving in, Larry cuts his hand on a nail. The blood soaking into the floorboards partially revives Frank, bringing him back to a kind of half-life. Frank then convinces Julia to help him get more blood, so he can become whole again. The interplay between Frank and Julia is very layered for this kind of movie. Julia forces herself to become a seductress and murderer, all while telling herself that it will let her finally be with the man she loves. Frank uses his obvious emotional power over Julia to convince her to do unspeakable things for him, all while looking for his next conquest (Larry's daughter Kirsty).

Although they would become the main characters later in the series, Pinhead and the other Cenobites get comparitively little screen time in this film. I think this gives thier appearance a much greater impact when it finally happens. Later movies would reduce Pinhead to being just another horror movie slasher. But here, when the Cenobites arrive to return the murderous and manipulative Frank to Hell, they almost seem to be instruments of divine (?!) justice. As Pinhead himself says at one point: "We are Angels to some, Demons to others".