Traditional Film Noir meets Robert Rodriguez in this epic dramatization of Frank Miller's Graphic Serial, "Sin City".  The resulting picture is visually astounding and hauntingly dramatic.

Robert Rodriguez and Frank Miller take us on journey through three separate stories that ultimatley intersect through out the movie. The stories include a man-hunt for the killer of a "Perfect Woman", an aging cop about to retire who has to complete that one last bust, and a group of women who rule the area of Basin City called "Old Town".

The direction and editing of this movie are no less than we would expect from Robert Rodriguez. Rodriguez reminds us that he is extremly good at what he does. The whole film is shown in Black and White and seems to take place in the 1930's, preserving the feel of Noir.  To give it a modern twist, colors and cell phones were added in.  We see a woman in a red dress standing at the edge of a balcony, a man who's so evil his skin has turned a putrid yellow, and other more subtle touches, such as Alexis Bledsole's eyes and the flashlight as it shines on Clive Owen's face.

The over-the-top acting deserves an A+. If it were any other cast, I'd think it was just bad acting.  However, the A-List stars have taken the film "to the next level" (Sorry, I had to throw a Spy Kids quote in). It adds a fantasy feel to what otherwise would just be another dramatic movie.  It is similar to the acting in Molholland Drive during the dream sequence. Probably the best perfomance is done by Mickey Rourke as Marv, I didn't even recognize him st first. Hopefully Marv can do for Mickey what Cap'n Jack Sparrow did for Johnny. Elijah Wood also shows us that he can be more than just a "Hobbit from the Shire".

This movie contains strong violence. A man is beaten to death, and another is fed to a dog. There are suggestions of Child Molestation, Prostitution, and a couple of characters use Religion to justify cannibalism. Though there are some bloody sequences, most use a bright white goop to signify blood, looking more like a bird pooped on them. Like Kill Bill, body parts are sliced off non-chalantly, but unlike Kill Bill, it's kept below 100.  There is also some tongue-in-cheek comic relief. Watch for the bow and arrow scene.

Viewers who enjoy this movie will also like both Kill Bill Movies and "Pulp Fiction", by "Guest Director" Quentin Tarantino and "Once Upon A Time In Mexico" or "Desperado", Robert Rodriguez.  You may also want to check out some other Modern Noir Films like "Molholland Drive" (David Lynch) and "Never Die Alone", as well as Tradtional Film Noir flix, "Sunset Boulevard", "Notorious", and "The Maltese Falcon".

All in all this movie is a must see for Film Noir and Rodriguez/Taratino Fans alike.