I KNOW how brutal and wrong the American War in Iraq wa(i)s, intellectually, but this film brings it home. This is a good refresher in the HORROR of American adventurism. For this war was not nobly mounted or intended. "W" Bush gave a whole LITANY of implausible excuses for his invasion of a country that never did anything to us, and which didn't present ANY threat, which just prove that he never had any reason to invade at all.

George the 43rd's first excuse was to protect the Iraqi People from that ruthless dictator, Saddam Hussein. But then we caught Hussein and executed him, and the War didn't miss a beat. Then it was WMD, Weapons of Mass Destruction, which were never found. Then it was Al Quaeda, which BTW represents such a loose coalition of like-minded but independent and often undefined groups, tribes, etc., that it could barely be identified, much less defeated.

And when you see what we DID! PROTECT the Iraqi People? HAH! WE, THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, AND OUR SOLDIERS, RATHER BECAME THE EPITOME OF EVIL! When you see NUMEROUS incidents of Americans shooting and SLAUGHTERING innocent Iraqi CHILDREN, and civilians everywhere, for no reason at all, and for sport, we know that it was NOT Saddam who was so evil, at least not compared with US.

Then when you see the damage that war has done to American soldiers, many of whom, if not killed outright, might as well have been: grievously injured, their lives destroyed (what are the reproductive prospects of a man with no nose?), and when you understand that at least HUNDREDS of THOUSANDS of perfectly innocent Iraqis suffered the same fates, the cost seems incalculable. And indeed it is. America OWES those people their lives back.

For the United States to put Americans and Iraqis through THAT, for absolutely nothing as far as anyone can tell (doubtless, in reality, in a ham-handed attempt to seize Iraq's oil fields), is obscene to the nth degree. I'd have to say that far from Russia or China or Cuba having ever been the focus of evil in the world, the REAL focus has to be US.

To help to understand the real meaning of the Iraq War, THAT is what this film did for me.