In a place where movie ratings aren't decided by drugs, sex, and violence are films like Children of Heaven. This is a movie that you could bring home on a Friday night to sit down and watch with your family and not have to worry about negative images filling the minds and eyes of the people around you. Children of Heaven is a great movie that not only children will enjoy but adults as well. This film, directed by Majid Majidi, is an instant classic that not only gives a sneak peek inside the life of another culture but teaches a lesson about our own as well. Children of Heaven should be at the top of everyone's list because it is a simple movie you can easily watch with the family without having to worry about them seeing things they shouldn't and because while showing us the life of a young boy and his family we also see the ways we should live our own.

 The film begins by showing us the difficult family life of the main character Ali. Ali is a young child who comes home to a hard working family with little money to show for it. We first begin to realize their hardships as we listen to a heated argument between Ali's mother and their tenant over the late rent due that month. It's there we get our first real look at the life of this little boy. His home is little more than a room lined with blankets and pillows, a life much different than what we know. His simple ways are turned upside down however when he loses his sisters shoes after they are accidentally picked up by a trash collector on his way home from getting them repaired by the cobbler. His sister frantically asks how she will go to school the following day with no shoes to wear. Ali quickly deciphers a plan in which she will wear his sneakers and he will meet her on her way home to exchange his slippers with her so he too can wear sneakers to school. This results in tardiness for Ali as well as frustration for his sister. At one point, Ali runs in a foot race hoping to take third place to win a pair of sneakers, but is utterly crushed when he finishes first and receives more impressive awards. Eventually, the movie ends with its problems solved, leaving both Ali and his sister walking in the comfort of their own shoes.

 Today, to be classified as a children's movie means that it is: either filled with animated characters battling each other to ensure the safety of earth, or cartoon animals fighting man to ensure the existence of their rainforest. A movie like Children of Heaven is one that takes us away from that, to a place where real people live in a real world full of love and family instead of hate and violence. The instant problem most have with the movie is that it is filmed within another culture and therefore is spoken in another language. Of course, all of the dialogue is subtitled and I will admit that draws away from the beautiful backgrounds spread throughout the movie, but what's wrong with having to read occasionally. It doesn't present any big problem to adults, and their words are ones that children will not have trouble understanding. A movie like this, filled with tolerance and understanding instead of sex and hate is one that children can both enjoy and learn from.

Children of Heaven is such an important movie for not only children but everyone to watch because it shows us a life much different from the one we live. For most of us, the idea of having to choose between having shoes or food is a foreign one. The room that Ali calls home is nothing more than a shed where we would only think to put our lawnmower. Seeing the story of this little boy played out on screen is not only entertaining but it also shows us how we should write the story of ourselves. Maybe driving the fastest car and having the nicest clothes aren't the dreams we should be chasing, but instead we should simply try to find happiness, peace, and most of all contentness.

 Children of Heaven is a movie I thoroughly enjoyed, and would recommend to anyone not just because it's a great movie for families, or because of its educational value, but because it simply is a great movie.