This move was a huge let down for me. I am a planet of the Apes fan. I have read the book, and I love the first two original movies. I had very high hopes for this movie, but when I saw it I was sadly disappointed. 
First of all, the male apes look incredible, and the ape movement is great, no dispute about that, but that is about all that is good about this movie. Question, why do the female apes look like humans? They hardly look like apes at all? Next is the space pilot, I forget his name, that's how memorable this movie was. Anyway, when he first comes to the Planet of the apes he comes crashing down into a blaze of glory right into a swamp. (Spoiler coming) Later in the movie the chimp from his time comes to the Planet of the apes. This is a chimp he originally went after in the first place. The less evolved chimp manages to gently land the spaceship around all the other apes. Wow. And earlier the pilot who crashed into a swamp was saying how these chimps can't fly and never give a mans job to a chimp or something along those lines. Now he can go home in the chimps ship. He goes back to Earth and of course the same thing happens again. He crashes into the ground in Washington in a blaze of glory. It's like he doesn't even know how to land this damn thing, but a little chimp can? He's really going to which he hadn't smashed that ship up. 
Now here's my biggest complaint. In planet of the apes, both the book and previous movies are very powerful because of how they convey the feeling of total helplessness and solitude for the main character. In the book, Ulysse Merou, the main character, is surrounded by Apes who speak intelligently. They don't speak English though, of course Duh, it's another planet. He must learn their language to prove he is intelligent. (on a side note I can see why this part would not be used in movies). The humans on the other hand are as dumb as horses. Total savages that he cannot communicate with at all. He even has a physical attraction to one and feels guilty because to him she is like an animal. It is a very eerie book. The original movie while still not as good as the book manages to convey this as well. Humans are dumb savages that offer no help what so ever. Tim Burton has managed to blow all this away in this movie. Humans are intelligent and all they need is "a hero to deliver them from their Ape hell" Is this a Hollywood movie or what??? I know he is not following the original storyline, which is fine, the original movie didn't follow the storyline either, but common, I think Humans not being able to talk is the biggest point of the story. 
The characters are also not memorable at all. They are plan and boring. Maybe some of the apes had a bit of interest, but overall most of the characters are boring. I could go on, but I think I've said enough.
Anyway, my advice is, if you want a good planet of the apes story watch the original movie, or better yet, read the book, you won't be sorry.