The 1993 hood classic "Menace II Society" is one hell of a movie. It takes place in Watts, Los Angelas, and from start to finish, the movie is like one long roller coaster ride. The cast is excellent, the story is VERY realistic and believable. This has to be one of the best hood movies made, along with Boyz N The Hood, Juice, and New Jack City (more of a drug movie though). The violence never stops, and the overall grimey feel of the film never seems to leave. The movie definitely keeps you on the edge of your seat, however cliche that seems to sound. It's very hard to predict what's going to happen next with every scene, and it all comes down to a depressing end.

The story is told by Kaydee, or Caine, who is a little...well, troubled. His dad was murdered when he was young, and his mom overdosed on drugs. As the result, he was sent to live with his very religious grandparents. At the beginning there is a fitting flashback to his childhood, where he sees his dad murder another man at a party over money. Throughout the whole movie, Caine is pressured badly by his best friend, O-Dawg, who is young, black, and don't give a f**k, or in other words, America's nightmare. At the same time, he is dealing drugs, and trying to help out Ronni, his female friend, and her son, Anthony. Ronni tries to steer him in the right direction, along with several other adults and another friend. However, that doesn't mean that Cain listens. The story is well crafted, and the characters are very believable. You have the main character who is torn between which path to take, the other who doesn't care, one who is very religous and tries to get his friends to be the same, and one who could be a football player. All of the characters help to contribute to the movie.

Many people compare this to Boyz N The Hood. I like both movies, but I will say that this one has more of a ghetto feel to it. There is way more violence and bloodshed than BNTH, and there is a hell of alot more of smoking, drinking, and drug dealing. I still like Boyz N The Hood a tad more, for some reason that I don't even know. The acting and cast is great. Tyrin Turner as Caine, Larenz Tate (one of my favorite actors since this movie) as O-Dawg, and Jada Pinkett as Ronni are all wonderful in there performances. All the other actors do great in their roles too. The whole movie is shot brilliantly, and shouldn't be missed by movie lovers.

So, I'd suggest you pick this movie up, especially if you like Boyz N The Hood, Juice, New Jack City, Above The Rim, etc. Maybe if you just like violence with a message. The movie is great, there is not a single thing wrong about the picture, script or acting. There is one thing, just like in Boyz N The Hood: There are a few racial insights but not much. Just a few racial comments are made toward Caucasions, so if you're easily offended do not watch this film, or ignore the comments. Otherwise, rent this movie when you see it. You'll get your money's worth, and there's no doubt about that.