I really like Fat Jo Tomas' cynical dig at the other movie of infamy starring those two pretty boys and a nurse.  Anyway, 'Tora! Tora! Tora!' is an interesting American film because it took account of both sides' perspective of the war, and its portrayal of the internal Japanese politics that led up to the attack was quite detailed for a Hollywood film.  You can almost bet that film of this calibre would not have been made in Hollywood today - too many marketing agents would be demanding changes to make it more palatable to the mass audience.  I first saw this film when I was a kid, and recently I saw this film again long after my graduation from university education as a history honours graduate.  I came to appreciate how much I missed when I first saw it as a kid.  That speaks loudly for the depth of this film.  
I now appreciate how reluctant the Japanese navy chiefs were about entering into a war with the Americans, and their disagreement with Tojo, who was portrayed in this film as an ultra-nationalist warmonger.  It reminds of another debate that took place between the Japanese navy and army over the question of whether they should invade Australia.  The navy argued that it should be invaded because the strategic value of Darwin as a naval base, while the army argued against it because of the logistic difficulty in defending a large country with their over stretched manpower.  It makes me appreciate the dominance of the Japanese army generals in the decision making process of war time Japan.  
'Tora!...' is also very emphathetic and detailed in its portrayal of the American perspective, especially the political intercourse between the military inteligence, military administration, diplomatic service and the presidential office.  It has probably missed other key historical details as well (such as the role of foreign allied intelligence), but for a film of this magnitude, you can be forgiving.
Finally there's enough action in this film to satisfy the hormonal instinct in us all, though that comes in the latter part of the film.  In fact 'Pearl Harbor' took some footages from 'Tora!...', which is a tribute to the quality of action footages in 'Tora!...'  
One of the many brilliant war films of 20th century ... alongside the likes of 'Glory', 'Stalingrad' and 'Das Boot'.