SEA HAWK..1940

written by: howard koch and seton l miller
directed by: michael curtiz
musical score by: eric wolfgang korngold

errol flynn- captain geoffrey thorpe
dame flora robson-queen elizabeth
brenda marshall-dona maria alverez
claude rains-don jose alverez
alan hale-carl pitt
una o'connor-marthe

a great battle between one of seven english privateer vessels....THE ALBATROS...and a spanish galleon ensues on the high seas.....fire from eight powerful cannons spew out fire and smoke across the decks into the narrowly crippled spanish tall ship....splitting her arthward ship right down to her abaft the beams...her sails tattered and torn...plunge onto her decks and she's in grave danger of sinking...

ever so slowly the captain of the albatros is revealed...our gorgeous flynn..he stands tall handsome and confident at the wheel...

"mr. pitt!" he shouts out orders to prepare to board the captured vessel..

flynn and his crew swing by rope..in pirate fashion..across the water from one ship to the other...along with gathering chests full of treasures jewelry and gold ....meant for the coffers of king phillip of spain....they discover several souls below deck....marshall..rains...her uncle...the ambassador to spain and o'connor her lady in waiting..

flynn takes one hard look at marshall and we know from the expression on his face..he is rendered speechless by her very presence and beauty....they and the rest of the spanish crew are immediately transported aboard the albatros just as the spanish ship sinks to the bottom of the sea....

during the voyage to england..there is a charming sequence where marshall stands on a balcony outside her room below deck...flynn stands above deck...he leans over the rail...hesitantly and awkwardly he starts up a conversation with her...during this exchange...he tells of the virtues of pirate etiquette..and tells her of an old english proverb.."those who sail without oars stay on good terms with the wind"...he and his company prowl the seas free as birds.....he remains boyishly tongue tied sporting devastatingly expressive brown eyes and that flynn smile..

enter dame robson and her court....back now on english soil...a spectacle at court to be sure...pomp and circumstance reign...the queen summons seven captains that comprise the SEA HAWK enterprise of privateers...everyone bows but where is flynn? in another delightful scene..flynn arrives at the queens court and we observe immediately that he is favored by her...she can not hide her girlish pleasure to see him and he knows this...later in her private quarters he presents her majesty with precious pearl on a gold chain and a clever little monkey brought back from his conquests....she appears enchanted with his surprises...

robson and flynn then enter into a lengthy conversation about defeating the spanish armada...flynn wants to make plans to sail the albatros on a secret mission to panama and surprise the enemy...in a rather poignant moment between the two...the queen acquiesce but looks in his eyes and says to him.."if you did so you would do it without the approval of the queen of england.....but with the great affection of elizabeth"...he kisses her ring and bows...

later in a scene in the lovely rose garden outside the palace...*one favored by my captain*...flynn greets marshall with a more than cordial yet still shy hello...his larger than life presence is undeniable as he approaches her...she is standing there with her arms full of long stem virginal white roses....he tells her that he and his crew will be gone for months on the high seas but...tenderly says..."i shall always think of you as my lady of the roses"...

typical.....

next we see flynn and his crew trudge through thick dense panamanian jungle after being ambushed by spanish soldiers who were already waiting to attack them....beaten and half dead they managed to survive and find their way back to the sea where the albatros is anchored and waiting....when they climb aboard her...they find another trap has been set for them by the enemy..flynn sees that it is of no use to try and fight and so surrenders his ship......they are taken prisoner at once and shortly there after end up in a spanish court of law....

flynn and crew are read charges against them...one such charge...item #36 "sorcery and other heretical practices"...lands them in a dark foreboding galley of a spanish vessel... condemned to row in irons for the rest of their natural born daz....

gosh i couldn't believe that would happen for very long.....and i was right!!!

captain thrope and his merry men.....oh wait.....wrong story.....flynn and his crew escape cleverly from their shackles and fight to the finish above deck with the lame crew of the spanish galleon.....next we see....they have returned to england and queen bess.....

flynn and rains have a remarkable swashbuckling sword wielding scene that would rival any well choreographed routine on broadway today...

flynn reunites lovingly with marshall in a romantic....passion filled scene of...you're not dead after all and im so happy to see you......