I read Forster's novel and tumbled unexpectedly, as Lucy did into a field of flowers, in love with the wistful, romantic prose and nostalgic ode to a bygone era, so it was with a fair amount of trepidation that I watched Merchant-Ivory's film version: I thought that nobody could ever match the vivid imagery of Forster's text.

I was happily mistaken. Merchant-Ivory truly understand Forster's quiet power: they subtly transmute a delightful novel into a visual feast that is as much a love letter to Italy and young love as it is the classic story of "boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl". The actors are perfectly cast: Helena Bonham Carter has that wilful, slightly petulant pre-Raphaelite air that is perfectly Lucy Honeychurch, while Julian Sands (who unfortunately did not appear in much else of note afterwards) is earnestly romantic but not laughably melodramatic. The music is beautiful, at times achingly so, and I defy anyone to remain unmoved by the scene where Lucy is first held by George in a field of violets. It could've so easily tipped over into cliches and hackneyed romance, but somehow it still feels fresh, lovely and wide-eyed.

Stand-out performances from Daniel Day Lewis (as the priggish Cecil) and Helena Bonham Carter, as well as from Judi Dench (Eleanor Lavish) and Maggie Smith (as "poor, poor Charlotte"). Honorable mentions to Rupert Graves as Freddy (Lucy's loveable and mischievous brother) and Simon Callow as Reverend Beebe.

Merchant-Ivory has a reputation for corseted period pieces, but the exquisite loveliness and joy of this film should appeal to just about anybody with a pulse. It is one of those films that you will watch again and again, and each time you will have tears come to your eyes and a lump in  your throat from the sheer beauty of it all.

On a technical note, I would not get anything less than the 2-disc special edition (part of the Merchant-Ivory collection), which comes in beautiful matte packaging and includes a documentary with commentary from the cast and crew. The sound and picture quality is fine (at least on my DVD player) -- not 100% crisp as the original film is from the 80s, but a modern, digital sharpness would most likely detract rather than add to the film anyway, in my opinion.

If you liked this film, I would also recommend that you seek out other Merchant-Ivory films such as Howards End and Maurice (both Forster adaptations -- the latter with Hugh Grant in a role far removed from his Four Weddings/Notting Hill persona) and Heat and Dust (set in British India, this film has an oddly intense, exotic melancholy that lingers long after you've watched it.)