I've watched this movie time and time again, and each time there's a nuance I catch that I didn't catch before by one of the truly brilliant actors - Liam Neeson, Stephen Rea, Aidan Quinn and Alan Rickman. At times is can be hard to watch, it's not just a story but a depiction of a time in history of Ireland, the brutality may seem unnecessary to some but the truth of matter is that Ireland was subjected for centuries to the most brutal of regimes as time and time again the British sought to erase the Irish culture, language and traditions and if not their culture wouldn't be erased then they sought to eradicate the Irish themselves. So, will difficult to watch at times, and for some, unbelievable, history books show the truth of the matter was much even more hateful and barbaric.

I do like how the movie subtly addresses the weakness in DeValera - his fear that Collins would achieve what he himself wanted to. What's unspoken is that Collins watched over DeVelara's family, putting his own life on the line for them time and time again, and yet DeValera did him in. History has shown that the deal was done by DeValera to partition Ireland even before Michael Collins set said for England for negotiations. For wasn't it clear that it was DeValera who was the ultimate politician and not Collins? Who choses to send a soldier to negotiate a peace treaty? Only a devious politician seeking to undermine a brilliant and brave general who was a leader among men. I firmly believe that DeValera's new ranking in Irish history is where it belongs now - below that of Michael Collins.

The one blight on this film was the producers idiotic casting of Julia Roberts. They didn't need her 'name' for this film - they had brilliant actors already in place. She's awful, her portrayal of an Irish girl insulting, her acting capabilities are quite sub-par highlighted by the excellent actors she does scenes with. She's like long one big long nail along a chalkboard. Producers really need to leave her in the genre she belongs - and great acting films isn't it - Mystic Pizza, Pretty Woman are her genre.