Don't read about it in reviews or articles online (and yes, I'm fully aware of the fact that what you'll be getting if you read beyond this sentence might classify as a "review").  Just watch it.  Just do whatever it is that you need to do to witness R. Kelly's Trapped in the Closet.  The problem with most articles and reviews online, such as those here at Amazon or at Rolling Stone, is that they give you too much.  For a work such as this, spoilers are unforgivable.  The psychotically insane genius of TitC relies partly on surprising the viewer with its confounding plot revelations.  Beyond that, however, there is simply Kellz' beautiful (sometimes so in spite of the subject matter) vocal performance.  In fact, in many ways it is the incongruity of the angelic beauty of the vocal performance with the STUPID plot twists and ghetto dialogue that really makes TitC worth watching and discussing.  Otherwise it would just be a rambling, repulsive joke.  As it stands, it is a rambling and repulsive might-or-might-not-be joke that sticks in your head and puts your jaw on the floor.  The thing that really keeps me intrigued is contemplating R. Kelly's actual intent with this piece.  It is absurd beyond anything anyone could have predicted, but there remains ambiguity about whether or not he intended it to be a joke.  Whether he did or whether he didn't, however, the fact of the matter is that TitC is unlike any piece ever produced in popular music history.  R. Kelly has succeeded in doing something so boldly unconventional that the question of his sanity is finally put to rest:  R. Kelly has lost his mind, and he has enough money and notoriety to share it with all of you out there in TV Land.

Although he has been convicted of no crime, there is a great deal of likelihood that R. Kelly is indeed a sex offender and a pervert in just about the most negative sense of the word.  My reverence for TitC does not condone the actions of the deranged mind behind the work; however, I also do not believe that those actions diminish the importance of the work in the historied cannon of pop music.  Most people--let alone most musicians--in their lifetimes could never hope to produce something this astonishing, and by astonishing, I mean completely f****** retardedly insane.