Several of the user-contributed reviews for "Chicago" make it sound like the film (and the original play and earlier works they're based on) is a treatise on the virtues of sex and liquor.
In fact, in one way, it is. It's a commentary on how we, society, respond to celebrity and media manipulation.
The first time we see the lawyer, we hear him sing about how money means nothing to him (while he's being measured for custom suits, riding in expensive cars, and having beautiful women draped over him as part of the choreography for the song). Clearly, the visuals tell us, he's a manipulator.
Both female leads, excellently cast (although I would entertain arguments for others in the roles, these are fine examples of the craft), are similar manipulators. The brunette murders her lover and sister (who is also her partner in her stage act) and then boasts, later, that they "had it comin'." The blond murders her lover and then, having convinced her husband to take the fall for her, sings a ballad about how faithful he is and how much she loves him - until he realizes (about verse three of the song) that she's been two-timing him and rats her out. (I took my 63-year-old mother to see this, and she started laughing at that moment.) Mid-ballad, she changes her tune (literally) and starts singing about how disloyal he is.
"Chicago" is not endorsing these creeps. It's telling us that we have a voyeuristic need to follow their stories, to be entertained by the media instead of being informed by it. Certainly, you cannot see "Chicago" without acknowledging some of the grime in our world, and in ourselves.
It's called "art".
The visual style of "Chicago" deliberately pulls you in, as "Cabaret" did, by putting [nearly] all the numbers into a night-club setting so that people don't just spontaneously break into song. (That's one the big complaints about old-time musicals that I hear, and Chicago/Cabaret can't be accused of having nuns on hill-tops breaking into song.)
It is a great film, even if it's a bit uncomfortable in places. (A press conference scene feels almost as frightening as a debate in Bullworth in which the title character points out that the press is in the entertainment business.)