I am an Asian male who saw the film and the event where the director spoke. I learned a lot of things that day and researched more myself since I have heard stories like this but did not have to go through it myself.
The workers' isolation makes it difficult for them to access outside help and corroborate their stories for authorities.  "Domestic worker cases- they're like this dirty little secret," says Jenny Stanger of Los Angeles' Coalition to Abolish Slavery &amp; Trafficking. "They're working in the private sphere, where you are least likely to detect slavery. I think it's an enormous problem; there are a lot of them out there.
"In many cases it's one person's word against another," adds Dr. Mohamed Mattar of Johns Hopkins University's Protection Project, a research institute dedicated to human trafficking. "In many cases...we're talking about high-profile people, because who can afford domestic except somebody like a diplomat?"
just like in the film
A quote from one boss to their worker tells it all "You don't even deserve to be in this country (U.S.). I only did you a favor by bringing you here and you don't appreciate it. You come from poor blood and poverty!" just like in the film when they yell at her and think they are better than a poor country girl
my friend is a cop in Monterey Park, CA and gave me this which is on the city website, a city of hard working good Chinese families but like in the film things happen there too like everywhere-
The criminal ringleaders employed Chinese women as prostitutes in medical offices and private residences throughout Southern California. Organized Crime and Vice Division Prostitution Section detectives obtained a search warrant for a total of ten business and residence locations in Los Angeles and Orange Counties involved in this criminal enterprise. Locations searched were in Sherman Oaks, Santa Clarita, Westchester, Torrance, Redondo Beach, Altadena and Irvine.
On April 1, 2003, OCVD detectives arrested four suspects for 266 (h) P.C., Pimping. Qiong Feng Chou, 52, Kit Poon, 32, and Trisni Tedjasutisno, 30, were arrested at or near a residence in Irvine
-LAPD office of the Chief of Police
On July 17, 2003 the Monterey Park Police Department, in conjunction with the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, Los
Angeles Police Department, San Gabriel Police Department, and the Los Angeles
County Probation Department served search warrants at thirty locations
throughout the San Gabriel Valley involving members of the "Black Dragon"
Asian Gang.  Officers from Glendale, Burbank, Alhambra, El Monte, Monrovia,
Glendora, Baldwin Park, West Covina, Pasadena, Azusa, Arcadia, and Whittier
Police Departments, Members of L.A. Impact, Los Angeles County and Orange
County District Attorney Investigators, and Agents from Alcohol Tobacco and
Firearms, and State Parole Agents assisted in the early morning service of
search warrants.
This investigation was the result of a three-year joint agency effort to curb
the criminal activity of the gang. 
The "Black Dragon" Gang is a violent street gang that has been active in the
West San Gabriel Valley area since 1984.  Most of the members of the gang are
of Asian Decent.  The criminal activities of the
gang have included murders, attempt murders, assaults, drive-by shootings,
weapons violations, home invasion robberies, commercial robberies, extortions,
residential burglaries, auto thefts and the operation and/or protection of
houses of prostitution.