Oh, if my good friend Bob was only here with me right now!  He'd have had a couple of single malt scotches on the rocks, easy on those rocks.  He'd be laughing at the way I'm crying and singing and dancing and bopping around like the kitchen scene in "the Big Chill".  And, he'd look at me and say, "You are so fu$%ing predictable!"  Of course, this is the same Bob, brother that I never had, who has also given me first VHS copies and now DVD's of almost every romantic movie ever made.  They go all the way to Gone With the Wind, Doctor Zhivago (but, we'd be drinking vodka for that one), The Way we Were...  I can see you know where this is going.  Well there now, have I given up enough of myself by telling you that little story?

If you, like me, loves a wonderfully scripted, brilliantly acted film that could make you fall in love with Hugh Grant all over again, just like you did in "Four Weddings & a Funeral", this is so the movie to buy.  I'm sick that I missed it at my local theater where I could have gone to a matinee on a Wednesday, where the theater would have been empty except for me and the odd usher who'd come wandering in part way through the film.  And, why is that they're still called "ushers" anyway?  I can't remember the last time one helped me to my chair, not that I need assistance getting there!  He's usually the guy who comes and tells me to take my shoes off of the seat in front of me.  I do interject here but I do not put my shoes on anyone's seat...now, if the odd part of my jean were to touch the seat, what's the harm in that, right?

Anyway, my point was that I could have laughed and sung right along to my heart's content.  Heck, I could have been up dancing in the aisles and no one would have even thought of calling for the men in the little white coats to take me away to Betty Ford to join Britney or Lindsay.

Hugh isn't a professional singer or dancer and neither is Drew Barrymore.  But, you'd never know it!  This isn't a film where you're embarassed for them when you see them sing or dance.  They both worked and trained hard and it shows.  Hugh even learned to love the piano and they both did all of their own singing which is part of what makes this film so damn charming.  Can I say damn here...ah well, already did...twice!  Did I also mention that cute Hugh who can always manage a good laugh at his own expense is absolutely perfect with Drew who is lovely, warm, natural and the kind of woman that both men and women fall in love with.

If you're feeling a little down in the dumps.  If you're on Xanax, Cymbalta, Wellbutrin or any of those other mood altering, make you feel better prescriptive drugs, toss them aside (just figurativly my friends...no real tossing of these items please!) and get yourself to this brilliantly uplifting film!  Myself, I buying a brand new copy but I'm going to have to wait until the one that includes the actors and directors talking through the film in Special Features.  For now, I'm just getting my hand on the cheapest copy I can find on Amazon so I can watch it again!

If you're even considering not getting the CD and if you're a girl or a gay guy, what, are you crazy?  You're going to want to get up and dance with your cat or your dog or your stuffed bear for all I care.  You're just going to want to belt it out and dance around your apartment with real and true glee!  Please don't bore me with that I don't do that crap...you know who you are.  And, I should say that is if you've been able to do this at some point in the past.  Those of you who can't, I feel sorry for you...no one will see you my dears.  Some of you have never had an urge to kick up your heels and sing to your shoe or your bottle of shampoo.

Haven't seen a group of good girlfriends in awhile, call them up, pick up several bottles of wine, maybe someone can make a few lemon drops, or cosmos, apple martinis and popcorn.  Bring your coziest jammies and get to know your friends again.  This is a wonderful bonding movie.

This movie sucked this particular woman "of a certain age" right in and has made me believe in love again.  Well, maybe at least to hope for it.  I wish it for all of you who don't have it as well.  Beyond that, I just hope you enjoy the film.  I must say that it's offical, I'm head over heels in love with Hugh Grant once again and no, not stalker crazy in love!  But, even if he was single, I don't look a thing like that gorgeous woman he was married to...so, c'est la vie.  Life goes on.  Hope you laugh as much as I did!  Let down your hair and step out of your comfort zone!