I am a teenager.  I still enjoy(?) the joys(?) of high school.  And let me say that Ferris Bueller's Day Off is still pertinent, as well as enjoyable.
I've seen the ending numerous times on TV, but this very night  I decided to watch the whole thing.  I rented it with a friend and loved  it.  Tomorrow I will go out and buy the DVD.
John Hughes was one of the  precursors of such great writer-directors as Kevin Smith, and this film is  evidence.  It may have different focuses and some might find this difficult  to interpret, as some reviews have said.
I say "Bull."  This  film captures high school.  Even if all the teachers aren't as boring, the  administration is still spreading the same lies that the principal  character does in the film.  He tries for authority and only pulls off  incompetence.
With humor, light youthful cynicism, and carefree but  intelligent views on life, I can attest to Ferris's own accuracy.  I may  not be as successful, but I see myself as a Buellerist(even if it wasn't  intended).
So what if the movie ends seriously?  That's what high school  is!  There're good times, hilarious times.  And then there's learning who  you are.  Coming to terms.  I was moved by Ferris Bueller's Day Off.  In a  world where accuracy often means disgusting, hack films like American Pie,  this movie captured school days masterfully.  Films that take the act of  growing up and make it a sick joke are insulting, in my opinion.  American  Pie featured the darker side of growing up.  People who are self-centered  and petty.  What a life, to start in such a way.  Ferris Bueller is shown  to be human and moral as he speaks about his friends, however.  His  analyses are wonderful, and caring while not being sugar-coated.  The film  was true but tasteful, succinctly and accurately showing the trials of  growing up.
It's over-the-top, but anyone who was interesting in high  school(and childhood in general), I'm sure, can attest to memories that  seem larger-than-life.  While it may be difficult to watch Ferris Bueller  run up slides and jump on trampolines all to get home with a serious eye,  one must admit that when one looks back at school, some things are like  that, even if only in your mind.
Ferris Bueller's Day Off works on levels  that only one who is or has been young can appreciate.