Misery is one of those rare horror films where we get every component that makes a movie perfect. The acting is sensational, the plot line comes from the greatest Horror writer of all time and works very well, the production is good in general, and the suspense is mind boggling and terrifying.

To briefly describe the plot, a famous author named Paul Sheldon (James Caan) gets into a car accident, suffering severe injuries to his legs. He is discovered and saved by a fan of his, named Annie Wilkes (Kathy Bates). Sheldon is quick to learn that Annie is a huge fan of his work with a book series called Misery. What he doesn't know is that her love for his work goes even beyond extreme obsession, and she holds an unbreakable bond to the lead character in the series, Misery Chastain. This causes a devastating conflict for Sheldon, since he has decided to kill off the Misery Chastain and the series. We first notice her psychoticism at the point where she is urging Paul to burn his latest book, as she was given the rare opportunity to read his latest piece of work which is yet to be published.

This film is put together with perfection, incorporating the small, necessary details from the novel into the film, while wisely leaving out the unnecessary ones. Kathy Bates gives a remarkable performance as Annie Wilkes, and was rightfully so honoured winning Best Actress at the Academy Awards in 1990. James Caan also delivers his character role exceptionally well, playing the suttle, shy and quick thinking Paul Sheldon. The minor characters, most notably the Sheriff do a great job adding to the plotline and making the film a thrill to watch.

Misery surpasses a number of horror movies in its sensational quality, as it magnificently incorporates the suspense amongst numerous happenings. The story flows along very nicely, and there lies not a dull moment. The climax is truly stunning and captivating and will leave you in complete surprise. Another interesting quality this film offers is to intentionally have the viewer become frustrated with Mr. Sheldon's struggle to overcome his anxiety and pain.

I would definitely have to recommend this film to all who love horror films, readers of Stephen King, or anyone who wants to see a true film of suspense and terror. Only the slowest of minds couldn't appreciate this work of genius. I also highly recommend reading the novel, as it does carry some significant differences to the film, and is just as suspenseful and exciting as the film.