Wow this is a ridiculous movie. Nazis who fled to the moon at the end of WW2 come back to conquer the earth. If you like the sound of that then this is the film for you.

Good things:
Completely ridiculous and over-the-top concept. The actors never wink at the camera and say it's all a joke. It's played completely straight (except for Palin and her aide) and derives its humour from the absurdity of it all.
Nazis are so dumb its funny. When they capture a black guy their first thought is to turn him white so that he'll be on their side. And their compulsion to salute at the worst possible times is wunderbar.
The graphics. There are some truly awesome space battles here with Nazi zeppelins, giant spaceships, and even the Mir Space Station involved. The design of these vehicles is amazing.

Bad things:
The script. It just seems to be all over the place. And the opening half hour just isn't funny, at least not once the two Nazis are on earth. The whole subplot with Palin's aide made no sense. What did she think they were that she was giving them help like that? This isn't funny, it's just vague and confusing. It gets better once the Nazis attack but there are still a string of odd moments that just suck.
The acting. I know they were on a budget and all so I won't go too hard on them for this, but there was a lot of bad acting in this film. Even some of the leads were just not right. Standouts in this respect are Pres. Palin and her aide. Palin could be fun at times but the actress seems afraid to go all out crazy. Her aide is worse since she's trying to act tough by yelling and it just doesn't work. A lot of this is bad writing but the performance really ruined it. I couldn't stand it when she was on screen. The lead guy is entertaining enough as are the bad guys and a lot of the cheesy acting works. But those two especially just don't.
The editing. This really should have been a fast-paced movie. With a concept like this there's no point with a lot of slow dialogue scenes. Which is why those really stand out, especially near the beginning.
The graphics. Again, low budget so I understand but some of these shots could have used more work. The cg background shots especially tended to be bad.

In conclusion, I think that it is fair to say without any possibility of contradiction that this is the best movie about Space Nazis trying to destroy the earth. Certainly in the top ten. I do think giving it a four is a bit generous though. It deserves something more like a three and a half. The painful Nazis on earth scenes that added nothing to the plot and the inconsistent pacing make this a lot less enjoyable than it should be. Still, it's better than a three so I'll err on the positive side. Entertaining film, go see it.