I just finished watching Restrepo, which, as you probably already know, is a documentary made by Sebastian Junger about the 2nd Platoon, B Company, 2nd Battalion, 503rd (Airborne) Infantry, 173rd Airborne Brigade, during its tour of duty in Afghanistan.  If you have not seen it, this movie is well worth watching.  If you have Amazon Prime, it is also free.

 While I was watching it was one of the few times that I have ever wished that I was younger, about 25 or 30 years younger in this case.  With a good, well-trained airborne rifle company or platoon, it could be a very interesting war Afghanistan.  I do not mean to minimize what the guys in Afghanistan have done, or the danger inherent in any kind of combat, but the area they were working in, the Korengal Valley, was just tailor made for creative, light infantry, operations.  The terrain is incredibly mountainous, and the ability to move and operate in that kind of terrain with those kinds of sighting distances, is part of what makes the idea so attractive.

 The idea of OP Restrepo is itself a great example of what I mean.  In essance it was simply an OP.  However, it dominated the Korengal Valley and also made Company B's position for all practical purposes both safer on a day to day basis and impregnable from all but the strongest attack.  After OP Restrepo was in place, any enemy would be required to attack two places simultaneously if it wanted to defeat either.  The enemy was never able to solve this tactical problem.

This is exactly the kind of opportunity for creative thinking that I am talking about.  The creation of the OP there, under fire, was game changing.  In and of itself, it was a fairly small move, but the enhanced visibility it gave allowed the 2nd Platoon to dominate, without excessive exposure, the entire Korengal Valley.  It also protected and offered mutual support to B Company's own base area.  Really good, really creative, thinking on the part of the B Company Commander produced a tactical opportunity that he splendidly exploited at relatively low cost.  Constant unsuccessful pressure by the enemy to remove it confirmed Restrepo's absolute value as a fighting-observation platform.

Splitting the Company into two mutually supporting positions in a sense keeps the company's combat fighting power together better than keeping the company in one location would.  While this is not at first obvious, splitting the company allowed more of the company to fight together, more of the time than keeping the company actually together would have since by being separate they would not get in each others way as they fought and it allowed the direction of more of the company's combat firepower on a weak area than would have been available for that area if the company had stayed together.  Generally splitting your forces in the face of the enemy is not a good idea.  In this case only by splitting his forces could the B Company commander bring B Company's full war fighting potential to bear on the enemy.

Few things better in infantry operations than being strategically offensive and tactically defensive at the same time. (Which is why I have never understood why Lee overlooked/rejected simply side stepping Meade at Gettysburg, placing his army between Meade and Washington and thereby forcing Meade to attack him on ground of Lee's choosing?  It was what Longstreet wanted to do, and Longstreet was right.)  The creation of OP Restrepo did exactly that albeit on a small scale.  It immediately reduced the attacks on B Company's main base camp, which was relatively much more vulnerable to such attacks than OP Restrepo and it thereby required the enemy to attack instead a position that was inherently both stronger and safer once it was fully in place.  This was really good small unit tactical planning and execution.  It is not simple to be a good infantryman, but it is immediately rewarding when you are.

 Secondly it was clear that the soldiers fighting in Afghanistan are several years older than the ones in Viet Nam, and they have actual sergeants as squad leaders in their units.  For various reason my unit had a fairly large number of experienced NCOs, but it seemed in the movie that they may have had even more real sergeants than we did, and we had far more than most units in Viet Nam.  Because we were trained as a unit before we went to Viet Nam, we knew each other much longer than the men in other units.  However, the men of 2nd Platoon, B Company appeared to have worked together and to have known each other for much longer than even we knew each other. This made taking casualties much more difficult for them.  At least that is my expectation since they clearly reacted much more in the movie than we did to casualties.  Of course, particularly during Tet'68 there simply were a lot more casualties, so that may have had some effect on our view.

 For some reason, at least at one point, in the movie they were carrying what appears to be a 90 mm recoilless rifle, or its successor weapon, on patrol.  The gunner is also carrying a rifle.  A 90 mm recoilless rifle is heavy enough to carry on the flat, it must be incredible to lug along with a reasonable supply of ammunition in that kind of terrain.  I cannot figure out what they used it for in Afghanistan.  While I was not a fan of the 90 mm recoilless rifle until Tet '68, after seeing what it can do in a street fight, I am now a believer in it as a truly great weapon for its appropriate situation.  But in order to make it effective, you pay a very high price in terms of weight, both for the gun itself and for a sufficient amount of ammunition.  I don't know what the situation could be in Afghanistan that would make it worthwhile to carry this kind of weapon, this kind of weight.  I do not recall the movie showing the 90 mm in action, however I cannot conceive that they carried it just because it was on their TO&E.  Therefore, there must have been a role of some sort for it?

They also actually used a lot of whatever the current version of the LAW is, and that I do understand.  I too used a large number of LAWs in Viet Nam.  The almost instantaneous option of reliable penetration and opening up of an opposing prepared position that a LAW gives is very valuable in a firefight.  Additionally, like an RPG, a LAW is an intimidating weapon as well.  I could easily go thru a case or more of LAWs in a firefight.  I always liked to shoot back with a higher caliber than they shot at me.  In addition, after you learn how, a LAW can be used reliably at ranges well beyond their prescribed distances.  Even at those ranges, it is accurate, and deadly.

 I was astonished at the number of times in the movie the 173rd's patrols, both motorized and foot, were moving on roads or well defined trails, even when they clearly did not need to.  I have also noticed this regrettable approach in other news photographs of Marine patrols in Afghanistan as well.  It is no wonder that the US armed forces have taken the number of IED casualties that they have if this is the general way of movement in a hostile environment.  As I have said before, being a good infantryman is not easy.  It requires constant vigilance at all levels of command, and none more so that at platoon level.  A good infantryman just does not move on roads or trails because if you do you get dead, and it must be said, you deserve to be dead, because you are stupid.

I simply do not understand why they used roads and trails.  We would never do that in Viet Nam.  I would have been relieved instantly if I had done what I saw them doing repeatedly in the movie and others doing in news photographs of units on the move in Afghanistan.  I talked with a friend of mine, a retired major general and he talked of the necessity for showing the flag ops, etc.  While this may be true, it is stupid to accept while doing that what appear to me to be eminently avoidable casualties, and this assumes the fact, unproven for me, that it is necessary "to show the flag."  Moreover, even assuming that it is necessary to show the flag, I have always resisted the idea that it is ever necessary to do something in a stupid way and this seems to be one of those occasions.

I think my point about the differences between good and not good infantry operations is that the Army withdrew entirely from the Kerengal Valley soon after B Company finished its tour.  The Army did not have another unit that could with the same economy of force maintain the pressure on the enemy.  Clearly the unit replacing B Company did not have the same ability, just as well at the beginning of the movie it indicates that B Company was replacing a unit that did not have its level of professionalism and therefore had not had its level of success.  Being an infantryman is not easy and some do it better than others.  Simply stated that is why they are still alive and the others are not.  This short documentary shows some really good infantrymen at work.  It is difficult, it is dangerous, and it is important.  We owe it to the men and women that do it, to understand rather than just mouth platitudes about how much we support the armed forces.