Hands down, Casablanca is the best film I have ever seen. I have studied films from almost every genre, culture, and time period, and none of them have been as complete a package as this classic. Its influence on our culture cannot be denied; just look at the number of lines that anyone can recognize from the film, even if they've never seen it before (including the classic, "Play it again, Sam," which no one actually says in the movie). It almost single-handedly formed the genre of the Hollywood romance as we know it today. But it's not a great movie because it's influential; it's influential because it's a great movie.

At the heart of Casablanca is an amazing set of actors. Humphrey Bogart is the man everyone will recognize for his bitingly cynical hero Rick Blaine, and he plays it to perfection. The other actors in the film are just as powerful, playing their roles to perfection. Sam is a loyal friend and confidant of Rick's who tries to protect the stubborn barkeep. Ilsa is a confused and love-torn woman who honestly seems to love both her old lover Rick and her husband Victor Laslow. Claud Raines, arguably the best actor of the bunch, pitches in an excellent role as Louis, the smarmy captain of the police in Casablanca.

Beyond the terrific performances in the film, the story itself is unique and tense. The setting of Casablanca adds a desperation to everyone's performance, and the love triangle between Ilsa, Rick, and Victor is ever-present, accentuated by the masterfully performed music, often a variation of the love song "As Time Goes By." The directing is top notch as the cameras focus on the desperation and tension in each actor's performance while at the same time breaking that tension with comedy at just the right moments. And of course, the ending is perfectly bittersweet, with Rick having to make the hardest decision and biggest sacrifice of his life.

There have been many great films both before and after Casablanca. However, I have never seen another movie where I can't point out even one criticism or glaring flaw. Casablanca is truly unique, and in my mind is by far the best film of all time.