In the 1950s, director George Pal was best known for producing the film version of "The War of the Worlds" and for creating his numerous "Puppetoons" a decade earlier. Pal would go on to make "The 7 Faces of Dr. Lao" in 1964, but his most thoughtful film (in my opinion) will forever be "The Time Machine". 
Going back to H.G. Wells, Pal insures a Victorian sentimentality that would've been present if the film had been made during the era in which it was written. Taking place on the literal eve of the new (20th) century, inventor George (Rod Taylor) invites a group of his friends to witness a demonstration of his new invention. When they arrive, they don't believe in the Time Machine that he has created. Even his best friend, Filby (delightfully played by Alan Young) has his doubts. Uninterested, they leave him to celebrate the new era. 
Determined to travel through time, George uses the machine himself to find what's left of human civilization in the far future. (After fleeing World Wars and puzzling fashons.) He expects to find a Utopia, and he finds one of sorts - but it is not the paradise he expected. George discovers he must defend and teach these valueless humans (including the beautiful Weena played by Yvette Mimieux), lest they die out forever. 
The film is an allegory for the rapidly diminishing Victorian mentality at the turn of the century, and George finds that his imagination and spirit of adventure are outdated within his own lifetime. "The Time Machine" not only reflects the spirit of Wells' own work but the swashbuckling fiction of the time, made whole with a sense of hope and empathy representing the perfect Victorian gentleman hero. This really is 19th Century science fiction at its best: filled with adventure, romance and in the end - depth.  
(This review refers to the BOX SET COLLECTORS EDITION which features a 35mm film clip, a Senitype image from the film, lobby cards and black &amp; white stills, a 27" x 40" original one-sheet and the original H.G. Wells story narrated by Alan Young on CD-ROM. The box set, of course, also includes the film on DVD with all the features that came on the DVD-only release.)