I am a huge fan of "The Lord of the Rings" and I'm sorry to say that Ralph Bashki's animated version of the story is appalling!  I'll point out why below, but first, about the Rankin/Bass version of "The Hobbit."
"The Hobbit"-- This movie is much better than the animated "Lord of the Rings"  though very annoying at times (the 70s songs can drive you crazy), and not quite long enough to include as much of Tolkien's work that they could of.  But then again, the movie was made for T.V, and are supposed to be more for children then Tolkien's novel.
"The Lord of the Rings"-- There are so many things wrong with this movie I don't know where to start.  How about the Flight to the Ford scene being enormously confusing?  How about the fact that LothLorien seems like it should be in a Disney movie, and that the elves singing sounds like a bad children's chior?  Or the fact that the characters are given hardly any development?  Or that the movie ends at Helm's Deep and a sequel was never made?  You don't even get to see the ending of the story!  Enough said, just don't buy the movie, I beg you.
"The Return of the King"-- This Rankin/Bass made-for-T.V sequel for the "Lord of the Rings" I haven't seen, but I've heard many things about it.  While I'm sure I wouldn't hate it, I don't think it was a smart move for Rankin & Bass to turn the "The Return of the King" in into a children's movie, as they did "The Hobbit," because unlike "The Hobbit," "The Return of the King" isn't a children's story, and making it into one ruins the emotional impact of the book, espicially if there is 70s music in it!  I'm not sure about this movie, I might rent it someday, but I very much doubt I'll buy it.
Conclusion: This pack contains one good movie as far as I know, and one horrendous movie.  I would just buy "The Hobbit" alone if you want to see it, but don't buy Ralph Bashki's "The Lord of the Rings" which (as a warning) isn't for children.  Instead, read Tolkien's epic story, and buy the recent live-action "Lord of the Rings" movies directed by Peter Jackson, which also aren't for children, but are much more faithful to the book than Baski's version.