George Clooney was a joke, and while Val Kilmer obviously did his best--which, with his lack of real acting talent meant I appreciated the effort but came away feeling in no way excited or even vaguely interested in Batman/Bruce Wayne--Michael Keaton will "forever" be the man in this series.  He could play dark and moody and vulnerable while still managing to light up your eyes and ears with genuinely fun lively moments where he's either joking or getting fired up.

Kilmer is definitely a presence, physically made for the superhero, but he's not an entertaining presence.  He's incapable of making me smile while watching him.  The storylines are depressing; Robin is obnoxious all on his own, but it's even worse considering Batman's popularity from the first 2 films came WITHOUT a sidekick(I think Burton and Co. made a wise calculation that Robin was unnecessary) and so his mere presence doesn't work; Nicole Kidman tries hard, but she just offers more seriousness on top of all the other dead seriousness, bringing down the rest of the film(do we even need more Bruce-backstory?)...the romance with her and Bruce is flat, plus Chase Meridian has to be one of the dumbest names any person, real or fake, has ever been given!

Jim Carey is perfect for Riddler, but the material he's given isn't all that amusing so Carey has to work extra-hard and ends up as an over-the-top, less-than-memorable villain.  Don't even get me started on Two-Face...Tommy Lee Jones deserves better.  What was he thinking?

The film IS a visual masterpiece but people don't go to movies to watch the sets and cinematography--especially a Batman film.  Ultimately, I think this film brought the downfall of the Batman franchise, not the next one.  Just like with Superman, the first 2 films were wonderful and imaginative, drawing you in with compelling characters and stories--and with a level of pure comic book-style entertainment.  The proof in how destructive the third films were can be seen in how little anticipation and excitement there was for "Superman IV" and "Batman and Robin".  "Batman Forever" was a must-see for me and my friends because the first 2 rocked!  Especially "Batman Returns".  But we came away with mixed feelings from number 3.  So when the fourth installment came around, it's like "WHO CARES?!".  What's the point?  All the luster and energy disappeared.  Superman IV certainly was better than Superman III, but the damage had been done with how awful the third film was.  Then, it makes people believe it's all downhill from here and what comes next isn't worth our hard-earned money.  That shouldn't happen if the previous film is good--Batman Forever failed to keep people on the Batman bandwagon and the series died.  And nobody seems to care, they're even relieved it's been put out to pasteur.

The film can be a great watch at times, whether from cool stunts and gadgetry to the futuristic Gotham to the antics of the villains...but the entire film gets bogged down in being either extremely surreal(the villains) or extremely depressing(Robin losing his whole family, among other things) and boring(backstory and "romance").  In the end, it just doesn't compare to the Batman given to us by Burton and Keaton.