A great many audiences are quick to judge a film based solely on its special effects.  Zardoz hasn't many to offer.  A great many audiences like to say they want a story told to them over the course of the film.  Zardoz  has a story, it's just not tailored to the audience as well as most popular  science-fiction.  A great many audiences will say that the performances of  actors is paramount to how much they enjoy a film.  Zardoz relishes in a  distant sort of melodrama where educated minds of the future speak slowly  and intensely (IE not naturalistically).  A great many audiences do not  care for this film.  It could be argued that such audiences are simply not  prepared to accept the Zardoz experience, but those who are will be  presently rewarded.  Sean Connery is cast in the role he's always been  perfect for: sex beast.  He is introduced to a culture that has rejected  the brutality of physical contact in favor of developing their minds.  And  so his challange, at least on one level, is presented.  If that's not  enough to spark interest in the film, perhaps the fact that he eventually  grows into his role as Liberator will.  It is a Luke Skywalker sort of  journey, only Luke doesn't wear a shirt and wears tiny underwear.  And he  speaks in a Scottish accent.  And his path isn't as neatly trimmed.  He  is surrounded by director John Boorman's strange world where a utopian  society have grown to hate their own immortality.  He is surrounded by  strange technologies that are usually a projection effect.  And, most  importantly to Mr. Connery, he is surrounded by scantly clad women who  aren't afraid to flaunt their arrogant belief that they are superior to  him.  And wouldn't Sean like a challange?  People will know if  they'll like the film as of the first five minutes.  So unconcentional and  unlike anything else in popular cinema is the opening, that the  Independence Day crowd and the Fellini crowd will be drawing lines in the  sand.  Listen to the words coming from the mouth of that disembodied head,  if the combonation of that visual and the words "is god in show  business too?" is not setting you up for what's in store, nothing can.  Boorman tries his best to prepare you... for some audiences, the  preperation is more than adequate.  But for most audiences, the words  "A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away..." is all the  excitement they need... and about as far as they're willing to explore.