Kevin Smith said it in the commentary track for one of the episodes, and a more accurate assesment of 'Clerks the Animated Series' would be hard to find. I saw both of the origianlly aired episodes, and was sorely dissapointed when the show was cancelled. To me this DVD collection is a Godsend, not only all of the episodes(in order!), intros to each episode with Jay and Silent Bob(I think everyone agrees the intro to episode two is the funniest of the six), background info on character creation and story development, but best of all(apart from the cartoons themselves) Kevin Smith and crew doing what they do best: Audio Commentary! Anyone who's bought Kevin's DVDs(or laser discs) will know what a treat his commentaries are. Sometimes outshining the movie they're commenting on. Definatley worth the price of addmission on its own.  Well about the actual episodes themselves: 1) Somewhat typical first episode fare, establishes the main characters of Dante, Randal, Jay and Silent Bob, and Leonardo Leonardo, as well as the adversarial relation ship between the Clerks and Leonardo Leonardo. It also makes it quite clear that this is NOT the Clerks movie in animated form, but an honest to goodness effort at a new cartoon. 2) Hillarious take on all of the sitcoms that ever used the 'locked in the freezer' premise, and 'flashback to use old clips to fill time' dodge of cartoons as well as sitcoms, just made all the funier by the fact they only had one episode to 'flashback' to.
3) two words: James Woods. 4) An amalgamation of courtroom drama and Anime. "Who is driving?" "Oh no! Bear is driving! How can that be?!" 5) One of the strongest episodes story wise combines 'The Bad News Bears' with 'Temple of Doom' and a little 'Last Starfighter' thrown in for good measure. Meeting Randal's old girlfriends at his ten year highschool reunion has got to be one of the funniest moments in the cartoon. Both Randal and Dante's characters really begin to develop, and move beyond their movie counterparts. 6) Going 'OldSchool Clerks' this episode was created to answer the unavoidable backlash Kevin and company knew would come from die-hard Clerks fans. The main part of the episode deals with the Clerks staying inside the store, as incredibly exciting things that we never see, but only hear about, are occuring outside. Very funny, with refernces to 'THe MaTRiX' and Bug's Bunny Cartoons.
With voices by the original Clerks stars, and an interesting list of bigger names, such as the afore mentioned James Woods, Alec Baldwin(as Leonardo Leonardo) and Gweneth Paltrow, the vocal talent really adds to the show. The style of the animation really fits as well, psuedo comic bookish but not saturday morning stiff. 
Excelent all the way around, and made for multiple viewings, a lot slips by the first time. And as you get to know the characters like Kevin Smith does, more of their motivations become clear. Buy it, Watch it, Love it!