Bottom line, this movie is awesome! I never even really watched the Powerpuff Girls until my sister bought me this movie as a joke for my 19th birthday (I'm a guy). Obviously I thought that this movie would be to "kid-ish" for me. How inconceivably wrong I was. I never imagined how great this movie would be. When we watched it, I couldn't stop laughing throughout the entire movie. Since then I have become a huge Powerpuff Girls fan, mainly because the series is so well done, and I've never seen violence and cuteness blend so well (I don't think I've ever even seen it attempted actually). I could go into depth of everything I loved about this movie and all the references it makes to pop-culture and such, but everyone before me has done that so I'll stick to the main points. First off, as you probably already know, the movie is a prequel to the series. It shows how the Powerpuff Girls were created, and how Mojo came to be their arch nemesis. The film is non-stop action and cuteness, a nice break from the mind-numbing lameness of most "superhero" movies.  Although it is advertised as a "children's movie", I think this film is definitely entertaining to all ages, if not more so to teenagers and adults (my opinion). As I've said there is quite a bit of violence, but not anymore than the series. I think that if you let your kid watch the TV show, then this movie shouldn't be any worse. This however is only my opinion and that decision should be left to you. Another thing about this movie and the TV show as well....is that the soundtrack (the music in the background) is so perfectly orchestrated for every scene. It really makes every scene and action sequence so much more enjoyable. My only complaint is about the DVD and is of course the lack of widescreen, this is an action movie. The plot in this film is not twisting at every corner obviously, but there is an actual plot, and I guess you can find some "morals" in it too. I wont go into what happens in the movie, because that wouldn't really be a good review. I love all the characters though, especially the girls themselves. You would never think that someone could make such  adorable superheroes that are so entertaining. Mojo Jojo is also very entertaining, and the dialogue is great. This is dragging on so I'll wrap it up. This movie can be enjoyed by die-hard Powerpuff Girls fans and people who have never even heard of them before. I must mention one more thing. Someone else in a review said that if you are a "monkey fan" you should see this movie because there are a lot of monkeys in it. If you are a monkey fan, I really don't think you should see this movie. Sure there are a lot of monkeys at one point, but I'm not gonna say how many are left at the end of the film. All in all this movie is fantastic and has grown to be my favorite movie of all time (no joke), and therefore I highly recommend it to everyone. Thank you.