Consecutive cinematic representation of Canada's urban/rural phenomenon, Rabid transcends language barriers with macabre notions that encompass the young French Canadian backlash to the banality of life in towns with long French names.  The opening sequence establishes omnipresence of car culture, existing as entities that envelop the frame, the low angle shots depicting the potentiality for exodus as larger than life.  Both vehicles function by causing violent crashes by which the human body is augmented and then reconstructed thanks to the progress of science.  Here the workingman has failed to "load the Econoline van", a point hammered home by nagging wife, Francis McDormand's French Canadian twin no doubt.  Highlighting both the freedom and subsequent limitations of the young French Canadian and the problematic family unit, the film's introduction coincides with the climate of stagflation, and the subsequent oil crisis.  Deconstructing car culture ensures that jogging does kill!
Producer Ivan Reitman came up with the idea of casting Marylin Chambers ... as a cost effective way of solidifying box office draw.  Marilyn's previous "experience" worked with the Cinepix repor of soft-core sex flicks.  This taboo star-system was a compromise of cumfort zones.  Coinciding with the AIDS outbreak Chambers, walking virus, is an apologetic martyr of "very experimental surgery" going wrong, her mutated body protruding a blood-sucking phallus concealed in a vaginal orifice, common to the left armpit.  What warrants explanation here however is if science was able to create a body with a taste for blood, why did mind not develop its rabidity after the barnyard romp with the cow?  Blocking as oversight, her journey from the rural medical clinic to urban Montreal is littered with the usual drunken Indians, horny truck drivers and "arguably" the best diner food on the Trans Canada.  And after quarantining all of Montreal, not even Santa Claus can escape paying the ultimate price.
The film grossed seven million, despite production costs of under $700,000 Canadian dollars.  Consecutive financial successes can only intimate that Cronenberg's crew must have received payment in rashers of back bacon.  The financial climate of the late 1970's obviated tax incentives to be administered to cinematic investors.  By putting money into a Canadian project, subsequently boosting the trajectory of Canadian production and content, the investor could write off all investment and even the notion of future contributions for tax purposes, despite obliviation to notions of industry protocol.