Ok, I understand everyone's opinion about how great this is for someone who doesn't own (or can't afford) the seasons, and I agree. However, for people like me who do own all 28 seasons, 10 "Special Edition" movies (that I have already bought twice because I also owned the single disc versions that they released first), this would be an absolute waste of money. In my opinion, Paramount is simply trying to make up for the shortsightedness of canceling Enterprise.

Sure, the first season of "Star Trek: Enterprise" was a slow start and the second season (although better), wasn't much to write home about. The third and forth seasons were not only much better but more along the lines of what true "Star Trek" is all about. It showed us history and explanations for things in the Star Trek universe that had never been explained before. Now, I'm sure that because of the serialized nature of the last 2 seasons, the ratings may have fell a little because not everyone owns a DVR and once you miss an episode, and you're lost. Big deal! You can't tell me they didn't sell enough DVD sets to make up for the ratings.

Now, for the first time in years, there is no new Star Trek, and no new income. Not only for Paramount but also probably a lot of the behind the scenes staff as well. In the meantime they are releasing these "collectives" in hopes that the die hard fans, like myself, will buy them, because I think I have to own it all. Well not this time! Like I said above, I have already bought the movies twice because they didn't put any specials on the first set. I'm not about to spend money on the same episodes I already own, not to mention the fact that there are episodes that appear on more than one of these "collectives".

If Paramount wants to continue the "Star Trek" revenue, they should release new material. Unlike a lot of people, I enjoyed "Star Trek: Nemesis" and would love to see movies released about Voyager's return to earth, or what happened to Deep Space Nine's people after the war was over, or anything else NEW that Paramount could come up with. Hey, here's an idea, how about we finish some (if not all), of the 6-year gap we left at the end of "Enterprise". Come on, Paramount, get it together!