You know the routine: Bad cop, Good cop.  For over 30 years the movie industry has been stretching the limits to graphically portray evil. Now western viewers are weary of evil and are ready to cheer when good wins,  but we have developed a taste for violence and horror, just so long as  there's a 'nice' ending, something to cause us to cheer, or to bring a  happy tear to our eye. Well, watch out folks, the real trouble is just  beginning. It won't be in the form of overt evil; it will now be in the  form of heartwarming good. Here's what's up and what role this movie plays  in it:
The message of this movie has to do with the validity of the word  of God and changes that are coming with power. It is a weapon designed to  attack Christianity and reintroduce an ancient heresy.
But first a note  on the stigmatics: Non-Catholics will reject the concept of the stigmata.  Jesus took our pain with Him on the cross, why would He inflict such gross  mutilations on anyone for spiritual reasons. I'm not an expert on Catholic  spirituality, but what I've heard is that stigmatics have hearts  consecrated to the Lord and out of their profound communion with Him, they  begin to share in the fellowship of His sufferings. That's a real Biblical  concept ignored by most modern western Christians who are mostly  "blessing-hungry." Whether you accept the stigmatic experience as  legitimate or not, the question arises, why do the movie makers want to  create a story about it? The answer is actually found in the messages that  scroll across the screen at the end of the movie. They mention some ancient  documents that were found in the desert in recent years and which the  church "suppressed." More on that in a moment.
You've read the  story line already. It turns out that the girl is speaking and writing in  Aramaic, an ancient language spoken by Jesus. In fact, it is the lost  Gospel of Thomas. The dead priest was working on the manuscript and now his  spirit, in the company of obviously demonic persona, are trying to express  themselves through the girl to get the message out 
One thing I am really pleased  about in this movie is that the text of the gospel of Thomas was delivered  by a demon. That was one commitment to truth on the part of the movie  makers.  
This movie does not stand in isolation. It is part of an  emerging family of "spiritual" movies including "The Green  Mile" and especially "The Matrix." &lt;