In "Time After Time", futurist H.G. Wells (Malcolm McDowell) ACTUALLY invents his fabled time machine. However it is stolen during a dinner party by one of Wells's guests. Through contrived means, the machine returns to Victorian London empty--without its thieving passenger aboard. When Wells learns the passenger is Jack the Ripper, he follows the time machine's coordinates to late 1970s San Francisco in a frantic effort to aprehend The Ripper before he can continue his murderous rampage.

Once in 20th century San Francisco, however, the tension eases and Wells's predictable fascination with modern advancements (or the lack thereof)takes hilarious center stage. From there, "Time After Time" slowly swirls into comical romance with Oscar-winner Mary Steenburgen as Wells's feminist, 20th century love interest. McDowell's and Steenburgen's budding romance adds an offbeat, touching warmth to the movie but still manages to play right back into Wells's hunt for The Ripper (played by David Warner in a chilling, but restrained, performance).

"Time After Time" features several firsts for cast and crew. Notably, it was Malcolm McDowell's first Hollywood film and Nicholas Meyer's directorial (and screenwriting) debut. While Meyer would later become famous for more hard-core sci-fi flicks ("Star Treks 2 and 6 and "The Day After"), don't expect this film to dwell on dazzling special effects or dry, drawn-out dissertations on the nature of time travel. The special effects are as hokey as the method of travel itself. But the time machine is merely a plot device--albeit a beautifully-built one--that gets the hero involved in the flim's real action: the awkward adjustment of idealist Wells to a 20th century that his quarry The Ripper "is home" in, but he isn't.

Buoyed by a thrilling old-style Hollywood score (from legend Miklos Rozsa) and fabulous on location shooting, writer-director Meyer's gamble on unconventional suspense and romance (instead of strict sci-fi complexities) pays off, making "Time After Time" a surprisingly good, refreshingly imaginative movie--not at all your typical, tired time travel tale.