Rope isn't nearly as popular as other of Hitch's films, and it's easy to see why.  It plays out a little like something from the stage (because it was based on a play) and the action moves along in real time.  This only allows Hitch to build the suspense in the wake of the two students' murder of a classmate to the breaking point.  The score, with the musical number being "practiced" by one of the murderers during the dinner party as its centerpiece, gets faster &amp; more jarring as things thicken, exposing some of the deepere motives behind these "intellectual" killers.  This pairs well with the filming style mentioned here before, these long takes carefully overlaid, the most famous part of which is shot through a swinging kitchen door while farley Granger is dropping a piece of rope, the murder weapon, into a drawer.
There is a bit of both purposeful and today inadvertant comic relief in this film, the former through a prudish, wheedling maid, and the latter by the utter hilarity of the way these "college kids" live &amp; throw a party, with champagne &amp; suits.  Perhaps it'd be more popular today if it could be updated - their lives seem out of touch with reality.  Also, I can't have been the only one to catch the dominant / submissive nature of the roommate-killers' relationship, almost directly implicit of homosexuality but vague enough to avoid the censors - the same feint is pulled by Hitch with James Mason &amp; Martin Landau in North by Northwest.
If you're a film history buff, you'll love the uniqueness of this Hitch film and appreciate having the first pairing of him and Stewart for film, as the philosophy professor who finds to his horror that it's his ideas that inspired these men to kill.  Farley Granger is also deliciously evil, not unlike the vicious Ray Milland in Dial M for Murder, another set-piece based on a play Hitch adapted for cinema.  The rest of the cast is mainly composed of stock characters.  The funny thing with Rope is that from the beginning you know how it's going to play out, but the great part is watching it actually happen.  I find it gripping.