My title probably says more than I can put into full sentences. This movie mixed the cheesy, swashbuckling, heroic, sanitized-warfare quality of Pearl Harbor (the bad-guys are all ugly, creepy, uncharismatic) with the sheer darkness of genocide and military occupation of Schindler's List (lots of blood, innocent people getting killed). Instead of blending heroic and tragic qualities, with moments of comic relief, like what usually happens in an epic story, the tone of the movie just periodically jumps back and forth between the two. A Schindler's List-Pearl Harbor mash-up would be another way to describe it. I'm throwing in Pulp Fiction because the good-guys aren't heroic in the traditional sense, their main virtues (especially the heroine's) are being coldly rational, calm and calculating. The good-guys (e.g. resistance fighters) also tend to be flawed in various ways (many of them curse Rachel/Ellis with anti-Semitic slurs when they think she's betrayed them).

And then there are a lot cases of women in weird, sexually compromised situations. This might be a good portrayal of what happens to women in wartime, except that our heroine just plugs along, as if all of these twistedly awkward scenes are there to entertain us, which they kind of are. Carice Van Houten does a brilliant job as the heroine, and I would love to see her in another, less nauseating movie someday.

I also detected political undertones that I frankly found disturbing. One of the rich Jewish women who's fleeing the Nazis at the beginning is reluctant to take off a (flashy) diamond necklace when the boat captain tells her it might glitter and alert Nazi soldiers (she says "But I've worn this all my life.") Nevermind that this is a pretty believable thing for a person in her position to feel, in my opinion, it felt like the director was just rubbing my nose in a stereotype, like, just to be controversial and iconoclastic.

And then there are the opening and ending scenes of the movie, set in Israel, where the desert is enthusiastically blooming. The ending scene has invisible gunmen shooting at their kibbutz/settlement (founded with the money of Holocaust victims' families as a safe place for refugees, a sign reminds us). Of course we don't see that there are Arabs around there, just gunfire and the Israeli soldiers shooting back. Not seeing those faces is important, because up to this point, the movie was full of characters with complex, morally-ambiguous ways of trying to survive in wartime (excepting the really ugly, ebil characters, who are just ugly and ebil), and seeing Arab faces there would remind us that, like the SS officer that our heroine, Rachel/Ellis, falls in love with, and like other Nazis and Dutch collaborators, these too are people with their own stories, struggles, and complex motives. Instead, we switch to a totally subjective viewpoint of Jews forever dogged by senseless violence. (Because, unlike the Holocaust, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict doesn't have complex, morally ambiguous causes?) These scenes in Israel are only a few short minutes of a long, long movie, but they are important because they frame the whole story.

Two things that I give the movie some points for: 1) the Nazis repeatedly referring to the Dutch resistance as "terrorists", and 2) portraying them using waterboarding on captured resistance fighters. This probably isn't a very bold statement anywhere other than in the US, where the government tells us waterboarding isn't torture, and Alan Dershowitz argues that we should use torture, because it worked for the Nazis.

I'm very curious how the movie comes across to Dutch viewers.