To get into the holiday spirit this year, I wanted to find a VHS copy of this movie (VHS would've suited me fine), but I was a bit miffed when I couldn't find a copy at Wal-Mart.  But then my mom went shopping (at Wal-Mart) last Saturday (Nov. 29) and, to my slight surprise, came home with--"consider this your final Christmas present"--a copy of this Special Edition DVD.  (For a long time, as sort of a Christmas tradition, my family and I relied on our television-broadcast-VHS-taped version of the movie, with dated commercials, poor picture and all.)  Though I initially wasn't intrigued by the re-release of this movie, since "Santa" gave "A Christmas Story" to me early, I thought, Cool, with a shrug.
  I have a 27-inch TV (fairly cheap, no-frills Sylvania model, with its picture settings unchanged, conveying overall-acceptable visuals), which uses composite video (unfortunately, that's all the set has).  Since the DVD offers both full-frame and widescreen, I chose full-frame.  Video-wise, the new digital transfer of the movie to DVD is very good.  Audio-wise, I was disappointed that the transfer offers only Dolby Digital mono (1-channel), which played mainly through my center speaker (Yamaha NSA-C143).  There is a running audio commentary from director Bob Clark and Peter Billingsley ("Ralphie"), which I didn't listen to.  Also, there are multi-lingual subtitles and a French soundtrack, for viewers who like those sort of things.
  Overall-quality-wise, I feel that "A Christmas Story" recieved a decent restoration treatment for DVD.  (The next time I watch the movie, I'll switch to widescreen, the aspect ratio of 1.85:1--and I may listen to the audio commentary, though I'll probably leave the subtitles off.)
  After I watched the movie disc, I switched to the other DVD.  I then realized why this "Special Edition" wasn't priced much higher than the earlier single-DVD release (about $19 compared to $15 or so)--the "20th Anniversary Extras" disc isn't overly-loaded with material and what's available is somewhat silly and non-essential.  I was assuming there would be a "making-of" featurette with behind-the-scenes footage and interviews with all of the cast members, not just a few (including the director).  But what is included in the second disc, while it technically is bonus material, could've been better.  The longest piece "Another Christmas Story" is only about eighteen minutes long; and I wasn't too thrilled about the trivia games; and the "Get A Leg Up" making of the infamous leg lamp was pretty dumb; and although its historical documentary was interesting, I never desired to have a Red Ryder BB gun when I was a child; and there are a couple other things that may intrigue some people but didn't me.
  Yet, I'm glad to finally have this movie, despite the fact that I didn't plan to add "A Christmas Story" to my DVD collection.  But since I didn't buy this "Special Edition" re-release, I won't complain about it--because you shouldn't overly criticise a gift DVD for its negative attributes.  From a "Special Edition" dual-disc set I guess I expected more--but at least the re-release is a good-looking version of a classic holiday motion picture.
  All in all, for the movie itself, the new version of "A Christmas Story" is pretty much worth the price.  I do recommend it.