What were you thinking Quentin Tarantino? The editing and redub of the American release turns this great Thai movie into cheesy trash. I watched the American version first and was really disappointed in the film. The editing was horrible and there was no plot or transitions from scene to scene. The action was great but the worthless score by the RZA, mixing amateur sounding techno with rock guitar took away the impact of the film. The original soundtrack is much better, more subtle and there was absolutely no reason to rescore the film, especially considering the results. And why did he redub every single Asian actor's voice with American sounding accents? Tarantino showed complete disrespect to the director, Prachya Pinkaew, and to American viewers with his treatment of this film.

After my disappointment, I watched the international version. This one actually had a story, making the action so much more engaging. This is a story about a man who loves these elephants that he cares for like family; he even calls them his family. I can see why some reviewers scoffed at the idea that he would go to such great lengths for these elephants. From the American version it's hard to get a sense of how much he loves these animals, but watching the int. version his love for them is so apparent that the action is so much better because now we have a motivation that we can connect with.

I was also shocked to see that Quentin Tarantino took liberties with the film's plot, completely changing the subtitles from what was actually being said into something he apparently made up. Why exclude the fact that the main villain was a transvestite? Why say that Cam's father died when he didn't? So many of these changes were pointless and ruined this movie.

I recomend to anyone interested in this movie to watch the international version. That's the real version. The directors cut. Don't waste your time with the Tarantino hack job that's on disc one. In fact, save yourself some money and order the international version instead.