On the Waterfront was, among other things, Kazan's justification for his decision to testify. Being constantly attacked by McCarthysts for his communist's past from one side, and by former fellow-communists for revealing their sympathizers in Hollywood to witch-hunters, Elia Kazan was literally driven to create a film that would justify him. Regardless of whether he succeeded in his own justification or not, Elia Kazan created an intricate and skillful picture of American social struggle of 50s, making his film On the Waterfront one of the highlights of American neo-realism.
On the Waterfront was greatly influenced by Kazan's own life and by his philosophy as well. That's why the film became a powerful melodrama of greed &amp; corruption, of the struggle with compromise and conscience, of loss and redemption. On the Waterfront brought a depressing and critical, but much-needed message about society's ills to the forefront, and was hailed by most critics.
 Many elements contribute to delivering the message of the film. For example, the film's dialogue throughout, with the exception of a few of Karl Malden's (Father Barry) clunky lines, manages to be both raw and poetic. The film's cinematography is outstanding as well: I still vividly remember how in the bar sequence cameraman managed to frame Edie's (Terry's girlfriend) pale face and hair in the upper-right-hand corner of the screen, with Brando in lower center, as if a guardian angel is hovering above him.
 Still, the most outstanding element of the film is Brando's performance. If there is a better performance by a man in the history of film in America, I don't know what it is.  His character is tough, charming and romantic, inarticulate, and struggling with his conscience. There is no reason for you to try and relate to anyone but him, because Brando is the center of the story. All the action and incidents are based around him. What was extraordinary about his performance is the contrast of the tough-guy front and the extreme delicacy and gentle cast of his behavior. What other actor, when his brother draws a pistol to force him to do something shameful, would put his hand on the gun and push it away with the gentleness of a caress?..