This film does an excellent job of showing the overspending and poor results of public schools in New Jersey. Schools spend $17,000 per student in New Jersey, a vast sum.

There are a couple areas the documentary or web site could improve on.

I object to the idea that there are too many school districts. Local school districts are more amenable to local control. (Of course control is probably impossible, which is the point of the system.)

It doesn't seem to let us know how much a school should cost per classroom. What would a 'well run' school cost? Any organization does require buildings, heat, benefits, etc. which cost more than actual salaries.

The union person does have a point about how does one keep due process for teachers. This is only a problem because the state is employing them. The hidden assumption is that people can't work unless the state hires them. This is true in a communist country, or in the socialized sector of the economy. Public schools are a socialized sector, which is why it is important to create separation of state and school.

I suggest people read John Taylor Gatto and read about Sudbury schools.

It is hard to know what the counter solution might be based on his documentary. The system is working. It is a great jobs program. If the system wasn't working they'd change it.

Removal of 'corruption' would decrease the cost to the taxpayers. Which is helpful and in itself all to the good. But it isn't clear more can be expected.

Sadly the documentary supports vouchers. Not a good move - it will corrupt private schools and put them under state control.

They make the point that bad schools never go out of business. However state subsidies do warp things. It is true that school vouchers will create opportunities for corruption. Just like the current system. A voucher system will divert funds from current recipients to a new set of recipients. This is by definition. However the critics of vouchers are failing to accept that the current system pouring money in to peoples' pockets.

The private CERN in Camden helps kids learn. Run by community and church and costs very little - and is paid for by volunteer labor in part. If local parents revolt in Camden and send all kids to places like CERN and remove money from school system that would be a good solution. Naturally the state would try to prevent the removal of funding from the schools.

The talk about Charter Schools. They make the excellent point that public policy is that
'Bad charter schools get shut down and bad schools get more money.'
This shows how ridiculous they system is and that's it is working from the perspective of those in charge. Which is why everyone should be against 'public policy' on principle. It is a way to force the rest of us to support and pay for the goals of those in power.

Charter schools are cheaper to run than public schools, apparently 50% less expensive, and have the advantage of not corrupting existing private schools but instead creating new schools.

The problem of course is that a charter school is still a school and assessing people based on tests. But what if the tests are worthless? This is a very serious question. Watch the movie Race to Nowhere? The U.S. can continue to be rich and will get richer by any historical measure regardless of how people test - if the people are allowed to grow rich and public policy doesn't interfere.

The first example charter school does better than public schools - but it isn't clear it's results aren't still lame. Robert Treat Academy though does get very high rates but it is still hard to say if the standard of measurement is valid. They also point out that Charter Schools are safer. So even if test results aren't better, parents and kids like safer environments.

It would be great to see him address more of these points. Maybe do another documentary on these additional areas or address them on his site. Competent analysis of budget figures and manuals showing people how to do it would also be helpful. At least make the system less expensive to the long suffering taxpayers.