Wolfgang Petersen Knocked it out of the ballpark with this film! I must admit, I have never actually seen the first "Poseidon adventure," but from those that I have talked to that have, this is a very different movie.

The movie is about a ill-fated ship called Poseidon. The ship is hit by a rogue wave and sinks, UPSIDE DOWN! That's the part of the story that we all know. The characers, special effects, and heart pounding suspense are what makes the movie a home run!

The movie focuses on about 9 characters, which makes it very different from James Cameron's Titanic. Instead of getting emotionally invested in just one couple, the movie goer has to split their attachment amung these characters. It is inevitiable that you will pick a favorite two or three that you want to make it.

Regarding the nine characters, there's not a lot of background given, but there is just enough that you care about the people.  Josh Lucas plays Dylan Johns who is a professional gambler, Kurt Russell who plays Robert Ramsey, a former mayer of NYC and a former figher captain. They are the main stars of the film. Also aboard the doomed ship are his Daughter who is played by Emmy Rossum and her fiance' played by Mike Vogel. Jacinda Barrett plays a single mother who is aboard with her 10 year old son. Two more charcters worth mentioning are played by Mia Maestro (a stoaway who is traveling to NYC to see her sick brother), and Richard Dryfuss who plays a man who has been dumped by his lover and in his mind has little reason to live.

These characters all band together to try to escape from the sinking Poseidon against the wishes of the captain. What follows is absolute heart pounding suspsense!!! The movie is not very long, but for about a hour out of the hour and a half I was a nervous and emotional wreck. It is nearly impossible to predict who lives and who dies and I liked that!!! Every element of a good suspense film was here, however, I must say that the dramatic elements of this film are what I enjoyed the most.

My only problem with this movie was that it was not longer. It was kinda obvious that it had been edited within a inch of its life and I think I would have enjoyed it even if it was 30-60 minutes. I hope the DVD release rectifies that.

All of that said, my reccomendation is to go see this movie!!! This the kind of movie that just about everyone that sees it will find something that they enjoy.