catcher in the rye?
  It has been mentioned that this movie is based on the Catcher in the Rye. Afterall they are both stories that revolve around a disillusioned prep school youth. However, this movie is not a film version of the book. Holden Caulfield's character is desribed foremost by his relationships and his thoughts on the people around him. He manages to find the fleshy side of all of his aquantances, even those who he despises. His commentary is thourough and critical, yet remains sympathetic  . Igby is desribed by his relationships as well, but with these interactions we almost only see his pessimism and sarcasm. His critiques are plentiful, but we never really see him as any more than a young boy carelessly lashing out at a world that is, by his standards, so "f---ing  hypocritical".He only seems to care about  others when he is interested in having sex with them. And whereas Holden is a character plagued by paralysis and pensiveness, Igby is  only too willing to sell drugs,run away, get expelled, and sleep with his uncle's mistress. In this way, the movie and book are different, and in this way, the book is far superior.
  cast and acting
  The cast that was assembled for this movie is for the most  part famous. The casting of was very appropriate, and impressive given the film's small budget. The movie is Kieran Culkin's vehichle and he plays the rich boy smartass very well. The rest of the supporting cast are impressive and charismatic, especially jared harris and jeff goldblum. Ryan Phillipe seems to be perfectly  well suited to the WASP character that he has already played in cruel intentions. The movie has some charm and its moments. The conversational sparring between Culkin and Harris in the New York, using a yoga ball as an illustrating prop was  interesting and funny (Money bags... take me away!) . The absurd shrink at "Clipped Wings" is a fun comic interlude, and seems to be improvised.

  Part of the fun of the movie is that, although it centers around pretentious people, It doesnt really take itself too seriously. There isn't revelatory. None of the characters change (except for dying) and the message seems to be less than clear. Igby is not a sympathetic character and it is hard to be sympathetic for him. The fun of watching the movie is seeing an ensemble of well knowns playing so succinctly in an entertaining indepndent film.