I recently watched this film for the first time in twenty years.  It had the misfortune of being released one year after "2001: A Space Odyssey", and it has been unfavorably compared to it ever since.  In my opinion, Stanley Kubrick's classic film is better.  However, do not let comparisons dissuade you.  "Marooned" is a good movie.  It contains a fine cast - among them Gregory Peck, Gene Hackman, and Richard Crenna.  All three give good performances.  The plot involves three astronauts who spend several months aboard a space station, but get stranded in orbit when the engine on their return spacecraft fails.  They do not have enough oxygen to last more than a couple of days, nor do they have enough fuel to return to the space station.  The plot thickens when NASA chief (Peck) must decide on a contingency plan.  He rules out the most radical proposal of a rescue mission, but is overruled by the President who directs him to attempt one.  I am not going to spoil the remainder of the movie, but it is quite suspenseful.  The film has been criticized for having a weighty dialogue as it contains a lot of flight terminology.  However, I believe this is an asset to the film as it portrays realism, and in this aspect the movie scores big.  The set up in the space vessels is a very accurate to those that were found on the Apollo spacecraft and Skylab.  The flight control center is very similar to the real one that was in operation in Houston at the time.  The storyline involves NASA trying to recreate the engine failure in simulation to help generate a solution, monitoring the astronauts' health down to the smallest details, and talking to the manufacturers of all the parts on the spacecraft - all of which are very realistic. (How ironic is it that this film was released only a few months before the ill-fated mission of Apollo 13 when these events were carried out in real life?)  The special effects are now dated, but the movie did win the Oscar for best visual effects.  Barring one scene that is a bummer (as well as one dialogue exchange between Peck and Crenna that is a little far fetched), the movie delivers.