I've enjoyed viewing The Robe on TV since my 1960s childhood.  Recently I ordered this "Special Edition" DVD, and I viewed the movie and some of the extras late last night.  And I started thinking about the characters, and this movie's possible impact on my faith.

In this film, based upon Lloyd C. Douglas' novel set in the time of Jesus Christ, a young wastrel of a Roman tribune, Marcellus Gallio (Richard Burton) offends Emperor-to-be Caligula (Jay Robinson) when Marcellus purchases a skilled, defiant Greek slave named Demetrius (Victor Mature), saving him from the gladiator's arena.  Caligula arranges for Marcellus to be sent to Jerusalem, Judea--the "pesthole" of the Roman Empire--as punishment, separating him from his girlfriend Diana (Jean Simmons), whom Caligula wants for himself.  Diana successfully pleads for Marcellus' safe return, but the young tribune has one duty to complete before he returns home: oversee the execution of three criminals, including a "fanatic" whom many Jews hope is their Messiah.  At the foot of the cross, Marcellus gambles and wins the "fanatic's" robe.  But the Robe, and the One who wore it, have a traumatic affect upon Marcellus, forever changing the course of his life, finally giving him a purpose, something to live and die for.

I've always loved this story.  The visuals--the sets, the costumes, the action--are stunning.  The acting is good all around: Marcellus' conversion, and the deepening of his character, are handled well, as are Diana's struggle to understand this new faith, and Caligula's mad desire to make everyone bend to his will.  Ruminating on this film, I realized how self-possessed the characters Marcellus, Diana, and Demetrius are.  Although Marcellus at the start is somewhat of a playboy, he is not afraid to stand up to Caligula or even to his own father.  Diana is loyal, spirited, intelligent, and wise.  Demetrius has a good balance of pride and humility, and has a strong sense of justice.  Although loyal to their respective lands, each has a desire for self-determination, to be free--a desire that may speak to the "hidden agenda" behind this film, made during the McCarthy era.

The extras in this Special Edition DVD include a documentary, "The Making of the Robe", publicity stills, and magazine articles, including one by Lloyd C. Douglas called "Why I Wrote This Book".  The documentary reveals the struggles of the blacklisted, heretofore uncredited first screenwriter on this project, Albert Maltz, one of the "Hollywood Ten" persecuted during Senator Joseph McCarthy's HUAC trials.  Screenwriters during the 1950s resorted to Biblical epics as a safe topic in these artistically repressive times, but wrote themes into their screenplays such as the desire for freedom and "speaking truth to power" to oppressive governments.  For example, the documentary says that the trial before Caligula, in which the new Emperor demands a loyalty oath and renunciation of "this dead Jew", was meant to echo the McCarthy hearings.

Possibly The Robe influenced the faith of this child of the 1960s by, as the documentary pointed out, having the characters speak in plain familiar language rather than in "thees" and "thous", and by linking Christianity to love, inclusion, generosity, freedom, and standing up for the powerless.  I highly recommend this DVD, and I'm very grateful for this film.

Addendum: I forgot to mention the sumptuous music by Alfred Newman (uncle of Randy Newman).  The stirring marches, the sweet, pensive love theme, the rousing Alleluia finale, all add to the emotional experience of this film.