Alas, all good things must end. The latest disc, "Snakes & Arrows," has some fine moments of brilliance from our friends of The Great White North, but overall does not showcase anything new or fresh. So we resort to the offering of an exquisite show in Frankfurt, Germany, to get our fix.....or more appropriately, our rush.

The meat of the act is shown in HD and PCM, with 5.1 surround thrown in for good measure. The trio that defined pogressive rock then, now, and always was in fine form this night. To avoid repetition from the Rio DVD, a sizable portion of the setlist is not here. Too bad, because some real gems like "One little victory" and "YYZ" would have been nice to experience. On a technical level, the band is tight...about 90% of the time. Neil's age is very evident on the covers; he seems awkward playing them. Towards the end, the tempo of some numbers is erratic and off. But when you play marathon gigs like these, it's understandable to be a little slower than normal. After all, these guys aren't kids anymore.

Still, if you have any respect for the musicianship of these three Canadians, as I do and always will, then it's easy to see why they are master players the likes of which will not be seen again. They always deliver an energetic, well-paced, and very visual concert worth every penny you pay to see. Alex Lifeson is an excellent guitarist, Geddy Lee pulling triple duty with vocals, synthesizers, and of course, his monster bass chops, and the "Professor" on the acoustic and e-kits, provides some moments that make history.

The 2nd disc is chock full of goodies. The cover art and extras inside are cool. The deluxe edition also gives you the performance on 2 CD's for the road trip to the next Rush show. Overall, a great value for the archives.

I've had the good fortune to see the group 3 times, and would go again if they come here. See them while you can, because once they're retired, that's it. At least, we'll have this show to watch and crank up over and over again.