We ordered this enchanting program in February. We have had many an occasion to view it, and yet we never tire of it at all.
On the contrary, we thoroughly enjoy it, and long to view it again.

Faeries and girls... Faery tales and stories, along with, especially girls, just seems fitting. Perhaps, in this case, it was
two girls in Yorkshire that captured photographs of them, and making them seem to connect with all girls. (Almost all.) Our
daughter was captivated by this program from start to finish. Not only was it our daughter, we too, being parents, were as
little children - captured and enchanted with this tranquil film.

The Cottingley Photographs, and the true account of what the girls (cousins) did during WWI, we are not too familiar with. We
are aware of the Cottingley Photographs and the girls, but that is all. So exactly how this film fits with what took place, we
cannot say. One thing we can, this film is heart-stirring and warming, not only for the children but adults too.

The two girls, the setting, the "beck" (stream), the houses, and all seems so realistic - not poorly done or overly done. The
nice thing here is, there are other things than only the faeries. Elsie's brother has already been laid to rest in a churchyard with headstone; her cousin's mother has passed away as well and her dad is missing in war action; they are still in
black mourning garments; were not suffered/permitted to go to the beck or speak of the faeries; also, Elsie's mother starts to
wonder about angels and faeries. Only a time or so is there bad language, but otherwise nothing to be alarmed by.

This is one of those films that makes you want to repeat it and repeat it. Never tiring of it, and probably will not. Very well
done in every aspect. Watch Elsie awaken from her bed in slumber, and finding the rafters filled with faeries, or the beck
(stream) scenes with the two girls - you may find yourself lost, as a child - in this compelling, relaxing, and tranquil film.
We recommend it - whether young or not!