"Planet of the Apes" should be in any list of major movies of the 20th century because it is a poignant commentary on human behavior.  George Taylor (Charleton Heston) is one of four astronauts who crash land  on a planet where human beings are mute brutes dominated by intelligent  apes. Through Taylor's eyes, we observe the apes as they interact with each  other and with their human captives. We are treated, among other things, to  a wonderful commentary on American race relations as we discover that ape  society is stratified among orangutans, gorillas, and chimpanzees.  "You know how he looks down his nose at chimpanzees," Dr. Zira  (Kim Hunter), referring to one of the orangutan elders, says to one of her  chimpanzee colleagues to which he responds "the quota system has been  abolished! You made it. Why can't I?" That the apes are meant to be  mirrors of human behavior is constantly reinforced throughout with  inversions of popular sayings and maxims: "You know what they say-  human see; human do," one gorilla (Buck Karlitin) tells Dr. Zira.  Later. Later, an orangutan priest is overheard at a funeral saying  "the deceased once said 'I never meant an ape I didn't like."  When the apes discover that Taylor is indeed an intelligent, thinking  being, they are at a loss to explain him; he does not fit into their  theology or their scientific theories. One chimpanzee, however, Dr.  Cornelius (Roddy McDowell) believes Taylor might be the "missing  link" in his theory of evolution, and here we are treated to a  wonderful inversion of Charles Darwin. Taylor's presence triggers a crisis  in ape intellectual circles. Soon Taylor, Cornelius, and Zira are placed on  trial during which an orangutan prosecutor argues that apes possess the  spark of divine being with all of the passion and conviction of William  Jennings Bryan in the Scopes "Monkey Trial" of the 1920's. During  this trial, we discover that the orangutan elders are a shortsided and  dogmatic set whose medieval-like dogma keeps ape society and learning  static. The trial presents the chimpanzee scientists with only one option,  to prove their theories or face conviction for heresy. To this end, they  rescue Taylor from captivity and set out for "The Forbidden  Zone," a desolate stretch of the planet that hides the secrets of the  apes' origin and where Taylor learns the truth about the Planet of apes  (unfortunately, that truth and the movie's ending is given away by the  video box cover, but after almost 32 years, almost everyone knows the  ending anyway). Planet of the Apes is suitable for all ages. Children will,  I think, enjoy the action and the apes; adults will enjoy the intelligent  script (written by Rod Serling of "Twilight Zone" fame, adapted  from Pierre Boulle's novel "Les Planete Des Signes") and  hilarious and chilling inversions of human behavior. Profanity (very  little, except perhaps the last scene which contains most of the movie's  profanity, which is tame by today's standards) and violence are minimal. In  short, this movie does so well what science fiction was meant to do:  portray human behavior.