This was must-see-tv in my house during the late 70's.  This is a 3-disc set with each disc nicely packaged in its own slim case.  There is no bonus material, just the episodes, which is fine by me since that is what you are buying the set for!

Disc One
LIKE FATHER, LIKE DAUGHTER: In a one-time chance to catch up with the daughter he walked out on fifteen years ago, Alex and the gang drive a cab all the way to Miami, Florida.

ONE-PUNCH BANTA: Tony gets the opportunity to become a sparring partner for a middleweight boxing champion, but he may be getting more than he bargained for.

BLIND DATE: Alex arranges a date with the charming voice on Bobby's answering service, but is disappointed to meet a gruff and surly woman in person.

BOBBY'S ACTING CAREER: After giving himself three years to break into the acting business, Bobby goes on a mad audition spree in the hours before his own personal deadline expires.

COME AS YOU AREN'T: Elaine throws a party to impress her art gallery contacts, but fears her high-class guests will discover she's a taxi driver.

THE GREAT LINE: John uses a patented line from Tony to pick up a pretty woman at a bar, and everyone is shocked when her returns from his date a married man.

HIGH SCHOOL REUNION: Depressed at where he is in life, Loluie is afraid to face his old classmates at his 20 year high school reunion, so he gets Bobby to go in his place.

PAPER MARRIAGE: Faced with deportation, Latka marries a call girl in a quickie ceremony conducted by the bizarre Reverend Jim (Christopher Lloyd, in his first Tzxi appearance).

Disc Two
MONEY TROUBLES: Alex and Latka join John and his new bride for dinner, only to learn that the young couple is suffering financial difficulties.  Alex challenges John's pride with a fatherly loan.

MEN ARE SUCH BEASTS: Tony's attempts to break up with his clingy, pill-popping girlfriend are thwarted when Louie hires her on to the company - and she becomes the top-earning cabbie!

A FULL HOUSE FOR CHRISTMAS: Louie bets the entire company payroll in order to force his professional gambler brother to finally take their mother on a Las Vegas vacation.

SUGAR MAMA:  A rich and lonely widoew (Ruth Gordon) hires alex to drive her around and talk to her, but he soon begins to feel like a kept man.

FRIENDS: The friendship between Tony and Bobby is sorely tested when Bobby's negligence causes the death of George and Wanda, Tony's two beloved goldfish.

LOUIE SEES THE LIGHT: Before undergoing gallstone surgery, a scared Louie promises God to be the best person he can be, but the cabbies take bets on how long the oath will last.

ELAINE AND THE LAME DUCK: After watching an insecure congressman (Jeffrey Tambor) get brutally rejected by his date, Alex fixes him up with Elaine, who likes him despite his awkward, fumbling ways.

BOBBY'S BIG BREAK: When Bobby lands a regular role on a soap opera, he tears up his hack license in Louie's face, only to discover that his character is being killed off.

Disc Three
MAMA GRAVAS: Latka's surprisingly young and attractive mother visits from the old country and begins a casual fling with Alex.  But Latka thinks the relationship is mch more serious than it is.

ALEX TASTES DEATH AND FINDS A NICE RESTAURANT: After being robbed and injured by a passenger, Alex quits the cab company for a less dangerous job.  He ends up as a waiter at a posh French restaurant.

HOLLYWOOD CALLING: Everyone in the garage gets Hollywood fever when a major movie director (Martin Mull) studies the group for an upcoming film about cabbies.

SUBSTITUTE FATHER: While Elaine is out of town, the cabbies take turns looking after her 10 year old son.  They're all so enchanted with him that they distract him from his upcoming spelling bee.

MEMORIES OF CAB 804 PART ONE: After an accident trashes the oldest and most beloved taxi in the company fleet, the cabbies reminisce about their most memorable experiences in the car.

MEMORIES OF CAB 804 PART TWO: While Latka works to save Cab 804, the cabbies continue to reminisce about their experiences in the taxi.  Guests: Tom Selleck, Mandy Patinkin.