Boy loving girl Bianca Stratford,played by Larisa oleynik is not allowed  to date by her father, and she is the only girl who isn't dating in the  school. While her Boy hating sis Katarina Stratdford,played by Julia Stiles  is allowed to date guys, but as she doesn't like boys, she doesn't even get  near them.  later, there is a new rule in the house, which is 'Bianca can  date.....when her sister does', still Bianca's in the hard side.The new boy  in high school Cameron played by Joseph Gordon Levitt, falls in love with  her, and asks her out, but she can't go out with any guy until her sis  doesn't date. Now Cameron looks for a guy suitable for Katarina, and founds  one in the lab class. his first meeting fails, so he with the help of his  friend Michael Eckman, played by David Kramholtz find someone with money  and is stupid.they find Joey Donnor, played by Andrew Keegan and tell him  the whole story. finding this chance for dating Bianca,Joey goes to Patrick  Verona, played by Heath Ledger. Joey gives some money to Patrick to take  out Katarina. Patrick agrees and does so, mean while things go a bit weird  for Cameron, he gets a feeling that he would never get to take Bianca out.  Meanwhile with Patrik and Julia, things first start hard, but slowly they  go soft, and they both start loving each other. On a prom night Patrick and  Julia meet each other for the first time as a date, while Bianca and  Cameron are both dating too.Joey finds out thet Cameron's out with Bianca,  and he goes to Patrik and tells him that he wasn't paying to take Katarina  out so that someone else would go out with Bianca. this really gets  serious.Katarina gets to know that she was taken out by someone who was  getting paid for it,Cameron gets punched in the face by Joey,but Bianca  cuts in and beats up joey, right between the legs. this ends the fight.  Bianca and Cameron get to kiss each other, but things go hard with Patrick  and Katarina. the next day Patrick takes back her heart by gifting her with  her fave guitar. atlast they are lovers again, and also get to kiss eah  other.  the review ain't that cool like the movie itself, so if you  want to understand this review, watch the movie. the cast, especially  Larisa Oleynik, the magic girl in 'secret world of alex mack' and Joseph  Gordon Levitt, the alien in the '3rd rock from the sun' did a cool job in  it. i'm sure this review would help you watch the movie, and you will love  it.