For all the hoopla surrounding Clint Eastwood's post-1990 oeuvre of films (UNFORGIVEN, MYSTIC RIVER, MILLION DOLLAR BABY, etc.), it is ironic that his true best-directed and best film of this time period is one that didn't garner any major Academy Award nominations, A PERFECT WORLD (1993). Set in 1963 Texas, this film also contains the BEST performance of any Eastwood film post-1990, that by none other than the famous Kevin Costner, who stars as escaped prisoner Butch Haynes. Costner delivers a truly memorable performance, playing Butch as a disturbed man with layers of humanity that you don't see in most on-screen "villains". Costner tweaks his own everyday Joe persona just enough to make Butch simultaneously charming and frightening. I found Costner's Butch way scarier than more in-your-face style villains and psychos (Hannibal Lecter, the Joker, et al!). The reason is that Butch could go off at any moment in an all too realistic way the way that REAL people do! I'd say it was the most underrated performance of the 90s! Costner was robbed of a Best Actor nomination.

Costner gets great support from young T.J. Lowther (who plays Phillip/Buzz, the kid that Butch kidnaps). With minimal dialogue during most of the film, Lowther exudes a lot with very little. His quietness, silence, and reactions to Butch's conversation and actions spoke volumes! I'll never understand why performances have to be so over-the-top and bombastic to get Oscar nominations or win! Costner and Lowther's performances are TIMELESS. Re-watch this film and you'll see what I'm talking about! The way Butch and Phillip interact in this film is about as genuine as I've seen an adult and child interact in any film.

A major reason that I find A PERFECT WORLD to be Eastwood's most "perfect" film post-1990 is, in addition to it's inviting main characters, it also has what I think is the most perfect overall cast down to the most minute role. I can't say that of films such as UNFORGIVEN (which has too many minor characters, some of which are just retreads of others and also a major character that I find not of great use) or MYSTIC RIVER (which has 2 main characters that are the most annoying of the movie, not to mention that it is convoluted, manipulative and cloying as hell!). In A PERFECT WORLD, I always remember how convincing the Texas storeowners and denizens that Butch and Buzz came across reactions were to them. From their first encounter with the storeowner who essentially witnessed Butch kill his fellow escapee to the lusty owner of that roadside diner that had the hots for Butch. It is rare to see such an eclectic group of genuine characters like this that add to a film, rather than detract from it.

Eastwood himself as Texas Ranger Red Garnett, Butch's main pursuer, plays his role with just the right amount of world-weariness and veteran savvy that is a staple of the legend himself. Red's parallel tale of pursuit (with well cast character actors such as Laura Dern and Bradley Whitford along for the ride) is the perfect complement to Butch and Buzz's central story, which drives the film.

A PERFECT WORLD is also perhaps the best ROAD film of all time, bar none! Part of what probably hurt the film at the Oscars that year is that Eastwood's acclaimed epic UNFORGIVEN (although I do have several complaints about it, it is a good film), which had re-introduced the Western to Hollywood forefront, had dominated the year before and there was essentially no way that such a "smaller" film like A PERFECT WORLD stood a chance. Not to mention that I think that Costner himself has always been unfairly dismissed (too much for my taste) as some kind of lightweight actor. He is anything but lightweight in this film. If you are a fan of FILM or MOVIES, I promise, you should watch A PERFECT WORLD!