This is a pretty good film; fun, family fare.  Steve Coogan gives a rich, quirky, poignant and funny performance.  The film actually did respectable business, grossing $72 million world-wide.  Trouble was, the film cost $130 million to make and market so it lost money.  But Jackie Chan, Ms. De France and Steve Coogan are a fine trio.
Sadly, I read an interview on the Internet in which Coogan runs down his performance saying he was "uncool."
I must remind Mr. Coogan of the following:
1.  An artist is rarely a good judge of his own art. Michelangelo was always disappointed in his statues yet they are now viewed as priceless masterpieces.
2.  Why run yourself down, Mr. Coogan?  Most folks have little or no opinion on most subjects.  Certainly, most folks don't spend much time thinking about Steve Coogan.  Hence, if you tell them that you are an astonishing genius and that your performance in Around the World in Eighty Days was brilliant, about 22% of the population will take you at your word.  The other 78% will either have no opinion or will not feel too strongly about the subject.  They are likely to passively go along with the other 22%.  Hence, you will soon develop a following.  This is particularly true in Hollywood where everyone is insecure and will follow the crowd.
3.  Why the feelings of inferiority?  This, I think, is an English thing.  "Oh, woe!  I am English and all the money is in America!  I am so UNWORTHY!"  or "Oh, woe!  I am working-class English and I did not go to the right schools!  I am so UNWORTHY!" or "Oh, woe!  I am English Catholic and England is a Protestant country!  I am so UNWORTHY! Mea culpa!"  Americans never think this way.  WE hype everything.  You NEVER hear Donald Trump say anything except that his hotels, TV show, books are the GREATEST!!  He understands salesmanship.
4.  It is a mistake to think that if you run yourself down you are creating a "preemptive strike" that will forestall others from attacking you.  On the contrary, by putting down your performance you are merely giving ammunition to your enemies who will now say, "You see!  Even Coogan himself admits he's no good."  Never hand the enemy a loaded gun.
5.  Many terrific films flopped on original release, e.g. Citizen Kane, The Wizard of Oz.  Today these are considered classics.  You must, Mr. Coogan, tell the world that your version of Around the World in Eighty Days is a terrific family film and that families will re-discover it some day soon.  Since so few films are family oriented you can really hype the wholesome message by saying, "Around the World in Eighty Days is one of the best family films of the 21st century!"  Nobody wants to attack "family" films.  Hence, keep saying that it is a delightful family picture; it should not be judged in the same category as an "R" rated film because it was meant for the whole family.  There is NO DOWNSIDE in being associated with a wholesome product.
6.  You also owe it to your fellow actors, Jackie Chan, Ms. De France, to extol the film.  By running down your performance you are indirectly insulting them.  You are, after all, an ensemble, a trio.  Since these other actors have some clout in the picture business, it is in  your interest to say nice things about the film.

I hope you will heed these remarks and TAKE MY ADVICE! Finally, you have nothing to apologize for:  your performance was whimsical, funny, poignant and delightful.