What was the point of this movie? I doubt anyone can tell me because there wasn't one.
Fido takes place in an alternate universe where cosmic dust bombards the earth in the 1940's causing the dead to reanimate spurring a world war of humans versus zombies. Sound interesting? Don't get your hopes up, all of that interesting stuff happens in the first 5 minutes of the film during a mock newsreel informing the film's watchers of what's happened since the dead have risen and how humans won the "zombie war," creating collars that keep the flesheaters in check and how they are now used as slaves.
The entire rest of the movie takes place during the 50's in an idyllic patriarchy where we get to see all the funny things that happen when we turn zombies into day laborers and house servants.
I'm guessing that the makers of Fido were trying to say something about slavery, women's lib, racism, etc. But none of that comes across as the storyline for Fido makes absolutely no sense whatsoever and in the end doesn't seem to have anything at all to say other than "zombies are people too" I guess. Sure, they're dead, probably stink to high-heaven and will eat you if their control collars malfunction, but other than that, we should learn to accept them and appreciate their cultural difference and diversity.
Fido is an exercise in insanity, borrowing from Romero's original intended satire from his first two dead flicks which spoke of the red scare of communism and the idea of a new generation eating the previous one.
I guess Fido is meant to be a comedy, but in order to be funny, a comedy has to have some form of satire that comments on our own daily lives and causes us to question the way we are and why we do the things we do while making us laugh at the same time.
Fido doesn't do that, so it's not a comedy. It's not scary, so it's not a horror either. What is it? It's a nonstop fanboy homage to older, and meaningful zombie flicks.
All that said, I do have some nice things to say about Fido. The cinematography, set design, colors and actors are all great. So in that respect it's much like a turd dipped in gold, but scratch the surface and I think you'll be able to smell what I'm talking about - Fido is stinko.