I'm afraid I must qualify this by saying I have never seen a stage production of Hair. The DVD is my only source of knowledge about the songs, plot, and characters. I've told you this because I like disclaimers about what I know-it's part of my style. But, that's as may be. 
Now, Hair. The late sixties hippy-Vietnam stage musical, translated into a late seventies hippy-Vietnam nostalgic film musical by the director of the brilliant Amadeus. The camera work and visuals are memorable. The best example is at the end, where soldiers enter the plane that will take them to Vietnam. The image of them marching up the ramp, as if it were the mouth of a terrible beast, cannot fail to move anyone who does not see the image. Hare Krishna, on the other hand, is all that I imagine taking drugs would be like, only with a church and fire. In fact, Hair features more impressive images then I can describe here without taking up space for other notes of interest. 
However, the most important part of almost any musical is the songs and dances; and they are excellent. Although the songs are the same as those in the play, the rendition of them can't be complained about. As I may have mentioned, I never saw the play. But, on the stage, does Berger dance on the table when he sings "I Got Life"? I thought not. 
And speaking of dancing on the tables, the dancing isn't bad either. Not all the songs are choreographed; however, those that are gain from both the choreography and the scene work. The opening, Age of Aquarius, loses no energy while gaining clothing; the title song cuts between a jerky (yet effective) jail fight and the singing characters; and the Melody of Dying Men, the climax, does more with people walking in a straight line then many could do with infinite range of motion. Though, to be fair, that's mainly due to the incredible camera work mentioned above. You couldn't find more great shots if you found that it's groovy to hide in a movie with Dennis... Sorry. The songs are just so good. 
Really, the only complaint I can give is the DVD itself. It's a typical "old film" DVD that adds nothing to the VHS besides a (really bad) trailer, subtitles, and the ability to jump scenes. At least it only counts the first two as features; you know you're in trouble if your DVD box considers the menu itself important. It's sort of sad that they couldn't dredge up more stuff for the DVD: it ain't got no foreign language tracks, ain't got no commentary, ain't got no documentary, ain't got no features, ain't got no bonus. 
There are a few quibbles I can make about the movie (how is Claude a Nebraskan and from Manchester?) but the director's need to create a new plot while keeping the great music, causes many of them. I forgive him-lots of films have great plots and lousy execution, and the reverse is preferable. And while Claude isn't the most interesting of people, the movie really isn't about him so much as it is about sixties culture and good times, man. 
There is really no way for one person's text to convince you of the quality of a movie; your only option is to just go and see it. And let the Sun Shine in.