From the day this film came out in theaters I have been watching it regularly. I watch it about every year and a half. It is one of Lynch's better films and if it were not for Elephant Man would maybe be his best. Although many Lynch fans may disagree with me on that one. Few films have been able to accomplish what this movie has. It is a study on the notion of forgiveness and importance of family. It's about a lonely pilgrimage which really plays on an important part of Lynch's personal life. Lynch has said on occasion that one of his favorite things to do is just sit in a chair and think (Lynch is also big on meditation). Alvin Straight, "It's amazing what you see when you are just sitting." Lynch used to go to a restaurant to sit and look at the silverware, think and write on the napkins because "Ideas are the best things going." Alvin is a walking contradiction which is all resolved by the fact that he is riding a lawn mower 500 miles. How is this possible? The answers is in the stars. If you like action movies then this is not going to work for you at all. This is more for the student of film and the person who likes to think. I would not disagree with the person who says that the movie is not entertaining. It's a slow movie. It's about an old man driving a lawnmower for goodness sake! It captures the feeling of the slow country life. There are long distance shots that really make you feel like you are familiar with the landscape. There are only a few times in which the movie makes you feel like you are riding the mower with Alvin, which was a good decision. If you are simply emotionally moved by this film then I think you have probably missed the point and maybe some of the finer details. Yes it is emotionally moving but it is more than that. It is a series of pictures pieced together to tell one tale from many different angles. Lynch took this so seriously he wouldn't allow chapters in the final DVD release. Why did he allow chapters in his other films? Because he needs you to watch it in one sitting to get what is going on. Amazing film. I have endeavored not to "over think" this movie. Think too hard when watching Mulholland  Drive and in my opinion you are wasting your time because it's a television pilot with an ending pasted on not unlike the Twin Peaks Pilot made for the Japanese market. The Straight Story can only be observed well or not. If you are thinking too hard then you are missing its meaning. This film is a huge departure from Lynch's artistic philosophy. Commonly he would prefer the viewer create or derive their own meaning like a moving painting (Six Men Getting Sick). But with Straight Story he has crafted a work of genius with clear meaning. Mary Sweeney (co-writer) hoped he would fall in love with the project and that he would direct it which is exactly what happened. Thank God for her influence on the film, she deserves a lot of credit.