I will put up with a lot from certain films.  I don't mind low budgets, inexperienced actors, flawed screenplays, etc., if the film has something good to offer.  That's one reason why I liked "Bound," an earlier low budget offering from the Wachowski brothers.

But I won't put up with a run-your-agenda-down-your-throat film from anyone.

What's the difference between a normal film and. a run-the-agenda-down-your-throat film?  Well, for starters, the latter will feature "good" characters as wonderful, happy people with no character flaws whatsoever, while the "bad" characters will be completely corrupt and evil with no redeeming characteristics whatsoever.  A lot of writers have written stories as simplistic as this - when they were nine years old.

Of course, a lot of great art was created with an agenda in mind.  Steinbeck's stated purpose in writing the Grapes of Wrath was to create sympathy for the plight of the migrant farm worker.  But he created memorable, well-rounded characters and a mature storyline, and in the process created great art - none of which V for Vendetta even tries to do.

But don't take my word for it - decide for yourself.  Might this film have an anti-Christian, pro-gay agenda or no?  Let's see:

1. The evil government is a fascist Christian theocracy, with a modified cross as symbol in the color scheme (red/black) of Nazi Germany.

2. Every representative of the government is completely evil and corrupt with no redeeming characteristics whatsoever

3. This evil government locks up/kills homosexuals for walking down the street hand-in-hand

4. We are told that this Christian theocracy arose because of "America's War," while we see news footage from Iraq

5. Despite this current events reference, apparently showing a desire to root the film in reality, no acknowledgement is ever made that this type of "oppression" and "fascism" isn't actually happening in democracies.  That is, neither North America nor Europe actually haul off and kill homosexuals, but current Muslim theocracies like Iran and Saudi Arabia do.

6. Despite this, a gay TV producer owns a copy of the government-outlawed Koran, which he says he likes for its "poetry."  Somehow its denunciations of gays and exhortations to kill them doesn't faze him

7. The same gay TV producer is taken away by jackbooted thugs for criticizing the government, and later executed for owning a copy of the Koran

8. With the possible exception of "V," every protagonist is a wonderful, well-adjusted and giving character with no character flaws whatsoever.  Even Natalie Portman is so good-hearted she forgives V for imprisoning, torturing and humiliating her, falls in love with him and commits terrorism for him in the name of their "love."

9. We are treated to an overly long flashback of a wonderful, well-adjusted and giving lesbian character with no character flaws whatsoever who recounts how she "just wanted to love in peace" but was hauled off, tortured and executed by the Christian Theocracy just for being gay.

10. The head of the Christian church is an accomplice to murder and torture, is overtly corrupt, and is a pedophile.  Oddly enough, however, he is fixated on underage girls, not boys.  But why not?  After other attempts to have the film vaguely reflect reality, why not portray what is unfortunately the norm of priest pedophilia scandals, that is, man-boy?  Could it be that to portray homosexuality in any less-than-favorable light would be unacceptable?

11. Despite the worldwide concerns about terrorists and their attacks against civilians in dozens of countries worldwide, the apparent goal of the film is for the viewer to better understand why a terrorist would blow up buildings, murder innocent civilians and take down a government (?????)

No, I'm sorry, this film was one long agenda-spouting travesty from start to finish.  I really expected more from the "Matrix" team.  I can't even get into production design, acting, cinematography and the rest because I couldn't get past the relentless - and I do mean RELENTLESS - agenda.  So, if you want to see aggressively anti-Christian, anti-American, ham-handed pro-gay propaganda that talks down to you as if you were a three-year old, this is for you.

Otherwise - avoid.