There are many movies that have incorporated twists and plots with corporate and leagle aspects reflective of current events. If you are looking for a thriller with a purpose that not only aspires to thrill...rather inspire you to take concern for the issues and characters involved in the thrill, "Michael Clayton" is that movie.
  The great thing about owning this movie is that if you missed a moment, you can always take the time to absorb it. Just when you think you got the whole story...you watch it again and find more. I am satisfied for the purchase I made of this Blu-Ray Edition...especially the price.
  If you are a fan of George Clooney as an actor...you will enjoy this performance. If you appreciate Tony Gilroy as a Director or appreciate Sydney Polleck's work...you will find this movie a treat. Like other films that accomplish the effect of character analysis; i.e., "The Firm", "Erin Brockovich", "The Rainmaker" or the Jason Bourne Movies of Tony Gilroy and Paul Greengrass..."Micheal Clayton" works effectively.
  There is a human side to this movie as well as a twisted-dark side...when both collide in the end...it makes you enjoy the journey of George Clooney's roll as Micheal Clayton...a cleaner for a Leagle Firm that makes waves of his own. If you love devious-twisted characters...especially from an actress...Tilda Swinton deserves the Oscar as the corporate executive with coldness and boldness. The ending of this movie is worth the price paid for this movie along with the hours spent to piece the puzzle of the journey Micheal Clayton endures to reason the bedevilments of himself in all relationships of his life. Note that every supporting cast member of this movie added to the enjoyment to make this a classic masterpiece for anyone to appreciate...especially Tom Wilkinson and the late Sydney Polleck who also co-produced this gem- he knows a good thriller to back.
  Remember...not all George Clooney roles are the same...he is a thespian, well diversified to adapt to any role. This movie gives you that opportunity to witness the rise of a talent. This movie cleans up- worth owning since you never know how often it will be shown on paid TV, worth owning for the added bells and whistles to allow the viewer behind the scenes access of really knowing the whole experience. Great to give as a gift for anyone who appreciates suspense thrillers and anyone who may have a George Clooney film collection...there are many. Still, if you purchase this...get it with "Three Kings", "Up in the Air", "The Descendants ", "Good Night and Good Luck" or "Out of Sight". You will compare and conclude the diversity of George Clooney and say "Micheal Clayton is a great performance.
  Just note that "Good Night and Good Luck" was directed by George Clooney..."Micheal Clayton" directed by Tony Gilroy...both with same intensity. If you still like the "Cloon-ster" as Danny Ocean...well, the same suaveness of the Danny Ocean character is applied to Micheal Clayton...just for those who like to type-cast. Just know that there is a purpose behind Micheal Clayton...to make the audience actually take Inventory on themselves and clean themselves to be better people rather then bitter people. You will not regret owning this movie or giving it as a gift.