Me and my hubby watched this movie last night. I really liked it. Now Resident Evil Afterlife do have it's weak points, and this film is mindless action and little else, but what it is is done quite well. This film have gone back to the more classical zombie survival horror type movie this time. Alice and Claire join a group of survivors holed up in a old jail, Alice have lost her Tvirus powers so while she still fight like nobody's business she no longer have the ability to just mow zombies down at will, zombies actually pose a danger to her. Other than that this film is like the rest, Umbrella is evil, Alice is though and the zombies are hungry.

The action scenes are spectacular, they are well choreographed and very entertaining to watch and this is good as hardly five minutes pass buy without something exploding, someone shooting or some insane acrobatics ending in deader zombies taking place. The special effects for this film is great, it obviously had a big budget. If you are trying to decide whatever or not to get Resident Evil: Afterlife in DVD or blu-ray I would say go for the blu-ray as the visual are definitely the biggest part of this film.

One thing I have to give this film credit for is that it really feels like a computer game, right down to a end boss. Every location and fight have the feel of a level in a computer game and as such this film really pay homage to the games. Now as to the 3D, I do not have a 3D TV so I did not see those effects, however there are several places in the film where a shot is held for a very long time and so on where it is clear that there is some 3D effect going on for those with TV's capable of showing that, however this is never so in your face as to be distracting and while you notice it is there it just blends into the movie.

The plot of Resident Evil: Afterlife is rather thin, if what you are looking for is deep, involving storylines then this movie is not for you, the plot is an excuse to have elaborate action sequences, however the plot do it's job and there is just enough of it to keep the viewer interested in the action. You are not going to come away from this film with a feeling of having seen anything deep and meaningful, but if you like action or zombies then my guess is that you will be entertained. One more note on the action also, Resident Evil: Afterlife is rather full of gore, however the gore parts are filmed in a way that feels very outlandish, I am not saying that it look fake, but it do not give that much of a shock effect so that people who are squeamish about gore might still like this film.

I must also say that I love that Executioner Majini have an appearance in this film, sure the character is a blatant Pyramid Head ripoff, however he looks both impressive and menacing and the scenes with him are my favorites in Resident Evil: Afterlife.

To wrap this review up, I think Resident Evil: Afterlife is a great action film, it has a weak plot, but it is well shot and entertaining and it just plain works. I really enjoyed watching this film, and while it is by no means perfect I think it is very good and I definitely recommend it.