I caught _Never Cry Werewolf_ back in the spring of 2008 on the Sci Fi Channel. I really think that channel's previously awful Saturday night  (and sometimes Sunday night) science fiction/fantasy/horror movies of the week have gotten a lot better in terms of actors, acting, production values, writing, special effects, and overall watch-ability. While I would never say any of these films were truly great works of the genre, _Never Cry Werewolf_ was one of the better ones they have produced in recent years.

 Several things made the movie enjoyable for me. First of all, the movie, whether you want to say it is in homage to or rips off (I prefer the former, not the latter) a classic movie tradition, namely, that of a neighbor, usually one who is somehow "weak" or powerless to act, witnesses something terrible next door but only this neighbor knows what is going on and it is up to the neighbor (and a few trusted friends) to do something about  it . The classic example is of course Alfred Hitchcock's _Rear Window_, but other more recent examples include the third _Mimic_ movie and Shia LeBeouf in _Disturbia_. In this case, a teen-aged girl by the name  of Loren Hansett starts to piece together something about her handsome new neighbor (played by Peter Stebbings). Is he a serial killer?  A cannibal? No, but close, he is a werewolf. Though  Loren first goes a fairly conventional route, calling the authorities, the evil new neighbor is pretty slick as he has done this thing before, hiding his affliction and the bodies. So the young woman and her friends take it upon themselves to deal with the werewolf.

 The young woman, Loren, was quite good. She was a pretty good actress and quite attractive (the actress being Nina Dobrev).Though at the end she might have been channeling too much Sarah Conner from _Terminator 2_ or Buffy, she was went a long way in making the movie enjoyable.

 I also liked Kevin Sorbo's character, Redd Tucker, a man who on TV plays the big game hunter to beat all game hunters but in reality is a just an actor who only plays at being a big game hunter on TV and whose star is in decline (doesn`t his name just sound too good to be true for a mighty hunter?). He is sought out by the young woman but she is disappointed to find out the truth, that he is a just a washed out phony. At first understandably reluctant to help the young lady, the mighty hunter gets involved when circumstances force him into it. At first he is involved in fighting the werewolf merely out of a combination of personal and professional self-preservation but he eventually does it because it is the right thing to do. I liked the character in part because it poked fun at previous roles Sorbo had played.

 The movie also had some real humor. While not really a comedy, it was light-hearted, didn't take itself too seriously without being campy, and wasn't a shrieking gore-fest.

 I liked it. Some of my friends are disbelieving, having seen some of the awful fare that the Sci Fi Channel has put out and wonder at my sanity for liking ANY of their movies but I really liked this film. I have certainly seen worse at the theater!