Disclaimer -- I know nothing of Michael Bay.  Apparently he has a reputation for this sort of thing?

I'm really surprised at how this thing tanked. I split the difference for my rating: I'd say it was about a 3-star movie, up to 4 and a half if action is your thing (it's not mine) -- which makes it a lot better than much of the shlock that was out there this summer.  Where it failed, it wasn't for lack of trying, and I admire it for that.

I was not expecting a good movie. I was expecting to be either really bored or really unhappy (I scare easy) -- putting up with it uncomfortably for a few hours for the pleasure of hanging out with friends. I was not expecting to be entertained -- I was certainly not expecting to be engrossed.

The beauty of low expectations is that you are seldom disappointed and often pleasantly surprised.

The Island brought up all the moral questions about cloning you'd expect it to -- especially if cloning/harvesting involved complete, adult, sentient beings walking around and interacting in an underground complex, which one hopes it will not. (I much prefer the Star Trek future where you can clone a single part, say, a spinal cord.) It would have been nice if they hadn't used the cloning aspect in all the promotional materials -- the way the film goes, it would have been a surprise. Ah well.

Set in America, in some indeterminate time after 2050 (2015? couldn't hear), the film is, or can be easily interpreted, as very anti stuff like, say, stem cell research. I'm not too comfortable with this aspect of the film. Reading between the not-so-fine lines, some people will jump on this one with a vengeance. The bad people are, for example, the ones who went out sleeping around and caught a sexual disease, for which, to cure themselves, they wish to exploit (that is, vivisect) the poor clones.

And I'll be honest -- the picture is pretty freakin manipulative. The soundtrack alone. The Holocaust allusions. The "birth" scene. (Aw! I'm still going "Aw!" There is thumbsucking! It's heartbreaking! Not to mention the literal, no-quotes birth scene, which I still don't get -- morality aside, the system going on in this world seems incredibly wasteful.) Much use of "God" and "playing God" references. The aforementioned this-sort-of-thing-is-for-sex-fiends, or "only the richest, sexiest people would do such a thing." Funny how Hollywood always seems to make being rich a moral defect, when the people involved in filmmaking, the people at the creative-decision level... well, you see where I'm going with this.

Another English-accented villain. Why do Britons agree to keep playing these roles? I still have a theory that in many (most) cases, this is not meant as an insult from Americans to Brits, but an attempt to make villains seem more intelligent, and therefore more sympathetic -- it gives them a certain amount of "levels."  But the more I see it, the more I'm finding it... just lazy. Like a code, instead of character development.  C'mon, Sean Bean, I know you can do "decent guy"!

It's an action film, and as that's not my thing at all, I could have done with a lot less of it. (I'm being led to understand that this is Michael Bay's trademark.  He should stop. Holy overkill.) It's also a longer film than I expected (I think it might have gone up to two hours if not a little more). And because so much of that length is action -- I mean, car chases and fire and crashing and building bits falling down, jeeze -- it is extremely exhausting. And makes me think of terrorism, not escapism.

And of course, if you can't suspend your disbelief you should be watching something else, probably on the History Channel. Definitely of couple of "why the heck would they do that??" and "oh please, that would never work" and "go back inside the door!!" moments. The humor is good though -- sprinkled throughout, just enough to be comic "relief" and not corny or overkill, and not enough to overpower the overall dark tone of the film. Restraint was exercised, in this aspect at least.

Oh -- and does Steve Buscemi survive any of his films? Ever? I'm just saying.

Visually this thing is fantastic. It's not "Hero" -- but it's not trying to do the same thing. "Hero" was artistic and pretty, and can be appreciated on the small screen (although 1. the big screen is of course better and 2. the small screen more and more means huge flat-screen home-theater affairs in the basement, so it's moot). There is little point in watching "The Island" on a small screen, I don't think. Even on a big-screen TV, I doubt I'd have enjoyed it as much. (Enjoyed is an odd word, as the film is pretty much totally disturbing.)

A lot of nice attention to detail too. Love the futuristic transports, and also how everything is not futuristic -- there is a blend of past (our present) and present (our future), much like the blend of past and present we have nowadays in our architecture and so on that we take for granted.

And... Neelix!!!

What we have here is kind of a more-straightforward, modernized update of "Logan's Run," crossed a bit with "Soylent Green" -- but not too derivative of either. There was room for improvement, but considering I was expecting unadulterated crap, I was extremely, pleasantly surprised.

Is it redundant to say "modernized update"?