CONS:
1- They decide to catch a "baby" great white shark to make it a media event. Yet they never bother to contact the media about said shark. The most they do is place ads at rest stops and welcome centers? Rather lackluster, I'd say.
2- They place the afore mentioned shark on display in a knee-high pool. In reality it's the real life stingray petting pool at Sea World. This is what the filmmakers used to double as a shark tank? Patrons are allowed to stand around the sides, leaning over the water? If somebody is pushed from behind, they're a goner. Hell, any kid could just reach out and have his hand bitten off! It's a lawsuit waiting to happen and severely hurts the suspension of disbelief for moviegoers. It's the only real production design flaw... But it's a big one.
3- The mother great white doesn't kill nearly enough people. It's first big rampage through the park results in only a few injuries. That's it. There were two big groups of water skiers that the shark swam directly under... Yet all escaped unscathed. Very disappointing.

Having said all that, I can't help but love JAWS 3. While it's obviously not the masterpiece that the original JAWS was, this sequel has a lot going for it.

PROS:
1- Music and Sound: The tonal underwater sound effects were often very creepy... As was the music, when it needed to be. And for the fun scenes, the score was uplifting and soaring. It may not be up to John Williams standards, but then again, most scores aren't. I'd gladly buy a CD of the music if it existed.
2- The acting for all involved was good and the characters were likable.
3- Best of all, the overall feel of JAWS 3 is like a 1950s monster movie. I mean, the shark is 35 feet long, for crying out loud! That's quite a behemoth. And the story and tone were very similar to the 1955 sequel to "Creature From The Black Lagoon"... A movie called, "Revenge of the Creature." Both took place at sea parks and involved a lot of accidental camp. It's hard to dislike either film though both pale in comparison to their originals.

In the end, I'd say JAWS 3 is my favorite of the JAWS sequels. Mind you, I didn't say it was the best. Part 2 is obviously a far more competently made motion picture. I just personally enjoy JAWS 3 more... In spite of its obvious flaws. Affection and competence do not always go hand in hand. And, to repeat what I said earlier in this review... I love JAWS 3. I forgive its flaws and embrace its jaws!