What can I say?  I'm a sucker for zombie movies.  As such I thoroughly enjoyed the low-budget, high concept endeavor that was "28 Days Later".  Was it a perfect film?  Not by any means.  I'll grant that it drags a bit at the start and fizzles a bit toward the end.  But what is sandwiched in between is pure joy.

When I heard a sequel was being released I was not at all surprised.  But like most fans of the first film, I wasn't expecting much.  Sequel films of any genre tend to disappoint more often than not, let alone horror sequels.  But damned if I wasn't going to watch "28 Weeks Later" anyway.  Boy was I surprised.

Despite a totally new cast and different director (spanish speaking at that), "28 Weeks Later" manages to dial up the intensity with a clever and plausible view into the not too distant future.  The movie picks up of course, 28 weeks after the first outbreak of the rage virus.  This time the story focuses on the clean-up and reintegration of citizens back in to London to start over.

But the writer/s were clever in their approach.  While the film still has large scale scope, the story focuses mainly on one family and allows us to really emotionally connect to them, rather than just sit and wait for them to become zombie food.  In addition we discover that this family will play a critical role in the fate of the world versus the rage virus.

So why is the sequel better?  No secrets here.  The characters and story are simply better written, acted and executed.  Further, the film clocks in at a very tight 1 hour and 32 minutes.  But worry not, there's still plenty of gore to go around.  I would have to say though, that the best aspect of the sequel is the cinematography.  It's exquisite...and I don't mean for a horror flick.  I mean for any type of film period.  Inventive and clever shots abound in this film which keeps perspective fresh and always engaging.

I can't envision anyone who loved the first film not loving this sequel even more.  "28 Weeks Later" accomplishes what has proven nearly impossible in film making.  It not only maintains the continuity and feel of the first film, but also manages to carve out it's own identity rather than just regurgitate the first film in a different wrapper.  No small feat these days.  I believe that the two films as a package are must own material.