Nina Percopo

Eng, Movie Review

 Vincent Gallo Christina Ricci

In

Buffalo'66

Criminal find redemption on the road to hell and back. Billy, the main character that has just been released from five-year sentence in jail, slowly opens his heart to a girl he kidnaps. The scene that I believe depicts its slow change in him is the bathtub scene. Billy briskly walks into the hotel's bathroom and slams the door and begins to gee the bath ready.Layla, the kidnapped girl who is beginning to have feelings for Billy, asks t come in the bathroom because she's cold. Billy yells back at her not to come in. The next scene she is in the bathroom with him. Layla then asks to come in with him and he replies, :I'm taking a bath, I don't take baths with other people!" Next, she is in the tub with him, he seems uncomfortable, but he les this happen. One may believe this is the first example of Billy opening his heart to Layla, or anyone for that matter.

 Lion Gates Films presents, Buffalo'66 directed by Vincent Gallo himself, who also plays Billy, starring Christina Ricci, as the young tap dancer who's kidnapped by Billy, and his parents played by, Anjelica Huston, and Ben Gazzara, and produced in 1997. Vincent Gallo not only is the main character but also directs and produces the whole movie, and although it is not quite mainstream, it's worth viewing.

 This autobiographical account of Billy is his journey after being in jail for five years because of a bet of 10,000 dollars, on a Buffalo Bills, football game. They lost because of a lousy field goal kick. In jail he find out that the field goal was rigged and the player was paid to throw the game. When he leaves jail he decides he's going to kill the player, then kill himself. Layla, played by Ricci, steals Billy's heart, and things take a big turn in his new free life.

 One can believe that the way the parents acted their roles was very important to the movie. The film is not long at all and there is a short period of time to figure out why Billy is so violent, vicious, cruel, and hard headed. The view learns why, when we meet his parents. They don't pay any attention to Billy when he arrives with his, "wife", Layla. Another example is when he calls beforehand, they don't even know who he is, their own son.  Billy's mother is a fanatic of the Buffalo Bills football team; she missed a very important game in the season. She missed this game because she was giving birth to Billy, and she's watching a recording of that game, she whimpers, " I wish I never had him". This is one of the reason's Billy feels like he has no reason to live anymore, which he even state's in a bathroom scene at a Denny's. Billy's never been told he was loved by someone until Layla says it; this idea is very well portrayed in the movie, and his journey with opening up to love is very touching.

 Not only dose his film keep you hooked to the plot, and on the edge of your seat, but also it's a movie that hit's home. The viewer becomes very involved with Billy from the very first scene, you wish to learn everything about him. In the end you feel as if you know him a bit more, and are proud of Layla's courage to stick with her gut feelings about Billy. I very much recommend this film to young adults and older.