'The Santa Clause' is a Disney movie centered around the Christmas season. Scott Calvin (Tim Allen) is a single parent with a son Charlie (Eric Lloyd).  Scott is a toy salesman for a large toy manufacturer. When Charlie's mom Laura Miller (Wendy Crewson) and step dad Dr. Neal Miller (Judge Reinhold) drop Charlie off at Scott's home for Christmas Eve dinner, they tell Scott that Charlie does not believe in Santa Claus. All of Scott's attempts to provide a good dinner fail, and Scott and Charlie end up at Denny's for a Christmas Eve Dinner. Charlie is awakened by a noise on the roof, and when Scott and Charlie go outside to investigate, they find Santa on the roof. Santa slips off the roof and is killed from the fall. While looking for identification, Scott finds a business card on Santa. The card states that Scott must take over for Santa. The reindeer take Scott and Charlie on the appointed rounds, delivering toys to the girls and boys, before ending up at the North Pole. Bernard (David Kurmholtz), the head elf, explains to Scott that when he put on the Santa suit he became the new Santa Claus, because of the 'Santa Clause'. Over the next year, Scott loses his job as a toy salesman, gains weight, and grows facial hair that turns white.  Director John Pasquin attempted to inject comedy into the sensitive subject of believing in Santa Claus. Trying to make a movie for all ages is especially hard when the subject is Santa Claus. I believe the use of the police in this movie was not the right approach for a children's movie, because children are instructed from early on in life that police officers are their friend and present to help them in a time of need, only to be further confused by the sight of their friend taking Santa Claus to jail on Christmas Eve.  The animation of the reindeer was superb. The fact that Charlie's step dad, psychiatrist Dr. Miller, wanted a weenie whistle for Christmas was one of the funnier parts of the movie. My opinion is that this movie rates on the low end of the Disney collection. I do believe, do you?