I usually never spend my time writing reviews of movies or products. But in this case I felt I had to vent about this utter disappointment that Warner Home Video has produced. This review is not about the movie itself so much as the Blu-ray and it's shortcomings. Especially when compared to the DVD which says a lot because there was only ever 1 DVD release of this fantastic film and it was even among the first generation of DVDs produced, and it STILL whoops the Blu-ray's ass no contest.

This release is a horrible injustice to anyone who is a fan of this movie and has been eagerly been anticipating its "upgraded" Blu-ray version. I loved this movie as a kid and I still love it as an adult. Plot & story aside, the movie is quite literally a cinematic work of art. A true visual & aural masterpiece of the fabled 80s era of movies that a lot of us grew up with. To this day there are very few true fantasy films out there, and this one has always been among the classic greats of my generation.

If ever a movie deserved a top quality re-transfer & release, it is this one. Not many people have never heard of The NeverEnding Story. The DVD release was actually pretty damn good. and I could understand why Warner Bros. stepped back and decided it didn't need a 2nd release on DVD. But then in 2006 Blu-ray made its debut, and many of us avid movie collectors became very excited about the prospect of seeing the movies that we grew up with look so good in pristine 1080p.

At first I was a bit jaded about the whole thing, because I had already spent so much money over the years amassing my vast DVD collection. And now here comes big bad Blu-ray to try to make me start all over again and make my DVDs look inferior by comparison. But when the prices came down I decided to give Blu-ray a chance, and am so happy I did because it is (usually) a massive step up from DVD. But not this one... : ( Nope, this disc is a waste of both money and of plastic.

I have seen what this format is truly capable of. Even on older movies, if true care is put into them, the Blu-ray release can make a movie look like it was shot yesterday with a digital film camera. They could have extended that level of care to this epic masterpiece that Wolfgang Peterson created. But instead they just half-assed its transfer & "clean-up" and got it out on store shelves just as fast as they could to make a quick buck off of unsuspecting hopefuls like myself. Truly intolerable.

First of all, they made NO effort at ALL to clean up the picture quality. There is grain grain grain. Grain everywhere throughout the film. Even the glorious opening credits look like trash. Had they truly given a damn, they could have taken the original negative and ran it through todays much more advanced & thorough telecine filters & digital encoders. They could have made the picture absolutely flawless. And they definitely SHOULD have. But they didn't do anything of the sort.

I mean they did a pretty good job cleaning up this film for DVD compared to the VHS release for what it was. That was back in the late 90s. We've come a long way since then and they could have taken the digital restoration efforts to a whole new level. Eliminated every spec of grain and made this film look brand spankin' new. Sure, the picture is sharper than the DVD only because it's now presented in 1080p. But that really just means more defined grain in this case.

Next up is color. Whatever lazy idiot was put in charge of this specific title, that person should really look into another line of work. Because they clearly attempted some form of crappy color correction here by vastly & obviously changing whole entire palettes throughout the film. It's especially apparent in the first few chapters of the Blu-ray  right after Bastian starts reading the book. Especially the one where the Ivory Tower is revealed for the first time. It's almost entirely ORANGE!! God it looks absolutely hideous! The once vibrant & picturesque colors are now all washed out and dull, and completely drowned out but the orange hue they implemented.

They messed with the hues & saturation levels all over the film, but it's the worst here. And this was one of the coolest parts of the movie. The introduction to Fantasia and to the story's hero and to the quest he must undertake. All garbage now. On top of all that, they lowered the brightness considerably everywhere. But especially here. Now it's so dark that you can barely see what the heck is going on. When Atreyu leaves on his horse Artax, you can't even see it because it's so dark!

I get what these sloppy fools were trying achieve here. Something to do with "The sun was setting, so we thought it would be better if we stayed more consistent with that by flooding the scenes with orange sunlight. And then by the time Atreyu takes off, it would be already nearly dark, so let's try to fix that now, shall we?" Idiots. Amateurs. All they really did was drag the picture quality through the digital mud. It's freakin' FANTASIA for God's sake! Time & true-to-life color have no meaning here!

If you play the DVD and the Blu-ray together and make the visual comparison, you will quite clearly see the vast differences I have pointed out. The DVD is brighter, more vivid, and most importantly truer to the original release. The film-makers & production designers made their choices and they were good ones. Who are these jokers to mess with that? It looked way WAY better the way it was originally.

Look. Bottom line here, people, is that this is an all around failure of a Blu-ray transfer. It does NOT enhance the experience one bit. Visually I mean. Sure it's 1080p now. But what good is that if it still looks like crap? They actually managed to make it WORSE than it was before, on the most modern medium. It's like they just transfered the VHS to a Blu-ray disc. In fact the only improvement they DID make was the sound is now the lossless DTS 5.1 mix. So if you're blind, this is a sensible upgrade to buy.

I hope & pray that Warner Home Video does the right thing in time and sees these flaws for what they are and decides to step up to the plate and give this movie a REAL Blu-ray release where there is NO grain anymore, the colors are preserved & enhanced, the brightness levels are left as they were and it just all around looks incredible when compared to the DVD and this terrible first Blu-ray release. But considering it only ever got 1 DVD release, it's a slim chance that'll happen. I wanna cry.

If I was Wolfgang Peterson, I would take more pride in my movies and ensure they when they get released to the world on a new medium, that they're getting the attention to detail that they need to have. If I wanted to show this movie to my kids or to someone who has never seen it before, I would pull out the DVD and watch it in 720p, rather than have their 1st experience with this timeless classic be this trashy Blu-ray.

DO NOT BUY THIS STEAMING PILE OF CRAP BLU-RAY. I promise you you will be summarily & thoroughly let down with what you witness. Case closed.