Aside from the fact the creature in this movie is named "Godzilla" and is a product of man-made weapons testing, this movie shares relatively nothing in common with the Godzilla movies made by TOHO. Rather than attempt to emulate the dark and meaningful 1954 movie and perhaps strengthen the message or expand on the message of the original, this movie presents itself as a mystery to the audience. I did not know whether I was supposed to root for or against Godzilla because this movie transformed Godzilla into a tragic figure, if you can believe it, rather than present the monster as force of Nature sent to punish man for his arrogance, the embracing of destructive tendencies and desire to kill. I think actually that this movie shares more in common with the original King Kong in the way it portrays Godzilla. Both creatures appear in the state of New York, one brought by force the other by choice, but both a victim of man's desire for power. Both seek something rather than destruction. Both are killed in manner which can be considered tragic. What works for King Kong just does not work for Godzilla because Godzilla was never intended to be portrayed in this way. None of the dozens of TOHO movies or comic book stories or novels or anything has ever presented Godzilla with this type of storyline or background and it simply does not work. The people in charge of this movie simply came to the table with the wrong philosophy, in my opinion.

If the movie wasn't titled "Godzilla", I think I would enjoy it more, but because of the name, I keep thinking just how much better this movie could have been if so many things had not be mishandled, including the script and monster design. With this movie's budget, this movie could have been an incredibly terrifying yet quite meaningful with messages and definite entertainment value. It is a real shame that it was reduced to a little more than a "fish out of water" story than anything else. Such an incredible amount of wasted potential!