This movie is awful. It's not a poorly done movie, it has all the traditional structure, the requisite ups and downs, but its' fatal flaw is that the viewer doesn't cares about him, his goal with it's self imposed deadlines, or the ultimate outcome. It's just stupid. In addition to being unconcerned with the character and it's goal, it's fake. The emotions are overdone and obviously so. His excitement as well as the excitementof his friends is so overblown as to be a major turn-off. Lastly, the viewer actually feels sorry for the poor guy. He's living in the past. The poor guy is in his 30s and has regressed in to a child with his recollections of being in the Drew fan club, (he's saved the mail from them with childhood pictures of Drew from 20 years ago). Even his friendsin the movie tell him it's a stupid idea to make this movie. He should have listened.

The idea that he has only 30 days to make the date is based on nothing so the viewer doesn't care about his self-imposed deadline. He could easily extend the deadline. It's not like he's scheduled to leave the country, or has 30 days to live or something, he simply says he has to go back to work in 30 days. But he's UNEMPLOYED, so the deadline is weak. Secondly, he has to return his camera to the store to get a refund within 30 days. But that's weak too because he can easily just go to another store and buy another camera.

I never had any interest in the premise for the movie and by a third of the way through, I had lost all interest in continuing to watch.By that time, I had concluded that this guy was a sad man living in the past and trying to portray himself as a well-adjusted guy chasing a dream. Nope, it's pathetic.

Many reviews will congratulate him for going after his dreams but this is missing that his goal is an ultimate dead end. Does he really have a chance at starting a relationship with her? Even if he did, what would it be based on...a childhood crush 20 years later? I mean, grow up guy, get a job, get a life, and get on with it. Jesus Christ!

One scene shows him in line at a grocery store where he sees a tabloid headline that Drew is engaged. He gets all upset about how this is going to ruin his chances at a date. The viewer is asked to care and feel sorry for him. This is the pathetic level of this movie.