I originally watched this movie before reading the book, and enjoyed it quite a bit.  Friends of mine who had read the book scoffed at the movie for its simplicity and consistent straying from the book.  I have been reading the book for about a month now (and am only about 2/3 done!) and decided to buy the movie, since the book was so entertaining. I have to say that I now agree with my friends - there is simply no way to adequately tell the story in a 2 or even 3 hour movie.  The shift from Edmond Dantes to the Count of Monte Cristo and his various other personalities (Sinbad the Sailor, the Abbe Busconi, etc.) is such a dramatic one that it would require more of a series-type film to sufficiently portray it.  I'm thinking of something similar to "I, Claudius," "the Jewel in the Crown," "Band of Brothers," etc. You only have to read a couple hundred pages of the book to understand what I mean - it is almost as if the producer would need to hire two separate actors: one to play Edmond and one to play the Count (or one hell of an actor, no disrespect to Jim Caviezel, who still does a fantastic job).

It is not that this movie is a poor one; far from it! The story-line is entertaining, the acting strong, and the writing intelligent.  But this movie is simply not the story of the Count of Monte Cristo.  So many changes have been made, and incredibly significant ones! Entire characters and subplots have been entirely ignored, and those characters or subplots that remain are often entirely changed.  For example, Edmond's interaction with the smugglers directly after escaping is an entertaining one, but it is not even in the book!

If you haven't read the book, I suspect you'll find this movie a delight; if you've read it and remember any amount of details, you'll be bewildered much of the time.  I haven't finished the book, but I'm told that the ending is also entirely different! But to those who can get past the "it's not as good as the book" syndrome and understand that a 2-hour movie can never compare to literature, I think all can find this enjoyable.