Boy, have there been some scathing reviews in this forum of this film, but a modest budget was in play when it was shot, so back off a little. Besides 2001: A Space Odyssey, Silent Running was one of those few childhood cinematic events that drove me to the theater on at least three more occasions to bask in its excellence after it was first released. Everything about it was seemingly right on the money, science fiction-wise, and one viewing wasn't enough. And when it finally hit prime time a few short years later, nothing was lost in the hand-off to the little screen except the big screen experience. Irksome though was the use of the exterior shots of the film's spaceship in an episode of the first Battlestar Gallactica series.

Well, I finally went ahead and bought the 2002 DVD release of 'Running a few years ago and had trouble with some of the now immediate chintzy elements of the film that are hard to forgive, like: Bruce Dern's less-than-adequate-looking bodysuit-space suit when he's outside the ship talking to a robot (called "drones" in the film); the camera pulling away from the spaceship Valley Forge as Dern is seen preparing a meal through a large window that entirely disappears when the shot transitions to a larger view of the ship; the goofiness of the 20th century electronics surrounding Dern in the ship's interiors; and some of Dern's wild-eyed histrionics, especially as he tries to solicit sympathy from his apathetic shipmates for a child in a photo who will never experience nature due to their employer's resolve to destroy their ship's cargo (the tears Dern's crumpled face tries to squeeze out never come in perhaps one of the hammiest scenes ever delivered by a thespian; Hormel and Farmer John would be proud).

But that's about all the negative critique I can muster. The rest of the film was bitchin'. The use of (spoiler alert) amputees for the three drones was about as clever as it gets. There was a naturalness in the interplay between Dern and the three other actors on board the Valley Forge: Cliff Potts, Jesse Vint, and Ron Rifkin. The latter group's eagerness to "blow the pods" and get back down to Earth, home, and regular lives aids the pathos of Dern's actions and the pacing of the film's plot. Using a real-life, decommissioned aircraft carrier (the actual Valley Forge) for the ship's interiors gave the film a nifty scope in terms of the ship's size. The perilous crossing through Saturn's rings was probably about the best visual special effects that could be mustered at the time. When Dern and crew arms the nuclear detonators, the tension is high, and the resultant explosions are a fair enough fireworks show. And let's not forget the over-the-radio voices of Roy Engel and Joseph Campanella ("Big Billy wants to go!") as the officious types prodding Dern on to stoic resolve. They're perfect but sadly uncredited for their great work. And using hippy era-hold over Joan Baez to warble two fine songs during key moments in the film was genuine inspiration-she never sounded better.

The big plus is Dern. Before 'Running, he'd toiled for years as an actor in small parts in big productions, both on film and in television. This was undoubtedly his breakout role, and (besides what's already been noted here) he acts his heart out. He soon became a big enough name in the kinds of parts that finally complimented the longevity of his career. It's evident that 'Running would certainly have suffered with any most other fledgling actors besides Dern in the lead. He brought loads of acting experience to the affair that made it that more terrific.

Lastly, any film helmed by Douglas Trumbull, a guy who rubbed shoulders with Kubrick during the filming of the greatest science fiction motion picture ever made, can't be all bad. If he had just had a little more money... .