Riding on the momentum of the last few episodes of the previous season, Seinfeld - Season 3 would be the first of several seasons where nearly every episode was top notch, many of which would become classics. The writing, much of which was based on things that really happened to the writers, improved tremendously as did the rapport among the cast. This led to a small but dedicated cult following which would increase during the season. Momentum had built as such that two of Season 4's episodes would debut the following summer rather than in the traditional fall season.

Disc 1 is very strong as both "The Library" and "The Pen" would become early classics while "The Note" and "The Truth" were also very good. Every episode of Disc 2 is top notch with the episodes "The Parking Garage", "The Caf&eacute;", "The Tape", and "The Alternate Side" reaching classic status with the last debuting one of the show's many catchphrases, in this case "These pretzels are making me thirsty!" Disc 3 is just as great with the best episodes being "The Red Dot", "The Pez Dispenser", and "The Boyfriend", the series' first two-part episode, which features former baseball great Keith Hernandez as well as a hilarious segment involving a spitting incident between Hernandez, Kramer, and Newman in the guise of the movie, JFK. Disc 4 is awesome as well with the best episodes being "The Fix Up", "The Limo", and "The Parking Space." Even lesser known episodes during the season such as "The Dog", "The Nose Job", and "The Subway" are very funny. As with all of the DVD's released in the Seinfeld series, the coup de grace are the special features which feature bloopers, deleted scenes, inside looks, and exclusive stand-up material. Also included is a must see 22-minute documentary on the Kramer character and the highly recommended Notes About Nothing which are chock full of information.  Also worth noting is there's less emphasis on Jerry's stand-up routine as the writing team was running on all cylinders. Despite the struggling ratings when these shows originally aired, Season 3 would be the season where Seinfeld came of age and would lead to its phenomenon status. Highly recommended.