After watching the trailer for this movie, I was really excited to see it, and I had also heard it was really good. So I was disappointed when not only was the camera too shaky (didn't make me feel sick or anything, but it annoyed me), but the story was so bizarre that it left something to be desired. During the movie I found myself more than once looking at my watch, and afterward, my friend and I stayed through the end of the credits and left the theatre with no discussion of the film we'd just watched. Later (the next day!) we talked about it, and both agreed it was just too "weird". Weird is fine, in terms of quirky, and odd. But it's hard to know what the message, the "point" of this movie was....and one thing bothers me more deeply:

 I have heard that these actors are real locals of the general area. But the people who  lived in "The Bathtub", in this movie's story, seemed so stubborn as to not only border on, but cross into, stupidity. They were stereotyped as alcoholics and dumb people. If you were from that locale, wouldn't you want to represent the people of your region in a more positive light? I don't know; but somebody else brought up this point and I think it is terrific.

On the other hand, the acting really was terrific. Wallis, the girl who plays Hushpuppy (the heroine of the movie), is truly a fantastic actor, with a wide range of emotions that she portrays well. The actor who plays her father does a great job as well, showing himself in different lights.

The first review of this that I saw on Amazon mentioned "another" great film of 2012: Moonrise Kingdom. I have to say that I saw "Beasts of the Southern Wild" first, and after that very odd and not-so-great experience, I was wary to watch another "indie" film (Moonrise Kingdom) so soon after. I know this is a page about "Beasts of the Southern Wild", not "Moonrise Kingdom", but suffice it to say that Moonrise Kingdom achieves the quirkiness and oddities of situations and characters, which Beasts of the Southern Wild fails to do.