I am so glad to learn this film is now on DVD! And from CRITERION, no less! I have not seen the DVD version, yet, but I love the film. My only copy is dubbed to Hi8 from the rather crummy, cropped-to-fit Laserdisc a friend had, and I STILL watch it several times a year. 
Criterion has always been my favorite Laserdisc production company, for their selection of eminently worthy, out-of-the-way classics; for the care with which they restore and transfer a print; and for the selection of ancillary materials they include (e.g., design sketches and viewing notes for Bladerunner). I'm sorry to learn they haven't done as well with the sound on Time Bandits as they might have. 
But mostly, I want to comment on the film, itself. As my subject line says, I've never been a great fan of Monty Python. (Except in the animation department.) I like them okay, but seldom laugh aloud. And I HAVE always been a fan of select children's literature and film.  ...Just to acknowledge my overall perspective and biases. 
First, I have to disagree with Pauline Kael's comment that Time Bandits "may be one of those rare pictures that suffers from a surfeit of good ideas." To my mind, Time Bandits sustains INFINITELY better proportion between story and ideas than does Brazil, which I thought inexcusably long, with some stretches practically barren. 
Second, I really think it's the association with Python which has mitigated against Time Bandits having found a truer audience. This film has much more in common with Maurice Sendak's Where the Wild Things Are, and to some extent with Madeleine L'Engle's Wrinkle in Time or C. S. Lewis's Narnia Chronicles, than with the Python films I've seen. Its road-story format, unbounded by constraints of strictly linear travel, allows a much freer story form, travelling in and out of myth and [supposed] reality, gleefully both exploiting each for its story-telling strengths and clobbering its delicately exposed foibles. 
Positing Palin and Duvall as historically reincarnated, circumstantially doomed lovers, first in the legendary era of Robin Hood, and later in the historically infamous [therefore perennially embroidered, and thus itself somewhat fabulistic] Titanic disaster, and in both cases having them be literally "dropped in upon" by Kevin and dwarves at the most romantically disastrous (okay, okay: NEARLY most disastrous) possible moments, is compact story-telling, plain and simple. 
The film is commenting on the simultaneous futility and implacability of love and of fighting one's destiny; the role of sheer luck (via Kevin ALIGNED WITH dwarves) in first finding oneself in one's own, odd circumstances, and then in making the best of them; the ultimate stupidity of ALWAYS running off madly half-cocked in all directions OR of NEVER doing so (via Kevin VERSUS dwarves); and of the fluid boundaries between consensus "reality" and the imagination in which it is grounded--as when Kevin and Co. abandon the last floating bits of the hapless and [presumably] real Titanic, striking out into unknown waters, only to end up swimming seamlessly back into the realm of the fantastical. 
I agree that the final battle is somewhat prolonged, but the weaving-in of all the toys from the initial, plot-reversal scene in Kevin's bedroom was a fine touch, I thought. So it required some time to do thoroughly--it no doubt enthralls those children old enough to appreciate delirious action, without being too frightened by it. 
In addition, unlike some reviewers here, I found the ending rather satisfying. It neither pulled punches, nor sugar-coated what had gone before. Ultimate Evil is, after all, EVIL. REALLY evil, not just a little bit. And even in the face of evil, life is weird and funny and vexing and confusing and rough and joyous and... all the things life is. And not just a little bit. And NOT twits-in-a-sack-race-fall-down funny, like so much of the actual Python schtick. But oddly and wisely and dangerously and stupidly and sadly and infuriatingly and perplexingly funny. Like the look on Kevin's parents' faces when, dumb as their suburban lawn and just as devoid of wonder, they reach for the still-smoking, charred lump of meat which had caused their house to burn, and Kevin yells in horror, "Mom! Dad! Don't touch it! It's EVIL!" You know That Look they get? Just before they disobey the kid and suffer the consequences? THAT's the kind of odd-wise-dangerous-stupid-sad-infuriating-perplexing way life is funny. 
And even though Kevin knows that, he's still stuck in it. And though he (and all of us) are stuck in it, the firefighter (bearing an uncanny resemblance to King Agamemnon, earlier in the story) is there to point out that the echoes of heroes and legends (and the rather more mundane reality-seeds from which they have always sprung) are all around us. Kevin, although perhaps unwittingly, knows that, too. 
And now, so do you. 
Watch the movie with a kid (or just with an attitude like one). Suspend disbelief. Have a lot of fun. Learn something. (From the kid--with you, or within you.) 
Four stars. 
At least.