Can I give something six stars????

How does one review a program like The Big Bang? I'm over 70, and sat down one night when my wife was out, and saw a clip. Then I sat and saw a segment. Then I sat and saw the show. Then I waited for my wife to come home, and we watched that over again. I don't remember what the episode was because we were immediately addicted.

We watched 3-5 shows a night with On Demand and it didn't even seem to matter that they were out of order. It's only been six weeks, and we've seen them ALL. We're depressed even though there are a few new episodes coming this year.

The characters do develop and have "quirks" in Season 2 and 3 that didn't exist in Season 1, but it doesn't matter. It's so funny that, once you know the characters, you just sit and prepare to be entertained. And as eccentric as the characters are, they're not "weird." I even knew a few of these guys way back in the 50s when I was a zoology major, when I took courses in physics and never understood them though I sat next to people who thought it was too much like kindergarten. The only character I never met in the 50s (or 60s) was a girl like Penny! (With apologies to my wife who was way cuter.)

If you want to talk "weird" it's the fact that we now watch "Nova" and stuff about string theory and my constant disagreement with the big bang theory (the theory, not the show), and we understand it. Who would have thought that Sheldon and Leonard and Howard and Raj could teach me anything?

Not every episode is hilarious, but 80 percent of them require stopping the DVDR and rewinding either to catch our breaths, listen to a line or lines over, or just to take a break from laughing. Even the ancillary characters are gut busters. The writers have outdone themselves, and have seemingly given every character a sufficient number of laugh lines to make the entire seasons almost "democratic" even though Jim Parsons has the greater share - and deserved the awards he's gotten.

The other thing is that it seems that the characters really like and enjoy each other in "real life," and I've yet to see personality conflicts even in some of the more private outtakes - which are also hilarious. But unlike the atmosphere on such shows as 2 1/2 Men (which jumped the shark two years after Charlie did in real life), there is a camaraderie among all the characters and it shows through. At least I feel that way.

The acting is superb. The whole show could be just "looks" and I'd laugh. For young actors - especially Kaley who's only 26 now - these are professionals. In reading their bios on Wiki, it would appear that they all have lives outside the show which just rounds out their personalities but, to show their professionalism, they put much of their real personalities aside and BECOME these eccentric, uber-smart, nerdy characters. (So much for my psychoanalysis: I'll leave the rest to Leonard's mother.)

Whether you will enjoy this as much as I, well, we'll just have to leave that to Schr&ouml;dinger's cat.

My kids (who are in their 40s) and I have ongoing jokes all based on these characters and the plots. They gave me this First Season on DVD. Unlike Seinfeld and Friends, THESE I can watch move than twice, three times if truth be told.

If you don't, I'll be unhappy, and then you'll have to sing Soft Kitty to me. (P.S. I said that last week after a particularly negative session with my cable provider's rep when she asked if there was anything else she could do for me. After a moment's pause, she said, "You made me spit up on my mic and monitor!)