"Alias" is one of those shows in which so much happens in such a relatively short amount of time, that if you were to miss anything more than a couple of episodes in a row you'd likely get completely lost. This simple fact is even more true of this, the second season of episodes, than it was of the first. That's what makes it so much fun to watch.

J.J. Abrams and his crew keep you guessing in every episode of "Alias."  This show has the intelligence and production quality of some of the best thrillers that have appeared on the silver screen, and the consistency of quality and of storyline is nothing short of miraculous. The list of major talent that continue to appear in this show just grows and grows... in this season you'll see Ethan Hawke, Christian Slater, and Richard Lewis (among others) appearing in relatively short-term roles, while the talents of Victor Garber, Ron Rifkin, Lena Olin, and the incomparable Jennifer Garner continue to shine. And the talent behind the camera is no less notable; everything from the writing to the direction to the music is simply top-notch, especially by the standards of the vast majority of most network shows.

It would be Wrong -- yes, with a capital W -- for me to give away any of the frequent plot twists and turns that you'll encounter in the second season of "Alias." I will tell you that you can't rely on the standard markers of a television season to tell you when to watch for "something" to happen. The final episode of the season is pretty climactic, to be sure, but no less so than one thing that happens midway through the season which changes the very nature of the show and everyone in it. Frankly, I've never seen this sort of transformation happen to a show in mid-season, but the way they pull it off in this season of "Alias" is nothing short of genius. And that's all I can tell you.  Sorry to be so secretive, but really, did you expect anything else?

My advice to you is this: make sure you've already watched the first season of "Alias" because without that you'll be lost. Many important plot elements carry over from that season to this one. Once you've seen that, try to watch these 22 episodes with as few distractions as possible. Say something or blink at the wrong moment, and you're likely to miss some minor detail that will have a major effect 6 or 10 episodes down the line. A tale is being told here in broad strokes, its creators have clearly thought it out ahead of time, and you won't want to miss a moment.