In Nazareth, a town oppressed by the devastating taxation practices of King Herod, a teenage girl, Mary, is told by her parents that they have arranged for her to marry Joseph. Distraught by the idea of marrying a man she hardly knows, Mary takes refuge in a grove to collect her thoughts. There, she is visited by an angel, who tells her that she has been chosen by God to bear his son. Despite the public scorn from an unwed pregnancy, together, Mary and Joseph travel to Bethlehem for a census mandated by the King. It is here, with a great celestial event revealing his prophecy, in a history-defining event, that Jesus is born.
More than most, this movie must address the widely varying expectations of its audience. Some will come to it hoping to see their own very precisely imagined versions of the Nativity story brought to life. Some will come to it as worship; others will come for drama, or history, or curiosity.
The nativity story movie is one of the most authentic and real movie yet made about the birth of the One who is the source of all spirituality. Further, it brings to life a mostly-Biblical picture of Mary, the mother of Jesus, and many of the other characters who have yet to jump off the pages of the Bible or the flannel board.
It has some very disturbing content in it with men killing baby boys and having mother's grieve over. It was sad too. Mary is accused of sex before marriage and a brief glimpse of her being stoned, but it is only a dream. Her mother hints that she may have been raped. Mary and Joseph almost drown in a current and there are painful labor scenes before babies are born.
In our day of respect for different spiritual paths, it's still important to remember that almost all of them circle back to the search of who is God, how He is relevant in our lives and what our response can be to experience spiritual power in our lives. "The Nativity" takes us there, without telling us where (or if) to go to church.
All in all, The Nativity Story is well worth seeing. Unlike most cinematic offerings, it has no sex, no violence, and no surprising twists of the plot. In the place of all of these things, it provides an opportunity for spiritual reflection on the meaning of personal sacrifice, consecration despite undeserved criticism, and the divine value system.