As a genera, foreign films are much more beautiful than anything produced by Hollywood. The Color of Paradise was no exception. Right from the start the audience was immersed in a heart wrenching family drama transcending both time and culture. The beauty of this film is, whether you grew up in Iran or any place else on the planet, you can't help but empathize with the plight of Mohammad and Hashem. Although filmed in a foreign land the plot is definitely not a foreign concept. The characters speak Farsi but once you turn on the subtitles even the language barrier goes away.

 The plot in and of itself would be enough to command the title of best film produced in years. What makes this film even more spectacular is the scenery. With a lot of outdoor action, the audience is exposed to beautiful countryside filled with mountaintops, surrounded by fields of flowers of all different shapes and colors. It is interesting to note how the characters utilize their surroundings by romping around in the field or taking care of the farm chores. This really allows the viewer a sense of what an Iranian peasant village looks like. As someone living in a country where there are no villages, it was interesting to note how the community comes together and buckles down to get all of the chores done. They aren't afraid of hard work even though they don't have many of the technological advances of a big city to make life easier. I found it very commendable that even the children helped without complaint.  When you find yourself wishing you were part of their family, you know that the director has done his or her job.

 This film really reminded me of how sensitive children can be. Often times adults don't realize how quickly children catch on to what you are feeling. Nor do they realize how it affects them. Adults don't always realize that when you take on the responsibility of a child, you have to give up your wants and needs in place of the child's needs. I really felt bad for Mohammad that his father was so incredibly wrapped up in his own grief and selfishness that he couldn't or wouldn't understand that concept. At times I just wanted to shout at Hashem "Wake up you bone head. Can't you see your son needs you? Get over your selfishness for once in your life and love your son."  There were times I had to keep from crying or yelling I was so mad at the father and sad for the child. I just wanted to take Mohammad in my arms and tell him everything would be ok. The characters were so real to me it was as if I was talking to someone in my own community.

 I have been a babysitter for many of the children in my neighborhood and have gotten to know them and love them as if they were my own. Watching The Color of Paradise I got that same sense of attachment to Mohammad as if he were my own charge. When a director is able to make you feel that strongly for a character you really attach yourself to the film. Often times in Hollywood their films are so focused on parlor tricks to keep the audience entertained. They want a fast-paced plot line and don't care if they end up with flat one-dimensional characters. Often what works for foreign films is that the viewer is able to attach himself to the character. What they sacrifice in plot line they make up for in scenery and three-dimensional characters whose wants fears and interactions between others are amazingly deep. It's as if you could see yourself fitting in knowing their every move and motivation.

 My eyes were opened to how a blind person gets along in life. I'm not blind and I've never known anyone who was blind. I had no idea that a blind person was capable of having almost the same interactions with the world as a normal person. It amazes me how much a blind person comes to rely on his other four senses. I rely so heavily on my sight that often I take for granted how something feels, smells, or sounds. Mohammad spent a lot of time outdoors. His only real link to nature is through his smell and touch. I can just look at a flower and tell what kind it is. A blind person really learns to identify the different smells associated with each flower. Although a blind has a different perspective on the world that doesn't mean they are any more crippled than I am. With the invention of brail and other tools for the blind, they can have the same goals and aspirations and accomplish the same tasks as any one.

 The Color of Paradise really opened my eyes to some many amazing things. I am glad I watched it and will recommend it to everyone.