This is a great collection of movies for both Matt Helm and Dean Martin fans.  Most viewers will find Dean Martins' slightly comedic approach to the Matt Helm character very entertaining.  In addition to some pretty funny moments, the movies are also full of clever songs, such as "When Your Sweetheart Puts A Pistol in her Pillow."

 These movies provide a fascinating look at American culture of the 1960s.  They contain old cars, scantily clad women, and a surplus of sexual innuendo.  The behavior exhibited by Dean Martin is also rather interesting.  In a scene from "The Silencers", he rips the dress off of Stella Stevens as an incentive for her to start talking.  Today, such behavior would be called "assault."  In another movie, Dean is drinking from a flask while driving his car and receiving instructions from Headquarters.  Obviously, drinking and driving was not an issue in the 1960s.  These films contain some of the big name actresses of the day, such as Stella Stevens, Ann Margaret, and Sharon Tate.  Sharon Tate, unfortunately, is better known for being murdered by Charles Manson and his family.

The quality of the movies is excellent and there were no problems with the DVDs.  All four DVDs fit into two slim containers.  The entire collection fits into one box the size of a normal DVD case.  Unfortunately, the set has the appearance of a rental from the local video store, vice something that was intended for sale.  "The Silencers" contain several movie trailers for unrelated films such as "Fun with Dick and Jane."  There is no trailer for "The Silencers."  The other movies do contain Matt Helm movie trailers, but not on the disk of that movie.  The set also contains multiple trailers for "Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle" and an upcoming release of the Seinfeld DVDs.  Finally, one DVD came with a small anti theft tag used to prevent shoplifting.

Despite these minor anomalies, this is a very entertaining set of movies.  Dean Martin is as enjoyable now as he was in the 1960s.  The viewer can certainly see how these films were a likely source of inspiration for the Austin Powers movies.