I must say this movie gets off to a rough start, and goes downhill fast. Half way through this romp in the snow with Danny Devito and Matthew Broderick, I was ready to turn it off and put it up for sale at Ebay, just to try and get back part of my money.
  The down side here is that I was watching it on my brand new 52" LCD screen TV, and I am here to tell you both Danny Devito and Matthew Broderick look really bad on a big screen. The movie would have been much better if the camera man had not done so many close-up shots. Really! And there were a couple of other problems in the cast that could have used a dermatologist... but if you are still watching TV on a 13" screen , it might not be so bad. (Note to Hollywood: When you have an ugly actor, back off with the camera!)
  Then , just when I thought I could stand no more close-up shots of the cast, things got a lot worse with the scene of Danny and Matthew naked, under a blanket together. That scene should have been deleted if the producers wanted this to be a Christmas movie for the family. Danny looks bad enough with his clothes on! And this was not good for children to see. (Note to Hollywood: Seeing naked men under a blanket is sickening--not funny family entertainment. Try to remember that!)
  Now, for the good part... The Christmas scenes, and lights display were magnificent, and a joy to behold. But the really great thing about this movie is that it ended with the thought that Christmas is not about decorating your house with lights...but is really about the Holiest Event in history.. as we had the pleasure of hearing "O Holy Night" sung to perfection. This scene was so beautiful and touching, I actually had chills.
  So my recommendation to you is to do what I am going to do..... if you don't own a video editing machine to clean up a mess that Hollywood has made... just fast forward through the ugliness of this movie, and try to see it for what it really is ... and that is a movie about the true meaning of Christmas.(Note to Hollywood: it's okay to express that the true meaning of Christmas is about the birth of Christ. You don't have to add sleaze, ugly close-up shots, and disgusting behavior to a beautiful movie about Christmas to sell tickets.)