Wrestlemania.  The greatest sports entertainment event.  The only ppv that's three months in the making.  The 2001 version (WM 17) could possibly be the greatest ppv ever.  It's the best of my collection for sure.  Never have I seen intensity and athletic ability in wrestling then here.
The DVD format of course have some extras you should know about.  It's a 2-disc format that split up in a weird way.  The event is more or less cut in half between the DVDs.  The first eight matches are on DVD 1, the last 3 DVD 2.  A far cry from last years Wrestlemania 2-disc.  But who cares?  Here are the extras:
Play It Now: Plays the first 8 matches (DVD 1) or last 3 (DVD 2)as seen live on ppv.
Pick A Fight: Pick a match of your own choosing
Flashbacks: How two wrestlers came to WM
Extra Stuff:
DVD 1: A Benoit interviw, extra match (Grandmaster Sexay & Blackman vs. X-Factor), and video clips of the WWF visiting Ft. Hood and WWF Axxess.
DVD 2: Bushwacker Interview, a WWF New York Clip, the Triple H/Undertaker incident, The Highlight video (usually shows a recap of ppv) and what happened the next night on RAW
The first two features are standard.  The flashbacks and extra stuff are pretty cool.  Unfortunately, the next night on RAW just shows the night in short, edited clips.  I would like to see the whole main event of RAW, just like on TV.  But enough about the features.  You want the matches:
1)Jericho vs. Regal: Intercontinental champ match.  These two are good wrestlers but I personally think they lack chemistry, at least in the ring.  They tried though and made an okay match.  3.5 stars out of 5.
2) APA & Tazz vs. RTC:  An okay match that I think was the best you get from the six.  Not to say the six men are not good.  Just not in a six-man, brawl-style match.  Didn't have a nice flow they usually have in singles (Tazz, Venis) or Tag (APA or Buchanan/Goodfather).  3 stars.
3) Raven vs. Big Show vs. Kane: Hardcore champ match.  This was pretty hardcore.  I rather enjoy the Raven strategy: hit hard, run hard.  Showed he's pretty smart.  Good pshychology of showing Kane's and Big Show's ability to hurt somebody.  Check this match out if you wanna see an interfere-free, first fall wins hardcore match.  4 stars.
4) Test vs. Guerrero: European Champ match.  A quailty matched that was well-paced, nice thought out and gave us a pretty cool new move (Tilt-the-whirl to powerbomb. Trust me. It's cool).  The match did something Regal and Jericho didn't: show two different wrestlign styles clashing together.  Test with his power and strength against Guerrero's speed and technical superiority.  4.5 stars.
5) Angle vs. Benoit:  Ever hear the phrase 'For every hold, there's a counter-hold'.  Add 'For every counterhold, there's another counter-hold', and you can explain this match.  I didn't think you could reverse the anklelock or the crossface, but you can as shown in this match.  The technical ability of these two really show off here.  Too bad it was slow to start and had a bad ending.  4.5 stars.
6) Ivory vs. Chyna: Women's Champ match.  Short and to the point.  This match served only to give Chyna revenge and to show her superiority.  Nothing more.  I have nothign against women's wrestling in WWF but please actually wrestle.  I don't like seeing one-sided matches, though annoying Ivory getting pounding is entertaining.  3 stars.
7) Shane vs. Vince: Street Fight w/ Mick Foley as Special Ref.  Two non-trained athletes fighting it out = boring right?  WRONG!  The intesity, excitement and athletic ability (mostly Shane) of these two made this match just as good as the main event.  I couldn't believe Shane doing two crazy bumps or Vince's willingness to take one of those bumps.  5 stars.
8) Dudleys vs. Hardyz vs. Edge & Christian: TLC 2!  Tables were broke, ladders were climbed, and chair were dented with head prints.  Does it get better?  Yes.  Yes indeed.  This mtach was better then the first TLC match because this had different better spots that were well chereographed and timed well.  Also, it never looked like they were setting up a spot.  Very cool match.  5 stars.
Side note: The PPV is split here to disc 2
9) Gimmick Battle Royal: Go over the top to be eliminated.  Do you want the whole list of wrestlers?  Well, okay:  Nikolai Volkoff (The Russian wrestler), Kamala (He rubs stuff on his belly), Kimchee (Kamala's trainer), Iron Sheik (Hated villian in old school WWF), Sgt. Slaughter (Loved wrestlers in his time), Repo Man (Funny gimmick), Earthquake (Big fat guy who sat on you), Gobbledy Gooker (I can't explain), The Goon (Hockey goon), Tugboat (See 'Eathquake'), One Man Gang (Big fat guy who didn't sit on you), Hillbilly Jim (Don't go messing with a country boy), Brother Love ('Taker first manager), Doink (He's a clown), Duke Droese (He's a garbage man), Micheal Hayes (A freebird?), Jim Cornette (The best darn manager ever. . .next to The Brain), The Bushwhackers (You're  very deprived if you haven't seen these two).  Fun for what it was.  4 stars.
10) Triple H vs. Undertaker:  A great match that was overshadowed by the other 5 star matches.  I bet you next year, not many people will remember this match.  It's too bad.  This was excellent.  Watch 'Taker chokeslam Triple H 'straight to hell'.  It's so cool!  5 stars.
11) The Rock vs. Steve Austin: WWF Champ match.  Never before has a match been so personal, so intense, and so wonderfully down that it makes you cheer, boos, and makes you angry at the end of it all.  Most of all, it entertains like entertains like no other.  This is a match for all ages.  It was brutal yet technical, chaotic yet orderly.  The pace was perfect and the crowd just made it even better.  Watch teh build-up to it and you get even more into it.  The storyline wa perfect shown during the match.  Stone Cold constantly showed he would do anything to win the belt.  The Rock showed he wouldn't give the belt up without a fight.  The end will shock you, anger you, and then entertain you.  You almost believe that this wrestlign storyline is real!!!  5 stars b/c that's how far my rankings go.
Great main event.  Great mid-cards.  So many 5 stars in one ppv and I rarely give up 5 stars.  A must have for any wrestling fan.