I must have received a new, revised edition of this DVD with the other previous customer reviews/complaints in mind when Universal remade it. There are absolutely no flaws, a decent amount of extras (although not exceedingly entertaining it is still nice to see happy times amongst cast and crew between takes) but, most importantly contains the Pilot episode! Although a Johnny-come-lately to the series (I didn't start watching the series until it's premier syndication on A&E back in '97), I fell head over heals for this series and along with The Wonder Years has got to be the best television series ever written. I have watched this series in it's entirety 7 times and it just got better and better each time. Upon watching this series it becomes axiomatic that each actor was as carefully chosen for their corresponding roles as was the plot of each episode as well as the general plot and direction the series was predetermined to take. Masterfully written with character developement at it's best with not a shred of contradiction by the end of the series. It's just too bad Rob Morrow felt he had to leave the series in search of other prospects by the end of the fifth season or this series might very well have run for another five years. Rob and Janine's on set chemistry is something Moonlighting could only have hoped to achieve. It will be a long time before another Television series comes along as good as this one. I have waited seven years for this to come out on DVD and owning the first season is a dream come true (no more waiting until 1:00 a.m. to see commercial-drenched episodes on the Hallmark Channel) and I greatly anticipate owning the reamining five seasons as they become available. Even after all these years this series still stands the test of time and for anyone who has maybe only watched bits and pieces of Northern Exposure in the past you owe it to yourself to broaden your horizons and make this magnificent series a part of your DVD library and a part of your life.