This was the movie that totally freaked me out since my father took me to see "Jaws" when I was 4-years old.  I was horrified yet I couldn't help but continue to want to see more.  Kind of like driving past an accident on the highway.
The scene where Clarice descends down into the dark pit of the hospital for the criminally insane, while rules such as,"DO NOT APPROACH THE GLASS!" and, "DO NOT TOUCH THE GLASS!" are being barked out, is the best set up I've seen as an introduction to the "villian."  I had no idea what to expect next.
What I received was the coolest, smartest, most interesting psycho that Jonathan Demme and Anthony Hopkins created for film.  You couldn't help but like Lector and his ability as a psychiatrist to help Agent Starling confront her limitations and failures so as to live up to her expectations.  Yet, the look of calm on his face while he's bludgeoning the face of the guard with the nightstick is so frightening.
The film always had me on the edge of my seat trying to solve the case along with Starling.  The story never dawdled.  I wish this was true with "Hannibal", which took too long to reintroduce the characters with each other.  But, that is a seperate review.
A brilliant film, capturing the five major Academy Awards for it's year(1991).  This film is a modern classic.
The Criterion Collection Edition of this film is a must have.  It is well worth the... that it is currently valued.  Special Features include:  Commentary by Demme, Foster and Hopkins, screenwriter Ted Tally and FBI agent John Douglas; Seven deleted scenes(with commentary); Storyboards and a comparison to actual scenes in the film; FBI crime classification manual; Voices of Death:  word-for-word statements of convicted serial killers.  I'm a huge fan of Special Features.  Widescreen and the ability to watch a movie in French don't cut it.  My thinking is:  If you have the room, slap something on there.  Otherwise, what a waste.
The DVD comes with different cover art on its jewel box case than what is shown on this site.  The front is mostly Jodie Foster's face on the left with two small boxes on the right that show Lector's eyes(in red light) and Buffalo Bill's hand touching Agent Starling's hair(in green light).  The background is black with a dark blue Death's Head moth.  This is the what to look for when buying a copy in order to get all the extras.