Since I was young, I had always been intrigued by war.  I was never as interested in the violence as I was by the people who fought the wars.  Every veteran I have ever spoken with had a story they were willing to share and something in the war that made them smile.  Tour of Duty was the first movie or TV show I saw that showed what I was interested in, stories about people who fought the war without graphic violence getting in the way.

I used to watch Tour of Duty religiously when it was aired on TV and I still had VHS recordings of the show that were old, dark, and worn out.  I was ecstatic to find Tour of Duty again on DVD.  Tour of Duty follows the men of Bravo Company during the Vietnam War.  Going beyond the violence, it discusses what affected the soldiers and how the men coped with the war.  Topics that the show addressed were topics that people never seemed to speak about.  For example, one episode shows the journey of a war protester forced to actively fight in the war.  Another, shows a solider who accidentally shoots a child.  There is also a great episode that talks about wounded/disabled soldiers who were shipped back to a hospital in Hawaii and the affect the war and their injuries had on the life of a disabled soldier after the war.

By today's standards, the acting in Tour of Duty is only average.  However, the show is outstanding considering only a few actors made a name for themselves prior to the series and only a few are still "visible" in Hollywood since the series.  Looking through the credits, it is kind of neat to see some of the guest stars that appeared on the show such as David Allen Grier, Tia Carrere, Ving Rhames, Tim Thomerson, and Everett McGill, some of whom were on the show before they were big, some on during their fall from stardom.

The DVDs are lacking the original music score, which has been replaced by a somewhat cheesy series of instrumentals.  I think this does take away from the show a little, but the drama and messages in the shows are still there.

If you are like me and was a big fan of the show, this is a definite must have.  Otherwise, if you are looking for an excellent portrayal of the people and issues soldiers face in war, the Tour of Duty series would be an excellent addition to your video library.