The last thing to be expected in the pristine Maine wilderness and tranquil setting is a 30-foot eating machine, a reptilian of the species Crocodylus. Only this time, it's a real-life phenomenon. 
Allocated her first real field assignment, a palaeontologist from New York City, Kelly Scott (Bridget Fonda) finds herself amidst a party of curious onlookers in Maine to investigate the origins of a tooth extracted from a recent victim involved in a vicious attack along a lake. She is introduced to a local Fish and Game warden Jack Wells (Bill Pullman), an irritable sheriff Hank Keough (Brendan Gleeson), and Hector Cyr (Oliver Platt), an "eccentric millionaire mythology professor", a crocodile fanatic who deifies crocodiles and contemplates he is "untouchable" and "godly".
Ticks, mosquitos and petty irritants of nature are essentially Kelly's assumed only fears. On the contrary, what the lake splashes up is a reflection of how trivial Kelly's anxieties really are. Overcoming their disparity, the warden, sheriff, palaeontologist, professor and deputies must explore all options and settle on a scheme that entails the enticement of the croc out of its territory, accompanied by unforeseen disasters.
'Lake Placid' is a highly acclaimed film directed by Steve Miner and produced by David E. Kelley and Michael Pressman. A 1999 20th Century Fox release, it is "this year's 'Anaconda', only you spend as much time laughing as you do screaming" (David Poland, TNT Roughcut.com).
Unconventionally effective and a jawful of laughs, "where 'Godzilla' makes the head hurt, 'Placid' splashes up a bit fun" (Ross Anthony, Hollywood Report Card). A tossup between a frivolous comedy and an edgy horror film with an unpredictable end, 'Lake Placid' is befitting for any audience who holds a zest for the darker side of Nature.
Also featuring Meredith Salenger as Deputy Gare and Betty White as the widowed Mrs. Bickerman, it throws stones of wit, humour and horror with an inexorably smart and edgy dialogue, stretching the boundaries of extraordinary special effects to send out ripples of shock, telling a tale of the concealed secrets lurking beneath the Maine lake's serene surface. Highly recommended.