I can't say that I'm surprised by all of the negative reviews for Slipstream, as it is most certainly an acquired taste and not intended for pedestrian viewers. But if you're into extremely surreal fare the likes of Jordorowsky, Lynch (at his most Lynchian), Maddin, etc., then I wholeheartedly encourage you to give Sir Anthony's exquisite little mindfvck an enthusiastic ride - I doubt you'll be disappointed. Fans of David Lynch and Oliver Stone (both of whom Hopkins has worked with on The Elephant Man and Nixon, respectively) should feel particularly at home with Slipstream given how much obvious influence their most surreal works exert over the look and feel of this production.

The FACT of the matter is that this is not a bad film, let alone a candidate for worst film of the year as some hyper-critical knobs have asserted. Some people however, have the insufferable tendency of ripping apart anything they don't "get". A highly experimental work such as Slipstream will always be lambasted by certain viewers of a particular [closed] mindset who exhibit more conventional or orthodox (i.e. conservative) cinematic tastes.

It's hard to wrap one's head around the fact that for his writing and directorial debut, Sir Anthony Hopkins has concocted a (literally) dizzying head-trip of a movie capable of casting a subliminal spell upon an open-minded viewer. The fact that an eminently respected artist in his mid-sixties has seen fit to offer up such an unapologetically uncommercial work is both refreshing and inspiring - and, once again, let the naysayers be damned for their refusal to acquiesce to Hopkins fever-dream vision.

Slipstream is downright hallucinatory, which can either be a very good or very bad thing depending upon one's constitution for such fare.* And even viewed entirely sober this film has the ability to induce a consciousness-altering effect upon the viewer. One would imagine that viewed under the influence of psychedelics that this cinematic "trip" would be a revelatory experience for the viewer. I look forward to testing this hypothesis at some point in the future for my second viewing.

*ANALOGOUS TANGENT FROM A METAPHORICAL PERSPECTIVE: Look, I personally will not set foot upon a rollercoaster - or any kind of  "breakneck" thrill-rides of the sort - as they are not my idea of fun; I simply do not have the constitution for them. But I would be remiss to confuse my own subjective displeasure of such rides with some ego-centric, self-deluded notion that such rides, therefore, [must] objectively "suck." Such a perspective would be immature (not to mention FALSE) in that it fails to take into consideration the obvious appreciation and enjoyment that such rides are capable of bringing to many others whose constitution is perfectly suited for physically-demanding recreational activities. Likewise, there are many people whose constitutions are simply not designed to enjoy extremely surreal spectacle the likes of a movie like Slipstream. And that's perfectly understandable. I would no more wish to impose a surrealistic cinematic "thrill-ride" upon a mindset not geared for it than I would want someone to impose a literal, mechanical thrill-ride upon me. But what I do wish, however, is that people make an effort to e-x-p-a-n-d their consciousness enough to realize a subtle yet powerful truth:

Just because something sucks FOR YOU personally (i.e. SUBJECTIVELY) doesn't necessarily mean that it therefore SUCKS in general for everyone (i.e. OBJECTIVELY).

Peace,

Andy