You have never seen a movie like The Fast Runner. You've likely avoided movies like The Fast Runner, but it would be an injustice to avoid this masterpiece of cinema art. There's no other way to refer to this unique film. Visually it showers the viewer with images never before seen in a movie, never even imagined. Surreal sunsets, rippling vistas of snow that look like the ocean, amazing faces, bizarre rituals, ancient tools, instructions on building an ice house, and more shades of white than you ever knew existed. If this were a documentary on a three-thousand-year old culture, it could not have been more well-researched and faithful to the smallest details.
Be prepared for what is initially a confusing and slow experience in storytelling. The faces look alike, and the family relationships are not immediately easy to grasp, made even more confusing by the leaps in time at the beginning. But take your time and let the story come to you. It's worth it. It all makes sense eventually. This is an ancient story of evil corrupting man and the eradication of evil through love and forgiveness; a love story of jealousy, revenge, survival, tragedy and finally, justice and redemption. The characters become like personal friends before the film is over, as we are completey caught up in the complex nature of the relationships. 
There is a reason stories like these survive for thousands of years, because there is so much universal truth inherent in them that they always have something to teach us, despite what at first seems so alien. We recognize ourselves in these people. The utterly simple, straightforward and honest style of storytelling here, in the final analysis, overleaps the boundaries of language and race.
And for a really cool finale, during the closing credits we see behind-the-scenes footage of the actors and crew in their leather jackets and walkmans joking around with each other, working the equipment, and shivering in the snow, just like we would be doing, reminding us how little distance there really is from there to here.