After finishing watching Xena for the first time in years, I found myself enjoying it a bit more than when it first came out.

The best things about Xena: 1) is her character.  2) Yes, I'll admit it, being a guy, two beautiful women stars help too :).

Back to her character: She has a well-thought out, well-developed fullness.  She is rich, vibrant and dark.  She is far better than her counterpart, Hercules. She is a woman version of Batman, well, zans the cape and cowel.  She has personality, strength of character, she is quick thinking, above all, she is HUMAN.  She has problems, and she has human puzzles, obstacles to deal with.  When she can't use brute strength (though she uses it 80% of the time), she uses her WITS and her ability to be flexible to overcome her challenges.  (unlike Hercules, the brute strength man)

She has lots of redeeming features which I can't write down all in one review to make her a person well worthy to cheer for.

Xena's action is well done, and far more realistic than Hercules.  The serious overtone of the battles and Xena's atmosphere in general sinks in quite well.  The best action takes place when they set up fortifications and defense of towns and people, that shows her skills and strategies.  Heck, even Gabrielle shows her stuff.  It's got different quirks, and even puts the Heroes in different situations: like, when Gabrielle freezes in combat...I think that's realistic and WOW....shows the humanness of it all.  Or how even Xena or Gabrielle doesn't always have a solution to solve the problem in combat, or out of it.  Xena often thinks of ways on the fly.

Most of the plots and storylines were fine, and always entertaining.  I even liked the one where Gabrielle attends Bard school.  Though, I find HER very annoying, the episode was fun.

my favorite side characters had been and still are: Autolycus, the "King of Thieves", Salmoneus the merchant and Joxer "the Mighty"  The chemistry between Autolycus works far better with Xena than Hercules.
they make the show's stars well worth watching...and even makes me want to buy the rest of the series so I can watch for those characters specifically.

Now, to the minor problems:
I didn't know the Gods were so weak and helpless.  Hera seemed much more deadly to me. She usually has better plots, guards to deal with such pesky heroes...:).

As for other Gods...
I don't recall the episode title, but when Death comes to the King's castle to "claim" him, he manages to capture her in a weak mechanical trap?

Hades, who is also a God, who can bring people to life and such, appeals Xena for help?  What???!  And, when Death is freed, she doesn't kill the old King who she came for in the first place? Did I miss something here?

Or, when Hades has his Helmet of Invisibility stolen...what, he can't stop a mortal?  Hmm. I guess I should brush up on my Greek mythology, but that just doesn't seem too all awe-inspiring to me.  I understand the Greek Gods were supposedly like humans in most aspects, but they were also very all powerful.  The only aspects in which they were humans, were their emotions, and pettiness.

Also, the Titans in the episode: The Titans.  I thought they had more power than just "being big".  Oh well, maybe that's just me.

But, on a lesser note, I couldn't STAND Gabrielle or Callisto.  Callisto is an overdone-over-cliched "I hate the Heroine" character, which needed to be fleshed out over seventeen episodes, WHY?  As if Xena doesn't have enough guilt to dwell over?

That said,
Xena is a far superior show than Hercules.