Continued ...
Mary and George have enough, but also have simplicity, and are not in a materialistic, consumer culture. Accepting his position in the community, he becomes involved with helping some immigrant and low-income families who are being exploited by the slumlord, Mr.Potter. George starts a reasonably priced housing development- again, more responsibility.

But the good life that they've made for themselves, and eventually, their children, is threatened by a mischance, a piece of bad luck, caused by his uncle and bookkeeper. Uncle Billy (Thomas Mitchell) accidentally loses $8,000 of Bailey's Bank money. An honest, loyal old man, Billy breaks down under the strain and once again George assumes the moral responsibility. But finally, this is too much for him to bear. The thought of losing all he holds dear- honor, bank business, family, house- pushes him over the edge to despair.

On a dark, snowy, night, Christmas Eve, George prepares to jump into a river- his life insurance is enough to cover the missing deposit.But now the magical in this morality tale takes over. Naturalistic so far, the story suddenly echoes Dickens' "A Christmas Carol" and the Spirit of Christmas Future appears in Bedford Falls.

A stranger, really an apprentice angel who like pilots must earn his wings, makes George rescue HIM from the frigid waters, and as they dry out afterward the two have a chance to talk. Clarence (Henry Travers) gets George to open up about his troubles, something he hasn't been able to do. Angel Clarence 2nd Class grants George's despairing wish that he had never been born and shows him what people's lives and the town would be like without him. As George and Clarence race from each hypothetical situation, George's panic grows; he never realized how much good he had done in his life - how his existence had made a difference. This sequence builds from his little brother dying in the ice, his mother an embittered, poor widow, his eccentric uncle locked up in the insane asylum, his old employer sent to prison for manslaughter, the town flirt, Violet, turned prostitute and pickpocket. This all culminates in a harrowing scene, in which Stewart is simply extraordinary,
when he attempts to speak to his wife Mary, she screams in fear at his grabbing her and wanting her to recognize him. The look on his face when he realizes that his innermost affective life, his very being as a man, and of course the existence of his children, shows what he's lost!

Maddened by this unbearable realization, George struggles back to the river bridge to beg the angel to reverse his wish of annihilation. Suddenly, the bad dream is over. George's wish is granted again. He rushes home, to what he cherishes - his wife, his children, his home - his life. Prison and "disgrace with fortune and mens' eyes" now hold no threat for him. He will stay and face the music.

His quiet Mary has meanwhile asked the townspeople for help. For one who has always helped others, it is George's turn to receive. As small donations come in, enough to cover the deficit, George knows what he has had all along - a wonderful life.

All the actors do a fine job; this was Stewart's favorite of his films. The sets were the most elaborate for for their time - I write this not far from them.

Around Christmastime, I chanced to walk around my town, quiet when it was late. Summing up the year to myself and having this movie in my mind,I wondered - had I made a difference or a mark in even such a small place? I passed the charity bookshop I created single-handed, because no one else wanted to, and named after a great American essayist. Ten years later it is still in business with the same title and organization I gave it. The profits have sent 20,000 free books a year into U.S. prisons. I looked up to the foothills. A piece of land, the last wild tract in the valley and a Native American site, was threatened with development by a greedy new institution. I worked a whole summer, helping to organize and getting signatures to save it. That land is still untouched.

Down the boulevard is the 'peace corner'- people have stood and protested on that site against the Korean War, Vietnam War, first Gulf War, invasion of Afghanistan, the present Iraqi War - and I have stood and marched once a week for six years, only one among many, but angry at the necessity.Then I saw several places I used to live and remembered I did have friends there. Nearby is the college radio station where I have my weekly classical broadcast. The town library - how many times did I take my young students there! Respected as a teacher, and kept safe, I've been known and I have helped. It seemed to me as I walked that although I never meant to stay in this town so long, still I can say - it's been a good life.

And now, difficult times are ahead for our country, and the world. For many, dark times have already arrived. Might we be better to live closer to what we once had, of stronger ties - friend to friend, neighbor to neighbor? Created it in any locale, we all should live as if we were in a small town.

[A post-dedication to the memory of my landlord and friend who helped build the town I live in. A real life George Bailey -- we shall not see his like again. Look, O Passerby, at this record of a great man's life. http://www.claremont-courier.com/pages/obit011709.1.html  --  Obituary of Bob Stafford]