Released in 1995, Richard Linklater's "Before Sunrise" became a Generation X romantic masterpiece. It was the story of the one night spent together by chatty, heartbroken American drifter Jesse (Ethan Hawke) and vulnerable but opinionated French girl Celine (Julie Delpy). Walking around Vienna, they talked, making out with their minds, before falling in love.

At the end of the movie, they promise to meet up in Vienna six months later. Instead, the sequel "Before Sunset" opens nine years later in Paris. Due to the death of her grandmother, Celine never made it back to Vienna. The next time she meet's Jesse is in a bookstore, where he is winding up the end of a book tour. He has written a novel based on their time in Vienna, and although at first speechless, soon both have a lot to talk about.

The movie unfolds in real time over 80 minutes. As they leave the bookstore on the left bank of the Seine, the sinking of the sun is an element of time. Letting you know how much time they have left.

Instead of filming the landmarks of Paris of Vienna, director Linklater show us wide shots, in front of or behind the couple. The streetscapes are pretty, and they make the time go faster. Building the suspense of the story.

Celine and Jesse are hungry for news of each other. He feels trapped in his loveless marriage because of having a child. She is tired of been the kind of women who men thank for teaching them how to love other women. Delpy is hypersensitive about the deadline, punctuating her thoughts with "You'll miss your plane."

Neither Delpy nor Hawke has done anything as effective since "Before Sunrise." Hawke has been the occasional success like "Training Day." Delpy's career has crashed and burned. Here, both off camera contributing to writing the script, as well as on screen, they work so well together you wonder why the film took so long to get made.

The subject they talk about most is how in their mid-30s, they realise how precious time is. That regret is wasteful, and passion is always compromised by real life. In an 80-minute long epiphany they remind each other what by not again meeting again in Vienna, they learnt to live without.

But they are talking again. With seductive ease, they navigate the new terrain of each other's heart. Feeling they're rhythmic beat, you hope for them time will stand still.