I really wanted to like this movie but it is hard to ignore all the flaws. There were far too many holes in the plot. There were mention of ghosts and Egyptian Gods when clearly the movie was gonna lead to neither. It was like the director or writer or whoever was trying to keep us guessing about the origin of the boy's behavior and they just didn't pull it off. The parents just seemed to lack good ole common sense. At the end there were so many unanswered questions. The story comes off as incomplete. I'm not gonna go into too much detail. I was just disappointed.

 I believe the movie could've been way better had the story been filled out more. A lot just didn't make sense, for example when the dad tells the uncle he suspects something is wrong with Joshua. The uncle laughs and tells the dad he's the one who needs help when just days before he had admitted very casually that his family has a history of mental illness. Or how the dad could've proven his point with a very strong piece of evidence he found but he never uses it. I think Vera Famiga is a great actress but her character was left to just go crazy. That's it.

 There is a lot of yelling and raging in the movie and a huge over reaction to a child attending a Christian meeting when the parents had stated earlier his preference of religion was his choice. Especially since one parent is supposedly Christian. It just doesn't make sense. Another example, one day the dad is looking at a female co-worker and pornography because he supposedly isn't getting enough affection at home then when he gets his affection he is later seen flirting it up with this same girl while leaving his clearly unstable wife at home with his 2 kids. Or when the social worker leaves Joshua in the care of his father though she suspects abuse. It's character actions like this that just lead to a lot of confusion.

One minute you think you know where the movie's going then it flip flops. I believe had the movie been thought through more and had left some things out and had explained all character actions it would've been far better. I recently came across a film similar to this called We Need To Talk About Kevin. I haven't watched it yet but it looks very good.