Having read nearly every review of every tape or film version of A Christmas Carol, I feel that it is about time someone stands up for the REAL Scrooge.  The 1935 Seymour Hicks performance of Ebenezer is the very best one you will ever see.  All the critical comment and conventional wisdom misses the seminal point that Sir Charles intended by his story; that the misery of Scrooge is at the very heart of inequality in society.  And, by that standard, Seymour Hicks gave his character the most organic quality I have ever seen, to include a few stage performances.
However, while I firmly believe the Hicks version to be the best overall Scrooge, my sentimental favorite will forever be that with Reginald Owen playing the part of ole Ebenezer.  Owens's job is the first one I saw as a child, and was the preferred version during all those years of my early youth, aired each year by a local Television station.  From the infatuation with Alistair Sim's production far too many of us, including all the reviewers, forget that the Reginald Owen A Christmas Carol was the standard for us Boomers.  Additionally, Owens's Scrooge had the happiest tone of them all - visually and emotionally.  His version was simply breathtaking.
Being quite bored with hearing how Alistair Sim does the best job of bringing to life the miserable old coot, I say, "BAH, HUMBUG!"  Sim was a skillful journeyman actor, and created a memorable version of Scrooge, but his portrayal is a far less substantial creation than that of the crusty, haggard, scoundrel of Hicks' handiwork.  Seymour Hicks nails it, as those of us in Theatre would say.  Hicks makes you believe he is Ebenezer Scrooge, which no other performance does so completely.  Reginald Owen and Patrick Stewart both deliver close second place performances, but that said Hicks remains head and shoulders above either of these more modern classic versions.
So, if you are truly fond of A Christmas Carol, the restored 1935 Seymour Hicks version should be the one you watch every year, followed by Reginald Owens's.  And, of course, no one should ever miss Bill Murray's Scrooged; but, that's another story.