Okay everyone, Patriarch here. Last time I tried the Live-the-Review style of reviewing it met with disastrous results. That time I reviewed Last House on The Left. This time I've picked a much different film. I found this movie at Barnes and Noble in the Foreign/Art film section I wanted something completely different then the horror of LHotL. Okay and for you that don't know, in this review style I speak from the POV of the main character. Okay time to go.

Here goes-lights, action, camera!

Okay the movies starting now. There's tons of words in a foreign language that I don't understand. This is the credits I guess. There is relaxing music playing. Okay now what, some dirty woman blowing on fire.

Now the Patriarch always assumes that the first person he sees in a movie is the main character, so like last time I am a girl for the sake of the review. I'm going to hold off just a little longer though to make sure.

Okay she is just walking around and NOTHING IS HAPPENING. Okay now some people are praying to Jesus. A man and a woman. The man is very manly so I take it that he is the main character.

Never mind that now a woman is talking to chicks. Ok I admit it, I have no idea who I am supposed to be. She talks to that first girl I saw and she is giving her the business.

Now it's all women walking around and talking to each other. You know, nobody so far has struck me with the kind of charisma it takes to be a main character. The man is back now but he's just eating.

Okay I am going to look this up on the Internet and find out who the main character is because this review so far has made about as much sense as the movie has.

Okay, I'm back now. It turns out I am asleep in bed right now. No not the real me, the movie me. My name is Karin and, once again, for the sake of this review I am a gal.

SO for the sake of the review I have to skip past this beginning part and get to the part where I enter the movie because if I am not in that part of the movie how do I know it is happening?

Ok so now I, Karin, a pretty blonde girl am laying in bed. I'm arguing with my mother because she wants me to go to church, but I've got to catch up on my Zs.

Ok, the idea that I can wear my favorite outfit to church has convinced me to go. Now my mom is combing my hair, and she like, could care less that she is pulling my hair out because there are knots and she's just tugging away. I seem very spoiled.

Okay long story short I am leaving on horseback with that dirty girl from the beginning. I'm singing now how sweet. This seems like a pleasant movie so far because nothing really happens. It's like someone just filmed a random day in my life.

The dirty girl and I are talking now.

I'm sorry. I'm going to leave out a lot of what I just did, because mostly it was talking. The dirty girl is now yelling at me. I think the dirty girl wants to turn back. I possess no fear however and am like, let's get to church already. I leave the dirty girl behind because, she has been a thorn in my side since we left.

I'm gonna be late for matins dammit!

Alright, the dirty girl is talking to some man now, but I don't know that, I'm far away on my horse. I'm riding along and I meet some friendly herdsmen. You know what, it's pretty bad when your day has been so dull that herdsmen are actually worth mentioning.

I am so lonely and bored by this point that I take the herdsmen to a clearing and share my lunch with them.

I cannot frickin believe this. I am getting raped by the herdsmen. This came out of nowhere. At least they are quick. Well, I'm raped now and I am like in total shock. I am just walking around sobbing and I have no idea what I am doing. The only people I can go to get help from are the herdsmen, but something tells me they won't be any help.

Okay they just hit me over the head with a club. Beautiful, thanks a lot guys. Why not just kick me when I'm down. Alright so they've hit me over the head pretty hard and I am dead. That's it. The perfect way to end the most boring day of my life. I'm raped and killed.

Okay I'm out of character now. This is ridiculous, I just finished reviewing LHotL where, as you know, I was raped and killed. Now, once again, I'm raped and killed. And just like last time, the movie's only halfway over! What is with movies nowadays? I wish I knew what happened in the second half of the movie, but I have to turn it off because when you die the movie's over, you don't know how everything is resolved.

Patriarch signing off.

PS I don't think I am going to do this kind of review again. Things just aren't working out.

PPS-why 5 stars? Because I lived it and anything I live is certainly worthy of 5 stars. Yeah, I am that important.