This review was from Jason Nicholl (RIP) from [...]

In the spirit of full disclosure, I was invited for a visit to the set of "House of the Wolf Man." Yet, I did buy my own ticket for the premiere of the movie last night. So take my review for what it is worth.

I absolutely loved Eben McGarr's new film, "House of the Wolf Man." It is a love letter to the classic horror movies of yester year, and pays homage in the way many wish filmmakers would, but seldom do.

The movie is presented in black and white, full frame, and mono. It was shot in the style of the classic monster movies of the 1930's and 1940's; intended to fit in as the "missing" chapter of the "House of" franchise. Universal originally made "House of Frankenstein" (1944) and "House of Dracula" (1945). Reportedly there were plans to complete the trilogy with "House of the Wolf Man," but the studio never got around to making that one. Writer / Director Eben McGarr has created the missing piece to that trilogy. He employed only the lighting, sound, and camera techniques used in those original films. The care he showed truly pays off.

The film opens on a dark and stormy night at the castle of Dr. Bela Reinhardt (Ron Chaney) where five strangers arrive. Those five people include Reed Chapel (Dustin Fitzsimons) and his sister Mary (Sara Raferty), brainy nerd Conrad Sullivan (Jeremie Loncka), the mysterious Elmira Cray (Cheryl Rodes), and renowned hunter Archibald Whitlock (Jim Thalman). They have been summoned by Reinhardt to participate in a game of elimination, in which the last one standing will inherit his estate. Along the way, the five participants come face to face with a creepy servant named Barlow (John McGarr) as well as the triumvirate of monsters - the Wolf Man, Frankenstein's monster, and Count Dracula.

All of the performances are very good, blending perfect comic timing with the right amount of campiness that was found in those original monster movies. Ron Chaney, grandson of the legendary Lon Chaney, Jr. (the original "Wolf Man") headlines the cast and is dead-on creepy in the role of the mad scientist. Also earning top marks is Cheryl Rodes, whose screen presence is captivating.

The film is a wonderful technical achievement. Cinematographer Royce Allen Dudley does a tremendous job of capturing the ambiance of the story. The images are eerily beautiful and you will be hard pressed to tell the difference between this movie shot in 2009 and the other "House of" movies shot in the 1940's. The movie is edited crisply as it speeds along at just the right pace. The story is well written by McGarr, with the right combination of campiness and chills. The choreography of the fights between the monsters is extremely well done. Overall, Eben McGarr should be praised for delivering a true gem of a movie that any fan of the classic monster movies will love.

If one of the major studios were smart they would pick this up and give it a proper theatrical release. Destined to be a cult classic, I believe it has crossover potential with older fans who love classic films, as well as with young families. Imagine the marketing campaign - "When was the last time you could take your kids to a horror film?" That alone should be worth millions. So here's hoping that "House of the Wolf Man" hits a theater near you soon. You won't be disappointed.