Cinema audiences do not look to Hollywood for an accurate portrayal of anything, much less History. We do not want them to. We want entertainment: the full splendour of magic as woven by intriguing plots, sumptuously designed sets, and an over-indulgence of inspired acting. Nothing less.  
The rebirth of Human Thought of the past millenium was ushered into the world fraught with pain and many false starts. History witnessed the end of the Middle Ages three quarters into those thousand years, and although it claims Florence as its embroiled center of emergence, England was certainly one of Europe's greatest proponents of the Renaissance.
One finds an excellent treatment of the ascendance to the British throne of this film's title subject. Shekhar Kapur is an expert magician, carefully managing into a fluid package the steamiest bits of the Queen's early reign, deftly helming the ship round an elaborate and exquisite set, and orchestrating the magnificent cast to a fine-tuned performance. One is offered a musing and attractive interpretation of the famous story, and the result is wholly enthralling.  
Chief among its many wonders is its star performer, Cate Blanchett. If not a direct descendant of the Muses, she then comes scandalously close to the claim by steeling the entire show; and it is nothing short of what she, whether by accident or design, is wont to do. She is a fascinating actor. Her credits prove it.  Go to PARADISE ROAD, OSCAR AND LUCINDA, or her contribution to THE TALENTED MR RIPLEY, and it is obvious why she was awarded this role. That she was not awarded the Academy honour is yet another scandal, but we are patient. She shall be granted a place in that stellar coterie, and that with lavish and deserved praise. 
Great advances in the Age of Discovery came to the world as brought forth by the English and their Queen.  She was a staunch patron of the Arts (theatre, the fine arts, artisanry), the maritime sciences, and certainly Literature.  By her leave and her purse, the world was bequeathed the jewels of the one of the greatest languages of the West, giving England a proper place in the enlightening advance of the Renaissance.
Look to ELIZABETH, not for the important development of that story, but for a glimpse into how it started.  This telling is as diverting and encompassing a version as the whole tale.