Sometimes I feel weird explaining horror films I want to see. For instance, I had a horrible time explaining why I wanted to see Hostel. That and Saw has to be some of the hardest to explain to non-horror-film-ites. Friday, I was asked what my plans were for the weekend.  I said, I was planning to see Final Destination 3. When I said that, it was "why would you want to see that?"

And the response on the tip of my tongue was going to be "to see the teens offed in darkly humorous ways" but I stopped myself because I knew how that would sound. I mean, that is why I'm going to see it. Final Destination spooked me and made me jump and cringe due to the scary situations (getting strangled in your tub by wire to the point where your eyes turn red...that made me cringe in empathy) and Final Destination 2 made me laugh at the horrendously over-the-top ways Death plotted each person's demise. I laughed and said "Wow!" a couple times at the truly creative ways in which the real world could kill someone. Part of the fun in that movie was figuring out not "if" a person would be offed but how. It kept you guessing and played with your expectations.

Director James Wong returns to helm the third film and makes a film that has some of the best and worst aspects of the first two.  He is a pretty decent technical director.  The camera angles are great as is the general cinematography.  To begin with, I thought the roller-coaster was a bit tame, compared to the horrific car accident and plane explosion of the first two films.  However, some of the deaths that follow it exemplify some of the best of cause and effect science laws where the littlest thing ends up causing so much destruction.

The actors and characters are all pretty much stereotypes and cliches which actually makes the movie more enjoyable.  You know these people aren't real, you know that, in effect, you are watching cliches getting splattered and shot, instead of real people.

The strength of the second film was how different each death was.  The third film has too many "splat" deaths.  They are and aren't as creative as the first two, if that makes sense, meaning if taken by themselves are creative, but looked at as a whole, they are too similar to each other.

It also relies on too many cliches of the first two films.  The rustling wind, the protagonist slowly twirling around as if experiencing something the rest of us can't see.  The candles flickering when there's no breeze to flick them.  It got in the way of what we want to see.

In the end, its a good entry in the series.  Sometimes it excels over the past two, but at times it drags under the contraints of the film.  I want to see a fourth film in which the people try to outsmart death, not wait around to see what It is going to do and then try to react.  Or, how about one of the characters, like the goth figure in this film, decide to take matters into his or her own hands and try and kill the last person who's supposed to die (as suggested in this film but never used)?  They need something new to inject into the series to keep it going past its one shot premise.

A good film, sometimes better sometimes worse than its prequels, but overall a fun way to spend an evening...if watching heads splat and teens fake bake themselves to death is your cup of tea.