How many movies do you see that completely out dare the incredulous stereotypes that plague today's movies? How many movies to you see that are so fresh and so original that, when the credits roll, you sit and think about what you just watched? That, my friends is the effect that "(500) Days of Summer" has on you. If you pay attention to the film, it makes you think.

"(500) Days of Summer" is a story of boy meets girl. Or at least, that's what the wry, deep-voiced narrator tells us as the film opens. Throughout the film, we follow the story of Tom Hansen and Summer Finn and their offbeat, complex relationship over 500 days (in no particular order). As the story progresses, we jump from present day to flashback countless times as we try to piece the intricate narrative together.Director Marc Webb makes a splash with this debut film. His indication on this film is strong, and the film is visually irresistible, with smooth, slick cinematography and a gorgeous color scheme that was designed to match the color of Zooey Deschanel's eyes, which, if you haven't noticed already, are the most beautiful pair of eyes in Hollywood. This is a film that, for better or worse, leaves a mark with its outstanding visual appeal.

The acting in this venture was superb. Stars Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Zooey Deschanel more than hold their own as a quirky romantic "couple." Gordon-Levitt is very endearing and sympathetic right from his plate-smashing entrance. Part of the effect i think he has on the film is his boyish charm. He has everything he needs to be an effective protagonist: a warm smile, a good face, good sense of style and a good sense of comedic and dramatic timing. He makes us laugh, he mmakes us cry, and it could be debated that his side-splitting one-liners make this movie what it is.

The performance Deschanel turns in deserves its own paragraph, really. Summer is a complex character. She comes off as really shallow at times, but at other times seems uniquely deep-seated. Zooey Deschanel showcases enormous and effective talent with this performance, playing Summer with an effective technique; Summer is mysterious, confused, and, as we dive deeper into her, we discover that she is a bit of a tortured soul. Coming from a divorced family, she doesn't believe in love. She hasn't seen it work in her life. She believes that if you can't see it, it doesn't exist. This affects her and Tom's relationship in a poignant way.Now, the complexity of Summer's character doesn't justify her actions throughout the film. She claims that she's not looking for anything serious, but proceeds to have sex with Tom in a shower. Now, many of you say, and I concur, that Tom shouldn't take Summer's selfish, conceited bait. It's easy to see either character in different lights, depending on the depth of examination. The character development in this film is profound and moving in this way.

As far as soundtracks go, this film's soundtrack is among the best of the best. Artists such as Regina Spekter and Simon and Garfunkel contribute fine, fine pieces to the film, but it's artists such as The Temper Trap and Wolfmother that contribute the bulk of the emotional music. "Sweet Dispotition" by the Temper Trap plays a key role in the mood and tone of many scenes in the film. And Wolfmother's "Vagabond" provides a certain edge to a montage near the end that defines some of our final impression on the film. But of course we can't forget Regina Spekter's "Us," which sets the mood for the film at the beginning.The writing in this film is witty and emotional. The dialogue is fairly natural and often hilarious. And the story is upbeat, off-beat, and strikingly original. We also see that this film makes several serious points about love, loss, relationships, and how they affect us on a definitive level. It's a smart, clever, and endearing comedy that stays with you long after the credits roll. This sets the bar and is easily a cut above the average romantic comedy; A refreshing five out of five!