In the course of my reading I have come across a great many references to Florenz Ziegfeld and his legendary "Ziegfeld Follies".  But I knew precious little about them.  It seems that for three decades between 1907 and 1936 Flo Ziegfeld's lavish productions were all the rage on Broadway.  And why wouldn't they be?  The list of stars who performed in these shows reads like a "who's who" of show business during this period.  Recently, I came across a VHS copy of the epic three hour 1936 film "The Great Ziegfeld" at my local library.  It turns out that "The Great Ziegfeld" is not only a biography of this show business icon but the film also offers you an incredible opportunity to relax in your living room and  sample the best of the what the Follies had to offer all those years ago.  What you will discover is that these extravaganzas were postively "stunning".  There has never been anything else quite like the "Follies" before or since.

For me, what was really neat about watching "The Great Ziegfeld" was the opporunity to partake of actual performances by such legendary figures as Al Jolson, Will Rogers, Fanny Brice and the song and dance man Ray Bolger (later the 'Tin Man' in the "Wizard of Oz").  It easy to see why these folks were such crowd pleasers in their day.  But it was not just the so-called "stars" that made "Ziegfeld Follies" so special.  It was was the lavish sets and the cadre of beautiful girls who would appear in each show.  Literally hundreds of beautiful girls!  These shows truly were spectacular in every way!  And although this film was made more than 70 years ago I was glued to my TV the entire time.

As I mentioned earlier,  the film also doubles as a biography of Flo Ziegfeld....well, sort of.  The producers take liberal amounts of literary license with his life story.  We do learn that Flo will spare no expense to make sure that his shows are the most ostentatious productions on Broadway.  This penchant for lavish spending will land Flo in the poor house on more than one occasion.  "The Great Ziegfeld" also focuses on  Flo's personal life including his long-time common-law marriage to the Polish born performer  Anna Held (played by Luise Rainer) and his subsequent marriage to actress Billie Burke (played by Myrna Loy).  Indeed, I would be remiss if I failed to mention the outstanding music in this film by Walter Donaldson and the great Irving Berlin.

"The Great Zeigfeld" won three Academy Awards in 1936 and was nominated for four more.  Kudos to William Powell for a splendid performance as Flo Ziegfeld. I found this to be an outstanding film on so many levels.  It is a movie that I could watch again and again.  Highly recommended!