Three goddesses, motorcycles, Heaven as a computer network, demons, and one boy with it all around him.  Where else but Ah! My Goddess!?
Ah! My Goddess the movie focuses on Celestine, a god whom after being released by faeiry princess Morgan Le Faye from his Lunar prison, has rebelled against Yggdrasil and wants to end human suffering.  To do this, he needs the power Belldandy holds within herself.  He travels to Earth where he erases all the memory of Belldandy since she came to Earth... mainly all of her memories of Keiichi!
This is a great title from Pioneer/AIC.  It helps to have watched the original AnimEigo OVA series before seeing the movie or at least having some background from the manga series (for instance, the movie carries a few references that are not explained in the OVAs).  This is somewhat supposed to be a 'stand-alone' movie, but the complexity of the series deems it otherwise.  The movie also carries many symbolic symbols that Ah! My Goddess fans should recognize immediately, some I can't list because that would be a spoiler ^_^.
Being a fan of old-school anime, I'm not really in computer graphic (CG) animation, but the CG used in the Ah! My Goddess movie is done real well and the overall animation is quit nice.  If you've watch the third Tenchi Muyo movie, the characters look very similar in animation style to them (no surprize as the animation company behind AMG the movie is the same that did the Tenchi Muyo animation, AIC.)
Voiceovers are also done great, including the dubbed voices which reflect their OVA counterparts well, except Skuld who now sounds like Sasami from Tenchi Muyo and Keiichi's voice is considerably different.  Sound effects and the soundtrack is equally impressive and enjoyable.
The first episode of The Adventures of Mini-Goddess side-story is cute and enjoyable, but a little too short.  It provides us with a look of the series that will be released by Pioneer soon.
Be aware also Kei/Bell fans that this movie goes into their relationship more than the OVAs ever did.  It actually gets a little disturbing at times and then becomes quite lovely again.  Also the humor found in the OVAs are nowhere to be found here.  The movie is quite serious with only little humor here and there.
Overall, I say this is a fabulous anime title as is the series itself.  If you haven't bought this title yet, do it now!  You'll enjoy it.