This is by far and away the very best version of A Christmas Carol to ever be put on film (better than the terrible Alastir Sim version everyone raves about).

This movie cuts out the depressing things, like Scrooge's home being pilaged after his death and Marley removing the cloth from around his head and letting his jaw drop creepily, as well as the "too much" stuff like the scene from the past showing Scrooge and his girlfriend.

It's not overly mushy, just warm-hearted and charming, and it gets right to the point of telling the story with charm and a bright Christmas message. There are many light-hearted, fun scenes we get to see as they warm Scrooge's heart, and the movie does a wonderful job of showing us Scrooge's reclaimation in an uplifting way.

No one, but no one, can touch Reginald Owen as Scrooge. Lionel Barrymore hand-picked Reginald Owen to replace him as Scrooge for the movie. The best cast that could be assembled was already signed and the sets already built when Lionel, who'd always played Scrooge on the radio, was injured and couldn't do it. It speaks volumes that Lionel Barrymore thought enough of Reginald Owen's ability to have him be his replacement. And Lionel was right! Owen plays and looks the part perfectly.

The supporting cast is absolutely wonderful as well, including the great Gene Lockhart. Everyone from Tiny Tim to Fred, Scrooge's nephew, to the Ghosts of Christmas to Marley are superb. There is not one thing to be changed that could make this movie any better (except when Ann Sheridan says to Scrooge after he remarks how kind his old boss was, "Yes, but he's dead now."--my whole family laughs at the remark ;) ). Everything is done to complete perfection. I've watched every single version of this story, including many plays, and now I will not watch any other version because they seem so horrible by comparison. With Reginald Owen's brilliance in the part, the wonderful cast, and the wonderful interpretation and telling of the tale, nothing is more perfect than this version.

You get some good laughs with this warm, "fuzzy-feeling-inside" version and a big smile through the whole thing. It's not Christmas without watching this version.