I was not too impressed with this film. It was not the color, dialogue, captions, or the lack of a talking dinosaur that let me down- the movie failed to connect with me. For me, it was like watching The Blair Witch Project: you watch because it is something to watch and at the end youre left wanting a little more.

Rundown:
In this movie, "Eden Log" is a corporation that is trying to find an element to unite all people. Something goes wrong and like those Resident Evil travesties, a character gets amnesia and cant remember whats going on, comes across monsters, clean up teams, and the few survivors and computer files to just get a simple understanding before they conveniently die or break. The ending arrives when you expect it to but is lackluster. Thinking about it, "Eden Log" does seem like a French version of "Resident Evil".

Speaking on the plot, there needs to be some clarification. American cinema is not universal cinema. European films have their own method of engaging the audience. Knowing this will save a viewer frustration if they have not seen any imported films. Knowing key difference between American cinema and European cinema, Im still not sure "Eden Log" would be enjoyable to all. There could be some interesting takes on symbology, possible allegories, and the role of colors but Amazon is not the place.

I did not watch the English version. Im the type of viewer that watches a foreign film in its original language. This means, like the other reviews state, watching the poor quality version that is listed in the Special Features. To my surprise, the quality was not all that bad. The reason being, I watched the film on a PS3. Like most newer players, it upscalled the quality and fit the image to the widescreen TV. If anyone is to watch this movie on a player that does not upscale but is hooked up to any widescreen HDTV via RCA jacks, the quality is going to be horrible. Its simple technobabble. If a viewer has no issue with the higher quality English version then by all means watch that version.