Forcing a young woman into marriage when she is not ready does not make her happy and is generally agreed upon, outside a few uber-religious communities, as not the right thing to do.  The latest Disney heroine to take on the concept is Merida, protagonist of "Brave," a rebellious redhead with a prowess in archery as a result of a gift bestowed upon her by a boisterous but loving father.  This is much to the dismay of her mother who wishes her to take on what many today regard as an antiquated feminine role of passivity and elegance.  The process with which she must choose her husband involves a competition among her suitors in an activity of her choice, which turns out to be--you guessed it--archery.  Needless to say, Merida, in a toast to girl power, shows up her three mediocre, socially-inept suitors with her own archery skills and proceeds to address her overall marital issue through a spell that changes the one forcing the marriage issue, her mother, into a bear.  This provides for some intense moments as Merida is forced to defend and care for her mother in light of her father who is determined to avenge a lost limb by killing the bear.

The problems with this story are twofold:  First, fighting forced marriage is bit like fighting the Holy Roman Empire.  It is a noble fight but the enemy really doesn't exist anymore, outside a few cloistered segments of society, with whom most of the audience probably doesn't associate anyways.  Plus, Jasmine and Mulan already fought that battle, succeeded, and had presumably brought even the most obstinate detractors onboard.  Second, it is unclear exactly how showing up her suitors or turning her mother into a bear helped to win her case.  She proved that she had better aim than her suitors, but so what?  Many a successful husband has been landed without the foggiest notion on how to operate a bow-and-arrow.  Then, the bear bit showed that she could take care of her mother in spite of an army of adversaries led by none other than her father.  But again, so what?  If the mother's motivation for a forced marriage was the security of the kingdom, would such an antic really eliminate that notion?

The final product feels like a rush job, where several individuals of varying interests were summoned to assemble a product to meet various business objectives, with the story secondary.  The product should be the first Pixar to feature a female lead to tap into the young, soccer-playing girls who find it gratifying to show up their male counterparts.  Check.  It should have some fights so that the young male audience doesn't perceive it as a "girl's movie" and avoid it.  Check.  It should showcase Pixar's animation to be a cut above anything produced elsewhere.  Check.  It should include some magic or witchcraft so that it does not come across as an animated version of a Jane Austen novel.  Check.

In spite of its splendid animation, the movie ultimately fails not because of its female protagonist or its magic.  It fails because of a flawed story concerning an overused adversary.