Having watched "Shock corridor" recently, it left me with mixed feelings. Some of the elements in this movie about a journalist who fakes mental illness to get himself committed to a psycho ward in order to investigate a murder, were so outdated that they almost irritated me. What perhaps at the time of release would have been pretty amazing, is now nothing more than a hat full of cheap gimmicks and tricks.

The hysterical voice-over by journalist Johnny Barret sounds cheesy and corny; it's too explanatory and to much `acted out'. Actor Peter Breck may be just trying too much here, and so destroys what might have been a really imagnitive role with a lot of potence.

What bothered me even more was the complete clich&eacute;d manner in which psychiatric disturbed people (loonies) were portrayed: without any exception the mentally ill people on the ward are expressionisticly gesting and articulating and mimicing characters who seem to have been taken out some long-lost deleted scenes from the 1919 expressionistic psycho-movie "Das Cabinet des Dr. Caligari".

Having said this, there are some moments that really have managed to be exiting and thrilling, even after so many years: there is the rough, cutting-edge cinematic form in which the movie is shot and edited - unpolished and harsh, (with a stark use of black and white which reminds us of that other dark classic, "The Third man"), its images sometimes seem to hammer in the viewers face.

Then there is the relatively great amount of time in which the characters (namely the three alleged witnesses to the murder) are getting a chance to explain / show / express / contemplate their madness and what had triggered it.

It's here that big social issues, like American patriotism versus the (unreasonable?) Angst for communism, racial matters, and the invention and destructiveness of the atomic bomb, all which have caused many people to lose their heads over, come in to play.

These `mind shattering issues' are accompanied by flash-backs in color, that are even more menacing than that they are warm or comfortable, which you might want to expect. And all of a sudden, it's no longer just the sanity of indiviuals that are at stake here, but the combined sanity of social structures and society in general that's in dispute.

The surrealistic scene near the end in which the "corridor", or the hallway in the psycho ward is trashed by a huge rain shower, and in which a totally frantic Johnny Barret finally looses his mind completely, is horrifying, almost unreal, and a complete mindbender in its own way.

Its a brilliant scene in which we all loose our minds for a moment, and, thank God for that, because if you manage to keep a straight face after this transcedenting piece of social cinema, then you're the one who's really crazy.