I just got this DVD at Christmas time and it was the first audio or video recording of Elvis that I have ever owned... or even sat and watched or listened to.  The Elvis mythology is obviously deeply ingrained in our culture and you feel like you know a lot about the King, but I was surprised about how I felt like I was watching something I had never seen before.
About the movie:  I have to think that this is the best concert footage that exists anywhere of the King.  And I like how it starts out with the "behind the scenes footage" that builds up to the concert.  You really get to see the human side of Elvis and I really liked the guy.  You get the feeling that he always goofed around but movie-producing types back in those days didn't like to show it.  The concert footage is amazing.  Elvis seems on top of his game and his voice is amazing.
About the DVD:  I have heard a few comments about the audio not being that great, but I thought that it was fine.  It is at least as good as anything else that was filmed in 1970.  I have also read that some people didn't like how the film was re-worked since it first came out.  I didn't see the original version, but I am not to interested in watching interviews with Elvis-fans, I wanted to see the King himself, doing what he did best.  The Patch It Up documentary was fine, it didn't really add a lot - I think that documentaries about documentaries are never going to add much.
If I have one complaint about the movie and DVD, it is that they were too short.  I would have liked it to be longer - maybe by about 3-4 more songs.
This will sound corny, but this DVD alone has really turned me into an Elvis fan.  I have gone from not knowing or caring much about him, to wanting to know a lot in less than 2 weeks.  I enjoyed the music and singing, but I guess that is what I expected.  What I didn't expect is to find out how normal Elvis seemed back stage and what a great entertainer he was on stage.  I think that he was the King because he was the King of crowd pleasing.
The last thing I want to say is that this movie led me to purchase the '68 Comeback Special and Aloha from Hawaii DVDs.  I have only watched them each once, but my initial impression is that I am disappointed.  The '68 Comeback Special seems too hokey and tries to cover too many genres of music - psychadelic, gospel, etc.  In Aloha from Hawaii, Elvis seems too subdued.  Those two DVDs show the Elvis that I was expecting to see before I watched That's The Way It Is.  Any way, I will have to review those DVDs separately after I have watched them a few more times.  My point in bringing them up here is to say that, by comparison, That's The Way It Is is MUCH better and if you are like I was - you are kind of interested in Elvis and you want to see him at his best - you should start by buying this DVD.
Jeremy