I love this dvd.  It's very easy to use and you can pre-program what workout you want to do, depending on your time constraints, your own physical needs and level.

1.  20 minute cardio workout. I'm doing the low intensity (a high intensity is also available) cardio and I find it very enjoyable to do.  I love all the workouts in this segment - those which include the grapevine, shuffle, lunges, rainbow, and almost all the movements.  Even my 3-year old daughter loves them, so she imitates me while watching me workout.  I went through the high intensity and for me, the low intensity is a lot more fun.

2. 10 minute upper body.  I'm also doing the low intensity (but dvd has medium & high too) but instead of the chair, I use the stability ball when I'm doing the weights.  I find it's more flexible to do it with a ball than on a chair.

3. 10 minute lower body.  I don't consider my lower body a main problem spot, so for now, I skip this section due to time constraints.  That's why this dvd is so good, you can choose what you want, depending on your needs!  This is also available in low, medium and high intensity.  I went through the section, though, and find variety of lower body exercises which I haven't seen some yet.  I have to try this when I have the luxury of time. ;-)

4. 10 minute abs.  This is my problem spot so I always make it a point to do this all the time.  This is tough and you would really feel it working in all sections of your abs.  There are a lot of variation in the basic crunches which I find very useful.  I hope it works visibly, though!  I have a lot of flab hiding my 6-pack.  LOL!

5.  The last segment is the stretching which is basically the usual stretching we see, but of course, very important in the cool down.

All in all, I give this dvd a 5+ stars for being easy to use and the workouts being doable but effective.  I guess I'm fast becomming a Denise fan.  I enjoy her workouts and for me her talkies are not distracting.  But if you get annoyed with her voice, there's also a function to play music only.  Buy this, it is worth it!