If you didn't know it...Haxan is a silent movie.  It is a really good silent movie too (that is if you like movies that don't have Vin Deisel rocking out your subwoofers with huge explosions).  The film starts out seeminly like a documentary about Withcraft through history.  The film follows that path, but is just so strange and fascinating that you will most likely forget all about the documentary part.  Instead of like basic documentaries shown today on the History Channel, Haxan's historical scenes are actually acted out in true film fashion.  The catch is that Satan actually is in the film (played by the director himself).  Once things start flying, horned demons go out dancing, and the peasants start kissing the director's a$$ (wow...now that is a true statement about Hollywood...MADE ALMOST A HUNDRED YEARS AGO), it is no longer a documentary, it is some freaky comedy played out with an humourously lighthearted soundtrack.  Criterion even went as far as to include the original shading to the film (nothing beats a red washed scene quickly switching to blue, then back to red before going into a true black and white scene).  To be honest, the colour shadings get kind of annoying (even if they are true to how the film originally was).  Yet, they can be easily corrected by adjusting your television set.  
If you want a shorter film about Satan set to a jazzy soundtrack, there is another version of the film included on the DVD for your viewing pleasure.  It is also narrated by a very famous person with a voice that just makes you smile every time Satan gets a mortal soul eternally damned to hell.  Nothing beats laughing at eternal damnation while listening to an excellenct jazz soundtrack.
Basically, Haxan is a very good film if you like silent films.  It isn't the best silent film out there, but it is still extremely interesting.  Of course, it isn't for everyone, mainly just for the collectors and those who enjoy the fine intracacies of the silent film era.  There is good news though!  Even if aren't a film buff, a fan of silent films, or interested in this film in anyway, there are a couple of ways that this film can appeal to you (both of which have been experienced first-hand with highly positive results...honestly).
1.  Play this film at a party, when everyone gets drunk, nothing is more hilarious than watching peasants kissing Satan's [behind].  In fact, watching that scene over and over again while drunk can be the life of any dead party.
2.  If you are in a death metal band (particularly one that seems obsessed with the 80's hair metal scene) then grab yourself a digital projector and project this film behind you while you play.  You are guaranteed to have roadies before the stockades make an appearance.  If you have an extremely long set, either hit play again or switch out Haxan with Freaks halfway through.