One day I asked my father what was the worst film he ever saw. He named Plan 9 right away. When I first sat down and watched this movie right from the very beginning I knew that this was going to be interseting at least.
  When Criswell say's "We are all interested in the future for that is were we will spend the rest of our lives" you know that with writing like that you are in for a trip.
  The movie is written,produced,and directed by Edward D. Wood Jr. Ed would go down in history as the worst director of all time. The plot is at least an interesting one. Aliens come to earth to stop us from making a bomb that will destroy the universe. At face this is not a bad plot. However in the hands of Ed Wood you know no good will come of it. And it doesn't.
  Some of the worst diolauge ever is right here in this movie like-
"Don't worry you'll be up there, and i'll be in there' and they'll be up there."
"You humans are stupid, stupid, stupid."
"Well one thing's for sure. The captins dead. Murdered. And somones responsible."
  There is more over acting in this movie than ever on one screen. The addition of cult fav Tor Johnson as a police captin is really funny as is vampira who whould not talk in the film.
  As you may know the late Bella Lagosi is in the movie for all of tem minutes and get's top billing. Bella, at this time broke and hooked on drugs, had an interesting friendship with Wood and stared in two other movies, (Bride of the Monster, and the awful Glen or Glenda) and is the only bright spot in any of Woods films.
  Tim Burton made the movie ED WOOD in the 90's and it recieved wild success. Martin Landau would win an oscar for his role as Bella and the movies would bring people to see Wood's films. When watching ED WOOD you say to you'r self 'There is no way he was that bad' then you see the movie and understand he was.
  Ed Wood did have a real passion for the movie biz and a real zeal about his movies. however it also clouded his judgement to see that he could neither act, write, produce, or direct. Ed Wood is the worst ever but his movies are some of the funniest. It is ironic to think that the worst director of all time is responsible for a great actor winning the industry's highest award.