What is it about this perennial soap opera which remains such a timeless diversion? While not a perfect film by any means, it nevertheless lingers in the psyche once seen. More than any other character in the film, Janis Wilson seems to be singled out for her rather annoying portrayal of Tina. The most mawkish scenes are those in which she and Davis interact together: i.e. "This is Jerry's child I have in my arms" et al. That aspect and the rather forced and unfunny humor from the Argentine cab driver are the film's two major drawbacks. But most of the film is splendid. The script is pretty true to the original Olive Higgins Prouty novel and the film benefits immensely from the inspired performances of Claude Rains and Gladys Cooper. Cooper has a genuine triumph in her playing of a frankly witch-from-hell shrike of a mother who dominates her spinster daughter unmercifully. After the film was released back in 1942 Davis herself received literally hundreds of letters from young women in the same predicament! Claude Rains is his usual brilliant self as the gently mocking, kind and benevolent Jacquith. His scenes with Davis in her bedroom upstairs are real and thought provoking. Ilka Chase is sophisticated but kindly concerned for Charlotte, who in turn appreciates Lisa's "interference". But this is Bette's picture ALL the way. From the moment we see her Oxfords coming down those stairs, we know we are in for a tour-de-force Davis performance. Originally Paul Henried's screen test horrified Davis, because his hair was slicked back with hair tonic and he was quite stiff in his acting technique (the producers thinking this was very Continental and European, apparently). Davis saw to it that his both appearance and acting were both more natural and softened somewhat. Cooper had the utmost admiration for Davis and confided that to those who would listen that she was a genius who could have done "anything". As June, Charlotte's cheeky neice, Bonita Granville is adequate and attractive. The beautiful score by Max Steiner is one of the most loved (and most famous) done for any picture anytime. This is classic Hollywood moonshine, impeccably distilled.