Having just seen the film, I have to say "Boys Don't Cry" is one of the most amazing films I've ever seen. Swank's performance could have gone horribly wrong, and yet she kept the tour de force up for the entire  two hours of this mesmerizing film. What I liked about it was:
1. The  direction: Remember, this is a first film. Kimberly Pierce had worked five  years to bring her script to the screen, and does so in a refreshing,  UNPRETENTIOUS way I really related to. Like "In Cold Blood" and  "Badlands" she focused on the life of these midwestern characters  in such a genuine way that I wouldn't be surprised how people might not be  blown away by it. In fact, it is a SUBTLE approach that I find more  effective in films, I'm all for special effects as in "The  Matrix" and the aesthetic elements of say, "American  Beauty," but Pierce's ear for dialogue and her vision of Falls City as  this vast wasteland where young people don't have much of a future and are  filled up with frustrations was inspiring. She told a HUMAN INTEREST STORY  against BIGOTRY in such a DECENT way that even the VILLAINS came out as  being all too human. The narrative structure, while not flashy, was quite  complex and hard to get away with. There was a flow to the film that gave  it the heart that was needed to accurately represent the characters. It's a  SHAME that Pierce fell to the wayside in the awards season--simplicity  seems to be overlooked because most people don't realize that attaining  such an ability is the hardest thing in the world.
2. The acting: Hilary  WAS a boy. Her movements, her countenace, everything. Our complicity with  her character made me realize just how strong a performance she gave. Every  second, in her face, I could see the fear of being found out. All the  complexities of Brandon Teena came alive with a movement of the lips or  with a certain look. The need to please everyone while at the same time  compensating her mere existence with lies and deceit. It is a very  demanding role that she pulled off magnificently. And more importantly, it  is a new kind of role. I've seen the controlling/hysterical woman Annette  Bening played (Faye Dunaway in "Network" to name one). But in the  type of role Swank had to play she had little to work with (Jaye Davidson's  Dil in "The Crying Game" comes to mind) and yet she avoided  becoming a pitiful figure, and managed to give Brandon an inner beauty that  wasn't preachy or contrived.  CHLOE SEVIGNY was incredible. As a matter of  fact, she impressed me even more than Swank. It is a subtle, powerful  performance that also rises above any other "girlfriend" type  role I have ever seen. She endowes Lana with the ability to really love and  care for Brandon and is truly the ray of hope in an otherwise dark movie.  PETER SASGAARD is also a stand out as John Lotter, because he was so human.  An insecure, childish, violent man who is also capable of showing a lot of  affection for his daughter. The undercurrents of BRENDAN SAXTON III's  performance are also worth mentioning simply because  it shows without a  lot of words the confusion he must have felt when he found himself  attracted to this "guy."  There are so many layers to this film  that I could go on and on praising it. Of course I have one problem with  it: 
1. THE FACTS: Like "The Insider," "The  Hurricane," and a million other films, BDC plays with the facts.  Another person was murdered in that house, an African American male. I feel  that for the film's sake, it was VITAL to focus on the Lana/Brandon  relationship, but being familiar with the case, I thought they could have  handled the misrepresentation of the third victim better.
In short, it  was an amazing movie. Best one I've seen since "Election." But  unlike "Election," it doesn't deal with already explored themes.  This is unexplored territory Ms. Pierce was going into, and she came  out--as far as I'm concerned--as an extremely promising filmmaker who will  hopefully continue to tell socially relevant stories in this f&amp;#*ed up  world in which baseball fans give a standing ovation to a bigott and even  wear t-shirts that say "JOHN ROCKER FOR PRESIDENT"