In my opinion, The Magnificent Seven is among the best movies of all time.  It is made in the classic Western style, but perhaps due to the adaptation from the Seven Samaurai, it has a lot of the elements of modern movie  characters:  morally ambiguous anti-heroes who face a personal crossroads  but ultimately choose the right path.
This movie adds new angles to the  conventional Western plot.  A group of 40 bandits led by a robust but  ruthless leader named Calvera (Eli Wallach)continously raids a poor farming  village for food and other provisions.  A group of villagers go north of  the border to enlist hired guns to protect them.  Eventually, a cool  gunslinger by the name of Chris (Yul Brynner) organizes a team of seven  able mercenaries to defend the village for a meager fee.  The group works  well together and inspires the villagers to join the fight to drive Calvera  out.  After some success, the group suffers some adversity against  considerable odds.  In the end, both the visitors and the villagers learn  about the price -- and payoff -- of resisting injustice.
This movie is  truly driven by its great characters.  Yul Brynner and Steve McQueen, who  plays Brynner's de facto lieutenant Vin,  could have likely done this movie  by themselves.  Their chemistry reminds me of Newman and Redford in Butch  Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, but with a drier humor.  I would have loved  to have seen them in more movies together.
I liked all of the Seven, but  two others really stood out.  Charles Bronson was impressive as the  hard-edged O'Reilly, and played the role with a sense of humor and warmth  without losing his stoic demeanor.  Horst Buchholz was extremely impressive  as the young gun ("Chico") who goes through an identity crisis as  he is torn between the romanticism of being a gunslinger and the  contrasting ethics of his heritage.  Why wasn't he in more movies?  Eli  Wallach is superb as the boisterous, scenery-chewing Calvera, and Wallach  brings gives a sense of humor and empathy to the role which distinguishes  it from most movie villains I've seen.  The village leaders were also very  good.
The style and tone of this movie reminds me of the anti-hero type  movies made in the late 60's and early 70's and the buddy/action-type  movies of the current era.  It also has two of the best cinematic gunfights  I have ever seen.  You owe it to yourself to at least see this one.  I plan  on adding The Magnificent Seven to my library and hopefully showing it to  my kids someday.