I love most things Superman, so it would have to be really bad to get a bad review from me. Lois & Clark combined romance with the Superman character, so they had a viewer in me! Like so many shows, the last year had a much more dramatic feel to it than the more comic way in which they started. There were still idiotic, evil characters, but Dean Cain & Teri Hatcher played it straight, which is the only way some of the episodes didn't seem totally ridiculous. It didn't have any of the comic book feel.
I missed Teri Hatcher playing it for laughs. Her character got very serious in the later shows. I missed ther ability to make you laugh one minute and capture a dramatic moment the next. Part of that was by getting them married, a lot of the competition and sexual tension was completely irradicated. I think if they made them still very competitive in the marriage, there might have been more to key off to make things interesting.

What I liked about Lois & Clark was that the show was about "Clark Kent". I loved how they explored that side of him. He was, after all, posing as a human since we was found as an infant. Christopher Reeve's portrayal made Clark act geekish. No other Superman had ever been portrayed that way, so it wasn't out of character for Dean to play him as a Clark desireous of being human, but wanting to help mankind with his abilities.

While I loved the romance, I think putting them together as a married couple lost a lot of the audience (i.e. teenage boys who probably didn't get off on all the smooching that went on after the 2nd season). I think at that point, it definitely became a woman's show!

Smallville was different from this show in that they did put Clark together with his girlfriend Lana. I think if they let Clark fly, the show would have already ended.  Lois & Clark eliminated all the surprise, the competition between the two characters, and any sexual tension once they were married. I was sorry it ended without resolving their childless situation. Obviously the writers were setting it up for Season 5, which never happened. I guess no one was interested in the further adventures of Lois & Clark & Baby.