Have you ever heard of this film before?  ... The basic plot, such as it is,  appears something like this: A civilized family is traveling to California when their station wagon suddenly breaks down.  Being city folk, the group soon realizes that they are unprepared for survival in the desert.  The group contends with the heat, the dust, and the barren appearance of the god forsaken environment. They soon realize that these are small matters when compared to the group of inbred hillbilly cannibals watching them from the cliffs, waiting for a ripe moment to rape, pillage, and eventually consume the city slickers.  Now the driving question: what is the point of this motion picture?  Are you looking for philosophy? Director and Screenwriter Wes Craven certainly devotes ample time to the dissection of what it means to be civilized, and why this can be both a curse and a blessing for mankind.  The curse lies within the idea that a group of people can become so attached to modern society that they lose all form of communication with the natural world.  This character flaw almost costs the life of each family member.  Civilized existence can also be a blessing.  After all, the group uses technology like automobiles and handguns to defeat the malicious cannibals and, upon consideration of these hill people, one is thankful that their way of life does not persist.  As mankind evolves, our tolerance for the giving and taking of pain and suffering weakens, and along with this goes our belief in the Darwinian notion of survival of the fittest.  It may be a chaotic universe and nothing may really matter in the end, but I think most of mankind would agree that the infliction of pain on another for no practical reason is not only senseless, but disgusting.  Though actual philisophical dialogue is nonexistent, the feeling and emotion of this philosophy is imbued within the entire structure of the film.  What about the rest of it?  Does the film have any other redeemable qualities?  Like the philisophical approach, it all depends on what sort of viewer one chooses to be.  The film itself is highly original, unbelievably frightening, and very disturbing, which explains why it has become a cult hit amongst the horror movie crowd.  If one were writing a college thesis on cannibalism, this film might serve as a welcome companion to, say, the 1999 film "Ravenous".  Actor Michael Berryman makes an appearance as the cannibal named Pluto, along with his trademark bug eyes and bald head. Berryman also returns as the main villain in the film's sequel, "The Hills Have Eyes II".  Michael Berryman has literally made an entire career out of playing eccentric characters in small bit roles, always utilizing but not wholly depending on his very unusual physical appearance.  Combine this with the fact that Berryman really is a talented actor and this has all the making of a memorable screen appearance.  The bottom line is that Horror fans and cannibal scholars will probably love the film, philosophers may enjoy the existential mood and feel of it, and people simply looking for a scare may discover more than they are willing to bargain for.  From a personal standpoint, I am generally not a horror movie buff and do not plan on writing a thesis on cannibalism in the near future.  I can get philosophy anywhere and, other than Michael Berryman, the film held little for me to jump and cheer about.  Objectively, "The Hills Have Eyes" is a small but solid motion picture and will definitely appeal to its proper audience.  So watch what you eat!  One may never know who lurks in the outskirts of civilization, or how hungry they may become!  You have been warned. 
FINAL RATING: 3 out of 5 Stars
FINAL GRADE: C+
*Notable Appearance: Michael Berryman*