After quitting the London cast of Jesus Christ Superstar over creative differences, actor Richard O'Brien needed an activity to fill some idle time.  He started tinkering with an idea for a rock musical play that would combine all the things that "give you a buzz," from horror and science-fiction films to comedy and glam rock.  Impressed by the media coverage of Alice Cooper's recent concert assaults on London, O'Brien created what he initially called an "Alice Cooper type Frankenstein" character named Dr. Frank-N-Furter, who would build a blond muscleman for his own pleasure.  The rough idea for "Rock Horroar" went into rehearsals as "They Came From Denton High," and was finally retitled "The Rocky Horror Show" before opening an intended three-week run (expanded to five) at the 63-seat Royal Court Theatre Upstairs in June 1973.  It transferred to larger theatres and ran for seven years before being revived.After winning major London theatre awards, The Rocky Horror Show was staged in America with Tim Curry at Lou Adler's Roxy Theatre in L.A. in March 1974.  During its ten-month run there, Lou Adler teamed with producer Michael White to produce a film version in England, using most of the English cast (Curry, O'Brien, Nell, Quinn, Adams) and singing discovery Meat Loaf from the Roxy cast.  After the play's failed month on Broadway, The Rocky Horror Picture Show premiered in London on August 14, 1975, and struggled to find its audience.  The film closely follows the satiric tone of the play, deriving its humor from stilted, deadpan sci-fi dialogue mixed with gender-bending imagery and loud rock and roll. It subverts classic science-fiction films by having the innocent Brad and Janet incredulously confront an outrageous alien mad doctor in place of a bug-eyed monster, as though Alice Cooper had renovated Dr. Frankenstein's lab for a musical version of It Came From Outer Space.  The cast is a wonderful collection of cartoonish eccentrics: Tim Curry's androgynous Frank; Richard O'Brien's weird, balding hunchback Riff Raff; Little Nell's squeaking, pink-haired groupie Columbia; Meat Loaf's tenor-voiced biker Eddie; Peter Hinwood's perfectly pumped beefcake Rocky Horror.The film is worth seeing on the big screen, for the "audience participation" and Jim Sharman's detailed use of the frame, but holds up equally well on DVD.  Before audiences celebrated their love of the film by vocally including themselves in the experience, there was the film.  By turns energetic when introducing the alien dance craze "The Time Warp," ponderous when satirizing the pomposity of over-serious 50s sci-fi films, and sexually challenging when Tim Curry's Joan Crawford-esque Frank gazes into the camera (in tribute to Jean-Luc Godard, Jim Sharman's favorite director), The Rocky Horror Picture Show works as a strangely seductive musical fantasy, cleverly blending Richard O'Brien's pop culture obsessions into a multicolored collage that holds the secret- to life- itself!