The movie begins with a clip out of history. Fitting, you'd think, seeing as this is a film based off of History and several Points of View. The clip fades away and the story begins. A busy office building filled with News Reporters, young and old, experienced and just out of school first timers fills the viewing screen. A perfect atmosphere for a scandal uncovered by the effort of two Reporters.

  So let us quickly analyze this movie, starting with the altogether effects. Lighting. The lighting of the altogether movie was decent. Things were respectively lit for certain occasions and usually they worked. When Deep Throat is included, though, the lighting changes for a different effect. Alas, this effect, which one would assume is to create an air of mystery, merely makes Deep Throat look molding. The images that triggered in my mind were the pictures a person usually experiences in a horror movie: something of rotting corpses in the depths of large bodies of water. Blue, old and unwanted. This air of "decaying" could have been altered, but is really the only qualm one can find to complain about in the area.

  Now then, onto acting. The casting was down perfectly. Hoffman was perfect for the role of Bernstein: energetic and ruthless. Dustin Hoffman has always been able to pull this persona off, as seen through a myriad of his later movies such as Outbreak. Redford for Woodward was also a wise choice. He seems unsure about his position but determined to achieve what he's set out to accomplish. Perfect. The portrayals of the other characters are also well fitted. The cast had chemistry; they mixed well instead of exploding in your face like a room full of hormone driven teenagers starving for attention.

  So how did the script flow? Pretty well. From beginning to end, I was able to keep a hold on what information I'd been fed and what was happening in the story. Occasionally I got lost or confused, but we'll blame that on my short attention span and mutli-tasking efforts for the time being. There isn't much I can actually pick at in the final product of the story. The director made things flow, from interagation to interagation and deadline to deadline. Bernstein and Woodward were believable and their efforts eventually fell into place.

  The only major problem with the altogether film was the Ending. From the busy office of the Washington Post you were taken to the busy mechanics of a type writer, going mad with information. And then the screen fades to silent credits. There was no soundtrack, so the credits and their silence fell into place with the altogether effect that the lack of music created. No, the problem was left with the last image. While viewers should understand that there was quite sometime before an actual conclusion and definite answer to the scandal was reached and that this is an attempt to illustrate this, the viewers should be left with something a bit more thought provoking. A suggestion from the depths of my mind would be ending with the same way they started; with a clip from history. One such clip that would end the film on the right note would have been that of President Nixon at the podium, claiming, "I am not a crook." And then fading from there. As viewers would know, he lied quite definitely. Nixon was in fact a crook and the efforts of the two glorified reporters in "All the President's Men" kicked off the discovery and revealed it to the Public.

  All in all, with the exception of a few mishaps that are altogether forgiveable, "All the President's Men" is a worth a watch film. It clues the younger generation in on the actual uproar about the scandal. "So the president lied? Don't all people?" is usually the response from a student who merely hears about the Watergate scandal over and over again. The movie hits home and brings to light the trouble Nixon dug himself into as well as the efforts two reporters went to for the truth to be revealed to the Nation.