I'll be honest: I liked the movie. As an avid fan of cultural studies, I enjoyed the examination and analysis of the MPAA. The movie simply asks: Why do we let a handful of anonymous people determine what is and is not acceptable to show in a movie theater?

Along the way, the movie raises a number of intriguing questions - why do they bring in two priests to sit in on discussions? Why do they always choose the same two religions for those priests? Do the members of the MPAA live up to their promised qualifications? Is there anything concrete about the rating process?

Unfortunately, many of these questions remain unanswered. The film is a good polemic, it raises thought and discussion, but the director hits a rock wall in his attempts to provide answers.

There's plenty of interesting material here - the discussion of Team America: World Police's utterly ridiculous sex scene, the methods for getting edgy material past the MPAA (the hilarious finding that the MPAA doesn't care -how- you changed something, as long as you changed it), these are interesting.

The absolute highlight of the film, though, is the side-by-side comparison of R-rated heterosexual sex scenes with NC-17-rated homosexual sex scenes. The film presents a series of suspiciously similar scenes that only differ based on orientation - showing the way that the MPAA shuts down attempts to portray homosexuality equally to heterosexuality in mainstream film. The sequence, to me, is one of the best and most brutal cultural critiques ever put to film.

However, This Film Is Not Yet Rated lags after this scene - none of the material afterward lives up to the cultural exploration done in that scene.

As other reviews have noted, the film comes across as petty and sophomoric at times - the scenes with the private investigator made me uncomfortable than anything else. I feel that this can be forgiven given the film's general irreverent tone - it's clear from the comical title sequence that the documentary wishes to inform a little, entertain a little more than that, and mostly thumb its nose at the MPAA.

Overall, I can recommend it - but the whole does not live up to the sum of its parts.