A stunning film about the great Japanese writer whose spectacular suicide at the Japanese Defense Headquarters shocked the world.
If you haven't read Mishima's novels, I suggest that to get to the heart of the man you read his " The Way of the Samurai: Yukio Mishima on Hagakure in Modern Life " it's a working through of the ancient samurai classic, which poses the question of how to live like one--in a modern Japan inhabited by businessman and golfers. 
The answer, though not fully admitted by Mishima, is that there's no way in hell. 
Nor is there much hope for artists, romantics, knights or anyone else who follows the dictates of his soul on this planet. Go to college, have kids and be grateful if Sony hires you.
Even though Mishima is not explicit the reader will see this is a suicide waiting to happen. "Why live on and be despised as a bungler or a fool?" (Hagakure)
What this film captures brilliantly in its theme is the essence of a man who suffers through the knowledge that not only has his youth has gone and with it, the hope for better days, but more importantly, the realization that his life has been ultimately irrelevent. 
Why? 
Because, quite simply, it is a mistake to survive the death of one's country. . .
Predictably, as with Mishima's writings, this film has garnered tons of awards but has not proven a tremendous draw among the golfers and businessmen. 
They need to dismiss him as a crank: A  repressed bisexual with an over inflated view of masculinity, a political radical, a crazy artist, someone in  dire need of medication.
In short, anything but a mirror to the world we live in.

I find it hard to praise this film highly enough, from the use of "theater sets " for the 'fictional' segments---taken from Mishima's novels and short stories, that are interspersed between the biographical sections of his life. To Phillip Glass's outstanding musical score.
The saddest moment in the film is not his doomed and impassioned speech to the Japanese Defense Ministry soldiers--who shout him down as he bows to the emperor, nor his subsequent ritual seppuku. 
Far more poignant is an earlier scene in which Mishima, on the small stage of a hotel convention floor, stands with a handfull of followers, attired in dress uniforms looking like something out of a Japanese Loyola Military Boy's Academy--addressing a few, scattered reporters as to how they should not be dismissed as "toy soldiers" as his Japanese critics contend, but should be viewed instead for what they are, a "spiritual army".
The incongruity of the carpeted floor, the waiters clankingly removing the dishes to make way for the next convention, the bored reporters---I mean where does this guy think he is anyway? 
Among Samurai?