I love this movie.  Judge me all you want - it's a great movie!  I love a cheesy chick-flick, but I wouldn't really classify this movie as such.  It's more than that - it's deeper somehow.  I'm not going to lie - it has its moments, but it's an honest and frank look at relationships and destiny.  Timing is everything - and I really believe that.

The story follows Oliver (Ashton Kutcher) and Emily (Amanda Peet) - and begins 7 years in the past.  The unlikely pair meet on an airplane - Oliver a straight-laced college graduate and Emily, a chain-smoking, grunge-rock free spirit.  They join the mile high club and then spend the day together in New York, where Oliver reveals his grand plans to Emily over double shots of Jack Daniels and a pitcher of beer.  In 5 years time, maybe 6, he will have his ducks in a row (or in a LINE), be a successful businesman, wealthy, and have a beautiful wife.  He gives Emily his parents' phone number, tells her to call him in 6 years time so he can prove himself to her, and he can give her his address where she can mail him the $50 he won.

Fast forward a few years later, Emily is dumped by her boyfriend, and finds herself alone on New Year's Eve.  While digging through her little black book trying to round up a date, she stumbles upon Oliver's phone number, calls him up, and thus begins a series of choice encounters the two will share over the next several years.  Everytime they reconnect, they are in different stages of their lives - both looking for something, but the timing is never right, yet a deep bond is formed that keeps them seeking out each other.

The movie is warm, funny, and oddly touching.  One of my all time favorites.  And the soundtrack is great to boot!  The first time I saw this movie, I caught the last 45 minutes or so on HBO and just knew I had to watch it..... so I bought it on Amazon.  I've watched it countless times since, and many friends have borrowed it as well.  Give it a try...... I'm sure you'll feel something.... and if not - hey, you got to see Ashton/Amanda standing in the buff - it's a win/win situation!