Three of Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan novels have been turned into movies. Now we have a fourth one: The Sum Of All Fears. Well, after adding bad acting, predictability, and a dull storyline, the sum is of all my bad movie fears. What is the problem with this movie? Well let's break it up into sections.
First off is the story. Tom Clancy's story isn't bad. The movie adaptation is. It is basically just a boring suspense movie. The story had potential. But it sugar-coated the actual sum of all of our fears. What would have really happened had the Americans . . .? This subject is not touched on and therefore turns this possible anti-nuclear weapon movie into a boring, edge-of-your-seat as you slide off it and leave during the first five minutes movie.
Let's now take a look at Jack Ryan. Harrison Ford was good, and he was getting a little too old for the part, but Ben Affleck is too childish of an actor to portray CIA analyst Jack Ryan. Clancy's gripe about Ford being too old was a little over the top though. Let's face it. Ben Affleck is a terrible actor. Which brings us into the next category...
Acting. The acting is terrible. It is corny, contrived, and most of all, TERRIBLE! Michael Byrne was the only actor besides Morgan Freeman to display some acting skills. Line delivery is terrible. Interestingly though, this movie is about neo-fascist Nazis. Well, Byrne played a Nazi in Indiana Jones And The Last Crusade. 
Predictability. This movie is so terribly predictable. If someone said "no new ideas", well they hit the nail right on the head. Let's look at the beginning . . .. The picture in the cockpit? A tell-tale sign that this pilot will be killed. And of course the extremely predictable ". . ." appears, trying to wrench our hearts out. Can someone tell me why it didn't get incinerated? The . . . is sad, but it is marred by things like contrived emotions. "You can lead a horse to water, but you cannot make it drink." And finally we get to the end. Who would have guessed that the Americans would . . .? I did.
Camerawork. The camera very rarely sits still. Either it is bouncing around as it follows someone or it is bouncing around while it is attached to a jeep. Whatever happened to smooth pans and the ability to follow someone without bouncing the camera around?
Well, that about sums it up. Let's face it. Movie ideas are running low. It seems all we have left are sequels and adaptations of books. Some are good, some are bad.
This one is bad.