What is Hal Hartley's "No Such Thing"?  A wonderfully weird, subdued, funny and surrealistic modern day fable.  The movie as such involves our protagonist/ heroine Beatrice (played almost blankly by Sarah Polley) who is beset by a variety of odd life situations.  She begins as the woman who has seemingly lost her fiancee to his death at the hands of some Shakespearian monster.  Despite being employed by a facilic news magazine she manages to convince her boss to send her out to find out the story behind her fiancee's disappearance.  On her quest her flight is downed over the ocean and all survivors are deemed lost.  But Beatrice by some miracle survives and is hauled out of the water.  She is broken and bruised and may never be able to walk again until surgeons come in and say that a procedure, one that would require her to be awake during the operation and that itself could kill her, could help her walk again with a successful surgery.  Without poring over it much Beatrice agrees and goes through the painful experience; she blacks out during it.  However, she survives and within a year she has made remarkable progress and can walk again.  At this time she has been abandoned by her employer and so, in continuing her journey, continues it through the kindness of strangers (in Iceland no less).  She ends up at the village in this far off land where a handful of people live in vigilance and fear of the monster and they tell her tales and they...get her drunk...and they then essentially offer her as a sacrifice to the beast.  This is roughly the first half of the movie.  The latter half finds Beatrice getting to know the beast (masterfully played by Robert John Burke, probably best known as Bart Bass in the TV series "Gossip Girl"), a mythologic creature who suffers insomnia and wild, damning headaches and who if he is to be believed has been around almost since the beginning of the world.  The beast is beastly: he terrorizes people; he's generally a grouch; he kills people; he's a drunk; he's a loner; and he's contemptuous of humanity.  Oh, and he's immortal.  This immortality is the bane of his existence as he wishes to die.  Though he can't die he has found one man, a scientist who is also a bit of a lunatic, who knows how to kill him.  So Beatrice, having sympathy for this poor soul, suffers his rages and promises him that she will help him find the scientist so that he can be put out of his misery.  Death with dignity and all that.  The two then go on their quest and overcome their obstacles, including the beast being duped and becoming the subject of military experiments that cause him excruciating agony and from which he cannot die, until they abscond with the lunatic scientist who does his thing and sets the beast up to die.  Beatrice kisses him just prior to his execution.  And, as the execution commences, the screen goes dark and so ends this movie that will make many people scream and rip their hair out at this point.

Wonderfully filmed and acted (some of the actors chew their scenery as if they are characters out of a comic strip while others, such as Julie Christie's Dr. Anna, are warm and calm and even understated) this movie is not about spelling anything out for you.  It is a story with a variety of elements thrown in and it lets you determine what it all means.  After watching it (I enjoyed it and found it thought provoking while my wife said that she wished she could get that two hours of her life back) one of the things that puzzled me was why half of the movie was devoted to Beatrice's journey and the oddities thereof.  This has led me to my conclusions about what I think this film is about.  Read on if you want to know!

The name of Beatrice means something to the effect of "voyager through life".  That our heroine certainly was: a voyager or traveler.  She didn't present with a sense of knowing her destination and the story gave us essentially nothing in regards to her origin.  For all intents and purposes she "is".  And she is also our "everyman" and perhaps the epitome of humanity at or near its humanistically proposed apex: a being of conscience, care, and concern who holds no misplaced malice or serviceable judgment against that which is different or even ought not to be, or for that which is artifice.  Beatrice is the angelic version of humanity, gilded with a divinity in and of itself, and not a divinity that is transferred onto it by that which is not or is unreal (such as God).  [Mind you, these are my thoughts about what I think the movie is getting at.  I am not saying that I believe this hogwash.]  The purpose of the first half of the movie is to establish a couple of things: (1) the person of Beatrice, a woman who is open to the world and life's journey and is not interested in controlling it but is also sympathetic to the needs of what amounts to stark difference, to that which can not be (otherwise known as "the beast"), and to not hold it in contempt but to value it enough that she is able to let it pass on under its own authority and need to do so and (2) having Beatrice go through so many odd, coincidental, horrific, and even disillusioning events and yet still come out unchanged in spirit and undaunted in current purpose (seeking to find out what happened to her betrothed--someone whom we never feel she felt especially warm or attached to) may be a metaphor for humankind going through its lifespan and surviving wild, cataclysmic events and yet still coming out of them essentially unchanged in spirit and undaunted in current purpose (for the humanist that would be in humankind's ever-upward-evolution toward our fulfillment in magnanimousness).  Beatrice's journey, fraught with wild peril and helped in unparralleled fashion, was extremely important to show in that it gave a sense of mankind's internal divinity and ability to survive and overcome.  (As I said, this is a modern day fable.)

The character of "the beast", this immortal and mythological creature who has watched us "climb up out of the primordial ooze" and who has terrorized and ultimately grown tired of us throughout the ages, seems to characterize man's artificial attempts to create meaning and purposes for our lives.  This would include the summation of the world's religions and philosophies under its umbrella of erroneous beliefs.  These beliefs, then, are not to be judged or to be rejected.  No.  And Beatrice does not judge the beast (who killed her fiancee and friends) and she does not reject him (she won't run away from him and attempts to soothe and understand him and she listens to his rants).  But what of these beliefs, these affronts to the humanistic idea of the insular divinity of man?  Well, mankind at its apex is magnanimous and so will allow these beliefs to be/ remain if they should choose or to die if they should recognize their inadequacy, their obsolescence, their non-reality.  And what do we find Beatrice, that angelic virtue of humanism, do with the beast who is pained more and more by the ever-increasing noise of "information" and who cannot die, who cannot kill himself?  She helps him find the one (I would underline that one if I could) answer, the one thing that can kill him, the one salvation: science (in the form of the lunatic scientist who spouses metaphysical mumbo jumbo).  Yes!  Science!  That bastion of all things that are real!  That noble endeavor that mankind can turn to and find ultimate answers and ultimate truth in (as long as you include a healthy does of humanism too)!  Science can kill off that which is not real nor ever was (religion and a variety of other philosophies).  And it can do so, under the guidance of humanism, without disdain.  (As I mentioned before it's a mercy killing really.)

And, finally, why does the film end in the fashion it does (without it showing us the actual successful annihilation of the beast or without it showing us what becomes of Beatrice)?  It is because it is for us to decide.  Humanistically speaking, humanism isn't going to force itself on anyone.  We can keep the beast alive (and along with it all of our religious and philosophical beliefs and prejudices) or we can believe that he has died.  We can learn from Beatrice, and show mercy, compassion, and love to even the hideous and non-real or we can choose to believe that she went back to work for her gossip magazine.  It is up to us.  That's one thing this movie gets right.  A great movie for its ingenious presentation of some very thought provoking subject matter in a modern fable that still keeps us entertained along the way.  This is probably one of Joseph Campbell's favorite movies of all time.  I wonder what he thinks it's about?

P.S.  If you read all of this?  Thank you!