This is an either love it or hate it kind of movie that seems to have earned (little) at the box office and instead a small following that; either praise it's nods to Lovecraft or snarl at it for not capturing enough of his true visions. Simply put "In the Mouth of Madness" has some viewers liking it and the way it's filmed; while the rest won't appreciate the underlying messages and questions it conjures up. In the case of this viewer it was definitely liked and frequents many repeated viewings

The plot of the film starts out in odd fashion in a mental institute and is recapping the events of the story with hints of the dark repurcussions (giving delicious hints in a few sparse and direct comments made by characters "Things must really be getting bad out there to send you boys in." as an example) of the main events by the film. That are about to be told (but not verbally narrated) first hand by the main character.

The story itself follows John Trent (played brilliantly by Sam Neil), as a freelance insurance investigator who definitely is excellent at what he does-catching phony claims and bringing frauds to light. Trent is called into to debunk the biggest claim for an insurance firm that frequently hires him. The claim? The cash cow horror writer Sutter Cane (played by Jurgen Prochnow, as a none to subtle nod to Stephen King) has gone missing and his latest novel is in serious demand and needs to be published soon as his fans are (litterally) getting restless. Trent quickly jumps on the mystery of the missing horror writer (hired by a character played, in a neat cameo by; Charleton Heston) motivated directly from life example of strange effects Cane's writing has on some of it's readers. Together with Canes personal editor Linda Styles (played in uninspiring but not unlikeable fashion by Julie Carmen) Trent and Styles head out to the previously thought of fictional town of Hobbs End, the main setting of nearly all of Cane's novel in attempt to find the writer. From there we have a trippy but not too completely hard to follow narration of the events that raise some interesting and sometimes disturbing questions about the nature of human belief and the role of fiction in our lives. This film is perhaps one of Carpenter's better and best films that is decidedly under appreciated.

The film refreshingly doesn't follow the traditional route of gorgeous people in gorgeous and some how sexy slash and hack situations as most horror movies do. The cast is rather plain and brillaintly acted. It is also instead faithfully carried out with the refreshing belief it's viewers are smart enough to understand some of it's moments of symbolism and cut and flashing scenes throughout. As the film goes on the gore remains even throughout while it's scenes get darker and more disturbing as Trent comes to realize that perhaps all of what he's experiencing isn't an elaborate hoax. It is here as the true underlying horror of Cane's novels nod to Lovecraft in their true nature, even without the names Lovecraft gave them.

However it is the cast and the questions this film raises that really mark it as a great film, as the questions are definitely thought enducing even while not being life changing. After all who hasn't asked the question what is reality and what isn't? (Or is that unreality?) This being 2006 a long enough time since the Matrix films were released these questions when viewed now won't raise any real eyebrows with viewers. The cast of the film is suberb, with Neil in his usual undermining brilliance and those people his character Trent encounter leaving a lasting impression. Fitting in perfectly with the odd picture the film paints (check out one of the final scenes in the movie, after the climax-for a much younger Hayden Christansen putting in an apperance!)

As brillaint as "The Thing" (another very under appreciated, especially at the box office-movie) and with a less plodding pace to it. "In the Mouth of Madness" is a brillant film worthy of watching on a stormy night with a few friends and a bowl of popcorn. A definite must see for horror fans (who like their horror with a little thought behind them).