I absolutely love this coming of age film that is a fictitious look at what could happen if the president's daughter went to college.  It's also a very touching love story.  To start I have to say that I had a very hard time finding this film!  I had seen a preview a long time ago, but didn't see it in the theatre.  Finally through multiple searches (um...President's daughter...er...no) it came up.  I rented it on i-tunes and then loved it so much I bought the dvd.  This has got to be one of the most under-rated films in this genre and I wonder why when it's so well done!  I have read that it had many negative reviews, but keeping things in perspective, most movies of this genre are marked down by critics. Most of these well meaning people are males over 40 years of age who can't really understand why the film doesn't appeal to them (lol).  As someone who is a fan of this type of film, I have to say that it's one of the best in my collection and is comparable to movies such as "The Princess Diaries" and "What a Girl Wants".  It also has a great balance between touching moments, both happy and sad, and humour too.  It's one of my favourite love stories and is really enjoyable which is why I gave it 5 stars.  There is very little potentially offensive material which includes the odd mild swear and one quiet use of Christ's name, mention of birth control, and one incident of over-drinking as a minor.  I also enjoyed the effective use of music such as Sinatra's "The Way You Look Tonight" which added to the emotional intensity of many scenes.

Samantha is the president's daughter and goes to Redmond College (thrilled that my Mom went there too).  In a gentle exaggeration of what could happen and what we hope the real president wouldn't do, she goes with a full security team and secret service agents.  This really hampers her ability to have any chance of enjoying the college experience.  Sam meets James who is in one of her classes and the two quickly bond.  Finally Sam is able to be herself, and as they fall in love, she enjoys some freedom and independence.  The romantic chemistry between Sam (Katie Holmes) and James (Marc Blucas) is just outstanding and they are a very stunning couple. This film showcases Katie Holmes' beauty and good acting ability, and in fact the whole film is very well acted.  At first I wasn't wild about how the president is portrayed, mostly because the president is a bit a jerk at times in how he relates to his daughter and seems to put his political aspirations above his daughter's happiness.  At times I imagined how it would be if Colin Firth was playing the role, but I guess he's not qualified with the British accent, haha.

This film also highlights the problems that famous people face with being hounded by the paparazzi.  In the film Samantha mentions that the only time she had privacy was in utero.  This reminded me of the famous quote by Queen Elizabeth's favourite governess Marilyn Crawford, who said "Royals are only private in the womb."  Such a sad commentary about what has happened to many of our celebrities today!

My only disappointment is that it does have a bit of a bitter-sweet ending and that it was sort of a set up for sequel that never happened. I would have loved to see the continuing story!  All I know is that it's one dvd that I will watch over and over again, and I hope someday the producers will realize they do have a very good product and come out with a blu-ray version.