Look...everywhere I've read, this movie has gotten mixed to bad reviews for storyline and ending.  But I think the one thing everyone can agree on is the superb acting of my man Vince and his counterpart in the film, the beautiful (and talented) Jennifer Aniston.  I really never gave her much credit, having only really seen her work in Friends and the Ben Stiller flick 'Along Came Polly'.  But she shines in this film.  First of all, the camera loves her.  I don't think she has one bad frame in the entire movie.  And her acting chops actually surprised me this time around.  The one scene in her room after the concert (I won't give it away) is poignant and seems "real" and well-acted.  I think sometimes you can appreciate how well an actor emotes by seeing the reaction of their co-actors in a scene, and it is visible to me that Vaughn is genuinely moved by her performance and it results in a tender scene that seems unscripted and from a real place.  But I digress cuz I'm not trying to sound too sappy...but I really like the film.  It's subjectline is a little depressing, but anyone who has ever been in a relationship only to realize it's demise, you will find a way to relate to the characters in the film.  Vince Vaughn, as usual, is superb.  His comedy, in my opinion, is all his own and no one can touch him when he is on his game.  To me, I feel like alot of his funniest lines are his ad-libs, because I don't think anyone else could write such funny quips that he delivers so effortlessly and in such an unrehearsed tone.  The guy rocks!  He never bores me on-screen, and I love when he shows his more sensitive side onscreen...which is usually quite in contrast to his more jovial and kid-like persona that he indulges in 95% of the time.  As his work in other films, he shows he is versatile and can turn on and off his comedic charm whenever he wants in deference to some frailty, vulnerability and real adult emotion.  A pleasure to watch.  The supporting cast is SUPERB and I highly recommend this film to all.  Just keep in mind that although it can be dubbed as a comedy/drama, the line is blurred throughout and the ending doesn't exactly leave you jumping for joy.  But that's not what all movies should be about anyways.  Just my opinion...