I frankly don't understand the bad reviews that the "Times" and others have given this riveting remake of the Mary Shelley classic. This is the first movie rendition of the story that comes anywhere close to the Shelley novel. True to form, the story begins and ends at the polar ice cap...as in the novel. The well-intentioned, albeit obssessed, Dr. F. is engaged to the beautiful Elizabeth. I won't give away the plot by expousing on their relationship, but where past grade-B efforts have had no female counterpart to Dr. F., this film version does; indeed, she is a prime motivator, residing at the very heart of what drives much of the story-line. There is some artistic license taken here of course, as with any great work of art. But actor/producer Kenneth Branagh (who plays the good doctor) has certainly earned the latitude. The creature, played by the forever-versatile Robert DeNiro, is such a convincing characterization that one doesn't even realize it's the "You Talkin' To Me" actor until well into the story (when that unmistakable voice comes through). For the literary-minded, this treatment comes close to the Prometheus Rising theme that Mary Shelley had intended, but which has been all but ignored in other film efforts. The old story of Man attempting to scale to the heights of God -- like the Icarus myth or even the Biblical Tower of Babel story -- is given due regard by producer Branagh. Actor Tom Hulce ("Amadeus") who befriends the young Dr. F. in medical school brings a certain innocense and a common-man's presence to the story that serve as an effective counterpoint to the madness of his friend and would-be God-man. (Indeed, Hulce's very inclusion in this fine cast transports one back to the time of Mozart, solidly grounding the story in a 18th-century setting.) Overall, a fine cast, coupled with a film treatment that's about as close to the classic novel as any celluloid production has yet come, make this effort the best of the genre. You won't be disappointed...as long as you don't write for the New York Times!