I have held my tongue (keyboard?) for a long time, but this is a comment for all of you who seem to think that all the movies with actual human characters rather than cardboard cutouts are "sooo slooow" and "sooo looong" and boring. GET an ATTENTION SPAN! I can't imagine anyone could find this film dull or slow. Yes, it is "deliberately" paced, for it is a story about change, and change does not happen quickly. Perhaps those who found it boring are so jaded by action movies and alienated from any real human feeling that they can't relate to the material. If any of you must give a film a negative review, please try to point out what was wrong with the theme, concept or execution (no pun intended). Otherwise just watch a couple hours of rock videos and spare the rest of us who like to see films with scenes longer than five or six frames each.

I find this to be an excellent film, very powerful. I have a high tollerance of powerful material (The Wild Bunch is my favorite film), but it was tough for me to get through the first 3/4 hour. In the end it all resolves (or doesn't) in a grace note so simple and beautiful that I was stunned.

lastly, I stated earlier that this was a film about change, but the change in the film is a small adjustment, not fundamental. Hank is not a racist character who falls in love with a Black Woman. It is clear from the first frame that he is not really a racist, or if he is, a halfhearted one. He has a stubborn streak of human decency that is there all along. He turns to Berry's character because he has a need for human contact that is as raw as hers, and she is there in front of him. What begins as animal sexual release becomes something else. Note his frightened, frenzied desparation when she peels out and drives away, it is only after he has come to care for her that he realises how dead he was inside. Hank doesn't really change. He merely begins to shed the uglier aspects of himself, because they pale in comparison to his need. Thornton is great as usual, and though I wish Naomi Watts had at least been nominated, Berry richly deserved her award.