I decided to read the reviews of this film on Amazon before I purchased it.  I was very surprised at how many reviews were three stars and below, some with quite negative comments.  It made me seriously consider whether to purchase the DVD or not.  Then I began to realize that many of the negative comments I was reading were not enough to make me not want to see the film.

I purchased it and am glad I did because I thoroughly enjoyed this film.  Why should we expect each film made in this manner by this group of people to be exactly like all the others?  Each and every one of the Christopher Guest improv method films has been a complete stand alone.  The subject matter has all been loosely related to showmanship, but each has been approached from a different angle.  I felt that this movie dealt with a much deeper subject than the others and therefore had many more serious aspects but that just made it different, not bad.  Those characters each reacted to their possible huge career change in very different ways.  Even if the movie was not hilariously funny I still found it fascinating to watch each character evolve into a completely different person just because of all the hype surrounding an Oscar nomination.

I wanted to own this film and I'm glad I went ahead and bought it.  Others may want to rent it first before investing in their own copy.  Either way, please consider watching this film.  I was absolutely fascinated when I watched it for the second time while listening to Guest and Levy describe each scene and the actors involved.  This feature alone gives so very much insight into the inner working of the film.  I do volunteer work at a very small community theatre and I can really imagine this scenario playing out within my own tiny sphere of the arts world.  An actors ego is always precariously balanced on a razors edge.  They want, they crave, recognition for their craft.  This film probably had many, many times when the actors were showing us the way they had seen someone in their own art world react.  Maybe not full of belly laughs but certainly realistic.  Why not five stars?  Well, I do work in community theatre and absolutely nothing can ever top Waiting For Guffman!

6-5-07  Since writing this review both my daughters have watched this movie and neither cared for it much.  Both are Christopher Guest fans but say this one just didn't do anything for them.  One even said it seemed that the "formula" has gone on one movie too long.  Just wanted to update my review in case it might change someone's mind.  I still love it.