"Capote" the film is not about the life of Truman Capote, but its about a period of his life when he saw an article in the newspaper about the murders of four family members in Holcomb, Kansas, and decided to write about it.

I think this film is very educational for those who don't know anything about Truman Capote or the Kansas murders in 1959, and for those interested in reading further about Capote or the Kansas case may do so.  I would also recommend watching the original "In Cold Blood" film with Robert Blake playing Perry Smith, rather than the latest remake.

I had read for years how writing and experiencing "In Cold Blood" took a big toll on Capote, and this film helps bring that home.  He wanted to help Perry Smith, but his helping prolonged the appeals process and being able to finish his book.  One can begin to see and feel the mixed feelings Truman Capote has towards the killers, especially Perry Smith.  He starts out wanting to help them, but becomes frustrated when his help has kept the appeals process dragging on for years.  He wants to finish his book but cannot until the killers are executed.  And he feels guilty for wanting them dead.  He didn't want them dead, but he did.  He visits with Perry Smith's sister who tells Capote not to be fooled by Perry and his supposed sensitivity and sweetness.  She said Perry would rather kill someone than say hello.

Capote tells Harper Lee (Catherine Keener) that he felt like he and Perry grew up in the same house, only that Perry got up and went out the back door, and he (Capote) got up and went out the front door.  They both had alcoholic mothers and abusive or neglectful fathers.

Towards the end when Perry telegrams Capote asking for help to find a new lawyer, Capote writes back that he searched for one (he really didn't) but couldn't find one.  Capote takes to his bed and won't take phone calls when he hears the executions are finally going through - no more appeals.  He goes to Kansas and visits with the killers one last time and starts to cry when he walks in the room.  Perry asks him to be at the hanging and he agrees, even though he probably would have rather been in bed with the covers pulled over his head.

The extra interviews with Philip Seymour Hoffman, Chris Cooper, Catherine Keener et al really add to the DVD.  There is also a small clip of an interview with the real Truman Capote.

Recommend.