I confess: I haven't read the book. In fact, I'm ashamed to admit I'd never even heard of it. But I have ordered a copy, and can't wait for it to arrive, though I understand that it's very different from the movie.

I probably wouldn't have heard of the movie either, except that a friend of mine, Justin Welborn, plays one of the main characters (the Pope). So, of course, I had to support him by watching it.

I had read a little bit about the movie before I saw it, but when I watched it, I truly had no expectations ~ yet somehow I was pleasantly surprised.  It's well written, well shot, well thought-out. Also, it's not a "Christian" movie in the traditional sense ~ it's not preachy, not a "sales tool", and the characters aren't perfect. They're human, and they're flawed. Which makes them more real. There's drinking, drugs, cursing, anger, pregnancy outside of marriage ~ all things that happen in the real world ~ and the world of the church (even if 'the church' chooses to ignore or deny it).

The movie opens as Donald Miller is about to leave home to go to college. A Baptist college. You see, Don is a dyed-in-the-wool Southern Baptist. He's worked in a factory that makes wine cups for communion. He's been the assistant youth pastor. And he's been a good son to his single mother. He puts up with his father, who is an atheist, and who apparently did not help support Don growing up, but now offers him tuition at Reed College in the Pacific Northwest. Don of course refuses, but then finds out his mother is having an affair with the youth pastor. The married youth pastor.

Feeling betrayed, Don goes to Reed, where he encounters all kinds of people ~ and begins to question his own spirituality. In fact, he whole-heartedly rejects the church and its principles, partly to fit in, and partly because of his feelings of betrayal.

The first scenes of the movie, when Don is at church, are painfully accurate. I wasn't sure I'd be able to watch the movie because of my own experiences as a child in a Southern Baptist church. It made me cringe.

But I kept watching, and found the rest of the movie to be a thoughtful, intelligent look at faith and spirituality, and trying to belong. It also has moments of great humor - when Don participates in "civil disobedience" for school credit, and he's dressed in an astronaut suit while the rest of the group are dressed as robots.

The characters engaged me ~ from do-gooder Penny to lesbian Lauryn, from the Russian (who I wish we'd seen more of!) to the Pope, who's actually an atheist (played by Justin).

I wasn't terribly thrilled with the animation, and like other reviewers noted, the opening scenes could have been shorter, but the rest of the movie engaged me. It made me think. It made me ponder. It made me look at my own faith.

If you are open-minded, then this movie is definitely for you. As another reviewer said, "This is not a film made by Christians for Christians. No, this is a film made by Christians that was made for everyone." Amen.

4.5 stars.