Looking at 'The Big Trail' for the first time, in it's original 70mm 'Grandeur' WideScreen presentation on this DVD, it's so crisp and clear, and mammoth in scope, it's hard to believe this is one of the early talkies from 1930! Everything about this movie is big, when you hear on the extras, of what had to be carted all over 7 states for the location shooting, and the fact they virtually had to make 5 films at once, it's incredible it ever got made at all. Fate stepped in, as it sometimes does, in the form of the Great Depression, cinemas shelved plans to convert to bigger screens and projectors, and when 'The Big Trail' was released, was mainly only seen in the regular 35mm version, diminishing much of the scope and grandeur that makes it so wonderful! Because of this, it was considered a flop, and never got the accolades it deserved! Now, 80 years later, we can re assess and enjoy this great film, the way it should have been all along! In his first starring role, 23 year old John Wayne is more than adequate, relaxed and commanding from the word go, and his beautiful 19 year old leading lady, Marguerite Churchill, is one of his best, a fine and fiesty little actress, she should have become a much bigger star! Watching them in this film, it's hard to reconcile the fact they're both long gone, and would have been over 100 years old now? They'll forever be young and beautiful, on 'The Big Trail'! In his only talking film, Tyrone Power Snr. is a far cry from the handsome matinee idol he apparently was on stage, and his son became, as the chief 'baddy' he's made up to look quite gruesome, and hams it up accordingly! Wayne's best friend, Ward Bond can be seen in a few scenes, hiding behind a bushy beard, ironic to think he started out on a wagon train, and finished up on one 30 years later! If the great depression hadn't intervened, this film may have revolutionised the way we saw movies in the 1930's, instead of having to wait another 23 years for CinemaScope?
Anyone who's a John Wayne fan, or, is interested in Hollywood history, must own this DVD!