In 1964 when "Goldfinger" was a hit with my classmates, I was 11 years old.  That's very young for all the boys in Sacred Heart School to be reading Ian Fleming.  I read all the Honey West novels and secretly preferred "The Girl from U.N.C.L.E." to the "Man from U.N.C.L.E." when the television series came out.  But that goes to show the whole James Bond idea was basically juvenile as the James Bond doll that was manufactured was one of the first action figures.  1966's "Secret Agent, Super Dragon" starred Ray Danton in a Euro-spy imitation of Bond that pales to the brilliant Richard Harrison starring "Master Stroke" from 1967.  Harrison also made "Secret Agent Fireball" and "Ring Around the World" which were excellent.  He was also better than "Kommissar X" was to be played by Tony Kendall in a series that also rivaled Bond made by a German director if I am not mistaken.  "Secret Agent, Super Dragon" out Bonded Bond with many gadgets and had its fair share of beautiful willing women and strong villains who wanted world domination by psychotropic drugs.  While a complaint of "Master Stroke" was that it was talky in comparison to "Secret Agent, Super Dragon," at least it was more mature.  No offense, I had been a weird kid.  And the "beautiful color" as described in the blurb on amazon, was faded in the print used by Sinister Cinema and again there were splices and gaps where even important clues to the plot were obliterated or unheard.  "Master Stroke" was faded, but in better shape overall, but for some reason is no longer available as a DVD-R from amazon at regular prices, but, at last checking, it was available on Sinister Cinema's website slightly more expensive than amazon had made their product available, but nowhere near as expensive as it is selling on amazon as a "used" item.  Marisa Mell is cast in "Secret Agent, Super Dragon" as is the fabulous Euro-femme, Margaret Lee, among others.  The credits list it as "a film by Roberto Amoroso" but lists the director as "Calvin J. Padgett" perhaps another Americanized Italian name that, at the time, was fashionable as their work was sorely in competition from the States.  A lot of the information about these films from Sinister Cinema is sketchy, and I, for one, can certainly use a Euro-spy Guide.  Ray Danton lacks the sex appeal of Sean Connery or Richard Harrison, and does not have Harrison's also superior humor.  Danton's humor comes with the gadgets and girls and not by a flair for interpreting intelligent writing.  According to one source I did read, Richard Harrison, also a gladiator and a spaghetti western frequenter, only made three Euro-spy films.  That's really a loss.  The three that I saw were keepers.