Well this is the first review that I have ever written, so my grammar and punctuation are really lacking, my college days are far behind me. I have been watching movies for over 50 years(like a few other reviewers), and I felt I had to say something about this movie. How I missed this movie over the years, I do not know, but it was one of the best movies I have ever seen.I had caught the movie (Leon-The Professional) on television, and wondered who that little girl was that played such a fantastic part in what I thought was to be just a action flick. I did some research on the net and found out who she was, and ran across her name cast in Beautiful Girls, so I purchased the DVD just to see what part she played in it. Man how lucky I was to find such a goldmine! Definitely a collectible to be watched many times. I was able to relate to all of the characters in the movie one way or the other, and it brought back so many memories of my twenties life. Natalie Portman (Marty) and Timothy Hutton (Willie), knocked my socks off. I have had a couple of encounters of the same kind in my lifetime,and it is like two people have the same heart and soul, but the age and timing were always wrong. It left me wondering sometimes if I had been born at the wrong time in life. The way their scenes were portrayed was amazing. At first the scenes seemed too fast, and it was hard to understand every word. I had a hard time with the New England accent, being a southern boy, so I put on the closed caption, and played it in slow motion. Marty kinda started it off with her lines, "I'm 13, but I have an old soul",and "my name is the bane of my existence".She told Willie he was a "you're a dude in flux".Her intellect,personality, and perception were way beyond her age,plus she was a (beautiful girl). The scene with Marty and Willie at the ice pond was the best for me,when Marty wanted Willie to be her boyfriend, with lines like "but if your feelings for me are true, you will wait","Yep,wait 5 years for me I'll be 18",and "we can walk through this world together". Awesome! Then Willies denial with the Winnie the Pooh, and Christopher Robinson, comparison was great. Their gestures and eye contact were realistic, heart moving, and sad, in all their scenes. I do not know if Willie really denied Marty completely or not. At the end of the movie he drove off with his girlfriend, still staring at Marty in his rear view mirror. Plus Andera(Uma Thurman), threw him a curve in the ice fishing hut. Surely wish there had been some kind of sequel, this is a movie that you did not want to end.
All of the characters played excellent parts, and would recommend for all above (R) rating age. A tremendous movie about real people, in the real world. Kudos! to all. I am sorry I missed the rest of Natalie's growing up, she has already graduated from Harvard. Well Done Nat! Okay, enough said.....Enjoy this Movie!