1994 was an interesting year for the movies: Disney's animated "The Lion King" grossed over ¾ of a billion dollars; "Forrest Gump" became another home run for both Robert Zemeckis and Tom Hanks; "The Shawshank Redemption", though very slow at the box office, has become one of the most praised films of all time; but if one film from that year will go down in greatness, it will undoubtedly be Quentin Tarantino's second feature: "Pulp Fiction", a film filled with so many bright ideas and a lot of colorful dialogue.
 Unlike most movies, "Pulp Fiction" doesn't have a straightforward narrative structure. Its story jumps from one time period to another but it works so well because Tarantino writes his characters and his story with care and consideration. The word that comes to mind when I think of this movie is quality. There is a lot of action in the film, but it is justified because we come to understand what's going on and who we're supposed to care for.
 The dialogue is also a lot of fun to listen to. My personal favorite piece is the ending diner scene where Vincent Vega (John Travolta) and Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson) are having breakfast and Jules is explaining why he doesn't eat bacon (or any type of pork for that matter). It feels so awkward and yet so perfect because you're listening to real people talk about everyday subjects. Even the mob scenes seem perfect because the actors feel real.
 "Pulp Fiction" is not so much about a mob story as it is about redemption. The key player of the third story, Jules, spends most of his adult life performing hit-man jobs for a wealthy mob leader; when a miracle saves him and his crime partner, Vincent, from death, he takes it as a sign from God to retire from the mob life and walk the Earth like Cain. Atoning for his sins in the very last scene of the film, he recites Ezekiel 25:17 not as he most commonly does (when he's about to murder) but he used the speech as a way of figuring out where he stands in life. He claims himself to be the righteous man; but he's trying so hard to be the shepherd. Samuel L. Jackson couldn't have delivered those lines any better than the way that we are shown.
 But what makes "Pulp Fiction" memorable are its iconic moments. For instance, when Vincent takes out his boss's wife and he is in the bathroom contemplating the possibilities of betrayal and loyalty, she finds his stash of heroin, and (mistaking it for cocaine) overdoses. That leads Vincent in a panic, which leads him to crash his car into his dealer's house and give his client a shot of adrenaline. As creepy as this scene and act is, it is a stroke of brilliance by Tarantino.
 Another very iconic scene is the final confrontation between Marsellus Wallace and Butch. They are both tied up and as Marsellus is led away to be tortured and raped, Butch takes the advantage to escape and never his former client again. But feeling remorse and worried, Butch steps up to the plate to save him. I really liked how he went through the choices of weapons on his side: a baseball bat, a hammer, and a chain saw were all cast away; but then Butch laid his eyes on a katana. It's iconic and memorable in every sense of those two words.
 The most peculiar aspect of the movie by far is the briefcase. The first time we see it is when Jules and Vincent go to retrieve it for Marsellus. The combination lock reads "666". No doubt Marsellus had that done to make himself seem tougher than everybody else by putting the number of the beast on a lock. But as the briefcase is opened, all we see is a shining orange glow. The only lead we get in this scene is the fact that Vincent is happy with what he sees. The only other time in the film that the briefcase is prominently used is the final scene, where one of the two robbers threatens Jules with certain death if the case wasn't opened. Again, all we see is a shining glow. But obviously there is something spectacular in it, as the robber is amazed by what he sees.
 Every other secret in "Pulp Fiction" seems like a tiny footnote next to the mystery of the briefcase. What is actually inside it? Many people speculate diamonds, but they could be found anywhere. Others consider the possibility of drugs (perhaps a special stash of heroin), but it's no real mystery as to where you can find them. One possibility that I have thought about is that of the last misfortune inside Pandora's Box. According to Greek mythology, the last evil of the world did not escape the Box and that evil was the knowledge of what would happen. It's a possibility, but not a certainty.
 Lastly, I see "Pulp Fiction" as a film of innovation. Like Stanley Kubrick's "A Clockwork Orange", Tarantino's second feature takes chances. It shows violence and hatred like it should be shown. If Tarantino ever reaches this type of brilliance in any of his other films, I will be forever grateful.