This is a review for the Criterion Blu-Ray version...

BD buffs will already attest to a 'no contest' that BD picture and sound quality surpass that of any DVD.  Take that approach and apply it to a classic film... once with dust, scratches and a poor audio track.  A transfer that was once just available in 4:3 pan & scan.  The Criterion edition does not disappoint!  I had owned the VHS version of the film for many years, and comparing the two is almost comical.  Remember that time when you first compared the same film on DVD and BD and suddenly noticed a million improvements?  That's how I feel about this transfer.

Of course, you have to appreciate the film for what it is, the director, and when it was made.  You're not going to see some amazing James Cameron-esque special effects and lighting here.  Back then there was only so much independent filmmakers could work with, quality of film stocks included.  That being said, the grain even still seems to be almost eliminated.  Not as if you're watching a film that was shot in HD (you can still pick up on the film grain and the slight 'jumpyness' of the film gate - which adds a lot of charm) but an immaculate version of how the film might have looked with its original intent.

Criterion is doing a great job with these BDs, having enough common sense to wait for the HDDVD/Blu-Ray war to end in order to focus in on having reputable and pleasing transfers.  Criterion has shown some signs of slipping in the past.  As they grow their criteria for films seems to thin a little, expanding their catalogue to include films like Benjamin Button and Michael Bay movies... all politics aside, they still deliver wonderful transfers and now that they've gotten cracking on the BDs I am sure they will continue to improve and hopefully still maintain the reputation they once established for themselves delivering classic and contemporary movies for everyone out there.

Also, you'll be glad to know that Criterion was smart enough to eliminate those ugly blue cases that most BDs are packed in.  They have more specially made cases that are clear and just a couple millimeters deeper (the spine, presumably to make more room for the booklets).  Much more attractive on your DVD case than a row of neon-blue cases.