I remember when this came out in the theatres in 1960.  My girlfriends and I went about 50 times to see it.  We all fell in love with each of the Seven.  This was before anyone knew who Steve McQueen, Charles Bronson, James Coburn, Robert Vaughn, and Horst Bucholz were!  We did know who Yul Brynner was, we all fell in love with him years before in King and I, and the Ten Commandments! We were all in doubt then about how he would fit into a Western with no hair!  But he did, and how!  As the leader of these Seven, he still holds up as one of the  "sexiest men" of all time!  This movie just never stops!  It is so well written and well acted, and the music!  Elmer Bernstein's beautiful and exciting score just outshines them all! This new edition is longer than the original, but as far as I am concerned, I hoped it would just keep going on! The ending is the best part, sad but left with a really good feeling.... what a great human story!  The "good guys" are the poor Mexican farmers in their little village being bullied and controlled by the "bad guys", a small army of Mexican Desperados.  The Farmers are desperately needing help to rid themselves of these Banditos who steal all their food at the end of the farmers yearly harvest, leaving very little for the villagers to eat.  They decide that this is the last "straw" and the best way to get rid of their enemy is to hire gunslingers.  With very little cash to offer, the cash they do offer is all that they have.  They  hire Well-known Gunslinger, Chris (Yul Brynner), who sympathizes with the farmers, and also admires their determination, Chris, having a way with words as well as guns, decides to help them by rounding up as many extra gunslingers that he can.  With little to offer but a chance to redeem themselves by helping out these poor but determined farmers.  So it comes down to the "bad guys" against the "badder gunslingers".  Its a great showdown of "the good, the bad, and the ugly".  You must see this film at least once in your life.....I will guarantee you will love every minute of The Magnificent Seven!  A real Western Classic, they just don't make 'em like this anymore!