The movie was fun and funny, and the potty-humor thing was a real deal and completely minor in terms of time and significance, and adults who take themselves so seriously and consider themselves so "cosmopolitan" might need to avoid the movie, or most movies in general.

Most of all, one of the things that made me love the movie is that it was NOT chock-full of the cheesy double-entendres and one-iners that made the show a success.  My only fear with the movie was "gee, how are they going to take cheesy puns and turn it into a two-hour movie worth watching?"  Luckily, they didn't try to do that.  They made it based on how real life happens and still interjected plenty of humor and spirit of each character, making them, in my opinion, better and with greater depth than ever before.  And the acting was SUPERB.  They have all honed their craft in the off-time.

The movie had actual plots instead of 30-minute slapstick-type scenarios, keeping it true to the last seasons of SATC, but still had lots of smaller less serious mishaps that keep it fun (and also just like real life).

Further, the show did an amazing job giving us the same style that kept up drooling for seasons over beautiful fashion and city living, but this time, the characters (even Carrie) didn't take the style so completely seriously as the end-all-be-all, which made the characters and their lives much more relatable for those of us who don't live on Park Avenue.

Lose yourself.  Laugh hard.  Cry a little.  Laugh some more.  A watch it with a close gal-pal.  Well worth it.

The reason I left off one star is because though I loved that the movie made me think about my own life, friendships and relationship, it wasn't one of the few earth-shaking, life-making movies that reshapes what life is and how I view it, which makes me give that last star.

If I were basing the stars solely on how much I enjoyed the movie and the entertainment factor and acting (the acting was superior to any SATC episode!), I would give it five stars.