Unfortunately, as time has marched on, many a movie has been lost to the ages.  "My Man Godfrey" seems to be one of them that is teetering on the brink of obscurity.  If it were not for "William Powell Days" on AMC or TCM, classics like this would be lost.  It is a shame.  This movie is a genuine funny comedy, not relying on potty humor, or slapstick, but instead on wit, timing, perfect delivery on William Powell's part, and the occasional veiled sexual innuendo.  Don't judge this timeless classic by it's 1950's remake, because much of the flare and humor of this movie...  Well, let's just say it wasn't there.  In fact, "My Man Godfrey" was one of several movies which gave William Powell the honor of being one of the top 5 box office draws for 1936, just before he "retired" briefly from Hollywood after the death of his beloved fianc&eacute;, Jean Harlowe.

This movie features yet another flawless performance by Hollywood class-act, William Powell, of "Thin Man" fame, who's career spanned from the 1920's to the 1950's, and his then ex-wife, Carole Lombard.  William Powell plays the hapless Godfrey Smith, resident of the city dump, who is discovered by Irene Bullock (Lombard) during a scavenger hunt where she needs only to find a "forgotten man" to win the grand prize.  Godfrey agrees to help Irene because he not only desires to see a scavenger hunt for himself, but to irritate Irene's sister, Cornelia (Gail Patrick).  After Godfrey essentially tells off the people wasting their time and money on such a silly game, Irene becomes enamored of him and hires him on as their new butler and her prot&eacute;g&eacute;, like her mother Angelica Bullock (the priceless Alice Brady, who undoubtedly you've seen in other movies of the time) and her prot&eacute;g&eacute; Carlos.  Godfrey is the lone voice of sanity in a home full of crazy women, the untalented Carlos, a sassy maid named Molly (Jean Dixon) and the perpetually disgruntled father, Alexander Bullock (Eugene Pallette).  Throughout the movie, Irene constantly battles to win the affections of Godfrey, while Cornelia is out for revenge after Godfrey insulted her by pushing her into an ash pile, and Mrs. Bullock tries unsuccessfully to mold Carlos into a world famous musician, with poor Mr. Bullock just trying to keep his sanity.

Godfrey: These flowers just came for you, miss. Where shall I put them?

Irene: What difference does it make where one puts flowers when one's heart is breaking?

Godfrey: Yes, miss. Shall I put them on the piano?

This movie is a must buy, or at least a must see, for those who enjoy genuine comedies.  The DVD quality of the movies is as good as one would expect with a movie from the 1930's, but the sound quality is above average, I'd say, since there are numerous old movies on DVD that you can't hear a darn thing going on behind the static and quiet dialogue.  On the DVD I have, there are no noteworthy special features, but again, all of this is to be expected since the DVD is rarely over $10 (unless it's a special edition).