I have to say this is pretty much the worst movie ever made (that is, if anyone can even know that).

Like many modern stories, it presents us not with some kind of moral quagmire to work through, but rather a power struggle in good Marxist tradition between the pampered aristocratic mages and the economically-oppressed, yet innocent common folk (after all, if there is no objective morality, everything reduces to power).

Instead of a hero character - a noble person with a flaw - we get the typical modern anti-hero who is by trade a robber who becomes plagued by accidental noble deeds for no reason.  At his side is the token black guy (who is harmless of course, a la "Webster") serving as comic relief and who's jokes are actually the only redeeming part of the movie.  They're artificially teamed up with the token love-interest in the form of a mage librarian girl or something for no reason.  The dynamic between the three is taken right out of an episode of Blossom where giggly teenagers are flirt-fighting, and the girl ends up taking her place as window dressing.

They're chased (again, the 'chase' factor is a necessity in the modern power-struggle story; WHY they're chased is merely incidental) by a guy with - I am not making this up - purple lipstick on.  Honestly though, I'd be freaked out if some magical sword-wielding metrosexual was slowly walking after me.  And I do mean SLOW.  For some reason our culture thinks there's some correlation between a guy's 'coolness' and the speed he moves.  Well, imagine how goofy it looks when he's leaving in the middle of a battle scene or 'chasing' someone who's running when he's only moving about 100yards/hour.  I won't even go into the snakes? put into his head it was so bizarre.

On the other side we have a 12-year old Empress (resembling an older version of the Empress from Neverending Story with putty on her face) who really `feels from the depths of her being' that all should be equal for no reason.  I can hear Monty Python now: "Listen, strange putty-faced children playing with dragons and telling us about their feelings is no basis for a system of government".  Go to your room little girl.  Yes, despite what anti-intellectual Hollywood thinks, we actually need ADULTS with principled, thought-out REASONS in order to successfully run nations.

At least we got a lovely New Age pantheistic ending where everyone became one with the Force for no reason.  Almost as lovely as when it was in "Powder".  Save your time and go watch LOTR again.  This movie will soil you.