After reading all of these negative reviews I have to say this movie suprised me how good it actually was.  I disagree with one of the reviewers below saying there needed to be comic relief to ease the tension of this movie's theme.  I hate comic relief when it is only there to relieve tension, that is what upset me most about the LOTR films.  We can handle serious themes and situations without a silly cheap laugh thrown in so we won't feel so depressed.  I loved this movie because it was serious, and man does this director's cut have some good battles.  The look of the movie was very cold, dark and brutle.  Finally a movie that does not throw in forced comedy skits and sunny day happy moments just to make you feel good, let's stick to realism folks.  The time in which this movie was dipicted were hard unhappy times, thanks Mr. Fuqua for keeping it real. Although the ending ended up being one of those near-cheesy moments of happily ever after.  I prefer more the alternate ending that you can see in the extras.

  I like to see happy films and comedy's as much as the next person, I just don't like it forced at the expense of the audience's intelligence.  This movie was very well done and very well executed, most of all highly underrated.  I don't care if this movie doesn't dipict Arthur's tale in the way that most of us expected or read. This is a movie, entertainment, it is not a history lesson.  The producers of this movie tell you it is based on a true story, we and they know it is not. There was a true King Arthur but most if not all records of his existance are embellished into the land of myth.  I tell you this even though this movie is fiction it would definatly be closer to fact than the actual Arthur tale of magic and wizards. Fact as being the actual situations that revolved around a future king at that time.  I wen't into this wanting to be entertained with a serious movie based in the older days. I received that and much more.  If you go into this movie in the right state of mind you will not be dissapointed.  And the battle at Baden Hill is worth the purchase alone. Get the director's cut it is the version to own.  And if you want to see one of Arthur's knights who is bad to the bone smooth and cool watch out for Tristan.