I generally try to focus on the movie itself without reference to the book it was based upon, but I had a hard time with this one. The Goblet of Fire was possibly my favorite book in the series, and I looked forward to this movie a lot. In itself the movie was enjoyable, but I left the theater angry. The writers and directors clearly had to condense the story line and that's totally understandable. What totally ticked me off was that they cut out important scenes from the book in order to put a lot of "Hollywood" scenes in their place. The dancing lesson didn't exist in the book, but it was funny. And it took up valuable time in an already long movie. The dragon scene could have been half as long, but I guess that is more exciting than the real drama of the story. The scene which absolutely angered me was a non-scene. They took the time at the beginning of the movie to show Moody's foe glass, which shows when his enemies are drawing near. It was a key element of foreshadowing in the book, and should have been in the movie, but they forgot to add the follow-up at the end of the movie! Why foreshadow something if you're not going to refer to it again later on?? Again, a waste of valuable time.

I could look over the total lack of certain characters from the book because it didn't really bother me. But it leaves out key information. I happened to go with somebody who had never read the book, and he couldn't begin to understand some of the story lines. We are left hanging at the end of the movie. They don't bother to explain how Barty Crouch escaped from Azkaban and assumed Moody's identity, they completely left out that the Ministry "finished off" Crouch before they could find out the truth of Voldemort's return, and they didn't bother to point out that the Minister refused to believe that Voldemort did indeed return. Maybe not such a big deal for a movie, but for a movie with a definite sequel, that's a key teaser right there!! I thought putting a teaser at the end of the first movie is a good prompter to see the following one.

In all, I am afraid I couldn't get past the errors of omission. It was a disappointment for me as a fan of the series, but it was also a disappointment as a general movie-goer who is left hanging at the end with a lot of unanswered questions.