Actual movie:

Death Proof seems hit or miss for some people. Most of the people who tell me that they don't like it complain that there's too much dialogue, but there are three reasons for this: 1. It makes the crash scene that much better of a payoff. 2. Tarantino meant this to be like a true grindhouse movie, and in those types of movies there was a lot of useless dialogue because they didn't have a big budget so much of the movie was dialogue to fill up running time to make it a feature length film. In this aspect, I felt he stayed very true to form but a lot of people wouldn't get this. 3. Even if there is a lot of dialogue, it's all really interesting dialogue. Kind of like the book Catcher in the Rye. It isn't really about anything but it's still a good read because the way it's written is so interesting.

Picture Quality:

Now when you hear about something like Death Proof on blu-ray, you might immediately think it's pointless because the whole point of the movie was to look "bad". The film was purposely meant to look like it was played too many times. Scratches everywhere, film spliced all over the place. I will still say the first half of the film benefits really well from the high def treatment. It looks kind of soft but the colors recieve a great boost. But where the movie truly shines is the second half with the second group of girls. I don't know if most people who have seen Death Proof bothered to notice how the film style changes drastically in the second half because they were so into the movie at the time, but it no longer has the "grindhouse" look after the movie switches to Lebanon, Tennessee. I will just say the second half of the movie on blu-ray makes the movie worth the purchase. It's gorgeous. Colors are splendid, and the images are razor sharp. I think the high point for me was a close up of Rosario Dawson in the car where she finally starts to smile while Zoey is tied to the hood of the car that just hits with a "BLEEM!" I can't describe it. It was just a  "BLEEM!" that resonated. The second half of this movie is like running naked through the rain. It's like drinking an ice cold beer while having a hot shower after a long, sh***y day at work. It's movies like this on blu-ray that will give you the hugest high def d*** alive and proudly boast about it.