Aqua Teen Hunger Force ('ATHF') is one of the funniest things I've ever seen.  Starring late on night on the Cartoon Network's 'Adult Swim', ATHF centers around a narcissistic milkshake, Master Shake, a genius batch of frenchfries with super powers, Frylock, and a sizzling ball of hamburger meat, Meatwad.  The three form a detective agency/squad (The Aqua Teen Hunger Force, natch) and noisily "solve" mysterious events, much to the continued annoyance of their pot-bellied and 'self-employed' neighbor Carl.  Sound bizarre?  You have no idea.  ATHF is some sort of sick, demented combination of Super Friends, South Park, and all those unintentionally creepy cartoons from the early 80s like The Snorks.  Read:  it rocks.
This series is one of the most consistently entertaining, funny, and quotable I've ever seen.  Each episode starts with some sort of bizarre creation or device either escaping from or otherwise being generated at the lab of Dr. Wierd in his castle on the New Jersey shore.  Whatever that creation is, it inevitably ends up involving our heroes in very short order.  The best episodes involve the Mooninites, a pair of pixelated freaks straight out of Moon Patrol or some other 1981 Atari game with mouths like children on South Park.  The Mooninites descend from, naturally, the Moon, and proceed to wreak havoc with their kleptomania and ability to fire extremely slow, square video game bullets at people ("The bullet is enormous!  Jumping..is useless.")
A hilarious side plot involves the fixation of the Aqua Teen Hunger Force on the joys of basking in Carl's above-ground pool.  In one classic moment, Carl puts up neon racing stripes around his pool:
Carl:  Yeah.. my pool looks like it's tearin' arse around the backyard..'cept it's standing still.  Still waters run deep.
[enter Shake]
Shake:  Carl!  Whoa, that pool is tricked out...turbo!
Carl:  You stay away from it..because you are wierd.
In another episode, as Carl is blasted into the sky, his final lingering shriek is 'Stay out of my poooooool!'  In short, this is a series that was clearly a blast for the animators to put together, and it's just as much fun to watch.  I recommend it to anyone with even the faintest hint of appreciation for the absurd.