I just made the foray into BluRay since HD-DVD has gone defunct by purchasing the <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001GAOYCI">Panasonic DMP-BD55K 1080p Blu-Ray Player</a> here on Amazon.  I waited for this player because my surround sound processor has 7.1 inputs but pre-dates HDMI signal transfer and I wanted to have the newest HiRez audio formats.  I run HDMI directly into my projector for HD video.  This one of the first BluRay movies I have watched and the first with DTS-HDMaster sound.  My review will be brief and will focus on the audio/visual quality and special effects as there are other reviews here that accurately describe the story.

The main menu allows you to choose DTS-HD Master and actually defaulted to it in my case.  The audio palette and soundstage was outstanding and among the very best special effects demonstrations available.  For shoot-em-up movies I don't pretend to think that there is a whole lot of difference between the various DTS and Dolby Digital variants out there because of the artificially created soundtracks of movies.  All of them go bang, send bullets flying all around you and with a proper subwoofer component whack you in the chest with each explosion, etc. Although the DTS DVD of Saving Private Ryan is still my favorite for gunfire, the mass of content of action in this movie displays excellent imaging of bullets and augments the realism of all the other film audio goodies such as nightsounds, boat engines, dialogue, etc.  Unfortunately the public may never appreciate the true beauty of the high res audio formats which is in recorded music because the masses are more interested in down res compression instead of high resolution quality.

The video on this disc is spectacular.  The cinematography is actually quite stunning for an action movie.  The three dimensional depth, brilliant color, and image quality is outstanding and is of demonstration quality and equals any I've seen in the theaters or from my HD-DVD collection.  If it were not for the graphic trauma on the human body from bullets, blades, fire, and ordnance exploding (which granted is sometimes exaggerated here for effect), you could showcase your 1080p video setup with this film proudly.

You want to see a reasonable facsimile of what a 50 caliber round would do to a person? watch this film.  Likewise, I've never seen anything quite so realistic when a guys appendage is forcefully blown off or throat is cut on film.  You want to evoke whatever emotion you feel when innocents are sent into a rice paddy with land mines for "sport" or executed via automatic rifles all in Hi Definition grandeur, then this film is for you.

So, for what this film does, which is shock and awe, both for better and for worse considering the reality that is behind the plot, this truly is a great film to to feature the best of what Hi Definition and High Resolution discs are capable of today.