This is the movie that everyone overlooked.  I have heard people call it a thriller that is too slow, a mystery that is too unimportant, and a feel-good movie that doesn't make you feel good.  It is not any of these; it is a transport to a world where your whole life is determined from the time of your birth, and it is the story of a man with too much ambition to accept his fate.  I would rank it highly among the best movies of all time.
Gattaca is set in a near-future where doctors screen embryos for genetic 'defects' during in-vitro fertilization.  Nobody has children the natural way anymore, because why would you risk having a child with high potential for heart disease?  Designer babies can be promised a life of perfect health, perfect vision, and unlimited potential.  And such children would obviously grow into better workers, athletes, and lifemates.  Genetic discrimination might be illegal, but everybody does it.  A handshake, a fallen hair, any mark that your body leaves behind can be used to measure just how perfect or imperfect you are.
Enter one Vincent Freeman (Ethan Hawke).  He is a love child, a "faith birth", an In-Valid with bad genes, nearsightedness, and a potential (but unconfirmed) heart defect.  He dreams of the stars, and of exploring them himself one day.  But Gattaca - the future's equivelent to NASA - only employs the best of the best, the cream of the crop... the genetically perfect.  Denied his dream, Vincent joins the underground ranks of the "de-gene-rates", "borrowed ladders", people who refuse to play the genetic hand that they were dealt.  He purchases the identity of the recently-crippled Jerome 'Eugene' Morrow (Jude Law), and he meticulously replaces his every fallen hair and drop of blood with samples from Eugene.
And it works.  Armed with Eugene's biology, Vincent-as-Jerome has the drive, discipline, and ability to live his dream.  As the movie opens, he is one of Gattaca's most promising candidates, getting ready for his first mission into space.  But one inattentive moment, caught by an ill-timed murder investigation, threatens to unravel everything Vincent has worked for.
Gattaca is several things rolled into a larger picture.  There is a thriller aspect: will Vincent evade detection or will he be unmasked and have his dreams shattered?  There is a love story: does the woman he is involed with care about him, or his genes?  There is a background mystery: who is responsible for the murder of the mission director?  But none of these are the central theme, which is this: how far can the human spirit go in pursuit of a dream?
The movie asks and tries to answer that question in flawless manner.  The clean-cut, sanitized designs of the future evoke a vaguely impersonal setting.  The pacing of the movie is slow, but steady - every moment is played perfectly.  Ethan Hawke delivers a fantastic performance as Vincent, but it is Jude Law who really shines as his opposite - a man with everything but ambition, someone who felt entitled to the world and is now too angry and embittered to help himself.
Andrew Niccol's screenplay is simply brilliant, and full of detail, right down to the words and phrases - degenerates, borrowed ladders, 'Eugene' and eugenics, Gattaca and the G/C/A/T codes that make up DNA.  There is far too much depth in this movie to convey in any review.  I have watched it a half-dozen times, and there is always a nuance or subtle take that I missed before, and which changes the way I think of it.
Ultimately, Gattaca is a movie with a strong belief in the human spirit.  It is not just clever, it is smart - its joy isn't in its twists and turns, but in its message.  It is a parable about the importance of dreams in a world captivated by genetic science.  And I think that anyone who lives in todays world, with the near-future looming so close overhead, should be able to appreciate it.