Both my daughter and I skate (seriously but not terribly seriously) so I probably have a slightly different perspective from the public at large..but here goes. This is a movie about two moms with regets about the path they each failed to follow and want a second chance at their dreams through their daughters. And each of the daughters accommodate them to a point. The story gets interesting when their paths intersect and the brainy physics star daughter wants to pursue skating glory while the other wishes to give up success in skating for academic pursuits. If you knew nothing about skating you could follow the laughs and pathos through to  the happy conclusion and probably only note with mild amusement the unreality of the academic daughter's  proclaimed poverty despite a rather beautifully appointed house complete with skating pond. On that level I enjoyed the movie and my daughter (7.5 years) thought it was "the best". However I do feel compelled to comment on the unreality of the portrayal of the skating world. Skating moms generally are a pretty altruistic bunch, volunteering loads of hours to skating clubs which provide kids the opportunity to learn and perform and, yes, compete. There's a lot of camaraderie and friendship among the moms and the kids and I have found everyone to be really supportive of each other. The idea that a mother or coach would threaten to call the police because someone was making a digital recording of their skater's triple whatever is nothing short of ludicrous. The incidence of "head games" or "dirty tricks" certainly does not occur with the frequency suggested in the movie and personally I have never seen or heard of it. My second issue is the silly suggestion that anyone could progress in the sport with the speed of the heroine. Ok, this is at the crux of the story and one has to suspend belief for this one, but just so you know, it generally takes at least 7-10 years of nearly daily practice (and "raw talent") to be doing good triples. Even if you also have studied physics.  My final issue is aesthetic. If you watch skating up close at a competition or exhibition, it looks so beautiful it really takes your breath away. The jumps and spins look amazing and often the choreography is such an extension of the music, that the artistry just transports the viewer. Not so in this movie. They are so busy editing the skating shots to make sure you can't tell when they're put in a "skating double" that the beauty of the skating experience is largely lost. Also I supect some digital enhancement of the speed of the spins--they just didn't look right-but that's a minor point. For a formula story about two moms and two daughters, Disney has done a decent job of giving a little extra in the character development department and there are enough laughs and pathos to make it well worth a trip to the theatre. But please believe that there is very little about skating in the movie which bears any resemblance to reality.