This was a cute movie and quite entertaining for when you are bored and just want to watch something to take your mind off. However, I must admit that if it hadn't been filled with a star-studded cast, it would be really boring and pretty bad actually. In fact, the one thing that made this movie semi bearable was the fact that nearly every scene had an important, often high-caliber star hidden in there somewhere and half of the fun of this movie was pointing out the stars - like "oh, there is Brad Cooper" or "Wow, Jessica Biehl" and "Hey, this is Kathy Bates."

This movie is about the lives of about half a dozen couples or so and some lonely souls in between in the span of roughly twenty-four hours during Valentine's Day. In the end, all their stories interconnect. Most of it is pretty predictable and right on formula and as I write, I must admit that the most fun really in this movie was pointing out the stars part and seeing what they are up to.

There are comatosely, slow moments - like the story line about that old couple played by Shirley MacClaine and Hector Elizondo. Sorry, didn't care hearing about their WWII romance and how she cheated on him like 50 years ago. Whatever.  The other part I fast forwarded through was all the juvenile, silly parts with Taylor Lautner and Taylor Swift (haha - how cute - yes we get it - both are named "Taylor" - very clever) whose idea of romance is planning on having sex during lunch time "because it is the only time we got today." Taylor Swift cannot act and is dumb like a rock and appears ot be playing herself mainly. The scenes with her are cringe-worthy and I must say - never having paid any attention to her face before really - I realized how much she looks like a cross between a rat and a pig and just weird. Anyway, the "high schooler" segment just didn't seem to fit the theme and pace of the rest of the movie and it was obvious she got the part not because of her acting skills (she has none), but because of her name. In fact, having a big name seems to have the prerequisite for being signed on to this movie.

Having said that, I believe one of the huge issues with this film is in fact that it is filled left and right with a star-studded cast; packed in fact. While entertaining from a fun perspective as mentioned above, it was pretty bad from a narrative, acting, character-development and substance angle. I mean they had these stars - some of whom are amazing actors - packed into this meaningless, superficial patchwork of a movie, totally underutilizing them (I dont think anyone had more than three minutes of screen time per scene) - eventually leading to a watered-down story and equally watered down characters. This is a perfect example of why quantity doesn't necessarily equal quality - as this was just overkill. And is ultimately this overkill that did not allow the individual talents and strengths of each actor to shine through.

Jessica Alba, aside from looking washed out from that awful blonde hair, had a total of five minutes of screen-time and the story of her, Ashton Kutcher and Jennifer Garner seemed wrapped up "too quickly". Overall, they just stuffed too many story lines and too many issues and conflicts in there for any single one of them to be satisfactorily resolved or even meditated on and fleshed out. It was an assembly line "check and go".

There was also a lot of not so subtle product placement in this movie and overall it seemed all a little bit too much like a promotion for Valentine' Day - sort of as if the industry got together and thought of a way to make a two hour, star cast commercial to somehow revive the holiday. That is, I guess, why nearly all actors are either high profile, established ones or otherwise big names (Lautner from the Twilight movies and Swift the mega country music star etc.). I wonder why any of them signed up for this piece of tourist trinket in the first place and how the studio could afford them all. I hear Roberts gets paid something like 20 million per movie and all other actors are well established enough, so their salaries lie in the millions as well. This wasn't a cheap and I assume the only way they could afford it was all that product placement. Emma Roberts obviously got the part because of her aunt Julia Roberts - no question about it.

In the end you had a lot of loose ends, many superficial endings, unbelievable and unauthentic human relationships and interactions and just not much substance but instead lots of frosting in the from of super stars. If you are looking for a sensitive, intelligent and somewhat meaningful story, you will be disappointed. But ifyou look ot fill your time with mindless banter, go for it.