Although this film was released over 25 years ago, NETWORK is still revelant today. Winner of four Oscars AND four Golden Globes, NETWORK was also selected by the National Film Registry for preservation.
The film tells the story of Howard Beale (Peter Finch in a bravura performance), a faded news anchor for the lowest rated broadcast network. Two weeks before his scheduled departure, he declares during his nightly broadcast that he will publicly commit suicide. Everyone is shocked and stunned by this revelation. Management decides to immediately remove Beale off the air. After some persuasion by Max Schumacher (William Holden), longtime buddy and network executive, Beale is allowed on for one more broadcast. What Beale says then is equally shocking, but this time something unexpected happens. Because of what Beale said, his overnight ratings take a sharp boost.
Beale's sudden popularity boost attracts the interest of Diana Christensen (Faye Dunaway), an ambitious young programming executive at the network. Although she's not in the news department, she wants to develop a new program with Beale.
Within a short while, Beale has the hottest program on television. What follows is a series of surprising and provocative twists that will leave the viewer completely engaged and glued to the screen.
NETWORK is the work of a masterful writer (Paddy Chayefsky), who gets a credit similar to the overused (and often undeserved) "a film by" credit. Wisely, the filmmakers here know that the script is the foundation for this great film.
Chayefsky's craft is evident throughout this script. The structure is very sharp with many great lines peppered throughout the script.
This is not to discount the other talented people involved with this film. Sidney Lumet's direction is superb without drawing attention to itself. The cast, which also includes Robert Duvall and Beatrice Straight (the latter won an Oscar while only appearing in two scenes) works incredible well together. 
Judging from some superficial similarities between the two films, NETWORK appears to be an inspiration for Spike Lee's ill-fated drama about television, BAMBOOZLED. However, the latter pales in comparison. While Lee didn't quite know how to balance the sensational elements in his script, Chayefsky passed with flying colors.
The DVD is a little light on features. It includes the original threatrical trailer (complete with CARA rating), chapter selection and subtitles. The only "extras" are a choice of both anamorphic ("widescreen") and full screen ("pan and scan") versions along with a quiz on quotes from the film.
While light on the features that many DVD buyers come to expect, NETWORK is still a must-see film. For anyone who wants to learn about film structure and pacing it's an excellent film to study. For everybody else, it's simply a VERY entertaining film.
See it. For fans of BAMBOOZLED, go see what Spike Lee could have accomplished with his film.