THE DARJEELING LIMITED (2007)

INSIGHTSEEING BY RAIL

Welcome all to "Wes's World", a tight knit group of friends and collaborators that closely resembles a vaudevillian family, a traveling troupe of players, writers, producers, and directors. Director Wes Anderson is the vertex, the hub that all others gravitate toward and hover around. On the strength of just five films in ten years, Anderson has created a cinematic niche, a new genre -the "Wes Anderson Film". His comic humanism has him compared to Francois Truffaut and Louis Malle. Early on Martin Scorsese became a fan, stating in an article for ESQUIRE that Anderson, "Will become the next Scorsese". He corralled young Wes and sat him down for a screening of Jean Renior's THE RIVER (1951). Anderson was inspired and set out to watch a lot of Indian cinema, especially those films of legendary director Satyajit Ray. He has stated that he made DARJEELING LIMITED (2007) as further proof of his fascination and inspiration. Further he dedicated the film to Ray's memory, and rather than having an original musical score done for the movie, he "borrowed" original music from several Indian films, including some of Satyajit Ray's.

Now let's see -Roman Coppola, a buddy of Anderson's who is also brother to Sofia and son to Francis Ford, is a cousin to Jason Schwartzman, the star of Anderson's RUSHMORE (1998) and Schwartzman in a moustache is a dead ringer for Luke Wilson -who along with his brother Owen Wilson are frequent Anderson collaborators and compadres. Add Coppola's girlfriend, Jennifer Furches, along with Bill Murray and Anjelica Huston, and Ben Stiller -and we get a glimpse of the "Wes Anderson Stock Company". Many of the great filmmakers have done things this way, John Wayne learning how to do it from mentor John Ford, Clint Eastwood learning how to do it from mentor Don Siegel. After all an artist certainly can "trust" his friends, can be himself with them.

Last year, after an inspiration from Anderson, Schwartzman and Coppola and the young maverick director boarded a train in India, and traveled for a month scouting locations for and writing the screenplay of THE DARJEELING LIMITED. Anderson claimed that part of the idea for writing about three brothers came from a John Cassavetes film, HUSBANDS (1970).

"My main idea was not the train, not India, not the brothers," said Wes Anderson, "My main idea was -I want to write with Jason and Roman."

So Schwartzman had an apartment in Rome, after filming Sofia Coppola's MARIE ANTONEITTE (2006). Wanting to get out of NYC after a decade there, Anderson came to Italy and "crashed" at Schwartzman's apartment. Then for a time he and Jason were roommates. During that period he pulled out his notebook and laid out the bare bones plot of DARJEELING LIMITED, and the movie was "hatched on the spot". They then recruited Roman, who lived there too, and there travels to India began.

The plot of the film gave us the three Whitman brothers, Francis, Peter, and Jack, estranged for a year after their father's funeral, whom had been run down by a NYC taxi driver and met a gruesome untimely demise. The brothers were reunited in India, cajoled into coming by the eldest, Francis (Owen Wilson). Francis got his siblings to come by convincing them that this trip was their chance to reconnect as brothers, to be "close -like we used to be." The middle brother, Peter (Adrien Brody), joined them even though his wife was expecting their first child. He traveled wearing his father's oversized sunglasses, even though the prescription was wrong for him. Later we discover he is carrying the father's razor. All three boys carry their father's 11 pieces of ornate leather luggage, hand carved and expensive. The youngest brother, Jack (Jason Schwartzman), traveled shoeless and clueless, happy to be an aimless shiftless Lothario wherever he went. Days into the trip Francis revealed that mostly the point of their adventure would be to find and reunite with their mother (Anjelica Huston). She had not attended her husband's funeral because she "didn't want to." She had escaped to a remote part of India, to a convent temple, and was more than willing to completely give herself to Jesus, to a higher power, and care for dozens of ragamuffin orphans -but she had no time for her own prodigy, no time for the real world.

I had come to see a Wes Anderson film -some kind of intellectual comedy that would be born out of sadness, a dysfunctional family struggling to function in an impartial world, something cleverly written, full of wry wit, absurdity, burlesque and vaudeville pranks and pratfalls, with characters who feel lost, consumed with their journeys that transport them first nowhere and then somewhere. After an hour of small smiles and tiny chuckles, enjoying and applauding Anderson's use of Marx Brother's manic moves, Three Stooges silliness, slow motion scenes, wide angle vistas, and a clever use of music -I suddenly found myself laughing aloud, and my cheeks were wet with tears. It happened somewhere in the story after the funeral of the drown child. This literary and cinematic territory, so wonderfully traveled in THE ROYAL TENENBAUMS (2001) -was refined for this film, and better focused.  Inexplicably Wes Anderson found a way to touch my emotions, to pressure me into some semblance of identifying with the characters, those wealthy misfits, products of a fractured family; no mean feat for a blue collar kid like myself.

For me this film is a book end, a companion piece to THE TENENBAUMS -two somewhat parallel related plots about privileged families, whose individual members all struggle with the lack of parental guidance and love, and struggle against the influence of parental neglect and absence in their lives; trapped in their situation, fighting for their freedom. This is certainly not a tight film, nor a perfect film, but its jagged edges-- colored and back dropped with the immensity and magic of Mother India, are miraculously pulled closer together as the boys "let go of their baggage."

Glenn Buttkus 2007