This movie was just straight out horrible.  It was so unrealistic that I thought that Star wars was way more realistic.  This movie [was bad].  Heres the reasons why below:

  1.  They combined hard rock.  C'mone, QUEEN PLAYING WE WILL ROCK YOU IN MEDIEVIL DAYS?!?!?! ARE THESE PEOPLE INSANE?!?!?!
  2.  The hairstyles, (Such as the queen whatever her name is) Had a weird style which could ONLY BE DONE WITH HAIRSPRAY OR MOOSE! They didn't have that back in the old days.
  3.  The actors were horrible.  I think all of them were each talentless.
  4.  Everybody was clean shaven.  Oh yeah, a lot of people were clean shaven back in those days.  I'm being sarcastic here.  Nobody was clean shaven in those days.
  5.  The blacksmith created a Nike symbol.  Oh yeah, nike.  Listen, Nike was considered a god in the mythological days, and the swoosh symbol of Nike was in there too.  Then, the shoe company took up the symbol and the name and the shoes became a bestseller.  No blacksmith created the nike symbol.
  6.  The characters were so unrealistic that It's unbelievable.
  7.  The main actor, Keith whatever, is no talent and he is a pretty boy.  He has no acting skills and the parts where he's trying to be dramatic is just laughable!
  8.  The story was predictable, and not to mention shallow.
  9.  I think that whoever made this movie, what company or what not, was probably just desperate for money.  The props were cheap and the acters were horrible, the story was, by all means, easy to reject and to hate.
  10.  The chances of seeing this movie? NEVER.  It was boring beyond belief.
  11.  It's a movie that's really embarrasing to own, I'm sure, and I'm thankful I don't have it.
  12.  The parts that are supposed to be comedic are just dull and not in any way laughable.
  13.  This is not a good romantic swashbuckling adventure.  I expected some good stuff in a fantasy, much like the old conan movies with Arnold.  They didn't do that, cuz whoever wrote the script can't write for dirt and plus the entire movie was just horrible.
  ...  I can't imagine who would like it.  Wanna hear the GOOD Thing about this movie? ...BR>  The goods of this movie:
  It'll put you to sleep if you're having trouble sleeping.  It's so boring that you'll get good nap time! THAT'S THE ONLY GOOD PART, PLUS THIS MOVIE IS UNREALISTIC!! DID I POINT OUT IT'S UNREALISTIC?