Upon your first viewing of "Clueless", it would appear that it is a sterotypical teen-movie.  Let me assure you, the underlying story is much deeper that would first appear.  Cher Horowitz, played by Alicia Silverstone, would appear to be a typical Beverly Hills rich snob who likes to meddle in others' affairs.  Cher has a gift.  Cher's gift is the art of argument.  Cher always gets her way.  She can even argue her grades from C's to A-'s.  Cher also like to play matchmaker.  During the movie, Cher sets up two of her teachers, Ms. Geist and Mr. Hall (played by Twink Caplan and Wallace Shawn).  Cher's intentions were not necessarily all for her teachers' benefit, but rather her own benefit through their happiness.  If Cher's teachers are happy, she could easily argue her grades.  Cher's main project, though, is a new student from New York, Tai Frasier.  Cher and her best friend Dionne take Tai under their "popular wings" and decide to totally transform her into a supermodel.  Cher is so happy with her "good deed" that she doesn't realize that she created a monster.  Suddenly, Tai is the most popular girl in school and Cher is left by the roadside.  It is at this moment that Cher realizes how unimportant the things she used to value are.  Cher's character completely matures throughout the movie.  The ultimate maturation occurs when she realizes that the one she "hates" the whole time is actually the one she loves.  Cher's ex-brother-in-law, Josh (played by Paul Rudd) is the only person that sees through Cher's "perfection" and calls her on her imperfections.  It is Josh's honesty that Cher hates early on, but learns to value in the end.  Believe it or not, this movie is based on "Emma", the 1816 classic written by Jane Austen!  From a distance the stories do not seem alike, but believe me, they are!  Almost all the characters are the same!  Cher is Emma, Josh is Mr. Knightly, Christian is Frank Churchill, Travis is Mr. Martin, Tai is Harriet Smith, Mel Horowitz is Mr. Woodhouse, Elton is Mr. Elton, Amber is Mrs. Elton, Dionne is Ms. Taylor, Murray is Mr. Weston, and Mr. Hall/Ms. Geist were simply added to show Cher's matchmaking capabilities.  There are many scenes in the movie that mirror the classic.  The car scene, in which Cher is forced to reject Elton (played by Jeremy Sisto) is exactly like the carriage scene where Emma rejects Mr. Elton.  Josh saves Tai from embarrassment by dancing with her at a dance; The same thing occurs in "Emma" between Mr. Knightly and Harriet Smith.  The title "Clueless" really is clever because both Emma and Cher truely are clueless to the harm they cause.  Emma and Cher are also clueless of the world outside of their sheltered lives.  Those who have not seen "Clueless", must see it, but only after reading the story of "Emma".  Those who have seen "Clueless" and did not like it, I urge you to read "Emma" and watch it again.  "Clueless" is simply a modern-day interpretation of a timeless classic!  Open your mind and absorb Amy Heckerlings 1995 version of one of the greatest stories of all time!
-Joel Maxam-