I tend to agree with the high praise here, but I have a few thoughts to add.  First off, every shot is beautifully photographed and there are some simply amazing tracking shots. In that sense, this is an "art" movie if there ever was one, perhaps reflecting it's (alleged) subject matter. Little of this seems flamboyant for its own sake. Another aspect worth note is the medieval "feel" of the movie. At times it really seems as if someone took a film camera back 700 years or so. Oh, and it should be mentioned what tremendous testicles Tarkovsky must have had to take as his subject matter, in early 1960's Russia, a renowned medieval icon painter. This had to be a mighty thumb of the nose to the Soviet state and arguably an act of subversion.

Pacing is slow, but no more glacial than movie like 2001, or Once Upon A Time In America, say.

But here's the brass tacks for the novices to know: this movie is episodic to say the least, and the only film I know of wherein the title character takes a lengthy vow of silence. When the vow is finally up, the movie seems to lose interest in Andrei altogether, and he becomes a background figure.  But it's here, finally that Tarkovsky shows what he can do with a straight ahead narrative--although that narrative isn't about Andrei. It's about the young son of a newly deceased bell maker, who insists that his father has told the secrets of bell making only to him. It'll mean his head if he's b.s.-ing, and we as viewers aren't sure.  And here's where the movie picks up pace and emotional power.  How much this power relies on the two previous not-too-seemingly-connected hours is hard to say.

Oh, and Vladimir gets sacked. Convincingly.

There are images and scenes that will stick to your ribs. It will help if you're already interested in art, religion, Russia, or splendid cinematography.  Or bell making, come to think of it. If one of your neighbors begins a medieval smelting process in their back yard, odds are they've been inspired by this film.