I had been contemplating for months on whether to actually watch this film. I had read so many reviews about it in just about every FILM MAGAZINE around... heard spots on the radio, etc.  So, when I saw the UNRATED VERSION for sale at a local DVD shop, I decided to buy it and have a few friends over!!!

I knew we were in for something different (albeit 'different' not neccessarily meaning "good" but rather "terrifying). I had done my research...

Apparently, loosely based on 3 true events from the AUSTRALIAN OUTBACK... (1)The BACKPACKER MURDERS of the early 1990's, (2) The SNOWTOWN MURDERS of 1999 and (3) The PETER FALCONIO DISSAPPERANCE of 2001.

The only "ties" that bind these 3 events together being...  THE BREATHTAKING (& FRIGHTENING) VAST AND UNINHABITED OUTBACK... A GROUP OF UNEXPECTING TOURISTS... AND FINALLY A HELPFUL "BUSHTUCKER-MAN/STEVE IRWIN/CROCODILE DUNDEE TYPE" WHO QUICKLY TURNS OUT TO BE A PSYCHOPATH LOOKING TO TORTURE HIS VICTIMS...

We are introduced to BEN (an Aussie) and his two travelling companions Liz and Kristy (2 British Girls). They have decided to travel together to Wolf Creek National Park to visit the Crater formed by a Meteor.

The story starts by building on the characters from the word go and we see the interesting bond between them. Ben has actually fallen for one of the girls and his affections are well met...

Along the way to Wolf Creek we are introduced to some less than savoury characters ... which slowly starts building the tension and you realise that the inevitable is going to happen... but the Director masterfully weaves doom and gloom with stunning and breathtaking views of the Australian Outback and a few "nicer" moments which constantly mask the horrors that await our troupe.

I had the "gut feelings" of DELIVERANCE constantly rolling around in my head whilst watching this film. A group of people heading out of their happy existence to innocently tackle nature in unknown surroundings...

After the 3 HOUR HIKE in Bad Weather... they return to their vehicle which won't start and after deciding to sleep and wait for help, they are found by "Mick"... a cheerful outback hunter who knows a great deal about cars. He says he can fix their car for free and has the part back at his workshop...

They trust him and he tows them to his shop.

After what seems like hours for them... and the viewer... the tension builds and we end up at Mick's place.

Again, the Doom and Gloom ends and you see the 4 of them around a fire chatting and finding out more about Mick who seems to be quite a funny bloke - keen to help. He starts fixing their car for them... whilst they enjoy the warmth and his hospitality... as well as his Fresh Water from 'the top end'... and it's off to bed.

The next morning they awake from the drugged water... separated... bound, gagged and tied up... Mick's place has become Mick's Lair... Mick has guns, knives and loves to torture and rape (and from the look of things, hints and discoveries that are made through the film, Mick has been doing this for quite some time)... and so our 3 adventurers are flung into a sick web... a web where Mick's fun is in the hunt... and Mick happens to be an expert marksman.

What follows in not easy to watch... but the film is superbly made on a shoe string budget... JOHN JARRETT (in an incredible performance) will go down as one of the toughest and meanest horror movie heavies in Cinema History. As well as the 3 "unknows" who also make their roles incredibly real.

This is a huge departure from Mainstream Cinema Horror, the likes of SAW II, AMITYVILLE HORROR, etc... and the gritty, life like footage adds to the terror.

Good Luck  - "Like ya little friend said, that ain't a knife... this is a knife..."