I love this movie! "I Love You, Man" takes place in Los Angeles, California in present day starring the delightful Paul Rudd, Rashida Jones, and Jason Segal. Paul Rudd plays the character Peter Klaven, who is rather reserved and doesn't have many friends, which never seems to faze him until he proposes to the love of his life, Zooey Rice. Zooey has two best friends who she has had forever; Denise, played by Jamie Pressley and Hailey played by Sarah Burns. Zooey, Denise, and Hailey have a bunch of friends together that one night a week they host girls' night at each other's houses. During one of those girls nights, after Peter proposes to Zooey, Peter walks into Zooey and friends discussing how Peter not only doesn't have a best friend but he doesn't have any friends, therefore he most likely won't have a best man for their June wedding. Upset and embarrassed, Peter is on a mission to find friends or a best man. He seeks help through his brother Robbie, played by the hysterical, Andy Samberg, and through the help of his mom, played by the lovely Jane Curtain. The "friends" his mom and brother find for Peter are amusing and completely out there. But, out of nowhere he eventually finds Sydney Fife, played by Jason Segal. Peter and Sydney become fast friends and their relationship is truly great. In a way, they are complete opposites, Peter being more reserved, self conscious and having low self esteem, whereas Sydney being quite odd in his strange outfits such as shorts and ugg boots in the middle of June in California, and living a more carefree lifestyle just being who he is and not caring what people say and think of him.

I think the acting is great and I love the pairing of Paul Rudd and Jason Segal. Paul Rudd is funny and charming and plays a fiance that every girl dreams to have. Jason Segal is fun, crazy and very entertaining. They play off each other really well throughout the film. The beautiful Rashida Jones, Jon Favreau and Tom Lennon light up the screen.

I think Peter learns a lot from Sydney and I think after spending more time with him he starts to finally be more comfortable in his own skin and more confident with his work and relationships. Could Sydney be Peter's best man in the wedding just around the corner? I guess you have to see for yourself in this bro-mantic comedy! I highly recommend this for anyone who enjoys comedy, romance and laughing!

Want more movie reviews and up to date movie news? Check out [...]