This is it! The definitive video version of the Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy! Sure, it "looks" better in the books or on the radio, but the TV show has it's highpoints, too. The best aspect of the show for me is the visual display of the guide, backed by Peter Jones' marvellous narration. The only thing that doesn't work for me in the TV show is Sandra Dickenson as Trillian. Her performance is adequate, but it just doesn't quite work for me. Maybe it's the voice. Dickenson makes me give the show itself 4 stars. However, with all the fantastic extras it's definitely a 5 star pacakge. I'll get to those in a moment.
The DVD restores all footage cut after the initial BBC transmission and even gives us a scene that was never transmitted, at the beginning of episode 6. Episode 2 runs about 34 and a half minutes & Episode 6 runs nearly 36 minutes. The other episodes run about 32 minutes, which, to my recollection, is longer than any US broadcast that I've seen. ... No commentary, but the production notes, which can be turned on by using your 'subtitle' button or selecting the option from the 'setup', are very informative. They point out many facts that even a hardcore fan, like myself, might be unaware of.
... For the most part, the new stereo audio option is fine, with some nice stereo effects. The narration was poorly handled, though. Rather than hearing it in both channels, it is in the left channel with the guide entries, and in the right channel during regular narration. If you find that the narration is 'missing' in some scenes, press your audio button once or access the setup menu from the main menu and select 'mono'. This will restore the sound to the original mono soundtrack, which I personally prefer.
The extras on disc 2 are stellar. You get the excellent 1 hour documentary, "The Making of the Hitchhiker's Guide to The Galaxy", a 25 minute feature called "Don't Panic" which contains material shot for the "Making of" program which was not included in the original 1990's release. The fabulous Douglas Adams tribute from the BBC show "Omnibus" is included, which is a touching tribute to Adams and includes many cast from Hitchhiker's, as well as Stephen Fry and Monty Python's Terry Jones.
There are also several shorter features, including deleted scenes, a behind the scenes segment about the radio show, an interview with the animator of the Guide entries, a feature about Zaphod's second head, and a lot more.
A terrific package, which I found very satisfying.