Many people have (somewhat wrongfully, in my opinion) lambasted this movie by dwelling on the perceived overuse of special effects and the subtle changes to the plot of the original book. Quite frankly, while these charges are at least somewhat true, these people fail to enjoy this movie for what it is--a modern reinterpretation, rather than an outright remake.

Case-in-point, many people reading this might not realize that H.G. Wells was going for strict social commentary when drawing up the Morlock and Eloi. The biological distinction was intended to mirror the class distinction that was beginning to spread as the western world industrialized towards the end of the 19th century. Naturally, this notion is virtually meaningless in a post-industrial service economy such as the United States or England, where the vast majority of the people have better standards of living than they did when H.G. Wells wrote this book. Thus, it only seems natural that the movie-makers would alter a few major plot elements in order to more accurately explain this situation from a modern point-of-view (i.e., the destruction of the moon). Incidentally, I think this was actually quite well done: the writers show how our hubris ends up being our downfall. But none of this is particularly new. The previous film version chalked it up to nuclear war, a far more plausible notion at the time it was made. Therefore, while they may have tweaked a few plot elements, they serve the movie quite well, and add a nice coherent feel to the overall presentation.

I am honestly a little offended that this movie was not nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Score. Klaus Badelt is a timeless genius, on par with (and possibly greater than) Hans Zimmer. The dramatic overtures during the time travel sequences and the moving world music motifs during the scenes with the Eloi (highly reminiscent of certain Polynesian and African pieces) were enough to bring me to my knees. On the whole, I think the music was incredibly appropriate for this movie; much more so than a lot of the random mainstream songs haphazardly cobbled together for certain genres of movies.

In general, I greatly enjoyed this movie as a piece of fun escapism. For the record, I enjoyed the original H.G. Wells novel, and I think the producers did a reasonably good job modernizing it. I would recommend this movie to fans of classic science fiction only if they are not strict traditionalists when it comes to scripts and willing to keep an open mind.