I'm not quite sure what Rian Johnson intended to accomplish with this film, but in my opinion the film's greatest accomplishment is highlighting the absurdity of film noir itself.

Many people criticize this film for the absurdity of its setting, its dialog, its characters, and the difficulty one encounters suspending disbelief for the 110 minutes of running time. I think such critics are engaging in a subtle hypocrisy. Film noir always was absurd, and always required suspension of disbelief. By placing those absurdities in an unfamilar historical setting, a clearly fictional and somewhat otherworldly setting of saturated black and white, classic noir may seem cohesive to modern audiences. Thus even the literalists among us can enjoy the classics of film noir. But do not fool yourselves. It is not real, and never was. Nobody ever talked that way, and nobody ever will, except perhaps in a life-imitates-art affectation.

Rian Johnson committed the arguably hostile act of forcing his audience to cope with the fact that a particular set of cinematic customs is at once enjoyable and absurd. By using a modern and realistic setting and shooting in color, he is forcing us to integrate the customs of noir into our own world, and obviously the result is jarring and hard to accept. Mr. Johnson is challenging us to enjoy it despite its absurdity, and indeed, to enjoy it because it is absurd. Many people do not know what to do with this movie because it seems to be playing both satirical and straight at the same time. Is it comedy? Is it noir? It is both at the same time; live with it. But it is also subversive because it is poking fun at the audience and our expectations. That can arouse anger but it should arouse nothing but admiration, because Rian Johnson makes a dramatically effective point through this movie.

The question is, is that enough? It is certainly clever, but is the gimmick sufficient to sustain the film? Almost, I believe, but not quite, which is why I gave it 4 stars. I have a very prosaic complaint, that the dialog is just too hard to understand. The comedy and subversiveness came through fine, but to enjoy it as a detective story, I would have preferred if I didn't have to work quite so hard to understand just what was being said.