"Suddenly, Last Summer" is one of my favorite films for many reasons.  The lush writing is Tennessee Williams at his best.  The Screenplay is far superior to his original work, which was a short stage play. Due the bizarre subject matter of the story and because it was the late 1950's, much of the plot was considered taboo by the film censors. William had to then mask and conceal much of the questionable and unpleasant subject matter in a way that would insure getting the film approved.  For example instead of using the word rape, Williams had to describe a character as "loosing her honor".  Gore Vidal helped Williams adapt his work for the film and these great writers produced a script that is both poetic and dripping with lurid prose.  Because of this the film takes on a surreal and dreamlike state that is heightened further by the glorious black and white photography.  I don't think this film would have been nearly as effective in color!

The basic plot, without giving away too much, concerns a New Orleans Brain Surgeon (Montgomery Cliff) who is asked by a wealthy widow (Katherine Hepburn) to perform a lobotomy on her demented Niece (Elizabeth Taylor).  Hepburn wants to erase from Taylor's mind a horrific memory of what happened the prior summer while Hepburn's beloved son was on vacation with Taylor.  Taylor witnessed his death on a tropical island.  There is much more to the story but half the fun of this creepy film is letting it unfold to its unbelievable climax.  I especially love the last twenty minutes which is shown in flashback. We get to see exactly what Elizabeth Taylor experienced that made her go crazy.  Both Taylor and Hepburn were nominated for Academy Awards for their work in this film...and it shows!  Special mention goes to Taylor for allowing herself, in the first half of the film, to be photographed looking disheveled and a bit frumpy.  Later though we are treated to seeing her in all her glory as one of the most beautiful women ever put on film!

This movie isn't for everyone though.  You must love old black and white movies and invest some thought into just what Williams and Vidal were trying to say.  There are long deliciously written monologues that some may find boring.  To me it's a well acted gothic mystery that only gets better with repeated viewings.