If there is one thing elementary chaos theory tells us, it's that ALL robots will eventually rise up and overthrow their human masters!  Well, this movie came out BEFORE chaos theory was even postulated, and they  called it dead on the money! Richard Benjamin plays a wussy, recently  divorced lawyer whose macho buddy James Brolin takes him to Delos, a  futuristic adult amusement park where fantasies come true.  Westworld,  Medieval World, and Roman World are a mechanized Sodom and Gomorrah (sp?),  where by day the lucky humans kill robot guys, and by night make it with  saucy robot girls.  Unfortunately, Sodom turns into Beiruit when, all at  once, the robots rebel and start wasting all the fat, dopy humans for whom  they've taken so many dives. This movie is kind of a modern classic, and  the performances (especially Brynner as the soulless killing machine and  Benjamin as his befuddled prey) are excellent.  However, the viewer has to  overlook some plot holes through which one could safely drive a truck....  Among my favorites: 1)  Why do the robots in Roman World, who are pretty  much programmed just to feed you grapes and get naked with you start  killing when they malfunction?  Why don't they just feed you more grapes  and have even more sex with you? 2)  When the scientist-guys are  suffocating, how come in a room full of people smart enough to design  super-human robots, no one can figure out how to bust out those little  windows in the door and let air in?  They've got chairs and ashtrays that  would presumably be hard enough to break glass...? 3)  The robot-chicks are  supposed to be indistinguishable from humans in bed, yet the guns are  programmed not to fire at humans by reading body heat.  Does this mean that  the robot-chicks have no body heat?  How much fun could it be to have sex  with a woman whose body temperature is only 50 degrees?  Please, please  don't answer that! 4)  Finally, my biggest concern:  As mentioned above,  the guns are programmed with heat-sensors so they won't fire at humans.  So  how the hell do the guns just suddenly start killing humans when the robots  rebel?  I mean, the programming failure has NOTHING to do with the  heat-sensors on the guns!  Anyway, see this movie, because it's loads of  fun and it is, in a way, a metaphor for the evil encroachment of technology  into our everyday lives.  Just have a beer or something first so you won't  care about the stitches missing from the plot-fabric.