I first saw this film as a very young kid, and, of course, what does a ten year old kid know?  I do remember it being talked about, and I also remember a lot of people talking about the book, which I finally got around to reading when I was in college.  I found the book to be a vaulting and incredible literary experience.  This film, while certainly not as detailed as the book, comes pretty close in replicating the effect of the Herman Wouk best-seller.  Is Queeg mentally and emotionally unstable?  Or has he been "railroaded"?  Well, actually it's both.  Captain Queeg is definitely several tacos short of a combination plate, and my feeling is that he was ill-equiped to be in command of his ship -- especially at a point of crisis.  But were Maryk's actions totally warranted?  And of course, he was manipulated and pushed by Keefer, who possesses the ability to ignite a situation -------- and walk away from it smelling like baby's breath.  The story is by now well known, and there have been several adaptions of this book, including "The Caine Mutiny Court Marshall", which, while good as far as it goes, fails to illustrate the chain of events which led to the trial in the first place.  This film, however, does it all, and the actual trial in the final forty minutes or so of the picture is the climax.  Van Johnson is quite good as Steve Maryk, far better than in any other film I've ever seen him in.  He's clearly in the throes of a dilemma, and he is a man who can be influenced.  Fred MacMurry is also good in what is probably the best role he ever played in films.  He's laid-back, scholarly, and of course, very dangerous.  Robert Francis, who regretably had a very short film career (he was killed in, I believe, a plane crash not long after this film was completed)is a very boyish, naive Keefe. His performance is vapid, and not very good, but surrounded by the actors of this calibre, and being so inexperienced, it's amazing that he was as plausible as he is.  Finally, it's the Captain Queeg of Humphrey Bogart and the Bernie Greenwald of Jose Ferrer who dominate the film, even though Ferrer doesn't make his appearance until the final part of the film.  Bogart was nominated for an Oscar for his role (and were it not for Marlon Brando in "On the Waterfront", he probably would have won). He's craggy, definitely mentally unstable, and finally, a very sad and tragic figure.  Bernie Greenwald, in the persona of Jose Ferrer, has the unpleasant task of defending a man for whom he has little personal regard.  He comes to understand the real story, and he get's his shame and disgust off his chest at the very end of the film.  Students of American history should see this film, as well as those who respected and admired the talents of Humphrey Bogart and Jose Ferrer (both were highly skilled actors).  Finally, this is a great example of Hollywood film-making in the 1950's at it's best.