Meet the Robinsons' is a great family film period but especially if you have pre-teen kids and wanting to find a movie that will not insult their intelligence, make them laugh and still have a great message.

Meet the Robinson's is a movie that shows that it is very possible to make a clever, fun and funny movie for kids and pre-teens without having to add in any curse words, bathroom humor etc. or even to have to earn the obligatory PG rating to be hip enough for older kids.  It has a very sharp and funny spoof the old Kung Fu films that you have to see to appreciate and is also very sharp in pacing, dialogue and moral message.

It deals with a 12 year old orphan boy, Lewis, and his frustration with not being adopted and trying to gain acceptance for his uniqueness and enthusiasm for inventions that others don't really seem to understand.  Also, his wondering about what his mom was like and why he was given up for adoption.  The film does a great job of showing how he works through these issues that kids who are adopted face.  The director tells the story on the special features about how the main character in the film mirrored his own childhood.

The music in this film is just great.  The song "Little Wonders" by former Matchbox 20 front man, Rob Thomas is excellent on several levels.  It fits the mood of the film perfectly, ethereal and dream like and also has a fantastic message for kids to not let peer pressure and criticism keep you down but to keep pressing on.  "Let it go, Let it roll right off your shoulders.  Let it end the hardest part is over..  It's the heart that really matters in the end."

When Goob, Lewis' room mmate, retells the story of how bad things got for him in school.  It cleverly shows how he missed the positive from friends and focused on the negative.  `Hey Goob, nice binder Goob, his friends say.  He walks by oblivious and recounts "They all hated me" My boys 8 and 11 easily caught the message and cracked up at the same time.  They loved to go around quoting one liners from this one.

All in all, this is a great film that draws on elements from Back to the Future but has a style all it's own.  A great escape from life in general and anything but a rehash of what you have seen before.
Check it out.  The future has arrived..