At the heart of every good movie, television series, or novel is a solid story that attracts the reader's attention in every sentence, paragraph, page, or scene. In Vexille, the crisp computer enhanced animation and moody choice of colors stood out in every scene, complementing this type story at every turn. The dialogue, vocals, and content were of a high production quality and only served to create three dimensional personalities for each of the main characters. The techno-style musical samplings were often apropos for the action scenes.

A humorous scene of note was near the beginning where Vexille, the central female character, was headed into what appears to be a drive-through coffee retailer. I half-jokingly exclaimed it was the Starbucks of 2077 right before I saw a robot server present Vexille with a coffee cup that resembled the current Starbucks cup. Although the technology has progressed by leaps and bounds in 2077, the writers felt it was apt to link it to an important aspect of the "past" which is humanity's need for comfort, nurturing, and relaxation in the form of coffee or comfort foods.

Another action sequence worth mentioning involved the guerrilla fighters setting out to invade Daiwa. The buggy engines sounded similar to 4-stroke 4V DOHC engines used in Japanese hyper sport bikes. This connection to the past (our present) shows how resourceful the guerrilla fighters can be even when facing an external foe (Daiwa) and internal enemy (the nanites that are converting human cells into the bio-metal). I was on the edge of my seat waiting to see what would happen. The background score "Jag Fight" was done by Paul Oakenfold, and at first I thought it was Oakenfold's "Ready, Steady, Go" which sounds similar. Nonetheless, I thought the score was extremely apropos for the high-paced action sequence. It carries the same sense of speed and urgency that the characters are experiencing.

Overall, Vexille has a solid plot, excellent CG-enhanced animation, great dialogue, copious robots/mecha, powered suits, and technology up the wazoo. Vexille would fit right into any Sci-Fi fan's DVD collection. My only complaint is that it was rather short. I would be interested in watching a sequel if one were available!