In 1993, Chris Columbus directed Mrs. Doubtfire, one of the funniest films of the 1990's. It has since become one of my favourite films ever, and never fails to make me laugh every time I watch it. The film became a massive worldwide Box Office success at Christmas and made Robin Williams an even bigger international superstar. The film is very popular amongst the public, but critics often have a hard time giving it any praise at all, because of the acting. Even I admit that the acting in Mrs. Doubtfire is not excellent, but if you can get past that and focus on the jokes and the storyline, then you're onto a real winner.

Daniel Hillard (Robin Williams) is happily married to his lovely wife Miranda (Sally Field). Together, they have three children. Their only son is Chris (Matthew Lawrence). With him, they have two daughters. The youngest is Natalie (Mara Wilson) and the oldest is Lydia (Lisa Jakub). Miranda is a highly successful designer, and she is the one who runs the household, pays the bills and manages to live in such a massive house. Daniel is constantly between jobs, voicing cartoon characters on kids' television shows. Because of this, he gets to spend much more time with his children than Miranda does. To Daniel, life couldn't be better, but for Miranda life is hell. She constantly works and gets to spend no time with her children. The film begins (after a short introduction) one day when it is Chris' birthday. His mum says they cannot have a party, but Daniel disobeys these rules by going ahead and throwing a street party (complete with Petting Zoo!) while Miranda's at work. She returns home after a tip off from the next door neighbour totally disgusted, later telling Daniel that she wants a divorce. He is heartbroken, as are the kids. Three months later at their divorce, Daniel loses custody of his children to Miranda. He is desperate to be with his children, and no special visitation rights are good enough. So, along with his gay brother (and his partner), they hatch a disguise for Daniel. After many hours of treatment and disguises, Mrs. Doubtfire is finally born...

Daniel catches the advertisement from Miranda for a housekeeper, and rings up to inquire for the job in many awful personas that make Miranda think twice, but then Mrs. Doubtfire inquires. Fooled by Daniel's disguise, Miranda instantly hires Mrs. Doubtfire after one interview. No one knows that Mrs. Doubtfire is indeed Daniel in disguise. His children feel so far away from their father, but he's right with them at all times - well, 3:00pm until 7:00pm. In his real world, Daniel must also get a job and a place of his own and report to a social worker, Mrs. Sellner (Anne Haney). After her divorce, Miranda begins seeing her co-worker, Stu (Pierce Brosnan).

Mrs. Doubtfire contains so many excellent scenes and jokes that it's impossible to fit them all in one review. The scene where Daniel is voicing a bird for a cartoon is hilarious. Chris' birthday party is wonderful, and Daniel's impressions as he applies for a job are hysterical, too. There is also a great part where Aerosmith's "Dude Looks Like A Lady" plays in the background as Mrs. Doubtfire goes about her daily arrangements. Playing football with the kids, getting on a bus to an old driver who fancies 'her' and learning how to cook are the highlights. Daniel has to learn how to cook, after his first experience of doing so. The scene is a 'Oh-my-God-this-is-so-funny-I-can't-breathe' type scene! His facial expressions are priceless as Mrs. Doubtfire sets fire to her fake boobs. She screams her head off racing around the kitchen trying desperately to put the fire out with spatulas and pan lids! There's also an excellent scene where Mrs. Sellner visits Daniel to see how he's coping. She catches him in his Mrs. Doubtfire disguise, so he has to constantly change clothes and his voice to keep her fooled - and as if this wasn't funny enough, the scenes where he's making Mrs. Sellner's cup of tea are downright classic. "Oh, your tea!" he screams in his voice to fool the woman as she approaches the kitchen to see what's the matter with him. He has no choice but to stuff his face into cake icing to disguise himself after he looses his mask! It really is hilarious stuff. The swimming pool scenes are also excellent, where Stu asks Mrs. Doubtfire to join him and the family in the pool. "Oh! You wicked, wicked monkey!" she exclaims. So she sits by the side of the pool watching Stu take over Daniel's family!

The film ends on Miranda's birthday where all the family, Mrs. Doubtfire and Stu are invited to Bridges restaurant for a posh meal. Unfortunately, Daniel has a business meeting with a boss at a television company where he works part-time at the same restaurant. Cue many clothes-changing moments as Mrs. Doubtfire and Daniel swop seating arrangements so they can please everyone. The film then goes onto a huge revelation (obviously that Miranda discovers Mrs. Doubtfire is Daniel in disguise) and then the film finally ends on a positive note with a clear message about divorcing families and that things aren't always as bad as they seem. Overall, an excellent comedy. Highly recommended to people of all ages.