The Afterdark Horrorfest, 8 films to die for? I wouldn't go that far. I find it hard to believe that some of these eight films were too graphic to show in movie theatres.

Gravedancers is a pretty cool ghost story horror film, sure if you read some of my other horror reviews, I do like a good gory film.  This time the gore is minimal but the scares are great and the story is creepy.

In this film 3 friends come together at a friends funeral and find themselves at his grave sight to send him of their own way. But when one finds a mysterious poem left on his gravestone and then reads it, followed by the three of them dancing on the graves. Well they just sealed their fate.  The spirits of the bodies buried at those grave sights haunt each one of them.

This story escaltes from brooding and somber to an all out fright fest that kinda makes Poltergiest look like a bedtime story(don't get me wrong, Poltergiest was pretty creepy). The events that scare you in this film go from scary to scarier. The Ghost manifestations are creepy and frightening.  This film also goes into the poltergiest direction when the characters turn to a group that specializes in paranormal activity, and a little bit of pagan lore.  The paranormal group helps investigates and helps them try to get rid of the spirits before the whole thing climaxes on the next full moon. Three friends, three ghosts, the hauntings are specific that are destined to end with the death of each character.

There are a few cool suprises in this film along with a little bit of gore, but not much.

Although I gave this movie five stars I must admit the Cgi in this film was good but not great, I don't think that it took away from this film too much as most of the special effects were not cgi driven.

DVD extras include 2  making of featurettes, deleted scenes, original trailer, and of course director commentary.

Bottom Line.......Awesome, I would've gone to see this in a theatre. Great film to watch late night with the lights out.