Terrance Stamp is a brilliant actor who (like fellow Brit Michael Caine) has accepted some awful roles for the sake of a paycheck. Stamp's portrayal of General Zod, in one of the Superman sequels, is one example of how he has tainted his rich legacy. The recent release of "The Limey" proves how sublime he is when he is at the height of his acting powers. In the 1965 American/British production of the John Fowles' novel "The Collector", Terrance Stamp's understated and disturbing portrayal of Freddie Clegg is his most memorable role. Clegg is a pathological stalker who abducts Miranda Grey (played by Samantha Eggar) and imprisons her in a root cellar on the grounds of his Tudor estate in rural England. Stamp masterfully plays the role of a throughly dislikable fellow who, astoundingly, wins our sympathy by succumbing to mastery of his beautiful prey. The struggle between Stamp and Samatha Eggar to bend each other's will is a case study pyschological domination. In the end, Stamp's cunning captor is outclassed by Eggar's sense of entitlement and her intellectual sophistication. As Stamp realizes that he will never gain the love his coed hostage, he loses this twisted mating game by resorting to physical violence.
"The Collector" is of my favorite movies from the sixties.It is one of the last films of the great William Wyler, and one of those rare movies where everything works. The story line is fascinating and it is impossible to second guess the outcome. The chemistry between Stamp and Eggar is amazing. Stamp's body language of a hunching posture and downcast eyes, counterpoints Eggar's graceful movement and relentless eye contact. The musical score by Marice Jarre has a haunting majesty. Jarre was a one of the great old school film composers, from the days when scores were written to complement the movie, and not just a mish-mash of popular songs from the latest alternative rock bands. The lush, impressionistic cinematography captures the shimmering beauty of rural England. This film is a definite "keeper" and I await it's release in the DVD format.