This is a great true life story movie, classic family movie, great music-musician movie.  Who doesn't love Jimmy Stewart?  Who didn't love Glenn Miller?  Okay, maybe you're too young to get this, but then, I wasn't alive when this was going on and I know how historically important the period was.  If WWII was an era you're a little fuzzy on, it's the momentous series of events that shape our modern world, and one way to make history come alive and be interesting is to delve into the arts, the music, the popular culture of the time.  American music then dominated the whole world, just like American hip-hop spread around the globe in the 1990s. In the WWII period, big band swing became an international phenomena.  The Imperial Japanese listened to it, the Nazis listened to it, but most of all, American G.I.s overseas, the Americans working in the factories, big band swing defined America and American pride.  And Glenn Miller's band was as close as the U.S. came to having an official patriotic emotional popular national band.  Parts of the movie suffer from the same problems all movies of the post WWII era genre have, the soundtrack timing is off so that even though the real Glenn Miller orchestra is playing themselves, they're not always playing in synch with the movie, and some of the dialogue is excessive, some of the waiting scenes are too long, but on the other hand, this is a completely family friendly movie, no gratuitous sex scenes, no harsh language, no senseless violence (well there is the whole WWII thing as the historic backdrop, but no violence is depicted). I highly recommend this film to: music students, music fans, musicians, music teachers, jazz fans, swing band fans, history buffs, WWII buffs, history teachers, fans of classic movies, Jimmy Stewart fans, anyone who has never heard of Jimmy Stewart, anyone unclear on Glenn Miller or swing music, anyone who has never seen a movie made before the 1970s, parents who are tired of the postmodern Disney drivel wanting a film you can watch with kids without fast forwarding past awkward scenes, and people who like biographies.