When I saw this movie, I said to myself, "this one doesn't deserve a review; instead this one deserves that when you see it, you share your experience." And that's what I'm going to do.

I didn't have high expectations from "Smart People", despite it having (at least) three really talented actors - Dennis Quaid, Thomas H. Church and Ellen Page (with due respect to Ms. Parker!). Picked it on a whim, seeing the names and had no idea what the movie was all about.

Righaway, it hits you smack in the face - the bluntness and abruptness in the lives of the characters in the movie. They are living as if living itself is the means and the end, all the while searching for happiness the way they define it. They all have different connotations of the term, and they want to achieve their share of happiness, with the people around them, the people they care about, the people they love. The only problem is - they are about as expressive of their feelings as a rock.

Prof. Lawrence Wetherhold is an English Lit. Professor at Carnegie-Mellon, and his daughter and son don't get along with him really well, even though they care about him immensely. In fact, even the students whom the Professor declares as failures in his subject, despise him, but at the same time, respect him for his knowledge. If only his people skills were as good as even a quarter of how good his grasp over the language was, he would be the favorite of all. But of course, he is of the firm belief he doesn't need to be anyone's favorite. Hence, his misanthropic behavior only keeps on increasing day by day, until, one fine day, he begins to live within himself, merely exsiting in the outside world, even when those near and around him see him going off on a one-way road to desolation. He couldn't care less - he is smarter than all the rest of them. That's enough for him.

His behavior more-than-just rubs off on his daughter, played with amazing maturity by Ellen Page (of 'Juno' fame), who is fast growing up into a self-solitary-confinist, with no friends so to speak of, and whose only ambition in life is to crack the SAT and go to Stanford. Beyond that, all she can see is herself following in her father's footsteps, who, incidentally, is her "role model". She finds him disgusting, but at the same time, is utterly protective of him. So much so that she can't even stand when he begins dating an ex-student.

In all this chaos, Thomas H. Church plays the adopted brother of Prof. Wetherhold, who gate-crashes one fine day, and begins to belong at home in the Wetherhold household.

Things begin to get even more complicated, but the movie is directed with such believable charm that everything that happens, even though expected, is never cliche. The poignant struggle that arises when people simply refuse to understand each other, when even the slightest of efforts would have done wonders, is laid bare convincingly enough for anyone seeing the movie to introspect.

Is this the kind of life we are living today, when making ourselves understaood is so difficult that we are content with making ourselves believe that (at least) we understand ourselves? Is communication proving so elusive in the race for happiness that we forget that to thorougly enjoy that happiness, we need to share it with someone?

In my opinion, the biggest irony depicted in "Smart People" is that a professor of the English language finds it difficult to communicate with his daughter, his adopted brother, his girlfriend (to whom, btw, he is unable to explain what she is to him!), his colleagues, his students, and practically everyone he meets, and is well on his way to nowhere.

A very intelligent movie, with subtle hints of a message, which has to be searched to be found; but once found, is worth the effort.