A true story! Very few stories are told so well of the life of a man, his war buddies, and the horrific conditions of a Japanese prison camp.  It makes me angry to think that the Japanese have never apologized or attoned for the brutalities they inflicted upon SO MANY!!  I am shocked to know they were never convicted of such attrocities and murders, yet the Nazis were; I don't understand it!  Both empires were equally evil with no respect for anyone outside of their own.  TRUE prejudice!  I don't wish to forgive them their extreme viciousness throughout WWII, in and around the Pacific, to all manner of men -- women and children included (in China) yet that is the underlying theme to this movie -- forgiveness. I am overcome with emotions and tears each time I view this.  I cannot get over this kind of forgiveness in the face of such injustice, evil, and wickedness.  It is horryfying to think that men become SO brutal -- that they ENJOY the suffering of others -- it astounds me that they have no conscience left; they have become mere animals, NO . . . worse than animals -- animals don't maim and kill for sport -- they kill for sustenance; food. But equally compelling is the DIVINE grace and forgiveness of God -- the forgivness that Earnest (Ernie) shows his captors -- I am overawed at his ability to endure the torture while not being angry, but loving.  I don't know that ANY MOVIE I have ever seen has even come close to capturing such a concept. BE PREPARED -- your life will be transformed by watching this movie.  Who, of us, can complain about our lot in life after viewing this movie?  And to think that Earnest Gordon became the Dean of Princeton's chapel -- how deserving he was of such an honor!! How many people in the ministry or priesthood could attest to such treatment and survival without bitterness -- ever humbled into submission. TV evangelist he was not! Too bad he never received more acclaim in his lifetime.  Come cry with me and ponder . . . . . . . every time you see it.