I loved the book In Her Shoes and, because of this, went to the movie with trepidation.  We all know the typical story of book to movie translations (Three words:  Everything is Illuminating).  One thing got me to go see this movie--Toni Collette.  Like a lot of folks I have loved her since Muriel's Wedding and I loved the idea of her as Rose.  I was less enthusiastic with the idea of Cameron Diaz as Maggie.  As anyone who has read the book knows, Rosie is an easy character.  She is "the good sister," well behaved, responsible and wronged.  Maggie is a whole other can of worms and the difficulty here is that she is a selfish, petty person who is forced to confront her life and change it while retaining her sense of self without ever being "the bad sister."  And, I have to say, to my plesant surprise, Ms. Diaz knocked it out of the park.  She perfectly conveyed the bravando behind the party girl image as well as the pain and fear of her illiteracy, allowing Maggie to feel as though she is stupid and worthless without ever being stupid and worthless.  The movie solved the problem of the weakest point in the novel, Maggie's time at Princeton, with a deft hand (having her be a nurses aid for a college professor) which played much better on film.  The one part of the novel which got glossed over was the power of what Maggie did for the women in the retirement community when she shopped for them.  However, that is more than made up with by the climax scene where Maggie discovers that the memory of the happiest day of her life is also the memory of the day her mother killed herself (also marking the first time Maggie really faces the knowledge that her mother's car crash was likely not an accident), which carries with it all that her sister protected her from as a child.

This is one of the best movies ever about the bonds of sisters and families and how they are tested by pain--a must see for anyone who has answered a friend's question with "But she's my sister."  In the end, anyone who has had a sibling will understand both why Rose wants to kill her sister, and why she can't.