Having not seen the original Swedish "Let The Right One In", which I understand to be a classic itself, I went into this film expecting a decent two hours of entertainment. Once the end titles began, I was convinced that this is the BEST vampire tale ever put on screen since "Interview With The Vampire" some 16 years ago. This is how vampires should be portrayed...tragic and lonely figures cursed by their affliction and immortality. Sure..we've seen the current trends of highly stylized and hip vampires that "glitter in the sun" or look like they came off the cover of Teen People magazine. They're over-romanticized and make you want to be one of them, as opposed to fearing and, more importantly, pitying them.

I have a hard time classifying this as a "horror" film. It's got a fair share of frights, but the real story here is one of innocence lost and the naivite of young love. The relationship between Owen and Abby is one that is severely lacking in todays society where we tend to oversexualize our pre-teens to the point of nausea. Theirs is a sweet and self-sacrificing kind of love that is genuinely the heart of this film. It's a beautiful love story between two kids that is wrapped up in "horror film" packaging.

Chloe Moretz is going to be HUGE one day. Her performance as Abby is incredible and earnest. She plays the part of a person of considerable years, yet trapped in the body of a child, perfectly. You see it in her eyes and in every inflection of her tone when she speaks. She IS Abby in this film.

Kodi Smit-McPhee, for an Australian actor, really does his part well for his age. It's his story that actually provide the hardest parts to watch with regards to his torment at the hands of some school punks. He's odd looking, off puting, and a bit dark..but you immediately sympathize with him and his circumstances.

The adult cast, while solid and well established actors, really take a back seat to these two fine young actors.

I've no doubt the original Swedish film is just as wonderful and I look forward to seeing it, but when the author himself states that this version is another superbly executed telling of his original novel and screenplay, then I'll take his word for it.

If nothing else....it's great to finally know what happens to a vampire that enters a home uninvited. I've always wanted an answer to that "what if" scenario since I was a kid, yet never had a clue where to turn.

The direction is highly stylized and brooding, but not sacrificing any of the performances or pacing. You are SO into the story, you don't even notice how quickly two hours goes. It's enchanting, enthralling, and poetic...yet disturbing at times. It really is hard to use a single word to describe this film other than "wonderful".