I too, as an earlier reviewer, am amazed by the wildly divergent reviews. Perhaps, as with many book-to-screen productions, it is better to not have read the book first. That way, one can judge the movie on its own merits, not on whether it lives up to a reader's preconceptions of what it should be, or how the characters should be presented. That is the magic of books - we fill in all the gaps with our imagination. It seems so typical to find the most disagreement about movies based on books. Look at 'Dune'. I had not read the Dune series before watching the movie, and I loved the movie because I was able to take it just as it was presented to me.
So it is with 'The Golden Bowl'. It worked for me. None of the characters had to meet my expectations of what they needed to be for me. I let them speak for themselves within the parameters of the movie. And I understood what they were trying to get across... each of them. It is a somewhat cerebral movie, as James' novels can be, but with that curious undertow of passion that more intellectual movies about relationships can produce so well. I didn't find it boring at all, as some complained, but compelling and absorbing. The film derived its power, for me, in the subtleties, nuances, and undercurrents. The situation itself was compelling, and I wanted to see how it would play out. The fact that each character had their flaw to contribute made it fascinating... if one is looking for villains and heroes, don't look here.
That being said though, I had to admire Maggie's awakening at the end. It wasn't until she opened her eyes and looked at reality that she could become a whole person, or grow, or mature. When she finally did so, she through love, was able to deal with her reality in a wonderfully "humanitarian" way. In the same way I saw the growth of Amerigo, and the father. Charlotte's "awakening" or growth had not come yet, and I was left wondering whether she would be able to come to such a place or not. But I didn't dislike the character of Charlotte - I just felt a little sorry for her at the end, not sure whether she could achieve such a thing because of her lack of insight.