This movie is stupid. From the beginning the viewer is barraged with an onslaught of exaggerated political humor. However, the movie is funny and has its moments. There were so many things in this movie that were just so unrealistic. I know that it's a comedy, but some of the stuff here is just too much. 
Head of State is about an African-American man named Mays Gilliam who is alderman of the 9th ward in Washington, D.C. Not that part of D.C. that we all imagine-the idealistic, majestic buildings of Congress and the memorials-but the ghetto. Gilliam is basically a low-level politician. At the beginning of the movie we find him being a hero by saving a woman who is in a house that's going to be detonated. After that his fortune as politician fails and he's kicked out of his office and evicted, plus his fiance splits with him. 
Meanwhile, deep in the bureacratic offices of Congress, there are some big political changes in the Democratic Party after their candidate dies in a crash. The head of the party looks for a scapegoat to run for president so that he could lose. Somehow, and in an act of sheer coincidence, they stumble upon Gilliam. They pick him to be president and the rest is the movie where Gilliam tries to win office.
This movie is supposed to be a comedy, but most of the comedy is too obvious. Chris Rock is the main attraction in this movie, and he does have many funny quotes. The movie as a whole has lots of hilarious dialogue. The movie is basically a spoof and a satire of the political system today, and I think it does that job well. They poke fun at many of the recent political events. Chris Rock has many memorable phrases. When he runs for president he quickly becomes the most unconventional one. He ditches the prepared speeches and starts talking impromptu and from the heart, using some vulgar language while he's at it. This movie did have many funny moments, though, and it's good for a few laughs. Bernie Mac stars as the running mate with Chris Rock, and together they form a hilarious team. I think this movie is funny and worth seeing, but I wouldn't recommend buying it unless you're a serious Chris Rock and Bernie Mac fan, otherwise, just go rent it.