It's funny because it's true.

It's difficult to watch because it's true.

It rings true because...you get the idea.

There are basically three categories of negative reviews for "The Break-Up:"

Misled - "I thought this would be a zany, farcical look at a couple who can't make things work. It wasn't. It was...SAD! I hate this movie for failing to provide the banal escapism I crave."

Naive - "Incompatible people never stay in relationships. You only ever fall in love with the person who's perfect for you. Furthermore, if people get along well at the start of the relationship, they'll never grow contemptuously familiar, fall out of puppy love, or change at all. I hate this movie because these two never could have gotten together in the first place."

Lucky - "Based on my past relationship experience, I know that all relationships end amicably and mutually. Even if a relationship has to end, there's no need for vicious mudslinging or manipulation. Men are caring and selfless and women are straightforward and realistic. I know this because I've never been in a fight like those depicted in the movie."

I used to be lucky. Then I turned 18 and downgraded to naive. Thankfully, I was done with that phase before watching "The Break-Up," because while I was misled about the tone of the movie, I was able to recalibrate my expectations and enjoy it for what it is - a painfully true-to-life look at why relationships fail, and what it looks like when they do.

Watch this movie for the excellent bar conversation between Vaughn and John Favreau, a contemporary classic in improv dialogue. Watch it for the lemon fight. Watch it for catharsis after a tough break up. Watch it with your partner for the sake of a good laugh at how closely the on-screen hatred mirrors the darkest moments in any couple's story.

Don't watch it if you want to escape. Or forget. Or kid yourself that love and hate are anything but two sides of the same coin.

And, for the love of God, don't watch it if you want to stay naive or lucky. Your day will come in time. Try not to rush it.