This was the 20th annual WWE Royal Rumble PPV event, and WWE really outdid themselves. IT has a very decnt undercard, but the Rumble is whats so amazing about this PPV. This is one of the best PPVs since One Night Stand 2006 and it really ranks high up there. The lower-card wasn't the best it ever has been, but it was better than 2006, 2003, and 2002 for sure.

Hardy Boyz Vs. MNM
This was a good way to end a great ag team feud. This match wasn't as good as their December to Dismember match, but was still a great tag team match. What makes it even better was the fact that it wasn't for titles, but it was an actual tag team feud. The crowd could've made this match better however. 8/10

ECW Championship match: Bobby Lashley Vs. Test
This match was pretty terrible. Why wasn't it an extreme rules match? It's for the freaking ECW title! Anyways. I've always thought Test was a very great wrestler, and I know bobby Lashley is a great athlete, but this match was just terrible. These 2 do NOT work well together at all. Thank God it was short. 4/10

World Heavyweight Championship: Batista Vs. Mr. Kennedy
Batista was once a great wrestler, but that was back in 2005. This guy is still somehow going off his WM21 momentum, which is not only stale but is just not great at all. He hasn't been a good wrestler since the injury, and is stale and boring to watch. Kennedy, however, I beleive is the future of this business, and really knows how to put on a great match, but even Kennedy can't make Batista look good. It was good because of Kennedy, it wasn't great because of Batista. 7/10

Last Man Standing for the WWE title: John Cena Vs. Umaga
How much longer is this guy seriously gonna hold the strap? I mean come on! It's been the better part of going on 3 years! He is stale, and really needs to go back to being heel. This was a very great match however. Umaga is a machine, and Cena can put on good PPV matches. This was a brutal match, but it could have been way better if it had more weapon usage, and if Umaga bled and sold the choke better. 9/10

Royal Rumble Match
This will go down as my favorite Royal Rumble match, and I know exactly where i'm coming from. I've been watching Royal Rumbles since 1995, and I've even seen 1992, but this way outshines ever Royal Rumble to date. It takes the best of old school, ECW, WWE, and even WCW and throws it in making it the most star studded Rumble ever. Very great way to do the 20th annual Royal Rumble. And what made it even better was the fact that there was no run-in half time show (Kat Miller, Honkey Tonk Man) and no stupid celebrity appearance (Drew Carry) but just pure WWE superstars putting on the best Rumble ever.

Some highlights were 6 former world champions in the ring at once, Finlay going 30 minutes, Edge going 45 minutes and being in the final 4, Big Vis elimination. I only Wish RVD would have lasted longer. I was pulling for Edge or RVD to win, but Taker coming in at number 30, and then having an epic 8 minute brawl with HBK as the final 2 was just as good with me. 10/10

I strongly recomend this DVD simply for the rumble match, and the LMS match is a very great addition. I just wish the extras included a video of the previous rumbles, or something about it being the 20th rumble.

Extras include:
Rated RKO Vs. Cena/HBK from Raw the next night (8/10 match)
Vince and Donald Trump
Kane and Taker in the back