This is one of the best movies I've ever seen.  I admit, I love Mothra.  She stars in her debut here.  Before I mention Mothra, I wish to emphasize the rare, beautiful music which fits so well in this film.  In a way, the Mothra movies are musicals!  The Peanuts star and sing as the fairies, and they are so lovely, quaint and charming!  Really all the characters are so enjoyable, reporters and villains too!  I can't say enough good things about this film.  The story is easy to understand:  Mothra's flapping around will wreck some towns, but it's plain she is only getting impatient.  Who took her fairies from Infant Island?  Better let them go!  This is her motive, she really doesn't have Godzilla's foolish, destructive streak, nor Rodan's paranoid hatred of airplanes.
It's easy to love Mothra.  Mothra is sleepy.  Mothra is cute, even when she is in her worm-like babyhood.  She cares about people, but it's foolish to think of her as a kindly servant of man.  She can remain callously disinterested as her natives are gunned down wholesale, or imprisoned and enslaved.  This includes the twin fairies!  She chooses when, and if, to fight.  When she fights, she's wild!  Mothra may be weaker than the other monsters, but she doesn't know it!  She snaps, claws and whips her wings in a fury!  She fights savagely and has a terrific temper!  Even when she is getting thrashed on the ground, she won't let go!  Mothra protects her babies.  Fortunately, when Godzilla sees her getting thrashed, he cannot abide it and will wade in to help her.  Oddly, Godzilla himself has no problem beating on Mothra, sort of like a tabeloid marriage.  Still, she ONLY wins fights by teaming up with her sister (when they are babies) or another monster.  Thus teamwork is important in Mothra; it's the way stronger enemies are overcome.
Good news--There's more Mothra movies!  If you love Mothra and the fairies be sure to see them in Godzilla vs. the sea monster, Ghidorah, and Mothra vs. Godzilla.  These four films really need to be watched carefully to learn the monsters.  Then watch Mothra's later films such as Rebirth of Mothra I/II.  You will clearly see and perhaps share my disappointment in her new, odd part she has to play in the monster world.  But we can be thankful for these four gems, and her first film shows Mothra at her sparkling best!