When I read reviews, I often find that people say they saw "results" with out explaining what these "results" are.  Let me prelude by saying, I am in my late 20's, within normal weight and BMI range, and for the most part I eat decent (could be healthier).  My weight loss goals at any given time have always been less than 10 pounds.  I am an intermediate but inconsistent exerciser and have substantial experience with pilates  but not yoga.  I look good when covered up, but once summer rolls around, I turn into a self conscious woman.  My major problem areas are  my rear and thighs! I have a few dimples, they are a little flabby, and most workouts I try don't seem to be effective in toning!
I have owned this DVD for over a year now.  Unfortunately I am not always consistent in working out, I am a doctoral student with an extremely busy schedule! However, when I actually consistently do the workouts, I see changes in my body in no time!  Currently I have been using it for almost 3 weeks, (approximately 19 days), and doing the workouts Tues, Thurs, and Sunday!  During this time, I have not done any cardio, and my diet is still the same (lots of put together meals like sandwiches, fruits, salads, t.v dinners, and lots of ice-cream).  Looking in the mirror I see definition in my stomach. It is flatter, and I do not have that stomach bulge when I am wearing my tight jeans and my external obliques are visible.  Also, my butt is more defined and rounded, and the dimples are gone! My inner and outer thighs, are more toned (but no where near where I want them to be). Overall there is less jiggle!  I have a pair of shorts I use as a measure of success, and I am pleased to report that I am wearing them now, and ready to walk out the door in them.  In the past when I have done this video for longer than 3 months, my whole body transforms, my butt, thighs and stomach look amazing, and my results are quicker and more visible, in comparison to my friends who go to the gym (though this may just simply be an issue of different body types, metabolism etc).
As others have mentioned it is low impact and you might feel like you are not working hard, especially for seasoned exercisers, but you just have to keep with it, and you will see how amazing you will look.  Last summer, my boyfriend, a very fit personal trainer did the routine with me, and was sore for days to come!
I highly recommend this dvd.  I should add that if your goal is to lose weight, you have to add cardio! This alone will not be enough!