This movie intertwines a performance of Beethoven's Eroica with acting meant to give a sense of "atmosphere".  The result is quite interesting, as it takes us beyond just the music to consider the artistic creation.

For example, Beethoven's deafness of his later years is introduced to a limited extent:  At this time in his life, Beethoven was beginning to experience some hearing-impairment.  However, we can also interpret this in the context of the movie as symbolic.  Certainly, music as an auditory experience allows us to see deafness in a great composer as indicating that of music represents an internal and intellectual experience.

If we see the "deafness" as metaphoric, then we can take it to indicate Beethoven's failure to consider the corruption of power that might be part of the reality of Napoleon's rise to power.  One recognizes a subtle underlying randomness:  Had Napoleon declared himself emperor at an earlier point in time, Beethoven might not have been motivated to produce the deep work of art represented by Eroica.

Certainly, Eroica was presented as "for" the aristocracy, and an aristocracy for which Beethoven labored, but for which in many respects, he merely represented another craftsman, like one of the musicians.  One was struck, in this way, by the few for whom such music was of interest.  One of the fascinating aspects that is communicated in the film was that while Beethoven's genius was recognized, the importance of his music was not fully appreciated.

Overall, the performance, both the music and acting, was one of subtlety, and I found that, at least for me, the little background drama in the midst of Beethoven's beautiful music, did not detract, but added poignant and thoughtful elements to his powerful music.  I can understand that for some, this departure into fantasy and away from historical accuracy might seem offensive.  However, I found it quite effective, as part of an overall "framework" in which to present a performance of the music.