Being from the U.K may place me at too much distance too fully take on board the depth of feeling and polemic debate which this movie produces. It makes me rather sad to think that people consider this movie a "good and accurate" history lesson (note that the "good" tellingly preceedes "accurate"). Of course aspects of the film can be substantiated historically, in fact Griffith went to enormous length to consider historic "details" such as buttons on coats and types of thermometers used, not to mention the stunning recreation of battle scenes. Historical accuracy is never the summ of such arcane parts however.  As a source for attitudes, tastes and discourses (much contested even then) around 1915 the film is a superb source, and it is for this, and also the visionary formal qualities of the film that it recieves 4 stars. On the subject of the separation of form and content, such a binary is alawys somewhat illusory, but used carefully and pointedly should be illuminating.  Finally, and making use of that binary, the content is quite indefensible. Saturating the film is the popular social mythology (rendered with considerable paranoia) of the rapcious  lewd black buck, and the pristine, virginal white woman. Such a discourse effectively could deny the masculinity of the black man, and simultaneously (more subtly) keep the white woman in her place also. This far from benign configuration effectively propped up a enduing legacy of lynchings and racial violence. The black woman is conspicuously absent in the film (apart from the one dimensional and, in this case significantly, asexual Mammy). This silence itself speaks volumes about the legacy of systematic and unhindered, unreported, unaknowledged sexual violence commited by white men toward black women.  By all means try and watch the film through the eyes of a 1915 movie goer, try and read it enbedded in its context and contemporary history, but this is in no way incompatable with a recognition of its partial and overtly ideological representations of History, Race and Gender. P.S Racism does not presupose racial hatred, though that is often its form. It merely posits the existense of certain key, "essential" (biologised) racial characteristics, that characterise, structure and in many cases limit and demarkate the social potencialities of certain more or less immutable "races". Thus racism can be subtle, appear to be divorced from any extreme "hatred", and propagated in a seemingly calm, collected and rational way (see other reviews in this section). Thus i don't think Griffith's paternalistic view of the black "race" can really be called non-racist.