Having bought the Heaven and Hell cassette back in 1980, I've been familiar with the Dio lineup of Black Sabbath ever since. I've  always loved Ronnie James Dio's vocals both with Rainbow and Sabbath. I preferred their studio sound, though, not being real impressed with the "Live Evil" release back in 1982. I though the "Dehumanizer" comeback had some good songs, but something seemed to be lacking in that recording.

Well, after seeing the 1 hour long promo on VH1 Classic, I was VERY impressed with what I heard and saw...and I knew I would purchase this DVD. First I'll get this out of the way...as another reviewer mentioned, the 5.1 setting is flawed. There is no center channel, the rear surround speakers are barely activated, and the bass response is weaker than on the stereo 2.0 setting, so unless you have an infrasound subwoofer, and you turn your surround speakers WAY UP, it's best to use the 2.0 setting. This is the ONLY DVD that I would do this on.

OK back to it! The performance and sound on this are superb! Dio's vocals have matured, but he sounds positively amazing. And he is a captivating frontman, as always, as he stalks the stage. Geezer Butler and Tony Iommi are perfect, and what an amazingly powerful and charismatic drummer Vinnie Appice is! These guys have the talent and charisma to grab your attention right from the first song, and leave you wanting more after the almost 2 hour set. I love the way Dio shakes hands with the crowd with his big appreciative smile. Wonderful! This is perfect chemistry in action for sure, and I hope these guys release a studio "album" after this tour is over.

They play selections from their 3 studio albums, and then add 2 of the 3 new songs as well, and all I can say is why haven't you ordered this DVD yet? If you're not real familiar with the Dio lineup, get this anyway. And, as I usually say when I review a truly classic band DVD or CD...all you young kids check this out! Bands like this are a dying breed, and once they're gone, we will only have their recordings, so get this now and see what you've been missing!