Often overlooked, Robert Altman's 'The Long Goodbye' is arguably one of THE films exemplifying the 1970s and, although far less dark, ranks alongside Antonioni's 'The Passenger'.

Propelling Marlowe into the opulent, 'promise' of the west coast 1970s USA, Altman allows the story to unfold around a classic murder, mystery story and the stunning cast help to create an atmosphere of parochial 'goings-on' that can subsequently be seen in the works of David Lynch, Tarrantino and, more recently, the 'Sopranos'.  The late, great Sterling Hayden gives an unforgetable, bullying, volatile King Lear-like performance as the ageing, impotent, alcoholic writer, and Mark Rydell's 'dangerous' violent character anticipates that which Martin Scorsese and Joe Pesci create latterly in Goodfellas/Casino. Moreover, there's an uncredited cameo appearance of a moustachioed Arnold (Schwarzenneger) as a 'heavy'.

However its Elliiot's Gould's brilliant (Oscar deserving) performance as Philip Marlowe that helps to  seal this film's status into the canon of GREAT films.
Gould creates a sharp, amiable, chain-smoking, wise-cracking 70s detective whose 'quirky-alone' livestyle allow him the freedom to give his own Chandleresque, talking-to-himself dialogue (...'it's alright by me...') whilst interacting with a diverse range of characters within the narrative. With respect to this, there's the continual variation of the haunting melody, 'The Long Goodbye' that is re-worked throughout the film thus floating the narrative structure within changing and moving events and themes yet anchoring it to the overall thread of the story itself.

Altman's direction is that of a genius at work: the back-drop of the oceanic tug and wash of the tide as seen through the windows of the seductive though manipulative Eilleen Wade's windows (Nina Van Pallandt), together with slightly surreal and erotic appartment  setting of Marlowe's flat make this film unforgetable. There's also the tension associated with the 'journeys' to Mexico: a theme used in more recent (great) films including 'Lone Star'; 'Traffic'; and, 'The Three burials of Melquiades  Estrada'. Who can deny the impact of the opening 'cat' scene and the final 'chapter' of the film  set within the avenue of trees; the 'oh-too-late' figure of Eileen Wade heading in the opposite direction to Marlowe who ironically celebrates his parochial sense of closure by playing the minature harmonica.

 If ever a film rated as a '6' for special merit and sheer enjoyment then this is one of the elite few deserving of such an award! I urge you to watch or re-watch this film and savour a work of pure genius. As a commentator and fan of such a seminal film, I can only hope that Robert Altman and-or Elliot Gould can provide a commentary-enhanced (Criterion edition )DVD.