This stand alone extended episode fills in some blanks on the whereabouts of Pegasus's original crew, which the creators thought they needed to show. I didn't feel such a need because IMO the two-parter from season 2 was both satisfying story-wise and an interesting drama in its own right.

Nevertheless, they made Razor, which IMO is one of the best 1.5 hours of BSG to date. The story is poignant and Acting is spot on, both from the Galactica's crew but most importantly from the newcomers. Centering the story around previously unseen character of Kendra Shaw (Stephanie Jacobsen) might seem risky at first but the result was great.
From a pure dramatic standpoint it's probably the best BSG has ever been. And the way they showed this tragic backstory (no happy ending for this one, sorry folks!) with some heavy character development (although not perfect) deserves a praise (as if they needed more praise... LOL).

I hated the character of Adm. Cain (Michelle Forbes) and how she treated people. Thought she was too tough in season 2 but still could understand her reasoning. In Razor she is mad and ruthless (I must admit I haven't looked at the extended cut yet, leaving that one for laters with the commentary on, of course... and hearing that they sugarcoated the character a bit in added scenes... who knows...).
However, it's good they didn't push her that far in "Pegasus", which would rightfully (IMO) deny Adama an honest dilemma what to do with her other than terminate on the spot.

This episode in a way reminds me of an episode of Voyager where they showed an evil counterpart of the crew, with evil Janeway at the helm... but that one had a noticeable comedic touch (regardless if on purpose or not), and it was obvious those characters were caricatures. Here, Cain, Shaw, and some other characters are very serious indeed. Character of Fisk is very well placed in a sense that his reactions to Cain/Shaw's actions often reflect what would be viewer's reactions... which makes the whole thing easier, too.

I didn't check special features yet for not having seen season 3 yet I fear they may contain spoilers.