As has already been pointed out, this movie is incredibly predictable (like many great movies are).  That is one of the wonderful things about a good story.  It doesn't have to have lots of plot twists to keep you interested.  As movie-viewers we simply agree to suspend our disbelief for a while and pretend that all of this is possible.

The parallels with "Its a Wonderful Life"  are clear and obvious:  The man finds out how his life would be different if he had made one simple choice differently in the past (or present).  It is a fun little game to play.

But I think this movie goes beyond that.  I think it also hearkens, in an allegorical way, to a man's mid-life crisis.  Jack Campbell is as successful as he could ever dream of being.  He has money, women adore him (at least some do), he has lots of power, a great apartment, everything he could want.  But it is somehow empty.

Of course the movie takes place at Christmas (the time of year when many people's thoughts turn to family/friends) and he realizes that his life, while successful is inherently empty.  His "boss" ("Peter Lassiter") is what Jack will become when he is older: "a cold heartless man who only cares about money" and how to get more of it.  He secretly admires an underling "yes man" ("Alan") as someone who, while not as successful, does have a family for whom he cares deeply.

One night Jack experiences a "glimpse" (fantasy?) about what his life would be like if he had gotten married to his college sweetheart.  The new life he enters is full of surprises (for him, at least).  He is forced to live like the other half ("I'll get a funnel cake.  It will be the highlight of my week").  Part of him yearns for his old life of excess and easy luxuries, but as the movie evolves he begins to see the advantages of his new existence in suburban New Jersey and simply takes "vacations" into his "former life" in the form of watching CNBC when his wife wants to make love and other similar situations.  By the end of the "glimpse" he wants nothing to do with that life of power and money.  He has found fulfillment.  His fantasies no longer interest him as much as his life with his wife and kids.  He lets go of that part of his life.  In fact, at the end he admits that "nothing ever felt more real."

If you can get past the cliche moments, predictable nature and stereotyped characters (his best friend is as stereotyped as they come) this is a touching movie about what happens because of one simple choice and what we really care about in life.

Just a little side note:  I thought the casing was odd.  Every time I watch this movie I think, "Nicholas Cage and Tea Leoni are trying their hardest to be Mel Gibson playing Jack Campbell and Meg Ryan playing Kate Reynolds," but that's just me.