It's hard to say just what point of Angel really started my rather ridiculous obsession with it.  Whether it was the really awesome dark story, or the fact that there are really cool characters around every corner, something about this show just drives you crazy!!  With every minute of every episode, you get more deeply and deeply involved in the story and the life of the characters.  It's a show you could watch all day and never get bored of, and it's so exciting you could practically watch it forever.
With the incredibly deep story of the tortured soul that is Angel, it's amazing that other tv shows even exist!  Angel is just one unforgetable moment after another as you move closer and closer to the end of the story, a thing that, unfortunatly, is now sooner than ever.  Even tho this is only the first season, it is still more that enought to quench your thirst for a good time.  And all the extras are really great.  From the behind the scenes with David Boreanaz, to the biographies of all the individual characters, these dvds are truly Angel heaven!
And who can resist that classic Angel charm?!  From Angel diving into the wrong car in the first episode, to seeing evil Spike make fun of him a few episodes later.  Angel is one of the few truly funny dramas out there.
It's really fun to see how the series and Angel himself have evolved over the years.  In the first season, he is this adorable non-sociable hero who will do anything to save someone.  And now in this latest season, he gets turned into a bloody puppet!!!!  Yea, the series has gone thru a lot of changes over the years, but it's pretty obvious that the main charm of the series is still quite intact.
If your a big time fan of this series like me, I think it's safe to say that you were more than a little upset when they announced the early termination of the show.  They don't know what they're doing!!  Angel was awesome from the very first episode where you find him drowning his sorrows at the local bar.  If they think that 5 years is enough Angel for everyone, they have another thing comming!!!  All I have to say is that I'm really going to miss it.
What started as a spin-off of Buffy the vampire slayer, has really come a long way over the years.  But rather than become old in my mind, the series has just dug itself deeper into my heart.  It's one of the most fun and intellegent series' out there and there will never be another capable of replacing it.  It may not be for everyone, but it sure got me, hook line and sinker!!