Let me start that this movie isn't back. It's ok. It worth renting to watch Timon and Pumba's take on the original story. But nothing on their take is really that interesting enough to make this dvd worth owning. Plus, like another reviewer said most of the questions that they answer are ones you never asked in the first place. For example, the one that answers why the animals bowl at the beginning when Simba is shown. Now the reason nobody ask that question was because the conclusion they came to make perfect sense. They were bowling out of respect for the prince and future king. So therefore this answer not only make total sense but is expected of the animals. So this question didn't need to be answer. Second example when the animals fell down at the end of the "I Can't Wait to Be King" song nobody wonder why they fell. Once again the reasonable conclusion is because one of the animals lose their balance and cause the other animals to fall. In this case it wasn't true but it interesting to see that Pumba cause it. But you don't need to that question, because you never ask it. The questions that this film answered that you probulary did ask was where did Timon and Pumba come from? How did they meet?  I happy to say the film show you that thus answering the questions. On a side note here, this film did answer one question that I alway had about the original lion king. In the original, all three Simba, Timon and Pumba were in a desert and suddenly they in a jungle setting. I always whoa where that jungle come and how did they get there? Well in this film it show that jungle was right next to the desert spot where they found simba. Thus one of my questions was answered. However while I'm reviewing the film I might as well point on huge mistake that

make one part of the original film not make sense. In this film, you see that Timon witiness Simba and Nala's fight in which Simba's storms off. But in the original film he later telling Nala when she asking him where Simba is? That he though Simba was  with her. Now in the original film this make perfect sense because according to that film he wasn't present. But now this film show that he was there and did see the fight. So my question is if he saw Simba storming off after their fight, why would he tell Nala later that he thought Simba was with her when he a couple of hour eariler he saw Simba leave Nala after their fight. It make no sense. This destroys one of the parts of the original film.

You know if Disney was going a movie in between 1 and 2. They could this retelling to help explain where Zira come from and also how Kovu was born and why Scar chose him. If you don't know who Zira is she the villian in Lion King 2. This film could have  use to clear how she fit in the story. This could have help clear this issue for Lion King 2. However they didn't so what are you going to do.

My opinion on this film, this film is worth renting to watch Timon and Pumba take on the original story, but there nothing here that make it worth owning. My advice, rent it and see if you like it, but don't buy it because it not worth owning.