Ah, what can be said about this film?  A LOT....

It is, first and foremost, a retelling of the classic tale of Cinderella, but infused with historical fiction and factual characters.

You've read the plot points above, and I don't need to go over them again...  The movie, however, is spectacular...!  The acting is just about top notch, with excellent performances by Drew Barrymore (as Danielle, aka Cindersoot/Cinderella) and Dougray Scott (as the crown prince of France, Henry).  Exceptional is the word to describe Anjelica Houston's performance as Baroness Rodmilla de Ghent, the "evil" step-mother.

Great performances are turned in by nearly all the supporting characters, including an interesting twist on the "evil" step-sisters, Maguerite and Jacqueline...  But in this retelling - only one of the sisters is truly mean and spiteful - a vengeful witch of a girl...  Jacqueline, however, being somewhat plainer than her blond bombshell of a sister, is far more accepting of Danielle and others as the story unfolds.

Also a surprise is Richard O'Brian (of Rocky Horror and Shock Treatment fame) as an evil and covetous local baron/lord who sets his sites on Danielle and won't take NO for an answer - until he's threatened with becoming skewered by Danielle...

A truly humorous scene is the wedding of Prince Henry is just about to wed a wailing and thoroughly unhappy princess of Spain - who sobs and cries and wails throughout the ceremony - also lamenting that she cannot marry the one she loves, and is, instead, forced into a royal arrangement between her parents and Henry's parents.

The film is also peppered with great lines of dialog that are delivered with precision and the proper tone, right down to Baroness Rodmilla demurely asking how long she may have to live, after her treachories are discovered.

With inputs from Leonardo da Vinci, the King & Queen of France (Francis and his wife), and a band of Gypsies, not to mention the household staff of Danielle's familial home, we get the "Happily ever after" ending we all love and care about...