There may be some eyebrows raised over the decision to release this movie in the UK, France, Germany and practically everywhere else in the world before the USA.  I'm not sure I understand it fully myself, but I can see that to show it first in the USA could have been risky.  Three-quarters of the way through the film, several of the 'girls' go to Hollywood where some of them don't have an altogether wonderful time.  I guess the producers wanted to establish some international momentum for the movie before letting it loose on an American public who could regard it as anti-tinseltown.
The movie itself stays pretty close to the real-life story -- even the classic quote about "no front-bottoms" is faithfully melded into the strong script.  Julie Walters and John Alderton put in superb performances as the loving husband and wife soon to be parted by leukemia.  Helen Mirren is also very good in her part, and I guess I wasn't the only male, in what I have to admit was a mainly female audience, who was glad that Mirren had revoked her previous commitment never to remove her clothes on screen again!
In its wonderful depiction of the rugged, hilly landscape, the movie should do wonders for the Yorkshire Tourist Board.  But it will probably be less helpful for recruitment to the Women's Institute, even though the WI is backing this movie on their Web site.  The WI is seen as being endlessly concerned with trivia and with protecting its wholesome reputation.  (You will get very fed up with piano renditions of 'Jerusalem' by the end!)
What flaws does the film have?  Well, there's no climax in the place that you'd normally expect it.  Some loose ends which should have been tied up don't get tied up -- for instance, do the girls eventually take off their clothes again for the Hollywood ad?
As a concept, the plot comes dangerously close to disappearing up its own end.  At one level, the story says "This calendar must have been a great achievement because a film was made about it."  But this is that film.  So, if the film hadn't been made, would it have been such a great achievement?  The scriptwriters are plainly aware of this paradox, so there is plenty of self-doubt that plagues the characters by the end.
Several of the original calendar girls refused to have anything to do with the movie, which was in part financed by Disney.  I can see their point -- if the media world is alien to you, it's hard to get involved without feeling sullied -- but ultimately the world is a slightly better place for this movie having been made, and I don't know anyone who hasn't enjoyed seeing it.