For years I have had questions about Never Say Never Again that remained unanswered for lack of special features or director's commentary to explain some of the elements in this film. Finally, we hear from the director and a Bond historian about many of the backstories about how this renegade Bond film was made, and the many challenges the producers had to overcome to complete this film. I never realized just how much of a nail-biter it was for the producers to crank out a coherent movie due to all the script, logistical, budget, and legal issues that dogged the film every step of the way.
But most of all, I really wanted to understand how the AWFUL musical score got added to this film. It was really a by-product of the low-budget and chaotic schedule to get the film completed that such a counterproductive score was added. Irvin Kirschner did not approve of the score that Michel Legrand produced because it failed to convey the proper on-screen emotion, but it was too late in the production cycle and there was no money available to commission a new score. It was interesting to note that Legrand has more history and comfort writing songs than a theatrical score, and it showed clearly in this film. It was a huge editing challenge to mix and move the music that they had to scenes of the movie.

To my surprise and disappointment, the director and some other crew members had wanted Howard Shore to create the music, but some unnamed other producers were against it for reasons unexplained (probably money). If only a more mainstream composer had created the score, it would have lifted Never Say Never Again to a whole new level. The irritating music is a constant negative throughout the movie and undermines scene after scene. The opening title sequence is marred by the terrible title track, and the main NSNA theme is so melancholy and of such poor sound quality that it gives the whole movie a B-movie feel.

Another fact revealed in the commentary is how ruthlessly the Broccolis fought this movie in court. They literally dragged Jack Schwartzmann into court almost daily during production of NSNA to dispute script changes that the Broccolis claimed were outside the scope of the allowable screenplay. Somehow, the Broccolis were getting information about all the script changes as they happened to fuel their complaints in court.

I appreciate the candor that Kirschner relates in the commentary about the musical score issues, and some other production problems, that explain some of the forces that kept NSNA from being a truly great film. At least I feel better knowing they tried to make the best film they could, and indeed, made a better film than they had any right to considering the constant budget and legal issues that dogged the film.

With the exception of Kim Basinger, who looks great in this film, the actors did a superb job in this movie. I think this was Sean's best performance as Bond besides From Russia with Love. And as others have noted, he looked much more fit in this film than in Diamonds are Forever 12 years before. He deserves a lot of credit for returning to Bond and delivering a performance with the right balance of strength, wit, and acknowledgement of age.

Oh, and don't miss Rowan Atkinson as Bond's contact in Nassau. Mr. Bean was never so funny.