Wow, I was floored to see how many gave this documentary 5 stars. The ignorance of the American people is stunning. The idea that we can give the same power to the US Government that the Federal Reserve has now, is ludicrous. All you have to do is look at history and over and over again when the government controls the money supply and they decide to inflate the currency to pay for wars etc, we are back in the same joke condition that we are in now. Who do you suppose printed the Mark that the German's used? Worthless as a greenback was the term used because the QUANTITY became so large that the value dropped to NOTHING! Who printed those "greenbacks"? The reason the "defect" in the Constitution exists is because Judge Roger Sherman who wrote "A Caveat Against Injustice, an Inquiry into The Evils of a Fluctuating Medium of Exchange" was instrumental in placing the monetary clauses into the United States Constitution. He saw the EVILS created by the separate governments of each colony printing their own paper currency when he was paid off at par with currency that was inflated by one state over another. The clauses are, NO STATE SHALL MAKE ANY THING OTHER THAN GOLD AND SILVER COIN A TENDER IN PAYMENT OF DEBT. And CONGRESS SHALL HAVE THE POWER TO COIN MONEY AND REGULATE THE VALUE THERE OF. Why did he do so? Because he realized that PAPER money was a FLUCTUATING medium of exchange. Unfortunately, books like "Money, the Greatest Hoax on Earth" by Merrill Jenkins are out of print and haven't been read by very many people. The MONEY power was SUPPOSED to be in the hands of the PEOPLE through a barter system of Gold and Silver coin. Do you think that LINCOLN could have financed the war if the money power hadn't been stripped from the people through the use of Unconstitutional paper currency? This documentary is so screwed up it is pitiful. Gold and Silver coin can't be created out of thin air. If gold and silver were being used, the value could never DECREASE unless someone figured out a way to create it out of thin air. If WE the PEOPLE controlled the money we can withdraw our financial support when we use the PETITION of redress that is in the 1st Amendment. I frankly can't believe that so many people think that by changing who the boss of the money is that somehow we will be in better condition. Bull. If someone wants to learn about money, they need to read Judge Roger Sherman's book, do a search it is there on the web for free. This is a totally unacceptable answer to the money problem. SOME THING of VALUE has to be used as money. And that SOME THING through out history has typically been Gold and Silver coin. As for tally sticks? Seriously? I wouldn't recommend this video to anyone who seriously wants to know about a money system that could work. Read Credit is Debt is Slavery by Monetary realist, Bruce G. McCarthy, do a search it is there to be read and you will see and understand why this idea that this video supports will not float. BTW...my copy would only play on my computer. It wouldn't play on my DVD player hooked to my television or my Blue Ray player. If there is going to be ANY money, it has to be SOME THING of value, not paper "backed" by anything. Paper is the problem. Silver itself would be fine and Gold is ok for larger transactions. We don't NEED paper money at all! Sure you might not be able to make "$50" an hour but what difference would it make if you made 50cents in silver and hour and a new car costs $500 in stead of $50,000. It would be relative. We need to USE gold and silver AS money, not paper "backed" by gold and silver. NO ONE will ever know what is "behind" the gold and silver. If we started bartering NOW with gold and silver it would get the government out of the money system as well as anyone else.