I just finished watching this movie and want to recommend it, but not give the story away.  Partly, it was interesting to me, because I was in the Navy and served on a LPH.  Antwone served on a LPA, the modern equivalent, however there was much more to hold my interest than that mere coincidence.
I found this movie refreshingly intelligent and strong in substance.  It was strong in story line, and completely devoid of gratuitous violence.  I must say, that it is my opinion, that it carried a story line that is not in popular acceptance in our society, in our government, or in the domestic violence industry today. 
I will dare to ask you this question.  If the plot had been the same, but Antwone had instead been a female character, and the women in his childhood had instead been male characters, would the minuscule notoriety that this movie received in Hollywood have been different?
I highly recommend this movie to everyone who seeks a balanced perspective about violence in today's families.  It presents a searing truth that is all too infrequently told.  I especially recommend this movie to those who hold to the popular view of domestic violence as an exclusively male on female problem (the popular viewpoint that is so prevalent in that closed minded domestic violence industry).  Be sure to notice how Antwone's father dies.  This movie gives a whole new perspective to the gender dynamics of what goes on in those situations.
Unlike today's domestic violence industry, this movie does not demonize and condemn an entire gender.  Antwone is able to find many positive, non violent men and women who are well balanced, not the least of which is his girl friend.  The closing scene is a reaffirmation of the power of men and women of good heart to come together in loving support of a battered man who has been cruelly abused.  As the death of his best friend in a robbery so graphically and contrastingly points out, Antwone is truly a lucky man in our society to be able to find the shelter he needs to help make him whole again.
I salute Antwone Fisher for the courage to tell his story, and I especially salute Denzil Washington for the courage to make an unpopular, but truthful picture, that runs counter to the politically correct view of domestic violence that our society holds.
Sincerely, Ray Blumhorst