We are presented with a story about an Island, the word and its meaning should be considered within the show's mythology; an eye land, the land of the eye, the land of perception, the eye of the mind. The series deals heavily with perception; perception and interpretation. What you get out of the series really depends on what you put into (or are prepared to put into) it. Lost poses all the questions worth asking, literally, everything regarding the universe, consciousness and time. The viewer was the unseen character who saw what the Island saw, the writers kept that thread throughout the entire show. Even if you decide, after watching, that you did not enjoy Lost you could at least investigate some of the literary references; Lord of the Flies by William Golding, Everything That Rises Must Converge by Flannery O'Connor, or Island by Aldous Huxley, to name but a few.

Lost was an incredible journey. It was beautifully complex, the ending was symmetrical, reflective and deeply moving on so many levels (emotionally and intellectually) that you need to spend some serious time to consider its meanings. I do not want to give away too much detail but you will (perhaps) find the mirroring of Season Six and the flash sideways particulary intriguing, watch the scenes in the bamboo field and the church very closely. Lost made us think, it made us look at just how deep and complex we are despite the vacuous nature of modern life, it made us think about our perception of time and of consciousness and of our place within both.

Many of the answers were subtle, some were handed out on a plate (some were hated when given) and some require an element of hard work (you have to earn them) and independent thinking. The show is a puzzle and needs to be pieced together but it is all there. I fear many people watched The End and after about three seconds decided it was rubbish (it was really that one scene many people objected to but the church is used as symbolism and as a platform for a moment of transcendance, a moment beyond religion(s), beyond the notions of heaven and time but it was not the first time we were shown this church in Lost...) there is a lot more going on in the flash sideways than mere purgatory. Think of the Light at the heart of the Island, "It is the source; life, death, rebirth." - What element surrounds and ties all these together and is at the heart of the show? Watch LA X again; we are shown the detonation of the bomb twice, that is for a very specific reason(s) - there are two outcomes, both real, think about it. Lost kept the sci-fi elements all the way through the sixth season and blended them with elements faith but you really need to give it some serious thought. I saw the flash sideways as a real place, another dimension related to quantum physics and multi-reality consciousness, a mirror universe inhabited by metaphysical imprints of the characters created in the flash of the jughead detonation and that is the real beauty of the flash sideways - they are left purposely ambiguous.

Key episodes in this Sixth and Final Season are Ab Aeterno, (one of the best in the entire series) Across The Sea,  Happily Ever After and Lighthouse. These episodes are rife with hidden and open meanings. The finale, indeed the whole series is open to interpretation but that is the whole point. Such a literary show needs to be approached on the level(s) it was written.

Everything did indeed happen for a reason, every event led to another, so nothing is rendered 'meaningless' as many have claimed of the finale. The crash, the flashbacks - the linear timeline - the flash forwards, (there is the key to the whole show right there; 'time' and the perception and the manipulation of time) the time travel, jughead, the flash sideways, they are all related. Everything you need to know about Lost is inside the show but sometimes you have to dig deep and unearth the treasures by yourself. The main mystery of the Island was revealed in 'Ab Aeterno' and the nature of the heart of the Island within 'Across The Sea' but many people did not like or accept these answers but they were given.

Much of the fabric of Lost is surreal and that is intentional. Certain people were looking for scientific, rational answers to mythological, irrational questions. But the writers were purposely blending reality with the surreal to create that feeling of question and mystery, so one question inevitably led to another and another and another. That is why we watched week after week, season after season, year after year, because we love mystery and they revealed enough without showing everything in glaring, forensic detail, ruining the illusion.

Many of the 'answers' are completely open to interpretation because they are suggested rather than stated and that is the beauty of Lost, it is a very different experience for different people and therefore the experience becomes very personal. If you didn't like the show that is fine but for some of us there is nothing else like it because a rarity came upon us, (along with 'The Soprano's' and 'Six Feet Under') a tv series that lifted us out of the everyday and the banal and deep into the inner (eye) realm of imagination and enabled us to make the show what we wanted. To give it our own meaning.

I still think the flash sideways 'ending' is a new (4th) dimension (not purgatory) created in the white flash, a real place for consciousness and memory to merge from one timeline into another. Like two mirrors slowly folding in on each other. But maybe that's just me...

Finally, the best piece of Lost is left alone, it surrounds the Island now, it glints along the ripples of the water, in creeping tendrils that float and hang upon the vines and the earth.

Mystery.