John Waters sites Russ Meyer and Lewis as his two favorite film directors... and after watching this film, the influence is obvious.  GORE GORE is basically a mix of campy, over the top dialgoue, bad acting  -- yet a director (and crew) who seemed to really be having a lot of fun- - but not taking themselves too seriously.  It the end, it made this (and many of Lewis's other films) GREAT... no matter how deceptively bad they were.  (I say deceptively, because the idea of using graphic violence as a sublimation for graphic sex in the era of "porno chic" was definitely a powerful, even if unintentional social statement.

As for GORE GORE, its a slasher/murder mystery film set at a sleazy go go bar and featuring an appearence with Henny Youngman... cool groovy (as well as corny) music embellished with a bit of bizarre psychadelic incidental music and even a bit of groovy soul Jazz spice up the soundtrack...  and '70s porno chic quality acting... and actually pretty good cutting and shooting considering the budget - - who else but Lewis could pull it off... ???

A cult classic, there's nothing overhyped about this film... Though I imagine that few people today vomit at the site of store bought organ meat and bucketloads of fake blood (millions of films have followed in its wake) - - its '70s sleeze at its best...  the dialogue is really funny... actually plenty of Henny Youngman style one liners (that repeat themselves over and over).  -- - The film is held together by a effeminate Eric Idol meets David Lockary lounge lizard of a Private Eye... and plenty of hot looking strippers.  As for the gore, takes about 15 minutes into the film...  While Lewis's imagination and special effects are worlds apart... the scenes are funny... For example, they will always have something clever about them, but then go overboard to the point you can tell that its a plastic dummy that's being hacked up (or should I say getting a face lift... nyar, nyar, nyar, nuar...)  Then in between lot's of goofy dialogue, a few strip routines, more bad acting and general weirdness... and finally... more strange and imaginative gore.  (I'll never eat french freis again - - not atleast without laughing!)

All in all, a bad movie, but cut in a way that with the right herbal embellishments you can really really get into it... - - Years ago, people went to the movies expecting to be entertained - - and it is no wonder that to this today Lewis is idolized as not only the godfather, but the greatest of the genre...

Incidentally, this film was definitely shot before the era of Crime Scene Reality TV... the mass murderer in his film KILLS his victims instantly THEN tortures them... talk about a kinder gentler society... My favorite is the scene where he spanks his victim to death with a wooden meat tenderizer, causing (as I recall) her eyes to pop out, or something like that... then *after* she passes rubbing salt into the wounds...  Talk about a true bonified sicko...