There are so many laudatory things one could say about the film itself--the first American feature-length animated film, its use of the multiplane camera, color, realistic animation, characters, and so forth. I will not go over such familiar territory here. Suffice it to say, if you have not seen SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS and you are at all interested in either animation or pivotal moments in film history itself, then you should fill that gap in your knowledge. That being said, I will confine my comments to the DVD edition itself as it might appeal primarily to the adult animation/Disney fan.
First, there are a ton of extras here which include a range for almost anyone. Check out the list of contents--everything from an "interactive" ride with Dopey to archival material to technical information on the process of animation. Many other reviewers have listed their favorites, and I am no exception. A particularly nice addition is the Silly Symphony "The Goddess of Spring." It's always nice to buy a feature-length film and get a short that helps demonstrate technical aspects to animation. Also quite useful were excerpts from the Disneyland TV show which focused on technical information, including "Tricks of the Trade." This is a solid introduction to the multiplane camera. And then, for those of us who love paper as much as cels, there are production design galleries and posters from various theatrical releases. All these extras are combined in an easy-to-navigate format, which is much appreciated.
Before addressing the reason for my 4 star rating I should comment on the DVD's overall tone. It is almost excessively indulgent, whether when expressed in the Disneyland excerpts or the guest appearances. Disney knows and lets the audience know that SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS is a great product and that they also created a materful DVD. But it gets tiresome to hear how the world of Disney is so wonderful; the evidence should (and does) speak for itself. There is lots of shameless self-promotion here, much of it unnecessary and some of it irritating. More balanced commentary from historians and scholars like John Canemaker would have been preferable to the prescence of Angela Lansbury or the "Disney Through the Decades" cast; the "testimonials" felt like the actors were still under contract rather than offering heartful support to the film.
I know, you might be thinking "And shouldn't a company congratulate itself?" To an extent, yes, and I would agree that this DVD is well worth the money. But--and these are the reasons which are enough for me to withhold a 5 star rating (I would have given it a 4 1/2 if there was such an option--there are some omissions, additions, and errors that interfere with my enjoyment of the DVD as both a Disneyphile and scholar. Surely "The Old Mill" was worthy of inclusion as the company's multiplane camera test short! More information in the galleries, to finally giving proper attribution to studio artists, would better satisfy those who would spend time perusing such material. Did we need Streisand's rendition? Most distressing for me is the inclusion of the so-called Brother Grimms version of Snow White; I will simply say the version they provide is incorrect, altered for a Disney audience (to check out for yourself, look at Norton's Critical edition of tales edited by Maria Tatar). In such a carefully wrought work, such an error is careless and suspect. There is also the concern with navigational speed; it seems a bit clunky at times, though I am more than willing to overlook this for the wealth of materials that Disney does include.
Overall, the DVD is well worth the amount charged. It demonstrates the potential that DVD offers an informed audience and makes it possible for those new to animation or Disney to become an informed audience. I highly recommend adding it to your collection, even if you have yet to purchase a DVD player. However, I withhold a 5 star rating for its (rather obvious and unnecessary) omissions and errors, and its congratulatory, almost  smug tone.