Brace Yourselves - I love it when they open these DVD's with a Brace Yourselves intro. Cause God only knows that you need to brace yourself in preperation of what you're about to see. And this DVD is no different -- and Michael really can't do anything small, it's ALWAYS big surrounding him and dealing with him, isn't it?

Black or White - This is one of Michael's ultimate video's, especially from the 1990's. And the appearance of a young Macauly Culkin does wonders for the video too, especially when he lip-sync's the rap in the song. I just can't say too much good about this video, mainly because of the message Michael is trying to give if you'll just listen to the song, and the video is a perfect example of what that message is. "I'm not gonna spend my life bein' a color..."

Grammy Legend Award 1993 - Okay, firstly, I love how soft-spoken and shy Michael is to be such a superstar, especially in 1993. And I love how he stands up with his arm around Janet and says, "I hope this puts to rest some of the rumors..." When the rumors were going around that he and Janet were the same person. Anyway, this is a deserved accolade for Jackson, and I'm glad they included it in this DVD.

Heal The World (Superbowl XXVII Halftime Show) - The card stunt is amazing, the performance is amazing. I love it. The only thing that would've been better would be having included the ENTIRE halftime show, but, to be honest, since this was the highlight of the halftime show anyway, I can see what they were doing, so I won't complain too much.

Remember The Time - I've already given my stance on this video plenty of times in the past, but I'll say it one more time -- I love the appearance of Eddie Murphy, the Egyptian theme, and the fact that Michael can take a song about heartbreak and turn it into a dancing number. Only Michael could do that.

Will You Be There - I love this video. And it delivers a good message, just like Black or White does. You just have to listen to the song and pay attention to both the song and the video to get what that message is.

In The Closet - My favorite song from Dangerous, and probably my favorite video from Dangerous. It's a rollicking track with a rollicking video that just has to be seen to be believed.

Gone Too Soon - The song and video that was dedicated to Ryan White. Just like Black or White and Will You Be There before it, this is a video and a song that gives a good message -- a good message that's easy to get if you'll actually pay attention to both the song and the video.

NAACP Image Awards - Another award that Michael deserved, and one award that he probably should've gotten a whole lot sooner than what he had.

Jam - How can you go wrong with a video that has both the King of Pop and the King of Basketball in it? I mean...seriously? Michael tries to teach Jordan how to dance, and Jordan tries to teach Michael how to shoot basketball. It's the perfect plot for a perfect song and video.

Heal The World - This is the regular video of Heal The World, and it's one of those video's. And, by one of those video's, I mean it's one of those tear-jerker video's, regardless of if you want it to be or not.

Give In To Me - I'm not a big fan of this video. I don't know why, so don't ask me, but it never tickled my fancy. I love the song, though. So I won't complain too much.

I'll Be There - I LOVE this video. I love Michael in this video. I love how the video is setup and played out. I'm giving nothing away, but it's another one of my favorites on this collection.

Who Is It - This is another one of my favorite songs on Dangerous, and it's another one of my favorite video's on this compilation. Only Michael could pull songs and video's like this off. Nobody else will ever compare. Ever.

Dangerous - The way to close the video would, naturally, of course be "Dangerous." I love the song, I love the video, and Michael goes out of his way to prove that he is dangerous as they come.

I love this compilation. I think it ranks a little bit lower than the two HIStory compilation's, but that's still saying something, because it's not a bad compilation of video's and award ceremonies at ALL.