Who does the better Elvis, Kurt Russell or Kevin Costner? Kurt Russell! No contest. Is this casino-robbing, car-chasing double-crossing pair of cons worth watching? You bet. It's a fun ride all the way from Vegas to Vancouver in Demian Lichtenstein's first film, 3000 Miles To Graceland.
This would make a great drive-in movie. Lots of style, a dash of substance and lots of shooting and explosions. You can tell our director was real interested in 'getting the shot'. The movie is really just a series of great shots, from our gang of Elvis-impersonating cons walking through the casino to Kevin Costner driving through the desert lighting a cigarrette as a gas station goes up in a ball of flame behind him. Yeah baby!
The premise may be simple, but the plot is kind of convoluted. Kurt Russell blows into town, hooks up with Courtney Cox Arquette for a quick fling, meets up with bad-boy Costner, dresses up like Elvis and rides off with three expendables to rob a casino. The heist works, but Costner pulls a double-cross leaving Kurt Russell with dents in his handy bullet-proof vest. Russell winds up with the money, the girl and her smart-mouthed son on his way to exchange his hot millions for cold cash. Costner chases him. The girl runs off with the money! Russell chases her, but Costner gets to her first. Russell and the kid get her back and all three go after the money again. Back and forth the money goes, until the final confrontation complete with explosions, shooting and a gratuitous Ice-T. Oh, and did I mention that Russell and Costner could be Elvis' illegitimate children? Oh yeah.
It's hard to know who the director wants the audience to identify with though. Is it Russell's understated con with a heart of gold, or Costner's con without a conscience, taking what he wants when he wants it? Since Kurt Russell's character has a good side, i'll say it is him. Lichtenstein has quite a bit of fun with Costner though. Clearly Costner has taken a seminar at the John Travolta cooler-than-my-costar school of acting. Much of his story line is told as if in a video-most of the one liners and money shots are his. In other words, the bad guy has all the fun.
Kurt Russell has spent his career playing likable characters, and this one is no exception. He plays his sequin-wearing convict with a humanity that's almost too fine for this movie, but he seems to have a good time doing it.
Costner enjoys himself too, as a sociopathic would-be son of the King. He really hams it up in this one, and the director favors him with music video-inspired imagery and a killer soundtrack featuring Filter, Hednoize and of course, Elvis.
Courtney Cox Arquette made her trashy, opportunistic mom  interesting and likeable, especially onscreen with Kurt Russell.
This is a very enjoyable film, in a 'movies for guys who like movies' kind of way, only chicks will dig it too.