First, I'll confess to being a middle aged average male "shmoe" so you know where I'm coming from.
  For the action, this film was mostly what one would expect. For the most part, the cars and the racing were pretty good. The 4 car street race was intense and the photography was excellent on that.  On the other hand, some of the special effects were really poorly done. For example, if a car left the road (except for the last scene), it stopped so quickly and with so little damage that it was flagrantly OBVIOUS that the action was really going on at maybe 30 mph, not the high speeds consistent with the action/plot.  This was so bad, it makes one wonder if they forgot to hire someone to keep an eye on continuity.
  The other main criticism I had is aside from the first and last race scenes, all the other fast car scenes to me seemed far too similar and got rather boring, frankly.
  On the other hand, I didn't expect to get ANY decent acting or character development out of this. Vin Diesel was a standout bright spot.  Here you have a supposedly really bad, dangerous, criminal who is clearly spiritual, thoughtful, plays fair, and who only became a criminal because of a sudden life shattering event, and the all-too-human mistake he made in the wake of that event.  Although he is now a career criminal in the wake of the tragedy and his punishment (and the severe limitation the consequences put on his life choices FOR THE REST OF HIS LIFE), it is clear his victims suffer no permenant damage, aside from financial.
  With the "rogue cop" tendencies of the protagonist, it left me thinking first, how easy it could be for ANY of us to become a "criminal" in a flash of emotion in a time of crisis to a horrible event, and second asking "who is TRULY the protagonist here?"
  So to me, this movie reminded me of lot of the surprise I received in "Fight Club" expecting generic brand X action, and getting some actual CONTENT to think about as well.
......
  Oh, by the way, if you're under 21, like hot cars and pretty girls - you'll certainly like this. Don't let all this "philosophy" scare you off!  :)