I speak Russian and English, the latter more fluently than the former. The translations in this movie were god awful. Most of the translations were no where near accurate. This is for all the dialogue not just expressions that were hard to translate. Of course, you could still watch the movie, read the English subtitles and understand the movie but quite a bit is lost.

Also, I viewed this movie before I viewed the previous movie in the series, since I didn't know that a previous movie existed. Also, I'm reviewing this movie as a singularity and not as part of a series. Thus, this review should be taken with a grain of salt. With that said, I'm assuming the movie relied heavily on the previous movie to make connections because I left the movie rather confused. Great special effects but a lot was left unexplained and a lot of the film didn't have continuity. For example, at one point, two characters are fighting. One character, from the side of dark we'll call him V, is fighting to capture Anton and another from the side of light is fighting to save Anton, we'll call her A. So, A is standing next to V, crashing buses into him, and basically cutting up his face while V is trying to capture Anton. Anton manages to escape. Later and near the end of the movie, we find out that the dark side is trying to start a war and that in order to do this the light side needs to make someone from the dark side bleed. So, the dark side puts this great plan in motion in order for this to happen. But wait.... didn't this already happen quite a while ago? As far as lack of explanation an example is the gloom. Anton has limited powers and can only travel into certain depths of the gloom. This is as far as the movie goes into this explanation. The gloom seemed like a cool facet of the movie but it was hardly touched upon. What was it? What was it's purpose? And if Anton had limited powers and couldn't travel far into the gloom why do we see him waltz into the very center of the dark sides fortress with absolutely no problem and without any sort of increase in power? These are just some of the things that left me boggled at the end of the movie. Still, the movie had great action scenes and great special effects which made me give it a few stars.

In all, I'm hoping that the movie will make more sense once I go and watch the previous movie in the series.