when i first heard of the movie, i thought to myself well another boring movie with probably no backbone story just like Charlie`s angels (i love the original series, but the movies don`t do justice at all!) but then i saw the theatrical trailer i and i knew it was going to be awesome!!! why??? first of all, the actors, owen and ben have such a great chemistry together that they overshadow tag teams like richard and gene, among others, they know how to make it work, i mean it`s not the first time they`ve worked together, if you`ve followed the series you know they had a slick urban coolster friend called huggy bear and who better to play that part than mr. Snoop Dog, i mean c`mon man the combination of these three players is an explotion ready to happen, but if that`s not enough you also see great acting by vince vaugh, juliette lewis, carmen electra among others. From the beginning of the movie you know you`re in for a treat as barry manilow`s "can`t smile without you" starts things off, as we travel to the seventies (1975) and we enter the world of starsky and hutch. then they present us the two main characters and from the genesis of the movie we know what we`re going to experience, now i`m guessing that this is the origin of the friendship of these two fellas, which everybody knows it turns out to be a long one. Another great touch director todd phillips made was capturing the essence of that particular era with the clothes,way of life and great songs (the score is my favorite and a important piece if you will of a movie) with artists like chicago, sammy johns and the carpenters (i hope i spelled it correctly) and lets not forget when hutch sings "don`t give up on us baby" and vince dancing to the tune of "feel like makin`love" was out of this world!!!!! the story was well written making it work for the entire cast creating a fun movie and a hilarious outcome!!!! if you haven`t seen it yet do yourself a huge favor and buy not rent BUY this dvd `cause its worth every penny!!!! trust me!!!! saludos a tavo y roxana!!!