When reading reviews, keep in mind that Amazon mixes reviews from multiple versions of Bugville, so pay attention to the line at the beginning that states which version is being reviewed. This review is of the Legend version.

I'm not going to get into the movie itself since it's a classic movie with loads of historical information and reviews available. Instead, I'll concentrate on this print.

The DVD features the movie, a Max Fleischer "biography" that's really a couple of pages of text, and three short cartoons (Two For the Zoo, Ants in Plants and You Can't Shoe A Horsefly, the latter two also available on <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0000687E3">Max Fleischer's Color Classics: Somewhere in Dreamland</a>). There is also a copy of the original trailer, which gives you an idea of how the faded and washed out print compares to this restoration.

The main feature opens with a scratchy looking title, and then shrinks to part of a 4:3 frame to show the rest of the titles in what I would not describe as the best of presentations. I was ready to turn it off at that point, because it seemed to be exactly as another reviewer described what looked like a bootleg to him. I tried fast forwarding or seeking a specific position, but for some reason that didn't work. It turned out that after a couple of minutes, right after the title sequence ended, it returned to full frame and continued as a fairly good restoration. It was not pristine, but was free of scratches, was sharp, and the colors were clean and vivid. The sound was a bit scratchy, but not too bad considering the age of the film.

Aside from the problem navigating the disk, it gives you a good opportunity to see a classic with pioneering techniques that Disney could not duplicate. If you want more details about Max Fleischer's Rotoscope or Stereoptical Process, you can see the documentaries that are presented in the Popeye The Sailor volumes one and two (1933-1940). They give animated films lifelike movement of characters and a three dimensional feel that was not duplicated until computer animation came along. As for the overall quality of the restoration, I'd definitely say that they did a commendable job and wouldn't hesitate to recommend it.