This is a well-made, well-acted, and powerful film. That said, a few observations:

Vassily Zaitsev, the hero of this film, certainly existed in reality. Tania Chernova, the Rachel Weisz character, may have existed, though there are enough inconsistencies in the stories about her to make one doubt. But the German supersniper who was supposedly sent to Stalingrad to find and kill Zaitsev is almost certainly fictional. There's nothing in German or Soviet archives to establish his existence. The aged and blind Vassily Zaitsev apparently recalled only that he and another Soviet sniper had together killed a German sniper at Stalingrad, not that there had been a supersniper sent to kill him, that the two had stalked each other, etc. Further-as the film tells us very clearly-Zaitsev was played up in Soviet wartime propaganda, which was not noted for its scrupulous truthfulness, and it seems that such material is the source of the "snipers' duel" story.

It's doubtful that, at the stage of the war shown in this film, so many Soviet troops had to be forced to the front at gunpoint, or that Soviet generals would have launched the imbecilic human wave attacks shown at the beginning of the movie.

The preternatural skill of Major Koenig, the German sniper, is powerfully conveyed. Purists will object that nobody in history has been THAT good a shot, or anything close to it.

Rachel Weisz is such an extraordinarily appealing actress that one overlooks the absurdities in how her character is written. The Tania Chernova of this film (not to mention Ms Weisz herself) seems far too sweet, soft, and humane to be the bloody-minded fanatic that an actual woman would have had to be to volunteer for sniper duty in the hell of Stalingrad. The filmmakers have even turned her into an intellectual Germanophile who reads Goethe, etc. Come now.

Joseph Fiennes' handsome, cultured, and sensitive political officer is also a gross implausibility, though I didn't notice this until after the film was over.

Bob Hoskins appears briefly but memorably as Nikita Khruschev; his vulgar and murderous beast reminds one of his Beria character in the excellent THE INNER CIRCLE (which BTW REALLY needs to come out on DVD).

Michael Medved detested James Horner's musical score. I found it very effective, though Horneresque-but what else should one expect Horner to sound like?

One perhaps eccentric observation.  The name of the German supersniper in the movie is "Koenig." However, in other sources the name is given as "Thorwald" or "Thorvald." This is also the last name of the Raymond Burr character in Hitchcock's REAR WINDOW. The struggle in that film, depending as it does upon spyglass spying, reminds one oddly of the snipers' duel in ENEMY AT THE GATES, and one wonders whether whoever wrote the script for the Hitchcock film knew the fable of the Stalingrad snipers.