Yes, this is the greatest. I have a list of my favorite 30 or 40 movies and TV shows ever and this is at the very, very, very top. I have a good memory too, for movies and toons. I would remember if I had EVER seen something better. First, note that it is based on a series of novels called "The Destroyer" by Sapir and Murphy. It has an active website, www.sianju.com (I believe... I may have misspelled it). This movie may be 20 years old and the first destroyer books older, but they are STILL MAKING THEM! Over 130 books, each one averaging maybe 200 or 250 pages... the story of Remo may in fact be the longest story ever told.
Now, that said, you will either agree or disagree with me. You may or may not be impressed with the special effects, or the story, or the humor. The ending is the greatest, though. Sure, you can see the 6 or 8 foot wide platform under the water and make out its edges also from the way the waves ricochet along the surface of the water, but the IDEA is brilliant and terribly funny. Here are these military guys who have lived their whole lives in the real world, shooting with real guns and understanding power on those terms, and suddenly, out of the blue, they bear witness to something that maybe... no ordinary mortal is meant to see. I also like the bullet dodging. It's really irritating how they slow things down and make it look fake like in The Matrix and other recent things. This is REAL bullet dodging, dagnammit.
The character Chiun surely inspired so many other characters from other movies (Pat Morita's character in Karate kid, for instance), Japanese animation (Kamesennin from Dragonball for instance), and well, all sorts of other things (well, plenty of video games for sure), it is hard to even imagine. He is the very-old-man-invincible-martial-arts-master who says arcane, silly all the time, that has almost become a stereotype over the years. Joel Grey does an amazing job as this humorous, incredibly arrogant and insulting old man who one would say to have a superiority complex if he were not in fact superior, and you just know that things will turn out all right when he's around.
Some may say this movie oozes with testosterone, and to that I say, YES! But in a good way.
The DVD's only special feature, unfortunately, is the preview to the movie. That's because this was made in 1985, on analog technology, and before the era of keeping around extra features for use in later releases (such as outtakes, behind the scenes looks, etcetera).