I watched this movie in my composition II class at USF and I really enjoyed. I wrote the following paper regarding the underlying religious symbolism throughout the movie. It was very well done for its time and I would definitely recommend it. 
Robert Morgan, who is the main character and in fact "the last man on earth," survives a certain plague-type epidemic that engulfs almost everyone on the face of the planet. Morgan lives day by day throughout the movie in fear for his life and preparing for the sun to set and the defense to go up. The virus affects humans by turning them into zombie-like vampires that only emerge at night to feed on fresh blood and spread the disease into the healthy population. Morgan just so happens to be the last man untouched by the sickness which has a symbol in itself. The writer intends to portray Morgan as Jesus, the Jewish savior for which Christianity is based on. Jesus was thought of as a threat to the Jews during his time. His religious beliefs that he was the son of God angered the Jewish people greatly. They looked at him, as what would be equivalent to in this day and age, a cult leader. Morgan is by no means portrayed as a cult leader but he is in fact the only man left who is healthy and in the right state of mind. Everyone is after to kill him because they looked at him as dangerous and a threat to their existence. This resemblance could be built upon the writer's intentions on comparing Jews to zombies who are out to eliminate anyone that doesn't conform to their beliefs.  
Morgan holds a cure to the virus, his blood. It's yet another symbolic approach to the pro-Christian ideology intended by the writer. Morgan's blood is "pure," immune to the virus and the key to saving human existence. Robert Morgan developed immunity to the virus during a fever he obtained which made his blood very valuable to the infected. The zombies did not see this and continued to pursue his extermination. According the Bible, Jesus had the power to heal the sick and helpless. The correlation between Jesus' special ability and Morgan's unique blood draws a holy characteristic in Morgan. He is very much portrayed as a modern day Jesus in this fashion. 
As the movie progresses towards the end, the religious affiliation is very evident. Morgan learns of the infected people that have been taking an injection to help house the virus from fully affecting them, turning them into blood thirsty zombies. These infected people now see him as a threat since he has been eliminating them, not knowing that they have found a way to sustain the virus. Morgan's actions at this point are much like that of Jesus'. Morgan was only trying to eliminate the zombies, not innocent people. He didn't understand that his actions were being shunned upon by the "healthy" infected group. He even goes about transfusing his blood to the infected woman he meets, making her immune. The correlation with Jesus here is that Jesus was only doing what he believed. He didn't mean to harm anyone, but the majority of the population looked down on his beliefs and actions and still persecuted him. The infected party didn't want to give him a chance, or even explain to him that they found a way to control the virus. This similarity may not be very clear on the surface but the facts between these two ideas are strikingly similar. 
The religious symbolism even expands out past the portrayal of Robert Morgan as Jesus. As Ruth enters the picture, so do the symbols of Jesus' once loyal friend turned betrayer, Judas. Ruth, who is part of the "healthy" infected population, runs into Morgan out during the bright hours of the day. Morgan is shocked by the sight of a healthy woman. It's no coincidence that she just happens to run into him as she makes it appear because we soon learn of her deadly role. Ruth is acting as a spy for the infected population hoping to find some information on Robert Morgan to eliminate him. Morgan takes the woman into his home and cares for her. He even goes about transfusing his blood to her body to destroy the virus in her. Ruth realizes Morgan's value and good intentions and this specific detail is very symbolic of religion. According to the bible, Jesus cared for Judas as did Morgan cared for Ruth. Judas then turns his back on Jesus to collect an award for information on Jesus. After Judas does this he then realizes what he has done and tries to stop the Jews from arresting Jesus. Ruth in turn, tries to save Morgan as Judas did. She tries to explain the good to the people against him but no one will listen. Jesus and Morgan both suffer death because of the betrayal of a friend and misunderstanding of a population. 
The death of Robert Morgan is the most powerful and religious attribute throughout the entire movie. Any doubt of the presence of religion will sure be over ruled by these scenes. Moments before he is executed by the infected group, he is seen fleeing from them, trying to escape. He tries to seek refuge in the closest, safest building which just so happens to be a church. However, this church was not able to bring help to him. He was already marked for death and the infected followed him right into the church and up to the altar. There he stands, facing the group, above them all on the alter. This scene is the most religious symbol present in this movie. He is about to be executed like Jesus, above the enemies, just as if he were on a cross. He is then hit with a spear in the chest and collapses at the foot of the altar.