I rented this movie apprehensively, as I read some of the reviews on here.  There wasnt much else to rent, and this movie did pique my interest and I had an odd desire to really want to watch it.  I made sure to watch the UNCUT version when viewing, and I have to say that I was very pleasently surprised!

I know I will be bashed for this line too, but I have to admit that Vin's acting was actually fairly impressive - for the standard character that he always tends to play.  He is no different in this movie, however there are subtle nuances to this role that made it stand out (in my mind at least).

The world on display in this movie was also fairly impressive - and I found that repeatedly throughout the movie that for a movie that is supposed to be this bad, it had a very impressive visual feel.  The settings all felt unique and had great detail.  My only complaint I guess would be the overly "ripped" off feel of the "megalopolis New York" to that of Blade Runner (over advertising, many extremely tall skyscrapers, etc).  That and not enough of the movie actually took place in what could have been an extremely cool setting (NY that is).

There wasnt really all that much action, but there seemed to be enough to make the movie interesting while sticking to the main story (which I was actually glad for - beginning to get sick of action packed movies that have had their stories applied as an afterthought).

However, I will say that it always felt as if this movie should have been much much more.  The epic scale and feel of the story, as well as the world, begged to be explored in much greater depth.  The characters could have been a little deeper - and the actual plot of the story could have made a little more sense (did feel a bit contrived).  Overall the movie did leave me wanting more - but I guess thats better than wanting to walk out of the theater!

If I bought this movie sight unseen, I would have been pleased.  It was certainly worth the rental.  All I can say is watch the movie, have an open mind (and zero expectations) and you will walk away entertained to say the least.