I saw this on October 30, 2009 and I must say, I was shocked and a lot of "why" questions were answered as I watched this documentary.  The gay and lesbian community has been holding Americans hostage with the power they weild in D.C and we should all be OUTRAGED.  I have always supported the gay and lesbian community being free to live life with the benefits of straight couples.  The problem is this group wants only one standard, theirs.  By that I mean; when same sex marriage won in California, and while the challenge was going through the courts, the marriage license in California went from "bride and groom" to "party A and party B", no choice, only "non-gender specific".  A right was taken away from the majority population.  Outrage answers why choice is not an option.  The Prop 8 campaign was in full swing and the gay and lesbian supporters claimed same sex marriage had nothing to do with K-12 education.  But, San Diego saw a threatened lawsuit, with demands, after Prop 8, in the public school system regarding a parents right to approve their childs presence at a gay and lesbian report done by a student.  The gay/lesbian parents were upset the school sent home a permission slip for students to be present at their childs presentation on a gay/lesbian activist.  After Prop 8 passed one of the California school districts submitted a "gay and lesbian" curriculum in an elementary school.  By my account That is bringing gay and lesbian sex education and life style/culture into the K-12 curriculium???  Anyway, "Outrage" explains that many members of the gay and lesbian community hold powerful positions as elected officials, some known as gay or lesbian and some still in the closet and going to great lengths to keep it in the closet.  Point is laws have been passed to prevent prayer in public schools, at one time there was a program called religous release in Southern California schools, and parents signed permission slips for their children to attend the last hour, of the day, one day a week in a bible study of their religous preference.  The fight between the gay and lesbian community with religion is well documented and with the power this group has in D.C., not just elected officials passing legislation, but gay and lesbian lobbyist and D.C. media use and hide information about lawmakers at the head of powerful committies responsible for the upside down policy making in D.C..  Outrage explains many "why" questions regarding the upside down decisions coming out of our nations capitol.  The majority of Americans do not know the person they are voting for and are, blindly, voting along party lines and voting for the candidate with the most money. This documentary is a must see before the upcoming elections.