I'm in a state of awe after seeing "The Lover," or "L'Amant," the film based on the autobiographical novel by Marguerite Duras. Duras wrote this confessional piece about a love affair she had while still a teenager with a much older Chinese man. It is set in 1920's Vietnam, a period of time where Vietnam was awash with the mingling of its colonizers: the French and Chinese. Although the story conveys an illegal relationship by today's standards (she was a minor), I'll just respect Duras' story since it is her life, after all, and refrain from condemning it as a film that condones statutory rape. So, with that out of the way, I'll proceed.

First off, the premise of the story is unique. Neither she or he are natives of Vietnam; however, this is where their relationship thrives. It is outside of Vietnam, or out of its social context, such as in her private family quarrels and his remembered experience with whites in France, that their relationship withers. Duras touches upon so many different divides: race, social hierarchy, economic disparity, age gap....It makes for an interesting story with many immobile elements. The movie is hauntingly beautiful and the actors are splendid. Jane March's final scene--during which she weeps for her lost love set to the background of a Chopin waltz--made my whole body ache with sadness. Tony Leung does a fine job of portraying the millionaire Chinese man who lives off of his family's extraordinary wealth and has no other passion than that of seeking and making love. His ample idle time, since he had never worked a day in his life, affords him the opportunity to woo this young French school girl. The movie is extremely sexually graphic, to the point that I had to fast-forward through those scenes, but I am told that Duras' novel itself was also quite graphic. Anyways, the two of them end up "falling in love" and find themselves bitterly destroyed by their impractical relationship. He has an arranged marriage to a stranger; her (albeit white-trash) family would never tolerate her being with a "Chinaman."

I love this movie for its honest illustration of impossible love. Annaud, the director, holds this film steady in its subtlety throughout, giving the viewer the option of deciding for oneself what their love really means. The characters are consumed by a romantic ideal that they are projecting on one another--which just fuels their relationship--and find wholeness, ironically, in an empty fantasy. She believes that he is too good for her, as the daughter of a family with a destroyed reputation; and he feels undeserving of her, since while he studied in Paris, the only white women he shared a bed with were French prostitutes. I think that, due to such insecurities and their volatile physical attraction, it seems only logical that they would fall for each other, or the "idea" of the other. When they are together, they fill one another's voids, and come to associate their wonderful world as distinct and far more perfect than the harsh reality outside of his "bachelor's room." She deals with an abusive brother, witless mother, and extreme poverty, while he finds himself of no other use than to love, and realizes that he will never gain access to the Western world of which he is so fond. Together, however, they venture into an existence of peace, validation, security--suspending reality even for a couple of hours at a time. They create a womb for each other in that dim-lit room of his, while the rest of the world bustles around in the Chinese district right outside the door. Rickshaws squeak on by, street vendors hawk their wares, people struggle to make a living, while the two lovers hold onto their fantasy for just a moment longer.

I don't really know how it would have turned out had Duras actually married this man. In a way, I'm glad that she didn't. They are creatures of different habitats and I doubt that their passion for one another would have carried them through decades of marriage and reality: think babies, diapers, child-sitting, who makes dinner, laundry, cleaning the toilet? [Come on, you've got to think about these things. I've come to ask myself anytime I meet a guy I'm remotely interested in: "Can I imagine grocery shopping with him? How about going to the dollar store?" "Will he share household duties, such as cleaning mildew off of shower walls?" "What if I get really sick and throw up all over the place?" Anyways, I digress. Back to the movie.] Even more, the beautiful Romeo and Juliet quality would be entirely lost if they had learned more about one another and come to realize that they were never in love with the person. Perhaps I am cynical, but I doubt that relationships based on initial attraction are sustainable. They are too far removed from reality and will forever be relegated to that of near-fiction, as in the case of the very real Marguerite Duras and her Chinese lover. In the end, I believe "The Lover" is a compelling study of how people fulfill their need for emotional survival. It is also a testament to how blind we are to our own deficiencies. Watch it. Watch it, not only for their story, but for the gorgeous imagery and lyrical direction.