I just watched the first season of Big Love on DVD, the HBO drama about a polygamous family in Utah trying to cope with the demands of such a life, while attempting to keep their polygamous ways hidden from the public. Bill Henrickson runs Henrickson Home Plus, an up-and-coming Utah-based competitor to giants such as Lowe's, Home Depot, and Wal-Mart. He has three wives, but only the first, Barbara Henrickson, is legally wed to him, while the other two are wives through religious practice. The wives take turns . . . uh, servicing Bill, with rotating shifts, so to speak (each wife shares a bed with Bill every third night, and the nights begin at 9:00 a.m.--it gets complicated).

There are various rules associated with this lifestyle, including adherence to almost complete isolation from neighbors, co-workers who exist outside of the "Principle," and anyone else for that matter. Bill has spread his wives and children out in three separate and abutting houses, and there is one big backyard shared between them. Every evening, Bill enters the same house, the one shared by him and his first wife, Barbara, despite whose shift it is. He will then head over to the house of one of the other two wives via the back entrance, if it is either of their shifts--this is done to avert suspicion. As the show progresses, the layers of the Henrickson household are slowly pealed away, allowing viewers to enter into the inner chambers of their unique belief system and practices. By the middle of the season, one will find oneself completely familiar with the characters, being privy to their secrets, their desires, and their fears.

Bill's protagonist is wonderfully opposed by the sinister Roman Grant, a said to be "prophet" and the apparent head of the United Effort Brotherhood (UEB), a fundamentalist offshoot of the LDS church. Bill and Grant are bitter enemies, and the surprising ties between them, which are revealed as intriguing and important plot points throughout the season, help to keep things interesting, as these ties only lock them closer in combat. Both men go to various extremes to stick it to each other. Grant, meanwhile, has somehow managed to acquire a stake in Bill's two stores, earning 15% on each of them (what he believes is his due, in the form of "tithes" and "offerings"). Bill intends to open up a third store, but his expansion is hampered by Grant's outstretched hand, as he aims to get a piece of that pie as well.

The most appealing feature this show has going for it is its uniqueness. In a time when dramas and situation comedies have grown stale by repeating what has gone before, and in remarkably poor taste, Big Love seems to have captured lightning in a bottle, delivering a fresh, entertaining, and highly engrossing story about a family the likes of which has never been seen in this medium before.

Definitely worth a look.