Be warned, this movie is not remotely frightening. Whereas the first FD attempted to undercut the silliness of the whole concept with some genuinely creepy sequences, this hare brained sequel simply plays the whole thing for laughs, and gets them. In truth the whole film is really nothing more than an excuse to string together some pretty inventive and grisly deaths (its extremely gory for an R rated picture), but the same could be said of a lot of horror movies and it's refreshing to see one so totally lacking in both pretension and narrative logic. The set up is pretty much the same as before: someone experiences a vision of an imminent disaster, narrowly avoids dying and in the process prevents the certain death of several other characters. Death won't give up however, and a series of freak 'accidents' start bumping off the support players. And so we are treated to 90 minutes of splatstick, with death scenes that share the same kind of dramatic dynamic as The Three Stooges or Pink Panther movies, except that someone typically ends up mushed into a fine paste by the end. For sure, if you're squeamish then the sight of people being crushed by panes of glass, beheaded by elevators, segmented by barbed wire, burned alive, blown up, trepanned by fence posts and generally reduced to the consistency of yoghurt probably won't endear you too much to the movie, but hey - its just a gore flick for gore hounds. It has too much gallows humour and too much of a sense of it's own lowly intellectual stature to ever try and qualify as a serious chiller - witness Tony 'Candyman' Todds welcome return as the gravel voiced mortician in a scenery chewing turn, or the sidesplitting final sight gag just before the credits roll. People clearly had a lot of fun making the movie, and it's infectious. The plot is all over the place - we get an utterly surreal exchange of dialogue in which we learn that apparantly Death is working backwards through his victims this time for, well, no real reason - but it doesn't bother me. The filmmakers had their priorities right, paint the screen red and to hell with rhyme or reason. For those who question why people would want to watch movies like this: don't get all moral and judgemental. Humans have always enjoyed watching the simple, honest butchery of their own kind in vivid colour. It's entertaining. It can be highly amusing. Live with it. At least it's only simulated and not in the gladiatorial arena.
Watch this movie and have a GREAT time!