Thrilling, suspenseful, and stimulating are only a few of the words you can say to describe the film "Psycho." Alfred Hitchcock directs this mind boggling movie in a way that no other director could. This movie follows some of Hitchcock's other great classics such as "Rear Window," and "The Man Who Knew Too Much" which make them look as if they were Hitchcock's beginning movies.
 Instead of using a large budget and Technicolor, Hitchcock decided to take a different approach with this movie. He wanted the movie to be filmed in black and white even though color movies had been out for some time now. At first I thought that because the movie was in black and white that it would be uninspiring and dull but it actually made the picture better. Having it be filmed that way makes the movie scarier. It is always dark and gloomy so it puts you in that mood where you are ready to be frightened.  Hitchcock also did this movie on a very low budget with only $800,000 dollars to spend. With the little amount of money he had he did a wonderful job with all of the camera shots and angles that it looks like he spent tons of money and quality time while making "Psycho."
 The movie starts out with Marian Crane played by Janet Leigh and Sam Loomis played by John Gavin in a cheap motel on their lunch break talking about how they want to be together but they can't  for money reasons. Marian is able to steal money from her job and drives off to surprise her lover. She stops at a motel one night while on her way but because it was getting late she decided to stop and this is where the real story begins. You think that you are watching a movie about one thing and the next minute the plot of the movie changes before your eye. The whole time that you are watching the movie you are always unsure of what is going to happen and it keeps you guessing right up to the very end unlike some of the movies that are out now.
 You would think that since this movie was made in 1959 that it would not be the least bit scary but it turns out to be one of the scariest movies of all time. What makes the movie so scary is the music. The music in this movie is absolutely astonishing. There is music playing throughout most of the movie and the way they placed the music in each scene makes the movie that much better. Right when something is going to happen the music gets a little louder or it suddenly changes. Suspense is also another factor that makes this movie chilling. You never know exactly when something bad is going to happen or if someone is going to attack so you are left gripping on to your seat until something unusual happens.
 Another great feature about "Psycho" is the acting. All of the actors in the movie do a really great job portraying who they are playing.  None of them every look like they are acting. They make it look so real and that is one of the supreme effects of this movie. You feel like you are watching a documentary on a murderer who is being taped and you
Just want them to stop.
 "Psycho" is a movie that I went into a little bit hesitant but after seeing it I truly do believe that this movie is brilliant. This movie is for people who like suspense and love to be scared. I definitely recommend this movie to anyone who is sick and tired of seeing all the new horror films out that make you yawn. This movie is exciting, suspenseful and makes you want to go out and see all of the other films that Hitchcock directed.