'Moneyball' underwent as many benching's and roster changes in the production stage as the Oakland A's did in their 2002 pursuit of a World Series as depicted in the film. In 2011, finally completed, `Moneyball' is a baseball movie that transcends just professional sports, but becomes a simile for determination, integrity, and life in general. This is a sports movie that elicits inspiration, not in the typical Rocky banality, but with reflective affinity that resonates with us all.

The film, based on true events, follows the small market Oakland Athletics' General Manager Billy Beane in his pursuit of a World Series with the lowest budget of any team in the league. When he is forced to gut his team after a successful season, he does so by hiring a new assistant to help him develop an entirely revolutionary concept of recruiting players based on number crunching methods. This new method derides classic scouting methods that were based on intuition and professional experience.

The film is unorthodox in that it uses the game of baseball and its players as a backdrop to what the general managers and scouts do behind the dugout in their little offices. While this film focuses on the cutthroat struggle of team management, its strength lies in the pitch perfect (pun intended) execution of the screenplay which resembles closely what 'The Social Network' did for all of its intricate computer vernacular and idioms. It is no coincidence that Aaron Sorkin was credited as a writer, making accessible all the dialogue involving player statistics and complex business transactions. This is a drama through and through, but the pacing is supplemented with understated humor, a subtle buddy complex between Jonah Hill and Brad Pitt, and some excellent shots of actual baseball (consisting of real game footage, and recreated scenes, equipped with slow motion and portrait like opaque backgrounds for epicness).

Inspiration is a key theme in most sports films because it is fundamentally inherent in the sporting world in general. Unfortunately for a lot idealistic films about (_insert sport here_), they tend to resort to clich&eacute;'s about larger than life golden boys who defeat insurmountable odds to the delight of everyone around them. `Moneyball' succeeds in lifting the spirits by defying this rule. Billy Beane is, of course, painted in a way that's easy to root for, he's the ultimate underdog - but he pisses a lot of people off along the way. He is human to us because he makes decisions that have consequences; this is a film that isn't afraid to see the protagonists' worst case scenario materialized. This film unearths greatness due to excellent performances, succinct execution, and an exceptionally grounded story.

If I may resort to clich&eacute;s myself, Bennett Miller's `Moneyball' is a definite winner. No...it's a home run!