This is my first review written for Amazon, and I'm writing it because I feel very strongly about this film.  I've seen it, probably, four times now.  When I finish writing my review, I plan on ordering it so I can watch it again.

I don't love it so much because of a compelling plot, but because with this movie, I find Jarmusch to be perhaps the first filmaker I've come across who really wants to tell a story about how F'd over the men are getting in Western society.  I give the movie 5 stars for being groundbreaking in a way that probably won't be discovered for several more years.

There are two things to consider with my take on the film:  the first is the title "Broken Flowers" and what it means.  The second is about the Don Juan myth itself.

The myth is one that changes with time.  There is a Don Juan myth that anyone can look up on Wikipedia and get an idea of what the story line is.  But the myth changes with time and with the culture in the way that it's viewed -- sometimes Juan is a womanizer who uses women, other times it's that he loves women and can't get enough.  Jarmusch is telling the Don Juan myth circa 2006.

It's funny to read about how the take with most people seems to be that Johnston doesn't want to settle down.  Are you sure?  Tell me this:  which one of the frauds and jackasses should Johnston settle down with?  The closet organizer who's raised a daughter to walk around nude?  The animal communicator?  The surrendered wife?  The redneck trash?  Yet he looks longingly at Winston's life, for the truth of the matter is, every woman Johnston's been with has been a broken flower.  He's made his living off of computers, yet he doesn't own one.  We're introduced to Winston through his broken computer.  Simple and elegant plot devices.

Something to notice at the beginning of the film:  As Sherry's leaving she asks Don about Winston and his family, "Don't you want that?" she says.

"I don't know, do you?"  answers Don.

"I don't know."  returns Sherry.

Every reviewer I've seen takes that to be Don's reluctance to commit, yet at the same time, Sherry doesn't know what she wants either.  Jarmusch has tricked every reviewer from the New York Times to the Chicago Tribune into exposing their gender bias.

But the truly huge red elephant in the living room is the idea that Johnston has a son.  Somewhere, possibly, a woman from his past has denied him the opportunity to have a family even while we criticize him for not wanting one.  There is, of course, no criticism for the woman who would do this.  More tellingly, there is no criticism for the denial of her son to have a father.  So, kind reader, is that the broken flower Johnston should have settled down with?  The one who'll dismiss the deep emotions of a man and a boy simply because it's the most expedient?

Nice girl.

Most people tend to think Jarmusch left us hanging, but in fact, if one is willing to REALLY look at this movie, you'll see he answered every question.

The last woman -- Penny, is that the one?  She had his child, she sent the letter and the young guy at the end who wears the same warm-up jacket is Johnston's son.  The pink typewritere gives it away as well as Penny's use of violence by proxy.  Penny is a user who uses one man to beat up another even if it's her own son to wreak emotional havoc on an ex-lover.

Truly a masterpiece movie that every man should watch, and I hope that someday it re-emerges to be what it is.