Critique of Braveheart
  Mel Gibson's Braveheart is an epic film that brings to life the struggle of the thirteenth century Scotts. The people of Scotland rallied behind a brave man, William Wallace (Mel Gibson), to try and gain their freedom from the English. The film is filled with combat, strong will, love, and even a little humor. Not only is the story line unforgettable but also the cinematography and details of the movie are impeccable. The acting and scripting are masterful. The special effects utilized in the battle scenes are extremely graphic although very well done. Braveheart won countless awards in 1996, the most prestigious being Best Picture and Best Director at the Oscars. Mel Gibson was not only the leading role in this film, but also the director and the producer. Braveheart is not for those faint of heart yet many would enjoy the energy and excitement of the battlefield because the movie was made skillfully.
  Throughout the entire film the cinematography plays an important role. Even at the very beginning when the camera soars over the green hills, the audience begins to appreciate the wondrous land of Scotland. The land is green and untouched by modernity, which is perfect for the setting of the story. Scottish bagpipes play in the background as the camera dips and dives over the vast mountain ranges. All this beauty is one of the reasons why the Scotts fight so vehemently to protect their heritage and homes and freedom.
  The camera also plays an important role portraying the characters' emotions. It slows down and zooms into the actors' faces so that the audience is able to see the pain, love, or sadness. Mel Gibson did a wonderful job selecting actors for his movie. The actors he chose are so good that one can truly see the emotions running through their minds in their eyes. The suburb acting is what makes this movie extraordinary. Mel Gibson, in addition to his good looks, does an amazing job as Scottish rebel leader William Wallace.  Not only does he inspire the loyalty of his troops with his speeches, but the audience is motivated as well. Wallace's two chief lieutenants, played by Brendan Gleeson and David O'Hara provide a much needed humorous break to the constant fighting.
  Strong actresses play both of the women that capture Wallace's love. Catherine McCormack performs the role of Wallace's wife and true love, Murron. The beautiful Sophie Marceau portrays Princess Isabelle. Both of these characters are women of strong will, especially for the time period. Murron's affection for Wallace is tangible in the genuine way she looks at him and her devotion to marry him in secret. She takes a huge risk by defying the English's barbaric orders to bed a bride on the first night of her union. McCormack does an amazing job showing the sincerity and purity of that love. Their relationship, unfortunately, ends in tragedy, which in turns fuels Wallace's (Gibson) fire for revenge on the English. This event signifies the start of a revolt led by Wallace.
  The thirteenth century style of fighting was hand-to-hand combat; as a result, the battle scenes are extremely graphic. One can see limbs and heads chopped off, throats slit, and of course all the blood is included. This movie is not for those who go faint at the sight of blood. However, the special effects are done exceptionally well. Many horses were also used in the battle scenes. Using animals is difficult but it gives the movie a feeling of authenticity. In addition, thousands of extras were used in the battle scenes as well as peasants in the villages. The droves of soldiers are well organized just as a true army would be. As one the English archers send a rain of arrows on the Scottish, which demonstrates the superb directing abilities of Gibson.
  I have only a few negative critiques of this film. The first is the length of the movie. The film runs two hours and fifty-nine minutes. The film does a good job keeping the attention of the audience, yet at the end one starts to loose interest. It is one battle too many. One becomes dull to all the gory fighting and it does not stir up the same feelings of suspense that the earlier ones did. However, the film finishes strongly with the scene of Wallace's execution. Wallace courageously screams "freedom" despite torture and imminent death. Secondly, it is difficult to follow the historical events and players the first time watching Braveheart. There are many different noblemen both Scottish and English to keep track of. This becomes easier with the subsequent viewings.
  Braveheart, a memorable film, connects the audience to the struggle of the thirteenth century Scotts for freedom. The leader of the revolt, William Wallace (Gibson), inspires the viewers as well as the discontented Scottish clans to his cause, freedom. This film has strong themes of love, self-determination, and fortitude. The skill of the cinematographers and actors is remarkable and takes this movie to the award-winning level.

  Works Cited
James, Caryn. "FILM REVIEW: BRAVEHEART; The Splashy Epic Finds New Life in the 13th Century". The New York Times. February 2, 2008 [...]

Reed Business Information. "Braveheart Movie Review". Variety 100. February 2, 2008 [...]