****This review contains spoilers****

This movie is scary, and I can honestly say it shook me to the core. I'm chalking the 1-star reviews up to just mistaken expectations: this is NOT an action film, and it's not paced like an action film. If you expect that, prepare for disappointment. Sad to say, many people (myself included, at this point in the "review") confuse reviews for meandering expressions of baseless opinion. In the interest of injecting this review with some protein. I want to begin with a bit of an aside:

Why does it seem like everyone insists on assuming the climaxes in movies are dreams? Is this the Lost effect? The Inception effect? Isn't claiming it's all a dream merely a cheap fix for an ending that doesn't tie up neatly with our notion of endings?

This movie is about love and loss (of mental health, of family, of a way of life); it's about the epic Real that we cannot explain with our frames of reference but only with silence. It's also a movie about an event that does or doesn't happen. I'm going to discuss certain aspects of the film: the use of minor characters to develop and texture that of Curtis, the main characters, and the interplay between husband and wife during their vacation (the final scene).

Mental illness is capable of being an apocalypse. Specifically, mental illness and natural disaster take us outside of civilization and behavior. Acting along prescribed behavioral lines in both cases is either impossible and/or difficult and not what the situation calls for. We see Michael Shannon's character as someone who first plays it off, then attempts to reject it with modern medicine, and only finally embracing it. They will never understand, I imagined him thinking.

At first I was skeptical of introducing "sideline" characters for one or two scenes (the mother, the brother), only to never mention them again. On second thought, though, the brother showing up out of concern and leaving with the dog was interesting and very well done. Here's why: sometimes having characters come in and out and then totally disappear from the plot annoys viewers because this leaves behind loose ends and questions. In this case, it wasn't a loose end at all: people come in and out of our lives. And in a family fractured by a mother's mental illness, the distant relationship of the brothers is awkward and palpable. It's here we see Shannon's character chase away his brother, his dog ("man's best friend"), then his best friend. He's left at the end to fend for himself and his family precisely because he's severed ties in order to save himself and his family. The ending on the deck shows us a picture of desperation in the face of catastrophic disaster which "ironically" (only insofar as we expect nothing to go wrong on vacation) happens during the vacation taken to get away from his shelter and illness. And yet the catastrophe is always near. Nature knows: the birds always know; the daughter knows, and she feels it. Her signing on the beach illustrates this. She's just felt the earthquake. She didn't feel the storm while they were in the shelter, and it's what gives the father strength to open the door: the moment is expressed with silence, because there's no explanation why they're alive. Just luck. I've written on imdb that this could be a father's wish that his hearing impaired daughter "join the world" and interact with the same "normative" organic interconnectedness that our senses bring about, except that even the minor characters in this film struggle with alienation and uncertainty. Minor characters mention how lucky the family is to have good health coverage, a good job. Several times we hear about risks "in this economy." For the main character and his family, things are pretty good. Until the illness. Letting go and getting away from the shelter, only to have our need to rely on our "illness" come rushing back into focus -- two water spouts, tidal wave, brown rain -- is probably not how we envision a partner or spouse regaining trust in our mental acuity.

The wife's face in the final scene reflects the disbelief that the main character struggles with until he embraces his illness as something more than illness. For a moment, we see the projection of his confusion and "can this really be happening?" in her expression. Who can't relate to the feeling of beginning to understand while simultaneously questioning whether we're not the ones losing our grasp on reality? Coming to this realization is textured by the gravity of what came before: that while being supportive, the wife hasn't understood the husband's illness because to understand it would mean to know that your vacation would lead to your death. There is no *actual* way to prepare and take shelter because disaster is sudden, much like the onset of the husband's illness. So the wife can only frame her husband's dreams as indicative of an illness. She can only do that, until the end. It's this last scene's switch (the disbelief in him to now what we're witnessing) that makes it necessary. I found myself wishing at first that they had just ended it with the family looking toward the ocean, like the blinding light when Shannon's character opens the shelter door earlier on, but my wish seemed even more exaggerated (like the "event" that occurs outside in the beginning of The Road, for example) and leading at this point. Ending it this way, Nichols downplays the event and instead opens the dialog about just how little we know about mental illness. What a mesmerizing film!