Oddly enough, I ended up watching this movie with my Dad.  We don't always think that the same things are funny, but we both had the same reaction: "this is either the worst movie I have ever seen, or the best!"  The Baxters/Baxterettes go awkwardly through their lives.  So much so that it makes one cringe.  Think of scenes from The Office (British or American versions). The Baxters/ Baxterettes are so earnest and pathetic.  It is like watching a car accident.  You can't believe someone would act that way.  A guy whose last time saying up late was during finals week in Business school?  A guy who does not know anything about beer?  Two people who read the dictionary for fun?  When will the madness end!  I admit at that point I was worried about the rest of the movie.  I couldn't tell whether the writing was tongue in cheek.  Is it possible that the Baxter himself was in on the joke, hmmmmmm?  Were we the ones not getting it?  I don't know when it happened, but I began to find their habits and mannerisms endearing.  I thought "my God, they such geeks, but they are trying so hard to find love!"

This movie brings home the points that there is someone out there for everyone, and it is never to late to find new love or rekindle old passion. Elliot, the Baxter in the title, has narrowly missed finding the love of his life several times, or has he?  The old flame of every one of his girlfriends has  stolen her right out from underneath him.  He keeps trying to find love, but could he be sabatoging himself?  Can he break free of the past?  This movie is an interesting study in coincidences.  What series of events had to happen in just the right sequence for someone to fall in love, or get dumped, or run into an old flame, or all three at the same time, This movie shows how through a series of misadventures and coincidences Eilliot learns about life and love until he finds the love of his life.

As to the humor, because of the writing, acting, and clothes, my Dad was convinced that the movie was set in England.  It took me a bit too.  It wasn't until the words Brooklyn and apartment were said a few times that the debate decisively ended.  The writing and delivery was very Monty Python: slapstick humor and intelligent riffs on life.  Plus, the comic delivery by the two leads was excellent.  I think Michelle Williams did an especially good job, considering I have never seen her play a character like this one.  She really lets loose her inner Nerd.  My favorite scene takes place the only time Cecil and Elliot are in the bedroom together (no not that kind of scene!).  I won't spoil it except to say words can't describe the laughter!  And that is why The Baxter is one of the best movies I have ever seen.