A little known secret about Pixar, is their huge support for their local community.  Last night I attended a fund raiser premier of CARS at Pixar's studio's in Emeryville CA.  The event raised over $80,000 for our local school district!

So here are my thoughts on the movie.

Firstly, this is a fast paced and LOUD movie.  Those with sensitive ears should think about taking cotton buds to the theater.

Ok, I read some of the comments so far based on the teaser's and have to say that the animated cars are done wonderfully.  Each car really has it's own personality and although they do look a little cartoonish, Pixar has again shown that they can animate anything and bring it to life and then some.

The big race scenes are really only at the very beginning and at the very end, the majority of the movie is set in a small town "Radiator Springs" somewhere in the midwest just off Route 66.

I won't give too much away as far as the story goes, you'll need to go see it yourself for that.

The movie is packed full of very funny jokes and scenes, like the Tractor Tipping scene, and the SUV off-road bootcamp!

Visually, this movie is stunning.  I can't imagine the amount of research that went into producing this one.  Anyone who has driven I-40 near Amarillo TX will recognise the mountain ranges shaped like old Cadillac's burried nose down in the sand.  They really capture the road trip experience.  And the scenery is breath-taking.

Not being a big fan of "Larry The Cable Guy" I have to say that his performance as Mater the tow truck, was brilliant.  As one of the main characters, he was very funny and endearing.

Technically, Pixar really pushed the envelope again.  We're used to Pixar movies breaking ground in each movie, the underwater rendering in Finding Nemo, the fur rendering in Monsters Inc., etc.. In cars, it's all about the rendering of dust particles which looks super realistic and is not an easy thing to achieve.

Overall, this movie will have great appeal to a lot of people, although I personally think that The Incredibles is still my favorite.  This one might not win the Best Animated Feature award but I'm sure it will get awards for the technical aspects of the film.

Finally, I just want to thank Pixar once again for their amazing and continued support to the local community, whether it be fund raising events like last nights, or the masses of computers they donate to the schools, or the number of their employee's that regularly volunteer their freetime to work with the kids in mentoring programs.  I couldn't wish for a better neighbor.