Addendum 6/5/05  Take what you will from this powerhouse of a movie; as a fan of Sellers the Actor since childhood, I found that it inspired me to do exactly what Geoffrey Rush describes the writers as having done: try and get inside the head of Peter Sellers. WOW! I never had any idea what a troubled life he had. Rather than leaving me feeling like "what a jerk!", this disturbing film spawned my compassion and a need to understand this man for whom I feel such an affinity. But hey! I'm just a Virgo who shares her birthday with Sophia Loren.  :)

Before you watch this, might I offer this suggestion: Consider the scope of your own life: the highs, the lows, your triumphs and successes, your challenges and failures, strengths and shortcomings. The day upon day that slowly unfolds into a lifetime. Do you believe that a two-hour movie that ignored the first 20 years of your life could fairly portray the experiences, feelings and emotions that make you what you are? And who is telling your story: your best friend, worst enemy or someone in the gray in-between?

All I am saying is, give Pete a chance.

If you would know more about Sellers after viewing this, seek out the region 2 BBC dvd "The Peter Sellers Story...As He Filmed It" (Try amazon.co.uk) I'd bet money it figured heavily upon this one. The only U.S. documentary available on dvd is The Unknown Peter Sellers  End Addendum

My first reaction upon hearing that Geoffrey Rush was portraying Peter Sellers in this HBO film was one of disbelief.  There's a photo in Lewis' book, on which this movie is based, no less, where Sellers is a dead ringer for Al Pacino (but one struggles to imagine him taking on the vocal challenges posed here). Though I'm sure he's considerably taller, and, in his words, "less hairy," than Sellers, Rush brilliantly captures something about the man, as well as the other characters he has to take on in exploring Sellers' inner circle. I believe Geoffrey Rush gives one of the finest performances ever to epitomize the craft of acting here, precisely because he transcends his differences with Sellers to so convincingly evoke Peter's spirit. I agree with Blake Edwards' assessment that there were moments when "(Rush) was Peter."

Having said that, and having grown up watching Sellers' movies, I still must point out several aspects that were impossible for Rush to convey that made Peter Sellers so singular:  He was disarmingly handsome and had (in the words of his first wife) "the charm of the devil"; his voice was like Dewar's Signature, and he could vocally and physically adapt a different persona with an ease that is absolutely mind-boggling. He always made you feel his performances. Consider the scene from the first Panther movie, where Clouseau spins the globe. Watch Rush do it--and then go back and watch Sellers do it.  Peter does it with a fluid, visceral momentum that sweeps you along-then he springs back up as lithely as--dare I say it?--a panther. Rush, by comparison, is clunky and mechanical.

The production goes a long way to enhance Rush's already formidable turn, with the music and artwork well-chosen to evoke the times being portrayed. I also thought that the narrative devices--Rush playing Sellers as the characters around himself to convey his lack of identity, the car-shopping for women scene--were very effective. The pairing of music with various scenes was stupendous: "What's New, Pussycat?" with the cartoonish opening credits (given that Sellers' heart stopped 8 times during his April 1964 heart attack, the image of him as a hissing cat is particularly apropos); "Love is a Many-Splendored Thing" as Sellers meets Sophia Loren; "The Girl from Ipanema" as Sellers romps wistfully with Britt Ekland; "It's my life and I'll do what I Want" while Sellers defiantly lifts weights after the heart attack.

Rush rises from the ashes of Lewis' pathetically harsh and misdirected tome. While I have no doubt that Sellers was a troubled, tortured and frightfully self-indulgent man in his personal life, fortunately, I never had to know him in that capacity.  The Peter Sellers that most of the world will know--should know--Peter Sellers the Film Star--is a man who brought an incredible amount of laughter and joyous revelry to this planet. And I think Rush manages to make us sympathetic, but the source material is so laden with venom on every page, it's a wonder he did. In a behind-the-scenes documentary short, Rush refers to Sellers as "this man of a thousand faces"--in my opinion, a spot-on equation with the screen great whom Peter was the sounded version of--Lon Chaney.

If this very well executed film does anything, let it send you out to revisit a Sellers movie first-hand. Look at any three of his films (allowing only one Panther) and you will see three amazingly different performances (probably more). I suggest Dr. Strangelove, The Party, and A Shot in the Dark. This is a man that--warts, and all--is well worth remembering as one of the greatest actors ever.