Rating:A+
Katsuhiro Otoma is quite possibly one of the greatest writers/artists ever in the field of anime and moviemaking, and Akira shows that even the most epic of ideas can be fully accomplished with devoted time, as well as effort. Though the movie only scratches the surface, of what the comics delve into so much more deeply, the movie itself is not flawed in any aspect, and is truly the epitome of animated movies that not only has withstood the test of time, but still eclipses modern moviemaking as well. Telling the story of a biker gang that is run by the leader Kaneda, as he is accompanied by his friends, most notably Tetsuo, his best friend, who strives throughout the movie to not be treated like an inferior individual, the movie pushes you mind and imagination into areas where your emotions are grabbed from your soul and wrung out like a damp towel. As these two friends are drug through the war that is raging in Neo-Tokyo in a post-apocalyptic world in 2019, after the effects and destruction of World War 3, strong dominant politicians, and government agents emerge to fuel the fire of this amazingly multifaceted storyline.
After an accident on the outskirts of Neo-Tokyo, Tetsuo is left in shambles and taken to a hospital, where his friends are unable to get into contact with him. Tetsuo emerges with newfound "abilities" that tap into his inner psyche, and show us the true power of the human mind. Saying too much about the story would spoil too much, as truly whether you are a fan of animated movies or not, this is one movie that must be seen to be believed. Friends of mine that bashed this movie for so long, actually sat down and watched it, and came away understanding why myself and others hyped it up so much. Though it might require multiple viewings to truly understand, the emotional afteraffects, of friends torn apart at the seems, can connect with each and every one of us. However, this movie is definitely not aimed at a younger audience, and is highly recommended for mature audiences, even teenagers, who have an open mind and are willing to sit down for two and a half hours, and have their mind twisted and contorted. After walking away from the movie I dare you to say that this movie did not strike an emotional cord, as truly it is and will always remain one of the finest accomplishments in all of moviemaking, period.