This movie has to be one of my top 10 favorites. The DVD sports a music video, audio commentary, a 30 page booklet which is packed with information, still gallery, a behing the scenes featurette, and a 30th anniversary Theatrical Trailer. Also the 30th Anniversary DVD Edition of Night of the Living Dead is numbered up to 15,000 (mine being 11,451...But who cares right?) Now for the best part. You have the option to watch the 1998 director's cut with deleted scenes that arent in ANY other version OR you can watch the 30th anniversary edition with over 15 minutes of NEW footage that George A. Romero and John Russo directed exclusively for this edition and then tied it in with the original! The only downfall about this is being able to watch the deleted scenes with the 30th anniversay edition as you are with the '98 edition that's on this DVD. BUT here is ONE new scene that I would like to talk about that Mr.Romero made for the 30th anniversary. A family of 4 hits a tree with part of it going straight through the windshield. The father dies but the 2 daughters and the mother both walk out of the car and start eating the dad along with the other 10 or so zombies that come out of nowhere!!!!! You see them pull him out of the seat and a part of his brain pops out and lands on the seat! Gross? Yeah. Awesome? You bet!!! ...BUY THIS DVD!!! 30th Anniversary Edition of Night of the Living Dead is the best money I've EVER...EVER spent on a DVD. I hope that the horror fans get a chance to view this before Anchor Bay Entertainment decides not to produce it anymore and then your forced to go to Ebay and pay  A LOT more than you could have. Oh and one last thing of advice...If you are a FREAK (like me) for horror movies and you have a relative (my dad in my case) that says "Don't get Night of the Living Dead. I've seen it and it sucks! Don't waste your money on that." Oh well. I went to the mall, they had little 9.99 versions as well but, I wanted the PACKAGE DEAL! lol. I bought it and to THIS DAY I am still proving my father wrong watching the DVD like a teenage girl watching TRL :-) Well, take care and GET THIS MOVIE NO MATTER WHAT ANYBODY SAYS!!!! 8-D seeya!