This is probably the best horror TVM ever made in the US, and that's not an idle claim. Everything about this fillum - the casting, acting, scripting, photography & direction - exudes quality.

Charles Durning's performance as Otis Hazelrigg is pivotal to the success of the story and he gives one heck of good turn. His descent into ever more warped logic, dragging his co-conspirators along, and even more desperate acts as the fillum progresses is absolutely rivetting to watch. It could so easily have been overdone - a middle aged batchelor postman living in a boarding house, snooping on peoples' mail, with a dark behavioural secret [it is hinted at that Hazelrigg is known by some to be dangerous around children, to put it tactfully], handing out his own brand of redneck mob justice... BUT both the writing and the acting take these elements and conbime them subtlely for a compelling, believable and unnerving experience.

The pacing is surprisingly good for a TVM and the use of cleverly composed shots and implication of gory / violent death, rather than the vivid depiction of it [remembering that TV was far more censorial than fillum] are effectively and powerfully used.

There are some really nice twists of ironic 'justice', and scares too - the titular scarecrow appearing in the murderers' fields, marking them out for death, is a superb recurrent motif. In the finale there is even, what appears to be, a 'nod' to the 1974 TVM Killdozer, as a very large piece of driverless farm machinery pursues the breathless Hazelrigg across a pumpkin field to his brilliantly staged death.

Perhaps the only minor detraction in the whole thing is the revelation, at the very end, that the Scarecrow is 'alive' and probably personally / physically accountable for things like switching on the woodchipper, or frightening the grain mill owner to the point of locking himself in the silo, rather than Bubba's disembodied energy coming back from beyond the grave to create the circumstances of the deaths AND using the Scarecrow merely as a totem to frighten the murderers, which is the suggestion that runs throughout the fillum until the final twist, and I feel that inference was far more effective than having a Wizard of Oz style stick figure lolloping about carrying out revenge on Bubba's behalf - acting as his earthly agent.

As to the DVD, utterly superb in every way - the packaging, the print itself, have never looked better, AND this DVD is actually REGION FREE meaning it can be played without issue by English viewers such as myself.