First off, this is an OLD black and white film and the sound quality is less than great sometimes - but don't let that stop you.

Personally, I'm not all that fond of most of the songs in this film - but yet I can truly appreciate the overall strength of support for all our service men/women and alies, where the whole country did whatever they could to help - even if that was just briefly meeting trains at 3am as they passed through with service men to hand them apples or sandwiches or whatever they could and collect the letters they want to post and warm them with a smile... in that aspect, this film will both warm and break your hearts as you empathasize. It was great to know that so much food talent, time and labor was gladly donated to feed and cheer/entertain the troops and help them enjoy what they were fighting for. Women around the country spent hours baking and supplies were rationed and every penny you had counted - but they gave even when it hurt, when it wasn't convenient, when it was uncomfortable...they went way out of their way to be ready to do whatever little they could when a group of our armed forces was going to be coming through their area. Did their best to be pretty for them, make them feel welcome and cared for. And our fighting forces dug deep and gave their best.  ---- All those feelings and memories are right here to be experienced/remembered.

And in places like NY and Calif there were plenty of famous stars to help entertain like this - but many many troops never got this kind of entertainment so this film was also intended to give that to them as well so they packed in a lot of star spots.

In this movie, 3 servicemen are followed and they will likely remind you of friends, family or just the best of us in general in those times.  Maybe you'll be able to glimpse how it might have been for your father or grandfather or other relatives - or the women you know from those times.

If you watch this with emotional detachment and criticism, you're missing the experience and the whole point of watching.  It's not the best film you'll ever see, but that's not why you watch it.

Watch this for the pride, the emotions, the memories and a PEEK at our past.  I teared up with pride and compassion many times watching this.