Tangled is a animated comedy/musical film by produced by Disney and directed by Nathan Greno and Byron Howard.  It features the voice talents of Mandy Moore, Zachary Levi, Donna Murphy, Brad Garrett, as well as others.  The story is based on the old fairy tale, "Rapunzel" by the Brothers Grimm.

  The movie takes place in a royal castle during medieval times with a little girl named Rapunzel(Mandy Moore), with magical golden hair that has healing powers and can restore youth.  An evil witch who is trying to stay young, Mother Gothel, (Donna Murphy) kidnaps the child and holds her captive in a remote, elevated tower.  Rapunzel grows up believing that Gothel is her mother and has never been outside the tower as a result of her "mother" telling her the world is filled with horrible dangers.  So Rapunzel has never known anyone else except her mother and her pet Chameleon Pascal.  Every year on her birthday, as Rapunzel looks out her window, she can't help but notice an arrangement of floating lights hovering in the sky, and she can't help but feel as if the lights are meant for her.  So on her 18th birthday she plans to ask her mother to leave the tower and head for the mysterious floating lights and find out what they are.  Her mother forbids it, so Rapunzel comes up with a plan, she asks for a special kind of paint that's 3 days journey away, after which Rapunzel plans to leave the tower.  As all this is happening, we meet the narrator of the story, Flynn Rider, (Zachary Levi) a hotshot thief who had stolen a tiara from the royal castle, on the run from the castle guards, and a hyperactive horse named Maximus, he takes refuge in the same tower that holds Rapunzel.  Rapunzel frightened, knocks him out with of all things a frying pan and ties him up, she hides the tiara and when he awakes she tells him that if he agrees to take her the floating lights she will reveal the location of the tiara, he accepts, and the two set off on an adventure to the castle, all the while trying to avoid Mother Gothel, Maximus the Horse, and two old partners of Flynn who also want the tiara.  The two go through many crazy experiences meeting friends and foes as Rapunzel learns what the outside world is like and learns what love is as well.

  I was very impressed with the animation in this movie, everything seems to go together, it has bright, vibrant colors, and the special effects are beautiful and work with the movie.  I love the way they portrayed certain characters, the chameleon, Pascal, is sooo cute and is always doing silly gestures towards Flynn, although he can't speak you always know what he's trying to say, kids will love him.  I also love the way they depicted Flynn Rider, his funny faces and his eccentric personality really adds something great to the movie, he's a very likeable character, and finally, the horse Maximus, has to be my favorite.  He is a very determined horse who will stop at nothing to get his man.  The funniest thing about him is not how crazy he acts but the fact that he acts like a dog, he sniffs around on the ground, he growls, and even the characters in the movie treat him as a dog, (even saying things like "good boy, you wanna play fetch" and such) he's definitely the craziest character in the movie.

  Another thing I enjoyed in this movie was the fact that it's a musical, I grew up in the 90s when all the Disney movies had great songs to go along with them that you remembered all throughout your childhood and that is pretty much non-existent now.  Although I do love a lot of movies out nowadays I miss the musical aspect of children films.  Tangled has done a swell job of bringing that back into Disney Films and I don't know about the rest of the world, but I found that very gratifying.  My favorite ones in particular were "When will my life begin" and "I see the Light".  Although the songs in this movie weren't as amazing as say, songs from Lion King and Beauty and the Beast, they're still catchy and memorable, at least for me.

  All in all, I LOVED this movie!  it's a great addition to the long list of great Disney movie, I think both kids and adults will love it, I know I was laughing all the way through.  I recommend this to anyone who loves animated movies.