This movie was a big let-down from the very beginning, when a sign flashed on the screen stating that the movie had been modified from it's original content. I was tempted to change videos, but my wife insisted upon giving it a chance. By the time the movie was about half-way through, she had fallen asleep. I was tempted to do the same, but decided to endure to the very end so that I might be able to write a short review.

Why so many people have given this movie a positive review is probably because of the society we live in. People are obnoxious & cannot get through the day without a cellphone. I don't even know why it's called "Sugar." Perhaps, these are the same sort of people who get excited by watching fresh paint dry. I tried to find positive things to say about "Sugar" but there are so few things to rave about. I will start with the positive side, first.

The acting in this movie is very good; realistic and convincing. I just wondered where the producers found so many Dominicans and Puerto Ricans could act so well. The setting is also very realistic, probably because it was filmed on location. And the plot, or storyline, was natural and easy to follow. It's just a boring movie.

"The Sopranos" on HBO was very graphic due to copious sex and violence, but the series wasn't propelled to such heights on that alone. Each of the characters were multidimensional and intriguing. You followed them along, week after week, until they got whacked. After the series ended it was modified for television. The F-word was replaced by thousands of "friggins" and the girls at the Bada Bing danced in bikinis instead of topless. In short, the TV version of "The Sopranos" was like eating a pizza without the cheese. That is what I feel may have happened to "Sugar" by modifying it down from an "R" to a mediocre "PG" rating.

"Sugar" is a movie on the same level as "About Schmidt" as far as excitement and intrigue are concerned except for only one thing; "Sugar" didn't have any actors even close to the level of a Jack Nicholson; an actor so compelling that his mere presence more often than not will make even the lousiest movie worth watching. The plot in "Sugar" was insignificant and boring. In "About Schmidt," Nicholson could take a mundane line and say it in such a way that defined his entire character. There was no such instance in "Sugar."

When Sugar arrived in the U.S., he stayed with an old couple in Kansas. They gave him the run of the house with only two rules; no alcohol and no women. That would have been a perfect opportunity for the movie to become compelling, but nothing happened. He got thrown out of a game for throwing the ball at the batter, but nothing ever became of it. He was also given drugs which helped him to pitch a couple of great innings, but nothing came of that. Finally, he loses complete confidence in himself and decides to become an illegal alien by moving to New York. Nothing ever became of that.

This morning, when my wife woke up, she asked me how the movie ended. "The movie ends with Sugar playing sandlot baseball in New York City with a bunch of other illegal aliens." She was happy that she didn't lose any sleep over such a lousy movie. This is a movie that you would have to pay me before I'd watch it again. Even then, I'd watch it while working a crossword puzzle in my lap.

My recommendation: DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME & MONEY ON THIS VIDEO. WATCHING PAINT DRY IS A FAR MORE PRODUCTIVE WAY TO SPEND YOUR TIME.