It is the best film ever made about The Arthurian Legend and is likely to remain so.  Sir Thomas Malory would love this film.

This fantasy spectacle is extremely well done.  The picturesque renaissance-style armor is very romantic and Pre-Raphaelite.  Though the armor is not of "Arthur's time", one could not imagine these knights wearing anything else.

There is clanking and banging of sword against sword, sword against armor, and men wearing armor riding around on horses wearing armor.  There is armor everywhere!  Perhaps hundreds of suits of armor were made for the film.

And the costumes are beautiful.  Flowing gowns and dazzling jewelry - why don't women dress like this all the time?  The Lady of the Lake is perfect and Pre-Raphaelite.

By the way, if you are a Helen Mirren fan, she has never looked better and she is dressed to kill.

One cannot imagine a Merlin that is not Nicol Williamson or a Morgana that is not Helen Mirren after seeing this.  They were terrific. (Their chemistry on screen was aided by a personal feud going on in real life at the time, according to Boorman.)

The music in the film is remarkable.  Dark and moody classical passages, ethereal vocals, and brass fanfares. All enhance the fantasy.

Some notes:

This story is basically a pagan myth.  Malory's version adds Christian aspects to the story.  The saints among the magic and potions of the Druids doesn't really make sense.  To take a sword that is empowered by a Druid spell and knight someone in the name of St. George, St. Michael, and God isn't logical.  It seems that Christian aspects were imposed on the original story.  Some think that Malory was commissioned to Christianize the Arthurian Legend, though there is no proof.  I only mention this as a possible explanation why these things are mixed together.

J.R.R. Tolkien stated in an interview that he believed the whole story to be a prank by the French.  Also, it was one of his motivations for writing "The Lord of the Rings" and "The Hobbit".

In closing, I want to say that no facts will ever get in the way of this story.  This is a wonderful story and a wonderful film.

Now, it's available on Blu-Ray. <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000JLSLZG">Excalibur [HD DVD</a>]