As I watched the Atomic Cafe I was reminded of my visit to the Titan Missle Museum just south of Tucson, AZ, USA -  Jan 2003. During that visit (Completely open to public - $6) our guide noted that the 100 foot missle in the silo was once armed with a 9 Megaton nuclear warhead (600x more powerful than each bomb dropped on Japan). There were about 50 Titans in silos back then, now all concreted (Except the museum) over due to newer technology (oh sorry - weapons of mass destruction).  As I looked down the silo for the first time and saw the missle there with my own eyes, my opinion of mankind instantly went in the toilet.

What sort of idiocy would lead a society to create such large and so many WMD? A few for preventative measures (Of smaller size)- ok. Enough to blow up the world dozens of times? Lunacy.  Later I found out the Russians tested a 50 Megaton bomb (Look it up).  Of course today, we don't build them as large, but there are a heck of a lot more in total and coverage (submarines) and more dangerous (MIRVs).  Watching this video at times made me ashamed to even call myself a human.  We are just self-glorifying apes aren't we? Prone to mass hysteria, fear, greed via the military -industrial complex, and riding the wave of inertia I suppose. Stock markets, genocides, and fads come to mind.

Having been born in the 1970s I personally could not identify with the hilarious duck and cover scenes.  I still can't get the turtles out of my head.  I grew up in a generation where our idea of nuclear war is Terminator and T2 and an occassional TV special on a nuclear holocaust.

Since early 2003 I have seen the destruction caused (And rebuilding) in Hiroshima, Japan, the Los Alamos Museum, and have driven across New Mexico - passing near Trinity. Also the Int'l Spy Museum in WA DC which has a section on nuclear espionage. Next up - the Nevada Test Site! www.atomictraveler.com is a good site.

This video is a wonderful insight into the mindset back then. I wonder how many thought - maybe I wouldn't want to be alive. So much thought on fallout shelters. Why bother? Party till you drop! The video was actually too "painful" to watch after 30 minutes - I had to stop and watch the rest later. An odd combination of humor and sadness.  The Atomic Cafe is much better than over-rated Radio Bikini. Some scenes in Atomic Cafe are duplicated in Radio Bikini too.

The funny thing is, with all the ignorance (Of existing nuclear weapons in existence), fear-mongering, talk of WMD prevention despite huge existing stockpiles of our own, use of new 20k pound convential bombs, paranoia, etc, it makes me wonder how much farther we actually have (or haven't) come since the 50s and 60s.