In the early 70's, Telly Savalas stared as Lieutenant Theo Kojak in his own cop-drama series. The first season is now released on DVD; it set contains all 22 episodes on 3 disks. It is full frame and list at about 1118 minutes.

1) Siege of Terror - Kojak has just a few hours to free hostages.

2) Web of Death - A cop, Nick Ferro, kills his wife's lover and tries to cover it up.

3) One for the Morgue - Kojak is apprehensive of anonymous tips implicating an underworld boss.

4) Knockover - A murder victim's diamond ring compounds a routine homicide case with that of a million-dollar robbery.

5) Girl in the River - Kojak fears the strangler of seven women has returned when

a girl dies in a bizarre manner.

6) Requiem for a Cop - Kojak has 48-hours to prevent the dishonor of his old friend.

7) The Corrupter - Kojak investigates a jewelry store owner's murder.

8) Dark Sunday - The murder of a car thief reveals clues to a $500,000 heist.

9) Conspiracy of Fear - Kojak tries to halt a development project until he can solve a murder.

10) Cop in a Cage - Kojak's niece is a target on her wedding day.

11) Marker to a Dead Bookie - Kojak pretends to be corrupt in order to catch a drug dealer.

12) Last Rites for a Dead Priest -A jewel thief disguises himself as a priest to pull off a multi-million dollar heist.

13) Death is Not a Passing Grade - After Kojak embarrasses a student he takes one of Kojak's item of Kojak's and leaves it at a crime scene.

14) Die Before They Wake - A prostitute holds the key to solving the murders of her roommate and a TV reporter.

15) Deliver Us Some Evil - A small time thief arranges a big-time robbery in-order to escape a pending murder charge.

16) Eighteen Hours of Fear - A woman smuggles two twenty dollar plates.

17) Before the Devil Knows - A thief steals a million dollars in US Government bonds.

18) Dead on His Feet - A detective conceals his terminal illness from everyone while pursuing his partner's murderer.

19) Down a Long and Lonely Road - A young psychologist goes to Kojak for help after her fianc&eacute;e.

20) Mojo - Kojak goes undercover as a chemist.

21) Therapy in Dynamite - A psychopathic bomber targets people who hurt his friends.

22) The Only Way Out - A man enlists Kojak for help in locating his missing father and winds up on the trail of $25 million.