"3 stars"--  A Bestseller Discovered

Jayson wrote on 08/14/2006:

I kept seeing this movie listed on the bestseller charts for the past two months. It has stayed steady between #2 and #4 and in time, my curiosity was struck pretty heavily. So, without anymore hesitation, I placed an order and waited for the "secret" to arrive on my doorstep. It did not take long before I discovered why it has been a bestseller-- its actually good enough to merit such. The movie starts out like something we have seen time and time again but just as you think you have things pinned down-- Wrong. The secret to this film is its true originality. Very well-done from start to finish. This is like a Disney Mystery Movie turned naughty. So much fun. Story/Writing: B+ Acting/Characters: B Film Direction, Editing, etc: A Soundtrack: B- Overall: B I think I know what to get some of my friends for Christmas this year. Such a guilty pleasure in every way. THUMBS UP!!!!

"3 1/2 stars"--  too awesome

Eric Joseph wrote on 08/13/2006:

For a movie with little budget, this film is awesome! From the very first scene, I was hooked. Not only is it full of total hotties (most appearring in the movie naked at least once!), but the story is great. Everytime I thought I had someone/something figured out, another loop was thrown into the path of things. Moer gay movies need to be like this-- erotic but with a solid story and good talent. Mind, while all the young actors were terrific, some of the adult actors playing parents and stuff came across a little forced. But, easily putting that aside, overall loved the movie so much!

"Made me smile"

MonkeyBones Jason wrote:

Cute film with a dark side. Made me smile all the way through. Some very nice storytelling here along with very likeable characters for the most part. The relationship at the core of the story with Devon and Brian is very nice. I enjoyed seeing it start from awkward tension and grow into much more by the end. Some of the supporting characters are terrific and do deserve larger roles in any upcoming projects they may be a part of. To add to it all, the erotic aspect of the film is very pleasing. It is so great to see a gay film with erotic content done in a tasteful way. I enjoy how it shows you a lot sexually, but at the same time leaves that much more to the imagination. Definetely hotter than a lot of previous films of its kind. I am so glad I added this film to my library.

"Want the soundtrack! Twisted"

Eeeks its me!!! wrote:

Totally original and twisted movie so much different than what I expected. Very cool to see so many storylines intersecting. No one is quite who they seem to be by the end of the film. The bad guy is such a SLEAZE. Great job!!! You go on a journey with every character as the mysteries are revealed. I totally love the soundtrack. If there is a way to get the cd I would love to. This is a very fun movie to share with friends.

"easy arousal deluxe"

CourtMonster wrote:

Putting it plain and simple-- by the end of this movie, I needed a big bottle of lotion and an empty room! The countless eye-candy in the movie can be blamed for that! This is how I like my movies. Sideline Secrets is the perfect blend of eroticism, twists and more. If you like erotic films that push the boundaries with their sex scenes but still come across very tasteful, this is one to get. It is not porn (which is a very good thing), so dont be mistaken if that is your cup of tea. The teenage characters all feel very real. Devon's confusion, depression, timidness to accept happiness is all legit. He is the persona of what a lot of young kids, coming out with their sexuality, not in the best atmosphere, experience. The characters' emotions and personalities are all accurate and feel real because of it. I for one would love to see a sequel. I think there is a lot of story we dont know yet as a viewer. Yes-- why is Devon's mom eastern european? Does the villian come back? Is there more to Nicole and Andrew that we don't know about yet? What truly happens with Devon and Brian's romance? I like to think they are all questions that are left open for a sequel! Turn off the lights, grab a pillow and enjoy. You won't be disappointed. Oh-- and its always good to have that big bottle of lotion and an empty room available in case anything "comes up"!!!

"Cool Combination"

Trey wrote:

I liked this movie a lot. My favorite scenes were the ones between Devon and Brian at home. It is a cute romance movie but also a mystery/thriller. It was cool how the two were combined. Not too crazy about the actors playing the parents, but the younger actors playing the teenagers all do good. I think the ending wraps things up a bit too quick... would have been cool to see more thrills at the end. But, it all works well. I recommend it to everyone to see at least once.

A must see!!!

michaeltheloveofyourlife wrote:

I think a lot of people might say this is a bad movie, but knowing this is a low budget film and having limited resources, this movie is pretty good. I got this video yesterday, and I have watched it 4 or 5 times in 2 days. Obviously something in this movie got my attention, and no, it was not the sex scenes or nudity. It definitely has a good story, so I am totally recommending seeing it at least once. You just have to take into account that this movie doesn't have the budget or resources of a blockbuster movie.

Worth a Load

PaulSanderson274 wrote:

This movie is loads of fun! It is truly a "little engine that could"! It is easy to point finger and knock down points for a film because it is low budget and stuff, but there really isn't much room to do so with this one. Sideline Secrets takes a few seeds and manages to plant an entire orchard. What I am saying is the fact that this film does best with what it has and in the end it comes out as a true winner. The actors are great. All adorable! I think we will be seeing some of them in bigger projects in the near future as they clearly have a passion and comfort for what they do. The story is very dark. It touches upon a lot of controversial subject matter involving molestation, rape, physical abuse, alcoholism, and more. But, dont get too frightened, although much of the subject matter is serious, the movie knows how to tie it all into a somewhat complicated yet very entertaining story. The romantic story at the core in nice to see. I am glad to see movies like this climbing the charts (right now being #2 on this site). For me it is no wonder why. Sideline Secrets truly is a gem to be found for many.

Enjoyable

Greggymark wrote:

James Townsend is a very talented writer and extremely cute as well! I thoroughly enjoyed this totally original film. Despite the lack of a Hollywood budget, the script and the ever present eye-candy kept me interested. I look forward to seeing future films from this up and coming talent. Did I mention how CUTE he is?

I want seconds!

ModelKid wrote:

I think I was drooling from start to finish with this movie. The story is kind of dark and twisted but it is presented light. It kind of reminded me of a teen disney movie turned very naughty. I liked that! The boys are all really hot. There is a big variety of guys.. you have your twinks, jock, college guy, etc. There is something for everyone. I like how the nudity and sex scenes all have a strong purpose in the film. They all go with the story unlike a lot of other movies in this genre that just like to toss in some bad nudity/sec to make up for an even worse story. I can name a lot of those. Sideline Secrets is way above this. There is A LOT of nudity in this movie, but it all fits perfectly. *drool*. The filmmakers know what they are doing here and have made a really fun and well-done movie. I want seconds of this!Overall Grade: A.

And how come we never get to see the guy's ____ ?!

SublimeMediaMan wrote:

SIDELINE SECRETS is a lighthearted mystery/romance that knows, for its own good, not to take itself too seriously! Poking fun at itself, in good manner, with dialogue such as "and how come we never get to see the guy's dick?!" then cutting to a full frontal shower shot.... venturing into campy Nancy Drew type mystery and much more, it is a very entertaining piece of work. The young actors all have something great going for them! James Townsend comes across very natural as the innocent high schooler struggling with realizations of himself. Brandon Alexander is hysterical as the drag queen. Summer Smith steals every scene, as the comedic and very "open" lesbian friend... Sarah Kelly has a presence about her that makes you want to have her as your best fag-hag! She is beyond sweet and possesses something many young hollywood actresses lack. Reading reviews on other sites, some people have made comment of certain adult characters being a little weak. But, I have to disagree, the film isnt necessarily about the adults, but moreso about how the teens view their changing world, and react to the pressures thrown against them. The adults may seem a little distant, out of character, but it works for me! The films does its best with what it has to work with. Obviously the budget was very low, but in many scenes, you would have no clue of such. The film is done very professionally with a lot of attention to detail. Pay close attention to a pink squirrel that pops up in unexpected places, the pink color schemes to much of the film, etc. I have a feeling that in the years to come, In The Pink Productions will be a studio to keep a very close eye on. They will be doing some great stuff once they have the resources to do so... As for the erotic content in the film... simply stated-- HOT HOT HOT!!! You may have some trouble containing yourself...

"Great fun and cute bodies"

DVDwhore wrote:

A very pleasant surprise! Although not perfect, the film, coming from the small budget it does, and managing to make use of everything in a very collaborative effort, is great fun! "Sideline Secrets" is one of those wonderful films you can toss on in the company of a bunch of friends and just have fun with. It has been awhile since I have enjoyed a film of such level in such a long time. I very much enjoyed everything about it. What starts out as a sweet coming-of-age tale of the adorable Devon (James Townsend) coming to terms with his sexuality amongst the pressures of his girlfriend (Sarah Kelly) and high school, soon takes a turn into being a campy mystery that keeps you guessing till the end. No one is really quite who they seem-- as each character possesses some secret of their own, one way or another. The challenge of keeping the film light, yet dealing with such dark subject matter is handled with much intellect. For, the film is full of wonderful comedic and romantic moments. Yet, it also deals with serious issues such as rape, molestation, sexual abuse and more. You find yourself falling in love with the characters... feeling their happiness, sadness and fears. The young cast is terrific! I can easily see a number of the actors (both male and female) moving on to much larger films in the future. This film does indeed possess much talent. The chemistry between the characters of Devon (Townsend) and Brian (Alex Wilson) is terrific as you watch their relationship grow from awkward nervousness, to first-love romance. Perfect pair! On another level, the film does contain quite a bit of nudity. It is all very well done and is not afraid to explore the issue. Some of the nudity/sexual situations are erotic, downright HOT!!! showing just enough, leaving much to the imagination-- very typical of scenes you would see in something like a Queer as Folk episode... while others are included to make you feel a sense of dread and discomfort for those involved-- not afraid to show it all, and in thus push forth a sense of pure reality. It works amazingly, hitting its target each time. I must say, it is nice to see strong story lines willing to cross the erotic-line without becoming full-fledged porn. We are seeing it more and more lately. So many straight-films get away with it-- take it for granted. It is time, that gay cinema gets its share as well in such a caliber as this. On a negative level, the film does suffer some sound problems-- which is typical of such low-budget films. However, it does not take away from the story at all. There may be a word here and there that doesn't exactly match up with the actors moving lips, and you may encounter the buzz of room ambiance in a scene, yet it is nothing to worry about. This too happens in many big-budget films. On another note, it would have been great to see more of a relationship between Brian and his best friend, Shawn, who pops into the movie every once in awhile. The movie is also filled with plenty of homages, tributes (whatever they may be called) to a lot of pop culture, films, icons, etc. Very nice touches that add to the fun... I definitely had to giggle in seeing that the film takes place in Ciccone, CA... (Ciccone, correct me if I am wrong-- being Madonna's last name?)... there are quite a few David Lynch references (streets, the way the nightclub is presented in subtitles in the earlier part of the film, etc), and an Adam & Eve type idea where Devon and Brian share an apple before all hell breaks loose in the story!!! All subtle touches that easily bring a smile. Overall, Sideline Secrets is great! I can't wait to get this movie and watch it with friends. So, when is the sequel?!

Very Good Sexual Identity Thriller

Art wrote:

I saw this film as screener and it was very good. The story has a number of plot twist that are unexpected which definately keeps the viewers interest. The lead character, Devon, is struggling with his sexual identity, while also dealing with a turbulant home life due to an evil step-father. Though there is plenty of nudity in this film, it is not the nudity that makes this one a stand-out effort for Director Steven Vasquez and Screenwriter James Townsend, who also plays the lead role. The storyline takes some unexpected turns, that you will have to get this one to see how Devon fairs in the end. Does he get the boy or does he fall victim to the evil around him? I give this one three and a half stars.

Impressed

MovieWatcher1383 wrote:

I wasn't sure what to expect when it came to watching "Sideline Secrets". A friend had invited me to a screening of the film in Los Angeles, and to say the least my expectations were low for a film of its scale. Boy, was I wrong! For a low-budget film, this one breaks the boundaries. It seems to start out like your typical coming-of-age story, but right when you think you have it pegged and are ready to fall into familiar boredom, it takes a completly different turn again and again. Full of steamy romance, comedy, thrills and more, "Sideline Secrets" has become a perfect movie for a night in with the boys. Sit back, relex, have a few drinks and be ready to have a lot of fun. Also-- be on the lookout for cameos by several adult-models such as the Fisher Twins of Miami studios, Brandon Paradine and more. This is one HOT movie!!!