While not the best Gundam series out there, Gundam 00 was a fairly entertaining show that used concepts found in past successful Gundam series such as the acclaimed Zeta Gundam and ever popular Gundam Wing, but the same cannot be said for the movie. The plot is your typical alien invasion storyline that could have been as entertaining as other well known Hollywood films such as Independence Day, but it is bogged down by many, many problems that prevents it from achieving that goal.

As stated before, the movie picks up a few years after the events of season 2 with humans realizing that there is an approaching threat of an unknown alien life-form called the ELS that threatens to invade and conquer the Earth. But even with this plot set-up, the story itself is almost non-existent and the only thing that helps to move the plot is the eventual arrival of these aliens on Earth and the constant jibber jabber of a pending invasion made by minor characters. If you had watched seasons 1 and 2 of the series, you would know that there were also several plot elements that had been unexplained in the anime regarding the background of the story and it had been heavily hinted throughout the end of the tv series that it would be explained and resolved in the movie, but no mention of it is made at all (with the exception of the ELS) leading to several major plot holes.

The majority of the returning characters themselves don't even seem to serve any real purpose besides being present in the movie. Two returning characters from the tv series were used to show how ordinary people could be dragged into conflicts that they believe that wouldn't effect them, but I seriously cannot explain their purpose for being in this film besides them being present. The new characters don't add much to the plot and they wouldn't have affected the plot much if they didn't appear either. One of the new characters introduced to this movie was heavily advertised as a major character and a potential antagonist before the film's release in Japan, but he ends up being killed off in the middle of the film with only around a few minutes screentime in total, with none of it spent developing him at all. The last major problem I had with this film was its ending, as its abrupt deus ex machina ending provides no closure at all to the entire story or its characters. The bonus epilogue after the credits (which is like a 50 year jump into the future) leaves a lot to be desired as it just makes you assume the majority of the cast is either old as hell or dead, with the exception of a few characters that are shown. Season 2 ended well enough on letting you know what happened to cast, why couldn't they do the same for this movie?

Despite these major flaws, the Gundam 00 does have some highlights. The production values are stunning and the mecha battles themselves are great fun to watch. The scenes that introduced and showed off the Brave mobile suits were probably the among the only scenes in the film that I was rather impressed with.

Don't go into watching this film expecting the same level of depth as the series was as it is severely lacking any sort of depth or intrigue to set it apart. The only thing that is worth watching in this movie is its excessive battle scenes that takes place in the second half of the film. I suggest only watching it if you are a huge fan of 00 or a completionist, otherwise, pretend that Gundam 00 ended at season 2 and that this sad excuse of a movie never existed.  It really is a shame that the Gundam franchise has fallen so low with the release of this movie after 30 years since the release of the original series. Older Gundam iterations had dark storylines that dealt with mature themes such as racism, corruption and the horrors of war while this movie disregards all of what made the franchise so famous in the first place. The previous well known Gundam movie, Char's Counterattack, was able to couple together a dark storyline that incorporated all the mature themes of the franchise which also included exciting action scenes and astounding production values that led to a rather enjoyable movie, despite some flaws. Awakening of a Trailblazer does not even try to utilize anything that could have made it a compelling movie from its predecessors. Instead, it chose the route that all recent movies have seemed to take, produce a movie on high budget with amazing production values, but in turn disregarding the plot entirely, leading to an inconsistent and incredibly weak storyline that constantly shoves a forced theme of "understanding each other leads to peace" down your throat that can only be enjoyed by individuals with a brain capacity of a monkey.