I just finished watching the movie on Netflix and have added it to my wishlist here on Amazon.  Although at times I thought Campbell Scott's narration was a little tedious by the end it became very clear how important it was to the movie and I got over it.

I won one battle with cancer about 15 years ago and I am now waging my second.  I completely understand the main character's need to go on the run for awhile.  There are certain events in a person's life where the need to be alone is is often a person's best course.  A terminal cancer diagnosis, a divorce, a death in the family are all times when a person needs to have time to evaluate what it all means and to try to make decisions about his or her future.  Does the person go on a bender and stay drunk for awhile?  Does he or she seek counsel from friends, family, clergy, shrink?  Does the person go on a quest to complete their bucket list?  In the movie his choice was to take a motorcycle trip to help him decide his next move.  The decision to get treatment was his and his alone.  His diagnosis was terminal.  All of the sympathy in the world from family and friends was not going to make the situation go away.  Some of the reviewers thought he was being selfish.  His fiance and family were the selfish ones.  It was his life and he had to face it in his own way.  This was also a trip of discovery wherein he found that he didn't really love his fiance and to continue with her would have led to a life of misery.  She was very regimented in her life, clinging to routine.  He wasn't and didn't.  She would have loved him to the end but, as was pointed out in the movie, his love for her was waning, something he discovered during his travels.  There would have been no happily ever after ending here.

We don't know if kissing the Stanley Cup or finally seeing the (his) Grump led to a miraculous recovery nor do we know if he got treatment.  We know he lived long enough to write his book.

I took no offense to Christ giving him the finger.  He had no relationship with the church and, later after he had received his diagnosis, I'm sure he felt that God and his surrogate had given him the finger.  I know I felt that way when I had my first cancer diagnosis and I still feel that way the second time around.

Overall I thought the movie was excellent and I will watch it again.