Layer Cake is a complicated movie with, oddly enough, many layers.  You really need a scorecard with this type of movie.  There's the gang lead by Daniel Craig (unnamed in the movie, and credited as a string of X's), which tends to use the services of a higher up gang lead by Jimmy Price (Kenneth Cranham), with Colm Meaney (Gene) the contact between the two gangs, most of the time.  Jimmy's tossed Craig two business opportunities, one a "favor" and the other more in line with Craig's business.  The "favor" involves tracking down the missing daughter of a powerful "friend" of Jimmy's (the girls done a "runner" from a drug rehab center; this powerful "friend" has a gang of his own, though he is more mainstream than the others, most of them, though, including Craig, have legitimate covers).  The business opportunity involves Duke's gang (lead by Duke - Jamie Foreman).  Duke's gang of amateur's is trying to break into the business, and have something like a million pills for sale.  Pills they acquired in Amersterdam from another gang.  Pill's they stole from this "Serbian" gang (I believe that's what they kept calling that gang), and the Amersterdam gang has sent off a hired killer named Dragon (maybe that's the Serbian) to get the pills back and "settle" matters (he is known for taking heads).

Well, Craig's the main focus of the movie and is currently working on two jobs (both for Jimmy's gang).  He has sent off two others (whose connection to Craig I didn't figure out, though I believe they are contract workers) to search for the girl, while Craig personally handles the Duke business (with backing from people from Jimmy's gang, including his right hand man Colm Meaney).  Another gang enters the picture in the form of the buyers from "up north," Trevor's gang (Trevor - played by Louis Emerick).  Craig's character is a well-organized business like guy that doesn't particularly like guns.  Jimmy is an older guy with odd tendencies to curse, but he is another one that believes that the drug trade should be handled like a business.  Duke's gang has the loud, flashy, somewhat disorganized style of operations.  Jimmy's "friend" is more mainstream than Jimmy, but still a criminal (his "gang members" are ex-military personnel).  The other two gang's, Trevor's and the Amerstadam one, are harder to determine.

The acting is superb, not a bad apple in the bunch.  The plot is strong and has, as the saying goes, many layers.  The setting is interesting, showing a side of London I do not normally see (along with scenes from other locations).  And the music is good.  Overall, I would give the movie 4.38 stars.  The movie is directed by Matthew Vaughn and written by J.J. Connelly based on his book.

I had gone to see this movie because it starred Daniel Craig, an individual with Bond rumors surrounding him (that he could be the individual playing the 007 role in the next Bond movie, Casino Royale).  I came away with the impression that Craig could adequately play the Bond role, though he would have a harder looking face (more weathered) than has played the part in the past.  There are even moments in the movie where Craig with a gun looks very much like Bond.

- Michael S. Briggs -