Outrageous, wild and intense fun. The best comedy i own is also the best mockumentary and the best "cult" classic in my collection, all in one. My devotion for this masterpiece is so great, that i can't help to rejoice in every view, over the misadventures of the intellectually challenged, charming, goofy and charismatic members of the Cult British heavy metal band, legendary "Spinal Tap". Actually, and i don't know why, it gets funnier after every show. Amazing! After years of intense exposure to this movie, my emotions still run faster and higher than ever.

In 1982, TV commercial director Marty Dibergi (Director Rob Reiner) is filming the first U.S. tour in years of the cult band Spinal Tap, featuring David St Hubbins (Michael Mc Kean)in guitar, Nigel Tufnel (Christopher Guest) also in guitar, and Derek Smalls (Harry Shearer) on bass guitar, for the promotion of their new album "Smell the glove". Witness the most goofy and entertaining way in wich a tour goes down, when all possible things that can go wrong, got worst. Please watch the interviews with their stories and "insightful" opinions, their history (From a R&B skiffle band to psychedelic hippies), the discography ("intravenous de Milo", "Shark Sandwich"), the disastrous live performances, the song lyrics and music, the problems with their neurotic manager Ian Faith (Tony Henpra), David's girlfriend tryin to take over the band, and the outrageous issues with publicity and disc Company (promotions and the new LP cover). The most amazing thing, the cast actually composed and recorded the soundtrack on studio, so they actually "rock" their instruments. Check the early 80's aesthetics in heavy metal, the costumes, the stage designs, the music and lyrics! Totally absent minded and sexualy liberated!

This is a non stop "trip" over a decaying, going-nowhere group of misfits, and we can laugh with the band and at the band. This improvised free style circus got all the elements to crack your jaw out of pure laughter. Elegant, well balanced and masterful conception, and definetly not a fart or pie-in-face comedy, the ultimate mockumentary rocked even the heavy metal world, wich at first thought the band existed (!). The most hylarious experience of my life without a doubt, came out of the absurdities of the world of the music industry, the stage rehearsals, the backstage and the lockers room of a traveling band going down the drain. What a masterpiece, what a concept, such originality and genious all over the place and in every single aspect. Flawless, this is a 5 star Icon in film history, and beyond any known 80's or 90's comedy untill today. Only Coen brothers "Raising Arizona" could pull me out of these hypnotic sequences of hilarious disasters. Rob reiner's (the princess bride, stand by me, when harry met sally) best work, absolutely genious, high artistic quality gem.

The MGM 2000 DVD edition, wich i own, may not be perfect in sound and picture quality, but is THE edition: All the available possible material about Spinal Tap is included, Over an hour of deleted scenes enough to make another paralel movie, Tv spots, interviews, gags, music videos... 80 % of the actual DVD disc capacity is used on extras! What can i say!

The DVD menu presentation is Hilarious with the reunited cast playing the band's characters, and the cast and director commentaries based on the same are simply a bonus comedy of its own, simply out of this world, incredible. What a movie, what an edition!

I LOVE THIS MOVIE!  ROCK AND ROOOOOOOOOOOLL!!!!!