Until recently no DVD of Island of Lost Souls was available in the United States. But last year, Criterion brought out one that lives up to the high standards we have come to expect of its products. The DVD has been mastered using several sources, including a 35mm studio library nitrate print held by the UCLA Film and Television Archive. The release also includes useful supplementary material, including a booklet with an essay by Christine Smallwood, a video presentation on the film by horror genre expert David J. Skal, and the audio commentary by Gregory Mank.
Island of Lost Souls has acquired quite a lurid reputation. Even Amazon's Editorial Review calls it a "twisted treasure." Why? First, the movie deals, although rather hazily, with creative biological engineering. Second, Island of Lost Souls had the bad luck to be repudiated by H.G. Wells, the author of the movie's source, the novel The Island of Doctor Moreau. Ironically, Murders in the Rue Morgue, released earlier in the same year, was both far more sensationalistic--featuring the efforts of Dr. Mirakle (Bela Lugosi) to mate his 500lb ape, Erik, with a human female--and even less faithful to its source. But Edgar Allan Poe wasn't around to complain.
Island of Lost Soul's strong point is atmosphere, and this was largely the result of Karl Struss's evocative soft focus cinematography and Hans Dreier's striking decor. At its best, the movie achieves an almost surrealistic feeling of estrangement from everyday reality. Following characters stalking through the film's shadowy, ominous tropical settings, we might feel we are wandering through the corridors of the Parisian hotel in Jean Cocteau's Blood of a Poet much more than watching a Hollywood horror flick. The problem is the film doesn't go far enough, not that it goes too far.
With one important exception, the cast is not one of the movie's strengths. The exception is, of course, the extraordinary Charles Laughton in the role of Dr. Moreau. Playing opposite him as the hero is Richard Arlen, a sympathetic if rather leaden performer. Yet Arlen's plainspoken manner, open face, and straight-arrow personality made him an ideal foil for Laughton, with his extravagant gestures and theatrical, nervously fluid style of delivery. If Laughton is Marcel Proust's Charlus as a mad scientist, Arlen is Hemingway's Nick Adams adrift in the South Pacific.
In his second film for Paramount, Laughton gives a sui generis interpretation of the mad scientist figure. In his next assignment, Laughton would become a movie icon with his performance as Nero in Cecil B. DeMille's Sign of the Cross, and Moreau seems a dress rehearsal for the later role. Where Bela Lugosi did mad scientists--for example, Dr. Mirakle or Roxor in Chandu the Magician--as melodramatic villains, Laughton as Moreau is a mad scientist who is truly mad--a truly mad actor, it might be added. Just as Laughton would portray Nero as a deranged poet who plays at being god, he plays Moreau as a scientific pariah who acts out the role of mad scientist. In this way, Laughton brought a dimension of irony to the American screen hitherto conspicuous by its absence.
Island of Lost Souls starts off as an exotic adventure picture when the shipwrecked merchant seaman Edward Parker (Richard Arlen) is rescued by the crew of the SS Covena, but it quickly changes to tropical Gothic when the action shifts to Moreau's island, populated by a race of mutant beings created by the doctor. Moreau is quite evidently attracted to the hunky Parker, whom he tries to induce to remain by disingenuously introducing him to Lota, The Panther Woman (Kathleen Burke). Although most of Moreau's creations resemble hairy apes, Lota looks as if she is auditioning for a bit part in a Maria Montez jungle epic.
 Unfortunately, matters become more complicated when Parker's fianc&eacute; Ruth (Leila Hyams) shows up to take him back to civilization. After Moreau sends one of his creatures into Ruth's bedroom to abduct her, Parker and his associates decide to leave immediately. But Moreau now orders a creature to kill the captain who is going to take the party away. This order, however, contradicts one of the injunctions Moreau has imposed on his homegrown populace--not to spill blood. When the Beast Folk (to use one of Wells's terms) find out, they rise up, set fire to the buildings, seize Moreau, and vivisect him in the House of Pain where he has carried out his experiments.
Old horror films often have somewhat ambiguous endings, but Island of Lost Souls has an unequivocally apocalyptic one. As flames rage in the background, Parker and Ruth manage to escape to a boat with the help of Moreau's assistant Montgomery (Arthur Hohl). The latter warns them not to look back, and the end titles come up. On this enchanted isle, everything turns out to be a lethal mirage. Lota, the island siren, is no human at all, and Moreau's infatuation with Parker leads to the mad scientist's demise. Horror swallows up the allure of the exotic.
Let me add a few parting words. First of all, Bela Lugosi shows up in a small, but memorable part, as one of the creatures. Sadly, his face is almost entirely covered with hair, but the voice is unmistakable. Second, I would wholeheartedly endorse what another reviewer wrote about the astounding picture and sound quality of this Blu-ray DVD. For anyone who can play Blu-ray DVDs, and who loves old movies, it's well worth the few additional dollars.