House by the cemetery is not a solid horror film by all means, and really will end up only on the shelves of Fulci or Italian Exploitation Devotees (most likely one and the same) such as myself. The casual horror-goer has much to be put off by, which I will get into in a moment.
First, I feel I should summarize a bit on the best period of Fucli's filmmaking, which spanned Zombi 2 to House by the Cemetery. Zombi 2 starts the 'series' off with a bang, delivering shocks and style and the best zombies ever to appear on celluloid (fx maestro Giannetto Di Rossi never even topped himself). The film was a more traditional zombie film in the sense that it took place in the Carribean and keeps with the feel, if not the facts, of vodun zombies. The second film, which is the first of his 'zombie trilogy', was City of the Living Dead. Here, Fulci shifts gears from the table he set in Zombi 2 and starts a series that is more united and share several character traits. The Gates of Hell have opened and the dead have begun to walk the earth. The story is scattered, as Fulci is just beginning to master the themes he would use so well in the Beyond, a dream-like masterpiece. Another Gate opens, and strange occurances, culminating with a zombie invasion, centre around an old hotel which was the site of an execution of a warlock many years earlier. Fulci's last Date with the Dead in the series was House by the Cemetery.
The film starts off with a rousing opening sequence, preparing the viewer for an onslaught that never arrives until almost 85 minutes later. While most of the previous films mentioned have little narrative structure and make barely an ounce of sense, there is even less to be found here. Yet before, where Fulci made up for this with stylish set pieces and mayhem, outside of the opening and the finale, there is little to keep your attention. The plot is nonexistent, as are the characters, and many 'surreal' sequences are plain absurd. The entire middle of the movie is non-stop talking head, during which nothing gets explained anyway, with only a few moments of the good stuff.
The casual horror fan (ie, the one that thought House of 1000 Corpses was the be all end all) will be chased away by the atrocious dubbing, though common with our beloved Italian Flicks, seems particularly bad here, most likely due to the boy cast as Bob, who seems as out of place as the man-child in Burial Ground. He appears almost too foreign...I can't quite place it. Italian Splatter fans will find the redeeming values, and Fulci fans will enjoy it as the last film in a great run.
In short, first-time Fulci viewers are safer to start with Zombi 2 and then peek at the Beyond. This and City of the Living Dead are most likely for the veterans to appreciate.