Rain Man is a truly special film that involves two brothers of two totally different worlds,mentally 'n so forth.  However,Charlie has this thing where he's all about money even to the point that he tries to play his brother,Raymond,for "a sap."  In other words,Charlie is willing to do whatever it takes to get "the lion's share"
of inheritence...money and all!!  To me,I'd say that's a shame because it is so sad to have to take advantage of a family member as a pawn in the game...especially if that family member has a mentally or developmentally disorder.  I'd hate to think about what would happen if Charlie and Raymond were to never get along yet what Charlie would do to shake the cash out of Raymond's pockets,ya know?
  I'm pretty sure that Raymond got "picked on"...did Raymond ever get bullied,mocked,made fun of,etc.
or did he just get left alone with only the burden of his own semi-normal brother(Charlie)with money-hungry out for blood issues just to get some cash on the side?!!
I can only help but wonder on since he lived at Wallbrook
in which I take it,is an adult foster care home or more commonly referred to as an AFC Home but you could only picture the part of if Raymond was in Special Education at one time or another...I bet he was the smartest student if he were a Special Ed. student since it's hardly ever that one comes up to an Autistic individual with so many advanced talents and/or abilities beyond belief!!  I'm not disparging Autistic people as a catagory,mind you but I was amazed at Raymond's unique "powers" if you wish to call them "powers."  All I have to say in mental terms is: "What a weapon!!"  He's ahead of the ball game in his mental abilities on numbers(math),cards,knowledge on
baseball+"Who's On First?" let alone remembering phone numbers+names out of a phone book up to half-way through "G"?!!  That's unheard of,if you ask me!!!!  Dustin Hoffman has created an inspiration for me.
  WHY?  Because I have a rare Autistic Spectrum known
as "Asperger's Syndrome" and my abilities are similar to Raymond's in terms of math,games(Video Games+Yu-Gi-Oh!),
numbers(birthdays+phone numbers...not address', though.)
but Rain Man has helped me to somewhat understand Autism but I'm disappointed to know that I can't find any movies with somebody that has "Asperger's Syndrome."
I rented Rain Man a few years ago and my mother watched it with me to help me better understand Autism and the "powers" hidden within.  Therefore,being that I have such a rare Autistic Spectum...Rain Man has inspired me to find the "magic" within myself!!
God Bless Rain Man,You'll Always Inspire Autistic Truth!!

  *J. Allen*