This made-for-TV movie has been shown only once in the US in 1996.  Back then, I watched it in a hotel room while traveling and couldn't tape it.  Eventually I gave up hope that it would ever be released on DVD or VHS in the US and bought a PAL copy (from amazon.co.uk) to play on my "hacked" DVD player.  Murphy's Law being what it is, about a year later the US release finally came.  Accordingly, I haven't really gotten around to watching the US release until now.

As another reviewer pointed out, this is a NTSC-to-PAL-back-to-NTSC copy, so there is a bit of a speed-up that happens when NTSC is transferred to PAL.  You'll get used to that.  The US-release DVD has a lot of extras (more than a disc worth) that aren't on the UK-release DVD.  They're generally quite good.

I thought that Paul McGann was an excellent Doctor, even though he was stuck with a rather poor script.  The supporting cast is strong, especially Yee Jee Tso playing a young gangster who reforms when the Master turns out to be more evil than even a gangster can stand.  The production was classy for a TV movie of that era.

Then there's that script.  I quite agree that it was wrong to make the Doctor half human, and that there's too much time wasted on chases for an 85 minute film.  The opening voice-over tells us that the Daleks, having tried and executed the Master on Skaro, granted his last wish and gave his remains to the Doctor to be returned to Gallifrey.  Give me a break!!  Firstly, the Daleks don't bother with trials.  Secondly, they don't grant last wishes.  And thirdly, if the Doctor came within range of Daleks they would shout "EXTERMINATE!"  Furthermore, one would think that a movie about time would have gotten the date of the millennium straight.  (OK, I know half the world's population thinks it started on January 1, 2000, but it didn't really start till January 1, 2001.)  Watching the film again 14 years after its original airing, I thank all the powers of the universe that the BBC found Russell T. Davies.  He showed us what a good script should be.