This is a wonderful, realistic portrayal of one Aspie's world, and of what it MIGHT be like to have a relationship with one.  Hugh Dancy doesn't overdo the physical traits -- an unusual accomplishment.  And Rose Byrne is just delightful.

I'm giving the movie 4 stars because it is 95% excellent.

SPOILER ALERT

However.  Then comes that last 5%.  The ending is simply awful.  I don't mean it's not what the viewer is hoping for.  I mean it's badly written, in that it feels completely artificial and tacked on; it doesn't follow from what we've seen of the relationship up to that point, which is very real, genuine and mutual affection.  I also mean it does a terrible injustice to Aspies, who generally do NOT see their loved ones in such cold and utilitarian terms as those put into Adam's mouth by this script.  Rather, when they manage to make a connection with another human being in spite of the difficulties, they treasure that person.

I appreciate that the writers/producers/director were trying not to sugarcoat or over-sentimentalize (as American movies so typically do) the difficulties of the relationship.  They didn't want to make a romantic comedy with Asperger's standing in as the comedic hurdle the romance must overcome (as the viewer knows it will, per the formula).  Good thinking.  But I think they tragically overcompensated.  They spent the movie creating a very real and mutual affection between Adam and Beth, while also showing the difficulties of getting there.  Then they tacked on an artificial ending that dynamited all that work, and turned Adam into just another unfeeling, relationship-incapable guy who's interested only in what a woman can do for him, and Beth into just another girl who gives it her all and gets her heart broken: formulaic Hollywood gets its revenge.  The ending is just as cheap as the typical rom-com ending; just with the opposite valence.

The message of the movie ends up being: "Don't get involved with an Aspie.  No matter how hard you try, no matter how wonderful and understanding you are, no matter how well things seem to be going, you're screwed. They're incapable of love."  Aspies have enough problems creating relationships without that kind of press.