I lived in the Netherlands in 2003 when the Dutch TV network started airing the series.  I left the country to return to the U.S. just as season #3 finished airing there.  I was left with the cliffhanger episode of whether or not Colin survived the second surgery. After a decade of living in Europe and enjoying the small amount of commercials compared to the insanity of the U.S. TV networks, I decided not to have any TV upon my return -- my TV is only a monitor to play videos of my choosing.  One of my only regrets about this decision is that I have never been able to see Everwood again, one of the most memorable viewing experiences I had while I still watched any kind of network TV (albeit foreign network).  When I saw that Season I of Everwood was available, I snapped it up and had watched 3 episodes the first night, having to stop myself from watching more.  My boyfriend and I started watching episodes every night, revelling in not having to endure commercial breaks, and becoming immersed in the well-formed and well-acted characters and storylines.  Alas, we finished all the DVDs within a week!  You'll laugh, cry and be thoroughly entertained with the Everwood populace on this amazingly well-written and beautifully-produced series.  The DVD set has some wonderful extras as well.  I was only left wishing there had been more than 4 episodes with a commentary track.  The amazing irony about this gem of a TV series, as explained on one of the extra featurettes, is that it is deliberately a "small" series, which allows it to be as rich as it is in its storytelling.  If it were more popular, it would be forced to cater more to sponsors and network mandates, and thus lose its brilliance.  Says alot about mainstream American TV, doesn't it?

I am currently signed up to be notified as soon as Series 2 is available on DVD because I've been waiting a LONG time to see if Colin survived that second surgery :-)  And while I'm at it, how about gearing up to make Series 3 available as well!