Becket is one of those films that seems to have become lost or forgotten over the years. Which is a pity because, while it is certainly not a great film, it is a film with much to recommend it. Of course, strictly speaking, it is not much of a film at all in a pure cinematic sense - more of a filmed play. It retains its theatrical structure and even has the feel of a play. Most of the exteriors look more like elaborate stage sets (with badly directed extras) than film settings. And the disappointing musical score sounds more like the loud "we're changing the scenery" cues often found in theatrical productions. But all of this may have been intentional because the real focus of the film is on the two central characters.
The story of Henry II and Thomas Becket, good friends who became enemies after the former made the latter Archbishop of Canterbury, is a familiar one. Just to make matters more interesting, one is a conquering Norman while the other is a vanquished Saxon. Hollywood loves that Norman/Saxon dynamic (see Robin Hood). Although more recent historical evidence suggests that, in reality, Becket was a minor Norman nobleman himself. Anyway...French playwright Jean Anouilh gave the tale the fresh insight and slightly sardonic interpretation of an outsider. He viewed Becket as more pragmatic - even pedantic - than holy and hinted that the relationship between King and Archbishop-to-be was a tad more intimate than mere friendship. Inevitably, the screenplay plays down this spin on events but thankfully retains much of the dialogue that sparks and flashes between the protagonists.
The real attraction of the film are the two star performances. The flamboyant Peter O'Toole, fresh from his introspective Lawrence of Arabia, is a revelation and rightly dominates every scene he's in. The fact that he never won an Oscar remains a scandal. Richard Burton is less flashy but just as solid. And yet, as with nearly every Burton performance, there is a touch of artificiality that jars, particularly in the early, bawdy scenes. There is a definite chemistry between the two actors, who were good friends, but I sometimes wish that Becket had been played by someone like Alan Bates or Albert Finney who could have made the character more full-bodied and believable. As it is, I have always been bothered by Becket's seemingly overnight change of personality. In one scene, he's pleading with Henry not to make him Archbishop - in the next, he's suddenly a serious cleric giving away all his possessions. Surely there is a scene missing there. (If they wanted to keep the running time down, they could have easily dispensed with the overplayed and unnecessary interlude with the Pope.)
With two such towering performances, the supporting cast has little chance of being noticed. But John Gielgud enjoys himself immensely as the wily King of France. Sian Phillips (Mrs O'Toole at the time) is quietly effective as Becket's Welsh mistress. But hammy Donald Wolfit as the scheming Bishop of London looks too much like a constipated granny to be menacing and Martita Hunt and Pamela Brown as Henry's mother and wife seem merely bitchy. The four English barons who eventually murder Becket are played by solid British character actors - you will know their faces but probably not their names. And what about something called Veronique Vendell - looking every inch a sixties sex kitten from a totally different film - who makes a mercifully brief appearance as a French tart. 
The film has many wonderful moments, the best of which is Henry and Becket's final meeting - on horseback on a cold and windswept beach. The good parts of Becket are so good that you happily overlook and forgive the film's faults. If nothing else, it is worth seeing for the magnificent Peter O'Toole.