This is not normally my type of thing.  I don't watch a lot of musicals, I have never seen another Elvis film, and apparently, using this as a launchpad for watching all those other Elvis films would be a dangerous escapade; it seems that most of them are badly-done rubbish.

But this was a lot of fun.  Much as I enjoyed the music and dancing, and as appreciative as I was of Ann-Margaret's zing througout, I especially liked the humour that helps carry the film, even as the plot turns in merely a cameo role.  There are some great one-liners, and some funny extended shtick--like Elvis, as Lucky Jackson/would-be race-car driver, acting as annoying waiter at a romantic dinner that involves his would-be girl and his suave rival, played coolly by Cesare Danova.  The timing of the slapstick and the sharp dialogue is pretty clean at this disasterous dinner, rivaling the superb singing-and-strolling sequence earlier, as Ann-Margaret, aka Rusty Martin, leads a randy Lucky to the nearest pool where Lucky will lose all his Vegas winnings down a drain.  Overall, the scenes and the songs evoke a variety of moods while on a very tight clock.  But again the emphasis is on laughs; many of the songs have highly amusing lyrics, including Ann-Margaret singing in the kitchen while she seems to magically prepare about 5 days' worth of food for her father.

Further notes on the plot: well, it's there, working its way into the film in bite-sized chunks.  Elvis and rival scouring the hotspots of Vegas looking for one gal, guess-who, until they bump into what looks like most of Texas, rowdy and proud while partying in Sin City; Elvis finally racing (given the carefree nature of the plot, I wondered if there was even going to be a car race, or would we just have Elvis's car stalling for good, and Ann-Margaret popping out from under the hood with a wrench in one hand, engine parts in the other hand, and a sly grin on her face, while everyone laughed, started dancing, and the words THE END shimmered into view.  Don't worry, that doesn't happen).  In between the roaming beginning and the hastily-injected finale, we get a lot of muscial wooing, crazy waitering to pay off a bill (the money went down a drain, remember), shots of a sizzling 1964 Las Vegas (wish I coulda bin there), and some laughs.

I'm not about to start binging on musicals or Elvis flicks, but this was a happy change from over-complicated epics with too much sweat, blood, or tears.  A simple tale, not necessarily well told, but deliciously lost in the whimsical shuffle.