By reading some of the previous reviews, I get the feeling that some people may have been disappointed by the fact that the plot of the movie is somewhat simple. This is not an adventure movie; it is a character study, a journey into genius and madness, the complexity of family ties, and of relationships growing from intellectual and sentimental attraction. Some call it a thriller and I agree with that. It is a thriller to people who like sensible movies.

The performances of lead and supporting cast members are flawless, believable and touching. Gwyneth Paltrow delivers a performance that I find much more admirable and challenging than the one in "Shakespeare in Love", and if I had to choose, I'd give her the Oscar for this one which I found much more interesting by all means.

Jake Gyllenhaal makes an adorable Hal (even when you wonder about his motives); his confident performance rings absolutely true (he must be every geek's hero now!). Sir Hopkins is his own, usual perfect self.

Hope Davis' character is truly irritating, so I guess she does a great job.

Interestingly, "Proof" does not deliver one single breathtaking moment to replay over and over. It is not "memorable" that way. It is the mood of the whole movie that sticks with you. Dialogues can be quite funny at times (the "jojoba" lines are funny and the "dating the doctoral advisor's daughter", very sweet), and I actually found the "theatrical" sound of them pleasant and interesting.

The editing work is excellent; the flashbacks are carefully spread out through the movie to help build-up and understand the complexity of the "present". If anybody finds the succession of past and present scenes confusing, one must consider that maybe there is a relevance to that. The main character is confused and has lived in confusion for several years, to a point where she is afraid to be "like her father." And she is not thinking about his genius when she says that...

This movie is delicate and sensitive; it will still be as true and interesting as it is now in ten or fifteen years from now. It has timeless qualities.