I received my DVD from Amazon this morning and it has been playing all day. I have seen the PBS special before and this dvd has the addition of "To Believe" and "Mi Mancherai". Jackie will take you to the 18 century with her haunting version of "Dark Waltz" with only Mr Foster on the piano and Conrad on violin, which is only on this dvd. Bonus is the Jackie and David interview and slideshow of beautiful Jackie singing "Dream with Me". "Mi Mancherai" probably because first time I've seen this makes me wonder, has Jackie been in love before??.  It so emotional the way she sang this.."Imaginer" another beautiful and powerful song.. Before I get carried away about reviewing this DVD in which I am not good at, buy it and decide for youself...I am more than 100% sure you will love this...I still have to wait for the BluRay version. I want the best because Jackie is the best!!!!!!!
(09/23/2011)After watching this, I concluded this DVD was made for kids and the young at heart, who love the circus. There were NO tigers, lions, clowns nor flying trapezze.
Uncle David will give you a tour, Ringling Museum Of Arts, with Jackie. You will see the "Calliope" musical instrument, you will recognize it when you hear it, a big human canon, where a woman is used as the bullet, you'll be amazed the woman survives, a hall where great paintings by the great painter Reubens are displayed and you will wonder which one you like. A hall where great opera singers were invited to sing and you will see how Jackie looked like during the 18th century. In between tours, Jackie will entertain you with her beautiful voice. You will see Jackie with a chorus of children on the song "To Believe". Also you will see Jackie's friends and classmates watching the concert. And the fireworks at the end....Amazing....
10/12/2011  Received my Bluray yesterday...I am so impressed of the quality of the video and the sound..The closest thing of being there "live". I can see Jackie's beautiful big blue eyes on my HDTV and Mr Foster's wrinkled face...Now that holidays is coming, this will be the best gift you can give that will last for a long long time.....Happy Holidays!!!!!