Although I'm not a native of Gloucester, MA, I have lived in Gloucester for the past 5 years. I went to see this movie and found it to be everything I'd hoped it would be and then some!  Actually, I went to see it about every weekend this summer, and I kept going to see it at different theatres until they finally took it away. It's quite frankly one of the best movies I've ever seen in my life!
Actually, I bought a DVD player and a new and bigger TV, and was actually counting down the days until November 14. I had heard that the DVD version had so many special things, that I didn't want to miss out.  It includes a part on the making of the movie, narrated by Wolfgang Petersen and Gail Katz, and a separate narration by Sebastian Junger, the author of the book, as well as story boards, and a photo montage of "Yours Forever." And "Creating an Emotion" by James Horner.  When I got it home on November 14, I think I played it every night for a week.  Probably noone really understands just how much of an impact this movie has made on me.  I love sea stories, but something in this movie just went beyond everything I'd ever seen, and I continue to keep seeing it.
There have been mixed reviews of this movie--some people loved it, and many others criticized it for even being made.  The costumes of the fishermen were so realistic, and it looked as if Clooney and the others had actually been there.  Also, the special effects were truly amazing.  I also read the book before going to see the movie, so I knew how it was going to end.  Then I read the book again, and it made the tale of these 6 fishermen even clearer and more awesome. 
It makes me think that those who really didn't care for the movie might have been overcome by just how realistic and gripping special effects are--perhaps they got seasick or just remembered a time in their own experience that they wanted to forget.  And those who loved the movie were overcome by such a gripping sea story with awesome special effects that you felt you were right there on the boat and knew the people.  One comment I have for the critics, is just HOW much acting can a crew of sword fisherman do when they're scared and just want to get home? You don't really expect them to start singing "Show me the way to go home?" in the middle of a big storm like they did in Jaws with the shark out there! And who said that said cliches are bad anyway if they add to the storyline? This is a movie I won't soon forget.  I bought the DVD edition and found SO many extras that I enjoyed it thoroughly, although the VHS version seems to be muted and in shades of gray.  I actually watched the DVD version every night for a week once I got it home!  
The music score by James Horner was wonderful.  I could listen to it and almost see the whole movie by closing my eyes and thinking about it.  All in all, I think Wolfgang Petersen did a great job, and although this movie probably won't win Best Picture, or any other awards, it was definitely one worth watching and I highly recommend the DVD version.  The DVD has great full color and sound, and the special features are wonderful, making this a film that at least I won't soon forget. The VHS version seems to be grayed down, so please to adjust your TV set to get the best viewing.  The cloudy gray VHS version, however, doesn't take away from the awesome effects that make the movie what it is;unquestionably the best movie I've seen this year. 
Just wanted to add that I bought 5 copies of the movie for Christmas presents this year, and almost everyone said how much they've really enjoyed the movie. Also, I've become a fan of George Clooney--he looks like he's been there, and he's MY HERO!