This is a collection of many of NASA mission documentation, such as photos and films, with the verbal comments of the astronauts that flew them. It covers all the major space flights, starting with the X-15 and Mercury, and ends with the latest Shuttle mission to the International Space Station. It also includes very rare interviews with astronauts that are not seen publicly but were part of NASA's history. My favorites were Neil Armstrong on the X-15 and John Young on the Columbia Space Shuttle.

As with most NASA documentaries, there are some misplaced films placed during certain events. The most famous of these were the Saturn V stagings scenes, where the second stage separation was actually part of Apollo 4 (the first Saturn V launch in November 1967), and the third stage separation which is really the Saturn 1B staging. Only real space nuts, like me, would recognize them.

Not considering these and other technical details, which added plenty to the action scenes, the story in each chapter is easy to follow from the beginning to the end. I saw these chapters first on the Discovery/Science Channel, and I like the DVD version, too, which naturally has no commercial intermissions. For those who only saw the broadcast version of the space missions, this will actually be more entertaining and satisfying to watch. And for those history buffs like me, who collect as much as possible before the NASA films degrade, this is a complete and quite accurate effort from the Discovery Channel, and probably the only place where you can listen to most of the original astronauts who flew these missions and who are still with us on Earth.

As for me, I wish that The Discovery Channel would also release the six "Moon Machines" chapters which covers the Apollo missions in much more detail, but with interviews and comments from the engineers and scientists who developed the spacecraft, navigation, and space suits that got us to the Moon. This would be a very satisfying addition to my collection and a recommendation to sell together with the other NASA videos here at Amazon.