...of one of the best sci-fi shows of all time. I won't say "end," but if that's how posterity remembers PK Wars, it could have done much, much worse.

Peacekeeper Wars, in short, does a superb job both tying up all dangling plot threads from the Farscape series and leaving openings for wherever the franchise goes next. The special effects, considering that it's a miniseries, are spectacular. The writing is even better--PK Wars loses nothing in the transition from show to miniseries. The characters are their same, bizzarre selves, except on a bit larger scale. The caliber of performance, from everyone involved, is excellent--but that was only to be expected.

That said, PK Wars is NOT a good selection if you're looking to discover Farscape. You will likely leave your experience extremely confused, irritated, and perhaps a bit ill from the overall weirdness of it all. Farscape, unlike Star Trek or many other shows, cannot be picked up at any time--it is very much an arc show, and each episode, although not necessarily a "sequel" to the one before it, very much builds on the character relationships developed previously. The dynamic between all of the members of the spectacular Farscape cast cannot be immediately understood; it's usually too complex and bizzarre for that. PK Wars is very much the conclusion to one ongoing story, (that is, the arc of the original Farscape series) and can no more be watched first than "Return of the King" can be read before the other Lord of the Rings books. That's just...ooh, a terrible thought.

So, the best possible soltion: Watch the rest of the series first! (This is assuming the reader is new to the show. If you are already a Farscape fan: trust me, PK Wars is completely worth it. Every bit as witty and fast as the best parts of the show, and extremely poingnant. Absolutely well done!) Farscape is primarily a show based on relationships and interactions; the plots are fantastic and gripping, but would mean very little without the chemisty and/or tension between the characters. Given the proper time and order to develop, these dynamics will reward the watcher with one of the most complex and thoroughly enjoyable emotional tangles ever to grace your television. (or laptop, or iPod, these days...) But ONLY then. Give the book a chance before you read the epilogue; the ending is only as good as the middle makes it.

And this particular middle makes for one of the best--and most fun!--sci-fi chapters ever written, acted, or viewed. You won't regret your patience.