As a dedicated fan of the original movie I couldn't wait to get this new extended edition. I have never been quite as disappointed by a DVD release. Perhaps I was expecting way too much, but who can blame me, in this day and age of digital re-mastering and re-working. Look at what ILM did to restore the original Star Wars trilogy. The theatrical release of Dune may have its foibles and faults, but I believe many would agree with me that it is a brilliant Sci-Fi classic, and deserved the same kind of loving restoration as Star Wars. Was there just not enough money or support out there for Dune to do it justice?

I gather that the Sci-Fi channel has been airing this same extended version of Dune - I suppose if I'd seen that I would have been better prepared for what comes on the DVD. Alas I will never support the Sci-Fi channel again after how they mishandled Farscape.

I realize this is just one fan's opinion, but I can't justify more than two stars for the extended version of the movie (the theatrical release remains one of my favorite films of all time). I find it impossible to believe that they didn't go in to the restored scenes and add the blue-on-blue effect for the eyes of the Fremen. The character's faces are so critically important to every scene that this omission is instantly noticeable, even in long distance shots.

Another major disappointment is the new narrator. Unlike the original hauntingly beautiful narration by Princess Irulan, this narrator's gravely voice is jarring and does not fit with the tone or mood of the film at all. Nor does he pronounce many key terms in the same way as the characters in the movie (e.g., Sardukar), which is sloppy and takes away from the richness of the fantasy universe. Even if someone told me the narrator was Frank Herbert's son or David Lynch, I still think this style of narration was a poor choice that detracts from the film a lot. My wife and I found ourselves dreading the next time there would be narration in a scene - which happened far too often, and often in seemingly random places. It's not that I'm against narration - I'm a huge fan of the original Blade Runner; I loved the narration by Harrison Ford, it fit the mood of the film perfectly and drew my imagination deeper into the Blade Runner world.

The extended version of Dune also makes extensive use of new artwork in conjunction with the new narrator, first to create a lengthy prologue, and then scattered throughout the film to remind us what planet we are on. I can't say it's terrible artwork, it has the look of quickly painted concept art.  But again, it just does not fit in with the look of the film. The paintings of the planets have such a rough, sketchy look that when they pop up you are jarred back out of the story and reminded that you are just watching a movie. It creates the feeling you are seeing an unfinished preliminary cut of the film, where storyboards are inserted to mark where special effects will be added later.

Hard core Dune fans will already own their copy of this release, and like me, be pretty glad they do. But I bet I speak for many when I say we are still waiting for that "ultimate director's edition." Come on David Lynch, wherever you are, we know you did the best you could, and we love what you did. Now give us an extended version that we fans can watch again and again, instead of just once out of curiosity.