If you were turned off by Step Up, forget about it, the sequels are infinitely better. This movie is so good! One of the things that I love about it is that the dancers may be quirky or awkward in plot scenes, but when they'e dancing they are so powerful and confident, it's like they become superheroes (moose in particular).
Step up 3 makes the right decision to cut down on plot and drama and let the dancing take the spotlight. Yes there is a story, but it's not bogged down by disapproving parents or stodgy ballet instructors. Everyone starts out as good dancers so there aren't any unnecessary montages of bad dancers fumbling around (though there are some great training sequences of everyone showing off). The conflicts are sometimes so ludicrous it's hilarious. The acting is fine, these are fantasy people who live in beautiful colorful world where conflicts are settled with dance battles in the bathroom, they're charming and happy go lucky and I wouldn't want it any other way.
The dancing is amazing! There are so many styles and every dancer injects their own personality into it. The interactions between crews during battles were really interesting. They'll trade blows and react to each others moves and sometimes mock the other crews style. They really made an effort to resolve plot in the dancing instead of having plot and dancing separate. The choreography is stellar and the cinematography is significantly improved since Step Up 2. It's really bright and colorful and the contrast and framing allows for you to see all the intricacies of the choreography.  I particularly appreciated that the dancing can be flirty without being sexual or vulgar.

I just go through this movie with a huge grin on my face and the battles are great to watch over and over. I just can't get enough of this movie.

The only complaint I have is that I would like to have a commentary or more special features with the director talking about his process. He obviously loves and knows dance, and he is pretty vocal on the internet so I was surprised that he didn't talk more on the features.