I liked the main character, Andie (Molly Ringwald) a lot & I was rooting for her throughout the entire film . Maybe it's because she reminded me a lot of myself when I was in high school. She has her own unique style, which she gets flack for by the popular girls. "Where'd you get that - the 5 & dime store?" the snooty Benny asks her. And that hellish scene in gym class made my stomach churn as I recalled my own teen angst ridden days in gym class. One of Andie's best friends, Jenna (Alexa Kenin, who, sadly, died shortly after the film was released) brings humor to the awful situation by flicking Benny off & saying she hopes her breasts shrivel up and fall off. It's one of the many hilarious & memorable scenes of the film.
Ringwald is backed up by a strong supporting cast, including Jon Cryer, who plays her best guy friend, Duckie, who is just side-splittingly funny. In one of the funniest scenes of the film, he gets thrown in the girls bathroom by a group of nauseatingly preppy guys for trying to defend himself. "Wait a minute. We don't got none of this stuff in the boys room. You got doors on the stalls & a candy machine (He points to the tampon dispenser).
Harry Dean Stanton has never been more adorable & endearing as Andie's father. Annie Potts is wonderful as Andie's eccentric mother figure & co-worker. James Spader is Steff, the totally creepy slimeball & best friend of Blaine (Andrew McCarthy). I dismiss the fact that he looked way too old to be in high school because he just plays the part so damn well. He hates Andie & makes fun of her in front of his crowd. Secretly though, he has had a crush on her for years & it kills him that she won't give him the time of day. Ugh, I remember creeps like that in high school. 
What I like is that all of the characters we're cheering for change for the better. Iona stops dating losers & gets herself a classy new image. Andie's father starts to get out of his rut that he's been in since Andie's mother left them years before & looks for a job for real this time. Duckie learns to stop making unfair generalizations about the popular people once he finds out Blaine is actually a very nice guy. Blaine learns to do what he wants to do & tells Steff off & makes things right with Andie. Andie refuses to let the popular kids break her. The only thing I didn't like was the unresolved ending that doesn't really leave things on a completely positive, realistic note. Andie & Blaine still have his parents to deal with & if they're as awful as Steff desribed, Blaine just might encounter the two unpleasant words that can pop up in difficult families: disown & estrangement.
Wish the DVD had some special features, but the soundtrack is great & essential to building the perfect CD collection.