Questions that the creators of this movie just jumped around.

Remember the 1st gen 80's cartoons. Thanks for ruining that memory. Even my 9 year old likes them better than these 2 illogical movies.

If the cube slice can re-animate megatron in the ocean, why not optimus? Why go find some long hidden 'bot' at the smithsonian? And why would he be there. What did he do for the many thousand years of human history. Look like a big bird?

The "Fallen?" Where was he in the first flick when Megatron was frozen for thousands of years.

Why didn't Optimus know about him. he was a "Descendant' of the 'primes'?

Why would the other Primes kill themselves to keep one prime from turning evil leaving no chance to defend the universe from 1. You mean 6 against 1 is no match? But their less powerful descendant Optimus is more than a match and defeats him in a matter of less than a minute in movie time? Yet, Megatron escapes again?

Why does prime discard his new found powers at the end of the show. Anyone in the position to serve and protect is going to keep this power in order to be optimally primed for megatron's next assault. But not our hero! Really?

Why only one 'bot' that can transform into a human? Surely, they all could turn into human form since they are the most advanced robots in the universe?

Why did they make the Decepticon's so hard to see any differences. Very annoying. In the cartoon...each robot was very easy to tell apart from another.

Slow the *beep* down. Jeez Mike, get on some medication dude. Even our nation of hyperactive drug induced kids can't handle this crap. Let us see the transforming robots, let us see something other than blurring, who is holding the camera? hard to see CGI sequences. While this one is better for the camera sequences than the 1st, it still got very aggravating. After watching something like District 9 with it's incredible CG, I have to say this movie failed. It was just not even close to as realistic looking and at least District 9 left you feeling like you actually interacted with the characters. Even the CG ones.

After all this I still found some way to sit through this movie and if you can overlook all these glaring flaws, it was fun. But not worthy of great. Michael Bay just doesn't make movie that are going to last more than a pop fad----which stinks because Transformer's was a great franchise until they allowed him to trash it. After this movie I felt somewhat the same when I went to see the original cartoon movie and Optimus Prime was killed off and Rodimus Prime took over the autobots. "It must be a mistake" "maybe the next movie the bring him back." It was funny because alot of us fans of the cartoon completely lost interest after that and they finally did bring him back....but it was too late by then. Same thing here.