This excellent documentary illustrates what is missing from contemporary American schools.  Viewers observe a school small enough that the teacher truly knows each of his students, and he knows their parents as well.  Exhibiting respect for the dignity and intelligence of each student, he commands respect in a natural way that allows for instructing his students not only in academics, but also in social rules and relationships.  In such a small school, the teacher is able to do for his students what adults are Supposed to do for children and youth, and that is to mentor them.

In addition, viewers observe students fighting while also supporting and forgiving each other.  One example is that of an older student who accepts the blame for pushing a younger student even though the younger student actually was the one to initiate the physical altercation.  After finding himself on the ground, the younger student is in tears because due to his fighting, he has unnecessarily fallen into the mud again after his teacher spent a good deal of time cleaning him up from the last time outside.  The little guy is distraught because he knows it will mean he will lose the privilege of an anticipated school outing.  Although this younger student was the instigator, rather than tell the teacher why he shoved the younger child, the older student allows the teacher to believe he was the one at fault.  In order to protect the younger student, not only did the older student allow the teacher to reprimand him, but also all of the students who witnessed the altercation protect the younger child by not volunteering to set the record straight.  Anyone who has spent much time on American playgrounds knows that is not the norm here.  However, in a school like the one in this documentary, such behavior among children is common because in small, more intimate environments students are able to bond with each other as a true community. No one can be an outsider because the community is just too small for anyone to be invisible or persecuted.  Instead, despite inevitable personality conflicts, in small schools with their accompanying close teacher-student relationships and guidance, students learn to accept each other and help each other

While considering what our own schools used to be like, before schools with 600-plus students at the elementary level and 1500-2500 students in middle and high schools, compare the actual relationship this teacher has with his students to the lack of personal relationships our students (especially after fifth grade) have with their teachers.  It is such relationships with adult mentors personally invested in them that motivate children of All ages.  Remember, too, that our own schools (small, without modern technology, and before the "school reforms" of the last 35 years) once turned out the world's leading creative thinkers, scientists, and inventors,.  This documentary illustrates why it is that until Americans go back to providing learning environments like the one in this film, all of our efforts to improve "outcomes" for the millions of disengaged students will only end up failing large numbers of them, just as they do now.