Without considering this was the sequel to Silence Of The Lambs, this move was worth the price of admission.  Sadly however the characters around Hannibal Lecter act like predictible sheep and act far less intelligent to the point of turning the movie into more of a slasher movie instead of a suspense thriller...
Ok, the good points fall largely on Anthony Hopkins returning as Hannibal Lecter.  While the material he had to work with wasn't as good, he puts together an excelent performance we have come to expect from Hopkins in this role.  His role alone is worth the price of admission.
A big thumbs down for Ray Liotta character in this picture.  Actually I am more disappointed with how the FBI and other law enforcement agency operatives (Pazzi, Krendler, and Starling) are played like they are bumbling idiots on a Keystone Cops set or sex starved power/money hungry morons who would sell their souls for their own personal gain.  The interaction between Liotta's character and Agent Starling is ridiculous and detracts from the plot. I think if the relationship between these characters was more professional it would have lent even more mystique to Lecter as a diabolical psychopath.  Instead we seem to see Lecter "escape" only because law enforcement are a bunch of moron's bent on self promotion and greed.
A thumb sideways for Julianne Moore as Agent Clarice Starling.  Again, her character is inconsistent drifting from a highly intellgent FBI agent to helpless damsel in distress.  This probably isn't Moore's fault but I would have preferred to see the more cerebral Jodie Foster who seems to fit this role better and absolutely nailed her performance in SOTL.
In the bizarre catagory would have to be the unique methods Lecter disposes of those pursuing him.  If you are at all squemish you may want to leave for the last 15 minutes of the movie.  Also, Gary Oldman plays the sole survivor of a full on Lecter attack (or in this case suggestion) as Mason Verger.  This character is very interesting but too diabolical.  Toward the middle of the movie I was trying to figure out who Starling was trying to capture Verger or Lecter.  Oldman does a great job but I wish the character was a bit less hell-bent on revenge and more cerebral (see John Hurt's role as S.R. Hadden in Contact).  The plot would have been more suspenseful if Verger's intentions were more hidden and underhanded than they appear in the movie.  Indeed Verger would have then appeared more as an ally to the FBI instead of a mentally ill disfigured psychopath who is far less intellegent than Lecter himself.
So overall "Hannibal" is a decent movie for some Friday night entertainment but if you are expecting the same kind of suspense and intellegent character interaction you enjoyed in Silence Of The Lambs" or "Seven" you will be disapointed.