IF YOU'VE NEVER READ GAME OF THRONES.....Should you watch the show or read the book first? (no real spoilers)

First - just to note (in case you didn't know), Game of Thrones is based on a book series called "A Song of Ice and Fire" by George R.R. Martin.  There are five so far (the first written in 1996, the most recent written in 2011), and he's planning to write at least two more (at the time of this review - 1/4/12).  "A Game of Thrones" is the first installment of the series.  HBO decided they liked the name "Game of Thrones" rather than "A Song of Ice and Fire" (I can see why - sounds less fantasy and more mainstream) and so that's the name of the whole series.  Each season is based on one novel.  So the first season was based on "A Game of Thrones" and the second season will be based on the second book, "A Clash of Kings," and so on.  Well, it may not be in exact perfect book order, and it will be interesting to see what they do in books 4 and 5, which have overlapping storylines.  Plus, aCoK is really too long to have in one season...the second season will air in April, 2012.

Anyway, back to the original question.  Show or book first?

This is a really difficult question.  For most books turned into show/movie, you'll want to read the book first, because it is usually superior to the adaptation.  However, we are talking about HBO here, so be prepared for a VERY good show.  Are there differences from the book?  Yes, but in general it stays true to the storyline and all differences are done artistically and were approved by the author, George R.R. Martin.

NUMBER OF CHARACTERS - There are a LOT of characters in this story.  Because the show has to be condensed somewhat from a 800 page novel to 10 hours of airtime, it can get really confusing to know who is who while watching the show.  It can get confusing in the book as well, but things are usually more detailed for you in the book so it is easier to reference.  However, it always help to put a face to a name, so that's a plus for the show.  But once again, sometimes there will be a really long part in the book that will be eliminated entirely from the show, and the absence can throw you off a little.  The book definitely has more backstory, and you'll probably be able to more accurately identify characters when watching the show after.

NEW SCENES FOR THE SHOW - Since we can't just look into the minds of the characters as in the book, there are a lot of invented scenes between characters in the show.  This isn't a bad thing, but it's just to give you more of an idea of who these people are and what is going on in their minds.  There is also a (sort-of) made-up character for the show, the prostitute Ros.  At first I thought she was added in there for just eye candy or something and found that sort of annoying, but ultimately I think she is just an outlet for us to get into the minds of characters since it's a show and not a book.  Also, her interactions with Greyjoy display (in my opinion) his disgusting personality, and since he's a much more important character in book 2 than 1 (his personality and backstory are almost non-existent in Book 1, they just hint at it), Ros was a way to kind of ease his character into the second season.

DIFFERENCES - Like I said, the show is generally true to the book.  However, if you read the book first, you may get super annoyed with some of the differences when watching the show.  One of the major differences is ages.  Everyone is a lot older in the show (the children, especially), and people are generally a lot different and better looking.  That's not really an issue though, or else the show would seem odd and creepy.  An example is Dany, a 13 year old in the book, is in frequent nude and sex scenes.  In the show, I think they say she is 17 (but the actress is actually 24).  It would also seem silly if Robb (14ish in the book) was actually 14 in the show, with him playing the type of role he has.  My major gripe was a few storyline differences that I didn't think were necessary at all for the show, but I'm a nitpicker.  An example is the major absence of direwolves in the show.  They're there, but are much more prevalent in the book!  I love the direwolves and think they are very symbolic, and wish HBO did more with them.  Maybe next season.

DO YOU LIKE TO READ? - That's probably the best way to decide.  The book is BIG.  Around 800 pages.  It's similar in size to a Harry Potter book, and in my opinion, even more captivating.  But it's a LOT of material, and you have to really pay attention due to the number of characters and intertwining story lines.  If reading isn't your strong suit, the show may be better at breaking it down for you.  If you are interested in reading all of the books, that's about 5,000 pages to trek through.  For comparison - if you read the Harry Potter books, all 7 books in the series are roughly the same number of pages as the first FOUR books of A Song of Ice and Fire.

YOU CAN'T GO WRONG

If you are an HBO fan, you know that HBO doesn't produce garbage.  This show is a masterpiece - one of my favorite shows in a long, long time.  It reminds me of a mix of Lord of the Rings and the Sopranos, with it's edgy, unforgiving attitude and a splash, but not too much, of fantasy.  People aren't casting spells with wands like Harry Potter or anything.  The fantasy aspect is very, very subtle.  Actually, way more subtle than I expected.  It's very reminiscent of medieval times.  The acting is superb and like most HBO shows, there aren't a lot of big names.  Sean Bean and Peter Dinklage are probably the most well-known.  The scenery and the show itself is drop dead gorgeous, however, maybe due to budget constraints, the show feels quite a bit "smaller" than the book.  Feasts, castles, celebrations, cities....all seem smaller in the show.

I think all changes in the show were done very well and nothing butchered the book.  Although nothing can compare to the books for me, I think aids it in really bringing it to life.  Plus, Martin was along for the ride of the writing and making of the show, so you know he'll try not to let writers deviate too much from the heart of the story.

My two major recommendations are:

#1 - watch show, read book, re-watch show: this is better if it's hard for you to get into books or just really want to see it first.  Then you can read the book, and think, "Hmm...I never remember seeing this person," and low and behold, when you watch it the second time around, that character IS there.  It really puts the pieces together.  However, prepare to be confused.  This is normal. The show has many, many major characters, and it can be really difficult to keep track.  I know several people who only watched the show and didn't read the book who can't point out Varys.  If you read the book, you damn well know who that is!  The show and the book alike both start out a little bit slow....but trust me, they both quickly turn into something quite thrilling and action-packed.  Just wait until Season 2.

#2 - read the book, then watch the show: the only downside to this is that you may sometimes be disappointed if things don't live up to your idea of the books standards.  You might find yourself saying things like, "WHAT!  That's not how they consummated!" and nitpick.  However, you'll understand MUCH more of of what is happening in the show with your book knowledge.

Also, this book was right up HBO's lane.  HBO likes to make gritty, real, intense and often unforgivingly brutal shows.  There aren't any good or bad guys, and when you think you found one....well, take a closer look.  Sick of fantasy books where things are too black and white (too good vs. evilish) or where the big characters are never killed off no matter how many deadly situations they are in?  Sick of books just not being REAL?  Well, Game of Thrones, the book and the movie, are a fantasy lover's dream.  Whether or book or show first, watch and read them both to really appreciate the art of Game of Thrones and the Song of Ice and Fire and series.