I am reviewing this DVD on the week that "This Is It" coming out to the theaters. I am so excited about that so I went through my MJ stuff this past weekend. When I got this DVD, I bought it mostly based on great reviews of the people who purchased this at the time (July/August 2009) on amazon.com. I have never played it until this last weekend. I see now that reviews are not as good. People have different views on what's good or not. But for $7.99 - you can't lose with this DVD.

This is recording of Michael Jackson concert in Japan during his Bad Tour (September 1987). It looks like recording from TV broadcast of the concert. It was shot with professional, multiple cameras and multiple angles. It's all there. All shots and close-ups of the stage, of the band, of Michael are there and good. Most importantly the sound is clear and great. The concert is there in its entirety.

I am not sure what the definition of bootleg is but I wouldn't call this a bootleg. There are multiple angles to this recording and over-all quality picture quality is good. It definitely does NOT have DVD HD picture quality, nor 5.1 DTS surround sound feature. The footage might be raw and un-edited too much. The production is very low. It looks like VHS recording that was put on DVD with the minimal efforts. But, to me that gave it the raw feel of the time when it was recorded and none of the technical non-perfections did not bother me.

Michael Jackson's performance on this recording is unbelievable. I think during this time he earned the title of THE KING. I also see how people in the audience would get unconscious and pass out. Michael's singing was flawless. He was performing at the giant stadium to the audience of thousands of people and his voice was just beautiful. He didn't skip a single note. His dance moves here are stunning. We all saw his moves in his videos. But dancing during the live concert wher4e anything can go wrong is another thing. He really was amazing and breathtaking. I was surprised that on this performance/tour Michael Jackson was more R'n'B than pop. Every single music note was played (by musicians obviously). There was no sampling of his recording anywhere and even if there was, it was very rough and for seconds. There definitely was NO lip-syncing what nowadays we see all the time on any performances.

I'd recommend this DVD to everyone who's interested to see what Michael live performance was like ...