The Trial is Orson Welles' adaptation of the Franz Kafka novel of the same name.  It follows the story of Josef K., a man who finds himself in a nightmarish version of reality he neither understands, nor can escape from.  It begins with Josef K. (played by Anthony Perkins) being awakened by police officers, who refuse to tell him the crime he's accused of.  He's placed under arrest, but not taken into custody - they allow him to continue his "normal" life.  Instead, he is taken away at bizarre moments to appear in court, which is a distorted mockery of the concept of justice.  There is no judge, no jury, no stated charges, no burden of proof, no lawyers, and no one that assumes impartiality or responsibility.  When Josef K. asks for a lawyer, he's told it's not necessary, since it's an "informal" questioning.  After the "court" appearance, Josef K. goes to enlist "the Advocate" to defend him.  The Advocate (played by Orson Welles) is portrayed as a demi-god of legal access and information not available to the common man - to be worshiped and feared at all costs, since without him, they are nothing.  However, in the end, Josef K. is sentenced and eventually executed for these elusive crimes.
The Trial is a merging of the existential philosophies of Kafka with the cinematic genius of Welles.  Josef K. is not a particularly empathetic character - he's weak, morally flexible, and passively pushed along this nightmare. In either ending, (the book or the film), Josef K. doesn't fight against his fate, or meekly accepts it. It embodies the existentialist view that Josef K.'s nightmare prison is one of his own making, and therefore only he is responsible for its injustices.  Welles adds his own perspective in the sense that it reflected the subversive tactics of those in power around the judicial system during that time - a very Marxist perspective in the face of the McCarthy era, where the HUAC had frightening similarities to the nightmare court.
Overall, it's a film with many possible interpretations and meanings - that are neither right nor wrong, but dependent on the audience's own observations.  Like most of Welles' and Kafka's work - you can either take it at face value, or as an intellectual piece - either way, it's a well done cinematic accomplishment.