When I first heard friend and the UK press banging on about this movie back in 1994, I thought it was worth a look.

Upon first viewing I did feel slightly confused as it didn't seem to be the whole story as described.  As it turned out the Anime and Manga are totally different animals.

The manga actually does feature Akira in a key role, whereas the film (planned while the manga series was still running in Japan) removes any real direct involvement he has in the story.

Opting instead for the story of Tetsuo Shima.  Telling the tale of his rather awkward angst-ridden teenage rebellion against powers and situations beyond his control.

Chances are, Americans will love the last action-packed 30 minutes with its' guns, mutation, death and mass destruction.

But in my humble opinion the manga presents us with a fully developed world and each of our lead character's individual story arcs are given satisfying conclusions - and so is vastly superior to this over-rated, much hyped piece of Japanese Popular Culture and Animated Action Cinema.  There simply isn't enough time to give Otomo's post-apocalyptic world the time and attention needed to grab an increasingly restless, impatient modern audience.

I was 14 when I first saw the Streamline Pictures dub (still included on the most recent Region 2 UK and Region 4 Australian releases) and it took me several viewings to truly understand all aspects of Otomo's multi-layered film version of Akira.  Over the years my appreciation for this smaller scaled story has increased steadily.  As I matured, so did my tastes in movies.

The Geneon/Pioneer 2001 dub is truer to the original script but totally unnecessary.  Akira is best enjoyed in Japanese with the new Subs.

I actually have three slightly different subbed versions: The Manga/Island World Communications UK VHS, The BBC broadcast version (not too different from the video) and the Pioneer Literal Translation Script of the Japanese (used for the Region 1, 2 & 4 DVD releases).

You really are best revisiting the movie once you have read the Manga.  I guarantee you will come back to the anime version with a deeper understanding of the intricate plot.

To all those who want a throw-away movie experience - go watch a Poke'mon movie instead.

If you can you should Import the Region 2 UK version (available from amazon.co.uk) with the old dub on a second disc with the 4:3 video transfer plus Dolby digital 2.0 Dual Mono (Front Left Channel & Right Channels - no surround sound) or the Madman Entertainment single disc Region 4 version with all 3 audio tracks on the same disc with the 2001 Pioneer Widescreen Re-mastered Version.

The 2 disc American releases have more extras (on the restoration and re-dubbing, plus capsule option - translation of Japanese signs and graffiti) if you like that kind of thing.

Happy viewing!!