THIS MOVIE IS UNDER-RATED AND I TELL YOU WHY. I read many other reviews most of them basically saying how this movie is horrible compared to the 1st movie. Yes this movie is not as good as the 1st movie but it is good in its own right even though this movie had high expectations on top of it.

Ok 1st thing...this movie is just as the title says..ANNIHILATION. NIGHTWOLF in the movie put the entire movie in perspective with one line..."The tournament had rules, this time anything goes." This is why there so many random fight scenes in the movie and my reasoning for characters like Sub Zero and Scorpion and Nightwolf making cameos and not being main characters. The Animality fight was a nice touch to the movie as well. MY OPINION...Johnny Cage dying in the very beginning of the movie was funny considering how many black people die in the beginning of most horror movies lol. Remember,when the 1st movie was made they took thing from the 1st and 2nd MK games to make it work, when they made this movie they took things from the 2nd and 3rd MK games to make it work.

The bad part of the movie was the they tried to fit so many characters into a 1hr 45min movie so there wasnt enough time to go into any one character's background or anything. Also somewhere in the middle of the production of the movie SOMEONE got lazy and used some repeted frames in the movie thinking no one would notice. If I(or anyone else)pointed out every single glitch or wrong thing in this movie, it would like a cheap japanese movie gone bad. Perfect example:if anyone knows it or not..RAIN falls into the fire twice in the movie. One last aggrivating thing about this movis is Liu Kang doesnt do any special moves like he did in the 1st movie. Even Johnny Cage managed to get one off before he died and Liu Kang could pull one off besides the Animality? Gimme a break lol

So despite the many setbacks to the movie I still think its good to watch.I am a true MK fan and I take it for what it is and what was done with it. So if you watch this movie after watching the 1st movie then expect to be disappointed. But if you keep in mind the fact that it was all about ANNIHILATION then you will somewhat enjoy it