There are several negative aspects of this movie that need to be fully aired.

 Firstly, there's the heavy reliance on CGI for nearly thirty minutes during the end of the movie. And the CGI is badly done. Gollum, in the Lord of the Rings, was obviously CGI - but the interaction with actors was flawless, and the scenery/setting was real (Andy Serkis doesn't get half the credit he deserves - the man is unbelievable!). The Hulk's CGI debut, however, throws the viewer completely out of the flow of the movie, leaving one to wonder uneasily if they paid to watch a video game being played onscreen, and weren't told. It is, quite literally, that fake-looking and awful. And just when you think it can't get worse, it does - by going on, and on, and on . . . While I've never been to the American southwest, I don't believe that there's quite so much of it that the Hulk can leap three miles in a bound, for THIRTY minutes, and not run into some ocean, SOMEWHERE. Or even the boundary to Mexico.

 In addition, I was incredibly disappointed with Eric Bana's work in this film. Now, it may be my unfamiliarity with the comic series showing itself, but I was given the impression that Bruce Banner was on heavy-duty depressants - the kind you need a prescription and proof of identification to buy. Either that, or he just never left the 60's . . . and either prospect is equally disturbing.

 The villian was a bit predictable and so overdone in the CGI climax that I was left wondering just how the Hulk defeated him - it seemed entirely improbable. As for the girlfriend - the actress did a good job of conveying the fact that the character clearly has issues.

  The only part of the movie I found to make any contextual sense was the built-in background for Bruce, and the issue of his past. Even that, however, was decidedly overdramatic.

  Despite these minor flaws, the biggest complaint I can voice is the simple lack of quality to this film. There is such extreme reliance on poor CGI work, that it's really not worth buying. You might just be better off playing the video game.