Ok, is Juliette Lewis the most underated actress in Hollywood or what?  I can't believe this woman gets overlooked as much as she does!  The movies that she has starred in are mostly movies that not every Hollywood actress would do.  That is what makes her so good.  Strange Days, Kalifornia, Cape Fear, and her Micheal Angello, Natural Born Killers, to name a few.  These are films that a lot of stuck up actresses would not get involved in, and thank god for that.  In my opionin, Juliette Lewis is as good an actress as Julia Roberts, Helen Hunt, Jody Foster, Meg Ryan, etc., and it shows once again in Kalifornia.  Although Pitt is awesome in this film(as in most of his films), I think Lewis's performance as his low IQ girlfriend Adel, stands out.  I do like Pitt's films and think he is a great actor.  Fight Club, Sleepers, True Romance(in a small role), Snatch, etc., are all great films.  But I think this was his best and most convincing role.  Pitt plays Early Grace, a serial killer that, along with his girlfriend Adel, hitches a ride to California with Brian(David Duchovny) and Carrie(Michelle Forbes).  Carrie is a photographer and Brian is a writer, and they are going cross county to do a story on serial killers, by visting past murder sites.  They figure they can't afford the trip by themselves, so they put a flyer out seeking someone to share the costs.  Unfortunatly for them Early see's the flyer and decides that it's about time he and Adel leave their trailor home and go someplace new.  As soon as Carrie gets a look at Early and Adel, she knows this is a mistake.  But for the most part they have no idea of just how big a mistake it really is.  For all you ladies out there who see Pitt's films because you think he is just nice to look at, your in for a surprise in this one.  He looks like a real piece of trailor park garbage, and acts it to perfection.  By the time Carrie and Brian found out the truth about Early Grace, there is already a trail of body's behind them.  They say that ignorance is bliss, but that may not be the case for Adel.  Although she doesn't know how evil Early really is, or maybe she just doesn't want to know, finding out the truth does not fair well for her.  This movie is one of my favorites and has a great climatic ending that will leave you wanting more.  If you like really creepy movies, pick this up.  You will not be disappointed!  I wish the Academy would start reconizing these types of films, so Juliette Lewis can finally recieve her long overdue Oscar. This lady is brilliant in every film she does!  I have to go have some reebs now, see ya.  NEVER FORGET 9/11/01!!!!