This movie gets a lot of grief, and it's easy to see why.  A TV show from the childhoods an entire generation (it was made in the 1960s and syndicated as a rerun in the 1970s) is made into a movie at a time when the show is not fresh in anyone's minds nor readily available on home video.  The generation remembers adventure in the Old West with a James Bond twist, great production values and characters who were super cool.  Yes, that generation is right, but in the years that have passed, they forgot (like the makers of some of the recent James Bond movies) what made the show so much fun.  It never took itself quite seriously.

With The Wild Wild West available on DVD now, it's still cool to hate the movie and love the TV series even if you've never watched it or haven't since the 70s.  Well, I'm not going to comment on the collective's ability to dismiss what is a perfectly fun movie as trash while having no recent memory of the show the movie is based on.  What I am going to say is that Wild Wild West actually does a great job of bringing the spirit of the 1960s TV show to a modern audience.  If there hadn't been so much belly-aching when it came out, it could have started a new generation loving the old show.  Of course, Robert Conrad's outspoken criticism of the movie didn't help.

I am a big (read: freaking huge) fan of The Wild Wild West.  It combined the adventure of the Old West with the intrigue and suspense of James Bond.  The main attraction, of course, is the playful relationship between Jim West and Artemus Gordon (or, if you're a woman with simple tastes, Robert Conrad's sculpted behind in tight pants).  Each episode had a similar structure - Jim and Artie have to protect someone or something, that someone or something is stolen or kidnapped, they track down the culprit who turns out to be a lunatic with some strange idea of taking over the country or the world, Jim goes in with guns blazing and gets captured, Artie goes in with a disguise and breaks Jim out, then they both get captured and put in an elaborate death trap from which they escape using their genius and Artie's gadgetry, and, in the end, Jim gets the girl while Artie is left to make the coffee on the Wanderer (their train).  Each episode had its own take on that format, but that was sort of the standard plot.

Artie's gadgets on the show were usually simple - buttons that burned through wood, a derringer on a rail in Jim's sleeve, glasses that allow one to see certain chemicals.  The villains had more elaborate displays - a bubbling machine that runs on the brains of geniuses, a giant flamethrower cannon, and various death traps that used lightning or solar energy.  The king lunatic of their enemies was the resourceful Dr. Loveless, played by the absolutely irreplaceable Michael Dunn.

While there was no way a movie without Robert Conrad, Ross Martin, and Michael Dunn could entirely capture the spirit of the original show, the writers made an honest attempt.  In fact, besides the obvious story arc similarities, there were numerous references to the TV show including Selma Hayek's story which matches a first-season episode in which the main woman (Chinese rather than Mexican) turns out to be married.  Some of the gadgetry from the show appears in the film.  Dr. Loveless is probably the strangest deviation from the original show with his exaggerated southern accent and missing bottom half of his body rather than simply short stature.  The main criticisms most people have of the film are that it had too many one-liners and a lot of over-the-top machines.  As for the one-liners... the original show is full of them!  Jim and Artie make bad puns constantly, and Jim delivers one-liners with the gusto of the worst of James Bond (but still retains his awesome dignity because he's freaking Robert Conrad).  The machines were simply a product of modern movie-making.  The gadgetry of the original show would seem incredibly tame to modern audiences because it was stuff that could be built easily and quickly (and cheaply) for many episodes in one season.  In a movie, you can make a lot of big stuff or animate a lot of big stuff, so they did.  And all of the gadgets are pretty darn cool-looking, even the bemoaned giant spider.  It's funny, but at the time the movie came out, another movie came out called Atlantis: The Lost Empire.  This Disney vehicle was also criticized for being strange.  Yet, today people have realized that it was actually a neat movie because that steampunk aesthetic caught on.

Sadly, no one will accept that over-the-top steampunk look in Wild Wild West because they're too busy comparing it to their finest memories of the Wild Wild West TV show, and that's too bad because it's a fun movie.  Hey, whatever floats your boat, but don't go telling me that I shouldn't be having fun watching something I like.