I've been lobbying the folks at Henson to release this series on DVD for years. Now, with little fanfare but much anticipation, it's here.

  As the description notes, this highly imaginative series was one of Henson's finest works, helped in no small part by the artful writing of Anthony Minghella who would go on to great success in Hollywood. The production values on every one of these episodes are higher than they have any right to be and should stand as an example to many of today's TV producers. Words, images, and music blend together into the kind of poetry that film rarely achieves, much less television.

  I have fond memories of watching the Storyteller as part of the Jim Henson Hour with my family back in the eighties. When the series was bought by HBO and rebroadcast about six years ago, I eagerly taped them all (including the Greek Myths). It's been great having them, but I always hoped for a DVD to present them in the best possible quality. Now it's here!

  This collection includes all nine of the original half-hour Storyteller episodes. Each episode consists of a traditional European fairy tale (most of them of Celtic, Germanic, or Russo-Finnish heritage) told by the Storyteller, played by John Hurt, and his talking dog, who more or less plays the straight-man. Great British talent like Miranda Richardson, Jonathan Pryce, Sean Bean and many others fill out the cast. Characters in the stories occasionally walk through paintings behind the Storyteller, peer through the fire, and generally give the impression that these are stories woven into being, not simply told. Some are a little better than others ("The Soldier and Death" was always my favorite) but all are excellent and gripping from start to finish.

  None of the four Greek Myths episodes are included, but I remain hopeful that those too will see a DVD release. While not on par with their European brethren, they are still very well done. Michael Gambon's narrator is no substitute for John Hurt's charismatic Storyteller, but he does a good job (he IS the next Dumbledore, after all). And the production values are just as high. So another set to look forward to down the road.