Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle should have been renamed to
Charlie's Angels: Everything But The Kitchen Sink.
Because?
Well because the director took it upon himself to throw just about every plot cliche and pop idol, explosion, popular actor/actress to get you the viewer to see this drivel.
Say what is the plot to this film?  
Plot?  I equate the plot to Swiss cheese.  Swiss has holes and the plot to Full Throttle has plot holes so big I can drive my car through them (I drive a Buick LeSabre BTW).  I always thought that Charlie Townsend ran a detective agency and not a top secrete spy shop ala CIA, NSA...etc.
 The beginning of the film has the angels in Mongolia of all places trying to bust out a justice department workers.  My question, which never is addressed, is how did this guy end
up in Mongolia, especially if he holds one piece of a ring that holds encrypted ids for the witness protection program?
On top of that, the other ring, on the hands of another justice department worker is assassinated along with a whole team of agents.  My question is if you knew the first ring was stolen, wouldn't you want to maybe lockup the 2nd ring instead of
giving it to some guy to waltz around with?  Or better yet, why store this info on rings to begin with?
Then lets stretch our disbelief by having 3 chicks perform all these physics defying martial art moves and escape Mongolia with the kidnapped worker sans the ring.
Of course as the angels try to track down who stole the ring, they uncover that Dylan (Drew Barymore's character) is in the witness protection program (plot cliche).  Why who would've thunk of that?!
Also lets add that Dylan's ex-boyfriend, get released from a maximum security prison. Only after serving 8 years in jail. Well - I guess thats believable, right? Sort of like having John Giotti get out of jail and nobody says anything.
 Hello?
While we're at it, why not throw in Crispin Glover's Thin Man character from the 1st Charlie Angels film.  Crispin's character is now reduced to a mysterious screaming, hair sniffing Gomez Adams wannabe instead of the more intriguing martial arts sword
wielding henchman of the first film.  Also the director and writers try, why I'll never know, to make Glover's character sympathetic and get the audience to feel for this guy.
Like all of a sudden the movie wants to be character driven instead of plot driven?  My response to this is perhaps the director needs to get off the junk and think about where this story is going.
But, hey, lets not stop there.  Perhaps the audience will become board at lack of plot and the switching between driving this puppy by character or something trying to be a plot.  Lets throw in some pop stars like Pink or hey, Bruce Willis into the mix to generate some interest!  Hey, how about throwing in Jacqueline Smith into the film to give a T.V. Charlie's Angels passing the mantle to the new Charlie Angels.  Wouldn't that be great.  
By this time my wife is asking me why I'm more interested in reading my Newsweek magazine instead of watching anymore of this nightmare. Of course this movie wouldn't be complete without the coveted blooper reel as the credits role.  Yes, nothing like watching out take after out take of Barymore, Diaz, and
Liu yuk it up over flubs and gaffs.  I can't help but wonder if they are laughing because they are having a good time or laughing at us for watching this really unwatchable film.