When I saw Batman Beyond for the very first time, I concluded that it was good but nowhere near as dramatic or as exciting as the original 1992 Batman animated series, or Mask of the Phantasm for that matter. When I heard that the first ever Batman Beyond movie would feature the Joker's return, I anticipated the movie with high expectations. After I finished watching the film, I concluded that it was fatihful to most die-hard Batman fans, the holder of an amazingly engrossing storyline, fantastic action and mystery, the answerer of questions regarding the future Batman series, and in general, a brilliant movie.
I didn't know it at the time but the version of Return of the Joker i had watched was in fact the edited version. After hearing of the uncut version, I purchased the american DVD to discover what had been edited out. After watching the Uncut version, I immediatly discovered that this was more faithful to the Batman legend than the edited version of the film. The final battle between the Joker and Bruce Wayne is a lot more darker in this version, and how the Joker dies in this version is a lot more appropriate and makes Tim Drake's guilt a lot more understandable and convincing.
This is where Terry McGinnis (the future Batman) truly shines. He ultimately proves to his critics and his peers that he is worthy of the Dark Knight persona. He handles the situation with the Joker very seriously and proves once and for all that he IS Batman.
This movie portays the Joker at his absolute deadliest and once again proves how dark and sinister he is. The Joker has always been the most haunting figure in Bruce Wayne's life, and he certainly doesn't hold back in tormenting his arch-foe even more in this!
Will Friedle(Terry McGinnis/Batman) + Kevin Conroy(Bruce Wayne) voice their characters with supreme excellence but it's Mark Hamill who steals the show (as always) as the Joker. It's always hard to believe that it's Hamill who's voicing the Joker (mainly because he always does such a damn good job of voicng the character) but it is him.
In general, Return of the Joker has a great storyline, amazing animation, fantastic music and is quite easily better than all the live action Batman movies. The edited version is good but the unedited version is a million times better. The uncut version is even better than the legendary ace film known as Mask of the Phantasm, making Return of the Joker (uncut version) beyond a shadow of doubt, the greatest Batman film in existance.
The DVD has first class special features (trailers, documentry, character bios, audio commentry etc) making this an essential purchase for any die-hard Batman fan. If you have to get Return of the Joker, it just HAS to be the uncut version.
There's no contest.