Please don't misunderstand me. I am a "Buffy" fan, not necessarily a "Sarah" fan.

Unlike this move, Buffy was carried by fantastic writing, a pretty good supporting cast, and a relatable premise that high school is, in fact, hell. The Buffyverse just took that idea very literally.

This, sadly, is not the Buffyverse.

The plus side:

Sarah's acting is passable and she plays on the cute appeal so often used in her most famous role.

Who can argue with the good looks of Sean Patrick Flannery? Those fans of him in the Boondock Saints can find him no less appealing for being the uptight manager of Bindel's department store.

It is a cute love story. It's not brilliant, it won't stand the test of time to be considered a real "Classic" in the Casablanca sense of the term but the story is undeniably cute.

Sean Patrick Flannery's secretary, Lois. I love her character and I've never seen Patricia Clarkson do anything less than sparkle on screen. If this movie had more of her character's sharp wit then it might have warrented a higher rating.

The idea of a fairy godfather. Sure, he's only a plot device and gets about 5 minutes of airtime but it's just good to see that fairy godparents believe in equal rights.

The minus side:

It's heartily predictable; though, I'm not sure this is a real minus. Most cheesy, cute romances are predictable.

Because of the formulaic qualities of the script, the movie can drag in parts and reiterate things that really didn't need to be rehashed.

The acting is, at times, flat and this is mostly compliments of Ms. Gellar.

I just find the script to be infantile. No one really grows, no one really changes. The thing that pushes this plot along is Sarah's discovery of transferred empathy through her cooking and this is at the hands, er, claws of her fairy god crab and the desire to have the movie's "hottie"

The long and short of it all, it's a cute movie that I find the urge to watch once in a blue moon. It's not something I'll ever feel the need to own, but it is something I'll pay a buck or two to rent every couple of years if they're not showing it on Starz.