I live in Flint, MI currently but have only been here for 2 years. I am originally from CA and have lived in Hollywood, NYC and London, and relatively cultured and do not have a mullet, missing teeth nor do I kill rabbits in my yard. Whenever I tell people I live here they immediately quip, "Why FLINT? Have you seen Roger and Me?" I finally had to break down and watch it because I was so incredibly curious. This movie aggravates me the same way all of the people in the bars do with all of their complaining and blaming GM for their misery.

They should be blaming the unions because had they not pushed to pay people turning screws on the assembly line higher than the chemists at GM, GM might not have been forced to move to Mexico to stay afloat. Oh, and Michael Moore is full of it. One scene he claims to be in Flint is actually shot in Detroit so don't let him fool you. This movie is full of holes.

If he wanted to help this city so much he would not have portrayed it in such a negative light as he did. Not everyone here is dirt poor and not everyone lives in a shanty on the East side either. If Flint was suffering Flint Bishop airport would not have just expanded, the mall would not be growing, new shops would not be opening all the time.

The hotel opening shown in the movie is sad to me, because thanks to this movie no one would visit Flint and it closed down. Now it is used as a place people rent for weddings etc. and the whole downtown is an empty ghost town.

Ask Michael Moore why he has to travel with so many bodyguards and acts like a diva. Why he moved away from Flint to escape to his newfound wealth in New York or Western Michigan NOT stay and keep his money in Flint. GM gave people jobs, the unions forced GM to move by making ridiculous demands, and Michael Moore put a nail in Flint's coffin with this garbage. If he was so concerned about saving it, why then did he not put money back into it, and years later why has he not done a thing to help it instead of moving away just like good old Roger did?

Thanks to this movie, people might only ever remember Flint for what he painted it to be all those years ago so he could push his own career, and not the important place it once was or it could be if he hadn't stabbed it in the back for profit.

Actor Will Ferrell was just here over a week ago filming for his next movie at a small local bar downtown called The Torch so it should be interesting to see how that turns out.