I had awaited a film that the Times reviewer had called, "so scary I actually had to look away".  I didn't look away.  It starts so promisingly I was thinking modern horror classic.  Unfortunately, producers  Joel Silver and Robert Zemickes did not have to courage to see it through.  1931.  A glorious art-deco Asylum stands at the top of a hill.  We watch  as a nurse operates a hand cranked camera.  It is trained on an operating  table as a doctor operates on a still conscious patient.  They notice a  growing mass of faces watching from above.  They continue the operation.  Suddenly the patents burst in.  The doctors are overrun and there the  violence and imagery is quite shocking.  The camera falls.  The doctor  screams as the knife is turned on him.  Present day.  Four limousines wind  their way up the hill.  We see beautifully framed shots of the participants  as they glance at their invites.  I'm thinking film-noir here and it fits  perfectly.  And here we must leave the narrative.  For after setting the  tone, the story and giving the audience some very unsettling images  already, the film takes the downward turn that will continue to its  conclusion.  It backs away from a what could genuinely have been one hell  of a ride.  The set-up, the setting, the tone, the classic story (5  strangers must stay alive 'till morning to claim $1 million) was perfect;  the execution is not.  And who do we have to blame for this?  Simple: the  studio.  Apparently, Warners wanted a sweet little horror/comedy.  The  director did not and with producers with the power of Silver and Zemickes,  no pushovers by any means, it looks like they were in spilt minds  themselves.  What we get is a cheap, simply bad CGI finale.  When will  filmmakers learn that computer graphics can never be scary?  But the  original ending was indeed shot and all we do see, one brief shot of the  mad doctor, provides one of the most effective moments of the movie.  Alas,  it was all ripped out.  What we do have here is an initial 20 minute  grounding that could have provided the basis for one hell of a creepy, very  effective addition to the horror genre.  What we do have is a  disappointment.  Roll on the uncut DVD version.  * This is a title  that can only be said as they do in the trailers: gravely voice and with a  fast tempo.