Jacobovici presents interesting theories of possible natural causes for the 10 plagues, but like the Midas Muffler man, he "makes it all fit" by juggling dates and numbers. He pushes the date of the Exodus back to 1500 BC and moves the date of the Santorini eruption up 100 years from 1600 to 1500 BC to make the theory work. He claims that Jacob migrated to Egypt in 1700 BC and that they remained there for 200 years. This is a direct contradiction of Exodus 12:40 which distinctly says that they were there for 430 years which would bring the Exodus to around 1270 BC, not 1500 BC and long after the Hyksos expulsion. Also it is highly irregular to equate the Israelites, a farming and herding people who only migrated into Egypt due to famine, with the Hyksos who were a trading and warlike people who took Lower Egypt by conquest and held it for 108 years; they were not slaves in need of deliverance. The Hyksos were not freed due to the 10 plagues; they had to be driven out by the armed forces of Middle Kingdom Pharoah Ahmose who had evidence that they were forming an alliance with the Nubians to take over Egypt entirely.

Jacobovici's claim that the 10th plague was caused by carbon dioxide bubbling up from the water due to seismic activity as in the case of Lake Nyos in the Camaroon in 1986 seems plausible enough, but that was a lake of standing water. Iron deposits and gasses would not normally bubble up in a fast river current as in the case of the Nile. Plus he claims that the reason that only the first-born of Egypt died was because the first-born were highly honored and slept on the first floor as opposed to servants and poor who would have slept on the roofs and thereby not have been exposed to the gas. But would not Pharoah and the royal household also have had the same honors ? and yet none of them died. And would the fact that the Israelites were standing up celebrating the first Passover have been adequate to have kept them from succumbing? Don't gasses rise?

Jacobovivi uses the wall paintings in a tomb at Beni Hasan showing a seeming migration of distinctly non Egyptian peoples with non Egyptian dress and hairstyles to prove that this is evidence of Jacob and his family coming to Egypt in 1700 BC. But the inscriptions date the event to the 6th year of Sesostris II, ca. 1890 BC and are merely a caravan of Semitic traders bringing goods to Egypt for trade. He then uses mass graves of men only, near Avaris to prove the 10th plague of the first-born sons, but again, archeologists findings show that the skeletons range from 18-25 years of age and none younger and many have arrow tips imbedded in them suggesting that these were casualties of war, perhaps even Hyksos soldiers killed by the armies of Ahmose when he drove them out of Lower Egypt. Then Jacobovici goes on to postulate that along with the "mixed company" that left with Moses were Minoans from Avaris who may have crafted the golden Ark of the Covenant and then later sailed back to their homeland and created golden amulets accurately depicting the ark. But the Bible does not mention Minoans as being the goldsmiths who crafted the ark and the Minoans in Avaris were traders who were free to come and go at any time. There is no reason why they would have followed Moses into the Sinai for 40 years incurring the wrath of Pharoah and then return to their homeland later. Plus the amulets are not accurate depictions of the ark which had two cherubim on the lid, not two birds.

And then too, one does wonder why an all creative and omnipotent God would have found it necessary to use the volcano at Santorini to destroy the entire Minoan civilization and other coastal cultures (which had no responsibility whatsoever for Israelite slavery)in order to punish Pharoah with carbon dioxide gas and tsunami's in Egypt. It seems a bit clumsy and inconsiderate to me.