This is Michael Jackson's farewell ode and it was made by, you guessed it, magic. That's right, Kenny Ortega who was the choreographer for the original "This Is It" concert series finds himself the director of "Michael Jackson's This Is It" documentary; what he does is take a big pot and throws in all the essential Michael Jackson elements to not only make the documentary possible, but work to a degree you can't possibly even begin to fathom. Those elements being Jackson's charm, genius of music and dance, choreography and direction, and a speckle of magic. Why it is Jackson's farewell ode is already clear. Throughout the film Jackson has many deep, deep messages for humanity, his words are like that of the most beautiful poem, and tragically the only way the world will be able to hear what he had to say is from this documentary. He was the most human person I knew in the world.

I want to dispel now many notions of what some people think this film is but actually isn't. It isn't a quick cash in by the movie industry (Sony), the director, the promoters, and Michael's relatives to garner money from his death. The fact of the matter is that this documentary was only possible because of the blessings from the Jackson estate. Ninety percent of the film's earnings will go back to the estate (the way it should be). The Jackson family loved their brother, son and father very much and they themselves are already well to do people, why must people assume they are devils trying to make big off Michael's dues? They just lost a relative who they spent a lifetime knowing. Another thing that this film isn't is a insult to his great legacy. Do you remember when Bruce Lee died and the director of the great "Enter The Dragon" also made the posthumous movie "Game Of Death"? That was about the most vile, insulting movie on a great legend's legacy of all time (the movie even went so far as to use cardboard cutouts of Bruce for those who may not have seen it), and the audience took it as such, a joke. This Is It is nothing like that; it is a film that absolutely demands the respect Michael has earned from his fans and audience. There will never be that point at any period in the movie where you have to say "this is wrong" and then you stop watching it. To cut my message short, This Is It is a masterpiece through and through. This was and probably will be the best thing I seen on the big screen this whole year. What an icon!

What it is about to keep it short; the documentary chronicled what would have been Michael Jackson's last performance in England at the O2 arena. By the end of the movie you would have witnessed with what would have been one of the best concerts ever! The film went through his whole set routine from start to finish and every song almost in their entirety. Between music pieces you can see a very warm, good-hearted, human Jackson dealing with some discrepancies with some of the music, dance numbers, and set cues. He handles things in the most professional and adult of mannerisms. From the way he is spoken to and the way he responds back to his co-workers you can tell that right off the bat, Jackson is the orchestrator/boss (whatever you want to call it) of his own show and production, you know that he is in charge. Never rude or mean, he talks to everyone as an equal and with respect. What I wouldn't give for a boss like him, what a guy really.

My heart was irradiated with the warmest feelings of love, peace, and harmony when watching this. Sitting there in the theater seat I was also very hot due to the fact I felt so irradiated. It was intense to say the least. Throughout the film my eyes were so watered up, I was holding in tears the whole movie. The scope of it all and Michael really had just blown my mind. It was so beautiful. By the end of it all, after walking out of the theater I had so much resonating in my mind from what I had just witnessed. I just really felt the need to want to cut loose and dance in the city streets. This is the must see movie of the year. This is Michael Jackson the way he should be remembered. This is it, really! Rest in Peace King of Pop.