I'll be honest right up front: I didn't expect to like Defying Gravity.  I had heard that it was Gray's Anatomy in Space.  Not that there's anything wrong with Gray's Anatomy, lots of people seem to like it, but it's not my cup of tea, Roswell's Katherine Heigl not withstanding.  However, it was summer and there was not much else on and the show had a space ship, so I tried it.  It got off to a weak start, in my opinion, and the constant flashbacks were a little annoying at first although they are not nearly as bad as The Event.  But I stuck with the show and it just keep getting better and better. When ABC stopped it in order to start their regular fall season, I was totally hooked, and looking forward to the resumption of the show.  ABC promised to broadcast the rest, but never followed through on that.

Much has been written about the scientific inaccuracies of the show, and the MagGrav is pretty ridiculous, as is the idea that they're going to Pluto and back in 6 years.  But I put that aside because it is a television program, filmed on Earth, and we have to make some allowances.

Much as also been said about the one dimensional characters, but the same can be said of the first season Star Trek: The Next Generation, and that show eventually got its footing and turned out rather well.

As to the Gray's Anatomy similarity, think about it this way: there have been a lot of dramas about police, lawyers and doctors.  This was an attempt to have a drama about astronauts.  I suspect that the daily routine of living on a space ship would bore most people, so they spiced it up with some interpersonal conflicts and an mystery story arc that could carry the show 6 seasons.

When I finally broke down and bought the DVD, I was tempted to pick up where the show left off, but I'm glad that I didn't.  Watching it again, from the beginning, with a positive attitude this time, was quite a pleasant experience.

One of the best parts of the show is that it is clear from the start is that James Parriott, the show's creator, knew where he was going from start to finish with this show.  I didn't watch Lost because it was quite clear that "Lost" described the writers.  However, when you have a show that introduces something in the second episode and it becomes important in last, you know that you have something worth watching.  Watching the show again from the beginning let me see appreciate the effort that went into the story line.

At some point the crew believes that the hallucinations that they are seeing are because of some regret from their past.  However, this is just the tip of the iceberg. This show's major character subtext is about the choices that we make and how they define us.  Since we are not all perfect, even astronauts, there was a lot potential for drama on the show.

There is a cause for the hallucinations, which is slowly revealed. I am surprised that more people haven't complained about Beta and how it was used by Parriott to drive the show's plot.  However, this plot device is usually used to get the characters into more trouble, not less, so I'm going to cut him some slack here.

So, in general, I ultimately liked that show and wished that I could have seen more of it. The characters, while a little shallow, were getting better, and the show had a good story to tell and told it well.  If it could have sustained it for 6 years is something that we'll never know.

If you're worried that there will be a huge cliff hanger at the end, waiting to be wrapped up in a next season that will never come, fear not. The huge cliff hanger comes in the penultimate episode, and the resolution takes place in the last.  There are some story points that are not wrapped up, Parriott laying ground work for the next season, but ultimately the show ends with "And we're off to the next planet".  And, if you're dying to see how the show would ultimately come out, checkout the following links:

[...]

and

[..]

I personally think that all programs that get cancelled prematurely show post an "How it would have ended" to their fans.