Based on the Alan Moore graphic novel of the same name (which from what I understand was loosely based on a book by Stephen Knight that layed out the Jack the Ripper/Monarchy/Masonic theory in From Hell) this is the best movie I have seen in a long time. Moore is a serious occultist. Even his wikipedia entry says he practices magic and worships a Roman snake diety. He's also very educated on conspiracy related matter so its no wonder that he wrote something like this. Depp does a great job in From Hell. In my opinion he should be acknowledged as one of, if not the, best actors going these days. I was really surprised at how much conspiracy related material made it into a mainstream movie like this. Also how much about Freemasonry got out. Even a reeactment of one of their "secret" initiation vows and rituals. But in typical Hollywood fashion they also snuck in a few references where the people on the Police force who knew what was really going on talked about blaming the Jews and using them as scapegoats.

I admit that I haven't done a huge amount of research on the Jack the Ripper murders but from what I know it appears to me that there was a Masonic coverup, and there is a lot that points in the direction that they were Masonic ritual murders. As far as the murders being hits ordered by the Queen of England and carried out by Masonic henchman in order to kill off everybody that had had knowledge of a baby allegedly Fathered by the Prince and given birth to by a prostitute I know nothing about any of that although it is pretty much par for the course for the historicly documented pattern of psychopathic behavior of the British monarchy. I'd like to get a hold of copy of Knights book and delve into that theory though. From Hell does show how I believe these super elites use the semi-elites as henchman and discard and eliminate them when the mission is accomplished. From Hell is the best movie I have seen in a long time. I'm going to watch it again in 6 months or so just to see of I like it as much the second time around.