The great director Howard Hawks thought Land of the Pharaohs was

his only failure. Yet it was his greatest success. Starring the magnificent

Jack Hawkins as Pharaoh, it shows the futility for those who try to

create an immortality for anyone who creates nothing of value in life.

As with all polticians-whether of the civil, military or religious

branch-Pharoah wished to be remembered throughout history. The less

that someone achieves in life, the more they wish to be remembered. Yet

there is only one way to be remembered: Through the creation of new and

useful property. Whether it is of ideas-such as a Newton or

Einstein-or through tangible "monuments." Such as with

a Christopher Wren, Wilbur Wright or Nikola Tesla.

Wilbur Wright has both a tangible and intangible monument. The airplane

and its technology. Tesla has perhaps the greatest monument of all. It is his

alternating current electricity (AC) that powers the world. It and its

electricity appear intangible. Although the motors and

air conditioners it runs are tangible devices. Its lights-including the

fluorescent lamp he invented-are more ephmeral in nature. Yet very

real if you are suddenly without them. As when there is a brown-out or

blackout caused by socialism. The inability of state-controlled

monopolies to deliver the product. But back to "importance in history"

and immorality...

Only those who create new and useful knowledge leading to new and useful products

can achieve immorality in history. Such as an Archimedes, Galileo, Newton or

Einstein. Also a Frank Sinatra, Louis Armstrong, or Margot Fonteyn. But

never someone such as Pharoah. Whether of the Egyptian or Texas desert. Whose

only "products" are the control of the lives and property of

others. And as Pharaoh did not solve a single societal problem, neither can

a modern American Pharooh. Or any other individual who choses to control the

lives and property of others.

Think of this as you watch this video. Even the haunting music seems to speak of

the futility of the immoral and irrational results of politics...