This is an excellent film. Those who are critical of it for Kurt Russell's lack of dialogue are probably too dense to see what the film is really trying to tell them . They should stick to something like "Sesame  Street" where everything is labouriously explained in explicit detail  so they do not have to make an effort to delve deeper than just a  superficial level. Soldier is more than just an action film . It studies a  character who has been subject to heinous brutality and inhumanity as a  child and how being brainwashed and further subject to the horrors of war  as an adult have created a perfect soldier  , but a terrifying human  being.How could Sergeant Todd be anything other than a robotic killing  machine after suffering through all of that .Then the realisation that he  is obsolete is another crushing blow as that is an awful thing for anyone  to discover . He is beaten , left for dead and then disposed of on a  garbage world like he was nothing . Luckily he is taken in by the planets  inhabitants but life with them is trying though Todd slowly starts to  regain his humanity and gain a new sense of values which differ to what the  army has taught him . But he is soon rejected by the people as he does not  fit in and banished from the colony . The scene where Todd is alone in that  big pipe and sheds a tear is one of the saddest moments as he has once  again been discarded , it almost got me misty-eyed , almost. Todd's  interaction with the family he stays with is great as we get to see how a  person who has never known any affection or adoration copes with the  kindness and affections of the wife and son especially . Through the first  part of the film we feel both scared and in awe of what Todd is , then as  he is forced to cope in a new environment we feel a sense of pity for Todd  and what he was forced to become .  This is an epic film filmed with great  acting , characterisation , special effects and top notch action . I love  the ending with the 1-vs-17 battle with plenty of chance to cheer for the  hero . The line "soldiers deserve soldiers" shows that Todd as a  soldier follows a code which may be brutal but at least he knows that is  opponents are only doing as their told as they too have been bred to act  without free will . A great film all round.Highly recommended!