I was told about this film by a friend when it came out. After days of them insisting that I see it, I was in downtown Portland, Oregon and it was playing at one of the theaters w/ a special sneak preview of a film and a second feature. So, you got 3 films for the price of one. Having absolutely nothing better to do, I decided to go see it by myself. When I arrived at the theater, the showing of Harold and Maude was just getting out. The theater was extremely crowded for a Sunday matinee. When the next film started up, the theater was almost empty. I watched both the sneak preview, and the co-feature and while I was waiting for Harold and Maude to start, the theater began to fill up again until it was FULL. Harold and Maude was the draw! I have never enjoyed a film as much as I did Harold and Maude. After that I returned to the theater 26 times with everyone I could find to see the film. They in turn brought their friends and etc... Harold and Maude was held over at the Guild Theater for a record 42 weeks. I cut the article out of the paper with a picture of the marquee, when they said it had broken records for films held over in the city of Portland at that time.

For years I watched for the film on TV. I never saw it again until one day, after VHS films began to get popular, I found it in a bargain bin in a K-Mart in Idaho and the phenomenon started again. I showed it to all my new friends, relatives and anyone I could talk into sitting throught the film. I have never loaned out my VHS. Am purchasing it on DVD as we speak. And when I get my DVD....believe me, the phenomenon will begin once again as I've moved from Oregon, to Idaho, and now to Nevada... I will create another entire Harold and Maude fan base! This is a wonderful film. Imaginative, Original, Funny, Sad and Refreshing! I see something new every time I watch the film. By the time I'm dead, I'm sure I'll have every frame memorized. This is a film you SHARE with as many people as you can.

After viewing the film, I did find a copy of Ruth Gordon's autobiography. It was great reading. I only wish that I'd met her in person. I saw her on Johnny Carson w/ Bud Cort when the film was celebrating one of it's anniversaries. Either for the VHS release, the DVD release or for a re-release of the film, I can't remember which. But, in the interview, Bud Cort said that many of his friends begged him not to take the role because they thought it would pidgeon hole his career to playing quirky roles. But, he said: "Once I read the script, I knew that I had to play Harold and when I met Ruth, I knew why he fell in love with her." They were close, tight friends until her untimely death. I have watched every thing on film I could find with either of these talented actors. Ruth found more fame playing Clint Eastwood's mother in the "Every Which Way But Loose" film and sequels. Bud's career, was in fact pidgeoned holed to quirky roles so far, but, this is the film that EVERYONE MUST SEE BEFORE THEY DIE! The soundtrack is almost ALL Cat Stevens. If you ever wondered what people saw in him, this movie will show you. It's unfortunate that his career has been overshadowed by his conversion to muslem. He was then and still is an incredible writer/performer. This film proves that.

This film is a black comedy that looks at life, love, war, politics, fashion, music, art and most anything else you can think of through the eyes of a 79 yr old woman and a young man who meets her at a funeral for someone neither of them knew. He's fascinated with staging suicides, she's fascinated with everything in the world and that includes Harold. This is NOT your typical film in any sense of the word. I can't explain it to you or give it away...you HAVE to see it for yourself.

Vivian Pickles as Harold's mother deserved an Oscar Nod for this film as did Eric Christmas as the family Priest.

The Soundtrack for this film is only available in a Japanese Pressing (if you can find it) the closest thing to an American Version of the Soundtrack is "Footsteps In The Dark - Greatest Hits, Vol.2" by Cat Stevens. It "IS" the soundtrack plus a couple of extras tossed in and worth the price of admission to both the film and the LP.