Had I been reviewing this film a year ago, when I first saw it, it may have gotten 2 stars. With my first viewing, I wasn't able to give this film full attention, and this really is a film that demands ones attention, for its nuances of character and flavor. In other words, this is not a plot film - it is a film about character, local color, and a drama so 'under the surface' that if you're not careful, you'll miss it entirely. So this time, I watched with care and I loved every sweet minute. That's why I give it a 5, rather than a 2. 
Sonny, a traveling preacher based in Texas, hasn't been the greatest of husbands and hasn't the greatest of wives. Before you know it, he discover's that his wife is seeing someone else, and want's him gone. What happens next, I won't say, except to tell you that now, Sonny is running not only from his past but from the law as well. Starting anew in Bayou Boutte, Louisiana, we watch Sonny build a small new congregation from the ground up with pure determination and a drive that is made all the more intense by guilt. Sonny, now called "The Apostle E.F." knows it is only a matter of time before his past and the law catch him, and he is intent on making every minute count. Has he succeeded? 
What makes this picture shine is not plot or action, but characters and flavor. Duvall is quite simply one of the best there is and he (as writer, director, and actor) brings out the true subtle beauty in the character, his spirit, and the music that is country preaching (we get quite a few extended sermons and even to a non-believer like me, they are riveting). 
What's more, Duvall went out of his way to cast mostly non-actors and becasue of that, the flavor of Bayou Boutte and the life of a country congregation really shines. Except for Duvall and Beasley, all of the preachers, even, are not only real preachers, but are giving real sermons. Because of all this, this film has all the complicated beauty of life itself, that usually go unnoticed untill a film like this brings them to the forefront for us to take a splendedly fresh look at. The results are simply marvelous. 
To conclude, this film is true art. Art, that is, that taks the real and makes it beautiful again (with out prettying it up). The character of Sonny, Bayou Boutte, and "The One Way Road To Heaven" congregation are not images you will soon forget.