It's an old showbiz maxim that one should always leave one's audience wanting more. By that standard, David Lynch's "Dune" should have been a spectacular success. By trying to tell this story in the time-span of a shortish feature film, Lynch has given us a tantalizing overview -- filled with fleeting situations and characterizations that were gone before I could grasp them.I've seen this film many times and keep wanting to see "the rest" of the story -- or at least every inch of film that got left on the cutting room floor.
Because, despite its flaws in coherence, this is gallant and often magnificent effort -- to my mind far more true to Herbert than the rather-too-glitzy miniseries. Just before the film's release in 1984, I read a detailed article on it in the now-defunct "SF" magazine. In the article, Lynch described his vision of Frank Herbert's "Dune" universe -- as an ancient and degenerate culture where innovation has stagnated and civilization is ruled by tradition, protocol and superstition. To realize this vision, he created an environment where everything -- buildings, clothes, technology -- is too heavy, too ornate, ponderous and overdone. Since the Guild Navigators can transport anything by "folding space", the ships don't have to be sleek and aerodynamic -- instead they're slow and unwieldy. The women's court clothes make Elizabethan garb look lightweight. There's a wonderful scene when Rev. Mother Gaius is leaving the reception room and I'll swear that her train and veil extend 20 feet behind her. The Navigator's travel tank looks like a cross between an Art Deco railroad car and a restaurant's lobster tank. All the machinery is oversized and clunky -- as it would be in a civilization that had fought a jihad to rid the universe of so-called "thinking machines."
Far from the centers of power, the world of Arrakis is life stripped down to its barest essentials. The fremen's appearance is what one would expect from people living on a harsh, waterless world where they've been hiding in subterranean compounds for millennia -- they're ragged and dirty. Only the stillsuits are whole, even these are dirty. The only bits of color and beauty they posses are their blue-within-blue eyes. 
The only "world" where I thought Lynch's vision was offbase was House Harkonnen. The baron is a caricature of evil rather than the real thing -- disgusting to look at, but without the intelligence and guile to make him a truly dangerous adversary.
So many of the performances of this international cast are marvellous -- if only you got to see more of each one. Francesca Annis, Linda Hunt, Richard Jordan, Jurgen Prochnow, Sian Phillips, Dean Stockwell, Freddie Jones (Thufir Hawat)among others are all wonderful. 
But to me the real standout is Kyle McLachlan. His portrayal of Paul Atreides combines a young man's impetuosity with the gravitas expected of the Atreides heir and that Something Else that makes his elevation to near godhood by the fremen eminently believable. And it is mainly the characterization of Paul in the miniseries that gives me the biggest problem -- maybe it's my age, but I just don't think spiky hair and an attitude problem a messiah make -- no matter how dazzling the sfx.
No, for me, this earlier film, with all its flaws, is as close to the "real" Dune as I think the film makers art can get. Unless of course, David Lynch were to do a re-edit to create a mini-series. I'm sure the footage exists -- I was lucky enough to see a director's cut on late night TV once (4+ hours) that nearly satisfied my craving for "more".
My recommendation? Read the book, then see this film. Then, if you like, watch the miniseries and then maybe read the book again. I think you'll agree that it is David Lynch, not the creators of the miniseries, who truly see "Dune" with Frank Herbert's eyes.