Ken Burns' "The Civil War" has been nit-picked for various offenses of minutia in the reviews here.  Virtually none of the criticisms are worthy to deny the quality of this work.  Many seem to be the automatic criticism given to any work which achieves popular success.
"The Civil War" is an excellent introduction to this very important episode in American history.  It is presented to the viewer wrapped with several techniques that make the material more palatable to the viewers.  
The music is the primary technique that one encounters.  The "Lorena" theme that flows throughout the film is a hauntingly pleasant tune that provides continuity.  Other, appropriately-placed tunes provoke the emotions for the event being described.  This is a technique used in most films, but rarely done so well as in "The Civil War".
The choice of narrators for the various characters in the war was also done remarkably well.  The slightly soft and solemn voice used for Robert E. Lee promoted the grand illusions that so many have for this very human and fallible man.  The main narrator for the film possessed a clear voice that was easy to listen to for long periods of time.
Interesting, tangential elements like the 104-year-old lady added much to the watchability of the film.  She recited a poem from memory of such length that one wouldn't expect a person of advanced age to recall it.  Shelby Foote's occasional unexplainable humor was also interesting to watch.  He would recite some simple comment by a soldier and then chuckle about it, leaving you wondering how he had extracted so much humor from that simple statement.  It was quite amusing.
Historical revisionists object to the portrayal of slavery in the movie.  In actuality, Burns didn't give much of a view of slavery at all.  However, slavery had such a key role in the war that it could not be concealed to the level that the revisionists desire.  While neither side in the war had emancipation as a major motivating factor initially, the slavery issue had a massive and overwhelming effect on the outcome.  Any less attention to slavery by Burns would have invalidated his work.  Slavery is an issue that many have tried to defuse, but none have been successful.  Now, they just try to historically conceal it.  Ken Burns' movie makes their job just a little more difficult.
I could go on for some time about "The Civil War".  I have owned the set for some years and have watched it repeatedly.  There is a companion book that provides additional information, and references for further reading to cover parts of the war that could not be addressed in a movie of this length.  Being a long-time Civil War buff that has finally had the opportunity to live in Virginia where much of it happened, I am reading everything I can find about the subject and visiting battle sites.  This movie is one of my favorite sources of events that I can further investigate.