The movie Love at First Bite is, simply put, an under-appreciated comedy classic.  Its take on the classic vampire genre certainly has to rank among the best and most original treatments ever made.  The film is fun, goofy, and, as a light-hearted romantic comedy, the film works on all levels... if you're in a frame of mind to have a bit of fun.

Set in New York City of the late 1970s with a dose of Saturday Night Fever and a dash of Blaxploitation, the clever script, though written in the 1970s, holds up well today.  The jokes are still funny.  The performances of George Hamilton, Arte Johnson, Richard Benjamin and the sexy Susan Saint James, not to mention the film's strong supporting cast really make this movie one of a kind - especially Hamilton and Johnson who turn in classic performances.  Hamilton may be the best Dracula of all time whether we want to face it or not, and Johnson's Renfield is pure weirdness and hilarity.

Today, the film has a definite retro appeal for first-time viewers and a boatload of nostalgia for those that saw it during its original run.  Love at First Bite really deserves to rank among the great comedy classics of the era, right up there with Caddyshack and Animal House.  I really appreciate this film and give kudos to all those involved.

Yes, it's just a silly little movie really... but a smart, funny one that somehow captures the era of the late 1970s as well as any film out there while being a first-rate Dracula movie and a great comedy all at the same time... a seemingly impossible task that they really pull off from the opening credits to the end.

But... this isn't a review of the film, but of a product - the DVD release.

As has been mentioned over and over and over, the failure to include the song "I Love The Nightlife" on the DVD in order to save a few licensing bucks may have ruined this film's chance to achieve the status of cult classic and even if that's overstating it, removing this fantastic song has completely and utterly ruined a classic film moment.  Whoever made that decision should be fired for their shortsightedness and incompetence.  After all, the song appears on how many 70's compilations?  It couldn't possibly have been that expensive to re-license for the DVD.

What a tremendous let down and a missed opportunity.  The disco scene, which is both completely silly yet somehow a sweet and romantic seduction - not to mention exhilaratingly fun (Dracula disco dancing... and doing it so well, a scene so completely ridiculous it's great... I wish they had taken it even farther) should be considered a great moment in the history of film.  It looks like, now, it never will have an opportunity to earn its just place among the cult classics of the era and receive the attention it deserves because the best and most memorable scene in the film - its marquee moment - has been completely ruined by the uninspired, lazy, and out-of-sync filler song they use on the DVD.

As you can see from all the reviews, it's not a minor thing.  The people that mention this and are upset by it are not being petty.  Editing the song out is an act of vandalism.

Love at First Bite is still a great comedy film without this scene, but they've ruined its truly magical moment.  Perhaps in other situations, in other films, one might be able to get away with this sort of cost cutting, but not here.

Don't buy this DVD any more than you'd buy a version of Casablanca in which they replace "As Time Goes By" with some cheap substitute.  Would it still be Casablanca without As Time Goes By?  No less a crime has been committed here by removing Alicia Bridges's timeless disco tune.

Hopefully, the powers that be will eventually realize they have a potential cult classic on their hands and fix this in a future release. Or perhaps they'll realize, given all the complaints here, that what they've really done is deface a great little bit of 1970s film history.