Death Wish stars Charles Bronson as Paul Kersey and is based on the novel by Brian Garfield. Paul Kersey is a mild-mannered man who lives with his wife and daughter in New York City. One day while he is at work his wife and daughter are assaulted by hoodlums who follow them home from the grocery store. His wife dies and his daughter is so traumatized that she is put into a mental institution. The police tell him that they will do everything they can but there is only a small chance that they can catch the men. Paul takes his loss as best he can.

After the tragedy he goes out west for a job. He clears his head, makes a friend, and is given a gun.

When he returns home, he finds his daughter Carol still in the same troubled state while her husband Jack struggles to cope with it.

One night he goes out for an evening stroll. He takes his gun. When he is accosted by a mugger, he uses it and shoots the man dead. He leaves the scene and rushes home. He is overwhelmed by the experience and vomits. He is overcome with fear and emotion but he begins to fall in love with the danger of his nightly strolls and the cathartic power of defending oneself. Without much effort the muggers find him and every time you know that Kersey has a bullet waiting for them. He walks in deserted places. He sits by himself on a subway. He sticks his head in an alley when he sees some punks ganging up on one man. He only pulls out his gun to defend himself but he kills each attacker and leaves the scene each time. He becomes a hero to many, muggings go down and the vigilante, as the press calls him, inspires others to stand up to muggers.

Death Wish is a story about a man taking action because he doesn't want to live in fear anymore. He makes a death wish and he begins to love it. Even when the police are on to him, he still feels the need to go out and make himself a target so he can defend himself and kill thugs in the process. His death wish has become his life and he cannot stop. When the police give him an ultimatum, he has to, at least in New York.

There is a lot of suspense in Death Wish. There is the fear and tension that this will be the night Kersey will be caught or that this will be the night that the muggers will get him. The punks who killed Kersey's wife and raped his daughter are out there somewhere although they never turn up again.

Herbie Hancock's score gives the film a jazzy rhythm as well as to highlight the tension. Vincent Gardenia stands out as the no-nonsense Police Inspector who catches Kersey. Jeff Goldblume is hard to forget as "Freak #1".