Based on the Hong Kong thriller, "Infernal Affairs" (2002), Martin Scorsese's "The Departed" is a shotgun blast to the pandering cinema that has afflicted the American screen of late.  Scorsese has returned to the urban crime-drama genre that he helped to make famous with "Mean Streets" (1973) and "Goodfellas" (1990).

 Scorsese, a consummate auteur, shares many thematic interests with his screenwriter, William Monahan. A Boston police officer, William Costigan (Leonardo DiCaprio), goes undercover in the local mob with the hope that he may purge himself of his family's criminal history (redemption and honor being major themes in Scorsese's films, such as "Gangs of New York"). Costigan's job is to provide enough evidence to allow the police to apprehend the head mobster, the lurid and merciless Frank Costello (Jack Nicholson). Costello has infiltrated the police force with a mole of his own, Colin Sullivan (Matt Damon), who Costello has been grooming since childhood (corruption being another important theme for Scorsese, see "Goodfellas"). Each of the moles quickly becomes aware of the other's presence, and they both realize that if either is going to survive, he must quickly find his opponent.

Monahan lathers his screenplay with the most vulgar language this side of Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction."  Supporting actors Alec Baldwin and Mark Wahlberg, who both play upper level officers, deliver deliciously profane dialogue with side-splitting ease and authority.  Matt Damon infuses the antagonistic Sullivan with poise, sophistication, and charisma.  Leonardo DiCaprio's protagonist is conversely something of a blunt and unstable instrument.  DiCaprio's work recalls that of James Dean, as he plays a frazzled young man waging war with the world and within himself.  Surprisingly, screen legend Jack Nicholson is something of a weak link in the cast.  He uses his trademark mixture of charisma and menace in a familiar and admittedly somewhat goofy portrayal of villainy.

The real star of the film is Scorsese.  Taking a cue from an early exchange between Wahlberg's character and Costigan - "What's the matter don't you know any Shakespeare?" - Scorsese's presents the film as though it were one of the playwright's tragedies.  Tragic and comedic tones are expertly juxtaposed.  Music, be it classic rock or Howard Shore's score, is ever present.  The Rolling Stones' "Gimme Shelter" is used to great effect during the film's opening.  It acts as a harbinger of things to come.  Violence is explosive and brutal. Michael Ballhaus' lighting is atmospheric and exaggerated.  Note a scene in Sullivan's office where a bizarre light effect casts an X across the wall (Scorsese litters the mise en sc&egrave;ne with X's, both as an homage to Howard Hawks's "Scarface" and a visual representation of Sullivan and Cositgan's duality).  Relentless camera movement and Thelma Schoonmaker's jump cuts further give rise to a sense of nerve-jangling tension.

Under Scorsese' own admission, "The Departed" is his first attempt at a film with a plot.  On paper, the film does indeed represent one of his more traditional, studio-friendly ventures.  He is working with a very bankable cast and a three-act narrative (most of his films have been more concerned with character studies than a archetypal stroyline).  Despite the creative limitations that may be associated with a more commercial project, Scorsese is more than able to elicit his own passions.  "The Departed" is a fierce, raucous entertainment that is not to be missed.