The movie is a story of two sisters who have personalities on the opposite ends of the Bell Curve.  One is a career-focused workaholic lawyer, Rose Feller (Toni Collette),  who is drab and slightly plump.  Rose has one weakness of wonderful, colorful expensive shoes she can always fit, but never wears outside her apartment.  She also likes to fill her fridge with delicious Haagen-Dazs Ice Cream.

She has a younger sister, Maggie (Cameron Diaz) who is blond, tall, shapely, beautiful, dyslexic, binge drinker, and seductress.  Her sister Ruth is constantly rescuing her from parties, high school reunions, and one night stands.  Maggie also likes to borrow Rose's shoes - and wears them outside the home.

The movie opens with a rescue by Rose returning her to her parent's home.  The stepmother has had enough of Maggie's irresponsible behavior and throws her out of the house.  Rose takes her to her home.

Rose soon tires of Maggie's behavior, irresponsibility and failure to find a steady job.  The last straw is a heart-wrenching betrayal . Maggie seduces Rose's new and only love in many years.  He also was her immediate supervisor at the law firm.  Rose throws Maggie out of her home.  She is also so traumatized she quits the law firm she had dedicated her life to.  She survives and learns who really cares for her.  She also falls into a dog-walking job and finds true love with another lawyer she used to work with.

Maggie, looking for money to survive goes through her father's drawer and finds a bunch of hidden letters from her grandmother.  She thought the grandmother did not care about her or her sister so opens each one - a birthday card with notes of love and hope to see her.

Because she has no where else to go, she travels to Florida to see her maternal grandmother (Shirley McClain) in a Florida Retirement Community.  She wants to milk her for financial help but finds a new view on life.  It is amazing how Maggie learns to grow into a mature woman and the retirement community is a hoot.

The grandmother also wants to see Rose and finds Maggie is hesitant - so looks through her purse and contacts Rose to come visit as well.  The family secret of how and why their mother died is revealed and faced as the sisters remember the fun they had together.  After the grandmother and sisters  reunite they realize how they need and love each other and how important facing the harsh truth and forgiving is..

It is a good story for both men and women.  The family drama and laughs are honest and give us valuable lessons on growth and facing life's challenges.