This movie has always been a guilty pleasure of mine. I didn't know so many other people liked it too. This film was first released for home audiences on high quality VHS, then Laser Disc,then low quality VHS but has been off the market for years replaced by an lackluster remake starring lackluster Darryl Hannah. While this film was unavailable on DVD, the price on the secondary market soared... Now, it's finally on DVD and you MUST have this version, even if you own one of the others because there is a commentary by Yvette Vickers! Honey Parker herself! You won't see Yvette, but she sounds great and her comments and memories are interesting and informative. POOR NANCY ARCHER! (Allison Hayes). She has everything. She's a voluptuous Jane Russell type beauty with 50 Million bucks in 1958 dollars, the fabulous Star of India diamond which looks as though it was plucked from the nearest chandelier, a 1958 Imperial Crown convertible, an alchohol problem, a history of institutionalization, and a philandering husband named Harry (William Hudson) who looks like a poor woman's William Holden. To make matters worse, Harry's been carrying on with a sexy, mercenary little tramp named Honey Parker (Yvette Vickers). Think Dorothy Malone in "Written on the Wind". One night, driving home through the California desert from the local gin mill, Nancy almost collides with a Satellite! (Actually, it's a weather balloon). A semi-transparent (poor back projection) giant in a Robin Hood getup from Western Costume emerges and reaches for Nancy's diamond. She runs back to town screaming! Of course, nobody believes her. Harry and Honey decide to take advantage of the situation by trying to get Nancy committed to an asylum again. Meanwhile, back at Nancy's desert Mansion with manicured, rolling lawns where she and Harry apparently live in the foyer with the services of only one servant, an elderly butler named Jess who looks like an undertaker, Nancy decides to prove her sanity by going to look for the satellite and the giant armed with a .38, her thirty-eights, Harry and her Imperial. They find the giant, but this time he reaches out and grabs Nancy, carrying her off. Harry panics and tries to leave town but is stopped by the local sheriff. The sheriff finds Nancy on top of the pool house. There are strange purple bruises around her throat and she is unconscious. The spaceman was after her diamond. It seems that his ship is powered by precious stones. Meanwhile, when a nurse checks in on Nancy, the nurse finds that Nancy, contaminated, has grown into a giant, represented by a large hand that looks like papier-mache spread over a form made of chicken wire, complete with enormous painted fingernails. The doctors want to operate (On what?). Harry and Honey decide to lie low. Honey says:"Just let her blow up like a balloon." Nancy "comes to". She arises, tearing the roof off her house. She heads for town dressed in a skirt torn from a bedsheet that looks like something Tina Turner used to wear in the 70's and a top with support wires in it. Well, what could she do? She couldn't be nude! This was 1958!. "HARRY,HARRY,WHERE'S MY HUSBAND! HE'S WITH THAT OTHER WOMAN" she screams. The Deputy says: "First she'll tear up the town, then she'll tear up Harry". He's right. She does and she does. A rag doll in a suit stands in for Harry. (The Ken doll hadn't been invented yet). Nancy grabs a power line and she and Harry are electrocuted. A Doctor pronounces: "She finally got Harry, all to herself". This short recap doesn't begin to capture the melodramatic energy that Hayes, Vickers and Hudson put into these performances. There's a great score by Ronald Stein. Yes, you'll laugh. Yes, the film sags when the principals are not on screen, but you won't turn it off and you won't look away. Believe it or not, the title of this review is an actual line of dialogue from this movie. I can't believe that the writers of this script didn't get the implications of this statement, even back in 1958. I saw this and loved it when I was a 14 year old kid. It only gets better with time. THIS is a true Cult Camp Classic. Maybe the best ever. Fire up the DVD player and grab some popcorn!