Take my advice...save your money and don't buy this DVD.

I usually like all kinds of movie, from the action to the romance, but I was insanely disappointed by this movie.

First of all, the movie starts out with what you think is a plot. That this guy is going all over to try and the cure to this unexplainable poison he was injected with. And because of the type of poison it is, he has to continually keep his adrenaline up to keep from dying. But the movie ends up being plotless and pointless. I mean, you spend this whole time watching the movie and waiting for him to get the cure only to find out that there isn't one and he dies by falling out of a helicopter. What? Who wrote that? Where they thinking at all? It really seemed like the writers for this screenplay got bored halfway through and rushed through to get an ending.

Not only that, but most of the scenes in the movie where very unbelievable. I mean, he gets knocked out and injected with a poison that's supposed to kill him when his adrenaline lowers. So why didn't it kill him when he was unconcious after being shot up? And how come some times he can slow down with nothing, but later on he slows down for a few minutes and its suddenly "Oh no I'm going to die! I have to shoot up this place and beat all these people up!"

The movie makes it very hard to feel for anyone in it. When you start to feel bad for the main character, you find out he's a killer and the reason this is happening is because he killed someone that this other person cared for. Okay, so why am I supposed to feel bad for him now? Life comes full circle right?

And then you think he's getting close and you get some information from this guy in the bathroom of a bar. And then all of a sudden he's beating the crap out of a bathroom full of big strong men by himself? Yeah...okay...

And then he's able to shoot up a hospital full of guards with guns and not one guard can hit him standing in a straight hallway? Wow...

And you can't even feel bad for the girlfriend that has been lied to because she allows herself to be "Raped" on a public street over a mailbox in front of a school bus to save a man that always lied to her and killed people for a living.

And then after suffering through jerky camera work, stupid "plot" twists in a plot that doesn't even seem to be there in the first place, you get to the end only to find out what you've been waiting for during the entire movie ISN'T going to happen. Wow...what a waste...And then as he's falling to his death from a helicopter, he's able to take the time to make a slow and casual phone call to his girlfriend? Wow...just, wow....

So basically, you have this movie that's supposed to action paced and fast paced yet has the most anti-climatic ending in an action movie that I have seen yet.

Needless to say that both me and my husband where very disappointed in this movie and wish that we had rented it rather then buying it and saved ourselves the $20 dollars.

If you must see this movie on your own, rent it before buying it to judge it for yourself. Because as far as people I've talked to, I've yet to met a person that thought it was good.