Charlie Chaplin said that once he made The Great Dictator, his first all-sound movie, it was time to retire the "little fellow," but I could not help but feel he was wrong. How much do I love this movie? I first saw it in a movie theater in college (a revival). I later was over in Spain freelancing for various newspapers and I saw it dubbed into Spanish in early 1976: Spanish dictator Francisco Franco had just kicked the bucket and this flick, banned by him since its original release, was released. Audiences stood up and cheered at the top of their lungs when the Jewish barber (the classic tramp character), having mistakeningly traded places with the Hitler-like dictator (also played by Chaplin), delivered a rousing speech about liberty and humanity. I saw this movie 13 times in Spanish and it helped me learn the language (I did news features on its 1976 release in Spain for The Christian Science Monitor and other papers, plus one for the international edition of Newsweek). Then I came back to the United States, bought it on video and watched it about 20 more times. Why do I LOVE this movie -- and recommend everyone who can afford it buy it? A lot of reasons: a)Classic comedy bits. The timing as usual is superb. There are a slew of bits, such as the Jewish barber shaving a nervous customer in time to classical music, that are absolutely hilarious. b)Classic slapstick: the food fight between the Hitler-like dicator and the absolutely nutty Mussolini-like dicator played by a scene stealing Jack Oakie is worth the price of the tape (ANYONE who likes slapstick including Stooges fans would love it!), c)The no-mercy satirization of Hitler and his regime; Chaplin later said he wouldn't have done it if he knew had brutal Hitler had been but it still has never been matched, d)the dictator's loving play with the world globe, e)the serious message about humanity and religious freedom, f)the speech on freedom at the end. A word on this: critics sometimes called this speech jarring. It was to me the first time I saw it. But it clearly is the actor speaking to the world, delivering a message that transcends a movie or theaterical piece. It is from Chaplin's soul and deeply felt. And given the historical context this speech is remarkable. If I had ONE Chaplin movie to show to high school students this would be it. I showed it to a 4th grader and he loved it.