The Special Edition of "Elvis: That's the Way It Is"  IS indeed special.  From its original release date in the early 70's this concert tape has always been the best performance documentary about Elvis, but at the same time it was always a strange combination of triumph and disappointment.  "Special Edition" remedies the disappointment and makes the triumph all the greater! 
The director of the original movie was Dennis Sanders. He chose to include a great amount of distracting "fan" footage.  I always considered myself an Elvis fan, but the fans shown in this movie always embarrassed me.  Surely I wasn't like them... Ick!!! They seemed so "weird," so boring, so uncritical and fawning, and I always felt they did not reflect well on Elvis nor on Elvis fans.  Their extensive inclusion in the original movie brought the film to a near halt. You couldn't fast forward to the next Elvis footage quickly enough!
This new version, "Special Edition" is almost a totally new movie. It is simply amazing.  It reduces the distracting fan segments to almost zero and adds much interesting material unused until now. Elvis was at the very beginning of the "comeback" having many new hits and successes that added to his confidence.  The voice many of us had feared was gone forever after the lazy 60's movie years, was suddenly back, exciting audiences all over the world again. 
The first half of this "Special Edition" film shows preparations for the Vegas opening. First in Los Angeles with the Imperials and Sweet Inspirations practicing to Elvis recordings. Then rehearsals with Elvis in Las Vegas.  The way in which Elvis prepared, how he was fully involved in the arranging of his music is remarkable.  His playfulness, self-deprecating humor, his clowning around with his band members is very amusing and charming.  The second half of the film is the actual performances  in the main showroom at the International Hotel, Las Vegas in 1970.  The film notes that the performances shown here were filmed and selected from six different shows.  I like that kind of honesty in a documentary. It is glorious to see this greatest of American entertainers at his best.  At 35, Elvis has never looked better:  handsome, healthy, slender, working his audience like a magician.
Everyone in popular music today owes a debt to Elvis.  His influence was world-wide, yet few modern American performers acknowledge any influence from Elvis Presley. Perhaps they don't realize how the singers they do feel influenced them were in turn influenced themselves by  Elvis in a long chain.  These people all need to look at this new "Special Edition".  It is interesting to note that unlike American performers, two Belgian singers, 31-year-old Helmut Lotti and 13 year-old Michael Junior list Elvis as major influences on their own styles.  Check out Lotti's "Romantic" right here on Amazon. You'll think you're listening to a reincarnated Elvis.  Or check out Michael Junior,  also here on Amazon, the most astounding child singer in many, many years.
"Elvis, That's the Way It Is, Special Edition" belongs in every serious popular music fan's collection.  Buy it today, especially the DVD version.  It is truly a triumphant historical document that is as alive and relevant today as it was in 1970.