This movie is forced...the dialogue is forced...the images are forced...the cuteness is forced...
I like the point that the movie seemed to make:  listen to loved ones and their (annoying) stories because when they're gone they live on in our memories and through those stories.  However, the manner and course that this movie took to make this point wore me out.
My mother-in-law had heard many good things about this flick and grabbed it for us to watch as a family.  No problem.  When the movie opened, and I saw Tim Burton's name flash on the screen, I thought, "Uh, oh.  It's going to be weird."  Then I realized the Ewan McGregor was in it, and I thought, "Uh, oh.  This could be painfully cheesy."  Big Fish was on both counts.
I understand that part of the charm of the movie was to be the intricate web of details and colorful language of the father's stories...but...they just didn't seem "real".  Yes, I know that there was supposed to be a blending of the real and unreal...but the stories felt more like someone was trying to be cute and artsy and clever with language instead of the down-home, fanciful, and folksy character of the father.  I couldn't by the "way" the stories were told.
This movie also lacked continuity...which was supposed to have been provided by the stories.  What does a car submerged in a river with a naked lady swimming by (whom I'm guess was the oft-referred-to Big Fish)...when the car then turns up in a tree after the storm the next morning...have to do with the rest of the movie?  Maybe I'm just a simpleton, but I didn't get the symbolism...
The most redeeming part of the movie is the very end, when the sons tells the story of how the father dies, weaving in all of the other stories of his life...but it wasn't worth sitting through all the rest of the forced scenes and subplots and one dimensional characters to get there.
Instead of wasting over 2 hours watching this flick, sit down with your parents or grandparents and listen to their stories.  Don't let the stories of their youth be a big fish that gets away when they're gone.