If only I could give this zero stars.

This is the worst kind of pseudo-scientific "expos&eacute;". The filmmakers should have just chartered a private jet and gone up and taken a sample of one of their supposed "chem-trails", then had it independently analyzed. Would have been a far better use of the money spent on making another alarmist film for the true believers of this 10- or 15-year-old conspiracy creed.

The film is spearheaded by G. Edward Griffin, a long-time conspiracy theorist, 'documentary' producer, and John Birch Society member. (Look him up on Wikipedia to get an idea where the guy stands on cancer treatments, the Federal Reserve, and Noah's Ark. That will set an appropriate tone for the movie.) The film starts with the assumption that something sinister is going on owing to anecdotal evidence that there are 'obvious' differences between real airplane contrails and 'chem-trails'. Snippets from several Geo-engineering lectures and panel discussions are presented where scientists are exploring ideas on how climate change might be arrested or reversed by spraying materials such as aluminum into the upper atmosphere. A few basically innocuous sentences are taken out of context and highlighted as representing a nefarious agenda. Suddenly, the filmmakers have their connection between these strange airplane contrails and (supposedly) elevated levels of aluminum, barium, and strontium being discovered independently in water and soil samples around the country. And it's all downhill from there: for the remainder of the film we are subjected to ominous mood music and much worry from mostly ordinary people (including one middle school girl) and a very few eccentric-looking 'scientists' about what might be going on in the skies above. Some 'evidence' of elevated levels of the aforementioned elements is presented; at other times, there are completely tenuous connections made without any supporting biochemical analysis wherein alarmed observers decry what is happening to trees whose bark is turning silver or peeling off at rate never before seen by these particular individuals. The conclusion? Well, it *must* be the chem-trails!

Two more examples of the kind of 'evidence' used to incite us to believe that something strange is going on:

A little girl's hair is shown to have an abnormally high level of aluminum; but it turns out the levels were measured against a scale used for adults; and multiple sources show that children excrete much higher levels of aluminum than adults do. So the evidence says nothing. (And what about the rest of the girl's family, or her friends and neighbors? Surely, they would also have shown unusual levels of aluminum? But of course the film doesn't even mention this avenue of investigation.)

Another bit of 'evidence' looks at the alarming level of aluminum in a 'water' sample; but it turns out that the sample was not of water, but of *sludge*--water mixed with soil--and that the levels of aluminum in this *soil* sample are perfectly within normal boundaries. There's basically no scientific rigor in the presentation of findings. This is only a fact-finding mission insofar as the filmmakers have already come to a conclusion and are now using very selective evidence to 'prove' their case, while ignoring everything that flies in the face of their beliefs.

I wonder if these believers have ever really considered the massive levels of secrecy that would need to be behind this conspiracy (which supposedly extends to other NATO countries). I mean, we're talking about thousands of engineers, technicians, pilots, and ground crew--not to mention the military and government officials (and their staff) in on the plan *as well as* all the independent soil, water, and atmospheric analysts around this country and others. And there's been no whistle-blower? Nobody armed with a cellphone camera has come forward with incriminating pictures of modified planes to post on Wiki-leaks? Nobody can gather conclusive evidence of tampering from soil samples results from around the country? Nobody has been able to take a plane up and get even *one* chemical sample during this supposedly *massive* effort to coat the atmosphere? Nobody? Really?

And what of the supposedly persistent haze that now covers our once clear blue skies? Do these people have any idea how much air traffic has grown since the 1970s? The number of planes in the sky at any one time? The number of routes that have been added? Have they heard nothing of 'global dimming'--the result of the increase in atmospheric particulates, much of it as a result of air traffic? Yes, it may be cause for concern, but pollution and 'Geo-engineering cover-up' are not the same thing.

What about the 'differences' between contrails and the supposedly persistent 'chem-trails'? I was going to pick apart the most obvious evidence bit by bit, but after a bit of research I had to say, "Why bother?" Someone else has already done the debunking: just Google "contrail science" and choose the website of the same name. Hilariously, there are chem-trail believers posting there who, despite repeated requests for verifiable data, can offer no proof of their own--only insinuations that the webmaster is an arm of the government cover-up (they would probably say the same thing about me!). It's like trying to reason with religious fundamentalists who deny the evidence behind evolution.

In my opinion, the chem-trail hoax basically preys on the fact that many people are disillusioned with government, poorly-educated in critical thinking, and that direct study of contrails and other atmospheric phenomena is out of reach of the majority of people. Many also seem to share a general disillusionment with science and technology for their role as tools in the widespread destruction of the ecosystem. Hence their suspicion of any scientific data that contradicts their foregone conclusion that ordinary people are at the mercy of some secret ruling elite.

If you are a critical thinker and are familiar with scientific method, I recommend this movie for a good laugh. Or maybe you are skeptical, but willing to concede the possibility that something *might* be going on; in this case, watch the movie. Just don't stop there! Check out the alternative explanations on the website mentioned.

If you are already a True Believer, then no amount of contrary evidence is going to convince you that Geo-engineering on this scale is not yet going on. Watch this movie with your like-minded friends and continue to call all the skeptics 'sheeple' while you pride yourself on possession of top-secret knowledge.