It's no secret that Wood Allen is an enthusiastic fan of Bergman, a director he has attempted to emulate in some of his serious dramas, such as Interiors. Arguably Bergman's most accessible film is Wild Strawberries, which follows an ageing professor on a journey of self-revelation as he travels to Stockholm for a varsity ceremony to be held in his honour. It is a fearless film about lost opportunities and regret, and yet it is not pessimistic. Although Allen denied it in interviews, Another Woman unfolds as though it is the New York director's homage to Wild Strawberries with scenes and sequences that more than resemble the Bergman classic. Allen's film has been described by some as a dour, cold and detached drama, and was not well received on its initial release. During this same period in the 80s, the prolific Allen wrote and directed an offbeat metaphysical comedy called Alice (1990) that contains many of the themes present in Another Woman although wrapped up in comic misadventures and magic realism. Despite its comparative blandness, Alice was well received and may suit some viewers more than this serious and occasionally sombre work. Over time Another Woman has slowly won increasing numbers of fans who have been profoundly moved by its candour.

Allen takes his lead character, Marion, on a painful journey through her memories, providing revelations through dreams, chance encounters and flashbacks. Having rented an apartment to work on a new book, Marion discovers she can hear through a ventilation grille the conversations next door between a therapist and his clients. Initially disinterested in eavesdropping, Marion hears the voice of a young woman (Mia Farrow) whose sobs of grief and thoughts about the futility of life grip Marion to such an extent that it sends her on an intense journey of self-discovery in which she confronts misapprehensions about her life and those around her. Marion gradually realizes that her insistent 'life of the mind' has robbed her of more satisfying and fulfilling pursuits such as friendships and family. Gena Rowlands' performance as Marion is an absolute tour de force, and the rest of the cast is equally stunning, especially Sandy Dennis, Blythe Danner, Philip Bosco, Ian Holm, Gene Hackman and John Houseman (in his final role). Allen's dialogue thrusts Rowland's character into some incredibly awkward and confronting situations and the talented actress allows herself to be buffeted by it all, unflinchingly taking us along for the ride towards self-discovery and eventual inner peace. Despite the heartache, her journey is a worthwhile one and, though it does not end bouyantly, we do get the satisfaction of knowing that things in Marion's life will eventually change for the better and that revelation has not arrived too late. Another Woman is a rarely seen and under appreciated gem that will weave its magic on willing viewers.