MANAGEMENT

STARRING: Steve Zahn, Jennifer Aniston, Woody Harrelson, Margo Martindale, James Hiroyuki Liao and Fred Ward

WRITTEN BY: Stephen Belber

DIRECTED BY: Stephen Belber

Rated: R
Genre: Romantic Comedy
Release Date: 15 May 2009

If you've seen the cover for Management, you may have thought to yourself, 'Wow, Steve Zahn looks a bit like a puppy dog.' If you did, you were right. He is a puppy with a real bad case of puppy love for Jennifer Aniston's character, Sue.

Zahn plays Mike who is kind of a slacker slash loaner slash something else. He never really did grow up but we love him nonetheless.

He works as a night-time manager at his parent's hotel called The Kingman Inn, in Kingman Arizona. His life is real blah, to say the least.

Then along comes Sue. She's an uptight art saleswoman from back east. She's in town for two nights selling some hotel paintings and happens to be staying at The Kingman Inn.

Mike is instantly smitten for her and she is almost repulsed by his unique awkwardness. I won't spoil for you how they meet and how funny it is, because if you haven't seen the trailers (like I hadn't) then it will be a nice little treat for you.

I don't know whether to credit the actors or the writer/director (Stephen Belber) for this brilliant scene; they probably all deserve the credit. It was shot so well and has so much to it for the small amount of dialogue that's used.

Eventually, Mike grows on Sue just a tad and she leaves to head back east. Mike thinks there was a way bigger connection than there actually was and acts on it. He takes all his money and buys a one way ticket across the country to go and surprise her at work.

Sue is not pleased but does mildly see this as a sweet gesture and agrees to spend a little time with him. Once she discovers he only had enough cash for a one way ticket, she buys him a ticket back home and tells him it's just not going to work out between the two of them.

He learns that she has quit her job and moved to Washington to help her ex-boyfriend, who is now her new boyfriend again, who would still technically be considered an old boyfriend, right? Anyway, to help him with his yogurt business.

Mike realizes that he may lose her forever and sells everything he has and moves to Washington. Once there, he has no idea how to contact her or find her and is homeless and jobless.

He meets Al, (James Hiroyuki Liao), who next to Mike was the funniest character in the movie. Al works in a Chinese-American restaurant that his parents run and offers Mike a job and a place to stay. Mike agrees and moves into their basement.

Together, they set out on a quest to get Sue back for Mike. Al is the ultimate wing man and is hilarious. I'm sure we can expect to see this young actor in a lot more films.

They eventually track Sue and her boyfriend down and plenty of funny shenanigans are had. Woody Harrelson plays the boyfriend who is often referred to as, 'an ex punk'. Needless to say, as always Woody adds a nice mix into the comedic elements of this film.

But the film isn't just a comedy. It's filled with several dramatic and touching moments that really hit you in the gut. This isn't your typical romantic comedy by any means. There are no clich&eacute;s here and the movie isn't predictable.

In addition to a lot of laughs, there are great performances from every actor on screen. One thing that makes it so great is how much you get out of short scenes. Fred Ward and Margo Martindale aren't in the film for very long at all, but you feel like you really get to know them because their performances as Mike's parents are so believable and enjoyable.

I especially loved the scene between Mike and his father involving a necklace. It's such a simple scene and with other actors would have been a lot less.

Aniston may make a lot of the same kinds of movies but she never is the same character in her films. Here she is uptight but caring and has a soft side that only Mike can seem to bring out in her.

Zahn definitely has a bigger part in the movie. We follow him through the entire film and I think this is probably his best performance. There is a scene towards the end of the film where he really breaks down and we see that he's a lot more than just the funny guy. Steve Zahn can play both sides of the coin, being dramatic and hilarious every bit as good as Robin Williams.

If you want to watch a romantic comedy that most of us can relate to, will surely bring a smile to your face and a tear to your cheek, then Management is that film.

Stephen Bebler did a knock out job for this being his first major film. It was beautifully written, hysterical at times and heart-warming at others. More films of this genre should take a few notes from what he's done here.