Supremely subversive dialogue, absurd characters, outrageous situations, a plot driven by various combinations of greed, sex, and ambition...a Billy Wilder comedy!  James Cagney is outstanding as C.R. MacNamara, who, at the height of the Cold War, is the frustrated head of the Coca Cola company in West Berlin in 1961, just before the erection of the Wall.  His attempts to pursue an affair with his knockout German secretary are interrupted when the boss in Atlanta 'asks' if MacNamara and his wife (Arlene Francis) wouldn't mind chaperoning his delicate flower of a teenage daughter (Pamela Tiffin), named Scarlett (what else?), during her visit to Berlin.  Of course, upon her arrival the 'delicate flower' turns out to be a boy crazy bubble-head in search of a good time (in her southern drawl, Scarlett declares "I heard that Berlin is the hottest spot in the world right now!").  Having temporarily gone missing, Scarlett reappears with her new husband, Otto Ludwig Piffl (Horst Buchholz), who just happens to be a beatnik-style, party line-spouting Communist from East Berlin (when MacNamara asks Scarlett how in the world she could possibly have married someone associated with slogans like 'Yankee go Home', she naturally responds "...why, everybody in my family hates yankees.").  Not to worry; MacNamara has two days before Scarlett's parents are scheduled to arrive in Berlin!  As MacNamara scrambles, first to erase the marrige, then to re-instate the marriage, then to transform Otto into a respectable capitalist husband, Wilder accelorates the pace of his film, like a mad countdown to its climax: Three, Two, One...!

  As a reporter in 1920s Vienna and Berlin, the young Billy Wilder had an unvarnished view of the less flattering side of human nature, a view that informed all of his work, both comedies and dramas.  At a time when Fascist and Communist thugs were literally battling in the streets of Vienna and Berlin, Wilder developed a very jaded outlook when it came to politics (in his eyes, ideology was merely another means for humans to practice the timeless pursuit of power, wealth, and sex - and who are we to say otherwise?!).  As such, no character, no institution, and no ideology emerges unscathed from 'One, Two, Three.'  Americans, Russians, Germans; the family, private industry, government; Capitalism, Communism; it was all fodder for Wilder's mill and what he produced was gold.  PVW