Before Arnold Schwarzenegger created a secret family out of wedlock, before director John McTiernan was smothered by legal woes and before Jesse Ventura donned a tinfoil hat, there was "Predator." A tough-as-nails action epic, this little flick from 1987 added to Schwarzenegger's repertoire as the go-to guy for action flicks at the time and kicked open the door for McTiernan who would go on to direct other classics such as Die Hard, The Hunt for Red October and Last Action Hero (?).

A group of mercenaries led by Dutch (Schwarzenegger) are dumped in the Central American jungle on what they believe to be a rescue mission. Almost immediately upon their arrival, it appears something is wrong. Dead bodies -- apparently skinned alive -- are dangling from the trees and all the while, Jesse Ventura won't shut up. It seems there is a much more dangerous enemy lurking in the foliage, one which can mimic its enemies and blend into the scenery much like a chameleon. This enemy is not of this planet, means serious business and is absolutely famished. This, of course, means it's "Game on!" for Arnold and the Predator.

"Predator" is essentially the perfect action flick. While latter day efforts like "Rollerball" may indicate otherwise, McTiernan is (or was) a genuine master of his craft. The film is perfectly paced, the effects are solid (if admittedly bit dated by now) and not overpowering and the characters are brought to life by larger than life personalities. Schwarzenegger and Ventura are joined by the likes of Carl Weathers, Bill Duke, Sonny Landham and Shane Black. Black, who wrote the script (as well as another action classic from the same year, "Lethal Weapon") brings the characters to life with so much testosterone it oozes out of the screen. Not in a gross way, but in the sort of way that makes you feel like you are hanging out with a group of good ol' boys, shooting the breeze and laughing at one inane joke after the other ("See, 'cause of the echo..."). That is, until carnage ensues and the gang drops off one by one. You'll be laughing one minute and be perched on the edge of your seat the next. Brilliant.

While not quite in the same league as, say, Ridley Scott's "Alien," "Predator" delivers the goods in spades. It has a fresh and original concept, a great cast and enough thrills to make it worth watching again and again. McTiernan's Hollywood debut boasts a significant amount of replay value, something which the dreadful "Alien Vs. Predator" flicks lacked and which most modern films of its ilk lack as well. So grab the DVD/Blu-Ray/VHS/Laserdisc/Hologram/Brain-implant, get to da choppah! and get ready for a good time.