SPOILERS FOLLOW

For years, I resisted and criticized this 1951 film of Charles Dickens' "A Christmas Carol."  In my opinion, the movie was a vastly overrated piece of fluff from another era.  I've been watching this film particularly closely this holiday season, and my opinion is definitely changing.  Starring Alastair Sim, Mervyn Johns, and Hermione Baddeley, this is a very creative adaptation.

The screenplay by Noel Langley(who handled the same duties in a co-writing capacity with Florence Ryerson and Edgar Allan Woolf for "The Wizard of Oz") is extremely faithful to Charles Dickens while throwing in audacious bursts of originality.  For instance, (SPOILER) I love the expanded roles for both Fezziwig and Jacob Marley.  This is both logical from a storytelling point of view, and a realistic expansion for the characters considering their respective significant impacts on Scrooge's life.

Mr. Sim offers a surprisingly understated performance as Ebenezer Scrooge, doing as much with body language as with declarations.  Look at his hand subtly shake with anger and frazzled nerves as he dismisses his nephew Fred from his office.  He intuits that Scrooge may not only be angered by the nephew's invitation, but that it threatens to uncover repressed emotions.

Mervyn Johns walks a fine line to give a very credible performance as Bob Cratchit.  He is ultimately extremely good, reading mostly oppposite Sim and Hermione Baddeley, although the ingenious screenplay somewhat expands his role as well.  As solid as the performances are, the expanded screenplay truly vaults this film into the masterpiece category.  I'll give few details truly away in this review, but the screenplay may even represent an improvement over Dickens' plotting for this novel.

In closing, I'll say that I grew up adoring the 1984 George C. Scott portrayal of Scrooge, and I still do.  But, my perspective is permanently changing as it relates to this acclaimed 1951 film.  I regard the two films now collectively as being equally definitive, their respective Scrooges products of twin masters who each inherently understand the character.  This movie was and is legendary because every ounce of its runtime expresses creativity at a very high level.  Highly recommended.