I saw T3 on it's opening day here in Australia with a lot of high hopes and thoughts. From the haunting music playing over the opening titles (though I missed the T2 theme)really set up a good mood. Then a little later watching a bottle fall into a sea of skulls to rise up into the future with breathtaking and destructive awe of the Machines in action!!! It really begins with great scope and determination to be another step in the Terminator series,only settling down a briefly to introduce our four main chracters. From then onwards the movie pretty much doesn't stop and leads into an amazing truck/car chase scene with great effects and sound. Seeing Arnie 'back' is a highlight, his role here is his best since T2 which was 12 yrs ago. He suits the role and gets into the character well. Some of the dialogue from Nick,Arnie and Clair was great within the movie with Arnie being serious and a more 'inhuman' machine which contrasts the T2 Arnie. After some awesome action sequences the movie delves into the process of turning nasty...with the iminant doom of Judgement Day only hours away and the Terminator hinting at what he just accomplished before beging reprogrammed and sent back...with a nice bell sound in the music as he says it.Nice stuff. This all leads to a finale that is just amazing and brilliant with some more terrific standoffs between Arnie's Machine and Loken's TX...and skynet taking control! After some great moments it takes us to somewhere humanity dreads and hopes never becomes reality...the end of the world as we know it. Beltrami's music is beautiful, with the haunting tunes(which I found similar to a BBC Dr Who episode titled "Terror of the Zygons", as John and Kate enter the fall out shelter command room,which leads into a lovely yet sad theme as the missiles destroy our world and closes on a skull of the Terminator and his red light dimming to bring us to a closure with the great Terminator theme on the credits(reworked). It truely is a great movie and was a highlight and new approach to a great series. I love Jim Cameron's first two(and his other films, especially Titanic!) and now Mostow's adds another dimension to it...not as creative in certain ways and sinister as T2, but more a solem and eerie film with action in it. A great movie, which I recommend and probably 2003's top film so far. A wonderful job and it's nice to see Terminator and Arnie back! Can't wait for the DVD!!!