This unusual film has gotten so very little press--at least where I live--that if I wasn't a slave to Amazon.com, I wouldn't even have known it existed.

First, before anything else, this is not a film for kids or for those who find explicit, adult content offensive. It is unrated because the sex is real, not acting. Hence why edgy director, Michael Winterbottom, had to cast unknowns as Matt and Lisa, the lead characters.

Second, if you enjoy really good alternative rock music (and don't mind the adult content) you will love this film. With delicious live performances seen nowhere else from bands like The Dandy Warhols, Black Rebel Motorcycle Club, and Primal Scream, the music is damned good.

The premise of this film is a love story. Unlike 9 1/2 Weeks before it, 9 Songs is the everyman/everywoman unfolding of a romantic relationship, the stages it goes through, the way it ends, set against the backdrop of 9 live concerts attended by the couple.

The story's core, revealed by Matt, who is a scientist studying Antarctica, is that of what a relationship feels like from the inside out. While we see bold, stark glimpses of this forbidding continent, we hear Matt telling us that the wide open, endless ice of Antarctica inspires both claustrophobia and agoraphobia simultaneously, "like being in bed with someone else." That comment struck me like a bucket of ice water with it's unrelenting truth.

It has been suggested that Winterbottom is using sex as a storytelling device. This is true, but not the whole truth. Men and women will never change and though the explicit scenes may shock you, it is the man-woman dynamic at the heart of this film. The ways we communicate, or don't. The ways in which we meet. The manner that we use to walk away.

You can literally feel Lisa's sense of being trapped by the increasing intimacy--and accompanying responsibility of not willfully hurting her lover--when in a drug-induced mania, she tells Matt that sometimes when he kisses her, she wants to bite his lip hard, to draw blood. You can see what these words mean by his reaction. . .and his continued reactions to her increasing level of cruelty toward him. Petty, childishly making fun of him when least appropriate.

This is certainly not a film for everyone. However, if you enjoy indie films, edgy, dark and challenging concepts, 9 Songs will impress you. And, whether you like it or not, it will make you think about relationships; how they are created and how they are disassembled.

For me, I was stunned to silence by the elegance of the unpolished look at "love," warts and all.