When I found out that this was considered an action movie, I was a little iffy on weather or not to see it. However, I did, and I'm very glad I decided to--this is an AWESOME movie!! All the fans of it say it over and over: this movie has EVERYTHING. Action, romance, passion, depth...a hot and sexy male lead... Indeed, Brandon Lee's preformance throughout the film was exceedingly worthy, and it's almost painful to relfect on how it was on the very set of this fabulous movie that his life ended. [*sniffle* I would have been a die-hard fan of his if I had watched any of his movies while he was alive.] Anyway, the movie's feel is deliciously dark and it gives a real feel for the whole story. Top Dollar makes for a pretty good bad guy, too, and I actually LIKED Sarah, unlike most of her "type" of characters. Also worthy of mention is the soundtrack, which went with the movie nicely.
Everything in this movie really gets felt out...the city slumness of the location, the urban desperation, Eric's pain...it all comes together nicely. The only scene that bothered me was the one where Eric falls out of the window, but they DID have to use computers to do that one since he was dead by then... Do NOT turn this movie off if you don't get into it as soon as it starts. Brandon gets it together as soon as he starts having the flashbacks and the plot thickens from then on.
I haven't seen the DVD so I have no idea if the extra features blew or were actually good. The VHS I saw had a pretty eeeh delated scenes section, and it also had what the makers tooted as the last on-camera interview with Brandon Lee. This is extremly enjoyable for those who can just oogle at him, which is what I did. It's not an incredbily in-depth thing, but he comes off nicely, and it's very novel to see him dressed in something other than black leather, AND without the make up. (*dreamy sigh*)
In short, you DO want to see this. The flim has been critized for excessive violence, but, hey, how are you supposed to get the vengence concept across? Furthermore, I personally don't think it was all that bad. While I can think of lots of movies that ODed on the gore front (Interview with the Vampire comes to mind), The Crow doesn't cross that line. I do regret that it's more famous because of Brandon's death any for its merit, but that is to be expected. Once you see the film, you'll understand it *does* have merit.
And as to weather the bird is a raven or a Crow--that's being just a bit picky, and how many people actually know the difference these days?