The movie was created and directed by special effects effort Stan Winston, so that should already tell you that you're in for a good ride. The monster was stylish and effective, not to mention pretty horrific when they first expose the thing in full view. Yet i have to say- it did in some ways resemble the creatures out of the Alien movies, in which Winston also did effects for. But no matter, because i have to say this easily tops the alien creatures. Due to the wicked and evil personality that the monster eluminates, including the dreadful and dangerous atmosphere that is given off, the viewer will just be entertained by its mere presence on the screen. The plot is simple, however creative in details...

After some city kids accidentally kill the son of a secluded farmer, Ed Harley, he puts his faith in a local legend, known as Pumpkinhead. the legend says that anyone wronged can obtain revenge by summoning this demon to murder the ones responsible. After locating the old witch of the woods, he aquires the materials she demands to perform the blood ritual and unleash the walking vengeance. But all this comes at a terrible price, Ed soon finds out, and he realizes what he's done has not only hurt him and the other innocents around him, but damned his soul for all eternity. Hoping for some redemption, he sets off to stop the evil that is ruthlessly slaughtering the teens and coming closer to transforming into Ed's likeness...

A great horror film that presents some scary ideas and pop-out scenes,i believe this is at the least a movie you must say you have watched in your lifetime. The low grade acting from the teens striving to escape from the monster is greatly ignored compared to Lance Henricksen's applauding performance as the grieving Ed Harley, who shows that the loss of his son really impacts him more than his tough shelled exterior gives off. This really dives deep into some of the hidden fears of the imagination and gets a message across (greater than i've ever seen in most horror movies) that revenge can't satisfy the loss of loved ones. My advice is to see this movie if you have'nt and keep an open mind about the (relative) realness of the situation at hand.