This edition of "One-Eyed Jacks," by Echo-Bridge Entertainment, appears in general video quality pretty much identical, if not entirely identical, to the edition released by Brentwood Home Video "Exclusively Distributed by BCI Eclipse LLC" as part of a four-video collection entitled "Legends of the West." One difference is that this Echo-Bridge edition gives more vidoo chapter options but also, unforgiveably, starts the movie a few notes into Friedhoffer's magnifican musical score, which is a bit like starting Beethoven's Fifth Symphony a few notes in.  There is some color washout in a scene early on with Brando, Malden,etc.ins ide the bank, but otherwise, except for video purists, it is certainly much better than not having this masteriece at all.  If you can find the "Legends of the West" collection (which also includes "The Sundowners", set in Australia, with Robert Mitchum; "The Big Trees," with Kirk Douglas; and "Vengeance Valley," with Burt Lancast, if things like cutting off the first notes of a magnificanet score drive you nuts, you'd be better off with the "Legends of the West" collection if you find it.  Surely "One-Eyed Jacks" deserves a restoration and since it is reportedly Martin Scorsese's favorite western, perhaps one day he might shell out the fortune to restore this classic.  However, other than annoyingly cutting off the first notes of the score, this appears to contain the movie though with the aforementioned color washout in the bank scene.  It is a truly magnificent movie with awesome performances by Brandon, Malden, Ben Johnson, Slim Pickens, Karty Jurado, Pina Pellecer, and all the rest.  If you like Brando in this, be sure to look him up in "The Appaloosa," which, to my knowledge, is the only other western featuring him as the protagonist.  (He is a villain in "The Missouri Breaks" with Jack Nicholson as the ptortagonist.)  For Karl Malden doing another great villain perfromance in a western, don't miss "Nevada Smith" with Steve McQueen, Brian Keith, Martin Landau as a heavy, and Susanne Pleshette.