This is a truly great & magnificent historical film epic noted mainly for its magnificent sets,costumes,cinematography & for being heavily criticised (especially in USA) for the performances of most of its actors & its overall sluggish plot. The film was an ENORMOUS FLOP in USA (Paramount's biggest flop of 1964 and one of their biggest flops ever) but a BIG SUCCESS in EUROPE (especially U.K. as the Rank Organisation of Great Britain had a substantial financial investment in the movie) & other parts of the world. It ruined its producer's (Samuel Bronston) Spanish film empire mainly due to the disastrous USA release (as expensive movie epics made in 1960's made most of their profits in USA market and most of Bronston's financial backers were from USA). It has been dubbed the film that caused the fall of the roman epic (though the 1963 Cleopatra with Liz Taylor also has to wear some of the blame for this).

Trying to reproduce another huge Ben Hur-style mega hit producer Samuel Bronston wanted Charlton Heston to reteam with Sophia Loren (as 3 years earlier EL CID had been a HUGE hit) but Heston, initially having agreed to do the film, eventually opted out even while the film's forum sets had just started construction (presumably because Heston DID NOT WANT TO MAKE ANOTHER Ben Hur. There's also the apparent fact that Sophia Loren & Charlton Heston privately hated each other whilst working on EL CID). Heston liked the plot of "55 Days at Peking" better & upon learning that Sophia Loren would NOT be his leading lady in the Peking film quickly opted for "55 Days at Peking". Bronston, ever so willing to accomodate "EL CID/BEN HUR" Heston as his favourite film star & hopefully achieve the same blockbuster success as BEN HUR & EL CID had been with this Peking film immediately ordered the preliminary work for the forum set for "Fall" to be torn down and work to begin on the Peking city set for "55 Days at Peking" to replace it.

Kirk Douglas (of "Spartacus" fame) was reportedly next asked to do the Livius role after Heston's refusal (for $1.5 million USA being the equivalent of $7 million USA now according to Kirk Douglas in his book "The Ragman's Son) but declined the role (apparently because he didn't like the script & the character of Livius). Even though Douglas had fired director Anthony Mann from his "Spartacus" film 3 years earlier Kirk Douglas and Anthony Mann were still friendly & he later appeared in Mann's next film "The Heroes of Telemark" (1965) with Richard Harris (who coincidentally was fired from "Fall" by director Anthony Mann and later played emperor Marcus Aurelius in "Gladiator"). So next was Stephen Boyd (again the Ben Hur influence as Boyd had played the villain Messala in Ben Hur) was hired as the male lead actor (apparently because he fitted the costumes and had some experience in roman epics--Ben Hur & the original 1961 British based version of "Cleopatra" where he was cast as Marc Anthony opposite Liz Taylor's Cleopatra)

The original plan was for Heston & Loren to each receive $750,000 for their roles (the same as in EL CID). But Stephen Boyd worked cheaper at $500,000 per film than Heston did at $750,000 per film. Thus Sophia Loren's salary suddenly increased from $750,000 to $1 million (Loren was the second actress after Liz Taylor in 1963's Cleopatra to get a $1 million fee) and she also got top billing over Boyd in this film. Boyd appears to be  the loser here as Sophia received a $1 million (USA) total fee being twice as much as Stephen Boyd's fee. Which is the main reason she did the role as $USA 1 million in 1963 was the equivalent of approx. $USA 10 million now and she could brag that she was the SECOND ACTRESS (after Liz Taylor) TO BE PAID A MILLION DOLLAR fee for a film. Boyd most probably took the lower salary & second billing to Sophia Loren as he'd scored a coup by managing to replace Charlton Heston as the lead male star in a roman epic instead of him doing another supporting character to Heston (like Messala in Ben Hur). Also his previous film (the MGM musical "Jumbo" with Doris Day) was a flop. Making another film like the recent, hugely successful Ben Hur must have seemed like a good idea at the time. Also Bronston's recent 1961 "King of Kings" epic for MGM (another roman-themed biblical epic & MGM's semi-sequel to Ben Hur) had been a reasonable box office success so there was every reason to believe in 1963, when "FALL" was filmed, that another roman epic that would be "bigger than Ben Hur" would be extremely successful. Interestingly Stephen Boyd was originally cast as Marc Anthony opposite Liz Taylor's Cleopatra (with Peter Finch as Julius Caesar) in the first version of "Cleopatra" filmed in London in 1961 but this production was abandoned due to Liz Taylor's near terminal illness in 1961. So Boyd WAS HIGHLY REGARDED as a leading actor at the time.

Drawing heavily upon Ben Hur meant a chariot race & Fall has an exciting one in a forrest (with Boyd changing roles from Ben Hur bad guy to the good guy charioteer this time). There's also the Ben Hur boyhood friends becoming adult enemies plot influence and the thinly veiled suggestion that Livius and Commodus have had some sort of sexual activity between them previously as they drink from each other's wine skins with wine spurting into each other's mouth from the wine skins (as with Ben Hur & Messala drinking a welcome toast to each other from each other's wine cup). Also Fall was filmed in the same 70mm format (Camera 65/Ultra Panavision) as Ben Hur. Bronston's other epics were all filmed in 35mm Super Technirama and then blown up to 70mm---only The Fall of the Roman Empire was actually filmed in 70mm. As well, the stunts and action scenes were mostly directed by Yakima Canutt of Ben Hur chariot race fame but Andrew Marton, also of Ben Hur chariot race fame, was called in late in the production to direct the barbarians in the forest battle sequence near the film's beginning.

Alas, Fall was made 3 to 4 years too late (as historical epics were out of vogue in 1964 & thereafter until Gladiator in 2000) but had it been made a year after Ben Hur in 1960 it may well have succeeded. Some people claim that Liz Taylor's Cleopatra a year earlier in 1963 ruined the market for historical epics with its hugely overblown advertising campaign (absolutely necessary as Cleopatra's budget had doubled, then tripled, then quadrupled and is STILL the MOST EXPENSIVE MOVIE EVER MADE after adjusting for inflation) and its extremely long & tedious 4 hour plus running time ruining any appreciation of its more spectacular sequences. Thus "Fall" the following year (1964) was an obvious target (mainly by USA critics) for allegations of deja vu & the familiar old style Roman epic plot criticisms (eg. huge cast of thousands in gigantic sets, another mad emperor, everybody spotlessly attired in the latest ancient roman fashions whilst living in seemingly newly-built houses and roaming around brand-spanking new temples & palaces with no hint of a "lived-in" look and stars fighting each other with not a hair out of place even in battle scenes). Movie audiences in 1963/64 were much more receptive to James Bond-type spy films, lavish musicals like My Fair Lady & Mary Poppins plus zany English pop groups like the Beatles nonsense style films (Hard Day's Night & Help) as well as english comedies (like The Pink Panther series with Peter Sellers) & english culture (Tom Jones etc). Also the so-called "sexual revolution" began about 1963 onwards. A total change of style in audience appreciation seemed to occur in 1963-1964.

However where Fall differs from Ben Hur is in its secular (ie. non-religious) plot, its magnificent sets & costumes (outdoing any of its predecessors including Ben Hur--apart from the Ben Hur chariot race sequence which is still truly magnificent--these sets were all actual 3 dimensional buildings with roofs which allowed better & more intricate camera angles--not just facades or frontages with scaffolding at the back) and its extensive use of spectacular outdoor locations (much more so than Ben Hur) such as the forests/snow country sequences near the film's beginning & the desert battle of the 4 armies sequence in the middle of the film (this sequence used more than 10,000 extras portraying the soldiers--most of them from General Franco's Spanish army). Integrating his characters into actual very spectacular locations was one of the main features of director Anthony Mann's style.

Fall has an interesting plot for some viewers that's historically accurate to a point & then diverges into a Hollywood "invent & destroy" scripting technique just as Gladiator (and countless other Hollywood-style epics such as "The Egyptian") did. This is where fictional characters are interwoven with historical characters  (to "heighten" the drama) & history is "interpreted" (i.e. distorted)  but by film's end these fictional characters are either killed off or fade into the background so as not to disturb historical fact too much. No-one can absolutely say that people like these fictional characters did not exist but also there is no historical evidence to prove their existence. Thus fictional characters are invented (to heighten the drama) and then eventually removed or fade into the background. Fall's plot moves gracefully through its storyline (unlike  Gladiator's more rapid plot development) given that the era in which it was made (late 1950's to mid 1960's) called for an "epic" running time (3 hours plus) to match its epic size. This is probably why Gladiator is much more popular with younger audiences. Some people (usually younger viewers) think Fall far too slow & others (usually older viewers) appreciate the gradual pace of its story. Some people criticise the sudden action set pieces (eg. the chariot race) interrupting the intellectual aspects of the plot while others criticise the lack of enough action sequences and too much talk. As someone has said "the curate's egg", good in parts. In trying to please everybody the film-makers may have pleased far fewer viewers than expected.

Most if not all Hollywood made or financed epics are historically inaccurate & have many invented scenes as in the 1960 version of "Spartacus" where the last 30 minutes was a scriptwriter's invention (the real Spartacus is believed to have died during the final battle so there was probably no "I am Spartacus" defiance from his surviving troops or fight to the death/crucifixion outside the gates of Rome for Spartacus & Antoninus (played by Kirk Douglas & Tony Curtis respectively). Fall also has a few historical inaccuracies (as does Gladiator which seemed to borrow most of these historical inaccuracies from Fall's plot) of which the final duel to the death is the most blatant inaccuracy. However sometimes these scenes are so exciting and indeed moving one wishes that this is the way history should have been. Most people are still moved by the "I am Spartacus" defiance of  Spartacus's troops against the Romans and Spartacus dying on the cross---neither of which actually happened in reality.  Sometimes it is the feel & spirit of the era depicted that is more important than strict historical accuracy. These are extremely expensive films to produce so must appeal to a huge general audience to recoup their costs. Going for total historical accuracy over an exciting, interesting plot may only gain you an audience of history professors & their students rather than a huge, general audience. However GROSS breaches of historical accuracy or GROSS diversions from the source material (as the elimination of the gods in "Troy") are very annoying.

By the way the forum set in this film which was the biggest of several sets built for the film (the main Forum set was demolished soon after filming even though some remaining parts of other sets were used in "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum" a year later in 1964---these remaining parts of other smaller sets were apparently muddied up to look lived-in) still holds the record for the biggest "purpose-built" exterior film set. The forum set was not used for any other films (like "AD", "Augustus" or "Rome") and was demolished soon after filming. Apparently producer Samuel Bronston did not want any future, lesser production to use his magnificent forum set so he unwisely had it demolished. Imagine the revenue to be derived even today from such sets in a movie theme park. The sets for the city of Troy in 2004's "Troy" (which are bigger in area than FALL's forum set) embellished an existing 14th century fortress in Malta so were not "purpose-built" (i.e. built from scratch especially for the production).

A sadly underrated & magnificent achievement in historical film epics & everyone involved with the film should feel justly proud of their involvement with this film and the excellence of their achievement. This film is much more appreciated now than when it was first released.

Finally, where is the USA DVD version of this film & El Cid? They would both be simply magnificent in either blueray or high definition disc versions. I am sure that tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of eager film fans (rather than just a few die-hard fans of either film) would buy such a high quality DVD.

POST SCRIPT: It's now 2012 and there are blue ray versions of this film (using the same Weinsten dvd version and exactly the same extras including specially made documentaries as in the Weinstein dvd version) available in Germany, France, Spain and Great Britain. ALL of these versions HAVE STILL OMITTED the "Trilemma" 90 second sequence which IS AVAILABLE to the Weinstein organization and could easily be inserted into the current version. The Weinstein organization have still not released a blue ray version of this film in USA. Maybe the idea of releasing special films in special releases under the name of their mother Miriam has not turned out exactly as expected but I think the Weinstein organization owes it to their loyal fan base (who actually pay money to buy hese products and fully appreciate the Weinstein organisation making these films available again on dvd) to at least release a version of this film with  THE  MISSING  "Trilemma"  90 second sequence INCLUDED & hopefully a blue ray version. After all they've licensed their version of this film for blue ray release in Germany, France, Spain & Great Britain so its not as if the concept is unknown to them.
If they could also interview Sophia Loren, Christopher Plummer and Omar Sharif (the last surviving actors in this film--once they pass away it's a VITAL OPPORTUNITY MISSED) about their insights into this film that would be a huge bonus and an excellent selling point for a blue ray release (along with the "Trilemma" sequence).  Any other missing scenes could also be included as just a special section of "missing scenes" & would add enough extras to justify another purchase of this film in the blue ray format. I'm sure it would be successful as the "ultimate edition". I'm also sure that if they did at least this much their mother Miriam would be truly proud of them. However if they've gone cold on the idea of releasing these films themselves maybe they could sell the rights to Time Warner who have made an absolutely excellent job of enhancing Bronston's "King of Kings" on blue ray disc into a film that looks like it was made this year (and not 50 years ago). The same holds true for Time /Warner's release of the ultimate edition of "Ben Hur" in blue ray with a frame by frame enhancement of the original film negative in it's original format and screen ratio (Camera 65/Ultra Panavision in 2.75:1 ratio and not 2.35:1). Again it looks like a new film and not one made 55 years ago.