I wont bother going into details about the film itself. If by chance you haven't already seen Dances With Wolves or haven't at least heard about it then there are already hundreds, if not thousands, of reviews already written that go into detail about the film itself. At this point I really dont think I can significantly add to whats already been said about this film. Ill simply say that it was, and still is, one of my all time favorite films.

I am writing this review urging people to buy the 20th Anniversary Blu-Ray Edition for one reason and one reason only, the soundtrack. This is not to say that the soundtrack is the only worthy upgrade in this version, quite the contrary as I think this version is outstanding in every possible way (unlike the previous releases). Its simply because its worth upgrading to just for the soundtrack alone. Its hands down one of the best soundtracks I have ever heard and until you have heard it in all its glory on Blu_Ray....well your really missing out as this is one of those rare films where the soundtrack takes the film to a completely new level and this Blu-Ray version is so superior to the previous releases that its really like hearing it again for the very first time.

I have been a HUGE fan of this score since I first heard it. In fact, its pretty much the only thing I listen to when I go storm chasing every year. I just play it again and again and again and again and I have been doing this since I first started chasing over 10 years ago. I just never get sick of it and its really become one of the staples to my entire trip. The people I chase with actually make jokes over the radio. Statements like "Oh no, he is playing it again" followed by laughter are extremely common.

Anyways this release certainly doesn't disappoint in this regard. The 7.1 DTS-HD master, running roughly over 4600kbs, is absolutely breathtaking. Actually breathtaking doesn't even properly describe just how stunning it is. Its really futile even trying to put it into words. I purchased a new audio system from ADA last year and I have never heard my set-up sound this good. I literally sat in awe for the first 30 minutes of the film. It really must be heard to be believed.

Bottom line - There are a lot of reasons to buy this Blu-Ray but for me one reason stuck out far above the others, the score. If your a fan of this film and even remotely enjoyed the score then you should be ordering this as soon as humanely possible. If you haven't seen this film and are a fan of quality scores then your missing out on one of the most iconic American scores ever produced and its never sounded better than it does on the 20th Anniversary Blu-Ray edition. Its like your standing right in the middle of the orchestra. This is really what hi-def is all about.

5 stars