'Love and Basketball' is a low-budget African-American romance film that delivers and in a big way! Quincy (Omar Epps) and Monica (Sanaa Lathan) develop a friendship that transcends from adolescence to college and adulthood. Remarkably, they never seem to appreciate how much they love each other until situations present itself that threatens to tear them apart. I am only going to give two examples, so I will not spoil the film (if you haven't seen it yet):

Well as the title suggests they both have a great love for basketball and you are taken on a journey down a very real road of what it is like to become a male and a female basketball star. I think as a male, it is more obvious in sports with the tokens and advantages but for females you might have to choose between playing in Europe or working at Sears. Remember this film is supposedly right before the WNBA. Quincy almost loses Monica, after expressing his great love for her during his final years as a Senior in high school. Surprisingly, she ends up going to the same college as him via basketball scholarship -- just barely. Monica's temper almost ruins everything!

Then Quincy moves on with his life playing professional basketball with the Lakers, and Monica decides after being in the European Women's Basketball Leagues she is ready to come back to Los Angeles, her home. She comes at a time when Quincy is fighting a basketball injury, and just when you think she may have won his heart --- noda!

I love the twists in this movie. Please rewind or skip back playing the last few minutes of the film or you might come to the wrong conclusion which would ruin the whole film. Please notice what Monica is wearing. And what Quincy mumbles out of his mouth.

You have to watch the entire film to get it. Or else you will be stumped which makes you have to watch the film. No cheating here! I love this romance story. It could have had less language or profanity. That was totally unnessary in this movie. But beyond all this, it is the very best African-American Romance Drama of the past 25 years. Don't let the simplicity of it being a low-budget film fool you into believing it can't hang!