After seeing over 25 complete  live Rings ... and in preparation for a lecture series in July ... I spent the first part of the Memorial Day weekend with Das Rheingold in this new DVD BluRay production.  I had planned to view the entire Cycle but by some odd quirk in merchandising, Die Valkyrie is only available through a separate source and did not arrive in time.

At heart I am a purist but open to intelligent reworkings of opera.  The recent releases of 'Lohengrin' and 'Ariadne ...'  are two GREAT productions which are examples of how new meaning and insights can be brought into old masterpieces.

Right off I must acknowledge that this RING production portends to have a great deal of intelligent thought behind it as evidenced by the Prelude ... mostly to the delight of the audience.  It tries to be faithful to Wagner and adds some insightful, complimentary ideas - unlike the Freyer Ring in LA which has less to do with Wagner and more with the designer's own ego in direct contravention of the original work!  There are a lot of interesting concepts introduced in this Rhinegold which provide great scenic beauty and interest.  However, having said that, when one tampers with Wagner's stage directions and introduces different and foreign elements in staging and concept, one is often left FAR OUT in left field trying to overcome the vagaries caused by changing the original ideas.  Case in point, the giants!  Great scenic effect but the automation denies any personal interface and absolutely leaves the designer in the quandary of how to get the gold and dead Fasolt off the stage!  In this production, with less than satisfactory answers!

Perhaps the biggest disappointment was the Finale after so many vivid and interesting visual effects throughout the prior two plus hours !  It just simply did not summon up the necessary impact - altho' the encircling of the Gods within Valhalla was a nice touch!

In all cases the singers and orchestra were of fine caliber - worthy of at least one viewing.  Similarly, in almost all cases the soloists and musicians did not offer 'definitive' performances.  I found myself frequently harking back to Solti's CD which for me still remains the BEST Ring ever - so far!  This production is close - but certainly gets 'NO Cigar !"  And as for the LA Ring ...  I have NO desire to see such an mediocre, abortive attempt at innovation!

I enjoyed this Ring but would advise that having seen it once and with a necessary revisit on tap - I have done with this latest attempt to improve on Wagner.  See it vividly by all means in BluRay and listen to it in 7-channel Surround Sound ...  but unless you are some Ring-nut who has to own EVERY production released, DO NOT BUY IT FOR REPEATED VIEWING - but then, there are three more evenings to go for a complete evaluation of this Ring Cycle !~!