The only reason I purchased this movie was because it had the name "Sam Raimi" attached to the producer credits, and while being a fan of Sam's older horror movies I haven't seen any of the recent ones he has directed and produced.  While this movie certainly has the Raimi touch about it in certain scenes, it wasn' the full on Raimi onslaught that I expected.  Having said this, I will say it was an okay movie that kept me interested, and jumping at certain points.  In fact, I started watching this movie in the dark and halfway through, I turned on the lights.

My biggest complaint about this movie was the packaging.  There is a scene on the back of the case that isn't even in the movie, but nonetheless gives away the whole plot!  I won't spoil it for everyone, but best avert your eyes from the scenes on the back of the case until the movie is over, and then take a look and you'll see what I mean.  Another complaint might also have to be the nature of the ghosts in this movie, who were extremely malevolent to the protagonist, and seemed to be less about being Messengers and more about outright attacking the heroine to get their 'message' across.  There is also the connection with the crows in the movie that remains a mystery - based on some of the clues presented in the movie it seems a  certain character has a mysterious relationship with them that is never fully revealed.  Finally, the banker plotline never completely made sense to me.  The logic between event A (the beginning of the movie) and event B (the family purchasing the farm) isn't conclusive, and leaves you wondering why the property wasn't purchased after event A transpired.  While I might accept this type of unresolved discontinuity in a Raimi-esque splatter-fest, I expect more out of a movie that presents itself as a 'serious' horror.

Moving on to the Blu-ray disc, the transfer is crisp and watching this film in high definition really added to the atmosphere.  The ghosts in the movie look well developed and grotesque, and there movement and screenplay was certainly creepy.  The movie itself is presented in 1:85:1, which means if you have a widescreen TV then you're going to enjoy a full-screen non-letterboxed experience.  The 1080p transfer looked excellent on my 1080i screen.  There are also bonus material on this disc for those of you craving content, and director commentary as well.