Screenwriter Andrew Kevin Walker is right on the verge of becoming the next big thing in Hollywood. He was the brain behind such great films as "Se7en", "Sleepy Hollow", and did some uncredited re-writes for "The Game" and "Fight Club." All those films were excellent, and "8mm" could have been too, had it not been handed to Joel Schumacher, the man who ruined the Batman series and who is the biggest hack in Hollywood.(Except for "Tigerland", which was a fluke.)
The story, born from Walker's brilliant mind, sounds great. A Private Eye(Nicolas Cage), is hired by a billionare's Widow after she found a possible "snuff" film in her dead husband's safe. So Nic Cage is sent to find out whether or not the film is real, plunging him into a sordid mystery filled with seedy characters and dark, abandoned buildings(Not a cliche or anything).
Could have been good. Should have been good. Would have been good, had A) David Fincher directed like originally planned, B) had Andy Kevin Walker had more creative input, and C) had Joel Schumacher had not taken over directing duties! The guy is horrible.
After Walker and Schumacher fought over creative differences, Walker walked, and left Schumacher and Nic "When's the last time this guy made a good movie?" Cage to run the show themselves. Want some examples? Okay. When the film was supposed to be suspenseful, I was shifting in my seat, yawning, checking my watch, etc. The big twisty ending(which went on way too long) was predictable, not to mention Schumacher and a new screenwriter he brought in tacked on a "happy ending." The acting for the most part is stiff and wooden. Not to mention the only way that the characters know how to express their emotions is by shouting the "F-word" at the top of their lungs.
To wrap things up, what could have been a hip and edgy thriller in the right hands, became a dull, predictable, and savagely unpleasant piece of poop in Schumacher's hand. Even if they couldn't get Fincher, the producers should have replaced him with someone with an eye for this kind of material.(For example a Chris Nolan, or a Roman Polanski) At least then they might have had a good movie. Maybe Walker will have better luck with his next screenplay...