When I saw this movie earlier this year at the Rotterdam Film Festival I was pleasantly surprised. At the beginning the analogy with 'The Blair Witch Project' and 'The Shining' pressed itself upon me, but seeing it through to the end the conclusion was very different. Instead of the forementioned movies where the menace (whether supernatural or not) is quite objectively registrated by the characters, 'The Wendigo' gives a very distinct, subtle handling. It has much more pathos and integrity, and triumphs by the use of what Lovecraft termed 'supernatural realism'.
The child Miles is witness to dramatic, disrupting events in his life, such as the shooting of his father, the threats of the locals, the mystical isolation of the forests. But instead of these events being triggered by the Wendigo, the Wendigo is rather a non-existent entity that Miles uses to weave the irrational events of adulthood into a discourse coherent to his young mind. Miles does not have a supernatural linkage to the Wendigo, but creates the Wendigo with the lore and idol that was given him to make sense of reality.
Thus, the Wendigo is not some blood-starved monster running around killing people, rather it is the mythology of the primtives to make sense to a hostile world in which they have been thrown that is put to use by a small child. Therefore I find the ending absolutely not disappointing: Miles' power of the imagination simply fails to put into coherence the most dreadful, and concluding, event of all.
Granted, there are some quirks in the movie, such as the camera work at the beginning after the deer has been hit by the family's car - I appreciate the attempt to create adrenaline and fright, but it is simply too persistent; or the unintentional laugh the scene provides when the local yokel spies on Miles' parents getting it on in the livingroom. But overall, the realism, the believeable characters, the disturbing portrayal of the Wendigo's movements, and the integrity with which the subject matter is handled sets this way above the average film product, and has made me enthusiastic enough to track down other Fessenden productions.