This is a awesome amazing godlike powerhouse of a film. 
Abel Ferrera's direction ,the style, a descendant of the late "Renoir" is truly absolutely amazing, the camera takes sweeping long shots coupled with smooth pans to create an amazingly dark sinister black world ,dark like the a-morality  dark like "tampons for bullet holes" dark like the drug dealers donating to Children's hospitals.
Chrisopher Walken the worlds most natural actor demands a incredible screen presence as the icy, haunted remote Frank White. To look at him it is as if to look from behind a sheet of pane glass. He dominates the screen like a blackhole even light is drawn to him. 
Every Character is a contradiction a contrast a parady of reality.
The vast off-screen space of New York created in which the drama unfolds, the pumping sound track which combines the contrast between the world of high society during which "Vivaldi' is played and the gangster rap underworld of 'Schoolly D', the films fluid effortless rhythmn, the wonderfully original dialog, the super-cool photography, the stark contrasts and simalarities between the gangster underworld and the upperclass friends that occupy Frank Whites life, The VIOLENCE the intense realistic shocking serene elegant violence, the god like perspective of Ferrera's camera calmly watching on as the chaos unfold on screen, the performance of Walken, The poetry of 'Schoolly D's Lyric's"  "am I black enough for you" becomes am I dark enough ,sinister like the a-moral characters that litter the screen, the films dissection of the state of America's culture and the light (cold grey haughtingly adding a certain freakishness to the film and Walkens performance). The relationship between dark and light the battle between good and evil fought in the heart of every character ,fought on screen between violence and peace. 
This is not a film it is a work of art, poetry, genius. A sign, vision of a gothic dementedly hypocritical society full of contrasts and contradiction. A piece of social commentry of the highest order. And most importantly a reflection of reality.
Combine to produce one of the greatest achievements of Western Civilisation as a whole.