It is a man's ego which tells him he is the hunter and she is the hunted. In fact, it is seldom so. A woman's doesn't open up her world unless she wants to; it is as simple as that. And here we have a woman - glamorous,  rich and, no doubt, highly wooed by an endless army of men. She is  intelligent, witty, sharp and quick. She dispenses of suitors as if it were  a game for she knows there isn't a man in the world who can win her heart,  but she waits nonetheless. 
Along comes an absent-minded professor who  she makes mincemeat of during a farcical encounter on a gold course. She  takes his golfball and car, makes a buffoon of him in front of others, and  stikes another notch on her belt. And that is that!
She sits that evening  in a nightclub, bored and learning "an-olive-in-the-glass" trick  from a bartender. An olive falls to the floor. She reaches to get it, but  our Professor, waiting to meet a benefactor for dinner, walks by and slips  on the olive, landing him atop his tophat he was holding in his hand. He  gets up and, seeing who it is, tells her "to go away". She says,  "I was here first". He says, "Then I'll go away." And  as she watches him move to another part of the nightclub, an amazing  transformation takes place. This beatuiful, intelligent woman who can have  any man she wants finds herself drawn to a man who wants nothing to do with  her! And this is unacceptable! And this is where the fun, the swiftest and  funniest rollercoaster ride in cinema, begins!
There may be movies which  honor this film through imitation ("What's Up Doc?" was more a  homage to it), but none have ever matched the relentless pace this movie  maintains. Slapstick aside, this is the funniest and, yet,  truly poignant  love stories ever brought to the screen.
You laugh bellylaughs, you laugh  hysterically and the wit and quick banter leave you begging for more. At  the end, though,when she swoons back and forth atop a ladder and he  professes his love for her and tells her she gave him the greatest day of  his life(a day in which he was wrestling a leapord in a pond, dressed in  drag, chased a fox terrier for hours looking for a dinasoaur bone, and  ended up in jail), you realize that the jaded woman has discovered life  through the prince that thought he was a frog!
Make no mistake about it -  this is a heart warming love story, albeit wrapped in the most hilarious  celluloid ever produced by Hollywood. 
If you have not seen this movie,  you have missed out on one of the foundations which make Hollywood the  Capital of the imagination. "Bringing Up baby" is the  "Citizen Kane" of comedy!