... and I just don't know whether it and I can still be friends.
It makes me so frustrated that this beautiful, sensitive, funny and utterly delightful movie about the challenges of coming out to ourselves and about our hangups following us along when we try to run away from them, got hijacked at the end and turned into something "safe" for a straight girl to watch with her boyfriend.  "Don't worry, honey, your masculinity won't feel threatened at all at the end... she goes back to men just like she's supposed to!"
Argh!  WHY couldn't this have been our movie?!
Look, coming out to oneself IS just that difficult, and at least for those of us who run neurotic to begin with, getting started at same-sex sex really CAN be awkward to the point of utter ridiculousness.  So Jessica was insecure and had to deal with all the classic coming-out angst (right down to the gloriously modern twist that her friends and family are more OK with her than she is!), so we relate, we identify, we empathize, for hours.
The problem is, after all that, I guess this movie couldn't be made both affirming for us and "safe" for mainstream straight folks at the same time.  So at the end, we're the ones who get the rug yanked out.  Surprise!  All that familiar insecurity and confusion happened because she really never was supposed to be with women in the first place!  What a relief that must be to the "bicurious straight girls"!  Yes, dear, you can experiment, have your fun, and then go right back to the approved normal life society wants you to have.  Never mind about the feelings of the girls you experiment with, either.  (Helen was no innocent victim, but... staying her best friend after that?  Talk about your lesbian fantasies!)
Jessica's a fictional character, so I get to say this: she could have, and should have, been a real bisexual girl.  She was true-to-life, identifiable-with, utterly delightful, and was figuring it out.  It was working.  Sure, she & Helen needed an interesting relationship challenge, but why not give them one they could actually overcome?
Straight people already HAVE feel-good romantic comedies.  Give us back "Jessica Stein"!
(I actually thought, on first viewing, that the credits were going to roll just after they moved in together, and I'm thinking I might choose to pretend that they do.  It's a pretty feel-good queer-girl movie that way.  Next best thing to a DVD "bonus alternate ending", I guess!)