Since most Pythons fans,have already seen this film and formed their opinion,and since this is THAT same film,I'm going to waste space here at Amazon by reviewing only the "bonus materials". ( Which by-the-by,are REALLY cool.)
I am happy to say John Cleese got more involved with this one,and he's a welcome sight.(Still looney after all these years.).Included on this disc are the deleted scenes! "Martin Luther" was a given,since it's in the script book,as is the extended "Philosophy Restraunt" bit with Carol Cleveland.BUT...there is a Public Service Annoucement by Terry Jones about why War is good for the economy and the Cheese Industry ( with Eric Idle interpreting in Swedish(?),plus a bit more of Mr.Creosote,a bit more of Mr.&amp; Mrs.Hendy ( Palin &amp; Idle ) and their three limbed bell boy ( Gilliam,whom has a wheel for one hand ).There is also a deleted scene of French Waiter Idle,leading us on a very lonnnnnnnng walk &amp; bus ride. There is also an option to view a "directors cut" which re-incorporates all of the cut scenes,back into the original film....it's a bit sloppy...but gives you the general premise....and also shows you why the scenes were cut. There is a segment featuring alternate versions of three film songs....which shows you why these were re-done.( The final versions were MUCH better.).The Virtual Python re-union is a must for Python fans waiting to see them all together again! There is also an Aquarium of fish,and what they think. ( It runs for about 20 minutes,for those who don't have the patience.).There's the John Cleese version of the trailer. There's the re-mastering of the film,in which Jones finds the masters in the trash,and Gilliam gives up and throws it all out again!There's all sorts of interviews new and old,trailers,and some funny poster designs.( Most of which Terry Jones hates.).There's also a "Soundtrack for the Lonely" option,in which it sounds like you have guests watching with you! Over all...the extras are a delight,and make this worth having....even if you didn't like the original film.