On August 6, 1945 the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima. An estimated 130,000 people were killed and 90% of the city was completely leveled. Japan never completely recovered from that incident.
Ten years later Japan was the site of another catastrophic event. On November 3, 1955 many Japanese fishing boats were being destroyed by what was called "a wall of fire" on the ocean. Many scientists were called in to investigate the mystery. It was eventually discovered that the cause of the burning fire on the ocean was a prehistoric creature resurrected from its eternal rest by the resulting radiation of the Hiroshima incident. The prehistoric creature, was known as "Godzilla."
Driven by animal instincts Godzilla eventually made his way to Tokyo where he proceeded to decimate the entire city. Japan's army fought by bravely, but their efforts proved futile against Godzilla's sheer strength and resistance. Although his attack was brief, the death toll and destruction was even higher then the Hiroshima blast.
Godzilla was too big of a threat for the world to ignore, something had to be done and quickly, before Godzilla could attack again. Shortly after the last attack, Dr. Serizawa came public with his latest discovery. A device capable of removing all oxygen in the area of water it resided in. This device was dubbed the Oxygen Destroyer. It was decided that the Oxygen Destroyer was the only means capable of defeating Godzilla.
Dr. Serizawa hesitantly let his creation be used. He was lowered into Tokyo Bay near the location of Godzilla, where the Oxygen Destroyer was activated. The device proved to be a success and Godzilla was destroyed, suffering a very slow, painful death, leaving behind nothing more than a gigantic skeleton. Unfortunately Dr. Serizawa was also lost. He committed suicide and died with Godzilla, taking the secrets of the Oxygen Destroyer with him to the grave.
With Godzilla gone, the survivors set about the arduous task of rebuilding their once impressive civilization.
This is truly a classic amongst monster movies. To this day I can still remember the terror I felt when I saw "Godzilla" for the first time when it appeared on TNT during an all night marathon.
For years I've searched for a good copy of this movie and just recently I found the movie that first introduced me to what was destined to become a legend of epic proportion.
Film quality-wise the movie looks old in some scenes. It could've been cleaned up but I think it helps add to the atmosphere of the movie.
The reason for the four star rating is because of the DVD itself. It would've received a five if it had more features. It should've had a copy of the orginal Japanese version with English subtitles, maybe a two disc package for collectors.
Overall I wold reccomend this DVD to anyone who can't find the original "Gojira". If you saw it as a kid, get it and rediscover the sense of terror you felt so long ago.