I first saw "Dr. Zhivago" as a teenager at a theater in Reno, Nevada, at the height of summer. Despite the heat, I left the movie frozen; the film is so thoroughly Russian that I saw snowfields and ice-covered rivers and lakes for the rest of the day. The vividness consumed your imagination -- especially at the height of the Cold War. Boris Pasternak's novel couldn't even be read in the Soviet Union, yet I could watch a film about it half a world away, in the mini-sin city of Reno.

That distinctly Russian brutality of politics, soul and season has lost nothing with the passage of years. "Dr. Zhivago" is one of the seminal epics, a film of such vastness, beauty, and precision that you fear it might lose something vital when transferred to a new medium, but in Blu-Ray the experience is, if anything, more overwhelming. The sound is certainly better; a theater in 1965 simply can't compare with what you can do in your home in 2010. And the overpowering vistas look even more overwhelming on a modern digital flat-screen TV.

"Zhivago" is a movie about one of those pivot points in history, but it is a subtle history teacher. It doesn't directly talk about how large Imperial Russia was, or how the serfs and workers were repressed, or the titanic, contrasting struggles between imperialists, traditionalists, democrats and communists. It doesn't directly judge who was right or who was wrong. Instead, it focuses on one good-hearted man, a physician, and how he was swept up by, first, World War I, and then the almost endless battles between various factions in post-revolution Russia. Throughout it all, he is an observer, but rarely an active player. He is able to see the value in almost any point of view, but unwilling to direct anyone to see his own point of view. Like most of us, he is a pawn of history.

But a pawn who loves. Loves deeply and matrimonially. Loves deeply and in sin. These loves, at the core of his existence, are what sustain him as Zhivago is buffeted back and forth by horrendous, wrenching, dehumanizing forces. In this, he makes a choice: he remains human.

Nearly a half century after its release "Dr. Zhivago" remains a powerful, beautiful, ugly, intimate and passionate film, and Blu-Ray makes it shine brighter than ever. If you have a desire to see Omar Sharif, Julie Christie, Geraldine Chaplin, Rod Steiger and Alec Guinness at their finest, watch this, and be captivated.