Dark Jackie. Jackie Chan' which is, almost that entirely finds that of the thunderbolt so easily it is not; The film of s is totaled. As for that Bronx" So " You could do just after at that collision of Rumble,; That ankle was broken still in order and for I to understand, when (be wrong it can) doing the portion of redoubling the Aaron Kwok growth obstruction which that Sammo Hung trained. I like Aaron, therefore this is good depending on me. Now, as a state of title, as for this your average of Jackie optimistic it is and it is not the film. He smiles is gotten angry, is driven two degrees of this film entirely, I love that! Jackie works master millwright like autoshop which that father moves. At that free time, as for Jackie the police who has the car which is improved illegally is helped. Cougar which temporarily, as for the villain is shown (What' of name of the villain of the animal; As for s? ? ) Competing it goes, with blockade him in order to pursue to the murder, and the defectiveness the jump of Jackie of the policeman and the car the racecar operator who is not likes the cougar, but it manages well. As for the defectiveness that wicked mobstar him after in the jail which is broken excessively long carted. Concerning that brave behavior in order to obtain interview inside that, the beautiful female reporter hang on in Jackie. If the cougar freedom it is good, he thinks that we want proper vengeance, and the re-tournament, therefore it is seen, the cruelest 6 minutes I' The cougar those which use the crane and are new to pull Jackie at the one of ve and tear, Jackie' S owns the house. Jackie' The whole family of s and it is there, everything can being kicked snot from those. One of that 2 sisters is kidnapped, 1 goes from vegetable impact and the damage. Depending upon that father, excessively, the heart seizure suffers, Jackie only the fill which the doctor executes secretly, can rush him in the hospital where Jackie is not calmed down. The cougar using those as the insurance where Jackie takes that challenge in order to compete him of special competition of high profile, kidnaps the both sisters. (As for me magnificence prix, or something. ) The competitive fan, so I' M it is not true, naturally, obstacle enters into method: As for reporter her Jackie' S sisters' Although trying because of the good story where it threatens, the crash of Jackie profit, without the stand it does the small-numbered thing above; Because of those which he needs safety, Jackie doesn' In t, he' of feeling noise on that father and sisters; S, and so on... how it ends that it has the car which works? Seeing, find! As a Jackie enthusiastic fan, I owns the majority of that movies, as for this one is fave 8 on me. It' of the just you are surprised; S and as for me darker Jackie' The s angstier side is loved. Lunatic he' S. Time (He' S we fear) Sawayama's behavior, excessively, and one of the fight scenes where the 10*ª‚&Igrave; casino of the game of Pachinko is coolest. Don' The light/write and you laugh t, it' which is that way; This movie which is not desires s and is obtained. This like the sand, the blade is sharper and keeps being surprised. I don' Heart subplot of small romance it makes t equal. Profit do that!