I recently re-watched the brilliant film version of John Le Carrë's The Spy Who Came in From the Cold. I hadn't seen this movie in many years, not since I was a kid watching it on broadcast T.V. (Yes, I am that old. Alas, I even remember test patterns). Although it had been decades, the movie's stark images and somber mood had always stayed with me, lurking just below the surface, ready to pop into my frontal lobes at any moment. The plot had long since faded from my memory - other than the vaguest recollections that it involved double agents, deceit and trickery - but its cinematic style had not. And I was pleased to now see that these powerful images were not just the result of viewing the film with a young, impressionable mind. They are real and they are that good, even to the mature eye.
The film is a striking contrast to the exciting and exotic world occupied by James Bond. In fact, their textures could not be more opposite. The movie was shot in black and white, even though by 1965 we were well into the age of color. That choice amplifies the harsh, dreary imagery: a London that is perpetually shrouded in driving rain; a Holland seascape that seems barren and desolate; and, of course, the scarred and dingy East Berlin and its infamous wall. Richard Burton's Alec Leamas is downbeat and bitter as only Richard Burton can be. It's as if his George from Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? were transported into the land of spies and along the way had most of the remaining life sucked out of him. There are no shaken martinis or bottles of Dom Perignon for him. Rather, his cover as a fallen agent requires him to pinch pennies that afford him only half bottles of whiskey. And his love interest, while pretty, is a quiet and misguided librarian. No glamorous Bond girls for you, Mr. Leamas.
One of the film's most satisfying aspects is the way both the plot and the imagery come full circle, beginning and ending at the Berlin wall. That bleak wall almost becomes character itself, coldly dispensing death at both ends of the story. Ultimately, this is a movie about small human lives, twisted and manipulated for cold war gains, bookended by death.
If you haven't seen The Spy Who Came in From the Cold, you should. It has earned its standing as a classic of the serious spy genre. You won't find any perfectly made martinis here, but you may find that you yourself are shaken and stirred.

Respectfully,

SecretAgentFanForum.blogspot.com