We last saw Richard Sharpe (Sean Bean) in the thick of the fighting at the Battle of Waterloo (1815). After Waterloo, Colonel Sharpe resigned his commission and returned with his lovely French wife Lucille to her farm in Normandy. Two years have passed, Lucille has died from a fever, and widower Sharpe receives an order to report to the Duke of Wellington at British army headquarters in London (usually referred to correctly in the Sharpe stories as "Horse Guards"). Wellington wants Sharpe to return to India as his agent to investigate a potentially dangerous uprising against British East India Company rule by one of the rajahs of the Maratha (pronounced Maratta) Confederacy Khande Rao (Karan Panthaky) who is known to be building a large army and using it to raid outposts of the British East India Company (hereinafter referred to as "the Company" for brevity). Sharpe is initially unwilling to return to India until he learns that Wellington had sent Sharpe's old comrade-in-arms Sergeant Major Patrick Harper (Daragh O'Malley) to India to investigate the rebellion and that Harper has been missing for six months.

Sharpe arrives in India wearing the green uniform of the 95th Rifles and with the title Colonel Sharp but lacking a commission in either the British Army or the Company's army. He is required to report to General Burroughs, commander of the Company's 3rd Army, but first meets the general's stunning daughter Celia who is travelling to join her father but has been delayed on a dirt road by a mishap to one of the wagons of her military escort which comprises about twenty Company native foot soldiers (Sepoys) and a troop of about twenty native cavalry under the command of Englishman Captain Lawrence. Sharpe warns Captain Lawrence that this area is dangerously close to the fortress of Ferragher from which the rebel Rajah Khande Rao deploys his marauders. When told that the escort party are awaiting the return of their native cavalry who have gone off to forage, Sharpe offers to look for them. He finds the native cavalry in a village whose inhabitants have been slaughtered by Khande Rao's marauders. They are attacked when the marauders return, and are hard pressed until assisted by a heavily disguised man who turns out to be Sergeant Major Harper wielding his lethal seven-barrel rifle. Sharpe and Harper return with the native cavalry to the place where Sharpe left Celia Burroughs and find that all foot soldiers of her escort have been killed and that she and Captain Lawrence have been taken captive by the rebel rajah's troops who are led by a former Company lieutenant and turncoat named William Dodd (Toby Stephens). Dodd is a vicious and ambitious psychopath who has been appointed a general to lead Khande Rao's army and will prove to be a dangerous adversary for Sharpe to overcome. Sharpe's wants to set off in pursuit with Harper but is advised by the commander of the native cavalry Captain Mohan Singh (Aly Khan) that they must report the seizure of his daughter to General Burroughs.

On arrival at the 3rd Army encampment, Sharpe learns that General Burroughs is suffering from a lengthy illness and that his Company army is now commanded by Sharpe's arch-enemy from the campaign against Napoleon in Spain, the cowardly, bullying, and incompetent General Sir Henry Simmerson (Michael Cochrane) who hates Sharpe. One of the odd aspects of this Sharpe adventure is Simmerson's apparent willingness to accept Sharpe's verbal assurance that he speaks with the authority of Horse Guards in London even though he produces no document to prove that authority, and Simmerson does not demand to see such proof of authority from a person whom he despises. A messenger arrives from Khandi Rao with the severed head of Captain Lawrence and a warning that if the British attack the fortress of Ferragher, Khandi Rao will kill General Burrough's daughter. When pressed by Sharpe, the cowardly Simmerson refuses to move the 3rd Army against Khande Rao's fortress without Company orders and reinforcements, but he agrees to let Sharpe and Harper risk their lives in an attempt to infiltrate Ferragher and rescue Celia Burroughs with the dismissive words: "Go and die Sharpe." Before leaving the encampment, Sharpe speaks to the fever-stricken General Burroughs who welcomes Sharpe's help in rescuing his daughter with the words: "Bring her back for me Colonel." While Sharpe and Harper set out on this highly dangerous mission, General Burroughs overrides Simmerson and, despite his fragile state of health, orders his troops to strike camp and  march on Ferragher.

Will Sharpe and Harper rescue the general's beautiful daughter alive and defeat the villains behind the formidable walls of the fortress of Ferragher? The military action so well loved by Sharpe fans then develops at a brisk and unrelenting pace and is matched by poisonous intrigue in Ferragher. Although I personally preferred Sharpe's adventures in the settings of the Napoleonic war, I thoroughly enjoyed this story and recommend it to all fans of Sharpe's adventures.