Being of huge fan of Spike Lee's, "Do The Right Thing" I picked up this movie the other day b/c it was a movie I wanted to see, but never took the time to go see it in the theater.  My friends saw it and had mixed feelings, but I wanted to judge it for myself.  And I got what I expected.  Well, mostly.
The characters in the story are the best part of the movie, as each actor/actress handles their roles with true abandon.  But Barry Pepper definately overshadows any of the other actor's performance.  This guy is great and where I was disappointed with "Knock-Around Guys" (mainly because of pace), this movie finally depicted the true talents and lead-quality that Barry Pepper has had all along.  Philip Seymour Hoffman was great as well, although I felt that Spike Lee forgot to continue on with his development about two-thirds into the movie.  And Edward Norton always delivers.  Always.  
Even with that out-of-place monologue that took me by suprise  (This is the segue into all my criticisms). I just got the impression that Spike Lee was trying too hard.  It was a nifty idea, but the timing seemed off.  The actors carried themselves, but it was the editing of this movie that brought it down.  In the beginning, there is an unbelievable amount of discontinuity.  I could see how there could be a point to doing this, as to express the discontinuity of New York after 9/11....but if this was the case...it was poorly executed.  The beginning is discontinuous...the middle of the movie is normal...and the end of the movie starts with the discontinuity again....it's baffling!  And I dont think that by doing this, any meaning was expressed except "bad editing".  At least that's what I first thought.  I swear I was having deja vu about 20 times in the movie.
Despite all this and some bad overdubbing (the apartment scene, Edward Norton's voice is off with his mouth when he tells the cop to sit down)...this movie was overall enjoyable.  But I suggest you watch another Spike Lee movie before renting this...to get a flavor of his style and modes of expression.  But if you are an Edward Norton, Barry Pepper, or Philip Seymour Hoffman fan, I think it's safe to recommend this to you.