Gremlins: Classic 80's cinema, and Joe Dante's best work.  If you haven't see this movie, shame on you!  Go and see it.
The movie open up when inventor Rand Peltzer(Hoyt Axton)is lead into a small curio shop in chinatown by the store owner's grandson.  Rand hears some strange noises coming from the back of the pet shop and heads back to see what it is.  The noises are eminating from a small furry creature called a 'Mogwai'.  Impressed with it, Mr. Peltzer offers $200 for it, but is told that it is not for sale.  "With Mogwai comes much resposibility," says the shop owner. "I cannot sell him at any price."  The Chinese man's grandson, however, tells him to meet him outside with the money.  Once outside, he is handed the Mogwai. The kid then tells Mr. peltzer three rules he must remember: #1:Keep him out of the light, especially sunlight. #2: Don't get him wet, and the most important rule: NEVER feed him after midnight.  
Rand comes back home and presents his son, Billy(Zach Galligan) the Mogwai, which he has christened 'Gizmo'.  Mom tries to take a picture of the Mogwai, thus breaking the first rule...and the other two will be broken in a matter of hours!  The next day, Billy's friend Pete spills water on the Mogwai, breaking the second rule.  When Mogwais are wet, they reproduce.  Soon, 5 new mogwais are born, one of which is named 'Stripe' due to a stipe of white hair running down his back.  That night, the Mogwais start making a ruckus for some food.  Billy checks his clock, which reads 11:00, so he gives the mogwais some left over chicken.  All of them eat it, except Gizmo.  The next morning, Billy wakes up to discover 5 sticky cocoons on the ground next to his bed.  His mother asks him if he fed the mogwai after midnight.  Billy checks his clock, which still reads 11:00.  The mogwais tricked him into feeding them after midnight by chewing through the power cord.  When the cocoon hatch, Gremlins come out of them, and run amok, in the most comical way possible, of course.  Can Billy stop the Gremlins and save his town?  Watch and find out!