Note: this is my HD review of the movie, not on the movie itself. [...]
Just watched this last night, my second HD DVD. My first reference disc was Chronos. Blazing Saddles is similar in that there is a lot scenery to judge objects by (although a lot of it might not be real).  What was missing in the Hi-Def experience was a narrative consisting of people in action, so I looked to Blazing Saddles to provide that.

It as immediatley apparent to my guests that Blazing Saddles was not normal definition. Although the minute natural details were not as precise as in Chronos (this was after all filmed on a movie set with artificial backdrops) the dimensionality was still there. The sky was a natural blue, with realistic cloud formation.  Rocks and trees along with man-made objects had definite dimensionality, almost jumping out of the screen. Like Chronos,  those natural objects take on a life of their own on the screen that is not apparent in normal def.

And of course there were the people. Faces and body shapes actually seem to possess mass so that the experience is more like  3-d than watching a two dimensional image. This is due to the additional contrast between foreground and background provided by the hi-def image. Skin tones were natural with perceptible sweat and a warmth that draws the viewer into the character.

Downsides: The movie is supposed to have a 5.1 soundtrack, but I never caught anything out of the rear speakers although there was a definite centre channel for spoken dialoue, so its not mere stereo.  There were times that I thought 5.1 would have been nice such as choir, crowd, and explosion scenes, but despite that the sound was excellent.  And I thought there could have been more precise detail in places, however it is an older movie. Anyway, these two points take away a star.

What we do have is a classic made more enjoyable by the better resolution, and a host of extras sometimes omitted on hi-def discs. You can skip the openings and go straight to the movie by hitting 'next' on the remote. Good menu bar that pops up which allows for continued watching of the movie while making your selection. "Stop" however takes you back to the beginning of movie which is annoying so another reason to omit a star.

In conclusion, a definite keeper in my library as it is one of my favourite movies. If its yours, you will be happy with this purchase.

Equipment: Toshiba HD-A2 DVD player, Denon AVR-4306 amp/receiver, Bose Acoustimass® 16 speaker system, Hitachi 55HDX99 Plasma HDTV