Yes, FARGO won lots of awards; and sure, RAISING ARIZONA is funny; but make no mistake: MILLER'S CROSSING is the quintessential Coen brothers film.  In point of fact, it's flawless, a jewel you can turn over and  around in your hands again and again, seeing a new facet every time, each  one striking and smooth and perfect.
Joel Coen and Ethan Coen's script is  awash with Prohibition-era jargon both historically grounded and  whimsically invented, a symphony of phrases and exchanges that linger and  echo long after being heard.  It isn't unusual after a viewing to walk  around asking friends, "What's the rumpus?", or to complain about  being given "the high hat" upon being snubbed.  (Good dialogue  always has a way of worming its way into common parlance, but only  _excellent_ dialogue can do so in defiance of instant  recognizability.)
The performances, as well, are individually and  collectively irresistable.  I defy you, in fact, to find a single film in  which _any_ of the major players has ever been better.  There's not a false  or miscast note in the whole of the dramatis personae.  There's Gabriel  Byrne as the inscrutable, Machiavellian Tom Regan, a trusted Irish mob  advisor who falls out of favor with the boss and defects to the rival  Italian camp to save his own skin...or does he?  Albert Finney plays Leo,  the aforementioned Irish power broker whose fists of iron, vicious survival  instinct, and all-too-vulnerable heart congeal into a simply remarkable,  unforgettable character.  John Turturro is equal parts pathetic outcast and  conniving opportunist as Bernie Birnbaum, the unscrupulous, vampirically  pale bookmaker whose shady maneuvers set the whole plot into motion.  Marcia Gay Harden exudes fierce intelligence and buckets of carefully-aimed  sex appeal as Bernie's sister Verna, whose unflagging drive to protect her  brother -- even from himself -- almost excuse her twisted machinations.  Jon Polito, as hot-tempered Italian ringleader Johnny Caspar, may be the  only character at hand to actually feel sorry for, as his oddly consistent  ethical code makes it a sure bet he doesn't stand a chance in this  environment.
There's more to say about the acting, of course, but I'll  stop there rather than pour accolades onto the entire cast.  And when I say  "entire," I'm not exaggerating: _every_ person who comes into  frame, each and every one, from the leads to the smaller parts to the  people with one line or none at all, fit together and play off of each  other as though they'd been born to do nothing else in their entire lives.  The resultant effect actually makes it difficult to subsequently keep from  noticing acting and casting problems in other films.
A few brief words  about some of the other eleements of production.  Barry Sonnenfeld's  sure-footed photography, as always, is smooth and steady where appropriate,  and frenetic where necessary.  The set design and costuming make for such  an astonishing illusion that were this not a color film, you might actually  forget that it was released 9 and not 69 years ago.  And even the sound --  from the music (diegetic and otherwise) to the crystal-clear sound effects  that pierce the visual and draw you in by the ears, like they're supposed  to -- is a _presence_ in its own right throughout the film.  I mean, when  was the last time ice cubes dropping into an old-fashioned glass or the  wringing out of an alcohol-soaked rag into a tinny dish felt truly _woven_  into the designed effect of a scene in a movie?
What continues to amaze  me about MILLER'S CROSSING is that no matter how many times I see it,  regardless of how hard I look, I _can't find anything wrong with it_.  That's an extremely rare situation in my experience.  It's what we all want  out of a movie, and almost never get.  MILLER'S CROSSING delivers exactly  that feeling, and when Tom Regan leans against that tree and adjusts that  hat in the haunting final shot, he knows it just as surely as we do.  He  doesn't seem to feel especially happy about it, but that's okay.  _You_  will.