Ok, this movie wasn't quite what i was expecting. I figured it would be a lot of Kick-Ass somehow beating guys down and just plain violent comedy. And when i saw Kick-Ass's first appearance my jaw dropped. and then the movie just kept getting better. It got very heavy towards the end i.e. Kick-Ass's "retirement". But I absoultely loved this movie. The fight scenes were amazing and they kept me on the edge of the seat because the heroes could be wounded or even worse killed. They aren't the normal invincible heros you always see and I loved their unorthodox way of handling evil.
  And the characters were the type that you can almost connect with. They are mostly people you actually know. Dave's friends are a great duo on screen and made me laugh almost every time even when I was still cringing from the ole knuckle duster. And even though every other review has mentioned it i will again Hit-Girl was simply awesome. There isn't quite anything like watching an 11-year old with a purple wig smile as she drives a pike through a drug-dealer's chest. Dave (Kick-Ass) was also one of those characters you can relate to in some way. He captures the upstanding, just morale that everyone feels and embodies the yearning to do something great for society. Big Daddy was another great character. I thought Nicholas Cage was just as good as Gone in 60 Seconds if not better. I loved watching destroy so many thugs in such a fast fluid assault. Red Mist is a great character too. Christopher Mintz-Plasse does not wander too far from McLovin and I could care less. The mix of the nerdy goofyness and evil make a hilarious maniacal villain.
  Then there is the soundtrack, and it almost leaves me speechless. I was unaware of The Prodigy, then Stand up started at the beginning of the movie and i was hooked. My absolute favorite song is Omen now, which was used during Kick-Ass's first couple of fight scenes. The song used for Hit-Girl when she slaughtered the drug den was hilarious as well. I am a hardcore classic rock listener and when Joan Jett and the Blackhearts started to play I couldn't help but grin from ear to ear. That song really fit that scene for me.
  In closing this is not a movie i would recommend for everyone because of the grotesque violence that would make the weak of heart, and stomach, wince and shy away. Then for everyone else, see this movie! I cannot wait for the sequel!