"Predator" is by far my favorite movie ever, it is the epitome of everything that was great about 80's action films. There are tons of explosions, loads of cheesey dialogue, steroid induced muscles galor, and let's not forget the human hunting alien that stalks it's eventual prey.

Taking place in the Guatemalan jungle, Arnold Schwarzenegger and his band of elite commandos must find and bring back some supposed CIA agents who crashed on the wrong side of the border. Taking orders from one-time friend Dillon(actor Carl Weathers), joins the small band and quickly finds out that Guatemalan rebels may be the least of their worries.

After discovering the crashed helo, Schwarzenegger and crew, led by Native American guide Billy, track the rebels to a small base in the jungle, and commence blowing the living crap out of everything and everyone in sight. Upon destruction of the base, the group discovers that Dillon cooked the whole story up for them to do his "Dirty Work". Knowing the group wasn't interested in being hit-men, Dillion does what government agents do best, LIE! Angry and ready to split, Arnold and crew are told there is no chance of an evac, the area is to hot for pick up. The group must hoof through the treacherous jungle terrain.

During their trek through the bad bush, the group starts to disappear one-by-one. Nobody knowing what has happened, and everyone's blood starting to hit a boiling point. When Blaine(Jesse Ventura) gets killed with a electric charge his buddy Mac(Bill Duke) sees the creature and proceeds to destroy half the jungle with a Vulcan Mini gun. Slowly but surely the group is reduced in strength, until there is nobody left but Arnold and the Predator.

The fight between Arnold Schwarzenegger and Kevin Peter Hall, a.k.a. the Predator, is of epic 80's proportions. You have knives, grenades, lasers, bows and arrows, fists and even a tree trap. The epic clash ends as you would expect, Arnold destroys the alien, saves humanity and lives to kill another day.

I can't make you like this movie, but i'm sure after one watch you'll see why this is one of the most enduring movie characters of all time. It's just flat-out awesome!