Many people love this series, I know, or tend to remember it fondly if they havent seen it recently, I too liked it , watched it each week in the 80s, but a friend about 10 yrs older than i, who was an Australian  Vietnam  vet, openly ridiculed it from the start, to an extent you couldn't watch it with him, he wouldn't shut up mocking it, his right, of course, having been there, in country in 'Nam, he was wounded by an RPG and fought one Cong who appeared had a machete bent on dealing with the wounded, Rick ended up shanking the  the guy with a small knife that is in the First Aid kit for cutting bandages dressing wounds, ended up inflicting some wounds with it instead.

I saw a post on the China Beach thread referring to both shows as 'great shows' of Vietnam war period,
 China Beach probably is,
TOD, not really, imo.

About a year ago, it started to run in syndication on Tv in Australia, late nights, I saw 2 episodes, one was the pilot, I think, one was about Tunnels and 'tunnel-rats' unit, Terence Knox goes down into a tunnel with another soldier, maybe one of the black GIs, when one of the special Tunnel rats is ejected KIA by the VC in the tunnel.

I have to say this, the show has its strong-points, most of this is concerned with exploring issues and themes.

It harkens to the old 1960s Vic Morrow series "Combat", set nowhere in particular in France in months after d-day invasion, a small squad of GIs, much like the Bravos in TOD, wander about the countryside encountering the odd nest of angry German infantry, who are usually considerate enough to break cover run straight out in front of them firing Schmeissers, only to be promptly KIAd (without blood or flesh-mess)  by Saunders Thompson, Little John and Cages Garands , or Kirbys BAR.  Combat also often, if not always, explored war and combat issues, of various kinds, some episodes were better than others. Two of the best concerned the Sergeant is taken prisoner by the 'krauts', in amongst the other GI POWs is a German plant, played by Claude Akins. Another great one was the one with a village priest who was also a german Agent:there was also a 2-part Hamburger Hill style story of attempting to take a hill dogedly held by Germans. Only to finally take it, at heavy cost, in time to be ordered to abandon it, by High command.

Tour of Duty, to me, is Combat with longer grass  and Asian "Krauts" and civilians.
In both shows, the combat scenes are rarely realistic or even credible. Sometimes in both shows, they verged into the ridiculous.
Both units repeatedly walked unwittingly into German/VC/NVA perfect ambushes killing zones, only to escape being wiped out due to a crazy last-minute bungle by the enemy troops, such as a nervous VC pulling back his AK47 rifle-bolt at the last moments, making a loud click ,  alerting the GIs.. who hear it, go to ground for a few seconds, then continue on regardless, but still somehow escape mandatory annihilation. Even when a nervous enemy soldier doesnt blow the ambush, despite the MG42 or whatever MGs the Cong had opening up at 20 yards range on a tightly bunched group of our heroes, they rarely achieve any more execution that 1 or 2 WIAs. Usually "expendables', like in Star Trek, not guys we recognize who are far too important to be successfuly greased  by Charlie.
Although I think Bravos' quiet Japanese Nisei guy is KIA eventually.

Somewhat ironically, the only guy dear to them Bravo  ever lost,  in an Asian war,  was an Asian-American.

Both shows had a charismatic platoon sergeants, although Terence Knoxs Sergeant has a little more personality with his headband,  southern accent and wry humour, than Vic Morrow's sullen but memorable .45 Thompson-carrying sgt Saunders.

TOD has an additional strength that Combat lacked, the great 60s soundtrack, but I have heard the DVD sets lack the original sound-tracks for legal reasons. Combat just had the same trudging, but again memorable,  set of "Combat"  theme and scores..and the odd ripple of a French accordion.

to sum up, TOD has something to say, but it has dated , not that well, the battle scenes do not match todays standard such as Private Ryan or Flags of our Fathers,they are often farcical, with 'Ruiz' standing out in the open banging away from the hip with an M60,  the strength of both shows is exploring some war issues, with acting which is adequate to fairly  good in both shows,  with TOD scoring  additional points with music soundtrack and capturing with some success, the atmosphere of the period.

If you want to know what battle was like in Vietnam, no, it takes you nowhere with that, no realism whatsover, but if you want to see what were some genuine features and issues of Nam explored with some fact and entertainment value, and enjoy 60s music and atmosphere, yes, its a buy.