Listen up people  I am from HESSVILLE (HAMMOND) Indiana which is the same place where A Christmas Story takes place.its in the northwest part of indiana about 20 minutes from chicago and right next to Gary.  now i wasnt around in the forties but i do know the area very well since i have lived here all of my life.  and the way the movie is set up, its exactly the same then, than it is now.even the telephone pole where Flick gets his tounge stuck to is in the exact same spot as it is in the movie and you can even see 165th street when the fire department is getting his tongue off.  the school Warren G Harding Elementary is the same, same name, same exact red building.  But there are 2 things That I dont like about the movie and being from the same town in where this movie took place in, i feel that my opinion is valed, so if your not from around here then there are a few things that you should know and next time you watch this movie, keep them in mind.  First, in the movie the narrator calls the town HOHMAN, Indiana, there is no such place as Hohman its really called Hammond,Indiana, Hohman is the the name of the main street in downtown Hammond and Its called Hohman Avenue, now i dont know why Jean Shepard did this And if he wanted to be really specific he would have called the town HESSVILLE which is the part of Hammond this story really takes place in. So the City is Hammond but Hessville is the part of Hammond where this movie is supposed to take place.  Now in the movie Ralphie grew up on the LEFT side of Cleveland Street but in all actuallity he lived on the RIGHT side of Cleveland Street further down by (now known as FLICKS TAP which is a bar on Kennedy Ave. that FLICK himself built) see the movie is about Jean Shepard when he was a little kid but he gave some of the characters different names, and changed te name of the city, except for Flick and a few of his other friends, those are real people.  now i thought the movie was great and everything else was perfect i think that jean shepard was a brilliant man (thats why we just built this recreation center and named it after him) I just wish he would have did the littles things that would, for me, make the movie even better. so IF YOUR ever in the area you should stop by theres alot of history here.  thanks for your time