Its really amazing seeing Pumping Iron again after so many years and seeing again why Arnold was my idol when I was a teen and getting into weight lifting. I used to anxiously await the arrival of the next issue of Joe Weider's Muscle magazine in the local health food store so I could be inspired by the awesome force that was Arnold Schwarzenegger. Then Pumping Iron came out, and I couldn't believe it! Actually seeing him on the screen...this dude was awesome...immense,beautiful, sculpted, so much charisma he didn't even seem human and even better, the confidence, the master of mind games, and  also he said whatever he felt like, and he was so much better than anyone else.
And now, with this 25th anniversary release, we get the original, showing the Force of Nature That Was Arnold...unbelievable, really, he was strength and beauty and charisma and you can't  take your eyes off the 28 year old Arnold...to compare to the recent specially- filmed material, which represents:
Number one, A lot of  Arnold, since he does own this film now...
Number two, Arnold the future politician, seemingly doing damage control,and despite soon to be the governernor of California, speaks as a politician does, equivocating and explaining things away. The young Arnold didn't care, he spoke his mind, you had to take him as he was, and he didn't care what people thought.
I don't know, I'm surprised that this guy, who had sooo much charisma, is now a movie star /politician who chooses his words carefully  (watch the Iron Insights portion of the additional material)and has got an agenda, just half his previous charisma (which is still a lot), but dyed hair and a botoxed forehead and waxy skin, and you compare him  to that young Force of Nature that he was... I kind of wish he kept being himself, and didn't change, didn't get plastic surgery, or go into politics where you're forced to speak politically and have to choose carefully your words...instead kept saying whatever he wanted because he was ARNOLD...I kind of wish that guy were still around, older, but realer, gray hairs, wrinkles (didn't Mike Katz and Luo Ferrigno and others look great, and older and REAL?)
Watch the original movie on the dvd, then the additional material, and reflect...Arnold did incredibly in his life, becoming wealthy and famous and powerful...but that 28 year old kid had something that the 55 year old Arnold has given up. THATS why I love the original movie, for the cameraqderie, the just-breaking out of this weird 'sport' of bodybuilding and the god who made it all possible.