I had just turned twelve years old a month before this movie came out, and I had been enamored with atomic and thermonuclear weapons from about age 9 when I saw the movie Enola Gay.  My family and I watched this movie together, and I was awestruck by the devastation depicted on screen.  As a child of the eighties, I remember this movie setting the tone for a lot of anti-nuke movements, songs, art, and even more movies about the horrors of nuclear war.  I also remember thinking then, and now, that if this movie were even slightly true, why would the owners of such devastating devices ever use them?  Well, I believe that is the point of why the film was made.  I don't think that anyone in their right mind in 1982 would have ever called for unilateral disarmament in hopes that the other side would follow suit, and here's why:  Say I have a gun and you have a gun.  I pull the trigger to shoot you, and you have 30 seconds to pull your trigger and shoot me and neither of us can move from our position.  The first one to pull the trigger will die as well as the second one.  That's why this movie is important, because Ronald Reagan changed his mind about winning a limited nuclear exchange with the Soviet Union after seeing this movie.  He finally realized that the US could never win a nuclear war, and the only way to prevent one was to ensure MAD (Mutually Assured Destruction) by the proliferation of nuclear arms.  Pulling the trigger first didn?t matter, because the other guy was going to pull his trigger too.  I also remember how the Europeans were upset by our staging of nukes in their countries, but they never realized that it was those nukes that kept them safe.  The peaceniks were so scared of nuclear war, that they were ready to surrender to the Soviet Union and their (ultimately failed, thank you Mr. Reagan!) version of socialism (communism), but Ronnie?s nukes kept the Reds out of Western Europe and the Western hemisphere.  Frankly, I am glad that the US has nukes, and is ready to use them at any given time to defend our country, as well as our allies.  I am also glad that we have a no first strike policy to prevent the outbreak of nuclear war by some hothead a la Dr. Strangelove (my most favorite movie).  However, I would never want to see "the button" pushed, and millions people die horrifically.  So I continue to hope that the leaders of all countries who have nukes realize the dangers of an all out nuclear exchange, and adopt the same no first strike policy that the US has adopted.I had just turned twelve years old a month before this movie came out, and I had been enamored with atomic and thermonuclear weapons from about age 9 when I saw the movie Enola Gay.  My family and I watched this movie together, and I was awestruck by the devastation depicted on screen.  As a child of the eighties, I remember this movie setting the tone for a lot of anti-nuke movements, songs, art, and even more movies about the horrors of nuclear war.  I also remember thinking then, and now, that if this movie were even slightly true, why would the owners of such devastating devices ever use them?  Well, I believe that is the point of why the film was made.  I don't think that anyone in their right mind in 1982 would have ever called for unilateral disarmament in hopes that the other side would follow suit, and here's why:  Say I have a gun and you have a gun.  I pull the trigger to shoot you, and you have 30 seconds to pull your trigger and shoot me and neither of us can move from our position.  The first one to pull the trigger will die as well as the second one.  That's why this movie is important, because Ronald Reagan changed his mind about winning a limited nuclear exchange with the Soviet Union after seeing this movie.  He finally realized that the US could never win a nuclear war, and the only way to prevent one was to ensure MAD (Mutually Assured Destruction) by the proliferation of nuclear arms.  Pulling the trigger first didn?t matter, because the other guy was going to pull his trigger too.  I also remember how the Europeans were upset by our staging of nukes in their countries, but they never realized that it was those nukes that kept them safe.  The peaceniks were so scared of nuclear war, that they were ready to surrender to the Soviet Union and their (ultimately failed, thank you Mr. Reagan!) version of socialism (communism), but Ronnie?s nukes kept the Reds out of Western Europe and the Western hemisphere.  Frankly, I am glad that the US has nukes, and is ready to use them at any given time to defend our country, as well as our allies.  I am also glad that we have a no first strike policy to prevent the outbreak of nuclear war by some hothead a la Dr. Strangelove (my most favorite movie).  However, I would never want to see "the button" pushed, and millions people die horrifically.  So I continue to hope that the leaders of all countries who have nukes realize the dangers of an all out nuclear exchange, and adopt the same no first strike policy that the US has adopted.