Okay...quick show of hands!  How many Street Fighter video game nuts actually went to see this movie in theaters when it first came out back in '94?  (Yeah, me too...)
I'm sure there are quite a few of you who thought that it was one of the most disappointing experiences of your movie-going career.  I'll go ahead and include myself in that category.  I lost count of the number of times I not only groaned, but looked at my watch during this "film", waiting for the thing to finally end.  I'm a BIG fan of the Street Fighter video games (heck, I've owned every one at one time or another), but this...man alive, I'll tell ya.  Let me count the ways not only Street Fighter fans, but Van Damme fans, martial arts fans, and fans of action movies in general should stay away from it.  Now, granted, there is a LOT of talent in this flick; the late, great Raul Julia as the main villain, Bison (oh, sorry...M. Bison), Ming-Na (Joy Luck Club, ER) as Chun-Li (or Chun-Li ZANG...sigh), Wes Studi (Geronimo, Mystery Men) as Sagat, Grand L. Bush (In the Heat of the Night) as Balrog, etc., etc., and of course, Van Damme as Col. William (William...?) Guile.  But that's about all this movie has going for it.  You can forget what you know about the Street Fighter characters from the games, because here, ALL of their stories are different.  (Well, except for Bison's...)  How different?  Well, for starters, Ryu and Ken are small-time thieves, Chun-Li's not an Interpol operative, but a TV reporter (with Balrog and Honda as her camera crew...oy.), Dhalsim's a doctor who works for Bison...you get the idea; you'll just have to see the rest of the differences for yourself.
But that's not even what bothered me!  This is a movie that tries to pass itself off as a decent action/martial arts flick, and manages to do neither.  If the movie's called "Street Fighter", wouldn't you think there would have to be at least ONE STREET FIGHT in it?!  Well, apparently the director didn't think so.  It's painfully obvious that the ones responsible for this movie were doing nothing but trying to cash in on a video game franchise at the peak of its popularity.  They could've named this movie "Banana-Flavored Undershirts" and it wouldn't have made a bit of difference.  The action scenes are frightengly dull, the fights (what few there actually were) were poorly choreographed, and even while trying to add a couple of the characters' "special moves" to the mix, couldn't even get THAT right.  (One of my particular "favorites" is the "steel cage match" between Ryu and Vega, where the crowd actually chants "No weapons!" before the fight starts.  Gimme a break.)  The special effects are cheesy.  The acting is incredibly overdone, especially by Julia, which is disheartening considering what a superb actor he was.  It looks like at least he made the most of it, though.
The whole thing just has a bad look, sound, and taste to it.  (And don't even get me started on the way everyone pronounces "Ryu".  I literally cringed every time I heard it.)
The extras on the DVD don't save it, either...you can download any one of them off the net.
If you're a fan of the video games and for some reason haven't seen this movie, you're a better person because of it.  Even die-hard Van Damme fans will hang their heads at this one.
Don't...just don't.  You'll be glad you didn't.