For those of you who want to argue about these shows - May 9, 10 and 12. I will say this. The May 12th show was the best. They did not shoot that night because the DVD was done. They were relaxed and they came to play. How do I know? I was there. If you watch this DVD and see the rings around the stadium in red, thank Willie Williams for that addition. They were shut off on 5/12. As for the performance, I think the DVD does a great job for a very weak performance. On the first taped night, Bono could not sing. Maybe excited, but the rumor was he was sick. It seems as though this follows him recently to all show tapings. They get too pumped up and are not relaxed. Worried about how they come off.  I will say that his Boston voice was horrendous and so is this.

Now let's talk product. This DVD was not made for us 20+ year fans. It is made to get the younger iPod, internet savvy, weblogging generation on board to U2. Is it the full setlist from that night? No and who cares. The band rocked and this DVD made that night, what I thought was horrible evening, into palpable.

HTDAAB ain't the greatest album and nor was its predecessor. They are safe. And this band should not be safe. This is U2 who rants about the IRA; supports the solidarity people of Poland and now the African AIDS disaster. They should not create a safe DVD like this one. This band has yet to go out on a limb to make a great record like POP again. Why? Because they forced POP to market before it was completed and had to go on tour ill prepared. Then they got stuck in their own contraption and I think are still stuck there in a moment that they cannot get out of. I liked that they took the ZOO T.V. and Popmart risk, but do it again man!

I wished that there was more backstage interviews and scenes. Hell, let's meet the people that put together the tour. The U2 paid subscription site does a good job of that. Let's see the details of Edge's rig. Fill the DVD with alternate clips or videos that we cannot see on MTV.