I had read Ebert's 4 star review of "When Will I Be Loved" and since it was in limited release, I thought I'd go check it out. I had also heard about Neve's shower scene. I wasn't disappointed!

This is a very talky film and is definitely one of those where you can't check your brain at the door when you go in to see it. It is not a mindless action flick ... there's barely any serious action in it at all. It does contain violence though and it comes quickly and shockingly. You know something bad will happen but you don't know what it will be.

This movie is sort of a more hardcore version of "Indecent Proposal" and that particular film is actually mentioned in it by Campbell's boyfriend Ford. He uses it to introduce her to the idea of being with the billionaire so he can get the money.

This is without a doubt the best role I've ever seen Neve Campbell in. She is so graceful & elegant, you can hardly take your eyes off her.

Many times when she smiled in the movie, I found myself smiling with her. For us guys, we get a great first shot in the movie of Neve totally nude in the shower but that is a pretty much a bonus. The real treat is just looking at her face, watching her mannerisms and observing how she lays the trap for both of these men to fall in.

Ebert was right in stating that not many actresses could have played her character effectively.

I was quickly drawn in by the excellent character development in the first half of the film which is done so well, you can easily believe the events that unfold at the end. The music for the film starts out with various hip-hop then changes to a equal mix of violin music and then to piano. It fits the film very well.

The running time is a bit short though. The movie started at 9:40 pm and when the end credits rolled, I checked my watch to see that it was 10:58 pm. Official specs state that the film is only 81 minutes long.

I highly recommend this film! It is perfect for an evening viewing with the wife or girlfriend. And you won't be disappointed by Neve!