Got a gaggle over and need entertainment that won't compete with the glow and chatting of that sex-toy party? "Raising Helen" is available! Plot in snapshot: There once were three sisters. The eldest and youngest share a devil-may-care attitude envied and misunderstood by the middle sister. Youngest sister is Manhattan fashionista with size-2 anorexia and condoms in the bedside table. Eldest sister and husband die and SURPRISE! leave her three children to be raised by the sister in the studio apartment, not by the suburban floral-mom-on-roids. Challenges erupt for the new family, who begin to bond with the help of a hornball-with-a-heart-of gold preacher. New head of family gives up, then sees the light and is "raised." Halleluia.

The movie is just long enough for me to conclude that Kate Hudson, in the eponymous role, is a technically better actress than her mother, but lacks in the je-ne-se-blah-blah that made her mother famous. She smiles, she pouts, she twirls and cries when necessary, but never quite hits a depth of soul that convinces me those kids are better off with her.

John Corbet's "sexy man of god" has me thinking of Lutherans in ways never evoked by Garrison Keeler. As an actor, he's obviously taking advantage of his recent success as a sensitive love-interest in "Greek Wedding" and "Sex in the City" (since let's face it, he did not convince as a caste-loving real-estate developer in "Volcano"). But he cannot make this character real, as much as I want to believe that a sexy, sensitive minister has been deflecting female attention all these years just waiting for a ditsy, shallow hottie with an attitude problem and a penchant for bad lying.

Felicity Huffman is wasted in the minimalist dead beatific sister role. Joan Cusack, whom I adore, takes her part a touch too far - she has a hard time not making the Type-A "spent my youth raising your ditsy, shallow hottie ass" part a caricature. Her emoting made it difficult for me to empathize with her through most of the film.

However, back to the sex toy party. If you're not looking for surprises or depth or intellectual stimulation and want to be distracted for a little while by beautiful people in impossibly beautiful jobs and end the night saying, "Aw, that was so sweet, " then watch "Raising Helen." And buy a Lutheran Special.