I recently checked out the remastered DVD version of the Charlie Brown Thanksgiving, which was the third of the three holiday cartoons created back in the 1970s: the Christmas and the Halloween (Great Pumpkin) cartoons.

This short cartoon was drawn by creator Charles Schultz ("Sparky") and was like watching one of his newspaper strips come to life.  There was no grand message, no alien invasion, no potty humor or Steven Spielberg-ish special effects.

A charming story of Charlie Brown getting talked into having a dinner that Peppermint Patty forced herself to be invited.  And a bunch of her friends, too.  Rather than talk her out of it ("you can't talk Peppermint Patty into anything", he complains) he decides to make a Thanksgiving dinner for them before going to his grandmother's house for their family thanksgiving.

Snoopy's fight with the lawn chair was not part of the story but was fun to watch.  The shocked look on the kids' faces when they were served buttered toast, pretzel sticks, jellybeans and a large helping of popcorn was priceless.

A great story for little kids.  I'm afraid Pixar has made me jaded, sadly.

Another interesting story is Peanut's take on The Mayflower Story.  Sure, historically inaccurate but fun to see and get a flavor of what Thanksgiving is really all about.  It's not about the food, it's about the people (if there is a message here, that is it).

Finally, a trailer promoting several other DVDs coming out soon and a "making of" that has the original child voice actors, now grown up, discussing their experiences with Lee Mendelssohn and so on.

Overall, a nice package.  Clean, bright color, great sound and that awesome Vince Giraldi musical score will take you back.

Recommended.

[From Wiki:]

Film Credits
Written and Created by Charles M. Schulz
Directed by Bill Melendez and Phil Roman
Produced by Lee Mendleson and Bill Melendez
Original Score Composed and Performed by Vince Guaraldi
Arranged and Conducted by John Scott Trotter
Animators: Bob Carlson, Sam Jaimes, Bror Lansing, Bill Littlejohn, Don Lusk, Al Pabian, Frank Smith, Bob Matz, Rod Scribner, Patricia Joy, Irven Spence, Ray Patterson, Kenneth Muse, Pete Burness, Hank Smith