First, I must say that it's kind of funny how many "reviews of the DVD" there are before it even came out. Still, like everyone else, I want to have my say about the movie, even before seeing the DVD.
I'm not a fan of the comics, in the sense of knowing them well and buying them. I might have bought a couple, and watched a few episodes of the animated series. What I saw I liked, but it was some time ago, and when I came to see this movie, I was missing a lot of stuff, even basic stuff, like what Rogue's power is. But I knew enough to know who most of the characters were.
The movie, IMO, was meant mainly as an exposition to next ones. It looked like this, although this feeling wasn't as strong as I got when I saw Spawn. There was still enough of a story and conclusion here.
I liked it that it's not a special effect movie. Yes, there are great special effects, but they are so well integrated, that they just look natural. The only time I felt an effect was a little forced was when Jean Gray shows her telekinesis power when she's working on wolverine. But generally the effects were so well done, that they did their job of fleshing an impossible world without drawing attention to themselves, and there was enough story to keep you engaged and not thinking of them (unlike, for example, Star Wars Episode 1).
What I really liked about this movie is that it's deep and interesting enough. It goes way beyond just action, or even character interaction (which is also done pretty well). The initial scene, with Magneto's parents being taken to be cremated by the Nazis was pretty strong, IMO (a friend I saw the movie with thought it was a bit too much to put a reference to the holocaust in a blockbuster movie, but I disagree). It puts in an interesting light the attempts to have mutations "licensed", and allows some understanding of Magneto.
The idea of the character of Rogue is great. A girl who can't touch anyone - that's true agony. And then there's Wolverine with his lost memories. This really has the making of a great story, which is why, as the title says, it makes me interested in reading more about these characters.
The film also does well in capturing the sexy spirit of many current comics. Famke Janssen and Halle Berry are certainly very attractive women, as is Rebecca Romjin-Stamos. I guess that the men are not bad looking, either, but I'm not the best judge of that. I did feel that both Magneto and Storm were a little, well, smaller than I imagined them from my previous encounters with the X-Men series. But that wasn't a real problem for me.
That about sums it up. The main reason I don't give this movie 5 stars is because it was an introductory movie. If the second movie manages to keep to the standards set by this one, then it should be great.