I agree about the lack of relationship development, other than that i think it was a good movie and strongly represented its genre.

Maybe I'm a sucker for romance, but I think they could have enhanced the scenes between Diane Lane and Billy Burke just a little because, as you said, they are both definitely workaholics. I know the kind of character they were trying to go for with the detective, but he was a little too numb towards Diane Lane, especially considering he knew her husband and said that he remembered seeing her (with a kind  "i never forget a pretty face" nuance, but I could be reading too far into that).  I checked out the DVD to see if there were any deleted scenes, but there aren't.  And even though the film is jam packed, they could definitely have tacked a few minutes on for further personal interaction, even between Diane and her daughter and mother.

I guess I am most interested in the Diane Lane/Billy Burke relationship because I honestly cant believe how gruff he was with her and abruptly he would leave her desk after serious conversations.  And I guess there must have been some sort of 'change' in his attitude towards her when he came to see her in her hotel room.  He was quite respectable, but he obviously slept in the same bed that she did (over the covers) when there was another twin bed right next to hers. That was, of course, never explored.  And what ticked me off THE MOST was that it ended before he could come find her in the basement.  Obviously I'm thrilled that she killed the guy herself and showed all those people on the net who was boss, but we didnt get to see them lock eyes or exchange ANY kind of emotion (i.e. i did what i had to do or i was majorly worried about you and im glad that youre alive).  Obviously many will say thats cliche of me to want to see, but even if it didnt go down like that, there needed to be more closure, even if it was seeing her daughter again.

What disappointed me more than that, though, was that she GOT BACK IN THE CAR AND DID NOT CHECK THE BACK SEAT!  Really?  Not only would I not go near the car in the first place, but I would definitely check the back seat before i even thought of going in.  I feel that they could have had her abducted without making her look so stupid.  Like a chase scene along the bridge or something.

Not that I belong in Hollywood directing or writing professional reviews or anything, just my thoughts! :)

All in all, the subject of this movie was far more profound and deeper than Saw (which it is compared to), it is not the slightest bit campy.  In a couple of ways its a 'one of a kind'. The side kick (Colin Hanks) is well developed and even though you figure out hes going to get killed pretty early on, he lasted more of the movie than i thought he would.  And I guess its also deviates because it pairs up two attractive, single workaholics who dont even share a smile, let alone touch, the whole movie (Im not kidding).  So these are a few of the elements that set it apart from other movies it could be compared to (ie. Saw, The Net and I think its a little like Feardotcom too).

It is special!

If you've made it this far, thanks for reading!