Alien, the first movie in the saga, very good piece of art! Nice acting, the "mistery" creature, which keeps not fully revealed until near the end of the movie, even after the movie end, there is some mystery around the aspect of the creature; and excellent Extra Features of the DVD, trailers, artwork, interviews, etc.
Aliens, also, one of the best Alien movies, a little advanced for its time, I believe its one of the best sci-fi sequels of all time! The Alien is back, and now with the rest of the batch, including the huge Alien Queen nesting in a human Colony. This DVD also has very good extra features, including a great interview with James Cameron.
So, If they are so good, why not five stars? Keep reading...
Alien 3, a regular movie, when I saw it the first time in the movies, I thought it was a real dissapointment, you have to be a real alien-fan to find its value, which I still believe its very poor; hey! If someone would have made this movie with another name and another creature, it could be a stand-alone film. I think this one does not contribute to the whole story as any of the other 3 movies do! Its contribution is very poor, and there are some details that does not match: you never find out when the alien queen puts that egg in the capsule, and you never find out where the acid which breaks the capsule (and killing Newt) comes from!, the extra features [are bad]! it only have the trailers of all movies.
Finally, Alien Resurrection, is more an action movie than a suspense/horror movie, the acting is very good, the SFX and the story rocks, again we have some aliens, a queen and a new-born creature on the loose! But, to the shame of the rest of the story, the original Alien bloodline is altered by the human hand during the cloning of Ellen Ripley, and they even leave a door open for a fifth Alien movie! The biggest lack of this DVD is again the extra features, it just have the trailers (again) and a featurette which returns a little respect to extra features.
Well, if you are a real alien-fan, now you know what you are up against!