The only James Bond movie I had not seen until fairly recently, "Licence to Kill" certainly does count as one of the better  entries in the series. With Timothy Dalton in his second go-round as the  erstwhile British superspy, I did not find this Bond movie as  "dark" or as much of a departure from "formula" as  others have perceived it. The Bond wit is still there, though it may be a  bit drier and less hokey than usual. Also, any resemblance to "Miami  Vice" seems purely incidental and superficial. However, I will concede  that the initial setting in Florida, the drug theme, and the time period  seem rather coincidental, and that there are still some interesting  variations on conventional Bond formula.
In all his various guises,  Bond's C.I.A. pal Felix Leiter (David Hedison) never received so much as a  scratch. This time, however, drug lord Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi) does the  dubious honor of wreaking terrible vengeance against the recently-married  Leiter for interfering with his operations. This precipitates Bond's own  scheme of revenge against Sanchez and his motley army of minions.
Bond  receives little support for his vendetta, which prompts the revocation of  his licence to kill. He does receive some help from Pam Bouvier (Carey  Lowell), a contact of Leiter's. Although not one who comes immediately to  mind on a short list of the best-known "Bond women," Bouvier  really deserves to be on it. Except when pining for Bond, she is certainly  no victim, and as a nice change of pace ends up having to bail Bond's  tuckus out of danger. Initially sent to fetch Bond from his officially  unsanctioned vendetta, Q (Desmond Llewellyn) ends up playing a more active  role than usual to help him. He and Bouvier develop an interesting  chemistry, mutually flustered by Bond's actions.
"Licence to  Kill" also draws some parallels between Bond and Sanchez. Both value  loyalty above all else and view money as little more than a disposable  tool, rather than an end in itself. Could this be the most subversive of  the Bond movies, and maybe even the most satirical? Released at the end of  the 1980s, it parodies all that the decade represents. The obnoxious Yuppie  jabbering about the financial solvency of Sanchez's operations pokes fun at  the money-grabbing obsession associated with that time period. (In the end,  though, Sanchez finally concedes to his advice and decides to "get rid  of the overhead.") Wayne Newton's portrayal of a flamboyant  "spiritual" leader also satirizes the televangelists who were  being exposed for their hypocrisy en masse during that  time.
"Licence to Kill" may not appeal to some Bond purists,  hoping for comedy Germans or Belgians plotting world domination in their  elaborate lairs (which is actually an exaggeration if one looks at the Bond  films as a whole). A drug dealer may seem rather mundane for a Bond  villain, but one imagines that Bond is not always chasing down villains of  the same stature as Blofeld or Goldfinger. Although many Bond movies have  that certain camp appeal, "Licence to Kill" provides an  alternative perspective that some 007 fans may wish to examine.