This is a great film if you loved the original. I haven't seen the original since the 70's, so I can only recall the highlights from it. Crispin Glover is outstanding as Willard. He handles the white rats (Socrates) like he really loves him as a best friend. He even gives Socrates a kiss before hiding him in his desk drawer at work. There is a great a scene of him rescuing Socrates from a glue rattrap with vegetable oil in the bathroom late at night, while his elderly mother is banging on the door asking yet again if there are rats. He makes up random excuses, but nothing satisfies her until Willard can only think to answer her that he's sick and going "potty". She isn't satisfied and still wants in, declaring she's still his mother and wants to see it. Willard rolls his eyes and sighs with exasperation as he pries the rat loose from the trap, wraps it in a towel, hides it and walks his mother to her room. She notices something on his hand and he tells her it's soap. She cries out that it's cooking oil and tells him he's too old for that business and he needs to get a girl. Willard is next seen with the white rat perched on his hand, combing its fur and naming him Socrates...his substitute girlfriend. That is until a pretty new temp named Cathryn at the office takes up interest in him. Crispin and Laura Harring is a delightful mismatched pair. She reaches out to him so tenderly and Willard hasn't had anyone be that kind to him since his father died. Crispin plays this uncomfortable, yet nice, new attention from a young female with lovely awkwardness.
Crispin is a believable advisory of the huge rat "Ben," even in moments when Ben can't be seen, just traces of Ben's defiance against him. Like when Willard brings a silver parrot head walking cane to bed with him to protect himself against the huge rat. He wakes to find Ben has chewed up the entire wood portion of the cane, leaving the silver parrot head next to him (very God Father part 1)...Willard looked horrified. When he turns his head and finds Ben sitting on the other side of the bed, he is terrified...than panicked when he can't figure out how he got into his room, because Willard went to a lot of trouble to "Ben--proof" it.

The set that was built for Willard and his Mother's home is sumptuous and rich with detail. It looks like they found a 100-year-old mansion to film this in. Gorgeous wood beam ceilings down stairs with high ceilings (cathedral ceilings in the foyer and his father's study). Wood wainscoting almost as tall as Crispin's shoulders thru out the entire set. Entire rooms paneled in a beautiful pattern of wood (including a bathroom), oak like wood floors and wall light switches that look ancient. Also a huge burnt umber glass chandler with one light bulb burnt out over the foyer is a subtle character in itself. Stained glass windows through out the set, wallpaper of someone's ingenious imagination, a beautiful enamel hand painted anniversary clock is used a few times in scenes and in one scene to show Willard standing at the bottom his staircase, too scared to move over a period of 10 hours very affectively. There is also a huge creepy basement where a lot of action takes place with the rats. Art direction went above and beyond for this film and it pays off so well.

R.Lee Ermey is the boss from hell in the character Mr. Martin and the art direction helps show his contempt for his lowly employee Willard Stiles, whom his father use to own half the company. As we see Willard go to work for our first time, he must pass thru a set of huge gates with the name Martin in shiny, clean letters above the name Stiles in old rusted letters. Willard is 20 minutes late for work and is he going to hear about it! I love that Mr. Martin has a huge brass cheese wedge paperweight on his desk. "The big cheese," nice touch. If you know the original, you'll know Ben causes mutiny...not completely Ben's fault. Glen Morgan pays tribute to Hitchcock's film "The Birds" when we see Mr.Martin sitting at his desk in his dark office late at night looking up non-work related web sites. As he is absorbed in the material on his monitor, rats start to line up on the back of his sofa in the dimness. I'm personally terrified of rodents, I guess that's partly why I like this film. The thrill of watching something terrifying to me.

The commentary is a pleasure with Director Glen Morgan, Producer James Wong and Actors Crispin Glover and at brief moments R.Lee Ermey. It's fun, informative...they are down to earth and talk about everything from the rats and their handlers, the set, real life stories and experiences that inspired things in the film, specific scenes and what was going on during them, in-between takes, cgi rats, Glen's family, Crispin talking about having to cry real tears and his "circle of death" from drama class is funny. It's loaded with terrific moments. I've watched it three times with the commentary since it arrived about a month ago; it's entertaining.