I say this in the title simply because Depp steals the show.  Everyone, they all did a great job, didn't come close to Depp's portral of Agent Sands.  He is the movie and everyone else is along for the ride.
OK let me explain the plot.  This person is double crossing this person, who in turn wants to be with this person and to have this one thing at the end.  But this other person double crosses this person because they have a diffrent agenda while the lead only has revenge to look foward to.  This complet different person hires this other group of people kill this other group of people, only for things to backfire.
With me so far?  So the plot is little bit muddled.  Who care!?!?!  It's an action movie.  And the action flies high and fast.  At the core Banderes and Hayak sees most of the action largly due to some rather crazy and over-the-top flashbacks.  The action is where this movie is at.  This is the only place you can see someone change directions in the air due to a well placed gunshot blast to the chest.  Very nice.
This isn't to say the script is completly bad.  The movie has its share of great lines and dialoge, just that takes a back sent to the action.
The disc is very nicely done.  (A preview of Hellboy is even on there.  One of my must sees for the next year.)On it you will also find:
Commentary by director Robert Rodriguez
Music and sound design track with commentary
Ten Minute Flick School
Ten Minute Cooking School
Eight deleted scenes with optional director's commentary
Inside Troublemaker Studios
The Anti-Hero's Journey
Film Is Dead: An Evening with Robert Rodriguez
The Good, the Bad, and the Bloody: Inside KNB FX
DVD-ROM: Test your wits in the shooting gallery 
Rodriguez always has some of the best commentaries.  Given inside stories and how to's he is always a joy to hear.  I would've like to see a DTS track on it since the Superbit Desperado kicks it into the next level, but I really can't complain.  The DD 5.1 mix on Desperado set a bench mark with DVD sound and this one quickly follows suit.
This is a good action movie and a great conclusion to the "El" Trilogy.