I actually give this movie two separate ratings. First, solely as a cinematic and artistic story I give the movie a 4, maybe even a 4.5 but as some of the other reviews have pointed out, there are some very large historical inaccuracies. Here is my review on each:

Movie:

As a movie "The Hurricane" is excellent. Denzel Washington does a great job as do the other actors in this film. It is definitely a tear jerker and helps portray racism which WAS very prevalent during the civil rights movement era. The movie is entertaining and enjoyable, the problem lies with the claim that it is a "true story." The best part of the movie is that it exposes horrible corruption,but when that corruption is possibly false, the movie loses credibility. If it had a different title and was described simply as a story, none of these issues would exist.

The Facts:

I am not a lawyer, or a judge, or anything that has to do with crime. I am an officer in the US Army and hopefully someday a business executive. Therefore, I can not give any "facts" regarding the case. Having said that, there is much controversy over what actually happened. It is definitely true that the image of Rubin Carter in real life differs from what is depicted in the movie as well as the image of his friend, John Artis. What the movie doesn't say is that Carter WAS in fact a criminal before he ever was accused of committing the triple murder, one of his crimes being the brutal beating of three people. Additionally, Carter was court marshaled 4 times and was kicked out of the Army after serving only approx 21 months.  After released from prison, friend John Artis was arrested again and convicted for dealing drugs (cocaine.)

Artis and Carter were never declared innocent of the murders, they were released from prison due to an error in the judicial process. I do not know whether Carter and Artis are guilty or innocent and I encourage anyone who becomes interested to do their own research. Be careful what site you get your info from..."graphic witness" for example has been accused of being racist. Check the article about Carter on Wikipedia, it seems more reliable and is from a more trust worthy source.

Lastly, we need to remember that there in fact was much racism in this country at the time and to some degree there still is. Often people don't like to admit it. The truth is that racism may or may not have played a part in Carter's trial and he may be innocent, but he may also be guilty. Either way the movie definitely has some factual errors but hey, it's Hollywood, I mean, the true story of U571 is that the British stole the Enigma machine, unlike the film, the American's were no where to be found.

Take Hollywood with a grain of salt and enjoy the movie as it is a great piece of entertainment and features some excellent actors giving heart touching performances.