The Color Purple is a roller coaster of emotion.  Opression, degradation, and racism are present throughout the film.  Celie and Nettie are just two young girls playing joyfully in a field of purple as the movie begins.  You then realize that Celie is pregnant.  Celie is pregnant by the incestuous act of her father who then takes the baby girl away moments after birth.  Celie is then bartered off to `Mister'(Danny Glover) by the father who kept Nettie because she was too young to be married.  Later in the story Nettie goes to Celie's household trying to escape the father and gets put in the scope of  `Mister'. Celie begs `Mister' to allow Nettie to stay with them and the wish is granted.  The sinister ways of `Mister' come about as he tries to swirl `Nettie' into the bushes.  The rape is thwarted as Nettie takes care of his `business' and `Mister' comes crawling out the bushes.

Sofia (Oprah Winfrey) shows the determination of the human spirit.  Sofia (Oprah Winfrey) says `Hell No' when asked to be the maid for Miss Millie.  The Mayor (Husband of Miss Millie) slaps Sofia down and the rebuttal gets Sofia eight years in jail. The Mayor follows eight years of jail with a release and Sofia is put into the service of Miss Millie.  Miss Millie shows some white sympathy for the coloreds as she tells Sofia she's going to take her home on Christmas day and let her stay all day with her children.  Miss Millie can't get the car out of reverse and nearly suffers a nervous breakdown trying to make her exit.  Sofia tries to overcome the circumstances and stay with her children a bit longer but Miss Millie cuts the visit short.

Shug (Margaret Avery) singing in melody to the church choir as she walked from the jook joint to church was very powerful.  Shugs' reconciliation with her father was monumental.

Good overcomes evil as Celie escapes her bonds from `Mister' with Shug.  Alberts' (Danny Glover) love for Shug has always meant pain for Celie.  Shug singing "Miss Celie's Blues" is great...and the acts of compassion that follow between Shug and Celie are awesome.  The `Lesbian' acts are not conceived as being lesbian at all but as a means to show Celie that a person can be loved and not just used as a toilet for sex.

 `Mister'(Danny Glover) shows that he's not completely ice cold at the end of this masterpiece but I don't want to be a spoiler.

This is a great movie and I'd give it a 4 star rating out of 5.