Finally another AC/DC compilatin besides family jewels, no disrespect to that DVD but after watching it I found myself feeling like there was more to be seen. Sience i'm a hard core AC/DC fan, i've seen alot of "rare" AC/DC footage and proformances, but I was surprised when I found myself liking this DVD more and more as I kept serching around it. There are so many things I like about this DVD, and a few things i'm not so pleased with.

The good: First off the Bon disc is awesome, lots of great rare things on here, like there 1976 proformance of "Baby, please don't go" by far the best on the DVD.

  Another great addition that I think is long over due, was the release of several "Rock goes to college" proformances (Which, in my opinion, is there best gig with Bon Scott). The bonus features are amazing, one great one was the Bon Scott interview form 1977, uncensored!
All 14 minutes of it finally realesed on DVD. The Dirty Deed promo was great, shockingly I had never seen it before.

  Brian's disc was great aswell, but my favorite thing about it are the bonus features, when I saw it had them proforming with the rolling stones I fegured it was the on I had seen many times before, but shockingly I had never seen this one. It was great! Gone shotin' was good too, and the Brian Angus interview was really good.

the bad: The Bon disc was, for some reason, shorter than the Brian, which doesn't make much sense because there were alot of "Rock Goes to college" songs that were missing. Which brings me to my next point even if they didn't want to put it on disc one, there was tons of room on disc 3 for the rest of the show, which I would have liked more than live at
Houston summit(Which didn't contain the whole gig), even though it was a great show, it's no "Rock goes to College."

  Another problem I have is that on the bonus disc they left out the original "Jailbreak" music video, that was filmed in Bons backyard (sound pretty important to me).

Overall it's a very good DVD and I would suggeust it to hardcore fans (Who probably already have it), and the folks just getting into AC/DC, with out having to try and serch down videos to see a good show, from the Bon years.- Chuck