COLD PREY is a Norwegian slasher film that fails to bring anything new to the genre. I agree with previous comments by other reviewers who noted that something was lost due to the sub-titles, (it is a dubbed foreign film). For example, the explanation concerning the background of the killer is compromised as English viewers were unable to read the Norwegian newspaper headlines. The film also stumbled as it took a while to get rolling. Once the killing began, there were still a few of those obligatory, "why did they do that?" scenes, which detract from the credibility of the story. On the plus side though, there was some decent character development. Nonetheless, my biggest complaint is that the film lacked both gore and especially inventive kills. Gore and Inventive kill scenes carry the day in this genre and BOTH were conspicuously absent. I can even do without the splatter, had the "execution" (pun intended) of the carnage been more imaginative. When neither are present, you have a recipe for disaster, regardless of how well a job the film did in other departments. Another reviewer commented that it was as if COLD PREY wished not to offend anyone, thereby avoiding "gore alley" so to speak. Seems so. Although COLD PREY features fine cinematography, a competent score plus a good cast who played it straight; I still caught myself watching the clock. Caution: Spoiler ahead...The obligatory female lead knocking off the bad guy only works a few times then the novelty of it wears off unless there is one helluva script, (which was lacking). I also doubt that the (small utility knife?) would have significantly punctured the sub-arctic outer wear of the killer to inflict the incapacitating wound suggested. This scene was not credible. There was also a flashback "twist" featured at the end that I am still grappling with. Another marginal, formulaic outing, however, it was punctuated with some nice production values which are almost always lacking in such films. In the final analysis, there is nothing new here and the film was definitely not "scary" in my opinion. Of possible interest to die hard slasher film fans and horror film newbies.