when you were a kid, did you ever pretend you had super powers?  or did you wish you had super powers?  if so, this movie is definitely for you.  
the story is of a modern man (the bruce willis character) who, unbeknownst to him, has "super powers."  it takes the a train wreck and the persistance of a fanatical comic book collector (samual l. jackson's character) to bring him to grips with his uncanny powers.  
what's so impressive about this movie is how we are made to understand the mental dilemmas of the main character, we feel him learning to accept that his powers are real, and just becasue he has them doesn't mean he has to be an unfalliable "superhero".  the story is far from "campy," which is usually the case with this genre of movie.  and, as usual, m. night shyamalan (writer of 6th sense) is once again able to throw his trademarked "curveball" at the end of the movie.
however, don't assume that because you loved 6th sense, you'll love this movie... this movie got only moderate reviews at best, for one good reason: it wasn't targeted to a large audience like 6th sense.  in the 6th sense, we had a kid as a main character, whom we all fell in love with, the relationship with his mother, and the dying relationship (pun intended) between the child psychologist and his wife, and the friendship between the kid and the psychologist.  this appealed to a large audience, and especially helped to attract a female following.  unbreakable has none of that.  there is a kid -- the lead character's son -- but there's little character development. there's also no strong female character in this movie. no, this movie targets a different audience all together:  basically, a male audience who may or may not have read comic books as kids, or always wished that they were superheros like batman or superman. 
overall, i personally loved this movie.  but then, i'm part of the targeted audience (i used to pretend i was half-robot, half-human with super strength).  i do indeed recommend this movie.