This stellar portrayal of two women, a mother and daughter, who spend their days in a run down house and are ironically aunt and cousin to Jackie O, displays documentary film-making at its very best.  Although much has been said about the film, the focus always tends to emphasize the sordid living conditions that Edith Bovier Beale and her unmarried daughter, Little Edie inhabit, in an old estate in Easthampton, New York.  Their house has been condemned by officials in Easthampton, and they live with cats and raccoons, but they don't give a damn about it.  They are virtual recluses in their upscale community, "full of nasty Republicans."  However, the film is not about the squalor that most of us would balk at in conventional situations. Their surroundings are only a backdrop and metaphor for the lost opportunities, and isolation that the women are subjected to as societal outcasts.  Whether this is by choice, or due to their eccentricities is a mixed bag, but "Big Edie" and "Little Edie" are such magnetically charged women, it is fair to say that they are their own superstars within the world they have created.
Much of the film's pathos is magnified by the mother and daughter relationship.  Little Edie, once a gorgeous, brilliant young woman feels she has been forced to sacrifice her life and a potential career as an entertainer, to look after her mother. Big Edie, once a veritable beauty in her day, was written out of her father's will for her aspirations to become a singer, and after her divorce retreated to her sea-side estate to spend the rest of her days.  It is apparent that both women are extremely co-dependent, but in spite of their inherent needs to look after each other, Little Edie is full of resentment over the arrangement. She points this out again and again, letting us know that when she is with her mother, she doesn't feel like a woman, but rather a little girl.  However, both have clearly been dominated by strict, critical male figures in their pasts, and they do enjoy a sense of freedom and independence in their solitude, even if it comes at the expense of their abilitiy to inhabit the outside world.  Little Edie insists throughout the film, that she must get out and move to New York, "My days at Grey Gardens are limited" she tells the Maysles' camera crew, who record every nuance with objectivity, and a keen eye for descriptive detail of both women and their amazing story.
This is a complex narrative, and it unfolds with intelligent, and often hilarious dialogue from both Big and Little Edie.  Little Edie's sense of fashion is truly "revolutionary" and has been copied and imitated by several designers.  Big Edie is more staid, she has "had her cake, eaten it, chewed it, masticated it" while Little Edie emerges as a thwarted Goddess, who feels she never even got a bite of the cake, so to speak.  She proclaims herself to be the "greatest dancer in the world" yet alone in the house with her mother, their is no other audience for her to creatively conquer.  We watch her, and we are  captivated by her, and we accept what she tells us, because she is so emotive and honest.
Fiction could never fully capture the beauty and the sadness that this film evokes.  Although we love to laugh with it, it is also a poignant epic, magnifying  moments in Big Edie and Little Edie's lives with uncanny depth and awareness of the subjects.  It is simultaneoulsy lyrical, funny and sad.  Those who view it and do not understand that this is a masterpiece, are missing the point of this work.  And what is that point?  I believe it circles around the choices that are made for us, the choices we do make, and the choices we don't make, and how our fates are are affected by these events.
I give "Grey Gardens" six stars, and I hope you enjoy it.  It is a film that can be viewed several times, and there is always something new to discover every time it is screened.