This movie is absolutely fantastic.  It is so perfect and exciting movie.  For the story, it talks about Brad Pitt (John Smith) and Angelina Jolie (Jane Smith) is a couple that have been married for 6 years and things appear to be normal. But it appears that things are changing, they might be in trouble.  So, they are seeing a marriage counselor. However, nobody including themselves knows is that they are professional assassins. However, they are both assigned by their employers to kill the same person. When they each try to take out the target, they get in each other's way and blow the job. Now they are told to go after the person who made them miss the target. And when they learn about each other, they try to take each other out.  After that, they get back each other and decide to get rid of their enemies in the end.  For the story, it is quite perfect.  It is well written.  For the acting, all of them are so good.  For Brad Pitt, he has his very cool acting attitude like usual.  This movie is no exception.  So, when he appears in every movie that I watched, he never disappoints me.  For Angelina Jolie, she is actually quite a very good actress.  For this movie, she is the bomb as well as Brad Pitt.  For the direction, it is going well in this movie.  It has no doubt about it.  For the visuals, it is very good.  The scene of Angelina Jolie jumps off from the roof in the building.  It is fantastic.  The scene of the house-explosion scene in the middle, it is good.  Also, the scene of the final explosive battle in the store during the night, it is absolutely fantastic too.  So, the visuals are very good from head to toe.  For the music, it is very good and has a very exciting feeling.  For the sound effects, it is very tense between scenes to scenes.  Also, not only mention a lot of action scenes in this movie, the love scenes between Brad and Angelina are very good.  For example, the scene when they first met in Columbia.  It was so romantic for me.  This movie is so much fun.  It does filled with action and romance.  It is one of the best 2005 summer movie.