Quentin Tarintino was a no-name when this movie hit the theaters. I don't remember hearing much press about it when it was released, but I rented it when it first hit the shelves and I was absolutely BLOWN AWAY. This is such a great movie.
The story starts off when Clarence (Christian Slater) and Alabama (Patricia Arquette) meet at a movie theater showing a kung-fu marathon. They spend the night together *nudge, nudge* wink, wink* and realize that they are in love with eachother and have been brought together by fate. Not a pair to let this moment pass, they get married less than 12 hours later. But, it's not quite happily ever after just yet. Alabama was a hooker (employeed for three days)and when Clarence goes to pick up some of her clothes, he gets into a fight with her pimp (Gary Oldman) and ends up killing him. He takes off (accidently leaving his drivers license behind) with a suitcase of Alabama's clothes. When he gets back to his wife - surprise! - it's not a suitcase full of clothes, it's a suitcase filled to the brim with cocaine. They decide to take advantage of the situation and drive out to LA to see Clarence's friend, Dick Richie (Micheal Rappaport)to see if he has any Hollywood connections who would buy half a million dollars worth of cocaine. Of course he does. But the plot gets more tangled as rightful owners of the cocaine (Tony Soprano, Christopher Walken, and others) want their drugs back and try to track them down & the cops are suddenly involved. 
This movie is full of everything - romance, humor, action, drugs, rock-n-roll, sex. It doesn't get much better than this. Christian Slater is great & Patricia Arquette is the cutest thing ever. The movie is FULL of famous actors (those listed above plus Dennis Hopper, Val Kilmer - who plays the voice of Clarence's alter-Elvis-ego, Brad Pitt)
The unrated directors cut is great because there are scenes added to the movie that weren't in the orginal - more graphic violence, drug use, language, and sex.
You will not be disappointed by this movie. It's a must-see and a must-own!