Okay, here's the thing. You have to see this movie. If you're a fan of Richard Kelly's "Donnie Darko", if you're a Sci-Fi Fan, if you're just a fan of films in general, you need to see this film. There are just a few things you should do first.

1) Get a little toasted. Score a couple joints (And I'd like to say here that I absolutely am not encouraging or condoning the use of illegal drugs. I'm just saying.), bum a Vicodin from Uncle Sal with the back pain, buy a 6 pack. If you're into yoga do some deep breathing exercises and get a good oxygen buzz going. Whatever. Trust me, it'll help.

2) You probably shouldn't see this movie alone because you're going to need someone to vent to. So invite some friends over. If you have a friend that especially hates sci-fi, be sure invite them because, well, it's always good to torture your friends when you get the chance. Just don't be upset when people start throwing things at your television.

3) Leave the volume on your set alone. You know how sometimes when you're watching a movie and you can't quite figure out what's going on and you can't quite understand what the heck people are talking about? So you turn up the volume up? Don't bother. It's not going to help.

And,

4) Don't expect a payoff. And I know, generally when you watch a movie, even if it's a bad movie, there's some kind of payoff at the end. Some emotionally or intellectually satisfying moment that makes the journey worthwhile. But this is "Southland Tales" and it's just not going to happen. Just let it go.

That said,

You still need to watch this movie. Partly because of the people in it. Yes, Justin Timberlake and Sarah Michelle Gellar and The Rock are all there but Jon Lovitz is also in it. John Larroquette is in it. Mandy Moore is in it. Kevin Smith is in it. Even that kind of bald guy from "The Princess Bride" is in it. We have to of course assume that nobody (Seriously.) read a script before they signed on but they're all there and they're fun to watch. And you have to watch this movie partly because it's the sort of movie that if you're flipping through channels on the TV and you run across it you have no choice but to stop and watch. Because pretty much any arbitrary 15 minutes of this movie is utterly fascinating. The sets, the characters, the execution, even the dialogue will all suck you in. It is, in parts, brilliant and  it's only when you string two and a half hours worth of these 15 minute segments together that you get a movie that makes you want to pull your hair out. Because there really is no coherent plot and the story, such as it is, doesn't make sense. Richard Kelly tries to do great things here and fails. He fails gloriously, which, I suppose, is the way you should fail, but he still fails. So buy a case of beer, have the gang over and settle in for one of the most amazingly frustrating movies you've ever seen. You'll be better for it in the end.