In 1964 this special one time concert in Santa Monica presented a series of the biggest acts in the country for this performance before a group of enthusiasitc (and racially diverse) young people. You get acts from all the many tributaries of the pop music world of the time from British Invasion acts such as Gerry & The Pacemakers to Motown acts such as Smokey & The Miracles. Jan and Dean are the hosts and...well it's hard not to mention this DVD without mentioning how important one act is to this out of them all:James Brown. This performance alone captured James Brown at an important crossroads of his career. On the cusp of his career defining 1962 Apollo concert he is performing a tiny version of the song lineup from that concert along with his then big hit "Out Of Seat" with his Famous Flames. It's classic Brown in every respect. Another thing you'll notice about this DVD is you get to see the various pop and/or British invasion acts perform alongside the soul and rock n roll acts that inspired them in the first place. It must have been an honor to have Chuck Berry performing alongside Gerry & The Pacemakers,who actually switch places on one of Chuck Berry's tunes along with The Rolling Stones and even Beach Boys (whom Berry would later sue) all showing how much the acts influenced the other. And there there was not awkwardness: everyone was just giving their best and entertaining a watching and waiting crowd. You even here the same thing between Jan & Dean and The Beach Boys as even they are,by today's standards "copying" eachothers songs with minor changes but being so closely associated it's hardly noticable. You also see The Supremes,at this point getting their very first taste of pop stardom perform here as well. The Miracles may not be as known for this particularly song today but their performance of "Mickey's Monkey" really ignited a dance sensation with this crowd. The dancing,by the way ranges from typical 60's go-go styles to....what sometimes looks more like abstract modern movements. Marvin Gaye and The Rolling Stones,themselves both in their lesser known pre-superstardom years both give amazing performances here. You also see the lesser know band The Barbarians-many of whom,by 1964 standards had extremely long hair and a very outrageous almost proto punk/garage band image so you see where the future was going on all fronts. In the end everyone comes out for a song and dance encore;even JB gets his groove on with some of the more silly go-go dancers to "show 'em how it's REALLY done" as he begins to showcase his famous fancy footwork. It's wonderful this is again available to see and anyone who hasn't taken a look at it already is strongly advised to do so.