I remember seeing this movie 20 years ago this summer when I was living in Los Angeles and being so taken by it that I sat through it three more times  that night.  The soundtrack haunted me and like Richard Collier in the  movie after he discovers Elise McKenna's picture in the Hall of History, I  could not sleep.  Before the movie left circulation, I'll bet I saw it 30  times.  Everything about this small film grabbed and held me.  There was  the unforgettable story of a love so strong that it transcended time and  place, there was the beautiful setting and there was the evocative and  haunting score by John Barry.  Finally, there was my favorite piece of  classical music;  Variation 18 of Sergei Rachmaninoff's Rhapsody on a Theme  of Paganini, which is probably one of the most romantic pieces of piano  music written in modern times.
  This is a magical movie and one that  was maligned by critics at the time of its release.  Because it was fantasy  and because the requirement to suspend disbelief was so demanding, it was  dismissed as a four hankie tearjerker.  It wasn't for me and I was a 26  year old single guy hoping that I would experience a love so complete and  so fulfilling.  This movie proved beyond a doubt that such love is possible  and that everyone should seek it and hopefully, find it.
  This movie  was made on a small budget and yet, it was produced and directed in the  grand tradition of the old Hollywood.  Quality was paramount and they  included great costumes and a wonderful locale to enhance the mood of the  film.  Lighting, music, soft shading all were used to give the viewer the  sense that this was something to be remembered.
  Very few people saw  this movie in 1980; it was discovered and developed its following on cable  and on video.  I consider myself very fortunate to have seen it when new on  the large screen.  Every penny I paid for admission and all of the hours I  sat hunkered in my seat marveling at Jane Seymour's beauty were aspects of  the movie that only make me love it more.
  There are so many treats to  this movie that one doesn't know where to begin.  Of all the movies ever  made though, it is one of only two that has a fan club dedicated to its  preservation and enjoyment.  The fan club, which is known as INSITE (for  International Network of Somewhere In Time Enthusiasts) publishes an  extremely high quality quarterly journal and holds several events during  the year to commemorate the members' love for the movie and its cast.  The  editor of the journal, Jo Addie, even appeared as an extra in the movie and  has written eloquently and lovingly of her time as a member of the cast  family.  Through her articles, other members have come to know more about  Jane and Christopher and Elise and Richard and her words have added  immeasurably more to our enjoyment.
  This is a very special movie and  others have said that.  It is not a perfect movie, but then, none are.  I  am not here to discuss its flaws because whatever they might be, I choose  to overlook them.  This movie grabbed me like few others ever have.  I  doubt many to come ever will again.  Somewhere In Time is a timeless  story because men and women will continue to fall in love long after all of  us here now are gone.  In 500 years, if someone opens a vault and finds a  DVD copy of this movie, they will surely know what it was like to find a  love so all encompassing, so true that one would willingly give up life in  the present to find love in the past.
  Some would say that Richard  Collier became obsessed with a portrait and perhaps they would be right.  But that doesn't explain the obsession of thousands of fans here and around  the world who have adopted this movie and given it a special place in their  hearts.  It is a credit to the writer Richard Matheson, who adapted his  novel BID TIME RETURN so well that 20 years later, members of INSITE would  launch a campaign to re-release Somewhere In Time.  It is a credit to Reeve  and Seymour that they made their characters so alive that INSITE members  portray them at the annual Somewhere In Time weekend held at the Grand  Hotel on Mackinac Island each Fall.
  Some have called this the ultimate  Chick Flick.  Well, I'm here to say it's not. This is the kind of movie  that a man, if he is unafraid to admit it, could  sit down alone with and  understand that a relationship, even of short duration could be so all  consuming as to replace the need for anything else.  All throughout this  movie, whenever Reeve and Seymour look at each other, there is a chemistry  and magic that we don't see in the movies made today.  That magic grows  stronger with every viewing for me and I'll bet for all lovers of this film  and its poignant story.
  Lest you think it's nothing more than romance,  this movie also has some very humorous scenes that creep up on the viewer.  There are very cute scenes where Richard Collier (Reeve) practices what he  will say when he meets Elise McKenna.  There is the scene by the lake where  Richard and Elise first meet and they are both somewhat taken aback before  she says, "Is it you...?"  Then, there is the scene where  Elise McKenna changes the lines she is to say in the play being shown at  the hotel's theater.  She stares dreamily off into the audience and says,  "the man of my dreams has almost faded now..."  Her soliloquy is  probably one of the most well written speeches ever delivered by a  cinematic character.  It is another reason so many fans love this movie  because it is Elise McKenna's confession, her public soul-baring that she  has found the man of her dreams and finally recognized him.  From the  moment Elise finishes her monologue, the viewer knows that Richard and  Elise were meant to be together and nothing will ever keep them apart. Not  distance, not place, not time. They will be together, always.
  There  is magic and music and a simple wonder to this movie and its timeless  story.  But you know what, don't take my word for it.  Rent it or buy it  and find out why it is one of Universal's best sellers in video.  It was  made 20 years ago and yet, new fans continue to find it.  See it, open your  heart to it and discover yourself why so many people around the world call  it their favorite movie of all time.