This film isn't bad, to make a long story short.

I thought the opening sequence went on a bit too long, but did a great job of making the rest of the movies seem like a legitimate documentary.

Personally, I think the camera work was pretty amazing, and extremely effective. I was really impressed at how so many of the shots were all one take, and how the camera seems to have been operated by an actor. Also, the use of the camera in -- spoiler -- the death of one of the zombies was a neat idea.

I was on the edge of my seat for just about all of the movie. But what really killed it was the ending. Even if -- spoiler -- everyone still died, I would have been completely happy had an ending actually existed. As it stands, the movie just kind of cuts off.

Here's my vision for how the movie's ending should be remade:

The main character chick doesn't die, but instead kills the zombie guy in the attic by beating him with the camera. The audience sees him getting beaten to "death", and eventually the camera's audio and video get busted in the onslaught, one after the other.

Then, we cut to a new video camera outside of the building, belonging to a new duo of journalists accompanying the soldiers or police or whomever who go in to investigate the building in the morning following the night when the crap hits the fan. They go throughout the house, and everyone - the zombies included - are dead, having eaten each other or just plain kicked it over the course of the night. The new journalist duo, of course, are ooh-ing and ahh-ing all along the way. Everything in the house is totally still -- except for maybe one zombie jumping out and scaring the audience and getting shot, just to keep everyone awake.

Eventually, they arrive at the attic, go through the rat room, and into the lab. They're looking around, when the Jennifer Carpenter character attacks them zombie-style. They shoot her. But upon looking closer at her, they realize that her tear glands are peachy and she's not foaming at the mouth. She wasn't rabid, having successfully bludgeoned the attic zombie to death with the camera -- she was just traumatized and driven to insanity by her horrible night.

Finally, they discover Jennifer Carpenter's busted video camera on the ground. The new journalists pop open the camera, find the footage Jennifer Carpenter recorded (what the audience just saw), and pop it in their own camera to see what's recorded. They press 'play', and the movie ends.

...well, I think it's catchy.