There's a line in a Monty Python sketch about the effect a criminal has on his underlings: "I've seen men pull their own heads off rather than see Doug." That's the effect the news that Don Logan is coming to town has on retired criminal Gal. Gal's settled into his relaxing, lazy days under the Spanish sun, until a boulder the size of a small house flies over his head and rolls into his treasured swimming pool. Can you say "symbolic foreshadowing," boys and girls?...because Don Logan's about to slam into Gal's leisurely life with all the force and violence of a landslide, sent to recruit Gal out of retirement for one last heist, and absolutely NOT taking "no" for an answer . 
In a movie where much of the first half consists of conflict through dialogue (it's almost a stage play in set-up), the performances are key, and "Sexy Beast" has no weak links. Ray Winstone has the unenviable task of holding his own against Ben Kingsley, and succeeds uncannily without resorting to caricature. His fear is palpable--you can almost smell the sweat at his being cornered like a rabbit with no way to break out. Even perennial TV guest star Ian McShane excels in the role of a slick and cunning criminal boss, a performance that breaks out of his usual pattern and won't remind you in the least of Lovejoy (McShane's most famous character, the genial art forger/detective).
But the standout performance is, of course, Ben Kingsley. Kingsley is brilliant as the manic, menacing Logan: fulfills the standard clich&eacute; of performing "a role that will surprise you"-Don Logan is sort of role Michael Caine made an icon in 1960s movies like the original "Get Carter"-tough, brutal, smooth, sexy, manipulative, and more than a little bit of a maniac: a man you don't say "no" to if you want to survive. The whole movie, in fact, has the feel of a 1960s British crime drama like "Get Carter" with the modern sensibilities of directors of today like Guy Ritchie. The movie may be a little too much a crime-genre film to garner Academy Award nominations, but both Kingsley's and Winstone's performances are worthy of an Oscar nod as a driven hunter and his prey.
Although once it gets to the heist itself, innovative as it is, the main drive of the film is lessened. Once Kingsley's off the screen, I began fidgeting, waiting for his return, and McShane's character matching wits with Gal is no substitute for vicious Don Logan. But that's the sole weak spot in an exceptionally powerful, dark-humored, violent but stylish movie that's not so much a heist caper as it is a sharp and penetrating look at the violence men visit on each other...and on themselves.