The show itself is great, and has been commented on in other reviews.  Uncut it has lots of mood-setting location footage that largely got edited in Nick's marathon last year.

One thing that hasn't been commented on, however, is the cast commentaries, featuring Marlo Thomas and series co-creator Bill Persky.  They are, without a doubt, the weakest commentaries I've ever seen on any DVD set, featuring LONG periods of silence, often followed by a trivial observation ("Get a load of that outfit she's wearing, et cetera").  There are a few bits here and there where they expound on the philosophy of the show itself, but virtually nothing in the form of anecdotes from the set, or about the supporting cast, or what it was like making the show.

In many cases, they seem as unsure as to what's going to happen next as the viewer is.  Granted, 40 years is a long time, and memories may fade, but it might have been a good idea if they'd watched the show first, to refresh their memories, and then watched again, to actually record the commentary.  While the Red Dwarf Commentaries are chock full of stories, anecdotes, and cutting up, and the Get Smart commentaries are chock full of information, the That Girl commentaries have little of anything.  Almost no stories about the shows, no stories about the cast, no anecdotes about Ted Bessell or Bonnie Scott, nothing.  I actually learned more about the making of That Girl from a few offhand references Bernie Kopell made in a Get Smart Cast Commentary than I did from watching all the commentaries on this set.

One particularly egregious example.  In a season 2 commentary, Persky and Thomas wonder about an Italian film director, and wonder if the actor is really Italian.  When the credits roll, they notice his name, Francis Lederer, and figure nope, he wasn't Italian.  But 5 minutes of research I did on Lederer myself, show him to have been quite an interesting fellow, who was in the Austro-Hungarian aramy in World War I, lived to be 100, was still teaching acting students at age 99, and who founded the American National Academy of Performing Arts in Los Angeles.  If Thomas and Persky had had just one guy doing one day, or even one hour of research into these episodes, and handing them a page of notes to use during the commentary, the quality could have been improved tenfold.

Here's hoping that Bernie Kopell and series co-creator Sam Denoff may make an appearance or two in future commentaries.