As a big fan of the jaw-dropping, mind-melding, get-your-kicks-on-Route-66, WTF insanity of 'Machine Girl', 'Vampire Girl vs. Frankenstein Girl', 'Tokyo Gore Police', 'Meatball Machine' and, to a lesser extent, 'Hard Revenge Milly' and 'Onechanbara', I salivated in delight when I saw the trailer for this flick and bagged one cheap on another site prior to US release date. Hard not to when you read about demented weaponry like wig napalm, machine breast artillery, killer butt-blades, breast milk from hell and killer-cleaver socks, along with the usual guns and swordplay that no longer seem enough for we jaded fanatics of far-fetched films.

A megalomaniacal Japanese businessman and his son are recruiting certain girls to train to become Geisha assassins, surgically augmenting them with weapons, armor and similar appendages (sound familiar?) in a bid to take over the world. Two sisters are initiated, but when one of them refuses to kill an innocent group of elderly ex-employees, the sisters must square-off in Kamikaze combat to save us all. Or something like that.

Unfortunately, in spite of all I've mentioned, this film disappoints on various levels - the plot is weak (which is easily forgiven if the flick transcends this flaw, as in most of the above-referenced films, all of which I enjoyed to some extent, so I'm no elitist a-hole ), the special effects are too often childish and hokey (though several are well-executed), the fight scenes are feeble (no one participating really got proper training to pull the scenes off ), resulting in violence akin to the likes of a Tom and Jerry cartoon. The two sisters at the center of the film became annoying and couldn't act believably, and what will ultimately frustrate most of the core audience for a flick of this nature is that not one of the women in the entire movie was really attractive! WTF! (I even sat still for 'Onechanbara 2 - Zombie Killer Vortex' due to the fact that the replacement female lead was eye candy enough and much sexier than the first, even though the first installment was a better movie).

On a lesser level, the dialogue was juvenile, the sound track was awful and added nothing to the proceedings, and the attempt to build a climax at the finale fell flat on its face, IMHO. As the producers of these movies attempt to push the boundaries farther and farther out they only get more and more vacuous, sort of like watching the universe expand until there's nothing left. It's time to reel it back in a bit for the sake of cohesiveness, or at least until they've got a budget big enough to bring these crazed, over-inflated ideas to proper fruition. This should have been a great film of its kind, but you know what they say - woulda, coulda, shoulda...

Not altogether terrible, but I find it difficult to recommend, especially after the previous films mentioned above. If you're still interested, look at other sites for less expensive Asian copies - they're only about ten bucks, and that's all it's really worth. You won't be re-watching this one too often...