This is such an amazing movie and being a big fan of Miley Cyrus and Hannah Montana it satisfied me a lot. I loved how it started out with Miley as Hannah thinking that she was going to go to New York for a performance at an awards show, but her father surprisingly flies her to where she is born Tennessee. I enjoy all the wonderful moments of father/daughter bonding between Miley and her father Billy Ray Cyrus.

  It is wonderful to see Miley finding her true self and who she is back at home. She also realizes that it is becoming harder to be Hannah and Miley at the same time, and she wants to stop being Hannah and to remain Miley only. There are a lot of high moments, bonding with family and friends at Crowley Meadows. The music by Miley/Hannah is truly magnificent and the guest appearances are really cool. I love all the songs that Miley has in here, the funny and emotional parts especially when Miley goes to get eggs from the chickens and when she sings "Butterfly Fly Away" with her father is such a touching moment.

  I truly enjoy when she starts "Rock Star" towards the end of the movie, and then realizes she can't be Hannah anymore, stops singing, tells everyone she is really Miley Stewart, and then goes into a powerful performance of her amazing-inspirational song "The Climb." This movie is such a wonderful mixture of self discovery, putting aside who you were, deciding what is really important, comedy, and emotional moments.

  The bonus features are truly amazing especially seeing Miley walking around the small-town where she was born Franklin, Tennessee. I also love the deleted scene where Miley is on the porch strumming the chords to "Butterfly, fly Away", while talking to her dad (I wish they would've kept that scene in the movie.) I give it 5 stars, because Miley is truly amazing both singing and acting wise, and all the music is truly wonderful. The movie was so amazing that it kept me so hooked on it that I couldn't stop watching it, and I have watched about six times already. I also love that they included the video for "The Climb" on the bonus features.

  Miley is so amazing and talented, she kept me really mesmerized with her music and acting in this movie adaptation of "Hannah Montana" that I will be able to watch it, many more times and never ever get tired of it. So if you're a Miley Cyrus and Hannah Montana like me, then you should buy this, because it is so worth it.