Because of legalities involving the director of the film, the most that Pagey was able to do to alter this vintage concert film was to remix with Kevin Shirley, the sound for DOLBY 5.1 and DTS 5.1 and two-channel STEREO. Where this was really noticeable was in the stand-out tracks DAZED AND CONFUSED, WHOLE LOTTA LOVE, and the MOBY DICK drum solo.

Whether it is with the guitar and bow workout in DAZED AND CONFUSED or the Theramin "Pit of Hell" in WHOLE LOTTA LOVE -- Page and Kevin Shirley have been able to add many new dimensions to the sound mix. For example, the rear channels of the 5.1 system have an added new dimensionality to the sound and the overall ambience -- the original QUADRAPHONIC 4-channel mix from 1976 just didn't have the depth of field to sound the way Page intended, using today's advanced technology.

Even the cobbled-together 5.1 surround mix for the original DVD of TSRTS -- which was done without the supervision of audio producer extraordinaire Jimmy Page -- sounds sub-par and quite unsatisfying to my ears. This may be one of the reasons why this never got a fair shake from the group's worldwide fan base, and is largely detested by this selfsame group of people.

THE EXTRAS ...

The second DVD and the printed materials that have been included with this COLLECTOR'S EDITION provide some historical context -- such as the concert reviews, and the news article on the Drake Hotel robbery. Also included are invites and facsimile tickets to the films' theatrical premiere, two sets of lobby cards (one in color, the other set in b & w), a copy of the 1973 tour itinerary, and a t-shirt of unknown size -- which features the soundtrack artwork.

DVD # 2 contains some nice extras:

01) The remaining songs from the concert, which because of space limitations in 1976, were never included UNTIL NOW.

02) A TV news report from Tampa, Florida USA about their sold-out show there, which broke attendance and gross gate receipts established by The BEATLES August 15, 1965 Shea Stadium concert.

03) A nice BBC interview with Robert Plant and Peter Grant, as they ride aboard a boat on the Thames.

04) Extensive news footage on the Drake Hotel robbery, which was never solved, to the best of my memory.

05) A Cameron Crowe radio profile of the band. And, considering what he went on to do with his life, this is nice to have. [NOTE: Robert Plant's infamous "I'm a Golden God!" exclamation found its' way into Crowe's 2000 film ALMOST FAMOUS. This film has another Zeppelin connection. Crowe, in his 'director's cut' DVD of the film, the viewer is instructed on when to begin playing Stairway To Heaven at a certain point in a deleted scene. Crowe could not afford to pay to license the song, and it was up to the viewer to pull out their own copy of Led Zeppelin IV to reach full effect in this scene.]

All in all, a well-deserved update to an important musical artifact of the raucous 1970's.

<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000UR9TQO">Led Zeppelin: The Song Remains the Same (Collector's Edition)</a>