Okay, I'll admit that I love old 1950's sci-fi movies. Yes, the budgets were often meager, the special effects were primitive by today's standards, the acting could be wooden and/or melodramatic, and the dialogue was often lame and (to modern ears) politically incorrect. But the best of these movies had an undeniable giddy charm to them, and they managed to combine both the innocence and Anti-Communist paranoia of that era in a way that no modern sci-fi movie can touch. "The Thing" (1951), which was officially directed by newcomer Christian Nyby but which in reality was directed by the great Howard Hawks, is one of the best of the fifties sci-fi offerings. The film is set in the frozen Arctic of northern Alaska, where Dr. Arthur Carrington, a scientist at a US research station, has been getting some strange readings and photographs from what he thought was a crashed meteor. The US military sends Capt. Patrick Hendry and his crew to investigate, and tagging along is Scotty (a marvelous Douglas Spencer, who steals every scene he's in), a newspaper reporter who's desperate for a "big story". At the station Capt. Hendry meets Nikki (Margaret Sheridan), Dr. Carrington's attractive assistant, and they quickly hit it off. After traveling to the "meteor's" crash site, they are stunned to learn that it's actually a crashed UFO trapped underneath the ice. The UFO is destroyed in an attempted retrieval, but they do rescue a supposedly dead "crewman" encased in a block of ice, and take him back to the station. Bad move - the alien (James Arness, later of "Gunsmoke" fame) is accidentally thawed out and comes back to life. Vengeful and seeking food, he kills some sled dogs and then goes after the station's human residents. Meanwhile, a raging debate breaks out between the military personnel (who want to kill the creature), and Dr. Carrington (who acts increasingly like a typical mad scientist as the film progresses). Carrington believes that the alien could help humanity make great strides technologically and wants him to be preserved, no matter what the cost. Carrington loses the argument, but the alien turns out to be difficult to kill - bullets, subzero temperatures, and fire all prove to be ineffective in stopping him. Partly this is because the alien turns out to be made from plant matter - thus shooting it is like shooting part of a plant - it has no effect on the other parts. (This revelation leads to one of the film's most memorable lines: "An intellectual carrot - the mind boggles"!). What's worse is that the creature lives on warm blood, and it won't hesitate to kill everyone at the station to survive. I won't give away anymore of the plot, but this film is definitely worth watching if you like suspense, tension, and a few scares. This movie has also had a real influence on pop culture - just listen as, early in the film, Capt. Hendry and his men talk about the US government's coverup of UFO sightings, and Scotty's grumblings about the military refusing to let him publicize the discovery of the crashed UFO (Roswell, anyone?). In John Carpenter's original "Halloween" (1978), Jamie Lee Curtis's character watches "The Thing" while Micheal Myers stalks her friends across the street (Carpenter was a great admirer of "The Thing", and of course did a remake with Kurt Russell in 1982). And a popular book debunking the UFO mystery is entitled "Watch the Skies" after Scotty's famous last lines at the end of this movie. Overall, "The Thing" is a great way to spend a couple of hours on a dark and rainy night. Recommended!