Note: I had to quote the other critic who did not find this movie so stunning, literarily. The same could be said about our world of high finance leading up to to stumble , slip, slide, collapse, shriek, horror, of 2007,&'08...and, we all suppose, '09!Did no one see this coming? Actually a few did...but as in all things..."The Few do not matter in the grand scheme of things one whit". They are merely the messengers with party pooper news that just get whipped, shot, and killed.
It's understandable that Coppola might try a real art piece in his golden years. We can't help but feel he must have identified with the character, Dominic, who seriously questioned his worth and contribution to the world as he stumbled, slipped, and slid into his seventies. It is an awful thing, - you whippersnappers who can't imagine losing eyesight, hearing, and even mental faculties. It's a bad time. Many of us can identify with Dominic as well...questioning our worth and contribution to life...and maybe that we might have squandered our lives more prudently/artistically/theologically...certainly more theologically and morally. Even Charlie Sheen is redeeming himself with his very successful sit com, "Two and a Half Men".
The movie will not disappoint artistically. The cinematography is unsurpassed. But was that Francis...or his cinematographer?
It's the story line that seemed never to even glance at the goofy meter. The actors, all of them, are absolutely superb -each deserving of approbation - ( except for the sad fact that we are in an interminable age of "Mumble Cinema"-meaning...no one wants to distort their pretty face by enunciating...just whisper, mumble pseudointellectual mumbo jumbo...sigh, and blub-glub foreign accents at a decible level well  below the music track...all sort of up there with "The English Patient" in 'Mrr,, hrr, bliperrpt" incomprehensivble mutterings)... these actors portrayed one person reversing in time, and another "Soul Transmigrating" forward in time-  first to the  ancient beginnings of man and language...then forward to turn out to be Dominic's high school sweetheart. "Awww". (sorry ) I'm not supportive of the premesis, because it is more ten million dollar elaborate exposition of the "ABC" belief system="Anything But Christianity". Anyone who has never studied Judeo Christian Theology in great depth will contort their faces at this next remark-but all one needs to know about the history of the Earth and mankind is there in the Bible that  you so despise you refuse to read it. ( which is not unlike despising asparagus, without ever having tasted it! ) Genesis was dictated to Moses, because the one who created the world in six days, knows the future, and knew that this would be a huge question in the late history of mankind. Now think about this: If you were a general and planning your battle strategy against "the despised enemy"...and your "enemy" knows the future and can and will anticipate your every move..how can you possibly plan any effective strategy at all? You can't win against a creator who demonstrates knowledge of the future all over the map. God created a "terrarium"; and the jealous kid next door was envious, and introduced toxins when God's attention wandered. It will take thousands of years to straighten out the putrified gene pool...but straighten it out He will...and the brat next door will "get his just due, and all who went over to his side". In the meantime, evil does win, and win big. But in the end, the oil will be separated from the water. It takes time, that's all.
Now a few million folks came up with 'some kind of explanation'...but it is only that..."some kind of explanation"-namely Buddhists and Hindus, Zorastrians, et. al. O.K., great. But in the end, they are each and every one- all "wannabee" religions. Incidentally, religious people are NOT what God is looking for or seeking to rescue. Religious people are interested Only in familiar rituals handed down from generation to generation. Anything odd frightens them...hence the sadistic persecution of the "odd person" in High School= Something that compels folks at the synagogue and the Church to all dress and act alike...fear of persection. It is all tragicomedy. It is only those who have hit rock bottom so hard that they cried out for help in humility, and God lifts these very people out of the "vortex to perdition", thus "saving" them. If one has lived a life of priveledge all of one's life...these poor souls cannot possibly distinguish between what is resplendent and what is repugnant. This explains Ron Howard's anti religious zeal. ( prime expample of a life of priveledge ) All semi erudite/pseudo intellectual mincing about in powdered wigs, sniffing the snuff of our fame and fortune= swill, created by a Brit, where Darwin is has become the God of all creation.
And this in turn has more to do with making large amounts of filthy lucre, and absolutely nothing to do with enlightening john q public.
Meaning, we are back to the "goofy meter pegging"...all over the map.... the poor little rich boys simply don't realize at all what bleating, Dodo Birds and useless Gnats they have become...and soon to be extinct themselves-and haven't the foggiest clue...thus they , like Dominic, have utterly wasted their lives. This is the one concept that saves this movie.