The CIA of the 1950's was gaining unchecked power and had recently launched "Operation Mockingbird", a project designed to gain influence over all forms of media both domestic and foreign. The project quickly became a vast success. Feeling threatened by the advance of the CIA, J. Edgar Hoover, director of the FBI, began to spy on CIA agents and their affiliates digging deep into their past. Hoover soon uncovered details linking high profile figures of state to the Communist party. Hoover passed these details onto Sen. Joseph McCarthy. Edward R. Murrow was on the direct payroll of the CIA at the time and excepted large sums of cash during the "Project Mockingbird" days. Murrow along with CBS and several newspapers were ordered to go after Joseph McCarthy by The Washington Post, when McCarthy dug too close to the CIA's domestic interests. The Washington Post held a key role in this propaganda network as it was the duty of the Post to keep an eye over the industry.  On the request of Hoover, McCarthy erroneously went after CIA agent Cord Meyer. Meyer may have held some Communist ties but was heavily protected by his friends at the CIA, which included Allen W. Dulles and Frank Wisner.
  Wisner, outraged by McCarthy's actions, unleashed "Mockingbird" on Sen. McCarthy. Soon the CIA was paying bribes to correspondents at: NBC, The New York Herald Tribune, CBS, and dozens of affiliates to portray McCarthy in an intensely negative light.
Alfred Friendly (played by George Clooney) was a former intelligence man during World War II, who later became an IC (Independent Contractor) for the CIA while working at the Washington Post. Fred Friendly was later brought to CBS to oversee propaganda efforts there on behalf of the government. The sabotage effort cost the CIA about $350 Million a year in under the table bribes to the news papers and reporters at various media outlets. Today this practice of bribes for propaganda lives on at ABC (George Stephanopoulos CFR/Bilderburg) and CNN (Anderson Cooper CIA) as well as many newspaper and internet media outlets. George Clooney the director of this propaganda piece, is an IC for the CIA as was his character Alfred Friendly, a little inside joke to his friends at the agency.