Simply the best movie ever.

and more specifically, the best indie cult musical of all time.

I saw it in the theater in 1981 (yes it played in just ONE theater in the US) and was mesmerized.  Mind you I was a rocky Horror fan at the time, but was never too pleased with the dismal effect of the movie version of rocky (go see the play) and Shock breathed new life into the cast and crew, a modern new wave musical on the dawn of the 80s, all shiny and happy and poking fun at middle america for the morons that they are.

If yer a rocky fan, just get over it.  There are about a hundred references to the original movie strewn throughout Shock treatment, which is entertaining in its own right just to find and point out (think of it as a party game) and there are tons of other neat pop culture references in the amazingly deft screenplay and superb art direction.

If you are a big rocky afficianado and you dont appreciate the genius of this movie, you need to move on with your life.  (Actually, you should really do that anyway, I spent 5 years in the rocky horror subculture in its formative years, and really, it was fun as a teen in 1982, but try finding a new hobby or talking to real life humans sometimes for a change)

But please, DONT like this movie, because you probably have superb film taste and high standards of cinema excellence and drive an SUV and live in the suburbs, and we wouldnt want you in "our" club anyway.  But if you love sly indie comedy or you think russ meyer, john waters, pedro almodovar and herschell gordon lewis make great movies AND you love new wave music and think 1980 was a million times more culturally advanced than 1979, you will have great fun with this.

Then go rent the aussie musical Starstruck which features the same art director and equally good music.

And for you rocky horror trivia freaks, it should be pointed out that Cliff De Young was the original pick for Brad in Rocky Horror (the movie), but turned it down due to a scheduling conflict with his then hit tv show.  You can see what Cliff and Susan Sarandon wouldve been like together by watching the great 'alternate version of rocky horror' namely "The Hunger" where Susan and Cliff reprise Brad and Janet and Catherine Deneuve performs a splendid Frank N Furter to David Bowie's Riff Raff

Also, in Shock Treatment, note Christopher Malcolm, the DTV security guard, is the man who created the role of Brad on stage in London in 1973 (and played an x wing pilot in Star Wars as well)