In "Less Than Zero", Blair, a beautiful young woman who seems to be losing her soul, is asked if she is happy. She responds by saying, "I'm not sad, but do I look good?" This is the essence of what is at the core of the characters who inhabit this film. All of them are filthy rich, and everything in their life is about how you look on the outside, while their inner core rots away. Julien, hauntingly played by Robert Downey Jr. , can no longer keep up the facade of looking good. His chronic cocaine addiction and the pain he suffers is on full outer display. Making this film even more poignant is how you can almost feel the real Robert Downey Jr. crying out through his performance,
"Less Than Zero" centers on the forementioned characters, as well as Clay who has not fallen into drug addiction, but watches his ex-girlfriend Blair in the begining stage of addiction and his best friend Julien falling into the abyssmal stage. The film takes the viewer through the fascinating underworld of the L.A. ritzy drug scene of the 1980s. Despite the emotional brutality that the characters go through, the film is beautiful to look at, furthering the ironic notion of the film that despite being surrounded by beauty, the really is nothing but emptiness. There are a couple of emotionally jaw dropping scenes involving Clay and Blair trying to help Julian overcome his drug addiction. But in reality only he can save himself. "Less Than Zero" has no illusions about the power of drug addiction. The film shows the insanity of repeating the same self destructive actions over and over again.
Note that the soundtrack is amazing, including the Bangles cover of "Hazy Shade of Winter". The score by Thomas Newman is so mournfully powerful it sends chills up your spine. Jami Gertz deserves special recogniton for her performance, who some might misunderstand, you have to remember she is coked up and like most of the characters in the film doesn't want to feel. From a viewers standpoint "Less Than Zero" is full of feeling to the point of being cathartic.