"Red Dragon", the movie, is truly delicious.  It stays true to the brilliant Thomas Harris novel of the same name.  I can't help but chortle with wild, almost maniacal glee as I write this review!

"Red Dragon" is my favorite of the three Harris novels.

The primary reason the story is so thrilling is because of our fascination with the larger-than-life and yet largely believable character that Harris created in Hannibal Lecter.

Lecter's brilliance borders on the supernatural.  He is a top-notch psychiatrist, a superb twelve-fingered pianist, a culinary genius, a lover and master of art and literature with an encyclopedic knowledge of both genres.  He can be exquisitely charming and charismatic, serenely at home in aristocratic society.  And though larger-than-life, Lector is presented him in such a way that one accepts that such a man could be.  Harris manipulates the audience so that the audience revels lovingly and satisfyingly in the deception.

A flaw in such a superlative person might make him human.  Lecter's `flaw' makes him a Monster.

The flaw?  Lecter likes to brutally kill and occasionally eat the odd acquaintance.  He kills primarily for pleasure, but we find that the world may indeed be better off with the deletions Lecter chooses.  His victims include an incurable pedophile, an out-of-tune flautist, an out-of-season deer hunter, a serial killer, and so on.  There is a lyrical, intelligent quality to the killings of Hannibal Lecter.

Add to this FBI Special Agent Will Graham who has the gift and the tragedy of being able to put himself inside the mind of a killer.  Then switch burners so the Monster Lecter is actually `helping' the FBI to catch another killer, Francis Dolarhyde, ruthless and yet pitiable in his efforts to contain his own psychotic demons as he allows a seductive coworker to eroticize him, possibly the first time for both of them.

Stir all this up and you get a meaty brew, rich with flavor and texture.

Dolarhyde's plan to take the blind girl on a date to `see' a live tiger was spell binding.  What an electrifying romantic date!  And it certainly had its affect on the blind girl.  We could see that if not for things beyond his control, Dolarhyde may have developed into a handsome, charming, thoughtful, charismatic suitor to this woman.

Lector goads Dolarhyde into killing the unsavory Freddy Lounze in a most agonizing and exquisite way.  Like the investigators, we squirm in our chairs upon hearing the recording of a lipless, perhaps tongue-less Freddy, screaming, writhing in pain, sans fricative consonants.  And yet we feel that in some way, Freddy met with his end justly.

Thomas Harris' brilliance is first in his creation of such detailed memorable characters as Graham, Lecter and Dolarhyde and then in his ability to allow the reader to identify with each.  He saut&eacute;s these characters (the way Lecter would) into a brilliant, epicurean story to complete the tasty dish.  Slurp.

Director Bret Ratner sounded like an impostor during the commentary; I couldn't persuade myself that this dolt, excuse me, had directed this great movie.  He sounded goofy, always iterating sophomoric quips like "Oh!  I really like THIS scene..."  And, unbelievably, he confesses that he doesn't even understand the tiger scene, one of my favorites, and one that I felt was essential to understanding the complexity of the Dolarhyde character.  Who really directed this movie?

I guess the proof is in the pudding.  I applaud the fact that this movie was true to Harris' novel.  It helped relieve the heartburn I got when I tried to digest "Manhunter", the first cinematic attempt of Harris' "Red Dragon", which completely charred the storyline.

I felt that excellent performances were turned in by all the major actors, including Edward Norton, Anthony Hopkins, Ralph Fiennes and Emily Watson.

This film is very highly recommended.

-Viddy