GAINAX, the most famous for its blasphemus and brilliant Evangelion, took on Kare Kano by Masami Tsuda.  Push aside all the philosophical and cryptic and garbage.  this anime is a careful analysis of two individuals who never opened themselves up to others before.  Yukino and Arima are learning to understand each other and also themselves through their relationship.  This relationship is so throughly developed and carefuly analyzed, I can't say anything bad about it.  this anime is probably the most insightful anime I've ever watched.  Along with that central theme, add hillarious comedy, good romance storyline, incredible seiyuu work which I think is among the best in any anime, and some truly brilliant character development, you've got a great anime series truly worth watching.

It is true that the anime start out great and towards the end it start to fall apart a little.  Especially at the end if you were looking for a conclusion you won't get one.  Of course it would've been nice to have a solid conclusion and great second half, this anime is still too good to be put down because of it.  and beside I thought the ending was really realistic many ways.  I mean many people, including myself, are used to seeing a conclusive hollywood productions everyday.  The truth is, however, what happens in this anime is much more real and is much more complex.

If there is one realy true negative, it is its animation towards the end.  Apparently GAINAX must have ran out of money or something because the last episode especially look like flipping manga pages rather than watching an anime.  Character designs and background animation all begin to lose its texture towards the end which is disappointing.

I've watched anime for a long time and this anime still is among my favorite.  If you want a change of pace from fanservice dominated romance animes, or one of those cheesy day time drama romance animes, I say this anime will give you a fresh presentation of realism in relationships.