Occasionally, one encounters an example of film, music, etc. which transcends its genre to become a major artistic achievement. "Once Upon a Time in the West" does exactly that. Director Sergio Leone did virtually nothing that he hadn't done in his string of prior westerns; this time he created a work of stunning beauty, riveting tension and dense emotional impact.
The bare bones outline of the story (written by Leone, Bernardo Bertoluci and Dario Argento) is almost a western cliche: unscrupulous railroad tycoon wants land owned by local homesteader and sends hired gunman to persuade him to vacate. Gunman kills homesteader but homesteader's widow, with help from locals, triumphs in the end. But reducing this movie to the above is like Woody Allen describing "War and Peace" as "about some Russians". Gabriele Ferzetti, as Morton (using crutches and wearing a neck brace) hires gunman Frank (Henry Fonda) to "clear away obstacles" as his railway extends. Fonda plays about the most chilling villain in movie history. Utterly amoral and with a sadistic element barely concealed by his coldness Frank murders an entire family (including the young son). When Morton later admonishes "I told you only to scare them" Frank answers matter of factly "People scare better when they're dyin'".
Opposing Morton and Frank are characters whose goodness lies well below layers of complexity. Widow Jill, played by Claudia Cardinale, is a former New Orleans whore, taking advantage of a marriage proposal in order to begin again. She projects alternating facades of toughness and fragility, concealing real durability. she's unafraid to do whatever is required for survival but does spend a lot of time being bullied by the men around her and she immediately elicits our concern. The brilliant Jason Robards plays local outlaw, Cheyenne, who has cowed the entire community, but finds it in himself to care about Jill and to take up her cause. Laconic Charles Bronson is Harmonica (so named by Cheyenne), a man who is tailing Frank. Beyond this we know nothing and learn little until the end.
Like most Leone works, "Once..." is a visual treat (one should consider the surprising aesthetic effect his visuals had on an audience used to the comparitavely tepid Hollywood Western). The director outdoes himself here, using Montana's Monument Valley to great effect and rendering his characters true to period (grimy, unkenpt and probably malodorous) and simultaneously visually arresting. He uses lengthy shots of the actor's eyes, particularly in the climactic scene. Fonda's blues convey the icy murderousness of his character and a little squint by Bronsonsets up the "why" of their relationship. Leone's long stills, whether of people or scenery do not bore, rather small tics, gestures and movements become heightened in importance.
In addition, the score by Ennio Morricone is brilliant. Each major character has a musical motif which supports without being intrusive. Much of the incidental music is also well done (listen to the percussion/piano background during Frank's shootout with his former employees). Morricone's score also seems to heighten its absence. Long stretches of silence or desert sounds create a tension which slowly builds, then either climaxes or ebbs.
I first saw this movie in 1970, not too long after is was released. When I left the theater I found it occupying my head more than just about any film I'd seen to date. I've seen it on late night television about a half dozen times but bad editing turns it into nothing more than a pretty good movie (kind of like trimming "La Guernica" to make wallpaper). I was thrilled to see that it had been released intact and have watched it several times since getting a copy. It still occupies my head for a long time afterward.