I had first seen this movie when it was in theaters in 1997.  I was 9 years old I thought this was the best movie ever.  I even thought it was so much better then the first Mortal Kombat, which is a really awesome movie and one of the greatest video game adaptions ever made.  But now I have a better understanding of movies and realize this movie isn't that great, but it isn't crap, it's just plain ok.  But if I had directed this movie, I could tink of so many other ways to make this a great movie, it probobly wouldn't be as good as the first, bit t wuld still be good.  Enough about that, here is the lot.
We pick up right where the first one left off.  Liu had defeated Shang Tsung, and had won the the tournament.  The rules were that the portals from Outworld were to close for atleat until another generation, leaving a brief period of peace on Earth.  But someone from outworld has a different point of view.  That person is Shao Khan, the emperor of outworld, along w/ some of his generals such as Motaro, Shiva, Sindel, Ermac, and Rain.  The tournament is over, now a war has begun.  He has broken the sacred rules and plans to have outworld and the earth merge into one realm.  This will kill all mankind and this also affects Rayden because in outworld he has no powers, so as the realms merge, he slowly loses his powers.  Rayden and others; Lui Kang, Sonya, and Kitana must stop this before the two realms have merged into on.  In order to do so, they must enlist help of other warriors from earth.  Such as Jax and Nitecrawler.  And along their journey, they will be hunted by Shoa Khan's extermination squads such as Smoke (I thought he was a good guy), Scorpion, Cyrax, Mileena, and scorpion.  And along the way, they are met by Sub-Zero (not the same one from the first movie) and are joined by Jade (who is much hotter then I thought she was), but what they don't know is that jade is will later turn against them.  While the humans go on their journey, Rayden goes on a quest to ask the elder gods why they allowed this to happen.  They have six days till the realms are fully merged, if they haven't stopped Shao Khan by the 6th day, then all hope is lost.
That is basically the plot of the movie, now its time to state why this movie isn't that great.  The fight scenes are, although lots of them are too short, but they're still fun to watch.  One big reason is the fact that alot of characters are barely on the screen.  Sub zero, smoke, cyrax, and Scorpion were only in the movie for like 2 minutes, 3 minutes at most.  And not only that, they have very stupid dialogues.  Plus I didn't like the fact they killed Johhny Cage in the beggining.  One very big reason are the extremely cheezy special effects.  There are so many computer generated images in the movie.  You cn clearly tell so much of it is fake.  Its  so cheezy, its practically made for little kids.  Anyway, that is basically it.  If you do see this movie, then I suggest you rent it first.  It's not that bad, but its not worth owning.