"I become capability. I become the horror-- what we know we can become only in our heart of darkness. It's my gift. It's my curse. That's why I retired." -- Frank Black
Millennium was that other great show Chris Carter did besides The X-Files.
Millennium aired from the fall of 1996 to the spring of 1999. Three seasons of the series were produced, a total of 67 individual episodes.
Frank Black was played by Lance Henriksen and his wife Catherine was played by Megan Gallagher around these two people an interesting tale of paranormal events and paranoid conspiracies was intricately woven, complexly knotted, and all focused and ready to take some unknowable form upon the coming of the year 2000.
"Paranoia is just a kind of awareness, and awareness is just a form of love." -- Charles Manson
For all three seasons we eagerly watched the adventures of Frank Black, a former FBI investigator, as the world tilted and twisted spinning closer and closer to the year 2000.
The first two seasons of this show were just beautiful though the second had several questionable miss-steps but kept it together as the pseudo mythology of conspiracies in the show were expanded on creating more and more darkness and paranoia and then came the last season which to summarize frankly tanked miserably.
As with other shows Chris Carter built he created a dark, deadly world and interesting, fragile and paranoid, edgy characters and after a while he lost interest and let other people kill the dang show by seriously messing up the story that was being told, with plot holes bigger than a bread box, and softening up the characters with cheap sentimentality, or out right killing off major pivotal characters.
Hmmm, sounds allot like the The X-Files does it not?
Poor Chris will he ever learn?
Between you and me the third season is only worth watching if you fall in love with the show during the first two. Otherwise although you can see them struggling to save the show let's just say the downward spiral had gone too far.
"Let us go in; the fog is rising." -- Emily Dickinson, her last words, 1886 
Anyway Frank Black and Millennium never made it to the year 2000. Unless you saw that X-Files episode which I refuse to acknowledge.
The show for all concerned was promptly sent to the trash heap of cable programming on the FX channel and forgotten by the FOX big wigs.
That hateful ripoff Profiler seems to still be shown in reruns on TV. But we hate that blond bimbo, she is no Frank Black.
I could go on more about my own fascination with this show, how the thoughts spoken and the dark visions still linger with relevancy and echo with teeth rattling truth.
How the shadows in this show are much darker and meaningful because of what they are not showing than any special effects could have given us.
I will not tell you about the episode Beware Of Dog that used a Carpenters song Close To You as the sound track to a murder of an old couple in a Winnebago by a pack of vicious, demonically possessed, wild dogs. Nor will I tell you how that one twisted, messed up moment makes me laugh every damn time, Nope not one word, I promise.
Just buy this DVD collection of the first season and I promise you some good-scary-fun hours of pure joy.
"CREATE DESIRE" "EVERYBODY WANTS BEAUTIFUL HAIR" "FACILITATE ENVY" "WORK WILL SET YOU FREE" (...)