Ideal, I thought. Too late at night to start watching a whole film, I'll just see two or three of these instead. But, just like biscuits, where you can't have just one, I ended up eating the whole packet. More than two hours later (documentary and trailer included) I was still there, so be warned.

But being addictive isn't the same as being good. A few of these eighteen short films are frankly terrible, some are adequate, others clever and two or three properly rise to the occasion. As there are so many of them I can't be bothered for the purposes of this review to go back and find out exactly who did what but here are the stand-outs, and my surprising conclusions.

Firstly, I remember the directors Gus van Sant, Wes Craven and the Coen brothers for all the wrong reasons. Their films are appalling. My first-year classmates at film school would have done better than that, even the ones that never made it to the second year. The proselytising of Parminder Nagra is likewise simple to the point of mundanity. And then you have all these stars clearly enjoying their school trip to Paris: Bob Hoskins, Fanny Ardant, Nick Nolte, Steve Buscemi, Ben Gazzara - but  what were they all thinking? Only the splendid Natalie Portman and Maggie Gyllenhaal are amongst the few that have done their homework and as a result properly shine.

So what's to like? Well, actually quite a bit. Christopher Doyle's film is startling in its originality, as is the tender and heart-stopping piece about a mother grieving for her young son. Likewise the sweet-to-sad love story featuring Portman properly grasps the five-minute format like few others and shows a care and thoughtfulness that brings a smile to your face. The final film, perhaps the best, builds with a poignancy that is a joy to behold in its economy; seldom have five minutes of celluloid been as gripping, life-affirming, funny and sad all at the same time. This one, together with the others just mentioned, do in fact make the whole endeavour well worth the price of admission.

Little need be said about Paris itself; we all know it's gorgeous. But the cinematography here is quite superb, glowing and pulsing with interesting colours so that even the turkeys (see above) come out looking far better than they deserve. And it does make me wonder that with production values as good as these maybe my film-school mates and me could have rocketed to stardom after only our first term.