"Alphaville" (1965) is directed by Jean-Luc Godard (Breathless). It is witty take on sci-fi, and film noir. This is a sci-fi film with no special effects except for the polarized images towards the later part of the film which seem to represent the view of, and the failure of, the computer Alpha 60. This is a film about films that is referencing a number of genres. It is also a film of ideas. It is about the suppression of the human will by systems that demand order. Most of the people in the film, except for the lead character, Lemmy Caution (Eddie Constantine), are either robots or humans that have been drained of free-will. Lemmy is a pulp character that Eddie Constantine has played in previous movies who represents a kind of virulent, rebellious life force. The fascist computer that oversees everything is Alpha 60, and it has outlawed thought and feeling. People are executed for crying, or feeling compassion for another person. It is a book of surrealist poetry that Caution reads from that facilitates in the opening of the doors of thought and feeling, and eventually destroys Alpha 60. Faux-quotations from Paul Eluard's book "The Capital of Pain" represents an opposition to the role of logic imposed on the inhabitants of Alphaville. The use of poetry to open up human emotion also references back to Cocteau's 1950 film "Orpheus" where Orphee's recovery of his poetic powers results in his victory over Death. Another source for Godard and his stylistic construction of this film are the writings of Jorge Luis Borges, who weaved stories together from various genres. Many of the quotes in the movie are from Borges own writings, such as "A New Refutation of Time", including the opening line of the film.

References throughout the film emphasize this technocratic dictatorship as a lifeless world inhabited by zombie like beings, or by the living dead. Caution notes that teeth of a girl are small, and pointy, like those of a vampire. Professor Von Braun, the creator of Alphaville, is also know as Leonard Nosferatu (a reference to director F.W. Murnau's 1922 film). In a reference to Cocteau's "Zone de la mort" people stagger down corridors or cling blindly to walls when Alpha 60 is destroyed.

This DVD is presented in a 1.33:1 aspect ratio, and is in Dolby Digital Mono, in French, with English subtitles. A widescreen format 1.66:1 was originally seen in theatres, and on the VHS, but with bars, and so evidently didn't represent more image. This is a new digital transfer (1998), but it doesn't appear to be remastered, or cleaned up. This is a rather bare bones release for Criterion, though the DVD does come with a pamphlet of a critical review by Andrew Sarris.