Bitch Slap...wow...where to begin?  First let me offer a word of caution...if you're a Xena/Hercules fan and you're buying/renting this movie because of Michael Hurst, Kevin Sorbo, Lucy Lawless, etc., -DON'T-!  This movie doesn't even remotely...by the longest stretch of the imagination...have ANYTHING to do with those TV shows.  This is more like the folks who made those shows who got sick of the network censors and decided to cut loose afterward.  Secondly, if you are looking for good, clean, fun, intelligent entertainment with well done special effects, -please-...I beg you...for the love of god...do NOT rent/buy this movie!  LOL!!!  If you're going to sit there and compare this movie with Quentin Tarantino flicks or you're going to over-analyze the lighting or the special effects or if you truly want to evaluate the acting of the lead females...or even if you use expressions like "campy humor", this movie probably isn't for you.  It's also worth noting that, there is -a lot- of violence in this flick, this movie uses -a lot- of really foul language and while they don't show too much as far as real nudity goes, they do insinuate -a lot-...if you have young children around or you simply prefer the kind gentleness and mortality of a Disney movie, you're likely to be quite offended by "Bitch Slap".

It's probably worth mentioning that Lucy Lawless and Renee O'Connor do in fact have cameos and Kevin Sorbo does have a bit part in this movie and Michael Hurst does have a somewhat small leading role as a heavy but I would reiterate that if you're going to watch this movie solely because you're a Xena or Hercules fan, don't bother...their parts in this movie are very minor and barely worthy of comment in that regard.

So who is this movie for?  This movie was clearly intended to be shown on a large 60" flat panel screen...at a frat party kegger!  Imagine the 80's flick "Hard Bodies" as seen through the eyes of "Mad Max" with the production values of an old Godzilla flick (yes, the 'Zilla movies with the guy in the foam rubber suit!).  If you like "bad movies" and you aren't easily offended by language or the portrayal of the female anatomy, this movie is certainly worth checking out.  I will say that the comments and comparisons in regards to old Russ Meyer flicks are fairly accurate but I don't think most folks today who would be interested in this flick really know who the legendary Russ Meyer actually was.  That said, while I won't say this is a "bad movie"...although it really is...it's a movie that by it's very design was -intended- to be bad!  This movie actually does a very good "tongue in cheek" poke at a lot of things but particularly the whole action/adventure genre.  My initial reaction was that it truly is like watching a train wreck...it's just sooooo danged bad that you can't stop watching!  What's more is that just when you think that wreckage has finally subsided and you think it's just about over, the proverbial news helicopter crashes in to the train wreckage and the carnage just keeps going!  It's one of those very rare movies that I was actually a tad grateful when it was over -but- I know I'm going to watch it again and again...preferably without the wife around next time!  LOL!

The plot itself is fairly simple and straight forward...I won't go in to it too much because you can easily read about it elsewhere.  Essentially it's about 3 attractive women on a search for $200,000 in stolen diamonds.  This movie however isn't really about the plot...in Michael Hurst's own words, it's about "tits and guns"...if anything the plot really seems to have been added as an after-thought, LOL!  The humor isn't "campy", most of it is down right tasteless!  Not that I'm saying that's a bad thing by any means...if anything the way Michael Hurst delivers some of those lines (most of which are heavily laced with really bad, off the wall profanity) is truly a credit to him as an actor.  How he was able to deliver some of those lines with such a completely straight face is utterly amazing.  For that matter, the same can be said of the three lead females as well (who you can easily read about in other reviews)...as another reviewer said, you'll never get the word "Koodilicious" out of your head!  I really won't go in to the merits of their acting...that's not what this movie or this review is about but I will say they truly deliver some really outrageous lines with perfectly straight faces.

The special effects are...well...rather ingenious actually.  They're just good enough to be -almost- believable but just bad enough to remind you that this movie -is- a spoof and is not to be taken too seriously.  In reference to the folks who have made comments about the blatant over-use of CGI as being something less than desirable, it's -supposed to be-!  In fact one scene later in the movie was so bad that it was perfectly clear they were making fun of the whole "James Bond" genre and specifically "Die Another Day" (which for a "serious" movie had some -horrible- special effects!).  In a day and age where movie makers with computers can turn out priceless and very believable classics such as "Lord of the Rings", it's hard to imagine that the poor special effects in Bitch Slap were done this way by accident or due to low budget (which the movie certainly is)...the special effects are bad...as the whole movie is...by design.  Also while a few folks have made some negative comments about the constant flashbacks, personally I think it works well in this flick.  It's basically like they're telling the story (what little story there is) in reverse.  It's not the kind of thing I would want to see in every movie but here it just keeps you a little off guard as to what's going to happen next.  There actually is a pretty good plot twist and it's done in a way where they -tell you that it's coming- but they have you so confused that you just miss it completely!  Very nicely done.

If there's really any doubt about the intent of the movie in regards to it being even remotely serious, make sure you watch the credits all the way through.  Come on folks...this is a movie that's about slow gratuitous shots of the female anatomy, really bad, over the top language and dialog, a couple of fairly decent lesbian scenes, lot's of action...including one of the most drawn out "cat fight" scenes ever seen and...."tits and guns"...this movie has it all!  It wasn't intended to be some sort of cult classic (although I suppose the potential is there)...it's a cinematic "cheeze-fest"...a movie that was intended to be a piece of trash aimed at folks who honestly enjoy a really good piece of trash every now and again.  It's one of those movies where you sit there at the end and say to your best friend, "I can't believe we just wasted nearly 2 hours watching that...wait...we still have some beer left...let's watch it again!", LOL!!!  This is seriously a movie that was never intended to be taken seriously...at all...ever...and -that- is what makes it brilliant.

So in closing let me say that I -would- certainly recommend this movie to the -right- audience.  Again, this one would be ideal for a frat party kegger, maybe a bachelor party where the stripper canceled out or even a bunch of friends (male or female...but possibly not both together) just sitting around on a Sunday afternoon with absolutely nothing better to do...like charting your biorhythms or sorting your sock drawer.  If you -really- want good wholesome entertainment with great special effects, go watch "Pirates of the Caribbean" again.  On the other hand if you're looking for something that shows lots of scantly dressed women, bad language, explosions, flashback sequences, more scantly dressed women, lesbian scenes, guns, has slightly more of a plot than a good porno flick -and- goes well with cheese whiz and beer (all pretty much in that order mind you), this is most certainly the flick for you!  It'll make you laugh...it'll make you cringe...and it will certainly make you wish you had NOT taken your girlfriend to see it on your second date! Bitch Slap...it's about "tits and guns".  Enough said.