The movie dates from 1979, so by now it's more than thirty years old.  Having watched it last night, I can only say it shows its age.  In a way Escape From Alcatraz is as revealing of the 1970s as a typical 1950s movie would be revealing of that decade.  Consider first of all that the film depicts not just a state prison, but one that houses criminals from the entire United States, and the toughest ones at that.  That's got to be one interesting community--though the viewer will note that African Americans are significantly under-represented, relative not only to the percentage of the US population that was black, but especially to the disproportionately large percentage of African Americans that are in prison today.  Apparently the most dangerous and most incorrigible criminals in the early 1960s were overwhelmingly white.  And that is only the first of several surprising historical facts that await us in this movie.

After an admittedly unpleasant altercation in the shower on the first day--with the one truly rotten apple in the entire prison--the movie goes on to open a window onto a world full of gentle and mutually supportive inmates, ready to open up about their pasts even to newcomers (with stories that invariably reveal them to have ended up in Alcatraz due to extraordinary bad luck), and not afraid to show their sensitive and vulnerable side.  (The Clint Eastwood character stands out as the tough guy mainly because he looks brooding and cultivates a reluctance to speak.)  Also, refreshingly, nobody smokes--making Alcatraz one of the very few smoke-free environments you were likely to encounter in 1962.

These inmates are offered amenities that make Alcatraz a veritable paradise, at least as compared, say, to your average Medieval monastery, or to prisons in less developed countries around the world.  In fact, one reason why the movie is so unbearably slow is that the prisoners seem to be spending endless amounts of time just relaxing outside, basking in the sun, playing baseball, or strolling around.  And that is not even the best part of their day.  There is a well-stocked library at Alcatraz, with books and magazines brought to you daily on your doorstep.  There are regular movie nights.  There is a prison jazz band.  There is a workshop with all the tools and materials you can ask for, in which you are allowed to make anything your fantasy chooses to dream up.  There are painting privileges, which means having an assortment of canvases, paint brushes, and an oil paint kit in your very own cell.  (The prisoners consider it a grave injustice when these privileges are suddenly denied to one of the inmates, and the movie encourages us to perceive this as cruel and unusual punishment.)  Oh, one more thing: the Clint Eastwood character casually mentions at one point that he is going to "order" an accordion. The next thing you know he has one in his prison cell, with no obligation to play it, let alone play it well. (Nowadays you can't get a decent accordion for under $300.)

All of this at taxpayer's expensive: I wonder how such a prison system would go down with American voters today.  In fact I wonder how any prisoner could have been desperate enough to want to escape from Alcatraz.  I'm sure it sucks to have your freedom taken away, but that is not necessarily an injustice if the years you spend in prison are the dues that society exacts, and has a right to exact, after you committed armed robbery or multiple homicide.  Maybe a person of more than average intelligence might even come to accept that society must do something about the kind of violent crime he committed, and that he cannot expect the system to make an exception for him.  But although the Clint Eastwood character is said to have an exceptionally high I.Q., reasonableness of this kind is not among his strong points.  From Day One he is thinking about escape, as if it were somehow a basic human right, even for a career criminal like him, to walk free among the rest of us, no matter what danger he might present to society.  Whatever made him so determined not to pay his dues to society, it cannot have been conditions at Alcatraz.

A word about the guards.  Let it not be said that these are completely oblivious to anything suspicious going on. In fact they come close to discovering the plot on a number of occasions.  That it nevertheless remains undetected is due not to the prisoners' cunning, or their ability to not act suspiciously, but rather to the guards' extraordinarily readiness to give them the benefit of the doubt.  For a maximum security prison they do seem unusually trusting. Does it smell around the main character's cell like he has been doing some DIY welding? Sure it does, because he's just had to light several hundred matches at once to reach the required temperature. Yet the guard who remarks upon the sulphur smell, a few minutes later, is quickly reassured because the prisoner himself declares convincingly that "I don't smell nothin'." Is there a loud noise coming from the corridor above the cells?  Sure there is, because our escapees are busy cutting through metal bars with the help of an air fan turned electric saw. Yet the guard who hears it decides, after listening more carefully for a few seconds, that it was probably nothing, for no sound is genuinely suspicious unless you hear it a second time.

Yet in a way all this makes the movie kind of endearing.  It dates back to a time when this depiction of prison life seemed totally realistic, and perfectly unobjectionable, to American movie audiences.  The film did not provoke an outcry about wastefulness in the prison system coupled with a demand for lower taxes. It shows a kinder and gentler world, in which even the toughest criminals were nicer than most of your colleagues in the workplace today, in which inmates were treated well, in which they were encouraged to develop their creative faculties, allowed recreations of all kinds, lived relatively stress-free lives--and in which even the few who repaid these kindnesses with the cynical affront of a prison escape came off looking like heroes in the end.  Treasure this movie, folks, for those days will never come back.  Not within your lifetime anyway.