In 1971 Peter Bagdanovich gave us the superlative "The Last Picture Show". With a cast of virtual new commers, Timothy Bottoms, Cybil Sheapred, Jeff Bridges and Randy Quaid, Bagdanovich caught lightening in a jar. Then in 1973 he chose to pair father and daughter, Ryan and Tatum O'Neil to give us one of the seventies most memerable movies, Paper Moon.

"The Last Picture Show" was a glimpse into the lives of lonely and misbegotten characters, living in a down-and-out, oil-bust Texas town. They're all waiting for that last flicker of hope to shine before the camara winds down and the movie house goes dark. "Paper Moon" explores the incredible journey of two unlikely souls adrift in the American heartland during the depths of the great depression. The background sounds of radio broadcasts connects the viewer with the popular figures of the times. The voices of Jack Benny and Fred Allen along with the music of Ozzie Nelson, Paul Whiteman and Tommy Dorsey all remind us of the innocence of the day. The voice of "Frankie" Roosevelt tells us of the hard times Americans faced amid sky-high unemployment, record drought and even bank failures. As in "The Last Picture Show", Bagdanovich knows exactly how to integrate the background "radio chatter" into the scene with perfection.... "Yes folks, let's have another cup of coffee and let's have another piece of pie". For Addie and Moze that next cup of coffee is a sleepy little town out across a dusty corn field...and that next piece of pie is some poor, unsuspecting widow waiting with false hope and a kind heart.

Easily two of my favorite movies, "The Last Picture Show" and "Paper Moon" are absolutely brilliant. Kudos to Peter Bagdanovich for such picture perfect and finely crafted motion pictures. Surely he caught lightening in a jar yet again. My only hope is that he has at least one more up his sleeve before he packs it all in. Bravo!!! and Thank you Mr. Bogdanavich!!!

P.S. A little triva...Who's the only actor or actress who had parts in both films?