If this isn't horror, then I don't want to know. Although I've seen a lot of effectively disturbing films, Funny Games has got to be the most uncomfortable of the lot. It is an unrelentingly cold film, just as it is equally clever to the point where I cannot help but smile at what I'm being subjected to. Yes, you could say I'm in on the "joke", so to speak, in the sense that I think that the director wants us to feel as though we're being laughed at. It is a shockingly honest film in that it deliberately plays to the viewer's desire for violence as entertainment and then brilliantly turns it around on us as if we are responsible for what is perpetrated on the unfortunate familly. How so? Take for instance the times that one of the psychopaths addresses us directly, daring us to succumb to our thirst for this "entertainment" by continuing to watch the sickening events unfold. By electing to show just a portion of the harrowing violence, Funny Games deliberately frustrates our expectations while at the same time forcing the viewer to imagine the horror in one's mind as the sounds of pain assault the ears. I wanted to see more, yet this movie deprived me of the heretofor unrecognized comfort I've had in at least seeing the main particulars of what is happening in other horror films. We are not given that satisfaction here. This is no doubt the best example of a movie that leaves one's mind to ponder and conjure the hell that is taking place by simply saying to us that we can't have it. It being the fullfillment of contentment of seeing the bad, thereby making it a manageable thing, by satisfying our morbid curiousity/fascination. Good Horror films are typically effective in that they provide scares(thrills)that ultimately have us feeling empowered("better them than me")and just isolated enough from the action by showing it to us. Its as if the more we see, the more we're numbed, the less impact we potentially feel. The less shown, if done in a certain, slow burn build-up way, the more tense the movie feels and the more uncomfortable one may become. Funny Games is this way, and waaay uncomfortable, because its akin to a high rollercoaster that takes awhile to get to the top, and proves that anticipation is worse than the outcome. But see, that's the "joke" in a way, the bad doesn't all erupt at once. I felt relieved in a sense that the ugliness was underway and quaking me, but the point I've been making is just as we start the rollercoaster descent into madness, instead of being entertained by being on the ride, we're thrown a loop and find ourselves at the controls, with the riders(actors)at our mercy. AND, if the movie hits you the right way, you'll feel almost guilty for not stopping the ride because of, as I said, morbid curiousity/fascination. This is the genious at work here. For example, one of the psychos "rewinds" a certain scene that any other film would deploy as a plot device to fullfill our contentment of seeing the bad done in a good, viewer "empowering" way(revenge, that motif that we expect at least in SOME point of a film consciously or not). This is perhaps Funny Games most cleverly innovative moment in that we are denied OUR fun, and its as if we're in no more control than the poor victims. That's what we, at least I, certainly get for sticking around, succumbing to morbid curiousity. Of course this movie is a love it or hate it type. Think about it if you didn't like it. You weren't expected to. As a movie, its superlative in its goal to have us feeling like unsuspecting voyeurs to heinous acts. Having a single disturbing scene shot by one camera for what feels like an eternity is bringing us into the scene itself, undistracted by multiple cuts/angles/edits. Its a cold atmosphere that refuses to shift, forcing us to stare unblinkingly in the face of a cruel aftermath. This is forced upon us, lingering in the reality that suffering isn't entertainment. I still managed a smile or two(and even more grimaces)at the laudably brave audacity of the plot(s) and total believability of the acting. There aren't any funny games. It isn't fun and games. Essential viewing because we all need the rug pulled out from us to make us think about why there can be a fine line between violence as entertainment and entertainment as violence.