The only downside to the first season of "Buffy" is that it's only 12 episodes long. Other than the fact that it's too short, the first season is a wonderful introduction to what would become one of the most original and well-written series in the history of television. This DVD set is a must-have as it introduces us to the wonderful world of "Buffy", it's lovable characters and witty dialogue. The series begins with the main characters in their sophomore year of high school. Buffy has just transferred to Sunnydale High after being kicked out of her school in L.A. for her 'violent behavior', which no one realizes is actually Buffy taking on her Slayer duties and protecting others from the threat of vampires. Upon transferring, Buffy has decided that she's had enough of the Slayer life and is determined to put it behind her. Little does she know that Sunnydale High sits right atop a hellmouth and that her being sent there is no coincidence. She goes on to make friends with Willow, a shy, geeky 'computer nerd' and Xander, a sweet, goofy sort of guy who harbors a major crush on Buffy. The cast also includes Giles, the school librarian, who is Buffy's Watcher, responsible for training Buffy both physically and mentally in her Slayer duties (and who will become an important father figure to Buffy), and Cordelia, the stereotypical popular girl in school who has a love/hate relationship w/ the gang and always seems to find herself right in the middle of their often gory situations. The mysterious Angel, who we meet in the first episode, will play a very important role in the show, but he does not become a series regular until the second season. The first season of "Buffy" is more on the light-hearted side than the seasons that follow. The villians they face won't pose as much of a challenge as the ones they'll face in the future and their lives aren't nearly as complicated quite yet. However, the season finale sets the perfect tone for what the show will become. Stand out episodes are the pilot "Welcome to the Hellmouth", "The Harvest", "The Pack", "Angel" and the finale "Prophecy Girl". Other episodes such as "The Witch" and "The Puppet Show" are also a lot of fun and better display the fabulous humor of this so-called horror show.