Mexican director Alejandro Gonz&aacute;lez I&ntilde;&aacute;rritu is known for his signature multi-protagonist plots introduced in his death trilogy, which included "Amores Perros," "21 Grams," and "Babel."  In "Biutiful," however, he zooms in on one character, Uxbal, a single father from Barcelona, facing terminal cancer.

Uxbal is a fascinating character with many good intentions that don't always translate into good deeds. While he truly cares for people (his brother even calls him the Dalai Lama), he actually makes a living from an operation where illegal Senegalese immigrants sell on the streets the counterfeited bags and pirated CDs produced in a sweatshop by a group of frightened Chinese who sleep on the floor of a locked basement.

So yes, Uxbal is a complicated hero, not perfect by any means, but because of Bardem's earnest performance you feel Uxbal's pain, and he also wins you over with the love he so tenderly expresses for his soon-to-be fatherless children, and for the father he never met. And that's what the movie is truly about: parenthood, how people, no matter their nationality, are always concerned with giving their kids a better life. You'll find that most of the characters (from Uxbal, to the police officer, to the sweatshop owner, to the main Senegalese immigrant) are trying to do what's best for their kids. But are their choices moral or even legal? Morality is a big theme here, and the movie will leave you questioning even your own.

To appreciate this film you need to understand I&ntilde;&aacute;rritu's style--bold and bleak and confrontational. He wants to shock you, make you angry, remove you from your comfortable place so you can experience some of the realities millions of people face everyday. Allow him to.

"Biutiful" is worth watching because of the many layers of the story, the stellar performances by Javier Bardem and Maricel &Aacute;lvarez, and the eye-opening social commentary.

Although it's hard to watch, "Biutiful" is beautiful in many ways, full of lyrical elements, from the first scene to the last.