I love this because it is challenging mentally as well as physically!!  For an exercise DVD, this type of workout is long overdue.  It is not for uncoordinated people, or those who rely heavily on cues. I recommend this to those who have had some dance training in their life - even if it's just a little....otherwise, you will feel extremely frustrated.

I did the breakdown/instructional part of the dvd (with her back to me) for two weeks - 3 or 4 days each week.  Each day, I started at the beginning - taking as much in as possible.  By the 3rd day, I did the run through of the first three with minimal mistakes... so I began concentrating on the fourth. I took a couple days off - but I would run them through my head...that really seemed to help them sink in. I did this when I couldn't sleep, so it was killing two birds with one stone =)  The second week I started with the fourth, and things seemed to click faster than the first week.  I was able to learn the remaining dances over the next 4 days. There were a couple days that I did this for 3 hours...I had no idea I was working on it that long b/c I enjoyed it!

The third week, I decided to try the actual cardio workout.  I definately had my moments/mistakes, but just kept on going - she repeats the dances so much, I kinda wished I had started the workout sooner. You will need a bit of room to move around - not good for small apartments. I recommend doing the warm up after the cardio is over, she just stops and heart rate is HIGH - the warm up is a great cool down- especially if you enjoy the music (badassjackson).

One big issue I had with this was footwear.  I have wood floors, and trying to do this workout in sneakers caused me to twist my knees.  I ordered Bloch dance sneakers and now my movement is continuous/flowing, a much smoother experience =)

This is an excellent cardio workout!!  Give it a few weeks to learn the moves, and you'll love it.  You will sweat big time, and feel energetic afterwards.  I look forward to more from Tracy.  All the posts about her past are just silly.  We all have pasts,plus look where she is now! I dont agree with what she did but karma will come her way. Buy the workout for the workout =)