I was so excited to get this DVD and watch it, and was truly hoping to love this movie.  Unfortunately, I was very disappointed.  The constant drama, scheming and wrangling, excessively verbose rambling dialogues and bellowing were non-stop.  Ambition was the only trait any character had.  The intensity was ratcheted very high, and never ebbed or flowed.  It was one dimensional the entire way through. The lines are often horribly delivered, by amazing actors no less, and I blame the script. While I understood the plot perfectly, I could not relate to any characters drive and motives, it was so overdone.  I couldn't summon up any emotional connection for these characters, except slightly for Princess Alais.
There were many main characters, 7 to be exact, and 0 other characters.  No secondary characters.  They basically had the screen all to themselves most of the movie.  Extras were rarely seen, and never had their characters developed.  No interesting ladies maids, castle servants, etc.  These 7 people were given pretty much the entire script.  This was better suited for the stage.

The makeup on Katherine Hepburn was horrendous.  Good lord, they weren't wearing makeup then, just wash the womans face and let her act.  The set was well done however, very believable, although it could have been a bit more elegant I thought, considering their stature as King and Queen.  It was very drab in coloring, and I realize this may have been to lend it authenticy, but they never took any opportunity to use color strategically.  In one scene, all three princes, plus the queen are standing together all wearing brown.  Nothing to break up the monotony.(Many period pieces can be colorful yet authentic, Braveheart, for example.) This movie came off more as an onstage play that happened to be filmed.  I was tired when it was over.  This will be going to the donation bin for me.  I will, however, give the Glenn Close/Patrick Stewart version a shot, as I really do love a good historical period piece.