Now that The Black Swan has become available on video, I rented it from Netflix and watched it last night. I have to admit that it wasn't at all what I expected, having seen several dance and ballet films throughout the years. Although I can't say that I would highly recommend seeing it, especially for young impressionable minds, I do feel it is worth thinking about the ideas it puts forth. The theme of good and evil permeates the story, as Natalie Portman struggles to dance the role of both the White Swan and the Black Swan. The White Swan, representing her purity and grace, as opposed to the Black Swan, which in this case represents her dark or shadow side. The choreographer who chooses her to dance the lead role, places her under constant pressure to get in touch with her dark side. He seduces her and bullies her into learning the part, all the while telling her that it is for her own success as a dancer. Some of her peer dancers play along and exhibit qualities far from their graceful appearance as ballerinas. The idea of cut throat competition, throughout the film, distracts us from the gift of this beautiful art form.

Natalie Portman is seemingly surrounded by evil as she struggles to maintain her balance both literally and figuratively. The pressures put on her by not only her dancing associates but by her own Mother, makes us wonder how she has ever survived this long. Her anxiety and self mutilation is her way of releasing the pressure she is under, while trying to do what she is most happy doing in life, which is to dance.

After surviving several encounters with her selfish competitors, that lead her to compromise her own personal integrity, she finds the courage to chose herself over losing herself and dances the role perfectly. However, her seeming accomplishment is not without a steep price and loss, especially that of her graceful innocence.

The film made me question the whole concept of sacrificing one's own integrity for the sake of one's art form. It brings to mind several famous art personalities, who have compromised their own integrity, only to pay the price with the loss of their own soul and life.

For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? Mark: 35