I like Twilight the most, Breaking Dawn second most, Eclipse third most, and New Moon 4th.  Twilight captivated me, Breaking Dawn tickled me, Eclipse soothed me, and New Moon dragged me along.  All three main characters showed more deep felt emotions in this movie than all the previous.  No sense going into the story line so I'll skip that, but this saga is pretty close to the book.  Most of the shots were "in doors" so you see more of the interior environment giving this segment more of a family feel.  Sorry no hot sex scenes--bedroom scenes yes, but no X rated sex scenes.  (The two disc special edition has a lot of behind the scene extras--explains Bella's pregnancy--it's a movie of its own and just as long--really would the extra bucks.)  What drove me batty is the different hair styles every Cullen member had in each saga: brown to blonde (ok, they could dye it), but short hair to long? (they could go from long to short as they cut it but you could only go so short because their hair don't grow back--that's my understanding anyway); and the wigs looked and screamed "wig, look at me, wig."  The different hair styles in each saga sort of broke the continuity of the story line, especially for the vampires since they are incapable of changing but it seems they change more than the humans.  On the wedding day, Edward's hair looked absolutely horrible, like a dried mop laying flat on his head.  After New Moon, my brain kept registering the different vampirers' hair styles; for me this was the most annoying aspect of the series.  When I was able to push aside the variant head-dresses, I got wrap up in the arms of the movie's magic and was transported, however temporary, into a life other than my same-old, same-old, and I was delightfully entertained.  For 1:40 minutes my brain got to relax, my worries were suspended, and I dreamt along in that make believe world for many unattended minutes--and smiled for no reason other than my body's natural reaction responding to cues on the screen.  There is a little teaser segment after the end credits, so don't miss that.  I enjoyed Breaking Dawn tremendously and the bonus disc was really informative and interesting.