This is one of those rare films that I find myself liking less each time I watch it.  At the time of it's original release (1966) Hitchcock was the reigning master of theatrical suspense, Newman was one of the world's top box office attractions, and Julie Andrews was a huge star coming off "The Sound of Music".  On paper it's hard to imagine how it could go wrong, but they managed to find a way.

I first saw the film in a USO theatre in Heidelberg where I was awaiting orders for a US Army assignment.  Unlike it's period contemporaries, "Torn Curtain" was a one dimensional espionage story played out against a simplistic world view that relied too heavily on it's stars to make up for a weak screen play.  While moderately successful, it didn't have the gravitas of the "The Ipcress File",  "Funeral in Berlin" or "The Spy Who Came in From the Cold.  The critics panned it, which didn't stop popular film audiences, but did keep it out of the extended run premier theaters which largely denoted the important films of the era.  Further, the public was becoming more sophisticated when it came to spy drama largely due to the novels of Len Deighton and John Le Carre which presented a grittier reality than Ian Fleming's 007 fiction of fantastical plots and tongue in cheek humor.  Watching US forces fight a real communist enemy on the television news had it's effect on the public and these simple good guy/bad guy story lines no longer fit the mood of the country.  In many ways "Torn Curtain" was a casualty of the times and, had it been produced a decade earlier, might have achieved greater success. A further contributing factor was the lack of chemistry between Newman and Andrews.  Both in their public persona and previous theatrical work, these are two people who shouldn't share a cab, let alone star opposite each other as a passion struck couple.  Newman's stock in trade was earthy sexual magnetism in flawed anti hero characters, not a good fit for the idealistic scientist/patriot he was asked to portray. He was Hud, Brick, Lew Harper or Cool Hand Luke; and  Andrews, whether she liked it or not, would forever be seen as Mary Poppins or Maria von Trapp.  Asking either to play against type was a bridge too far. Put them together with a disinterested or distracted Hitchcock and you've got a lemon in the making.

In  summation, "Torn Curtain" is a fairly simple 1950's style love story set against a cold war backdrop.  It contains none of the ambiguity or political introspection that the genre was soon to embrace and seems more suited as a Cary Grant/Grace Kelly vehicle from a decade earlier.  It's not a bad movie, just one that doesn't come near it's potential.  All things being equal, it likely would have been a bigger hit in the mid 50's than in the turbulent 60's, and possibly would have come at a time when Hitchcock was at the top of his game, rather than at the end.