GET CARTER is one of Michael Caine's greatest films, probably my personal favorite! With its gritty style and brilliant central performance, this is a stunning crime thriller.

Low-level London gangster Jack Carter (Caine) returns to his childhood home of Newcastle to find out who killed his brother, and why! In a way, Carter becomes a detective, trying to solve this very personal mystery, by any means necessary!

A ruthless professional, Jack Carter is cautious and calculated and never allows himself to get too close to anyone, not even those willing to help him uncover the truth. He dismisses a friend just as casually as he would an enemy! After all, when you're in his line of work, you can't afford to be too emotionally involved.

Then something happens!

While investigating his brother's death, Jack discovers that another relative - someone close - has been dragged down into his underground world. Someone too young, too innocent. For one powerful moment, Jack Carter's wall breaks down, and his emotions explode! The normally calm professional becomes an animalistic killer. Driven by hatred and bent on revenge, Carter kills his victims without prejudice, whether they're guilty or simply in the way!

Michael Caine is magnificent! He purposefully sheds his charming persona and becomes the ultimate antihero in Jack Carter. In any other film, Carter would have been the villain, and an intimidating one. But in GET CARTER, we sympathize with the character because we understand his mission, and because Caine allows us opportunities to witness Carter's human side, rare they might be. Nonetheless, Caine never lets us forget Carter's darkness, and the moment we start to root for him, he snaps us back into the realization that Jack Carter is not a good person. And you can't take your eyes off Caine! GET CARTER is as much a character study as it is a thriller. Kudos to the film's director Mike Hodges for allowing his lead actor to create such a flawed protagonist, without apologies.

Hodges should also be praised for showcasing the city of Newcastle as an important character in the film. There's enough darkness and grit instilled within the streets, pubs, and people to remind Jack Carter that he is unmistakeably home.

As the director, Hodges takes an interesting minimalist approach in terms of the music, cinematography and overall style, but it works perfectly! GET CARTER is a lean, mean masterpiece! And while his cast is uniformly superb, Michael Caine turns this masterpiece into a tour de force by delivering one of his greatest performances!