This is one of the best survivor series ever, there are some matches which definately deserve a look.

Spike Dudley def Kidman, Mysterio and chavo (retains cruiserweight title) awesome edge of your seat cruiserweight action and by the way i really thought chavo deserved to win. 9.5/10

Shelton Benjamin def Christian (retained Intercontinental title) this was actually MUCH better than i thought, shelton benjamin is a tremendous athelete and i think he should be a top contender for the worlds title. Tomko gets involved a little, shelton with an awesome dragon whip knocking him off the apron then christian goes for the unprittier and its countered to a t-bone for the 3 count. 9/10

Smackdown classic elimination match

John Cena returns with out rapping or going crazy or tagging the fans hands but chases carlito out of the arena. He beats up Hesus but Carlito then takes a womans car and drives out of the arena therefore is no longer part of the match. It was a quiet dissapointing match but most importantly Cena's back! and he gets a U.S title shot on Smackdown! Eddie's team win after eliminating kurt at the end with an f-u and a frog spalsh 6.5/10

Undertaker v.s Heidenrich

Again im not a very big fan of undertaker's match's but it was ok. I prefered it when he had his old character. Taker wins by a tombstone. 6/10

Lita v.s Trish

i really can't rate this cause it wasn't even a match. I thought it was gonna come out as a great fight but instead Lita went mad and disqualified herself by whacking Trish twice with a steel chair then busting her nose open by whacking her on the steps.

Jbl v.s Booker T

For god's sake is jbl ever gonna win fair and square? i was really looking forward for booker to become a six time champ. jbl retains by a title shot. 7.5/10

Randy's team v.s HHH team

Match of the night! im really happy with the result. Order of eliminations:

1.) Benoit by edge

2.)Batista by orton's title shot and jericho's runnin enzuguri

3.)Snitsky by DQ, whacked, jericho, orton and maven with chair therefore:

4.) Maven by HHH (Snitsky's steel chair shot)

5.)Jericho by Edge's spear

6.) Edge by RKO

7.) HHH by RKO

Therefore RKO's team control raw for 4 weeks, each superstar takes a week.

AWESOME payperview. Watch it if u love Orton!