"The Mask of Zorro" is a rare case of an action movie that doesn't break any boundaries, yet doesn't seem formulaic.  Zorro is the legendary fictional hero who protects the people against tyrannical villains, usually clownish Mexican soldiers and greedy bureaucrats.

As most are aware, the story begins when Diego De La Vega, aka Zorro, (Anthony Hopkins) does one last good deed for the locals by bringing the greedy Rafael Montero (Stuart Wilson) to justice.  But Montero finds Zorro's secret lair and exacts heart-braking vengeance upon him, Diego's daughter is stolen and is imprisoned for twenty years.  Later, the daughter grows into the beautiful Elena (Catherine Zeta-Jones), who knows nothing of her true past.

The other arc that intertwines is that of Alejandro Murietta (Antonio Banderas), who also loses everything when confronted by one of Montero's goons, the ruthless Captain Love (Matt Letscher).  Alejandro and Diego, now escaped from prison, team up to bring both men to justice, and do so with the presence of a hero long-absent, but never forgotten---Zorro!

The acting in this movie is perfect for an action/adventure, because the actors bring more to the screen than the script probably suggested.  Banderas brings so many layers to the character of Alejandro: first a clownish thug, then a man who can only quench his thirst for vengeance by becoming a charming noble.  Hopkins, as always, has a believeable screen presence, and always helps us see what a tortured soul he really is, yet manages to keep his patient resolve.  And Catherine Zeta Jones in her pre-Oscar role is more than a damsel in distress.  In fact, Elena Montero is never a damsel at all.  She's a sexy, feisty woman who never loses courage in the face of turmoil.  She's really an exceptional heroine.  Martin Campbell (the director) never allows his female characters to be useless pawns (see "Golden-Eye"), and this is no exception.

The villains, however, are also better than expected.  Stuart Wilson worked with director Martin Campbell in "No Escape" as a cannibalistic gang-leader, who frankly sent chills down my spine everytime I saw him.  Here, his character of Montero isn't necessarily evil, but has no problem taking extreme measures to satisfy his own greed.  The underrated success of this film, in my opinion, is the performance of Matt Letscher as Captain Love.  Love is a sadistic soldier whose viciousness is matched by his exceptional swordsman skills.  Every scene when Banderas and Letscher are together is simply amazing, because so much has been established that we can barely stand the tension between them.  The obligatory moment where Love and Alejandro (as the new Zorro) finally staredown for a final fight is simply breathtaking, because so much anger and determination has climaxed to this one moment!  It's really an impressive moment---so simple, but so heart-pounding.

But beyond the acting is also a high-quality production.  The sets and costuming are authentic (no "Wild Wild West" anachronisms here), the music by James Horner is one his best score's to date, the sound effects are crisp and sharp, the photography is gorgeous as it captivates the beauty of the red sunsets, and the action sequences are awesome!  The swordfights are well-choreographed, and never use digital effects to "enhance" the action.  There is a neat horse chase, and the final sequence in a Mexican mine is intense and breath-taking!

"The Mask of Zorro" is what action/adventure should be.  Funny, sexy, fast-paced, well-acted, and exciting all amidst a top-notch production!  Trust me on this, this movie is NEVER boring!  Because the DVD doesn't cost much, and is packed with excellent Extras...you can't go wrong.