I saw this movie many years ago, in the non-director's cut.  So much to like, the gritty realism, the shades-of-gray nihilism that separates the law from the outlaw, as well as the strong acting of James Coburn and Kris Kristofferson.  Oh, and that beautiful, sad, soundtrack written and performed by Bob Dylan.  Even his acting was half inarticulate, half art.  However, the editing and flow of scenes was so choppy as to border on incoherent.  A local video store still had the video copy of the Director's Cut, so I recently rented it to see if the new edit improved this film.  Unfortunately, it did not.  In fact, some scenes were arguably made worse.  This is still a muddled mess.

After the initial setup of who Pat Garrett and William Bonney were, the movie lapses into a muddled series of scenes where sometimes we don't know who is who, where we are, and where we are going.  Two of the worst include the scene in the bar where Pat has Alias take away the barkeep's shotgun and pull his hat over his head, then read off the labels on the cans on the shelf while Pat plays cards with the other henchman.  The other is when the John Beck character (Poe) shakes down the doddering old ranchhands for information about Billy the Kid.  Why would they all of a sudden talk, and give factual information?  And why, after telling the ranch-interest toadies where they can stick their advance on the reward, does Pat allow Poe along, even after Poe admits to Pat over a campfire that his loyalties are not with him?

Oh, by the way, Jason Robards is playing some relatively obscure general, the military governor of the New Mexico territory, not any general you might know.  I only figured that out in the following scenes, and checking the credits.

The first of the two scenes arguably made worse in the Director's Cut was when Billy escapes and turns the sadistic deputy's shotgun (wadded with half a roll of dimes) on him.  I recall the slow-motion of the devastating coin shrapnel shooting out of the shotgun to be more drawn out in the original version.  The second is the death scene of the Slim Pickens character (Sheriff Baker).  The best song on the soundtrack ("Knockin' on Heaven's Door") is truncated, and the lyrics removed, in this version.

The final indignity suffered by the audience is that Mr. Coburn's distinctive and gritty voice has been so overexposed from his work doing Chevy Truck commercials, that when Pat Garrett rounds up the posse to go after Billy, you almost expect him to round the corner and jump in a Blazer or Tahoe.

Unless there is yet another Director's Cut awaiting release on DVD, the flaws in this one are probably why the studio may view a new release as unmarketable.

*** UPDATE ***

I quickly snapped up the new 2-disc special edition on DVD when it was finally released.  I almost wonder if the studio read some of these reviews, including my own, as many of the weak points of the Director's Cut have finally been fixed.  For example, the illogical scene with Poe interrogating the miners was cut, and the Slim Pickens death scene has the Bob Dylan lyrics restored.  And of course, the scene with Pat and his wife finally syncs up the best available current version with most of Peckinpah's choices in his unreleased, personal cut of the film.

Helping this new DVD edition along is the quality of the print, which is nearly scratchless with perfectly realistic colors.  A character study film with lots of closeups of gritty, real-life characters filmed in natural light is going to be demanding on the accurate rendition of flesh tones, and the DVD does not disappoint in this regard.

Still a flawed masterpiece, but much improved, and arguably the truest to Peckinpah's original vision.