Things To Come is a stunning view of a quixotic future, with an apocalyptic End of Days followed by a millenarian Rebirth. The vision of Raymond Massey staring into the night sky as Humanity's seed is flung to  the stars, asking "All or nothing. Which shall it be?" is matched  in its emotional power only by Edmund Gwenn's "Nobody can  predict" closure in Them, and underscores Mankind's impetus to the  stars that drives us today. Behind the images, Things To Come provides a  wealth of insight into England's intellectual milieu in the 1930s. Massey's  horror at the prospect of a new world war, and his companions' disbelief  that any power or statesman could contemplate one, reflects the war-weary  nature of the British public in 1935 and the country's refusal to  acknowledge that Hitler, who had just come to power, had more in mind than  mere bluff. "Another speech by him? It's nothing I tell you.  Threatened wars never occur." The subsequent locust-like invasion of  England by hordes of foreign aircraft flying over the cliffs of Dover was  prophetic in that this actually occurred shortly thereafter in 1940. The  film is steeped in Marxist ideology, as were English intellectuals at the  time. TTC suggests that war is not waged by particular humans but is a  function of capitalism, and can only be prevented by a total transformation  of society. The futuristic civilization that finally emerges is the ideal  of 1930s English socialism. A society of workers is ruled by a committee of  technocrats headed by Massey who defends "our Revolution" by  forcibly suppressing all independent states (with "peace gas"  thus distinguishing those poorly bred Bolsheviks who actually shot people).  One almost sympathizes with Cedric Hardwicke when he leads a new revolution  against Massey's descendant, except that his own vision is retrograde and  even less tolerant than Massey's, if that were possible. One of my top ten,  TTC is worth a close study. Far from detracting, the grainy black and white  print adds to the impact.