This review pertains to the June 2008 release of the Meridian Collection remastering of "The Red Violin". This well-crafted saga of how a priceless, one-of-a-kind violin is passed onto various owners over time and in several countries, has been beautifully remastered. Presented in anamorphic widescreen and enchanced for widescreen TVs (16x9 aspect ratio, no black bars--the picture fills the entire screen), the picture is crystal clear and the colors are fresh and vibrant.

I viewed this DVD on a 46-inch Samsung LCD high definition TV, played on a Toshiba 1080p HD DVD player--and the picture and sound are stunning. If you play this DVD on a player that can "upconvert" a regular DVD (such as this release),the resulting image is already high definition--no need for a separate Blu-ray or HD DVD edtion.

The movie is itself, is of course, quite engaging and has more of a European/foreign film flair about it. The only well-known American movie star in this film is Samuel Jackson, who, although he is somewhat miscast in this role (as other reviewers have also noted), still manages to make his character believable--his inclusion in this movie was not a train wreck for me. The rest of the cast is quite good, although likely to be largely unknown to American audiences. If you appreciate beautiful violin music, accurate and elaborate period sets, other cultures and foreign languages (English subtitles are provided)--then you will love this film.

The "R" rating for this film could have easily been avoided. There are two brief scences in one segement of the story involving partial nudity, one of which is a sex scene (involving the violin, no less), but these scenes are not graphic or violent--one of them is actually more like a pose ("caught in the act" as it were). These scences could easily have been modified without compromising the plot, resulting in a PG-13 or even PG rating instead. Otherwise, there is no profanity or violence anywhere else in the film. This is a very light "R" film. I have seen PG-13 films that contain a greater amount of more objectionable material (frequent cursing, double entendres, etc.). This is a film that you will watch again and again. The Meridian Collection edition of "The Red Violin" is Highly recommended!