You really take your life in your hands every time you sit down with a Chevy Chase film. Let's face reality here: Chevy Chase is responsible for several of the worst movies ever made. Does it take more than a few minutes to see the mind numbing folly of "Nothing But Trouble," "The Three Amigos," and "Spies Like Us"? Chase has sure had his truly embarrassing moments on the big screen. What redeems the guy is this 1985 classic, the truly great "Fletch." With the possible exception of the "Vacation" films and "Fletch," Chase rarely found a vehicle that played up to his deadpan, smart alecky comedic delivery. In the role of newspaper reporter Irwin Fletcher, Chase makes the character all his own as he knocks it out of the ballpark in this ultra funny, well-crafted film based on a plot involving drug trafficking, bigamy, and murder. If I had to draw up a list of the top five films I have watched the most, "Fletch" would appear somewhere on that list. I've probably watched this movie forty or fifty times since it originally came out, and I never tire of his corny impressions and awesome lines. "Fletch" is an unmitigated classic.
Fletch writes articles for a big Los Angeles newspaper under the pseudonym Jane Doe, and he's always on the lookout for a good story. After going undercover on a local beach where he poses as a drug addict and mixes with other users and dealers, Fletch finds himself in the middle of a murder for hire deal when a rich executive named Alan Stanwyck (Tim Matheson) wants Fletch to do him in for a stack of money. Further problems with more questions than answers follow: who is Alan Stanwyck, and why are the police acting suspicious on the beach where all that heroin is floating around? Fletch's investigations into Stanwyck's past uncover a plethora of dirty deals: bigamy, drug dealing, and possible links between the police department and the crooked executive. As Fletch narrows down the scope of these scams, he continually dukes it out with his indifferent editor who never believes anything the reporter says. The investigation takes Fletch to Utah, on high-speed car chases through the city, into a jail cell with a gun pointed at his head, and into the arms of Stanwyck's beautiful wife. Fletch never doubts he will crack the case wide open and get the scoop of the year at the paper, but sometimes it looks as though he won't get out of this one alive. One of the best things the movie has going for it is this multi-layered mystery story, which is loaded with great twists and turns all the way to the end.
If "Fletch" was merely a murder/mystery story, it wouldn't achieve immortality; it's the comedy that makes this one an enduring cult classic. Fletch has a habit of using outrageously cheap disguises in order to pump people for information, and along with these costumes he always throws out a fake name to go along with it. At various times during the course of the film, Fletch claims his name is Harry S. Truman, Don Corleone, John Cocktosten, Dr. Rosenrosen, Ted Nugent, Mr. Babar, and Mr. Poon (a name that Fletch reveals is of "Comanche Indian" lineage). He gets away with such outrageous behavior because he talks fast and most people don't listen to everything he says. Most of Chase's lines in this movie are hilariously inappropriate, and it quickly becomes apparent that there are very few comedians/actors who could toss out this type of dialogue and get laughs. Chase does it easily and believably. It takes several viewings just to pick up on everything he says.
The supporting cast in "Fletch" is stellar, with Richard Libertini as Fletch's editor Frank, Geena Davis in a small role as a newspaper employee who worships the ground Fletch walks on named Larry, Joe Don Baker as the psychotic Police Chief Karlin, George Wendt as the seedy heroin dealer Fat Sam, George Wyner as the relentless attorney of Fletch's ex-wife, and M. Emmet Walsh as the "handy" Doctor Dolan. Everyone does a great job serving as cannon fodder for Fletch's sharp barbs. These barbs are some of the best you will hear in a motion picture: "Can I borrow your towel? My car just hit a water buffalo," and "Oh. Do you have the Beatles White Album? Never mind, just bring me a cup of hot fat. And the head of Alfredo Garcia," and "I would have been here sooner, but a manure-spreader jackknifed on the Santa Ana. You should see my shoes." Anyone else trying to pull this off would fail miserably, but again, Chase does a wonderful job with the jokes.
The DVD release is wickedly lackluster. We don't get anything in the way of extras except a trailer and some production notes, but at least the movie does come in a widescreen format. I've heard that some of the discs don't have ANYTHING but the movie on them, but I haven't seen one of these flawed discs personally. Either way, why is there no commentary from Chevy Chase on here? Could you imagine how great it would be to hear him wax philosophically about the G. Gordon Liddy segment, or his encounters with Gail Stanwyck at the resort? We desperately need a special edition version of "Fletch" in the near future. Just writing this review makes me want to watch the movie again, and I know I'll laugh at it as hard as I did the forty other times I've seen it. "Fletch" is simply a massively entertaining treat.