I've been a fan of Drawn Together since it first went on the air, so when it was finally canceled I have to admit that I was a little sad. Upon hearing of an uncensored movie, I had mixed emotions. While it was good to have some DT rather than none, I was worried that actually hearing the uncensored stuff might ruin the movie.

Foxxy Love has discovered something amazing. She & the rest of her castmates can not only cuss, but they can show full frontal genitalia & act as crude as they want. When she discovers that it is because of their show being canceled, her first action is to call the production company. Little does she know that this will cause them to gain the notice of the Network Head, who has his own reasons for wanting the entire cast gone.

This movie was OK, but I have to say that I was a little disappointed. Part of what made all of the vulgarity fun in the show was that it was all censored. Part of the gag of it being a reality show is that despite them doing so many things that *did* make it past the censors, the cussing & nudity was still bleeped or blurred out. With the censorship gone, the movie just seemed to lack the edge the show had once had.

Then there's the movie premise. Initially the idea of the gang trying to outrun an "eraser" named ISRAEL (complete with jokes) was interesting, but after a while the entire premise just felt thin. This was pretty much a half hour episode stretched out to just over an hour. There's also supposedly 3-D elements. I had a set of 3-D glasses lying around so I re-watched the scenes. The 3-D is really unimpressive, which might have been part of the joke. I'd rather that instead of putting the time into doing all of that, they'd worked on the story & humor a little more. I love crude humor but this just lacked. Oh, and guys? Constantly picking on South Park was only funny for the first 5-10 minutes.

There is enough in the movie to entertain (the Disney princess scene was sort of funny), but offhand I'm glad that I waited & got this via a rental. It just wasn't as funny as I hoped it would be. If you really want to complete your collection, go ahead & get this but I *really* suggest that you rent it first.