Sit down strap yourself in and hold on as we are about to go on an emotional roller coaster ride to the core of human emotions. "Beautiful Thing" is all this, and more; you will laugh, and cry, get angry, and then cry some more. As I started to explain this film, which will grab you and pull you in quite possibly like no other, to my employee, I started to break down; I don't do this very often. Tears are welling up now as I type this.

The film is about an adolesent young man, Jamie who lives with his "mum" in an English housing development along with is neighbores on one side, Leah ( who adds much comic relief ) and her mother, and Ste. ( short for Steven )another adolesent boy of the same age and his older brother and father on the other side.
In the openning secequence, Jamie is in his P.E. class ( with Ste.) and the other boys ridicule him viciously, not wanting him to join them in football ( British style ); humiliated ( I've been then there) after having his gym kit thrown over the fence he retrieves it, skips class and runs home. Ste., on the other hand is physicaly beaten by his abusive bother and father and lives in fear; unable to take the abuse any longer Ste. spends the night with Jamie sleeping head to toe in the same bed. Later on Jamie steals a gay magazine shows it to Ste. and discovers a gay "pub" across town and ask's him to join him; the mother knows something is up and follows them there, when later that night she confronts Jamie on his activies of that night, crying in his bed "Some things are just to hard to say" he tells his mother. Like a trailer to a film, I don't like to give the whole story away and ruin it for you; I really suggest that you avoid reading other reviews that do. I will say there isn't any frontal nudity; and it's a great film if you are just comming out or show it to your family or school  to dramitize the effects of gay bashing etc. either way, bring plenty of kleenx the ending will stick with you for a long time; for it is neither to sweet to be "sappy" and the acting is excellent to the point of being surreal; This could have been a major motion picture Hollywood style, I have never seen anything like it and the soundtrack form the "MOMMA'S & THE PAPPA'S adds a wonderful score.
 We as gay people have face and experienced rejection, hatred, bigotry and even murder; but in the end you will discover that life after all is, a Beautiful Thing.
If you get just one film this year, get " BEAUTIFUL THING "
( buy one copy for your video store too).