When I first heard the announcement of this release, I was immediately thrilled.  This opened up a new world of possibilities for a TV show collector such as myself.  I preordered it as soon as I noticed it was on Amazon.

Whereas many older TV series were shot in fullscreen, sometimes on videotape, That 70's Show was actually shot on film, in widescreen.  They just edited it to fullscreen for TV.  The public has never had the opportunity to see it like this before!  This is a show that we sometimes overlook when listing the great sitcoms of each decade.  Many forget that there was GREAT writing in this series - especially in the first three seasons.  I don't want to overstate it, but "Eric's Birthday", "Career Day" and season 2's "Kitty and Eric's Night Out" (which may be my favorite episode of ANY sitcom of all time) are SO GOOD, that I would put up against any other comedy - The Cosby Show, Seinfeld, Cheers, etc.

When I popped in the first episode, I was bit taken aback.  It didn't look great.  It was grainy, and there was a lack of consistency in the brightness.  Right away my heart sank in disappointment.  But the good news:  it's only like that for the first episode!!  Makes sense - it was the pilot, and maybe they didn't have the money at the time to make it look fantastic.  The rest of the episodes look crystal clear.  The widescreen is a great update, especially during dinner table scenes, where the extreme close-up shots get the characters really in your face, making it all the more hilarious.  The surround sound is great, too.

It's not very expensive, and yes, I did have the DVD, but personally, I'm glad that I made the upgrade.  It made me watch the season again from beginning to end, which I enjoyed thoroughly, and I enjoyed it even more in HD than I had in SD.  And my DVD copy?  I gave it to a teenager I know who has never seen it before, passing the proverbial torch to the next generation.  I haven't had a chance to watch the features yet, but it's good that it has all of the features from the DVD, plus new Blu Ray exclusives.

If I have one criticism, the volume for the menu (and the studio's logo sting before the menu) is WAY too loud.  I need to turn the volume down 50% each time I load it, or as an episode ends, or I will bother my neighbors.

Other than that, I would wholeheartedly recommend getting this.  Especially if you're like me - I was around the same age as the cast when the show first aired, so I when I watch it now, I get more out of it.  It's like going to Disney World as an adult - age and maturity give you a new level of appreciation.

Most of all, I thought it was important to purchase this collection because I want to encourage this and other studios to continue releasing older TV shows in HD.  As long as a show was shot on film like That 70's Show, the opportunity is there for a Blu Ray release, and as long as it's a show I love and the prices stay reasonable like this one, I'll keep buying them.