James Cameron is clearly the Werner Herzog of today's modern action film.  He never does things halfway and weather you like his films or not you have to respect his courage.  I personally love "The Abyss".  It's my favorite Cameron film because it typifies his work.  The acting is top notch and all out heart.  You never hesitate for two seconds when Ed Harris or Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio step onto the screen.  That's because Cameron creates the most realistic environment for his actors to work in.  If your characters supposed to be stressed then he's gonna make sure to do something that reflects that on the screen.  He dosen't pull any punches and I think that's why he's such a love him or hate him kind of filmmaker.  In the case of "The Abyss"  I got both sides.  The original film is offered on the first disc.  It's a great movie about and underground oil facility that has to rescue a downed American sub.  The military gets involved and like most movies that's when things go wrong.  I won't go any further than to say that the film does enter "E.T." terrain.  The performances are outstanding and the cinematography and effects are Cameron's typically brillant standard.  The second film....well, here's the delima.  Every time a special edition comes out you get a taste of the good and the bad.  A lot of times the extra footage is great, but there's always that one scene that just dosen't fit and you think to yourself "That should've stayed on the cutting room floor!"  With the special edition of "The Abyss" I thought I had finally found the perfect special edition.  That was until the end.  I won't tell you what happens but it angered me so much that I hated the rest of this film.  I will say this.  The last guy I need telling me that we are a waring race and that peace is the only way possible is James Cameron.  This is the guy who made "True Lies" and "The Terminator".  He's killed more men than Cecil B. DeMille.  I know I shouldn't be angry when someone offers hope and peace to the world but I can't help but wish it wasn't Cameron.  Also, like the thumbs up at the end of "T2" this was just way too sappy for me.