I have to say, I got this DVD as a Thai import while the American version was still quite expensive (for future reference, for Asian films, sometimes Thai imports are cheaper, and correct region with english subtitles, check it out sometime...).  Now that the English version has dropped to a decent price point, I would definitely recommend getting this movie.

I was afraid of the length of the film at first, but it is fairly well paced throughout.  The story moves and introduces new elements as you go along.  They even vary the camera shots for the kill scenes to mix things up.  Some are off camera, some are from below with no clear line of sight, some are varied film speed, etc. etc.  Because with a body count this high, it had potential to get very boring showing similar kills every time.... especially samurai style which is quick and no frills killing.

The reluctant teenage girl assassin played well too.  They could have explored her feelings a bit more in the matter.  There were some suppositions from her in the movie they didn't develop at all.  Just left them as hanging ideas.  Maybe they ended up on the cutting room floor.  Or maybe it doesn't play to Japanese viewing tastes to explore them.

I have two small gripes though....

The cinematography is inconsistent.  I could never make out just by watching this movie if this was big budget with some bad shots, or an independent movie with incredibly inventive shots.  There are some cool varied speed shots that are fun, and some filters applied to keep your eye in the screen.  There are parts that look incredible.  Then, there are some bad pans and cuts that look amateurish, and snap you out of the movie, but only momentarily.

Also, the swordplay scenes are not great in the beginning, as it is teenagers sparring with each other.  They look contrived and slow.  As the movie moves though, they seem to get better, perhaps they mixed the teenage assassins with stuntmen, so they got braver with the moves.

The main bad guy was extremely over the top, but I enjoyed him a lot.  I feel that will be a matter of the individual taste of the viewed whether or not you buy into him.

Lastly, the ending after the final big scene, you will realize there was a loose end to tie up, so they did..... which sort of made it a bit anticlimatic... but didn't detract from the overall feel of the film for me.

Everything else in this movie is pretty good.  If you enjoy Lone Wolf and Cub, you will like this.  Not nearly as polished, or as dark, but a fun ride through and through.