*****May Contain Semi-Pre-Conclusion Spoilers

I liked this film's predecessor, 28 Days Later. The concept and the thrills were good, so naturally, I had to check out the sequel to find out what transpired over the next 28 weeks.......

28 Weeks Later begins at the time of 28 Days Later at a cottage in the English countryside inhabited by 6 survivors who are hiding out from the infected. Among them are Don and his wife Alice, with an older couple, and twenty-somethings Jacob and Karen, the latter of whom is awaiting the safe return of her boyfriend, who ventured out 5 days prior, never to be seen again.

A knock at the door during lunch is hesitatingly answered, only to reveal a young boy in peril, whom they quickly let in. As he eats and tells of his terrors, Karen opens a small space in a boarded-up window to look outside and an infected reaches in and infects her immediately. Following a few moments of mayhem and further infection-spreading, Jacob flees, and Don, in an act of extreme cowardice or plain selfishness, also escapes, despite the pleas of Alice, who is left behind with the young boy to fend off the infected ones.

Apparently, Don knew that to stay behind and help anyone but himself would be the end of him. He hightails it to a boat which Jacob reached shortly beforehand. Jacob is attacked and taken down then Don manages to get away, unscathed. He winds up in a military camp and is quarantined as he awaits the return of his 2 children, Andy and Tammy.

Enter 28 Weeks Later.....Britain is gradually being repopulated. At this point, there are 15,000 civilians who have been allowed back under U.S. Military-Guarded Code Green Confinement. Tammy and Andy are the first and only children who have been allowed back post-virus after having stayed in USA since the initial outbreak.

Don tearfully breaks the news to the kids about their mother, convincing them in an off-handed manner that she was killed and he did all he could do to save her or at least, by golly, to save himself. There is no doubt he regrets his actions and presently has deep remorse. At this point, he may be in denial or may be simply flat out exaggerating his would-be heroics. It was lost on me.

That night, young Andy tells Tammy that he will not be able to recall his mom's face, that he does not even have a photo to remember her by, so the next day the 2 kids escape (without much problem) to return to their family home to retrieve photos and certain items. There they find their mother alive at the same time the military swarms in to recapture the 2 young refugees. Alice (the mother) is put in restricted quarantine and strapped down while left unmonitored (via monitors), unwatched (in person), and unguarded (outside the door).

Medical officer Scarlett determines that Alice was clearly bitten by an infeced one, yet shows no symptoms. She is a carrier of the virus with natural immunity. It is a genetic abnormality that could be imperative in
leading to a cure and she is thus deemed as either invaluable for further testing or else as a curse to get rid of. As this is being discussed between the General and Dr. Scarlett, Don gets into Alice's room, steals a kiss, and becomes instantly infected. Don then goes on the run and the infection is rampantly spread, ensuing in mass chaos, whereby the military enforces Code Red Status to target and kill any and all civilians.

Meanwhile, Scarlett and military officer Doyle understand the importance of protecting and preserving Andy and Tammy, for one or both of them may carry their mother's gene that could lead to a cure, thus do all they can to help the kids to safety. Of course their plan is impeded all the way
by the infected ones and the military, as they race to a certain location to be picked up by Doyle's helicopter pilot pal Flynn (played by Harold Perrineau -- Michael from TV's Lost).

That's the synopsis, more or less. As others have said, the plot holes are many. As well, an utter sense of purposlessness was prevalent once the protagonists grew increasingly outnumbered. There was overall intensity throuhout, plenty blood and gore, fine acting, with a few too many less-than-intelligent characters. All in all, a good action/thriller movie for anyone not wanting to get too seriosly involved. As a sequel,
it was entertaining enough, but in my opinion, 28 Days Later was the better of the two. There seems to be varying opinions on that. My expectations were maybe too high on this flick after seeing somewhat above-average reviews. I will say I was not bored because I had too many questions.

I had to wonder:

1) Were we supposed to care about Don? I certainly didn't.
2) How or why did Don keep popping up in scenes involving his children? I
  kept thinking "isn't he dead yet?"
3) Why were the 2 kids able to return to Britain in the first place since
  no kids were allowed back yet?
 4) I presume the US military was brought in because Britain's
  military had been expended? Nice way to fictionalize or showcase the
  U.S. military as incompetent and rash in decision-making.
5) Were the kids to blame for new outbreak by finding thier virus-
  carrying mother? Or was Don to blame for kissing her and spreading the
  Rage anew? Or was the military to blame for lax regulations?