Have you ever wondered what goes on behind the scenes with your food before it reaches your plate? While most of us might not realize exactly what goes into our food, or at times not even think about it. But director Robert Kenner and his production team seek to bring out the truth about what goes on behind the scenes of the food industry and make it transparent so we all know the truth about what goes into our food so we can make more decisions about what we put into our body.

There's a lot of mystery in what goes on with our food. Whether it's ingredients we have no idea what they are, or whether it's the general process through which our food goes through, there's a lot that we don't know. The food industry hasn't really helped us in finding out either. Shrouding the farms that work for major industry markets in secrecy, and restaurant chains fighting tooth in nail to avoid giving us nutritional values for the meals we eat it seems as though the food industry as something to hide.

As depicted in Food, Inc. the food industry does have a lot to hide. Not only do the ingredients that go into our food seem less than savory, but their deplorable treatment of stock animals, farmers, and workers are enough to make anyone sick to their stomach. The filmmakers don't just attack their query though, they try to present both sides of the story from the consumer to the market leaders, unfortunately in the case of the market leaders they more often than not decline to be interviewed. And while this documentary might not answer all of our questions about the food industry, it definitely does a great job at helping us realize that things must change.

In the end Food Inc. doesn't just tell us about our food, but how the industry has changed things in America altogether. From appointed government officials who formerly worked for big name corporations and have influenced legislation on their behalf, to the food industry's influence on illegal immigration this film approaches all aspects of the trade. I highly recommend this film, not only to open your eyes to what your eating, but to help you understand how and why things need to change.

5/5