The director and cast have done a fine job in putting this multi-layered screenplay together as a film. If you're not familiar with the play, or the story, you may have to watch it again to catch some of the nuances. That may be difficult, because the subject matter is so gut-wrenching at the emotional level.  See the other reviews below for more details.  Personally, I think Margaret Edson did a wonderful job balancing the pain and suffering with genuine humor and warmth, although the humor comes across better on stage.
I first saw "Wit" in its original performance at South Coast Repertory Theater in Costa Mesa, California, and thought it was the finest play I had ever seen. Since then, we've seen it twice more on the stage, most recently at the Barter Theater in Abingdon, Virginia. In every instance, the actress playing Vivian Bearing did a superb job, and the audience gets the full impact when in a small, intimate theater, seating only 150 or so people. There's a visceral connection as you watch Professor Bearing metamorphose before your eyes from a confident woman, certain of herself and her place in the world, needing no one, through the terrible effects of chemotherapy and its humbling of your soul, to a place of final acceptance and transcendence.
And some of that doesn't make it into this film adaption, perhaps because it's harder for the actress to connect with the audience in the film medium than it is in person. At the end of the play, on stage the actress slowly moves away from the Code Blue team, in effect watching her body die, but moving toward an ever-brightening light as she moves from this existence. That's a powerful image.  It's also not in the film.
The performances on this DVD were excellent, though, as are the quality of the picture and sound on DVD. One disappointment, though - Emma Thompson did such a superb job in her commentary on the DVD for "Sense and Sensibility" that I wish they had added a commentary track with her and Mike Nichols as a special feature for this DVD. While this was a very good movie, the DVD falls a little short of the kind of special features that we have come to expect now of high quality DVDs, and this, plus my view that it's not as good as the stage play version, caused me to rate it as 4 stars.