Cinderella was originally released in 1950 by Disney. There have been at least 40 alternative versions of Cinderella released both before and since then, both animated and with live actors.

What sets Disney's version of 1950 apart?  It is the central role of the animated mice and birds, Lucifer the ever-scheming troublemaker of a cat, and Bruno, the loveable old hound who dreams of catching Lucifer. The mice and birds are constantly helping Cinderella compensate for the oppressive work overload assigned by her stepmother and two stepsisters. The mice have to overcome Lucifer's constant efforts to catch and eat them and to get Cinderella into horrendous trouble with her stepmother.

The basic Cinderella plot line serves merely as a frame holding a canvas on which these animal characters play out the main parts of the story line through their cat and mouse games.  It is these antics, communicated through short pidgin English phrases from the mice and deliciously evil facial expressions and body language of the cat, that endear the film so much to children and to the child in us all.

The setup menu offers 4 audio options:

-  English 5.1 Dolby Digital sound track

-  French 5.1 Dolby Digital sound track

-  Spanish 5.1 Dolby Digital sound track

-  Restored original monophonic sound track, which is Dolby Digital and includes both a center channel track and a sub-woofer track

To my ears, the new 5.1 channel English sound mix makes the mice's pidgin English conversations much shriller and much more muddied, so I found it harder to understand what the mice were saying than the restored original sound track, which is much clearer.

It's interesting that when the mice break out in song together, they sound much like the munchkins singing together in The Wizard of Oz, released 11 years earlier by MGM in 1939.

Cinderella was nominated for 3 Oscars in 1950, but lost to other films:

  Best Sound, Recording: lost to "All About Eve", 20th Century Fox Sound Dept.

  Best Music, Original Song; lost to "Captain Carey, U.S.A." song "Mona Lisa", Paramount

  (Cinderella was nominated for the song "Bibbidy-Bobbidi-Boo")

Best Music, Scoring of a Musical Picture: lost to "Annie Get Your Gun", MGM (starring Betty Hutton as Annie Oakley)

The only prize Cinderella won in 1950 was a special award at the Venice Film Festival in Italy. However, in the years since then Cinderella has won the hearts of children around the world for the special characters it brought to life, especially the mice Gus and Jacques and the cat Lucifer.

The mice Gus and Jacques as well as the dog Bruno were all voiced by James MacDonald, a Scot who was also the "second voice" of Mickey Mouse from 1946 to 1976 (Disney had several voice-over artists in its stable of Mickey Mouse voices).

Amazon.com's Editorial Review above of Disney's Cinderella mentions several other versions of this movie, such as the Rodgers & Hammerstein productions of 1957, 1965 and 1997, The Slipper and the Rose in 1976 starring Richard Chamberlain, Gemma Craven and Margaret Lockwood; Shelly Duvall's Faerie Tale Theatre version in 1982 starring Jennifer Beals, Matthew Broderick, Jean Stapleton and Eve Arden; and Ever After in 1998 starring Drew Barrymore, Anjelica Huston, and Dougray Scott.

Additional Cinderella films that one could mention include the 48-minute "lite" version from Goodtimes DVD (ASIN: B000069HPF), and the hilarious "Cinderfella" of 1960 (ASIN: B0002NY8SA) starring Jerry Lewis, in which he plays a persecuted stepbrother with an evil stepmother, and gets some help from his "fairy godfather" to meet a "princess charming" looking for a husband at a ball. The "princess charming" is played by the beautiful Anna Marie Alberghetti.

Among this funny film's special treats are a live jazz performance by Count Basie and his world renowned band, Jerry's inimitable jazz dancing, and a tremendous amount of physical comedy that is Jerry Lewis' trademark.

All these films serve to compliment, highlight and confirm the classic status of the one and only Disney Cinderella.