This film can be seen many times and each time, you see something you missed the time before. Both of the commentaries are fascinating. The screenwriter has experienced knowing people who really lived like this, so he is very interesting to listen to. The cast is filled with excellent actors, who, I think, took smaller parts because they wanted to work in a Robert Altman film and they are sublime. No one ever puts a foot wrong. Watch facial expressions and "thrown away" remarks, that are really vital to the story. I would suggest putting on the "caption" feature so you can follow the story while listening to the commentaries, or even to be sure you know what the Scottish Mary Maceachran (Maggie Smith's lady's maid) is saying or any other British speech pattern that may be unfamiliar to your ear. Watch for Meg Wynn Owen, who plays Lady Sylvia's lady's maid- she played Hazel Bellamy in the "Upstairs, Downstairs" series back in the 1970's (a matchless series, in my opinion- don't miss it). Sophie Thompson (Emma's sister) is quietly perfect as Dorothy, the still room maid, who worships Jennings, the butler. She played a perfectly silly woman in "Four Weddings and a Funeral"- she was the second bride, but she really shows her acting chops in this film. Watch for the "strawberry jam" scene with Tom Hollander and her speech about the meaning of love, even though your love isn't returned. I couldn't recommend it more. Jeremy Northam plays Ivor Novello (look him up on Google- Jeremy even looks a little like him) in a small part but played beautifully. Altman said he threw in the "F" word enough times so it would keep 14 year old boys out of the film when it showed in theaters; I don't think it would have been a problem. 14 year old boys wouldn't have been tempted and they wouldn't have understood it- in fact, I doubt if most men would get the point. They would have been looking at their watches hoping it would end soon. People who like the era and all the layers of detail will love it, I am sure. 5 stars from me, though I am a complete and utter Anglophile. You can't go wrong with an Altman film, in any case. It's also a good "escape" movie- takes you away from one's daily problems for a couple of hours- make some microwave popcorn and some iced tea (or a pot of hot tea!) and kick back. Exquisite!