Heidi Bub, a 29yr old wife and mother living in Tennessee, launches on an overseas journey to find her roots in Vietnam.

At age 6, young Hiep is surrendered by her mother to Americans, who, through Operation Babylift, take the Vietnamese children of American military men back to the U.S. to be adopted by American families.

Hiep's mother made a noble and heartbreaking sacrifice, surrendering her child because of rumors that all Amerasian children remaining in Vietnam would be burned alive after the war.

Hiep was flown to the U.S., adopted by a single woman who moved them to Tennessee, and - at age six - transformed from Hiep into Heidi.

At age six, she remembered her previous home, her biological mother and siblings, the trauma of the war. She carried with her no understanding of the sacrifice made by her family -- only the sense of loss and abandonment, and the childlike belief that she must be a bad person to have been left by her mother.

When she ultimately split from her adoptive mother, Heidi began to long for her first home, to finally find "a mother's love" -- someone who would love and accept her "just as I am."

When she found her biological mother, she discovered the pretty dreams of reunion and unconditional love could not match reality. Her family was grindingly poor -- something she was clearly not prepared for. They lived with the hopes that she -- an American and someone better off than they -- would rise to her familial obligations and care for the family by providing for them. Cherished Asian values of community and filial duty clash with American values of individualism and privacy. Heidi is insulted by all the talk of money. Conversations center around the family's wish for her monetary help. She cannot meet their expectations, she tells them. She guards her money and her heart and her privacy, wiping off her cheek where her doting mother plants frequent kisses. Resenting the "touchy-touchy" of her family, who don't value the distance and aloofness she does as an American. The cultural gap between Heidi and the family that once was hers is wide and unbridgeable.

The cultural misunderstandings between them lead to an irreparable split. Heidi's mother loses Hiep again, and her suffering and grief is unbearable to witness.

In their desperation to please Heidi, to explain themselves and their cultural norms, they attempt to communicate through a translator. Despite their poverty, they give Heidi gifts for her family. But Heidi can't see past her sense of insult, her regret at having made the trip to Vietnam, only to ruin her previously golden memories and dreams "with all this bad stuff."

She is a difficult person to sympathize with. It would have taken so little for her to make a difference in their lives. A monthly stipend of a few dollars would have made the difference of where that family lived, whether her nieces and nephews could go to school. However, she clings to her dreams of the perfect adoption reunion which results in a happily-ever-after family, a "sweet, gentle, soft-spoken Asian mom" who loves her without asking anything in return. She can't wait to leave Vietnam -- the culture-shock overwhelms her. She arrives back in Tennessee, tells her adoptive grandmother "you're who I know." Her grandmother tells her "I'm glad you went. I'm glad you got good pictures." Meanwhile, we see Heidi's mother in Vietnam weeping, suffering because she's lost Hiep all over again.

For me, it doesn't challenge the notion of adoption -- no, rather it challenges this American preoccupation with the dream of adoption reunions. When American adoptees seek to reunite with biological families overseas, this film is a stark reminder that those families will have cultural norms that oftentimes clash strongly with Americans' values. This film reminds us that biological families will have needs and expectations. When adoptees travel, not knowing, not understanding those needs, this film reminds us that the cultural gaps can lead to devastating results -- especially for the biological families. It left me wishing that Heidi had thought this through first. A little empathy and generosity would have gone a long, long way.