only because the director, Roman Polanski, is an old-fashioned craftsman who knows how to properly build a narrative, create atmosphere, shock you  with an unexpected visual, all the while studiously avoiding cliches . . .  and all without some big stupid explosion billowing in slo-mo while some  jerk runs toward the camera manfully  (again in slo-mo).  Withholding  information from the audience, then revealing it at the unexpected moments,  layering the characters -- in short, professional storytelling in the old  murder-mystery vein -- are lost arts which one typically has to go back to  the early 1980's to find, an era before computer technology and overbearing  camerawork made such painstaking craft no longer necessary to the  attention-span-deprived American audience.  *The Ninth Gate*  is all in the  details, baby.  If such nuances don't impress you, or seem boring to you,  better look elsewhere.  *End of Days*  would be a fine start.  No nuances  there to  "bog"  you down.
Having said all that, I must say  that this movie lacked a couple of key ingredients that would have made it  an emotionally satisfying picture.  Number one, having the Depp character  be SUCH a moral blank, especially as the film progresses, only serves to  deflate the tension -- in other words, nothing seems to be at stake.  Depp's soul is already lost; so is going to Hell any sort of change?  Also,  Polanski played his hand a bit early with the Mystery Blonde Girl.  Once  she starts floating in the air and kicking people around a la The  Incredible Hulk, it's no secret that she's a minion of Satan  (or even  Satan Himself -- it scarcely matters).  MORE mystery, not LESS, was needed  where she's concerned.  And the movie is really too long -- especially when  you consider the puzzling finish, which is really a confusing muddle . . .  unnecessarily confusing, I may add.
All in all, though, one of the more  satisfying movies of last year, especially for those who enjoy the craft of  filmmaking itself.  Those who require kickboxing matches once per half-hour  and actors floating through the soupy-looking air of CGI  "magic", need not apply. . . .