One of the greatest TV shows of all time ends with a sad whimper. Most of us Rockfordians are well aware of the problems between the wonderful James Garner and the corporate cavemen over at Universal, and right was certainly on Mr. Garner's side. However, this terrible tension and the exhaustion it caused -- beyond Garner already becoming tired of the role -- leads us to this final and cruddy 10-episode season. (Yes, you read that right: TEN EPISODES. For which, in classic Universal/MCA style, we are being charged a higher price than we were for the earlier full seasons!)

Anyway, Jimbo huffs and puffs and whines and peeves and looks like he'd rather be doing anything other than reciting these tired old lines. How could he feel otherwise with this lineup?:

"Lions, Tigers, Monkeys and Dogs" -- Holy moly, and absolutely the bottom of the Rockford barrel. A wax museum in the form of a TV episode, this one "stars" everybody they could find from the Studio City Rest Home, including the great Lauren Bacall who in this two-part disaster can only be described as "beige"(from head to toe). And the "plot" is worthy of the rest home: Bacall is a target for murder because she reminds her old high-school friend(now a princess) of their high school days. Really, I'm not kidding.

"Love is the Word" -- poor Jimmy, his old flame is getting married to someone else. Boo hoo. Steven Cannell would have thrown-up at this idea during the early seasons.

"The Hawaiian Headache" -- Rockford's old Korean commander, fresh from overthrowing Allende and assassinating Allard Lowenstein, shows up wanting Rockford's help in organizing Angolan death squads. Jim never liked the guy, so he says "no". Garner must have seen Reagan coming, I guess. Worthy of the bowels of "24".

"No Fault Affair" -- the great Rita Moreno appears for the last time as Rita Capkovic, asking the question that's stumped philosophers for thousands of years: is a 4th-rate hairdresser better than a 1st-rate hooker? (Of course not. Ask Charmane Star.) After watching this episode, you'll still be stumped.

"The Big Cheese" -- confused, anti-union propaganda, reportedly to have actually been written by Ed Meese. Throughout, Garner keeps checking his watch and his wallet.

"Just a Coupla Guys" -- Conigliaro & Long! Wasn't "Jersey Bounce" enough?? And are we supposed to forget that Eugene and Mickey were previously arrested for murder back in L.A.??? (Mickey is still picking sand from his teeth.)

"Dreadlocks in Parma" -- the Firebird breaks down and Jim finds himself stuck in a small town having a 3-day Bob Marley festival. Jim smokes a lot of weed, gets down with a serious fox by the name of Carrie Osgood, then leaves town. Okay, that's not the real plot but it's a lot sexier than Proposition 46D.

This is Rockford so of course there are compensations. "Nice Guys Finish Last"(already included in the Season Five set) is maybe the funniest episode of the entire series and one in which Garner is obviously having a hell of a time. "Paradise Cove" is also classic Rockford, beautifully written and acted. And parts of "Only Rock and Roll Will Never Die" is as good as anything from 1970s TV, particularly the great George Loros as Eddie and that moment between Garner and super-rocker Tim Ritchie. They're talking of high-school reunions and how wonderful Ritchie's must have been. "A thousand-to-one shot," says Jim. "Most guys show up overweight and feeling like failures." "Is that how you felt?," insensitive Tim asks Rockford. "No. I like to keep myself in pretty good shape. And I've got my house on the beach. Big house on big wheels. Besides, I was in prison at the time. . ."

A beautiful moment from a classic work of popular art going down for the count.