When Anchor Bay announced they were comming out with a Dawn of the Dead "ultimate Edition" they really meant it. You can see really see the blood sweat and tears that went through this dvd by looking at the cover. This review will mostly refer to the dvd, i don't have to explain what a cult classic this horror movie is. This is deff. the landmark of all zombie flicks. you zombie fans know that!! Enough said, the moment I popped in the first disc i was blown away by the transfer. The Dts. 5.1 surround sound really gives the movie a great boost. From every zombie moan to every bullet being fired, my speakers turn my room into a mall! (Slight exaggeration) There is very little grain even the night shots are pretty decent. As for the second disc (directors cut), which iv been waiting for years to see is simply amazing. Although the director's cut is only a 2.0 surround sound it still is stunning to see the 139 minute master piece. The special features on the first and second disc are weak but hey thats what the BONUS DISC is for right? On the director's cut there are some actual commericials from the Monroeville mall in the late 70's in case your interested. The commentary is pretty solid too, with DVD producers Richard P. Rubinstein and Perry Martin. I personlly like the commentary on the first disc with Make up master Tom Savini and the King of horror himself George A. Romero. You also get a comic book preview. Now for disc three, (European version) You get the cast commentary with Ken Foree, Scott H. Reiniger, and Gaylen Ross. The sound presented in this European version has good quality, 5.1 surround sound, 2.0 dolby surround, or the simple original mono. Picture wise, the transfer is decent. The special features are good too, you get all the international tv. spots, trailers, artwork, ect. You get the idea... Now for disc four, The Dead will walk Documentary is quite stunning, you get amazing interviews with just about everyone involved on the set of Dawn of the dead, on top of that you get the original documentary, you also get to look at home movies from zombie extra Robert Langer, the best part on the 4th disc is deff. the Monroeville Mall tour by the big man himself Ken Foree, Ken Foree makes the tour entertaining and keeps it brief. The packaging is amazing as well, you get an actual Dawn of the dead Comic book along with a good solid insert on all 4 discs. Overall one of the best movies and dvd packages of all time from Anchor Bay. A must buy!