We all know that retarded question:  what movie/book/poem/appliance would you take with you if confined to a solitary exile for life?... Well, if I ever have to answer that question, this as true as it gets...  This movie comes with me - hands down and no competition (well, provided that the deserted island is equipped with DVD/VCR player and enough reliable electricity to run it - oh, hell - forget that: I would pedal a stationary bike to generate electricity...).
This movie is as perfect as perfect gets.  The script, the actors, the breathtaking scenery and the music that brings it all together.  Yes, I read the book.  It probably sucked, but I could not care less - I was 12 and forever infected with the romanticism of the last frontier (that was before "Star Trek", mind you...).  When the movie came out, I was much older, somewhat wiser and more discriminating, and no less a romantic fool.  I fell head first, and it was not till I watched it for the tenth time or so, before I started to get pass the overwhelming gut feeling and into the details that make this movie a masterpiece.  OK, there is Daniel Day - Lewis as Hawkeye (very different from Cooper's asexual scout hero...) - visually enticing, to be sure and a competent actor - no more, no less.  Than, there are others: Wes Studi as savage and cruel, yet compelling Maqua.  Eric Schweig as Uncas - casted as stereotype, managed to overcome it and more: packed an entire romantic story of love and ultimate sacrifice into few stolen glances... Opposite him, Johdi May  as Alice - timid British girl overwhelmed and bewildered by the carnal reality of the Frontier - facing the cruel odds, she grows up in matter of days if not hours.  The final scene over the cliffs is a masterpiece:  Alice moves away from her captor, horrified and shocked, she glances away into unimaginable abyss, and when she looks back, her face is transformed in a matter of seconds - from uncontrollable fear to serenity of understanding and acceptance... The final moment, when she looks away, almost like a girl shying away from lover's glance is so breathtaking when one realizes it's the world she shies away from, in such a soft and sweet, yet final gesture...
And of course - Madeleine Stowe as Cora.  One might not consider her role such an outstanding accomplishment (as it is, to be sure...) - if not for the remainder of her movie career so far.  Madeleine Stove managed to portray characters who border on timid and forgettable - characters who try to be pretty, seductive, memorable,  and who never quite manage it... She seems always that bland girl on the brink of attractiveness - by intention or accident, she never seems to find the groove that would make her shine.  Until she became Cora - and she shines indeed!  Fragile and demure, yet strong and irresistibly  beautiful she is positively radiant!
All of that - and then there is the music score by Trevo Jones and Randy Edelman - absolutely genius.
Yes, yes - if I have to pedal a stationary bike on that deserted island - please, let it power the DVD player that plays "The Last of the Mohicans"...