... generally, I very much-agree with the reviews already posted; I agree that this film springs-alive whenever Fanny Ardant is on-screen, and that Jeremy Irons' performance is disappointing... his storyline is actually fine, but the performance, by this very distinguished actor, whom I shall always remember as "Charles Ryder", does not do-credit to his body-of-work, over all.

I'd like to add one new thought, however...

Being of a certain age, and a lifelong opera-devotee, I remember, with great sadness, the passing of this great star and artiste. I was well-acquainted with the sadness of her personal life and the torture brought-on by the decline of her career. As her career began its decline, but while still concertizing, she is reported to have said of her dissatisfied (her belief)audience(s): " I can hear them out-there in the dark, writhing in their seats, hissing like serpents" ... "the voice will no longer obey" . If, in fact, she did say this, it is not difficult to understand her eventual shutting-away of herself, far from those who no longer believed in her talent (again, her belief).

I was always so sad to believe that her final days were lonely, unhappy and broken-hearted (Onassis), and believing herself to be bereft of her once-great voice and career. Without stating "like" or "dislike", I shall say that I am very "glad" for this film, as it allows me to see those final days in a very different way. This film affords us a vision of la- Callas as a woman who has reclaimed her grace and wisdom, allowing herself to accept who she is.. at that time... allowing the past to remain in the past... as a beautiful memory, and remaining faithful to the core of her great artistry: her honesty. I think the final scene "on the park bench" is very telling, as it discloses that sentiment we all must and should face... in the end: it's not about what our achievement has conferred upon us, what's really important is the acceptance of our being, simply, a man... a woman. As a parallel, it's easy to recall that wonderful monologue, in the stalled car, in AllAboutEve, when the great Bette Davis sums-it-up: "in the end, every woman must accept that, whatever else she may have done... or may have achieved in her professional life, she is, simply... and remains simply... when its all-over...a woman.

There is great beauty in the grace of acceptance, acceptance without remorse or rancor... and in the end, I hope as much for myself. This movie allows us to see the Callas I prefer to keep as my memory of her final days... AND shall be able to keep as memory: such is the power of the cinematic experience. For that, I say that I am "glad" for this film, and...

Brava Diva