WTF WTF WTF!  From the lines of "Tropic Thunder" - "You $#!T the money bag my friend!"  I direct that to UB.  STOP MAKING your favorite VIDEO GAMES into movies! Especially if you are doing the writing or are helping in anyway shape or form!  Ok! Got that out of my system.

Time for the actual review...C R A P! Double C R A P!! TRIPPPLE C R A P!!!  IT"S "TROPIC THUNDER" THE REAL MOVIE - the only thing missing is "BOOTY SWEAT"! THE DIRECTOR IS AN SOB and he should be put out of his misery and just "brained"  - I mean full on lobotomy!  Because in that state, he can use the excuse that that is why is movies are about as on par as wanting a third testicle in all of you children, including the girls.  This movie was bad in terms of the acting, the editing, and the "costumes???" Where did they get the crap that they were using to dress these guys?!?  The US grunts look like they stepped out of a "Dickies" store.  The VC looked like they robbed the set of "Taegukgi" (Which was a better made/directed/designed movie about the Korean War - and it was done by a non-western director!)

UB does another fantastically outlandish and over the top look at a very serious and dedicated group of men - who were considered to be very elite in what they did.  That being the pursuit of VC and North Vietnamese Soldiers that used tunnels to hide, travel, and transport goods.  Not to mention the fact that many of these tunnels were rigged in more intricate patterns to confuse and even kill the US soldiers pursuing the "Commis".  UB attempted to show this, but utterly failed.  It was laughable in that I have seen graduate film students that have made better movies using a camera picked up at Wal-mart and the wardrobe department from their sister's basements.  This was BAD! Not in a good way...not even in a "I'll sit through this to throw popcorn at the screen"-bad.  This was the TEN MEGATON nuclear bomb of movies.  Watch at your own discretion!  Lastly, to show how much care UB - "the TARD" cares about his movie (all things included)- the DVD cover and his movie poster that promo-ed his movie show UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters coming in above the guy getting shot (or "taking a dump in pain") - either way it looks like the cover of "Platoon" with "Blackhawk Down" pics photo-shopped into the header!

Whoever gave UB money for this should have taken out a mob-hit to get their money back!