I can't understand why people try to say that the film is terrible becasue there are 200+ f words, or that the rap battles are all about putting down people, or anything that is a little to harsh for their eyes and ears. This movie is an ACCURATE portrayal of what it was like to be a white male growing up on the wrong side of "8 Mile". The reason that there are 200+ f words is because that it was like in Detroit, 1995. Would you prefer to see a movie that tip-toed around all the bad things about its subject?, or would you rather have a movie that presents an accurate portrayal of, frankly, a terrible place to grow up?
I can respect the fact that people don't like swear words and all that, and thats fine-there are plenty of movies that don't have a single offensive line. However, if you see 8 Mile, know that it is going to be an intense, comical, sad, and disturbing look at what it would be like to grow up in Eminem's home town.
Eminem does a phenominal job acting in this movie, and there is nothing bad that you can say against him. Sure, people will try to say that it's so easy to just "play yourself", as Eminem supposidly does. However, do those people think that they could present such an emotional, funny, and heart-wrenching character as Eminem does for Jimmy Smith JR., even if they were only "playing themselves"?
Mekhi Phifer is magnificant in playing "Future", one of (Eminem is referred to as Rabbit in the film) Rabbit's best friends, who constantly tries to push him to use his talents in the weekly rap battles. I was suprised by the relationship that Eminem had with his mother-I thought it would be much worse- but it was some of the scenes where Rabbit lectured his mom were very powerful.
I think one part of this movie that stood out to me was the fact that I can relate many of my friends to Eminem's friends in the movie. Everyone has the bossy friend, who constantly pushes you to do more, either because that's their nature, or, like Future and Rabbit, they see something in you that they think you could use to your advantage. Everybody has a friend like the charater Sol Georger, played by Omar Benson Miller, who is a huge, smart, goofy, I'd like to say kid, but adult. Then there's the hilarious Chedder Bob, who looks up to Rabbit in almost everyway, and one of the most touching scenes in the movie is when Cheddar Bob had recently asked Rabbit what a good emcee name for him would be, and when Rabbit came to visit him after he shot himself, he called out "Emcee Bob", over his shoulder as he was leaving. The way his face lit up sense chills down my spine.
I agree that this is not a movie for most kids to see, but that completly depends on maturaty level, so it is an individual choice. Parents, I would want to take a look in to your local theater to seen how strict they are about minors getting in to R movies because I (... was able to get into 8 Mile very easily without having an adult buy tickets.
In the end, 8 Mile is a fantastic movie that sheds light on to a world that should NOT be sugar coated with love and happiness that is not there. I strongly recomend this film to anyone mature enough to view it.