Let&iacute;s see, if I could sum up this entire review into one catchy phrase to quote on the back of the DVD case, "Wow!" would have to be it. When I first found out about this film and watched the trailer some seven or eight months ago, I was instantly excited and thrilled by the prospect. Normally I find myself skeptical and playing the role of the cynic when it comes to movies, but not this time. Not only does it do great justice to the Lovecraft classic, but it&iacute;s an extremely pleasing film regardless.

The directing is perhaps the most obvious part of this film&iacute;s genius, as it is presented as it would have been in the 1920s. The use of shadows is especially nice, oftentimes creating quite a bit of ambience through backlighting and solid silhouettes in the foreground. There are even added imperfections to the film, such as dust specks and the occasional hair. Following in suite right after these facts is the music and acting, obviously both are quite important in a silent film. Music is half the battle in creating atmosphere and, as an understatement, it succeeds. Depending on how well you favor orchestrated scores, it might even be worth purchasing the accompanying soundtrack. The acting on the other hand might not come off as something that would make or break the film, but that ideology would be wrong. In a silent medium where phonic acting is an impossibility, the overdramatic hand gestures and facial expressions are crucial. Thankfully, the H.P. Lovecraft Historical Society has found a slew of talented individuals to fill the huge amount of roles that the film supports.

Before watching the Call of Cthulhu, I was worried that it would be far too short of a film. At just under an hour (forty-seven minutes), the film does manage to build the story up and resolve what conflict was introduced. I don&iacute;t believe any of this would have been possible had the film been a talkie, but seeing as it&iacute;s silent, the style gives it the illusion of being longer. This is in no way a problem, but interesting to note nonetheless. Not only is this sense of 1920s style present in the film but in pretty much everything concerning the package. The printed address label on the package was mimicking something thrown together in a typewriter, the pleasing invoice found alongside the movie was printed out as a telegram and even the cover art captures the period feeling perfectly.

Overall, as much praise as I have given the film, I must also point out the few flaws that I had perceived. The music during the meeting between the police officer and the professors received a rather odd transition from the music of the prior scene. It seemed fitting enough for a party, but the shift was odd. Aside from that, some of the swamp scenes looked odd, but this was assumingly places where a green screen technique was used. In all fairness, it did look appropriate for the period, so maybe that&iacute;s what was intended anyway. Similarly, the stop animation Cthulhu was well done and yet sadly not shown much. It&iacute;s understandable in order to maintain the desired sense of fear, but disappointing when one considers just how much work must have went into the creation of that creature. What shots are shown tend to be extremely brief and would probably only confuse viewers who are not in the know, as it were. Lovecraft fans should have no problem, but the ending may be a little perplexing for the uninitiated.

The entire cast and crew deserve far more admiration than they will probably receive. As a relatively no-name film with an almost nonexistent budget it&iacute;s hard to standout amongst all of the CGI centered blockbusters that Hollywood throws out each year. If you&iacute;re the kind of person who is willing to break away from the norm of popcorn thrillers, then the Call of Cthulhu will not disappoint. If you are, however, illiterate or dependent on Hollywood&iacute;s overuse of sex and violence, then you may not be as pleased. In any case, I just hope that the H.P. Lovecraft Historical Society receives enough exposure from this release to warrant a second film... perhaps the Shadow Over Innsmouth?