There's a scene early in Traffic in which a group of preppy teenagers basically ramble on about nothing and snort cocaine. It's a fascinating, disturbingly gritty, and brutally realistic scene, but it also makes you think about why kids take drugs to  begin with. Kids don't shove sticks of marijuana into other kids' mouths and make them take it at gunpoint, like many people think. No, this scene suggests that it's much more casual than that. All these kids, in their isolation and boredom, are connected, and drugs seem to further that connection. These are the kinds of things you think about throughout, and long after, Traffic, Steven Soderburgh's brilliant, gripping, thought-provoking new film that grapples with the drug war. It tells three separate stories (which, since I have limited space, I'm not going to go into; they're posted on the offcial review), and Soderburgh's, working from Stephen Gaughen's taut, brainy, wonderful adaptation of the Brtish miniseries Trffik (which was over six hours long), directs brilliantly. He uses different hues and colors for his different stories (ice blue for Ohio and D.C., sandy yellow for Mexico, etc.), and while it takes a few minutes to adjust to his style (colors, jump cuts, etc.), it ultimately proves to set a magnificent mood and tone for the film. He keeps the two and a half hour film fascinating (compared to the hour and a half Head Over Heels, the time flies), and he juggles his three stories superbly, each of them fascinating as they slowly intertwine. And Soderburgh lets a outstanding cast shine. Douglas, in his second great performance of the year, shines as Robert Wakefield, Erica Krisstensian (sp?), in a brave perforamnce, pulls no punches as Douglas's druggie daughter. Catherine Zeta Jones is a revelation. She is at first tender and vulnerable, slowly becoming a shrewd, ruthless businessman, in a wonderful transformation. Don Cheadle, Luz Guzman, etc.; all outstanding. And Benicio Del Toro, wearing sags under his tired eyes like badges of survival, gives a quietly powerful, deeply haunting performance. But ultimately, this is Soderburgh's film, and he asks many tough questions and tells us a bleak truth: that as long as drugs are woven into the fabric of Americana, as long as there's corruption and greed, as long as there's supply and demand, the drug war can't be won. Yet Soderburgh also implies that the only way to beat drugs is personally, one addict at a time. It's this little ray of sunlight amidst the storm that gives Traffic heart as well as brains, and makes it one of the best pictures of the year.  A