This movie deserves all of the accolades it has received both from the film industry and the reviewers who have written about it here. It's interesting, however, that people are so shocked at how Hitler and his henchmen managed to take over Germany and lead the world into a war that included the ultimate atrocity of the Holocaust. While anyone who is familiar with German history knows that the country was especially vulnerable to a charismatic, if obviously megalomaniacal, leader like Hitler, there were many other countries who followed such leaders in the twentieth century; Hitler simply managed to take his schemes to theretofore unreached heights before his (and Germany's) inevitable "Downfall."

As has been mentioned by other reviewers, Hitler is accurately portrayed as a human being in this film rather than as a stereotyped demonic figure. Hitler, Himmler, Goebbels, Goering, and their ilk were indeed human, and they were also products of a society that had come to embrace social Darwinism and Nietzschean nihilism. Only the strong should survive and those strong survivors would then become gods. When one follows such a line of thinking and believes that, as Nietzsche wrote, "God is dead," then no evil is out of the realm of possibility.

Once the influence of such schools of thought resulted in God's 'death' to most of the European (not only German) population, a man like Hitler had an easy task of promoting his agenda of a race of supermen. The German masses went along with him as he restored both their national pride and economy (even if it was accomplished primarily through military build-up). Once he appeared as though he was the people's savior, he had them swear their allegiance to him (as though he were indeed their Lord and savior). Of course, by this time Hitler's power was established and anyone who didn't pledge their allegiance to him was eliminated or, at best, imprisoned. All of the suicides that viewers witness in this film were committed by fanatical followers who obviously thought of Hitler as their Messiah and didn't know what to do now that he had been revealed as being false. Other blind followers, like Traudl Junge, didn't have any ideas with which to arm themselves other than those implanted in them by Nazi brainwashers such as Goebbels.

Most of the German church stood idly by, although there were a very few noted figures - such as Dietrich Bonhoeffer - who did resist Hitler, because most of the German people had long ago lost interest in God. Even most of those who attended church did so out of custom rather than faith; they were firm nationalists and nominal Christians only.

I'm sure that a review such as this one, which approaches the situation from a Christian perspective, will be lambasted by many as being simplistic. I am also aware of the atrocities that have been, and continue to be, perpetrated in the name of both Christianity and other religions. I can't vouch for the other religions, but the atrocities committed in the name of Christianity have not come at the hands of true followers of the Christian faith.

For anyone who is interested in exploring these issues further, I recommend the following works as a starting point: 1) for a look at how Hitler actually exploited, and later subdued, the German church, read Erwin W. Lutzer's book titled "Hitler's Cross"; 2) for a look at the foremost Church resistance leader, Dietrich Bonhoeffer, and the dilemmas of faith and ethics which he had to confront under Hitler's regime, watch the DVD titled "Bonhoeffer: Agent of Grace"; 3) for a good sampler of Nietzschean nihilism, try "Thus Spake Zarathustra," "The Anti-Christ," or "Beyond Good and Evil" (Hitler did twist some of Nietzsche's ideas a bit, but he didn't have to overexert himself in this process); and 4) for the answer to how a Hitler could have arisen in the first place (and why so many other brutal dictators ruled during the twentieth century and continue to arise in the twenty-first century), read Ravi Zacharias's excellent book titled "Can Man Live Without God?" (all are available on Amazon).