This is my first review for Amazon.com so please bear with me and enjoy!

I  watched this show as a kid over at a friend's house that had cable.  I was instantly sucked into this show.  It was full of action and adventure and even thought I was older and maybe "too old" for cartoons it was AMAZING!!!  By the time we watched the episode my younger friend and I were saying "Biiiiiiirdman!' and "Biiiiiiiiiirdboy!"  all day.

I came across  the DVD when I was randomly searching for items to buy on Amazon and  knew then and there I had to buy it.  I was a little iffy about it after buying some old cartoons that were not as good watching the second time around once the wonder of childhood is gone.  Boy was I wrong!  I was saying "Biiiiiiirdman!" every day until it got here and I watched it disc at a time until I finished it.  Amazing stuff here.  BUY IT!!!!

Episodes:
There are 10 per disc, five per side.

Grades:

Presentation- 2/5
This is a cheap cardboard box.  The folder case box that holds the discs in it is a little tight and is doesn't slide out real easily and you have to pull it out sometimes by force.  It also had some bad animation of the Galaxy Trio and Birdman on it.  Another complaint is that it is called a 2 disc set  but it is 2 flip disc.  I wonder why they did not put it on full discs?  Other shows are done with more minutes on a disc.  On top of that the disc are stacked one over another so you must remove one to get the other one out.

Appearance-3/5
Although you can see the "dirt" on the screen it is not very bad.  I would have preferred a restored version but what do you expect out of a DVD for about $15-20 for the whole series?

The show-4/5
The show itself is great and it aged very well.  Even though characters will announce everything they do when they do it  this is expected for the time period this show was made in.  The odd thing is how some characters change in appearance between episodes, such as Dr. Millennium changing hair and skin color.  The oddest thing is how almost every bad guy was green skinned!  Even if they were human!  There are some off moments when Birdman is shown without wings or his symbol on his head. Or color changes in his costume.  Vaporman is shown without sleeves a few times in the episodes.  A little more continuity would be nice.  Maybe tie in some characters and a background would have been nice.

Special Features-0/5
There are some trailers of other cartoons and one documentary about the show  but nothing special.  It would have been nice to have some character profiles and an episode of  Harvey Birdman, Attorney at Law plus the one episode of Space Ghost Coast to Coast where he has Birdman on the show.

Overall-4/5
All in all I would recommend this to kids and adults who like comic and cartoons.  It  has good hero moments and if sci-fi is your thing there is the Star Trek like Galaxy Trio part.  Buy it and enjoy!