I can see how some people would be disappointed that the superior original versions of the Star Wars Trilogy are relegated to "bonus discs" in these new 2-disc sets, that they are presented in simple 2.35:1 letterboxed widescreen rather than anamorphically enhanced for widescreen TVs, and that the prints have a certain amount of speckling and jitter. Nevertheless, the original theatrical versions, as presented, look quite respectable on normal, good-quality (if not HD) 4:3 TVs or monitors; they are basically crisp and correctly colored, better than any VHS, LD, or unauthorized, private DVD-R made from the LDs that I have seen. The 2.0 sound is accurately chosen; the original closing credits simply say "Dolby Noise Reduction": Dolby Digital 5.1, like any digital format, was certainly unknown in 1977. To those who have said that these are merely copies of the 1993 laser discs, I would point out that STAR WARS has the original title crawl, without the later-added "Episode IV: A New Hope": absolutely the first time we see it in any home video form, including the laser discs. On the other hand, some cleaning up of video speckling and anamorphic enhancement for 16x9 TVs would not have been difficult or costly these days; and the omission of special features present on the extra disc of the 2004 4-DVD set, like the "Empire of Dreams" documentary or any trailers, is disappointing. The original versions are packaged with Lucas' later revisions/remasterings ("Special Editions") which few people need (and many don't want) but the combination does provide an immediate way to compare and contrast. If the raw form in which the original films are offered was Lucas' way of trying to bias people toward the more opulent, restored 2004 revisions, he has erred again and accomplished exactly the opposite: the theatrical versions win, hands down, even in a less sophisticated presentation. If, as Lucas says, the original elements are in too poor condition to fully restore the old versions and these are the best he is willing or able to give us, I am not too disappointed: indeed, were he to find good elements and restore them, doubtless he would start tampering all over again. At least these imperfect prints show no marks of intrusion. Moreover, the color timing for the 2004 revisions was dramatically altered and, because film fades with age, any changes made to the content of the extant old prints or negatives would be guesswork. I suspect that the theatrical versions in these sets are as accurate as they can be. As I said, some print damage might have been corrected and anamorphic enhancement could have been added (even some private from-LD versions have it), but these are small matters in the overall scheme of things.