With out a doubt there was a lot of issues with this particular production. The story of how this film got made is probably,for most,far more interesting than the movie itself. This movie has be panned and slammed by most major movie critics and repelled by most horror fans as horrific as poodle gone rabid and even then the poodle rates as more scarey !!!

However, For those unawares of the troubled productions the studio wanted the film to kid friendly and be able to sell the movie to the teen market. This led to Wes Craven having to film a majority of new footage and re-edit for this market.

Furthermore, Mr Craven went all hissy over the CG footage - which when u see it is understandable.

With this in mind I tend to think that not all the blame can be throw like a giant furball in the directors direction. When one has a goal in life it is often altered and changed by outside
influences and the same can be seen with many movies.

Unfortunately for the werewolf fan this is not a film that is made with any love or style. Wes Craven's and Kevin Willamson's mark is felt all over this movie but gone is the overall success of mixing self referential humour and horror that is entertaining and fresh (think Scream).

Now don't get me wrong, im not defending Wes Craven as some loyal neurotic fan. I don't think the man is the MASTER OF HORROR nor do I look at every Wes Craven movie as a god sent to the horror world on celluloid. The man in my opinion is classified as the MASTER OF HORROR purely cause he has made or produced so MANY HORROR FILMS. In my books the man has made more duds than successes with both the first Nightmare on Elm Street and Scream being the successes.

I've seen his The Last House on the Left which I thought was extremely dated and actually more titillating than really setting new levels of dread and movies such as The Serpent and the Rainbow, Shocker and The People under the Stairs though good but are almostly b-grade in there deliveries. I don't mind b grade but it has to be edgy and fresh to be a true masterpiece.

So back to Cursed, the story is simple and I mean really simple. Sister and brother get marked by a werewolf and we spend the rest of the movie watching how their new werewolf genes mix with there teen lives. Thrown into the mix is that both are being stalked by the werewolf. The story line is simply go from point A to B to C to conclusion. All predictable, all wrapped in cheap transparent cellophane.

The problem with the film is that it holds no substance and can't decide which genre it wants to fit in, a dark werewolf film , a teen comedy, a teen drama or a post modern horror flicks.

It fails at all !!!

When comparing the film to other werewolf films it doesn't hold up. An American Werewolf in London has more to its humour and horror than this film ever had and Ginger Snaps is far more post modern werewolf than this scholck.

With all that said the film is watchable and will pass an hour a half but you certainly aren't going to remember this film as even remotely mind blowing.

Now to the one thing most wanna know: how does the werewolf look??? Well to be honest the CG is not too bad and not too good. It just unremarkable and you are going to have to suspend belief slightly not to be completely zoned out of the movie by some of the fakeness.

To but it simply the CG looks cartoony and too sharp to be real (not as bad as the wolf in An American Werewolf in Paris but very close).The costumed werewolf looks...well it looks like what it is...a person in a full puppet suit or a animatronic werewolf head. Overall it doesn't compliment the film.

Another aspect when thinking of this film is that there are two copies circulating, one is a pg type offering while the other has some gore.

Clearly the unrated copy is the one to get view !!!

Unfortunately for most Australians this isn't possible yet as the pg version is the only one available at present down under but hopefully this will be rectified with a Special Edition.

In conclusion this is a lite werewolf affair that has been produced and manufactured as a business venture not with true love for the genre or a respect for the horror fan. For me it almost verges on a Wes Craven version of Teen Wolf and even that was a better film for what is was and that saying something !!!!

This is one dog that you may stoke once, realise it's a bit mangy and then but down like the bad wolf that it is......