Well..I was first advised by my little sister,Rachael, to watch this amazing film. She's 16 and she saw the movie with her friends. Well, I found out that the movie was going to play one night on ABC Family and I planned to watch it then. I watched it and I must say I was shocked! The story was so heartfelt and Allie and Noah seemed to be meant for each other. You can see the chemistry and the oneness of their relationship! The Bible says that a man and woman were meant to be one and well Allie and Noah truly displayed that oneness!

The movie made me wonder if I'll have an everlasting love relationship like them. I'm dating someone now and our relationship has lasted for a year and two months so far. It's going on three!Anyway, my mother was with me and she said that Rachel Mcadams and Ryan Gosling were good actors and I agreed! This film is truly for any romantic, one that desires true,everlasting love or one that hopes that their own relationship progresses into that.I'm just now reading the book to this film because if the movie was that good and it was done in two hours then the book is wonderful as well. I know that the book and the movie is something I'll be reading and watching over and over again to remind myself of the pleasures of true love that I want so much for myself.

I watched this film again with my grandmother and she believed that the movie displayed what true love is and it means staying with someone for the rest of your life. That's what Noah showed in his relationship with Allie. She was the only girl he ever loved and that's basically what love supposed to be for men and women, not going from one lover to the next.Even when Noah was with another woman, Martha, in the film when he couldn't be with Allie, he didn't feel the same love for Martha as he did for Allie.For me, I hope I'll have someone that will stay forever with me. Now,I don't have a copy of this film yet but I plan on buying it soon and as for the the book, I'm going out to Barnes and Noble to buy it! Right now, I just borrowed it in the meantime from the library. So..buy this film! You won't regret it!