This dvd, part of Image's great (and occasionally revelatory) Mario Bava collection, represents the best (indeed, only) way of viewing this film as it was originally intended.  The film is a must for fans of gothic horror; the contemporary viewer will notice it's influence on both Italian cinema and american (particularly Tim Burton, who's recent Sleepy Hollow in particular contains a number of explicit 'homages'..).  The black and white photography is extravagent without becoming distracting, the casting is perfect (sadly Steele and Bava would not work together again).  Although dated, Mask of Satan (Black Sunday's original title) is considerably less so then the more childish Universal Horrors of the 30s, due to it's more graphic (for it's day) violence and disturbing sexual undertones.
The transfer for this dvd is superb, and the print in great condition.  Picture quality is in fact considerably better then the previous disc of 'Baron Blood' (which is very good).  Anamorphic enhancement helps a lot, although sadly it isn't 'windowboxed' (this isn't a big deal but would have been nice).  Lack of Italian soundtrack with english subtitles is disappointing - but the cast appear to be speaking english for the most part anyway, and the dubbing really isn't THAT bad for this kind of film (*ahem* - 'Female Vampire' anyone?)
Tim Lucas' commentary track is very good also.  Actually I wish he'd do this on all the Bava collection dvds (perhaps there isn't much to say about his lesser works?).  It's of the informative variety; he is clearly reading a prepared script despite the enthusiasm he shows for the film - but it's well worth a listen at least once as it really gives an insight into Bava's genius.  He also points out the differences between this and the previous US version (if you were unlucky enough to have seen that).
Despite being slightly long in the tooth, I would recommend this film to all open minded film fans, particularly those interested in horror or foreign film.