I looked forward to this movie and am glad that I purchased it.  There are elements of the plot that strike me as somewhat improbable, but what's a movie without improbable plots?  The filming is extremely good. Although it has a reputation as being anti-Japanese it could have been far more so.

I follow movies having to do with World War II in the Pacific.  My father fought there and was wounded on Luzon on 7 June 1945, shortly before the war ended.  He survived and lived to be 79.  What has fascinated me about the war was the behavior of the Japanese, who were extraordinarily brutal toward the residents of the areas they occupied.

The Nanking Massacre has taken on legendary proportions as an example of Japanese ruthlessness.  This film deals only with a very small part of that story.  Most movies having to do with Nanking dwell on the slaughter of the Chinese residents by invading Japanese soldiers.  This one touches on it and has some great scenes of a very creative and brave single Chinese soldier who perishes holding off the Japanese while the girls escape early in the plot.

A technical error in the film shows the Japanese concussion grenades being far more powerful than they actually were.  Four grenades were shown decimating the upper level of a stone building while, in reality, they would have killed nearby in it but would have left the building pretty much intact.  It made an entertaining scene, however.

Much of the story that evolves takes place among the Chinese girls hiding in a large Catholic church in Nanking, roughly half of whom are Catholic school girls and half are prostitutes, and their improbable champion.  There's not much intermingling between the groups and the prime link between the two is the male lead, an undertaker posing as the Catholic priest who had been killed by the Japanese.  He plays the role of a roguish drunk who grows into a noble hero.  He has more in common with the prostitutes but becomes more and more protective of the school girls he winds up rescuing.

The film is well-acted, has interesting and intricate sets and some good special effects.  The roguish drunk and the prostitutes were a bit overdone but it's still OK.  The "making of" featurette is fascinating.  I'm only giving it a four but would probably give a four-and-a-half if I could.