Adrian Lyne`s LOLITA will one day receive its due from film historians as the greatest cinematic work of the last two decades of the 20th century: a prize denied it at the moment as we war with one another over how we are to  face sexual and social reality. As Maurice Girodias wrote of the novel  "Lolita": "I sensed that LOLITA would become the one great  modern work of art to demonstrate once and for all the futility of moral  censorship and the indispensable role of passion in literature." So  does this speak also for Lyne`s film. Jeremy Irons, as Humbert, opens the  film with words from Nabokov`s novel. As he first catches sight of Lolita  (Dominique Swain), the camera focusses slowly and lovingly on her form as  she reclines on the lawn, surrounded by the wetness, lushness, humming  honey-dew freshness of the garden; reading a book, from which she looks up  at Humbert and smiles tenderly, tauntingly, knowingly - radiantly. She  returns to her book, but with a smile of realization; aware of him yet far  from troubled; silently already conspiring with him. Thus we meet Dominique  Swain, proving herself already in this opening scene one of the most  accomplished actresses of our time. The camera moves to dwell on her feet,  raised behind her as she lies reading, glistening against a backdrop of  floral beauty; nature wordless, far more eloquent than words. The camera  frequently focusses lovingly and interestingly on her feet. In a later  scene she sits beside him on the veranda of the Haze house, and Miss Swain  is so skilful an artiste that her movements and mannerisms are not at all  feigned, but are the natural movements, expressions and mannerisms of the  girl she plays, as though the camera were not there. The carefree jerking  of her bronzed legs and arms against his; the brush of her hair, carelessly  and as if unknowingly against his cheek. Her smile lights up the screen.  Her eyes mock society: its bigotry, its prejudice. ... "I should call  the police and tell them you raped me, you dirty old man," she tells  Humbert later, smiling tauntingly and affectionately, her retainer showing,  making him smile too. She asks "Want to see my chin wobble?", and  wobbles it, making us with Humbert want to press our face, laughing,  against hers. She takes her retainer from her mouth and drops it in his  drink while her mother has left to get some ice. Frantically, he has to  fish for it and get it back in her mouth before her mother sees. He also  has to quickly dispose of her bubble-gum and pop it into his own mouth  before her  mother espies it. As out and out bigots condemned this movie  for its frankly realistic portrayal of love, so many of its half-hearted  defenders displayed cowardice in their would-be sympathy, disowning and  neutralising it with: "...Of course, we know what Humbert is doing is  wrong," and "... Of course, we cannot sympathise with  him."!  And other such timid sell-outs and non-committal verbiage.  (Together with the academic so-called "psychopathological  analyses" etc., which are all so much garbage, and which Peter  Sellers` Quilty in the original Kubrick film version mocked so well!)
A  truly great film - one of the most moving and realistically performed of  all time - and a superb work of art for the more enlightened people of the  future to appreciate much better than we today are able to!
Anthony  Walker.