I looked forward to this; any Glyndebourne production on DVD gets me excited, and in this case I was keen to see von Otter (though I didn't know Haddock, who plays Don Jose) in the role of Carmen. The production values are excellent. This is nicely shot, clear and crisp. The occasionally minimalist set works fairly well. The fights are well choreographed.

But still I found this version disappointing for several reasons. At times the stage induced claustrophobia -- though that might be inevitable in stage versions, so let's put that criticism aside. On a more serious note, I simply couldn't accept von Otter as Carmen, that is, as a reasonable representational facsimile of the elemental and passionate 'force' that is Bizet's (and Meilhac and Halevy's) character Carmen.

This might sound awfully shallow -- though I still think I'm right -- but von Otter's characteristic facial expression in moments of tumult (fear, defiance, anger) is bared teeth. I couldn't help thinking that any dentists viewing this would be even more distracted than I was by her ever-present curled lip. Her movements were not fluid or graceful; it is as though she was directed to express her inner states through quasi-stylized, jerking motions. Overall, her attempts to display feistiness simply fizzled, and she merely seemed enraged. Sneering and showing one's teeth is might be necessary for acting out a role, but it is not sufficient. Truth be told, I find her irredeemably unsexy here, in this particular role, even though she tries hard and is of course a talented mezzo.

Marcus Haddock hasn't got a tenth of Domingo's acting ability -- and so the pathos that should accompany Don Jose's degeneration from dutiful son and soldier to a controlling, intemperate killer goes missing -- although his voice is acceptable, I suppose. The rest are pretty much forgettable. As I say, this was a disappointment. There are a number of other versions out there that I prize much more highly than this, starting with Rosi's incomparable film version (with Domingo and Migenes), right down to Maria Ewing's and Agnes Baltsa's versions.

I'm pretty sure that after an initial viewing this version will sit on many shelves, collecting dust. Perhaps dental colleges could buy up a number of them?