What interests me most about this film is the idea that, through death and rebirth, two souls may still be bound to each other. In each life, Hugh Jackman is trying to save his lover, Rachel Weisz. In the first life, Jackman discovers the tree of life and becomes a part of it. In the present life, he uses the tree's medicinal values to discover an anti-aging complex. And in the future, he is an ascetic, a man devoted to meditation, and his wife a tree. This evolution has both Biblical and Eastern religious themes, and all becomes one at the end. What is interesting to note is that the dying star they are moving toward has a nebulous wrapped around it... a shining metaphor for Jackman wrapped around his dying wife, doing all he can to save her.

The cinematography in this film is beautiful, the movie itself is a poem. Coupled with Clint Mansell's music, there are part of this film that move me to moments of pure inspiration, specifically as they move toward the star at the end and Jackman has a moment of enlightenment before the star explodes and new life forms. We witness the constant transference of energy from one form to the next, and Jackman in the end becomes acutely aware of it.

Maybe I am reading too much into the film, maybe not enough. In our current state of Hollywood franchises, where every movie is made with its sequel, and commercial products in mind, The Fountain is a rare work. One that is not meant to merely entertain, but to think about the larger scale of where we are, where we have been, and where we are ultimately going.

There are some obvious contradictions between the movie's quotations from the Bible and ultimately its Buddhist concept of death and rebirth. But it only references origins in the Bible, not destinations. Maybe at some point, in our human translations, our translators have taken different roads. But I like the idea of all things are one, beginning from and returning to the same place.

I give it 4 stars because there are a few lines from Jackman that seem both unconvincing and absurd. One is here he says something about finding life, when he is going toward the tree of life as a conquistador. Other times, when he talks about his need to save his wife, he just doesn't seem to believe it wholeheartedly.