"Fair is foul, and foul is fair," say the Three Witches in _Macbeth_, and the principle holds true for the film _Shampoo_.  Released in 1975, and one of the leading members of what are now being called "70s films," _Shampoo_ is the story of George Roundy, hairdresser in beautiful and sun-blessed City of Angels.  Perhaps no other film in Hollywood has been placed into more capable hands -- Hal Ashby, the remarkably disciplined but expressive director (as in Roundy's rides on his motorcycle through the Hollywood Hills); Robert Towne, veteran screenwriter who won an Oscar for _Chinatown_; and Warren Beatty, one of Hollywood's greats, and swordsman of renown.  The film follows Roundy as he enjoys what he seemingly enjoys most, the company of women, and as he seeks to start a business, his own hair salon.  But in the film, as the Three Witches say in _Macbeth_, fair is foul, and foul is fair -- which is to say that in _Shampoo_, roles reverse and appearances deceive.  Roles reverse in the central characteristic to Roundy -- his enjoying the company of women.  For in Roundy's world, the courter has changed to the courted, and the courted, the courter.  Why it is, or even whether it must be or ought to be is perhaps fit for another discussion -- but it seems hard to argue, to this reviewer, that the traditional role for a guy in courtship is to be the courter, and the traditional role for a woman, to be the courted.  In Roundy's world, however, things somehow have got reversed.  He does no courting -- he doesn't stop his movement seeing an angelic brunette walking down the sidewalk and chase her down, he doesn't time his exit from a bank to catch an arresting blonde on her way out.  He does no courting.  For it is women who court him.  He's walking into his shop and a woman slams on her brakes and bats her eyes for his attention, he's waiting for one of his "friends" (most likely how he'd introduce her to someone) at her house and, while he's killing time, her daughter comes on to him.  So in Roundy's world, things have got themselves reversed.  The cause of the reversal is significant and important to understanding Roundy.  Roundy's very existence is you might say "half free-will" -- half free-will because on nearly any matter, he is only forced to make half a decision.  For in constantly being courted, he is essentially being offered decisions for approval or rejection.  In being constantly sought-after, half of his decision-making process is completed for him.  His life is thus a whirlwind -- from an observer's point of view, he might be seen to do things in a roundabout fashion.  And so he ends up having sex with the young daughter, Lorna (played by Carrie Fisher), of one of his friends.  How does such a thing happen?  Because he's only ever forced to make half a decision.  And yet in Lorna's courting him, which she does with vigor, there is a lesson as well.  For she comes on to Roundy by saying, "Wanna f---?"  And to this Roundy agrees.  However, when one of his friends courts him by indirectly asking him to fix her hair, he turns her down.  And so a lesson to be seen here, as well, is that as Roundy has a thousand and one offers at any one time, he takes the most direct and most clearly communicated.  Thus roles reverse in _Shampoo_.  But appearances deceive as well.  Perhaps appearances deceive in no better way in the film than in the manner that Roundy is forced to act in order to start his business.  For Roundy secretly has his own master whose altar he must kneel before -- the bank.  In seeking to start his own hair salon, he must do the courting.  He must go to a bank and apply for a loan.  It is he who is doing the approaching, it is he who conforms to the standards his master will demand of him.  Indeed, no longer is it one of his friends who is putting on just the right top or just the right perfume for Roundy's approval, but it is Roundy who is putting on just the right jacket and putting his raffish hair in just the right place for the approval of his master -- a bank manager.  Tellingly, he invites none of his friends along with him to the bank -- he's aware of his reversed role, and he doesn't like it, but there is nothing he can do about it.  Denied his first attempt at a loan, he must later go see another banker, Lester (played by Jack Warden).  Lester is the husband of one of Roundy's friends.  And here too appearances deceive -- for Lester believes Roundy to be gay, and so Lester would be quite shocked to learn that Roundy is enjoying the company of his wife.  And indeed appearances may so deceive in this world that the end is a deception itself.  For the end of _Shampoo_ is often seen as bleak and despairing -- Roundy in shock as the only person he decides he can trust, leaves him, and breaks his heart.  But is Roundy's heartbreak forever?  It's hard not to look a few months into the future and see Roundy motoring along Mulholland Drive on his motorcycle, a friend of his speeding up beside him in her car, flagging him down, smiling devilishly out of her car, asking him if he wants to f---, Roundy suppressing a smile, glancing around.  Glancing at what?  At nothing.  Roundy shrugging, and then Roundy off on his motorcycle tailing behind the girl in her car, having already mended, or if not mended, at least forgotten -- maybe! with hope! -- his heartbreak.