It was with some trepidation that I viewed "Mission to Mars" on DVD. The reviews were not good. I was left with the impression this was another shlocky attempt at space opera.
Not at all: what we have here is a true SF fan's movie, albeit a flawed one.
Exquisitely crafted sets. Breathtaking scenes. But more importantly a story and characters I empathize with. 
Take two parts  "2001: A Space Odyssey"; one part "The Right Stuff", one part "Contact", one part "Close Encounters", ½ part "Aliens"; mix well. I could have done without the ½ part "Aliens".
Was this derivative? Yes: gloriously so. If you're looking for a "Star Wars", "Star Trek", "Independence Day" or even an "Aliens" derivative, don't look here. 
The first manned mission to Mars is almost wiped out in an encounter with an alien artifact, necessitating a 2nd mission to rescue the first. Earthbound controllers don't know what has happened; they conjecture an earthquake (mars quake?) has had devastating effects but there may be survivors.
I'm willing to forgive most of the contrived plot devices employed to increase suspense; some worked, some didn't. 
The Gary Sinise character leaving off his helmet during a literally breath taking rush to prevent total decompression of their ship was particularly goofy; this annoyed me. The Tim Robbins character's demise could have been better orchestrated. The situation ignored common sense and defied Newtonian physics. But, both these scenes were shot in such a breathtaking manner that that they worked for me in spite of these flaws.
However, the plot device of having the 1st encounter with an extraterrestrial intelligence end violently is unforgivable. This would be the ½ part of "Aliens" at work. Later, in a strange twist, this device turns xenophobic on the part of the aliens. A more appropriate turn of plot would have had some more mundane human problem necessitate the 2nd mission to rescue the first. Or perhaps a mars quake.
The music score felt anachronistic; however this imparted a sense of realism in a movie portraying events 20 years in the future. The somewhat mundane dialogue also served the same purpose and did not detract from the empathy I felt for the characters.
Not a chick-flick, probably not a wife-flick (I chose to view this when she was out shopping, however having seen it I might try it on her). Definitely an SF enthusiast's flick even with its flaws.