This review is intended solely for the Notting Hill DVD collector's edition, released 1999. If you are reading this review with a different version of Notting Hill, it will not be helpful.

I'm going to assume that if you're seriously reading this review as you decide whether or not you wish to buy this fun Julia Roberts / Hugh Grant fairytale romance, you're probably already familiar with the plot. So instead, I'm going to help you make your decision by telling you all about the bonus features you'll get.

Hugh Grant's movie tips: short but very funny. Well worth the 4 minutes it takes to watch. 5 stars.

Music features: Haven't ever seen this in another movie before. Basically, it's a number of scenes organized by musical score, so you can enjoy these great romantic or fun songs from the soundtrack while watching just the parts of the movie they play during. Not exactly a music video, but cute nonetheless. 3 1/2 rounded to 4 stars.

Deleted Scenes: Disappointing for the most part. You can't skip to an individual scene, and there was only one scene that I genuinely liked. So basically, if you're willing to sit through several boring or even annoying scenes that really contributed next to nothing to the understanding of the story, and had almost no entertainment value, you get to watch this one particular scene called "Anna practices all her lines and Spike tries catering," which was something of a gem among junk. Be aware though that this scene was cut because Julia Roberts uses the f-word twice. But all the same, I thought it was very funny. 2 stars.

Feature Commentary: I could not finish watching this - it was too dull. Worse, if you activate it from the special features, you might think that you could deactivate it from the same place. You'd be wrong. I was very confused by this. Turns out that if you want to turn off the feature commentary (and I can assure you that you will), you have to go into the Language Options menu. 1 star.

DVD-ROM behind the scenes: I haven't put the DVD into a computer yet, so don't know one way or the other about this feature. I'll edit this review after I've had a chance to check it out.