Boondocks is as relevant as South Park. I only say south Park because it tends to deal with issues of relevance through satire, extreme yes, but satire nonetheless. If one were to really examine it, a lot of African Americans are either a Riley, a Huey, a Grandad, an Uncle Ruckus, a Tom, etc. Each of the characters on THe Bonnodcks represents some level of the African American psyche. The genius of the show, is even it's criticism of certain stereotypes and complexes, at the end, it's still about unity, about loving each other despite our flaws. Each of these personalities co-exist amongst each other, despite their differences. Uncle Ruckus and Huey are on two compltetely different sides of the spectrum, yet they can sit and eat together, and disagree.

  Now yes, I would say that the show is hard on white people, but Ed Wuncler ("Mr. I Own Everything") does exist, and his heartlessness yet desire to identify with the Grandad is true, a lot of top white executives, politicians,  white men of powerful means, love the blues, the struggle of the black man, yet are directly responsible for many of the conditions that oppress African Americans. But at the end of the day, they feel their pain, they just don't care. The episode where Ed Wuncler teaches Jazmine the meaning of "hard work" by exploiting her lemonade stand and her dream of owning a pony is real. We're all chasing that pony, and some of us will never get it, and the person who sees that desire exploits us for it. And yes. Ed Wuncler III is what the children of rich white people have become/are now. They love "nigga" culture, as there fathers loved the blues, but the difference is that they may one move on to inherit their father's wealth, while the people they emulate may eventually float away in a natural disaster to be abandoned, or however that goes.

 So you should by this DVD collection and watch it, and laugh, and think, and realize that some of the best humor is derived from pain and anger. Lenny Bruce, Richard Pryor, Martin Lawrence in his heyday, George Carlin, the list goes on and on. But also note that if the show offends you, I mean outright offends you, one, its just a cartoon, and two, maybe it offends you because in some way it is true, maybe it insults you, maybe one of the characters hits too close to home, and in that case, maybe the problem is not the cartoon.