Not much can top the original Ghostbusters movie, at least for me.  That was the defining film of my childhood (I was 7 when it came out).  After I saw it, my list of career goals instantly took shape: (1) be a Ghostbuster.  I put in some serious practice time running around the house with a backpack and an umbrella or toy gun (makeshift proton pack) shooting at invisible ghosts.  I probably scared my parents quite a bit.  Although I failed to become a Ghostbuster, the film stays with me and is one of the most potent pick-me-ups in existence (just pop it in the player and under most normal circumstances, my mood gets better).

So when news of a second film came out a half-decade later, I was of course very excited.  By that time however I was also not 7 anymore, my career goals were somewhat more nuanced, and what I expected from a film also reflected a bit more personal development.  Plot, characters, all of this was a little bit more important now.  The second film delivered...sort of.  The same great characters were there but the plot seemed a bit more contrived and forced.  The ghosts didn't seem as threatening this time out and Bill Murray didn't seem as engaged in the whole thing.  I recall mild disappointment (although what can compete with a walking Statue of Liberty when you're 12?) and didn't see the film again for many years.

I recently bought a copy on DVD to see whether my 12-year-old critical judgment had any merit or whether I was just a jaded pre-teen given to quick dismissal of pop culture items that didn't measure up to expectations.  I found that I was both right and wrong.  As a 34-year-old I can say that the plot is very contrived.  It is meant to follow the format of the original from what I can tell (an hour-and-a-half-ish build-up to the confrontation with the big villian, while the Ghostbusters have to battle lesser ghosts as well as annoying Government bureaucrats who want to shut them down) since the original format "worked" and that is what audiences expect from a Ghostbusters movie.  It seems a little unrealistic that the Ghostbusters would be sued out of business after saving the city from an ancient evil deity who would have destroyed the world but hey, why not.  There has to be some explanation for the 5-year absence and a few obstacles to tackle before the big showdown.  The main villian (Vigo, the ancient...uh...evil tyrant) also isn't as legitimately menacing or well-established as Gozer (the terror dogs in the original were actually frightening and the chase-down of Louis was truly funny).  All that said, the courtroom scene is very funny (and closest to the real spirit of the original) and the slime concept is pretty cool.  The slime alone is enough to sustain the movie plot-wise and if it had been the main villian rather than Vigo that would actually have been better.

Which brings us to the characters.  Bill Murray, the leader-among-equals, seems at times to be dialing it in (as does Siguorney Weaver).  At other times, he does seem more engaged (as, also, does Siguorney Weaver).  The other Ghostbusters seem to act about the same as they did in the original, which is where a lot of the film's heart comes from (and why this isn't overall such a bad review).  There isn't enough Rick Moranis screentime but given his secondary role in the overall plot we do get a decent dose of his comic acting.  The same goes for Annie Potts (my childhood crush). It's nice to also see Slimer the ghost here, especially given his popularity from his significant role in the Ghostbusters animated TV series which followed the original movie.

It's ultimately the characters who make this movie for me.  These guys could be reading from the phone book and I would probably listen in.  Watching it in 2011 I felt that while this sequel might be lacking in some respects, overall it was the feel-good adventure movie it was meant to be.  It rightfully doesn't take itself too seriously, which is refreshing for anything related to the action genre (or action-comedy). Great cinema?  No, of course not. But it's definitely worth a watch for those who have a nostalgic streak for fun 80s adventure-comedies.