As a big fan of the film since it was released in 1985, I was looking forward to seeing Blood Simple transferred to DVD.  A cleaned-up widescreen transfer, and maybe a little cleaner audio, were all good things that I wanted to see happen; and with the Director's Cut, it did happen.  However, I think the edits that were made in this version of the film may displease fans of the original -- I know they displease this fan.
I won't go into a laundry-list of the cuts.  They are, for the most part, the removal or trimming of some funny bits and gags that don't really contribute to telling the story; but they do, in my opinion, contribute to the quirky charm of the film without consuming a great deal of time on screen.  Also trimmed are some uncomfortable silences that develop between people in certain scenes; making them not so uncomfortable, I guess, but I don't see this as an improvement.
Most disconcerting to me are some of the music changes.  One that particularly disappointed me is when Ray first confronts Marty on the back steps of the bar.  In the original version, a slow-tempo instrumental country-western tune is playing inside the bar, and after transitioning to the outside, the same song is heard muffled in the background with the bass still booming.  As anyone who has ever stood outside a nightclub can tell you, this is exactly what you hear -- the lower frequencies propagate better than the higher frequencies.  The editors have seen fit to change this to a vocal piece of music that is reduced in volume as the view changes to the outside, but without the realistic frequency balance.  I don't understand why this change was made.  Perhaps some didn't like that the music here wasn't really so much music as it was background sound, or perhaps it was thought to interfere with hearing the conversation; but I think it was a wonderful element in the atmosphere of the scene that I surely miss.
Regarding the new intro with the pompously lecturing gentleman, suffice it to say that it can be fast-forwarded through.
This Director's Cut version delivers basically the same psychological and visceral thrills as the original version, with improved video and audio; but long-time fans, such as myself, may find the changes have done some minor cosmetic harm, rather than good.