In Life as a House, Georges' tearing down and rebuilding of his house symbolizes his relationships as he completely changes Sam who begins to love his father, and Robin who falls back in love with George. On the other hand, as the house is being rebuilt, George starts to geel the effects of his cancer, and begins to die.

  My experience with this film is that I heard that it was a good movie, so I rented it, and watched it on September 27, 2005 at my house.

  At the beginning of this film, we see Sam as this one-sided, angsty teenager, who is on the wrong side of the track, dealing with everything fron drugs to small-time prostitution; yet as George takes Sam for the summer, wanting them to build a house together (with enormous opposition from Sam, mind you) we start to see a bond developing. On event is when George jumps off the cliff and into the ocean. At this point Sam has nothing but hate for his father, saying, "you're totally insane" and "my father is a total wacko". The major turning point in this film is when Sam flips out about George flushing his marijuana down the toilet. Sam starts screaming "You never cared about me before" (minus his bad French) and Georges' response of "Well, now I do care" really hits Sam. George pushes him down on the bed, and makes Sam listen to him, making him realize that he has to change. At this point, Sam himself realizes this, and helps George tear down the house, and their old relationship. We get his sense because the very next morning he wakes up early, and helps George with his house, where he would just lye around doing nothing before; he also is nice to his little brother and Mom for a change. Another aspect that gives us this change in Sam in his apperance; he no longer has his piercings, and has taken off all his makeup. When George finally tells him that he is dying, Sam flips out, starts crying and punching walls; this is a clear indication that he has made a one hundred and eighty degree turn from where he started, he actually cares about his father.

  Another relationship in question is that of Robin, George's ex-wife. Right from the start, we can definitely tell that they are exes; when George tries to touch Robin's fack, she attempts to bite his finger! How much more hatred do you need? Needless to say, there is a definite tension between the two. George happens to tell Robin that she is the most beautiful person he has ever met, and she's shocked jand outraged by this statement. I think this is the moment in the film where she starts doubting her relationship with both George and Peter (her current husband). One evening, when Peter is eating a dinner that Robin fixed for him, she asks him if he thinks it's odd that his kids don't hug him. We can certainly tell by this that she doubts him as a father. She visits Sam the first day he's at Georges', and she comes back the next day, and the next, and the one after that, as well as the next and tomorrow too. She helps George tear down the walls, and brings her kids (that she had with Peter, not George) to help, as well as lunch for weeks. Peter has a talk with Robin about maybe them taking a vacation sometime, but she tells him that she can't because she needs to help George with his house (not in those frank of terms, though); Peter realizes then that Robin doesen't love him anymore. The next day, Robin videotapes the construction, which shows us that she wants to develop her relationship further with George, and she even dances with him. When Peter leaves Robin, she tells George (in a way) that she still loves him, while he as well loves her back. There is tension between the two though, because George tells her that love is not enough, ans when Peter tries to get Robin back, we can tell that she wants to be with George nonetheless.

  On the other hand, while Georges' relationships are being built up simultaneously with his house, he is being torn down with his terminal cancer. This is being played up the most when Sam states that George looks like crap lately, and George responds with 'you're looking better than ever'; this just seems ironic how just when Sam is getter "better" in a sense, that George would be dying, and not be able to be with the new Sam for much longer. One's bar of life, so to speak, is being raised while the other is being lessened. Throughout the construction process, George starts to feel the effects of his cancer; he's taking more and more pills, sleeping in the middle of the day and looking pale and sickly. It seems to be as though it is a sort of re-birth, with Sam and George in the end. George dies, but Sam lives on in the spirit of George.

  We never find out how other people react to Sam's change, and I think that would be interesting to know; maybe we can hope for a sequel.