12 years after his death, Kubrick still casts a massive shadow over popular cinema. His early works showed a mind itching to escape the constraints of formal Hollywood, and although Killer's Kiss is a frustrating exercise in limitation, The Killing is a great film and worth seeking out. His formal visual style and suspension of moral judgement began to hit their straps with Paths of Glory. Douglas, who starred in Paths, sought Kubrick out as a replacement director on Spartacus, the first and least interesting film in this box, very much a formula epic in which Kubrick's talents and interests were subjugated to the studio's requirements. As a reaction, Lolita and the subsequent seven films were shot in the UK under Kubrick's direct control and final cut. Lolita is often overlooked, but introduced his fascination with the banality of manners and society as a thin skin concealing far more unsavoury motivations and intentions. Humbert's folly is allowed to play out in pathetic, almost excruciating humiliation, a pattern revisited in Barry Lyndon and Eyes Wide Shut. Strangelove revels in its pitch black humour and looks pretty fantastic, glad that Sony and Warner could join forces to include it here. 2001 is a visual jewel, the high-def showing details I'd only seen in a 70mm viewing before, and the colours are perfectly rendered, enhancing the film's meditative effect. Clockwork Orange looks the best I've seen it, its garish madness and loopy satire brought to all-too-vivid life. Barry Lyndon benefits the most from high def I think - the previous DVD flatness and awkward aspect ratio are swept away by a vivid and detailed transfer which contrasts beautifully with the ugly banality and greed of Barry's failure, just as intended. The Shining is likewise beautiful, although the sweeping shots of the opening really pick up the 24p motion stagger for some reason. LIke all Kubrick's films, this is both a story laid out in meticulous detail, and a world to revisit - the director's austerity and lack of the crashingly obvious leave the film wide open to interpretation and discovery. Full Metal Jacket is a great film where the familiar structure and order of training is matched by tight editing and deft storytelling in the first half, only to unreel into chaos in the fact of actual combat. The director's insistence on exact lighting and set dressing is revealed by the beautiful tone of this also-excellent transfer. And last, the enigma of Eyes Wide Shut, a film made with the trappings and hallmarks of Hollywood cinema but a dark heart of paranoia and contempt (or acknowledgement) for our moral failings in the midst of wealth, comfort and education.
Blu-ray is great for Kubrick freaks like myself - it simply gets out of the way, presenting the films in superb transfers to allow the technical exactness of his presentation to come across. It's not an exaggeration to say that the quality of these discs actually allows the films to breathe, and to speak the director's mind directly without compromise. Since he used to care so much that he would have staff personally contact cinemas to check on projection equipment and the aspect ratio of masks, this is clearly not a trivial aspect of his art, and I am glad I've been able to own them in such outstanding quality. You should too.