Director Matthew Vaugn's "Stardust" provides a fun and quaint adventure, though the plot feels a little like several mini-adventures loosely tied together.

The story - based on the novel by Neil Gaiman and written for the screen by Jane Goldman and Vaughn - is something of a fantasy-imbued fairy tale. Young Tristan (Charlie Cox) vows to bring back a fallen star to Victoria (Sienna Miller) in hopes of winning her love. He travels to a neighboring secret world, where he meets the Yvaine (Claire Daines), the star herself; Captain Shakespeare (Robert De Niro), a pirate infamous for his evil deeds; Lamia (Michelle Pfeiffer), an evil witch seeking eternal youth, which can be obtained by eating the heart of a fallen star; among others.

The story's both funny and exciting. At times, it seems as if there's a series of great sequences that don't relate to one another very well. Tristan and Victoria's sojourn with Captain Shakespeare, for example, somewhat separates the viewer from the larger story, yet it's still quite entertaining. And, in the end, it's all part of the larger journey, with some minor detours.

The world is imaginative, and Ben Davis' cinematography combined with Gavin Bocquet's production design help add to the beautiful wonder. In this world, stars become human but with a special power that makes many humans envious. Powerful magic creates detailed illusions. Large boats float among the clouds in the sky, where lightning is collected and sold. Sure, there's similarities to other works of fantasy, but there's enough different here to make it seem pretty unique.

Daines is quite good, showing a woman who, at first, is a little haughty and quite annoyed about being knocked from her place in the sky, however, she soon finds a way to open up her heart. She believes and true and unconditional love, seeing it as humans' one redeeming quality. "I know a lot about love. I've seen centuries and centuries of it, and it was the only thing that made watching your world bearable," she says, and Daines sell it nicely.

Cox does OK. His part mostly seems of one note, a man clueless about love but determined to find it. He does play that note well enough, though, and there are moments of a multi-layered performance. Another stronger actor might have done a much better job with this role, making the love more real, but Cox doesn't bring down the show either.

Pfeiffer is quite enjoyable as the evil witch, showing pride, vanity and determination. She's disgusted by those she sees as less than herself, which is pretty much everybody. And she's also infuriated as her temporary youth enchantment begins to wear off, and parts of the old, ugly woman she really is starts to show through.

De Niro's very funny, trying hard to appear ruthless because he has a reputation he must live up to. And he's also got a secret that there's more to this evil pirate captain than one might think, and it's a secret that may very well bring lots of giggles. It's certainly not De Niro's best work, but he does it with charm and dignity that it's hard to imagine anyone else in the role.

Sure, "Stardust" gets a little sappy at times, which for some may be a bad thing. But it makes up for that with a good dose of humor, fun adventures and wonderful imagery. And the plot may feel like it was pieced together in a rush, but each of those pieces add a charming element to the tale that would be a shame to lose.