There's really not much I can add to what's been said here. The actors performances all around were outstanding, and the production values first rate. Cudo's to the Producers for the innovative decision to use Civil War  reenactors as extras. One can only imagine the sense of pride, and the  lifetime of memories  these men experienced in reliving this most important  of battles on such a grand scale.  There's been some debate here  regarding which people and parts of the historical battles were left out. I  agree it's a shame that so much couldn't be included. However, I agree with  one person that including the entire three day battle would have given us a  film that was about eight hours long. (Not that I would have considered  this a bad thing of course.)  In any case, if viewers are like me,  they'll naturally assume on their own that a lot was left out, and be  inspired to head down to their local library to find out more. That's  certainly what I did first thing. Also kicking myself for not visiting more  Civil War sites while growing up on the east coast. The possibility alone  of inspiring curiosity should in itself make this movie required viewing in  every High school history class. It's properly dramatic, tells a balanced  view of both sides, and is certainly exciting enough to hold even the most  attention-deprived teenagers interest.
  The only real negative I found  here is the serious lack of blood in the film. War is a very bloody  business, and GETTYSBURG seems to be fully in the  `shoot-people-and-they-fall-down' school of moviemaking. The complete  opposite of say, GLORY. I can somewhat understand the reasoning behind  this, since it was partially made to be shown on television, and a lot of  blood and guts would distract from the magnificence of the story and  perhaps even turn off some potential viewers who'd get a lot out of it.  Still, for this lack of realism I have to demote one star from the  rating.
  This is another film that badly needs a DVD release. A 2-disk  set with deleted footage, directors/historian commentary track, and a copy  of the `Making of...' special would send this right to the top of my must  have list. Let's hope the folks at Turner productions have this in mind  someday.  Buy this film, preferably in letterboxed format. You will NOT be  dissapointed.