When was the last time you went to see a movie that made you think, one that stayed with you after you left the theater? Well, Bill Paxton's FRAILTY is such a film and if you like thrillers that are weightier than your average Hollywood fare, there's a lot to recommend it besides its depth of thought.
  FRAILTY is a movie about a serial killer (God's Hands) and a man (played by Matthew McConaughy) who claims to know the killer's true identity. Most of the film is told in flashbacks while McConaughy tells his story to FBI Agent  Wesley Doyle (Powers Boothe), recalling how his father (Bill Paxton) indoctrinated his brother and himself into his bizarre beliefs.
  One of the things that first time director Paxton does brilliantly in this film is that he is very careful about the way he depicts violence. There are more than enough opportunities to send even the sturdiest filmgoer screaming from the theater in disgust, but Paxton downplays the visual side of the violence in all but a couple of instances, focusing instead on the reactions of the characters to the murders. Paxton chooses not to go for the cheap "gross-out", opting instead to disturb us on a far more subtle level. 
  And, to talk about the subtleties of the film, you have to deal with the performances. Paxton, McConaughy and Boothe may be the "stars" of the film, but the film's best (and most disturbing) performances come from the kids. Paxton manages to coax performances from child actors Matthew O'Leary and Jeremy Sumpter that are not only heart-wrenching, but totally believable, a job that is worthy of praise from any director. The boys' characters never seem forced and their reactions to the horrors they are presented with  are very different...and very telling.
  Another of the "firsts" in this film, aside from Paxton's directorial debut, is a screenplay from Brent Hanley, who gives us a screenplay with as many twists and turns as a good Texas back-country road, which also happens to be where Hanley sets his story. Going into the film, this was an aspect of FRAILTY that I was very interested in. Since Paxton, McConaughy and Boothe are all three Texans, I was curious as to how the Lone Star state would be depicted. Later I was disappointed to find out that the entire movie was shot on location in California, but many of the scenes in the movie look a lot like what you might really find in Texas. If you were to squint really hard, that is.
  But when all is said and done, what matters most is that FRAILTY leaves you thinking about some important questions and the fact that it doesn't give any easy answers. In fact, some of the questions are deliberately (or so I suppose) left hanging, making this a film that will stick with audiences a long time after the lights have come up.