I'm the first person I know who would completely go against Hollywood for remaking what is, in my eyes, a classic. I've always been vehemently opposed to remade classics such as 'Planet of the Apes', "Psycho', and the list goes on, with Hollywood taking some perfectly wonderful classics and simply ruining them in the name of more money and a lack of original ideas.
Yet with a remake and rename to 'Charlie and the Chocolate Factory',I was pleasantly surprised for two reasons:
1) The original grasped at some potentially high-tech-like and creepy scenes that would've looked much better with good technology, which, at the time, was unavailable (creepy boat scene in the chocolate waters, the TV Room scene with the little boy who shrunk, the glass elevator ...or, respectively, Wonkivator. These scenes looked great in the remake - when good movie-making technology remakes a classic that didn't yet have the equipment, it makes it look good, and in this case, looks DO stand to benefit the movie.
2) As a nutty fan of Gene Wilder, who did a wonderful job as the original Willy Wonka, I do think Johnny Depp worked for this movie, and worked very, very well. People need to stop criticizing him. For one, he's a good actor. Second, he's also a great COMIC actor. He picks up on the nuances, has excellent timing, and shares a similar facial control to Gene Wilder, enabling him to deliver comedic lines with that same dead-pan stillness which Gene Wilder was notorious for. Johnny Dep is also one of the few actors today who is unafraid to take chances, and his Wonka character was creepy in how androgynous and eccentric it was. I laughed when he seemed to throw up a little in his mouth evert time the term 'parents' came up. I don't think any other actor would've been as good for the role of Wonka.
All in all, the acting was actually very good in this movie, including the minor characters. I always found Charlie to be a minor character in this movie, and in this remake I kept thinking 'Tiny Tim' or 'Oliver Twist'. I kept expecting Charlie to finish a chocolate bar and then grovel to Wonka, "Please sir, can I have some more?" He was cute, in that gaunt, poor way, and I had the urge to feed him lots of porridge.
Now, the bad: Overall, the story is okay, though there are some key elements missing, and those were what put a big damper on the movie for me. The mysterious man in the original, whose name I forget, the one who acts like a competitor for Wonka's chocolate recipes, trying to secretly bribe the children into extracting a piece of candy to analyze the ingredients, is missing. His character, in my opinion, was central. He was essentially greed, one of the main motivators of it. He was a test to distinguish which child was natually loyal, and which was a greedy little brat.
In the remake, Charlie automatically wins by default because all the other kids are gone. Wonka, for being so concerned about his precious Ooomap-Loompas and factory, is willing to surrender it all to a random boy simply based on DEFAULT? I think not.
And to make matters worse, there was that little wounded child scenario, with Wonka's estranged daddy, and the reunion. I think I threw up in my mouth a little when I saw that. Don't mean to sound cynical here, but the beauty of the original "Willy Wonka"  was about a mysterious, cynical man whose heart melts when he finds someone worthy and loyal enough that he can trust as his heir, not his therapist, for cryin' out loud. The beuaty was that Wonka never needed to explain to himself...he was a weird, eccentric guy, unapologetic and, well, weird. The other thing about him was that he was enigmatic. Does anyone remember a time when a character could be this way without being BAD? Does anyone remember when enigmatic, unexplained behavior in a character, in a FANTASY story no less, worked, without everyone needing to jump on the bandwagon and dissect the character, coldly sucking out his insides and calling him a pervert? It's just sad.
This daddy thing just ruins Wonka's character completely and keeps pointing out his shortcomings and bad childhood. I felt like I was beginning to read the introduction to a very bad self-help book after a while. This was a movie, after all, a fantasty, not a self-help book, or am I wrong??
All in all, the acting was great for me, but the script was poorly written. Someone took their Daddy issues and insisted on shoving them in, which annoyed me. But I think it's an okay movie, as long as you have the classic handy and watch that too, because that is the real thing.