OK, after reading some of the reviews that have been posted since my last one, I feel obligated to clear a few things up.
First and foremost, to anybody who keeps referring to this as the "original" TMNT: this cartoon series was NOT the first incarnation of the turtles!  TMNT started out as a black-and-white, PG-13 rated comic book series created by Peter Laird and Kevin Eastman in 1984, 3 years before the original cartoon ever premiered.  It was definitely NOT something for young kids to look at due to the amount of violence and general content of it, plus ALL the turtles wore red in that one, not just Raphael; the only reason they have different colored bandanas in the cartoon was so children could distinguish who was who.  It was this series that about 90% of the first movie and the current cartoon are based off of.
Next, for those who are totally confused about Dregg:  Dregg is an alien, meaning he's not from Dimension X.  He's in no way connected to Shredder and Krang other than when he pulled them out of Dimension X in the hope that they could help him defeat the turtles in a 3-episode story arc in the last season of the cartoon.  He didn't totally come out of the blue either; in the first episode of season 9, "The Unknown Ninja", Dregg makes his debut when his ship (the Dreggnaut) enters our solar system.  He's a fugitive of war and trying to find gold (for what purpose I don't remember).  One thing leads to another, and he and Hi-Tech make plans to sneakily conquer Earth, and of course the Turtles come to the rescue.
Now, what do I actually have to say about this particular DVD?  Not much since I've already reviewed it twice below, but I will say this:  given the reaction of some of the people who bought this and their disappointment with the content of the DVD, I have my own personal hopes that this was nothing more than a market field test to see how much people wanted to see this show on DVD.  I think it worked out pretty well, which brings me to my suggessting to Artisan if they're reading this:  give the show its proper "season set" treatment including a basic cover art layout that can be applied to all future sets, more appropriate bonus materials such as old toy commercials et cetera, and, while it might be impossible to do, a complete remastering of the audio and video, including replacing the modified/muffled version of the opening theme with the one where "Heroes in a half-shell" isn't distorted (it exists, I have it too).
This release still deserves all 5 stars regardless.