Director Ron Shelton takes several compelling elements for another potentially intriguing take on police corruption.  First you have Kurt Russell's blistering performance as a bad cop.  Second, you have Ving Rhames (always powerful) as his straight arrow boss who's out to nail him.  And finally, you have all this drawn against the backdrop of the Rodney King Riots.  The potential for Russell and Rhames alone, in what surely could have been a great opportunity for both actors to stretch, to go head to head was enough to warrant this film a serious look.  So what do we get instead?  In what appears to be an attempt to pull in a younger audience, Russell is assigned a younger partner, played by Scott Speedman.  And right away the movie goes downhill.  First of all, there is simply no way you buy Speedman as a cop, or for that matter, Russell's character even beginning to take him seriously.  He simply looks and comes across like some actor practicing for a role on NYPD Blue (also currently going downhill for similar reasons).  Second, they put him in a completely unbelievable romance with another officer (played by Michael Michele, formerly of ER and also wasted).  Beyond that, we find that the romance is part of some unnecessary triangle involving Rhames character.  What does this all add up to?  Nothing remotely interesting as we spend half the film anticipating the riots and the other half wondering when the hell Russell and Rhames are going to get a chance to come after each other.  Instead the film wastes valuable story time on Speedman's various conflicts with corruption, already done much more effectively in Training Day.  I'm not sure how faithful the script is to James Ellroy's novel, but onscreen it comes across like Shelton is so intent upon recreating the interplay we've already seen in Training Day that he loses sight of the strengths in the characters played by Russell and Rhames.  The story should have focused on their conflicts and, like the riots themselves, built up to a breaking point.  Still, it's worth renting just to see Russell let loose, as well as an interesting attempt to bring a slice of real-life Los Angeles history into the mix.  It's too bad that with this film and the recent Hollywood Homicide, Shelton seems to be slipping.  But considering the film business, I guess he's happy to still be working, even if it means compromise.