"Leaving Las Vegas" is a dark and tragic film that shows you how low you can fall and just how bad things can get.  It portrays a dead-on picture of alcoholism and what exactly one goes through when they've hit rock bottom.  As tragic as it is, this is a very beautiful and well-done film that keeps your attention to the bitter end.
Ben Sanderson (Nicholas Cage) is an alcoholic who has nothing left to live for but the very booze that seems to be the only happiness he can find.  His friends want nothing to do with him and women are disgusted by him.  After being let go from his job, Ben burns all of his possessions and moves to Las Vegas, where his only plan is to drink himself to death.  In a short amount of time he meets Sera (Elisabeth Shue), a lonely hooker who has been through it all.  An unexpected bond is formed between the two and love falls upon them that can only end in tragedy.
Boy, was this a hard movie to watch, but it was so well-done and executed.  You are able to sympathize with both Ben and Sera, despite the paths they have chosen.  Nicholas Cage was amazing and brilliant.  No wonder why he won an Academy Award for his performance.  You really buy into the fact that he is this sad character who wants nothing more but to destroy himself by the only thing that can bring him some sense of false happiness.  Shue is also terrific in her role and should be applauded as well.  The two are explosive as a team and can really bring the house down.
The DVD is fair; nothing too special.  You can have your choice of either watching the movie in widescreen or full screen.  The picture for the most part looks good; not the best, but good.  The main special feature this DVD offers is a trailer for the film and a bonus secret page.  It would be nice if they decided to re-release this in a more superior version.
"Leaving Las Vegas" is drama at its best.  It's heartbreaking, but at the same time is satisfying.  It's emotionally charged from start to finish.  The writing is poetic, the acting is electric, and the directing is fantastic.  Be warned, this is not a "feel-good" movie.  It's a portrait of harsh reality and it doesn't go easy on you for a second.  If you want a powerhouse drama that will keep you emotionally involved, this is the one for you.  A terrific and amazing film on every front.