I sat up late in my living room with insomnia, when this movie came on the sci-fi channel. It was so preposterous that I had an out of body moment until my son came down for a late-night snack. He stopped in front of the TV, and in two minutes he looked at me and said, incredulously: "Really?" Then he burst out in deep bass teen testosterone laughter. He went into the kitchen and returned with a huge smorgasbord of leftover bbq ribs, brown rice & red kidney beans, a thick slice of my favorite online vegan "The World's Best Carrot Cake", a bag of kettle chips, a banana, a chobani blueberry Greek yogurt, and a 20oz cup of "low fat" chocolate milk. He sat down on floor rug watching this crazy movie, eating 20lbs of food at midnight, and looked at me and calmly said: "movies like this make the case for legalizing marijuana". If he wasn't a lithe, athletic teenage boy who ate like 5 lumberjacks and 4 pregnant women, several times a day, Id've sent him to Labcorp just on circumstantial evidence.

So, about the story: Genetically Modified Piranha take on everything from a Navy nuclear sub, to a lone wolf martial artist and a lone wolf scientist. They're growing by the minute, went from fresh to salt water, and finally make it to Miami Beach, where they are eating everyone including a news reporter who got swallowed whole, (is that a bad thing?). Suv-sized, juicy, flying, voracious fish stuck in condo windows, 15 stories high, it's hilarious! My son and I laughed so hard, I almost had to do the Heimlich on him with his mouth full of food.

This movie makes me think of the triple feature movies they used to show in the NYC Times Square area when I wad a teen, and we kids would cut class to see them all. The first movie would be an A-rate film like Indiana Jones, the next would be a B-rate, like Fast Times at Ridgemont High or Robocop (this would be Mega Piranha's slot), and the final would be something C-rate & ignorant like Cheech and Chong, or Dolomite (This could also be mega piranah's slot).

This movie cheered me up, and made a great bed-time story. Everyone involved in this movie, from the writer, producer, director, actors, etc. must've been smoking some serious stuff to put this movie out.