Pan's Labyrinth is a movie that brings to life images and stories that are best described from the books of Joseph Campbell and Carl Jung.

First there are no spoiler alerts since this is a type of movie you want to see  again and again. Not wanting to know what happened would be like saying, "don't tell me the plot of The Passion of the Christ because I haven't read the book yet".

There are different ways of viewing this movie but it would be unbearable to only see it from the point of view of reality. The unrelenting violence and the cruel fate of Ofelia would make the movie too dark to watch. Instead, this is a movie about a young girl's personal mythology which brings her redemption and salvation on a mythic level.

Note that there seems to be an intentional absence of reference to institutional religion,  in the real world. Western religion, science and modern secular thinking prevent most people  from "getting" this movie. But if it gets you, it will haunt you deeply.

The story opens as it will end, with Ofelia lay dying from a gunshot wound from her stepfather, the evil Captain Vidal. In her dying moment, she dreams the story of a princess  who escaped from the Underworld in order to see what  life is. As the story is told,  the princess forgets she is an immortal deity  and dies as a mortal in the real world. Her father-king vows to wait for his daughter's return to the Underworld until the earth stops spinning .

The real world is revealed in scenes of violence and torture that are too painful to watch. Captain Vidal is the leader of a group of Facist soldiers who are fighting a group of rebel fighters in a dark and dreary land deep in the woods. Ofelia and her mother have traveled from a city to be with Captain Vidal at his post so that he can witness the birth of his son.

While at this post one night, Ofelia is led by a fairy to meet a deity named Pan in a labyrinth which  is beside the house she is staying at. Pan is an earth faun who has been searching for the spirit of the princess in the real world and thinks Ofelia might be her incarnation. Ofelia must perform three tasks before the next full moon in order to prove this is true.

Her first task is to defeat a toad like monster that lives in the roots of an old tree. This she does and is rewarded with a key. It is also a scene that suggests a start of the rebirth that will transform her mortal identity into a deity.

Her next task is to defeat another monster who sits at the head of a dinner table. She is warned by Pan not to eat any food during this time. And she goes and eats two grapes at the dinner table of the monster. She has failed in her tasks and will now be cut off from the Underworld forever.

Meanwhile in the real world, things are looking even grimmer. Ofelia's only friend, the housekeeper, has been captured as a rebel spy,  and her mother is sick and in pain from her pregnancy. Captain Vidal has discovered Ofelia had put a magic plant-root under her mother's bed in order to cure her mother's sickness. Her mother throws the root into a fireplace and tells Ofelia to stop dreaming and live in the real world. Her mother then goes into labor and dies giving birth to her son. Ofelia has  been cast down into the basement by Captain Vidal. The rebels begin there attack on the post.

Pan gives Ofelia a second chance. She is to bring her new born brother to Pan in order to make a small blood offering. Ofelia goes and gets the baby and brings the baby but she is followed by her evil stepfather into the labyrinth. She refuses Pan's order to hand him the baby so that a blood offering can be made so that she can return to the Underworld. The stepfather shoots Ofelia and takes the baby.

The movie ends as it began, with Ofelia bleeding and dying. The houskeeper weeps over her as we hear Ofelia's song. Ofelia dreams she is re-united with her real father-king and her mother as a princess of the Underworld.

In order to give Ofelia's life meaning you want to believe,
... there is a moment at the labyrinth's alter when the pain and suffering of the real world and the rapture of the
Underworld intersect, and Ofelia is right in the center of it all, transformed from a living incarnation of the spirit of a princess back into a deity for all eternity ...

It is a story that goes round and round in a circle and it is a work of great cinematic art.