The Hand That Rocks the Cradle is a cliched`, predictable, amatuerish Fatal Attraction wannabe, that managed to rise to classic cult status, I think for mis-guided reasons.  The main reason always seems to have been the overrated performance by Rebecca DeMornay as Peyton.  DeMornay is not a great actress, but she was able to fake it in this movie by not being required to do too much, and still look good -- just move around the movie slowly like a cold calculating robot, and throw a few hissy fits here and there.  DeMornay's performance here could've been duplicated by countless Hollywood actresses.

If you compare this to Fatal Attraction, you can SEE how amatuerish, predictable and cliched` it is.  We start off with the Bartel's American dream house, Claire (Annabella Sciorra) doesn't have to work because of her handsome successful husband Michael, who's also happens to be the most sensitive husband in movie history.  Oh, yes, the white picket fence is on the way, seriously, as soon as Solomon, their hired black mentally-challenged handyman gets to work on it, who's also initally depicted as having no business tip-toeing around an upper-class Seattle suburb.  If you're wondering if Claire has the cliched` sarcastic, mouthy best friend, yup, she's here too -- Marlene (played by Julianne Moore).  Claire is pregnant and visits the obstetrician, and it bit of giveaway casting and writing, Claire's regular doctor is out of town, and the interim doctor is Q from Star Trek, who's left alone in the examining room with Claire -- you can guess what happens next.  All this leads to the ruin of Peyton's family, and she, apparently, proceeds to try to steal Claire's family in revenge, by infiltrating the Bartel's home under the guise of a nanny caring for Claire's new born, six month later.  What follows is you probably being able to predict what will happen next, at every turn.  The only surprise is the man working at the cleaners being the smartest person in the whole movie.

The movie tries to be sophisticated, but overdoes it, through things like ridiculously frank discussions about sex among two married couples just grabbing a bite to eat at a restaurant, so much so that it comes across as forced and amatuerish.

And a question that begs to be asked -- was the doctor/molestation part even needed?  Because Peyton never actually voices her motivation for doing what she did to the Bartel's.  After the initial anguish over losing her baby, Peyton never again reveals any hint of emotional pain or suffering on her part about her loss, and never tells the Bartels what she was feeling inside or why she was doing this to them.  The movie never again explored Peyton's inner pain, it instead just concerned itself with the sensationalism of Peyton's evil acts.  Peyton might as well have been just some unstable obsessive person who just fixated on the Bartels for some unknown reason.

But finally, the movie can be entertaining if you just don't expect more than what it is.  If you feel you need this "classic" in your movie library, you might wanna wait till a better DVD version comes out, better than the bare bones DVD that was originally released.