The 1990 movie Lord of the Flies is entertaining, but if you have a report on the book due tomorrow, buy the cliff notes, don't rent the movie.  There are better movies in the "stuck on an island" genre, but it does keep your attention.  A bit bloody at some parts, one does not know whether to laugh or cry at the events that befall the young boarding school boys who must survive on an uninhabited island.  Perhaps this is but another movie not looking to retell a classic novel, but looking for a quick buck in blood and curses.  The differences between the book and movie are astounding.  There are many obvious points such as the time setting; a difference between the 1940's and the 1990's.  The list can continue, but the difference that really changes the entire experience of the story is the tone.  The book holds a dark tone, making the idea of ten-year-olds murdering disturbing.  Their innocence and naivete makes the shock even greater when they murder Simon in the middle of a game.  Consider the movie on the other hand.  In this age, the age of Sylvester Stallone and school shootings, eleven year olds dropping a rock on the fat kid's head is funny.  Their innocence is shattered in the foul language they use, and their American accents allow you to think of them as just another group of kids killing each other, the same thing you see on TV every night.  The different versions definitely convey a different tone, one a bloody clich&eacute; modern movie, the other a dark book that leaves you a bit perturbed.  So in reviewing this movie, remember that it is not the age-old story of fear and survival, but a modern movie looking for profit in blood.  On that level, the movie is a lark.  You have the simple laughs, ones that can only come from people calling the fat kid "tits."  You have the exciting appeal of surviving on an island; which opens up all kinds of conversations you can have with your date about what you would do if you were stuck on an island.  And you have the big rock falling on the fat kid's head, all in all making it an entertaining movie.  There are two reasons why one would rent or purchase this movie.  One would be for that poor child who has a book report due the next day and is going to stay up all night doing it.  Don't rent the movie.  Skimming through the book would be a better bet.  Or one would rent it for a slightly entertaining slightly juvenile film.  In that case, rent it and laugh at the fat kid.  
 The 1990 movie Lord of the Flies is entertaining, but if you have a report on the book due tomorrow, buy the cliff notes, don't rent the movie.  There are better movies in the "stuck on an island" genre, but it does keep your attention.  A bit bloody at some parts, one does not know whether to laugh or cry at the events that befall the young boarding school boys who must survive on an uninhabited island.  Perhaps this is but another movie not looking to retell a classic novel, but looking for a quick buck in blood and curses.  The differences between the book and movie are astounding.  There are many obvious points such as the time setting; a difference between the 1940's and the 1990's.  The list can continue on the differences, but the difference that really changes the entire experience of the story is the tone.  The book holds a dark tone, making the idea of ten-year-olds murdering disturbing.  Their innocence and naivete makes the shock even greater when they murder Simon in the middle of a game.  Consider the movie on the other hand.  In this age, the age of Sylvester Stallone and school shootings, eleven year olds dropping a rock on the fat kid's head is funny.  Their innocence is shattered in the foul language they use, and their American accents allow you to think of them as just another group of kids killing each other, the same thing you see on TV every night.  The different versions definitely convey a different tone, one a bloody clich&eacute; modern movie, the other a dark book that leaves you a bit perturbed.  So in reviewing this movie, remember that it is not the age-old story of fear and survival, but a modern movie looking for profit in blood.  On that level, the movie is a lark.  You have the simple laughs, ones that can only come from people calling the fat kid "tits."  You have the exciting appeal of surviving on an island; which opens up all kinds of conversations you can have with your date about what you would do if you were stuck on an island.  And you have the big rock falling on the fat kid's head, all in all making it an entertaining movie.  There are two reasons why one would rent or purchase this movie.  One would be for that poor child who has a book report due the next day and is going to stay up all night doing it.  Don't rent the movie.  Skimming through the book would be a better bet.  Or one would rent it for a slightly entertaining slightly juvenile film.  In that case, rent it and laugh at the fat kid.