Black and White stand together on the field of battle, fighting a war against the racism of the ignorant southerners.  The Civil War?  No, a football team in a newly integrated town in Virginia.

 Remember the Titans starts with racial conflicts in the town, and then shows the progression of different players, like Gerry Bertier (Ryan Hurst) and Julius Campbell (Wood Harris), and of the town as a whole, as the team learns to accept their differences and to get past them.  The transformation starts at the intense training camp at a nearby college.  There, Coach Boone (Denzel Washington), the African American coach who has replaced the white Coach Yoast (Will Patton) as head coach, forces students to interact with their teammates of the other race.  Here, they start to learn to work as a team, without worrying about race and skin color.  However, after returning to the town, they reenter the "real world" where black and white are still supposed to be separate, and where they are constantly reminded of this by the townspeople (like in racial incidents in the hallways of the school, or bricks thrown through Coach Boone's window).  The town eventually learns, just as the team did, that black and white can live together happily, and peacefully.

The movie, though both entertaining and educational, overstresses the unity of black and white.  Every chance there is, the directors put in some symbol of the togetherness.  Gerry Bertier and Julius Campbell change from rivals and almost enemies, to "brothers," holding hands while Gerry is in the hospital.  Gerry's girlfriend (Kate Bosworth), who previously had slighted Julius for being black, shakes his hand before the final game, and, after winning the championship, Coach Boone and Coach Yoast, black and white, hold up the ball together.

 Remember the Titans overplays many of the racial issues and makes plot changes, so it should not be watched for any history lesson.  The rioting shown in the opening scenes never happened at anywhere near that level, and the racial tensions were never that high.  In fact, the school was never segregated, and had been mixed race since it opened its doors two years before the movie is set.  One character, Alan Bosley (Ryan Gosling), never really existed, but was added in to the movie to show the tension caused by black players playing ahead of white players.  Other characters were simply changed, like Ronnie "Sunshine" Bass (Kip Pardue), who, although portrayed as homosexual, was not actually gay.  Some other minor characters, like three daughters of Coach Yoast were simply removed from the movie.  On top of this, the actual storyline has been altered quite a bit.  Gerry Bertier played in the championship game, and was only injured after the game.  The championship game was also altered, as the Titans actually won comfortably 27-0, without any last minute heroics. While taking away from the historical accuracy of the movie, these changes add suspense and emotion, making it an overall more entertaining film.

 Remember the Titans is definitely an entertaining and inspiring movie.  Leads Denzel Washington and Will Patton played well off each other, as did Ryan Hurst (as Gerry Bertier) and Wood Harris (as Julius Campbell).  The cinematography was rather bland, using mainly simple panning or stationary shots, although scenes from Gettysburg and from the car smashing were refreshing changes.  Also, although not necessarily accurate, the new, edited story is gripping, alternately causing overflows of either adrenaline or tears.  Remember the Titans is definitely worthy of the 8 awards it won, although it should never be used as a historical guide to understand this time period.