This is the film that transformed me from a fan of movies to a lover of cinema.  I have probably seen this film more than any other single one -  certainly over a dozen times over the years.  Some of the Amazon customer  reviewers felt the film moved too slowly, or was not stimulating enough in  black and white.  For such moviegoers this film is definitely not for you.  However, for those who enjoy films that speak on many different levels and  provoke thoughts that linger with the viewer, this is a masterpiece.
The  action takes place in Europe after the crusades.  A knight, Antonius Bloch,  is returning to his home in Denmark.  He is accompanied by his squire.  Block is an idealist who joined the crusades because he wanted to do  something significant in his life.  However the crusades turned out to be  completely disillusioning.  On his journey he notes that the plague is  sweeping across the land.  Superstition reigns, along with a severe version  of religion.  His squire is not as bothered by what he has seen, having  been much more cynical all along.  Still, the squire has a strong sense of  justice that is demonstrated when he saves a girl from an attack.  
Along  the way a number of people join with the knight for protection.  These  include a troupe of actors, a blacksmith and his faithless wife, and the  woman the squire rescued.  Death is lurking, and confronts the knight,  informing him that his time has expired.  The knight protests that he  cannot die before having accomplished something significant.  Death says,  "They all say that," but the knight insists, and successfully challenges  Death to a chess match.  This gives the knight additional time to make his  life worthwhile.
The knight has tried to accomplish the BIG act based on  a profound sense of life and of God.  The juggler and his wife have a much  simpler idea of life, God, and goodness.  As Death is on the verge of  winning the chess match and taking everyone in the knight's party, the  juggler wakes his wife and child to flee.  The knight recognizes that the  juggler has seen Death, and upsets the chessboard to distract his opponent.  This gives the juggler just enough time to escape.  Death asks the knight  whether the delay was worth it, and the knight gives an enigmatic smile.  He has accomplished his worthy act, not by saving the world, but by saving  just one family.
Everything about this fine film is outstanding, from the  acting to the cinematography to the direction.  The Criterion transfer  restores the film to the best possible condition.  The commentary tracks  are very informative.  Many movies have parodied The Seventh Seal,  including Woody Allen and Bill and Ted's Adventure series.  None of that  has taken away from its greatness.  I give this film the highest  recommendation.