MIGHT include SPOILERS but I'm not sure.

When I first heard the song "Pretty Women" from this movie, I loved it. When I saw who sang it, I flipped. Yes fellow fans; in this movie, John Christopher Depp the II sings! I was so shocked that I barely noticed all the blood. And anyway, most of it was shot in Johnny's face, so it was more funny then scary. The movie itself is actually really sad. People say it's scary, but if you look past all the blood,  past Sweeney's (Depp) menacing look, and past Helena Bonham Carter's crazy hair, right down in that hidden plot, you might just cry at the end.

While a barber, Benjamin Barker, and his wife, Lucy, are out in the market with their 2 year-old daughter, Johanna, the powerful reigning magistrate of London, Judge Turpin, sees Lucy and falls madly in love. But when he sees Benjamin next to her, he realizes the maid is taken. Jealous of Benjamin, he sends him to prison for 15 years in Australia. Lucy is now his, but Lucy does not love him, so, in short, he rapes her.

Feeling helpless, Lucy drinks arsenic with Mrs. Lovett (Carter), a close friend, near her. Turpin is now left with Johanna.

15 years later, Benjamin is released. But in his anger, he gives himself a new, and menacing name; Sweeney Todd. Returning to London, he goes back into the barber business. He hopes his wife is still alright, and he will finally meet his daughter. But that fate is not to be. Mrs. Lovett tells him that Lucy killed herself with arsenic and that Turpin kidnapped Johanna and raised her as his own, keeping her locked up. Believing his wife is dead, and admitting that he may never meet his daughter, he felt it necessary to get revenge, by killing the Judge, but he can't. Later, a new barber comes in, intending to blackmail Sweeney. Sweeney responds by killing him. But what to do with the body? Mrs. Lovett reasons with Sweeney, saying you can't just toss people in a trunk, that they'd rot and start to stink, and then the police would come. She then suggests putting the meat from the blackmailer into her pies. The pies sell so well that she needs more meat. She asks Sweeney to help her by luring people into his barber shop and then killing them.
Thinking there's no other reason to live, Sweeney agrees, hoping to rid the world of people like Turpin (in his opinion).

But is Lucy really dead, or did Mrs. Lovett lie to "Romeo" (Sweeney) about "Juliet" (Lucy)?
BUH BUH BUMM (couldn't resist).