Beautiful cinematography, excellent script, thoughtful, excellent acting, combined with understated direction offers a glimpse into a very profound reawakening of life.

Anne Reid delivers a brilliant performance as May, transforming from grandmother, mother and wife, to lover. She opens the film with her husband (played by Peter Vaughan), as dull and preoccupied. Her life appears to be lived `asleep at the wheel'.

The ensuing speed of her husband's unexpected death, the tremendous state of shock, and the subsequent `awakening' surpassed my description of `beautiful portrayed'. Daniel Craig delivers a complex performance as May's daughter's married lover Darren. He pulls off an even deeper character complexity with the ensuing love affair (older woman and a younger man). May and Darren are passionately, tastefully and believably depicted. May's adult children Bobby (Steven Mackintosh), and Paula (Cathryn Bradshaw) bring their characters to life.

The Mother (2003) is a beautiful film that would best be seen in a darkened cinema. Fortunately, it transfers well to DVD and the small screen with the huge perk of a selection choice of the director's comments that you can turn on for the second viewing. This DVD also contacts a `Featurette' containing short interviews with one of the actors, Daniel Craig, the director, Roger Michell and screenwriter, Hanif Kureishi.Roger Mitchell has it in him to direct great films, and he can add The Mother to his successes. Hanif Kureishi remains a genius at capturing interpersonal chemistry between characters through fantastic dialogue, which bleeds beyond the family into the `extended family and friends'.

One of the many examples of the unpredictably, beautiful cinematography slipped in when May was washing her face, after her 'awakening'. The camera films from below the glass sink through the air bubbles, viewing up to the surface, to May dunking her hands into the water to slash her face; an elegant metaphor.

This film pivots around a dramatic event tendering a slice of life, which felt true to me. I came away from The Mother with the feeling that brilliant flames can erupt into a seemingly sleeping life with the disheveled, unpredictable stuff of life ensuing.