It's become a rare thing for me when I can truly laugh at something Hollywood puts out nowadays. After all, I'm not 17 and obsessed with bodily functions anymore. So what's out there for me that's funny? This movie. While it's a rare thing that I can laugh at a Hollywood movie, it's even rarer when I can revel in it.

"Very few people know what it is to be truly hated..."

So begins the story of Nick Naylor, the Tobacco industry's chief lobbyist in Washington. From the conference room of the Academy of Tobacco Studies to the back room in a Washington restaurant, Nick is great at talking shop. And when the camera turns his way, he's always ready to carry the day by turning accepted wisdom on its head.

"You know the guy who can pick up any girl? I'm him-on crack."

"Michael Jordan plays ball. Charles Manson kills people. I talk."

Yes, Mr Naylor is good at what he does and he knows it. In his line of work, it comes with the territory. But things are not quite so rosy for old Nick. He's divorced. He's trying to raise his son right despite his ex despising what he stands for. His ideas for his industry's future get ripped off by his boss. He's even got to go on the occasional trip to bribe former tobacco icons. And then there are the live TV death threats. Yet despite it all, Naylor remains upbeat enough to still go back into the lions' den and sit for interviews with anti-smoking crusaders on TV, newspapers and even in Congress.

One of the things that makes this movie great is its casting. Aaron Eckhart gives a wonderful performance as Naylor, but the supporting cast is just as well considered. Cameron Bright gives a remarkably subtle performance as son Joey. Maria Bello and David Koechner are the perfect foils for one another as Naylor's lobbyist compatriots. Even Rob Lowe gives a shamelessly smooth performance as the Katzenberg-inspired agent Jeff Megall. When the score is tallied, you have a movie that does for lobbyists what "Wag the Dog" did for PR flacks, yet without the megawatt star power of Robert De Niro or Dustin Hoffman.

I love this movie-it's a gem. Writer and first-time director Jason Reitman has definitely learned something good from his father, legendary "Animal House" producer and "Ghostbusters" director Ivan Reitman, about how to put together a movie that is both funny and subtle at the same time. Fox Searchlight has put together a pretty good streak of intelligent low-budget movies lately, and this is another notch in their belts. How good is it? Let me put it this way: I know the resulting picture wouldn't be any good, but I want a sequel anyway!