Let's face it -- the Brits know how to do a few things better than us Yanks: drink tea, print tabloids and produce compelling TV shows come to mind.  "Ultraviolet" falls into the last category, and for those of you who don't mind blending genres, this show is well worth the price of admission.
"Ultraviolet" is part mystery, part sci-fi thriller and part horror show mixed into one story spread over six episodes.  The main character, Michael (played by Jack Davenport, also of "Coupling" fame), is a London police detective leading a fairly normal life in the beginning of the Episode One.  When his partner Jack disappears on the night before Jack's wedding, however, Michael investigates and quickly becomes possessed of a knowledge that few others have: the world is infested by a small but active vampire colony.  Interestingly, the word "vampire" is never used in the series; "leech" is apparently the preferred term.  However, these leeches suck blood from their victims' necks, have superhuman strength, cannot be recorded by any modern technology, can be killed by exposure to sunlight, and will live forever if not destroyed.  In other words, if it quacks like a duck... While continuing his investigation into Jack's disappearance, Michael is reluctantly recruited into a special police/paramilitary unit whose sole function is to neutralize the leeches and keep humanity safe from enslavement and/or extermination.
I'm not going to provide an episode guide; other reviewers below have done that.  Instead, I'm going to tell you why you should watch this show.  First,  Writer/Director Joe Ahearne does a masterful job of buliding suspense.  The action is seen through Michael's eyes for the most part, and Ahearne uses the classic "less is more" style to make this show really creepy.  For example, you hardly ever see the leeches; instead, you see the effects on the people with whom the leeches have had contact.  It creates a very tense atmosphere of "they're out there somewhere, we just don't know where."  (See the movie "Alien" if you don't know what I'm talking about.)  Further, Michael's new colleagues are almost as threatening as the leeches. It is several episodes before Michael learns much about them and even then they are so maniacal about doing their job, you never quite get to a spot where you completely trust them.  The viewer knows, as does Michael, that Michael would be shot down immediately if he ever ever becomes a leech, bonds of loyalty or friendship (such as they are) notwithstanding.
Second, the cinematography is excellent.  Much like early seasons of the "X-Files", most of the scenes in "Ultraviolet" are shot either in very low light or at night, setting a dark mood for the whole series.  I won't ruin it for you, but there is a scene in Episode Five (Terra Incognita) involving one of Michael's colleagues being trapped inside a warehouse with several leech coffins that are time-coded to open right at sundown.  Michael and the cavalry are ten minutes away; the coffins are set to open in four minutes.  The sun sets in the blood red sky as this seconds tick off and.... well, as another reviewer says, this might be the best scene in the whole series.
Third, and although there is plenty of action, the characters develop more through good dialogue than through good marksmanship.  It's really hard to find a show that is as well written as this one, where what the characters say has real meaning to the story, as opposed to just being filler material until the next chase scene.  It is so well done, in fact, that you will be sorely disappointed when the end of Episode Six rolls around because you really want to know what happens next to all of these people.  You feel cheated, like there should be more.  And that, my friends, is the mark of a good TV show.  
So go ahead and hit that 1-click ordering button; you'll be glad you did.