This is the last film of the Heisei line of Godzilla films, and is awesome as such. While it pales in comparison to the original "Gojira" and 1999's "Gamera 3," it is certainly one of my favorite Godzilla movies. In this movie, a burning mad (literall) Godzilla arrives at, and destroys, Hong Kong (not Japan, for the first time in the Heisei series), while Akira Ifukube's awesome music plays in the background. From the opening sequences alone (including the title sequence), you know that you are in for something different. The next scenes until the arrival of Jr. in Tokyo follows the story of where Godzilla will strike next, what happened to Little Godzilla from the last two movies, and what is up with the giant red crab-like creatures attacking Tokyo. When the crabs converge into one giant creature, Godzilla Jr. arrives in Tokyo and the two fight. Jr. is badly wounded, but he manages to (seemingly) kill Destroyer. Then, Godzilla arrives and communicates with his son until Destroyer is reborn in an awesome scene. Destroyer then grabs his first foe (Jr.) and proceeds to drop him from hundreds of meters up onto a building, mortally wounding him. Godzilla mourns the death of his son, until Destroyer attacks him from behind, laughing at Godzilla's sadness (making Destroyer the only Godzilla, if any monster, foe that you truly start to hate). After this, an epic battle takes place that isn't just a beam war like the previous few movies were. Finally, Godzilla hits 1200 degrees and dies as Destroyer is finally killed by a freezer attack. Ifukube's haunting and powerful music along with a silence of all other noise creates a powerfully sad scene. However, through the radioactive fog after the meltdown, we suddenly see the silhouette of Godzilla Jr. in his final form, and then the movie ends. My only complaint about the movie itself are the crab vs. police scenes that are obviously a rip-off of similar scenes from "Alien." Other than this, the movie is good, with passable SFX (except for several crab sequences). My biggest complaint about this video release is that it cuts off the end credits (in the original movie, it shows more scenes from "Gojira" and then scenes from all the Heisei movies while playing to another Ifukube masterpeice). Other than this, the movie is great. I highly recommend it.