Firstly, those who have complained about the aspect ratio are partially correct.  This film was drawn in 4:3 BUT it was shown in widescreen when it was exhibited to the public upon its initial release.  While it is true that some of the material is missing primarily from the top of the cell, the film was drawn so that that area could be missed.  I must give credit to Disney for delving into their own history and discovering how each film was exhibited.  Take a look at the recent reissue of The Fox and the Hound to prove this point.  They could have cropped that film into widescreen but did not because it was shown in 4:3 originally.

As to the transfer, it is quite good and much improved over the Gold Collection release.  The colors are crisper and there are less artifacts that can be seen.

I must admit that I enjoy Disney's Robin Hood quite a bit.  It's not the best film in the Disney stable but it is enjoyable and has its charms.  Roger Miller's music adds a nice touch and gives this English tale a bit of an infusion of Southern and Western charm (Western charm is also added by Andy Devine and Pat Buttram - two men associated with the old westerns).  This, combined with the use of animals in all roles, makes Disney's Robin Hood a unique twist on the tale and one of the more enjoyable films.  It may be Disney's best animated feature to be released in the 1970s, a decade that was Disney's worst for animation as the company was trying to find itself after Walt's death.

There's one notable complaint in the reviews here about the ending, a take I have to disagree with.  This DVD does provide what the alternate ending would have been and, frankly, the way it ends as is is superior.  We don't merely hear the rooster tell us how the tale ends; we see Prince John, the Sheriff of Nottingham, and Sir Hiss all working the quarry as prisoner while Good King Richard waves farewell to the newly married Marian and Robin.  The ending works quite well for the film and leaves Richard's return to our imagination.  It works well in how the movie is envision with a minstrel telling us the story.

The Extras on this DVD are a bit disappointing.  I'm not much into the games nor do I care for the sing-a-longs.  Kids will get a kick out of both.  What I would have loved to have included would be a documentary detailing the making of Robin Hood.  This was the first film that was greenlighted after Walt Disney's death.  It'd be interesting to hear about how everyone at the studios handled this feature and approached it.  After all, Robin Hood was the film that made or broke Disney after Walt's death.  It was a success and we continued to get Disney features, but I'm sure the stress of putting this film together was enormous.

The movie is well worth the price, especially if you love Disney films as I do.  The extras are disappointing but that goes for all copies of Robin Hood right now.  This one is a worthwhile purchase.