Watching the first airing of "Sidetracked" on PBS in May during its run on Masterpiece Mystery!, I was initially in it for the talent Kenneth Branagh would bring to the small screen, but I hadn't realized that I was in for something much, much bigger. Adapted rather faithfully from three of Swedish novelist Henning Mankell's Wallander novels, the series retains its Swedish setting and its unique atmosphere and adds a bit of a British touch.

The main draw of the Wallander series, whether it be the book or the show, is the fact that the events unfold around the titular detective, Kurt Wallander, as opposed to him being the tool that solves the crime. We see the world very much through his bloodshot, weary eyes, and as such we get a sense of empathy for both him and the characters that experience the loss caused by the crimes that are encountered in each exploit. Branagh underplays the role so expertly, providing the perfect amount of emotional gravitas that's so desperately needed for a character of this proportion. The role of the supporting cast is small, at best; the only other characters we see regularly throughout the show are his co-workers in the Ystad police department and, as such, they do not stand out as strikingly as Branagh's Wallander, but they coexist perfectly well and neither transcend the show nor hinder it.

After watching the series, I managed to get my hands on a copy of the novel of the same name that the episode "Firewall" was based on, and reading it after watching the episode was like entering an expanded version of the story. Most of the events and names are identical, but some things are moved around or cut to fit the 80-odd-minutes constraint. I have to hand it to whomever gave the novel the television treatment though; the things that were omitted from the episode were probably only the most extraneous, and some things were even added in and worked with aplomb in context, especially pertaining to the technological advancement seen in the decade span from when the book was written and when it saw its way to the BBC.

This Wallander adaptation is a must for both fans uninitiated with the character and those who have already familiarized themselves with him. The setting, filmed entirely on location in Ystad of Skåne county, Sweden, provides such a stark, idyllic contrast to the grisly slayings featured in each episode, and the direction and photography is unparalleled by anything you've seen on any American crime procedural. If anything, watch it for Wallander himself. The definition of an "everyman" in television and film is redefined by Mankell's original design of the character, the creative muscle behind the show, and last but farthest from least, Branagh's fragile, emotional and brilliant interpretation of Inspector Kurt Wallander.