I live in Australia and recently bought the Limited Edition Complete Season 1 of Wagon Train in a metal embossed tin and have just received it and had the chance to test each of the 10 DVDs that comprise the set.

Firstly, I love the embossed metal tin and it's design but hate the thick cardboard sleeves arranged like the pages of a book that fits inside the tin - each of the 10 discs has it's own sleeve that you slot it into.  Well, the slots are tight and you cant help but have to handle the playable side of each disc as you try to manoeuver it in and out of it's tight slot - both these actions clearly mean the surface of each disc is coming into direct contact with the hard cardboard surfaces of the tight sleeve the disc resides in obviously allowing the playable surface to gather scratches - in fact at least one of the discs had light scratches on it (played ok though) when I first opened the package!  This method of holding the discs must not be used again - please listen to us customers Timeless Media Group (and Amazon!)

My other problem is that disc 6 of the 10 in the set just refuses to play in any of my DVD players (the other 9 all play fine) which are multi zoned (Region Free) - it's not illegal in Australia to own these and besides, the DVDs I am buying from the UK (Region 2) and USA (Region 1) are not available here in Australia - so a region free DVD player allows people like me to be able to buy the DVDs I want from overseas. The disc that wont play pops up a message on my TV screen saying "Incompatible disc region code" or words to that effect but I have no idea why it does this given that the other 9 discs all play just fine.

In regard to the show itself, I love it and there's generally 4 digitally remastered and restored episodes (each almost an hour long) on each disc - so over 10 discs there's a hell of a lot of watching to do.  There are famous Hollywood names in many episodes as guest stars and I really enjoy seeing these people when they were (mostly) younger.  The acting is very good too.  The picture quality of season one is not quite as good as season 2 but it is quite acceptable though - the sound is sometimes a bit louder or softer between episodes on the same disc and you need to either turn your sound up or down a bit (I haven't noticed this on season 2).

I would love to give this 5 out of 5 stars but I cant for the 2 reasons outlined above.  Amazon were very good in refunding me $10 for the disc 6 failure to play as they had no replacement stock to offer me - I obviously would have preferred a replacement disc as Amazon don't seem to want customers outside the USA to be returning defective discs - they merely issue a replacement where they can and say keep the original set or pass them on to a friend.