The considerable acting skills of Sanaa Lathan, Blair Underwood, and Simon Baker saved this movie from being a total and complete failure. The end result was that I enjoyed the movie. Not enough to buy it, but certainly enough to rent the DVD.

Before I saw it, I assumed [as everyone should know by now] that the white guy would end up with the girl ... and I was not mistaken. The writer, by the way, is a sister, Kriss Turner. But, even so, I figured she would concede that if she wanted her script to sell, she had better play up to the White Male ego.

Now, since so many of you reading this are now thinking "another black guy playing the race card" I challenge you to drop back two paces, take a deep breath, and consider all of Sanaa Lathan's work.

I am an unabashed Sanaa Lathan fan. I make a point of checking out any thing I find out she is in. So, I have seen, and own in my private DVD collection,  "Brothers", "Love and Basketball", "Disappearing Acts", "Best Man", and "Brown Sugar". So, I think back over all of her movies and I find that all of her male romantic interests in all these movies were black and had some serious character flaws [remember Wesley Snipes' character in "Disappearing Acts"]. The one exception to the rule, up until now, was "Brothers" and only because the movie ended before anything serious could develop between Sanaa's and Omar Epps' characters.

So, now, we have a change up. In this her latest movie aptly named "Something New", her love interest is now white and is now as near to perfect as a writer can make a character without boring the audience to tears. Kudos to Simon Baker for figuring out how to take a boring weak white male lead character and mold him into this incredibly strong yet sensitive person who can be beat up throughout the entire movie by any and all of the other black characters and still come out at the end not looking like a big wussy.

In "Something New", in the scene where Sanaa dumps Blair Underwood, she admits, tearfully, that Blair's character is perfect. After all, he is wealthy, good-looking, upwardly mobile,  and, well, he is Blair Underwood. Still, she just can't help herself. She just has to dump the brother and run back into the arms of the White Guy. The same guy who proved, in a couple of earlier scenes, that not only does he not get the pain a black professional goes through dealing with White Supremacy, he thinks it is all just an illusion in our heads!

Groan!!!!!