Readers who have read my Amazon DVD review on F.I.S.T. (1978) and other films will have noticed my interest in the sharp contrast between actors Robert De Niro (and director Martin Scorsese and writer/director Paul Schrader) on the one hand and Sylvester Stallone on the other hand in their portrayal of similar themes - Vietnam war veterans, boxing champs - and labour union corruption.  In 1978 we not only see the release of two movies on Vietnam that share the Oscar awards among them (The Deer Hunter and Coming Home) but also the release of two movies on labour union corruption that resemble the divergence of viewpoints on the American dream for workers.  In Rocky (1976), Stallone's character is asked: "Do you believe in the American dream?" and a hesitant Rocky finally wins the heavyweight bout - the American dream came true not only for this fairy-tale character but also for a struggling Stallone as he received Oscar nominations for Best Actor and Best Original Screenplay.  But the film critic Schrader did not even receive an Oscar nomination in the same screenplay category for the critically acclaimed Taxi Driver (1976) that (in contrast with the Oscar Winner for Best Picture, Rocky) did not receive a single Academy Award.  Taxi Driver represented the polar opposite of Rocky - De Niro embodying the American nightmare.

Two years later, scriptwriters Stallone and Schrader once again presented completely different views on blue-collar anti-heroes.  After Stallone rewrote Joe Ezsterhas's script, F.I.S.T. leader Johnny Kovac came closer to resembling icon Walter Reuther than thuggish Jimmy Hoffa (on whom Ezsterhas based his original script).  If Stallone had his way with director Norman Jewison, Kovac would not have suffered the ignoble end that finally prevailed.  But Schrader's Blue Collar comes perhaps closer to what Ezsterhas originally envisioned for his uneconomically long and commercially unfeasible movie script: a poignant tale of the tragedy of union labour corruption.