Roger Ebert gave this movie three (out of four) stars, primarily because MMA champ Gina Carano appears to use her MMA skills in the fight scenes and because of the film's all-star cast. Note: Ebert did not remark on Carano's acting skills or lack thereof. According to Ebert's users, the movie deserved 2.5 stars.

The first person to comment on this movie, in Amazon, gave it 5 stars and said it was non-stop action. Whoever wrote that garbage had to have been high. In the first hour of the movie, there were a total of four fight scenes; all of which totaled about 5 minutes of combined time. One of the fight scenes is only about 20 seconds, which came after a 1-minute chase scene in which Carano's character is running after "Bad Guy #1" through the streets of Barcelona. The majority of the first hour, you're left watching boring dialogues with very few words. Carano (Mallory Kane) actually does very little speaking the entire film - primarily because she's not an actress; she's an MMA competitor.

Ebert was also correct, when he criticized the director of the movie, Steven Soderbergh. This was Soderbergh's first attempt at an action thriller, and hopefully, it will be his last. The script was horrible, the plot was hideously cliche, and even the fight scenes were very obviously and very poorly choreographed. If you're hoping for a "Bourne" or "Salt" style action sequence, you won't find it here. In some fight scenes, you can actually watch the actors manipulate each other into the next move... like in one scene, you can picture hearing Carano say "Pick your arm up, so I can get you in a sleeper hold." LOL.

The funniest aspect of the whole thing was that Carano's character gets punched and kicked in the face multiple times, and at one point, she actually gets a cup of hot coffee thrown in her face, and she never shows even as much as an abrasion. No blood, no bruising... not even some redness or blistering caused by the hot coffee. I found this to be pretty hilariously stupid. I don't know how anyone can get punched in the face five or six times and not even show a bruise. This gave the movie a professional wrestling feel... like "It's obviously not real, because she doesn't even have a bloody lip."

...Not that I expect movies to be real, but I do expect them to be realistic, or as realistic as possible, if they're not animated. Even fist fights in the old TV show "Gunsmoke" showed people with bloody lips and noses, so it seems pretty lame when a movie is made today, in which nobody ever gets so much as a visible blemish on their face.

If you're an MMA fan, or if you're a Carano fan, you will probably love this movie, because it lacks the choreography movie goers enjoy in good Hollywood action movies.

But, if you're an action/thriller/espionage fan with a sweet tooth for well-made fight scenes and conspiracy theories, save your money for the next Bourne movie, because everything about this movie blows in every way from start to the bitter end.