This review deals mainly with the story "Earthshock" and not the extras or technical aspects of the DVD.  All the Doctor Who DVDs have great extras and are a large improvement over the earlier VHS versions.

"Earthshock" is one of my favorite Doctor Who stories of the Peter Davison era.  There are many reasons for this.  All Cybermen stories have a since of wonder, mystery, and terror all at the same time.  While not moving the history or culture of the Cyber race forward much, the story lives up to the wonder, mystery, and terror aspect.  From a costume standpoint the Cyber suits have been updated since "Revenge Of The Cybermen" and they look 100% better.  The story is a fast paced (by classic Doctor Who standards) mystery/adventure story that hooks you and doesn't let go.

The incorporation of the storyline explaining that the Cybermen are responsible for the extinction of the dinosaurs is pure brilliance!

However, the greatest thing about "Earthshock" is the character development.  This is perhaps the best character development story in all of classic Doctor Who history.  This story begins with an arguement between the Doctor and Adric about returning to E-space.  During the course of the story the Doctor and Adrec make up and show their deep respect and friendship for each other in the process.  During the arguement Nyssa works to console Adrec and Tegan works to bring the Doctor around.  The whole Tardis family swings into action to mend emotional fences.  This seemingly simple storyline plays out so well that the audience is able to empathize and invest in the characters in a way that has never happenned before or since in the classic Doctor Who series.  Even better is the fact that all this character development takes place in the midst of an extremely compelling and action filled story.  The crown jewel of this episode is the death of Adrec at the end.  After we are taken down the path of learning to care about the Tardis family Adrec's death is even more devastating than it would have been at the end of any other Who adventure.