"Stage Beauty" suffered unfairly from having been released in the wake of "Shakespeare in Love." The earlier film had already won the Best Picture Oscar, and suffered a critical and public backlash because it beat out the more deeply admired "Saving Private Ryan." So no one was in the mood for another gender-bending romantic comedy set in the theater world of Merrie Olde England. "Stage Beauty" even shared some cast members in common with "Shakespeare in Love" (Tom Wilkinson, Rupert Everett) and lacked the imprimatur of a screenplay co-written by Tom Stoppard. All this is background for saying that "Stage Beauty" was unfairly ignored on its first release, because it's every bit as elegant, funny and engrossing as "Shakespeare in Love," and more poignant and profound in the bargain. Director Richard Eyre and screenwriter Jeffrey Hatcher create a magical fiction based on the true-life story of Edward Kynaston, an actor celebrated for playing female leads on the Restoration stage, who suddenly found himself out of a job when King Charles II decreed that women, not men, should play women's roles. History tells us that Kynaston soon switched to men's roles and regained his stardom; "Stage Beauty" contrives to tell us how he accomplished this, and the difficulties he met along the way. As played by Billy Crudup, Kynaston is insufferably arrogant--particularly toward women, whom he feels he knows far better than they do themselves--but his arrogance hides a deeper insecurity about his identity, sexual and otherwise, and his place in the world. Of course the King's decree shatters his world, and it's up to Maria (Claire Danes)--his once-mocked dresser, now a major star--to help him find his way back. Besides having many witty and thoughtful things to say about gender roles in theater and society, "Stage Beauty" presents a believable scenario for the beginnings of naturalistic acting on the stage--once men and women were free to portray themselves, there was far less need for posturing. The ensemble cast of "Stage Beauty" is at least as good as that of "Shakespeare in Love," and the leads are better. I had never paid much attention to Billy Crudup before this film; after seeing it, I'd have to say he's one of the most underrated actors around, superbly skilled in voice and gesture, and capable of profound depths of feeling as well as witty banter. He's matched fully by Claire Danes, a radiantly beautiful actress of fire and delicacy. Rupert Everett--a master at playing fatuous, self-involved noblemen--is a stitch as Charles II, and Tom Wilkinson is his usual excellent self as Kynaston and Maria's boss in their acting company. Such admirable emissaries from British rep as Edward Fox, Ben Chaplin, Richard Griffiths and Fenella Woolgar also shine in smaller roles. "Stage Beauty" takes considerable liberties with history--for example, Nell Gwyn, a major character in the story, would have been only about 10 years old at the time "Stage Beauty" took place. But that shouldn't matter to anyone who enjoys a romantic historical romp, particularly when it's as masterfully done as "Stage Beauty."