Finally, a gay film in which the lead roles are played by gay actors! Neither of the actors try too hard, which makes all the difference in the scenes where they're sexual. Contrast this with "Eden", a marvellous film yet with awkward sex scenes.

Where the film started to unravel for me was how the four main characters were portrayed - in broad brushstrokes, each a stereotype which is all too familiar. Adam - a Jewish nerd with a bad self-image; Steve - a shrink with control issues which he can't/won't resolve; Rhonda - a bad stand-up comic with food/sex issues; Michael - a sloppy straight man who can't filter his thoughts. The premise seems to be that opposites attract, and that all's well that ends well.

Adam's parents and sister are way over the top sufferers, yet accepting their bad luck with equanimity (Julie Hagerty is worth watching in a ridiculous neck brace!). Steve's parents are Texan Christians who never will accept him, yet show up for a visit in New York and also at the end of the film. The message - Jews are liberal lefties, Christians are rigid rabid conservatives...

At the end the two main characters get married - legally I presume - in the state of New York in a sort of New Age/Jewish ritual. The two subsidiary characters also end up together. The only character who ends up moving in a positive direction is Craig Chester's Adam, who at one point says in effect that though he's damaged goods, he expects to be accepted as he is. However, he is the stereotypical Jewish sexless nerd, out of touch with his body and afraid to assert himself. At the end of the film, Malcolm Gets' Steve still has "clean-o-mania" and still expresses shame over his need to excrete (after a horrible incident at the start of the film). Similarly, Parker Posey's Rhonda equates appetite for food and sex, and expects that her gender entitles her to power over other men. Chris Kattan's Michael is a straight slob who never learned the social skill of filtering his thoughts before starting to speak to someone.

Chester and Gets interact naturally throughout; Posey and Kattan are a bit under-utilised as their characters are rather static. The choreography, costumes and lighting are excellent. The dialogue of reminds me of "Will and Grace" except that this film did move on a bit faster than the series did!