I have mixed feelings about this movie. I had very high expectations knowing the Dalai Lama's connections with Hollywood (for example, Richard Gere, Steven Seagall). He has visited and talked with Hollywood's brass  many times and I figured many people in Hollywood would be intimately  familiar with this fascinating man's life starting with his very birth.  Also, since the name of the movie is: "Kundun", not "The  Plight of Tibet", I figured this movie would be about His Holiness,  the 14th Dalai Lama. 
I have read a few chapters from a book which  intimately described the beginnings of the Dalai Lama's life and I own  several video cassettes of him and his teachings. The director of this film  (Scorsese) has little faith in this kid's ability to act in my opinion.  Take the scene where the Chinese send their representative to negotiate  Tibet's "Sovereignty". There are 3 such meetings in the film.  During the first 2 meetings, Kundun is sitting on the throne, and a monk  next to him does all the talking. Kundun didn't say a word. Not one single  solitary word! Here is the "Spiritual Leader" of this country and  he cannot say one word in defense of his country?  In real life, since he  was only a young teen at the time, he probably didn't have much input or  say because he wasn't very experienced in those matters. But why even have  him in the scene if he's not going to say anything?  It's only in the 3rd  and last meeting when Kundun is alone with a Chinese Representative does he  finally say some words, and from my vague recollection, it was a few weak  cliched lines. 
Scorsese could have done a much better job in the  beginning of the film when the monks initially found the Dalai Lama's  reincarnation. Here is a 4 year old kid, who is a perfectly normal little  child living in a small village on the outskirts of Tibet. His mother has  had dreams of spirits talking with her although everything else seems  perfectly ordinary. A group of monks and former servants who have  deliberately disguised themselves have set out on this house to test the  Dalai Lama. They bring artifacts from the previous Dalai Lama's life and  ask him to identify which ones were his. Of course he picks the right ones.  He is also asked to identify the monks who were present before him. This is  not an easy thing to do! These monks are in disguise! And this kid has  never even seen them in his life! Of course the kid remembers all of them  and knows exactly who they are. If this happened in America, this would be  front page news. But Scorsese does a poor job of covering this aspect of  his life. All that was shown in the film was the kid picking out artifacts  of the previous Dalai Lama's. No dreams are shown, the viewers are not  aware that the monks who have come to test him are actually in disguise,  and Kundun is not required to identify the monks. I don't think this is  beyond the comprehension of the viewers. People aren't *that* dumb! They  can recognize incredible feats of spirituality when they see it.  
Incidentally, the Dalai Lama was constantly tested upon his arrival in  the Potala Palace and he was given extensive tests to prove he was indeed  the reincarnation of the 13th Dalai Lama on almost a daily basis (even  years after it had been established he was indeed the 13th reincarnation)  but this was not covered in the film.
None of this is was really that  important though. I really wanted to see the Dalai Lama, the future Nobel  Peace Prize Winner. The Spiritual Leader of Tibet. I wanted to get to know  HIM. I wanted to know what he liked, what he didn't like, was he a brash  kid or a rebellious teenager? It would have been nice if they had gotten  some stories from the monks about any special relationships he had with  other people. I wanted to learn something about him that I didn't know  before. There was nothing in the film about this.
Scorsese did an  outstanding job in using real monks during Buddhist Ceremonies. I'm  Buddhist and I can appreciate what goes on here. I knew he was using real  monks because I have participated in many ceremonies myself. 
Scorsese  also does an outstanding job depicting the Chinese cruelty that went on  during the invasion of Tibet in which millions of people were killed. I've  seen some of the real life footage that was smuggled out of Tibet and can  tell you that the sheer terror depicted in the movie was no fluke. The  Chinese were savages and beat monks to a pulp, they showed no mercy  whatsoever. It makes me sad because when I see the Potala Palace and all  the people who visit there on a yearly basis, they think, "Oh how  cool! How nice! This is the place where the Dalai Lama used to live!"  But they don't realize the Dalai Lama *SHOULD* still be living there. It's  still HIS home! They have no more business being there than the Chinese do.  It's a holy, sacred place.
That's why this film is such a let down for me  is that Scorsese went through such tremendous pains to make things as  realistic as possible. The Dalai Lama is a very down to earth man and is  fairly accessible. There have been many books written about him. It would  not have been difficult at all to get detailed information on his life.  Scorsese could have made the film infinitely more interesting if he had  covered perhaps a special relationship the Dalai Lama had or something  funny happening to him rather than portraying the kid as a nerd, tinkering  with clocks and radios all the time.