I dont use big words and poetry to write reviews so mine should be helpful. Doomsday Gun is a good movie for an HBO original. It cuts corners and leaves you wanting more explanation of the story but its original and well-acted. The book the read like stereo instructions so Id recommend this instead. The actual true-life events were probably somewhat of a boring news story so I guess this is as best a true-life movie can be made. It really doesnt capture Gerald Bull very well, I mean not like I knew the guy personally but the movie doesnt give you a glimpse into how he came to do what he does, which is NOT make weapons its calibrate and redesign weapons technology. The big gun was a childhood fantasy of his that manifested itself into guns that launch satellites or these radar things that they used to use for surveillance or weather patterns...like Doppler. Anyway his work in ballistics merged with that and became a quest to build a cannon that could "hit the moon" as he said. Hussain was such an idiot cause this thing was worthless, I think Alan Arkin even comments in the movie that he is "bankrupting his own country"...which is what he did, like when he bought this big clunky gun. It leaves a huge part out of the actual story though, because what the Iraqui army originally hired Bull for was calibration on their missle program, this gun thing just kind of became a side project that attracted too much attention. The director or writer of this movie couldve made more of an effort to bring that out, then the movie would make more sense to someone who didnt read the agonizingly boring book. The movie does a good job though of making the gun seem like an incredibly dangerous weapon, and everyone seems to be afraid of it. Tony Goldwyn fits into the movie like a square peg in a round hole, but otherwise the characters were well placed and well acted. Dialogue was good, no overly-dramatic moments I mean the movie kind of moves along like a documentary but its got some decent special effects when the gun fires and the car bomb goes off and what not. I liked it, thats all I can say. And Im damn picky, especially when it comes to HBO originals cause I hate about 87% of the stuff they make.