David Mamet's (State and Main, The Spanish Prisoner) Heist is that rarest of films, a caper flick where the character's motivations and movements are devoted as much to fooling the audience as they are to misdirecting each other.
  It is a film where the script explodes with intelligence, wit and timing. Characters sling verbal daggers at one another while the performers relish each perfectly crafted line. A Mamet screenplay is not just words, it is an all encompassing experience. The dialogue in Heist isn't just beautiful or original, it ranks among the coolest, slickest, hippest and best crafted dialogue of all time. It is some of Mamet's best work, which means a lot if you consider his repertoire. Every utterance is a treat delicately wrapped for the audience in a packaging of perfect plotting and sharp storytelling. The actors know this, and it shows, you'll never see a Mamet film where the cast doesn't look happy to be there. The performances in this film are a shared triumph; actors deliver their lines with a self-assured pride, like they're honored to be speaking such thoughtfully crafted language.
  Gene Hackman is his usual consummate self, delivering a powerhouse performance that rivals Steve Bucemi's in Ghost World for the years best, both actors show an intrinsic understanding of who their characters are, both are transcendent in their delivery, and both give performances that are more than the sum of their dialogue (which is a REAL compliment for Hackman). Delroy Lindo does a fine job with his role, his delivery is crisp, clean, and strikes just the right notes. Danny DeVito is absolutely mesmerizing, a perfect example menace and villainy, he is strong, he is brilliant, and this is his best work. Ricky Jay puts himself in the running for a best supporting Oscar with a performance that showcases just why he is a Mamet regular. Other critics have called Rebecca Pidgeon distant before, but I tend to disagree, her work here is professional and strikes the right pitch, but she just doesn't stand out amongst such a superb cast. As good as these people are individually, they are all the more impressive collectively; these people have great chemistry, and their work here is a cooperative effort of unparalleled skill and grace.
  After seven films, Mamet is finally coming into his own visually, his last few films all share the same stylistic calling cards, he is well on his way to creating his own definitive look. His direction is yet another thing to add to the list of perfection that is this movie. Camerawork enhances the story without overwhelming it. His attention to detail both in scripting and direction are vital to his being able to take so many story strands and weave a web of them without destroying his narrative.
  Heist is an endlessly clever film; it takes smart people and puts them in smartly crafted situations. It is a film that has a brain and is unafraid to use it, that trusts us to use our own noggins to effectively figure it out.