Leslie Gourse, jazz writer and critic, in her excellent 1984 book, "Louis' Children", wrote of Louis Armstrong's influence on the jazz and popular singers who came after him, from Bing Crosby and Peggy Lee, from Billie Holiday to Frank Sinatra and Mel Torme, from Cab Calloway to Al Jarreau.  They called him "Pops."

Gosphel and blues singers begat Louis Armstrong, who became the first jazz singer to sing the way he played his horn.  But his influence extended beyond that to R&B and R&R as well, whether their practitioners and fans realize it or not.  The blues descended in direct lineage through jazz to R&B and R&R.  Chuck Berry's influence on rock music was comparable to Armstrong's on jazz and pop music.

The first time I heard Chuck Berry was in 1955, when my uncle, a WWII vet, brought a copy of Chuck's recording of "Maybellene" on a 45 rpm disc to our house to play on my new Hi-Fi player.  I liked it, but I didn't become a fan until many years later.  At the time, I was more interested in jazz and classical music.

I have seen "Hail, Hail Rock & Roll" on TV several times and loved it.  Jerry Lee Lewis was right.  Chuck Berry, not Elvis, is the King of R&R.  Elvis, as a musician, was just not in the same class as Chuck.  Chuck wrote wonderful songs, which, as John Lennon says on the DVD, "have incredible meter to the lyrics."

He was, by far, the best performer of his own music, which can't be said for most song writers.  No one else can deliver his songs so convincingly.  Julian Lennon's awful performance of "Johnny B. Goode" is a case in point, and is also the biggest disappointment on the DVD.

Berry's stage personna, his facial expressions, and the famous Berry "duck walk" were so much a part of his image, that hearing him on a recording just doesn't give you the real Chuck Berry.  He is best appreciated on video or in person, where you get the whole wonderful package.

One of my favorite places on the DVD is where Chuck sings the beautiful blues ballad, "A Cottage for Sale."  It is a great song, and Chuck sings it beautifully.  He was a man of many talents.  A man of great musical ability, and an artist in the true sense of that much mis-applied and overused word.  The word, as applied today, means anyone who makes a recording.

On October 18, 2006, Chuck Berry will be 80 years old.  Its hard to think of him as an old man, but I was present at the creation, so to speak, with "Maybellene."  Chuck Berry is an original, and a unique artist.

Thanks for a wonderful life, Chuck.