I hated this movie the first time I saw it.  However, I couldn't get it out of my head, and watched two years later, and got past what made me hate it.
I like the acting.  Schwarzenegger is perfect as a Terminator with minimal personality and lines.  He is menacing and does not justify his actions at all.  He just DOES.  Hamilton is very good in her role, and Biehn is, as always, excellent.
The story is original (for Hollywood).  It's also simple enough to fit in a movie.  A robot coming from the future to kill the mother of the man who successfully led the rebellion against a robot-controlled future is quite good.  It is believable (for those who can accept this type of story), and enough is left to the imagination that it isn't spoiled.  The sequels forgot this technique.
The special effects, of course, are generally poor.  We can tell Schwarzenegger is wearing a rubber mask when he does surgery on his face, and the robot is obviously animation.  However, watching the movie, I didn't care.  The story was good.
The violence is well done.  It is a very violent movie, but the violence is more imagined or suggested.  It is not shown very much.  I appreciate that very much.  The sequels glorified in blood and guts and random destruction.  This one is very focused.
The ending is depressing.  Although, obviously, Hamilton wins in the end and survives, the world is still facing nuclear destruction and near extermination of the human race.  That was why I hated the movie so much.  What I came to realize later is that the world is not a happy place.  We have happy moments, but what really keeps us going is knowing that no matter how dark the world is now or may become, it will get better.
This movie did not need a sequel, and its storyline actually outlaws sequels.  The two sequels are pale imitations.  They have far better special effects, but the stories and the action are totally unbelievable.  I never cared about anybody in the sequels and even started cooking while I watched them (always a bad sign since I hate cooking).
Buy this one.  Forget anyone ever made sequels.