A longtime fan of Al Pacino, I saw "Carlito's Way" when it first came out, in 1993. Even back then, it was apparent to me that I was watching something very special. Since then, I've literally seen the movie hundreds of times, and it remains one of my all-time favorite films.

The plot summary has been covered many times here, so I'll just stick to my comments. I think "Carlito's Way" is Brian DePalma's finest hour as a filmmaker. I could never understand the lukewarm critical response it received, though, ironically, time has been very kind to it. A lot of critics dismissed it as a second-rate follow-up to "Scarface"--which, interestingly, was also panned upon its release--but it possesses a depth and resonance that "Scarface" (or any of DePalma's other films, for that matter) just can't match.

Having grown up in Queens, New York, in the 1970s--and having run with a pretty tough crowd--I was stunned at how well DePalma captured the sights and sounds of the time. It was like being transported back 20 years. But, perhaps because the film was made two decades after it's supposed to take place, "Carlito's Way" hasn't aged at all. Like many great films, it has a timeless feel to it, because it avoids many of the filmmaking clich&eacute;s of the period in which it was made.

DePalma was already working from a very good foundation--Edwin Torres' two books on Carlito Brigante, "Carlito's Way" and "After Hours," are exceptionally well written--but he could've easily dropped the ball. Thankfully, he didn't. Though he and Pacino were both initially opposed to rehashing the success of "Scarface," they eventually decided to work together again. The combination was pure magic. Like many great actors, Pacino sometimes needs to be challenged, and DePalma challenged him. And he responded with one of the best performances of his legendary career. He brings an elegiac air to the character of reformed drug kingpin Carlito Brigante, which brings out a level of depth and emotional weight that the character of Tony Montana just didn't have. In fact, Carlito makes Tony seem woefully cartoonish and two-dimensional by comparison. As the film progresses, the psychic weight of Carlito's worsening dilemma is channeled perfectly by Pacino's every move and word. Despite Carlito's sordid past, you sympathize with him and his increasingly futile attempt to escape that past. The rapidly shrinking box that is Carlito's way out is communicated stunningly, by Pacino's acting, the excellent dialogue and cinematography, and, crucially, the music, which builds to a crescendo during the subway chase scene--one of the best chase scenes ever committed to film, in my opinion.

A movie is nothing without fine acting, and DePalma did a wonderful job of casting "Carlito's Way." The cast is, to a person, first-rate: John Leguizamo as up-and-coming gangster Benny Blanco; Penelope Ann Miller as Carlito's love interest, Gail; Luis Guzman as the traitorous Pachanga; and the ringer, Sean Penn, as Carlito's sleazy, out-of-control lawyer, David Kleinfeld.  Penn has had a lot of great roles in his career, but his turn as Kleinfeld is definitely one of his most memorable: over-the-top, but never less than eminently believable . . . and chillingly frightening.

As I said earlier, the years have been very kind to "Carlito's Way." It has aged better than any of DePalma's other films, and still looks and sounds as vital today as it did upon its release. That's a tough trick to pull off, but it's a testament to DePalma's filmmaking prowess and the actors' collective skill that, never once, do you catch yourself thinking about the age of the film. It's, quite simply, timeless--and, in this viewer's opinion, one of the best gangster films ever made. Whether history will judge it as such is debatable, but I believe that time will continue to enhance its reputation. It's a stunning cinematic achievement that will gain more and more supporters as the years go buy. I have absolutely no doubt about that.