Having read Vladimir Nabokov's novel "The Defence", on which this film is based, many years ago, I was fascinated to see how the director would rise to a very challenging task. I was not disappointed: although the story is interpreted in a noticeably different way, it becomes a moving and remarkably unsentimental study of a strange, uniquely talented man and the young woman who suddenly and inexplicably falls in love with him.

There are certain technical constraints. In the novel, Nabokov spends a lot of time depicting Luzhin's internal states of mind. The chess-related flights of fantasy have mostly been eliminated, but John Turturro - who gives a magnificent performance throughout - successfully conveys Luzhin's bumbling, inconsequential attempts to comply with the social requirements of the situations he encounters. Very occasionally, one of the actors reminds one of a historic chess player - at times Turturro, unshaven and distracted, has overtones of Tal, and Fabio Sartor's suave Turati combines Capablanca's elegance with flashes of Kasparov's self-assurance.

The chess specifics are, sadly, not very accurate. Even in the 1930s, the world championship was never decided by a single game played between the winners of two sections of a tournament! Real grandmasters do not usually slam their clocks hard enough to break them, nor are they often surprised by snap checkmates in the endgame (although it has happened). But these compromises can be excused as artistic license, with the aim of making the story more exciting for non-players.

Everything else is beautifully done - the period sets, clothes and manners, the interplay of sporting dedication with business ambition and even romance, burgeoning suddenly in the most unexpected place and time. I would have been amazed to be told that a rendering of "The Defence" would feature sex scenes, but they are perfectly woven into the logic of the story. There is a certain vagueness, too, that mirrors real life - at least as seen by Nabokov. Natalia's mother, who seems dead set against her beloved daughter having anything to do with "that" (as she calls Luzhin after their first meeting), rallies round in time for the wedding. And as for Valentinov, Luzhin's former manager who unceremoniously dumped him when he went through a bad patch, what does he really want now?

Like so many of Nabokov's tales, "The Luzhin Defence" hovers ambiguously on the border between everyday reality and fantasy. If you accept it on its own terms, though, it is an absorbing experience.