I recently pulled out my copy of this movie for a re-watch and was reminded all over again how well some movies age. This is one of those. While it is a Michael Crichton story, and most books don't do well being transitioned to film, this one did. Pared down, yet maintaining the tension and smoothing out the edges too much dialogue would create, this is one of the best transitions I've seen.

Westworld, Roman World and Medieval World make up the segments of a new type of grown up Disneyland called Delos. The story revolves around what happens in Delos when a glitch (modern day folks will recognize it as a computer virus) wreaks havoc on this machine driven utopia for humans. Our two main characters, wonderfully portrayed by James Brolin and Richard Benjamin, have chosen to visit Westworld for a good old fashioned gun-slinging adventure. One of them is fully immersed while the other still feels rather odd shooting people or having random sex even if they are robots. They look and act human within the context of their programming. They get a whole lot more gunslinging than they bargained for during this very bad vacation.

Yul Brynner, our main foe, is not singing about Siam in this movie either...he's a robot gunslinger and a bad dude. And he is also infected with the virus that makes them react aggressively against the humans who blissfully vacation there. He is stunning in this movie. For a robot that displays no emotion he does an excellent job of using microexpressions and posture to create a fully realized menacing enemy that never tires or sleeps.

The virus or glitch that ruins Delos isn't limited to West World and though the movie doesn't focus on it too extensively, the mayhem in Roman World and Medieval World is just as horrifying and the results very deadly. There are secondary characters that we intermittently follow in those other worlds that allow the watcher to see what happens, if briefly.

Now, I love a movie with a morality tale behind it and this one is chock full of them. It's also quite prescient in many respects. Today, almost 40 years after it was made, we are nearly immune to the pain of others. We are entertained by reality TV where people are in danger or deprived. We watch stand-offs on TV, eyes peeled for the shoot out or dramatic suicide (as just happened the other day on FOX). We watch endless replays of bombings and grainy footage of horrific happenings (like the man who ate the person's face recently). We are entertained by the horrible and increasingly seek more extreme methods of getting an adrenaline rush. At least a lot of us are.

In this future we've taken it to the ultimate level. Robots programmed well and realistic in looks are there for any fantasy. Roman orgy, medieval crusade or western shootout, it's all there for the taking. No more virtual killing in video games, this one the paying public gets to really act out but in perfect safety. That is, until a virus hits that makes the poor robots decide getting their faces blown off isn't so fun and they best fight back. Classic technology coming to bite you back tale. You gotta love that.

Yes, I'll admit there are some 1970s-isms in there in terms of fashion, styles and behavioral norms you'll have to look over. Some of the tech is hilarious when compared with today. My microwave has more complicated boards in it! But still, its a fun romp with a good tale to tell and I highly recommend it for those who like classic sci-fi, dystopian movies, near future movies and just plain 1970s movies.