I have put this DVD back on heavy rotation.  Every once in a while I just have to have a "hit" of the Cars!  I have been trying to think of adjectives to describe this performance.  I have my definite favorites--Take What You Want, You're All I've Got Tonight, Candy O--those are at the top.  I refer to Elliot on Take What You Want as Elliot Hendrix.  His playing is top-notch, daring and I can't help but think that if they had played this song, like they did on the DVD, at Live Aid--it would have garnered all sorts of praise.  But Live Aid pretty much sucked, as all Cars fans will remember. David, despite his state of "green-ness" played his drum kit with ease, although I noticed a few times between songs, it does appear he is about to fall off the stool!  Poor guy.  He was just being polite by drinking a dozen or so shot glasses of Schnapps.  The interview section is still quite painful to watch, even after all these years without Ben. Elliot and David do most of the talking, which is cool because I don't ever remember hearing David speak at all back in the day.  They all seem very friendly towards one another--with maybe an air of regret and sadness because of Ben's state of health.  The only annoying thing about the interview is Ric's lack of coming up with what he wanted to say--with several broken sentences, like he was kind of censoring himself as to what he wanted to say.  Aggg!!!  Just say it already!  Still it was nice to see him smile--don't know if I'd ever seen that the entire time the Cars were together!  Greg seemed very quiet but when he did speak, I couldn't help but smile-for some reason that guy always makes me laugh.  When he talks about hearing Just What I Needed for the first time, the camera pans out to all the guys and David has this funny look on his face, like he wants to laugh, then he shakes his head and grabs his drink and takes a sip, I think to keep from laughing out loud.  I believe something was edited out between the time that Greg was speaking and when he finished.  The German audience was very receptive, but very subdued.  If I were there, I can assure you I would have been jumping up and down during each number.  This is a MUST HAVE for any Cars fan out there.