Monster House tells the story of a group of friends who discover there's something more sinister about the creepy house across the street than just the man who lives there.  The house, it turns out, is alive, and willing to eat anything that crosses its path.  It's a simple story, with a couple neat twists, and far more heart than I was expecting.  It even got me a little teary eyed towards the ending.  To divulge any more, would be ruining it for others.

Unlike the motion capture in The Polar Express, which resulted in lifeless CGI versions of Tom Hanks, the directors went with a more cartoonish approach, resulting in characters that moved realistically, without looking alien.  The story was done in part by Rob Schrab, creator of one of my favorite comics, Scud: The Disposable Assassin.  And in the truest nature of 80's kids movies (think Monster Squad and Goonies) the movie doesn't pander to the audience, nor does it intend to, as you quickly discover when a character's death is thrown at you early in the movie.  It's rated PG for a reason.  Little kids under 6 will not be prepared for some honest scares, especially when amplified with the 3-D effects.  It even caught me by surprise on occasion.

This was my first experience with the 3-D, since I had no intention of seeing Chicken Little.  I have to say that if the technology works as well as it did with this film, I could easily see other 3-D animated films using this technology.  It was never showy, purposely throwing things at the audience, and instead added a depth to the film that surprised me.  It was a bit offsetting at first, but by the end of the film, I couldn't have imagined it any other way.  At one point, towards the end of the film, it almost looked live action.  Color me impressed.

I wasn't sure what to expect from Monster House, and having no expectations really paid off.  I was impressed from the first scene.  The kid behavior was captured perfectly, showing them to be both more open to the imagination than adults, and occasionally incredibly spazzy.  It was endearing.  The voice acting was all top notch, with the exception of Jon Heder being on screen.  Whenever he talked, all I could think of was Napoleon Dynamite.  But other than that, the film was spot on.  Of all the animated films in 2006, I'd have to see it easily takes the top spot.

Grab your child, cousin, nephew, or other movie geek friends and head out for a great little time.