Any Undertaker DVD is a great DVD. The selected matches show the 'deadly' side of the undertaker's character, e.g. Casket/Buried Alive/Hell in a Cell matches. However, I strongly believe that this DVD set should have included MORE matches that serve the gimmick/purpose of this 3 DVD set, such as:

vs. Giant Gonzales in a Rest in Peace Match Summerslam 1993: Match was not a classic but Taker feuded most of the year with Gonzalez. True! Taker carried the match, but it helped his gimmick in his early career.

vs. Yokozuna in a Casket Match Survivor Series 1994: the Tombstone DVD included Taker/Yoko's 1st Casket Match at Royal Rumble 1994 and left this one out. Yoko really sold his fear of caskets in this match.

vs.The Executoner AKA Terry Gordy in an Armageddon Rules Match In Your House: It's Time 1996: The match itself was not as good as his matches with Mankind, but the brawl here was good.

vs. Mankind in a Sledgehammer Match Raw 1998: Any Taker/Foley match is a deadly match. Enough said!.

vs. Kane in a Casket Match Raw 1998: This was after their match at Judgement Day 1998 & they destroyed the casket.

vs. Bigboss Man in a Hell in a Cell Match Wrestlemania 15 1999: Labeled as the worst HIAC, but the ending was shocking and deadly (ALL pun intended).

W/ Big Show vs. Rock N' Sock Connection in a Buried Alive Tag Match Smackdown! 1999: A Lost gem that's never included on DVD.

W/ Kane vs. DDP & Kanyon in a Steel Cage Match Summerslam 2001: Both WWE & WCW titles were on the line. WWE vs. WCW!

vs. RVD in a Hardcore Match Vengeance 2001: The Hardcore belt was on the line. Taker goes Hardcore.

vs. Jeff Hardy in a Ladder Match Raw 2002: Taker defended the Undisputed title in his 1st Ladder Match against the master of the ladder. Classic!

vs. Big Show in a Punjabi Prison Match Great American Bash 2006: Innovative match that should have been included in this DVD set.

vs. Batista, MVP, Big Daddy V, Finlay & the Great Khali in an Elimination Chamber Match: Taker's 1st EC Match. Excellent bout.