This is an absolutely classic war movie.  And as I said, it's the kind of movie they just don't make anymore -- dependent on dialogue, acting, suspense, and plot.  In other words, it's a great story, well told, and as such, can stand on its own merits.  Don't get me wrong; action, special effects, grand stunts, they're great, and they certainly have their place, but while they can make a good movie better, they can't make a poor movie good.  Today, filmmakers rely far too heavily on these things.  "Sink the Bismarck" is a movie which proves that a film can be great even when it lacks almost all of these things... IF the story is good.  Fortunately, this one is.  It's a war movie, with few battle scenes, almost no stunts, and special effects which, while adequate in their day, look less impressive today.  And despite this, it's still an absolutely first rate movie because of the quality of the story and the acting.  That's what separates it from most of today's movies.  Few films today can stand so firmly solely on their merits as good stories, well told.

Now having said all that, the film isn't perfect.  The biggest flaw is the misrepresentation of at least one of the characters.  A great injustice has been done to Admiral G&uuml;nther L&uuml;tjens.  He is depicted in this film as a rabid arch-nazi.  In reality, he was almost exactly the opposite.  He was the classic example of the old-style German officer, whose sense of duty to the state overcame his judgment and conscience, who followed orders and obeyed his leaders, despite deep personal misgivings and personal dislike of the regime.  Far from being an ardent ideological Nazi, the real L&uuml;tjens despised Hitler and the Nazis, refused to give the Nazi salute (sticking to the old naval salute), and protected Jews under his command.  Also, the real L&uuml;tjens was pessimistic about taking on the Royal Navy, unlike the portrayal in this film, where he appears almost contemptuous about the abilities of his British adversary.  Still, Karel Stepanek's performance as L&uuml;tjens is good enough, and charismatic enough to overcome most of this.

The only other flaws are minor -- cliches about the main character's son in harm's way, personal loss (spouse), and devotion to duty at the expense of warmth and humanity.  But these things are not overplayed, so they don't hurt much.

Despite the flaws, this is an absolutely first rate movie, and it's a great story about a tremendously dramatic historical event.  Kenneth More carries the film superbly.  The supporting players are all excellent.  Dana Wynter provides a strong female lead, and a romantic interest to the main character, who nevertheless isn't allowed to distract from the story.  And the movie has a great plot, superb pacing, and a dramatic, even poignant climax.  It belongs in any war movie collection.