When 1408 was first released into theaters, I had heard mixed reviews, not from critics, but from friends of mine who had managed to catch screenings of it before I did. Not that that was hard to do, mind you, because I rarely, if ever, went to see films in the theaters. I think in recent years the only film I was going to see in theaters was 30 Days of Night, but was unable to due to a stint in the hospital. Going back to the mixed reviews, a friend of mine, who was also a big fan of horror movies, told me it was awful, not worth the money, and like an idiot I listened to her.
However, for some reason that I can not explain, when the film was released on DVD, I had this strange compulsion to watch it. I noticed it was On Demand one day, and I called my mom up and asked her what she thought of the movie (her and my father had seen it at the drive in). She said that she thought it was 'ok'. However, with all due respect to my mom, every film in her eyes except The Dark Knight is 'ok', and it's even harder for a horror film to please her. Against the odds, I rented the film and watched it. However, the On Demand version was the directors cut, but I still loved it.
Well, you can imagine my surprise when I watched the theatrical version and the original ending came along. The things that really stuck out about this, though, was John Cusack's performance. It was incredible. I had never really been a fan of him before this- he had never really done horror films, and I tend to watch pretty much only horror. But he blew me away with this. The direction was strong, Samuel L was in it (which is always props to me), and it wasn't relying on blood and guts, like the Hostel or Saw franchises. I must admit it scared me that the film was rated PG-13, but for a PG-13 film, it got away with quite a few uses of the F word (when Cusack hurts his hand).
As for this DVD... I love it, I love the postcards it came with, and the very, VERY short making of's, and the fact that it has both versions of the film, but... It's kind of disappointing. Why couldn't they put both versions of the film on disc one and LOAD the second disc with extras and making of's, kind of like the Batman Begins DVD did? If you're looking for behind the scenes footage, you'll find, oh, I'm guessing... ten minutes worth? It's a good ten minutes, but it could have been much, much more.
Since I tend to read reviews on Amazon for information on the DVD extras and not the film itself, that is what is most crucial for me to reiterate in my review. This DVD is NOT a Collectors Edition, it is a 'spend more money for two versions of the film and ten minutes of behind the scenes!' But it's a cool ten minutes, and I guess even though I'm disappointed with the content, I say buy it if you love the movie. I mean, why not? The postcards are cool.