Seeing as over 30 years have passed between the initial release of Suspiria and today, it is awful hard for me to say what effect it would have had on me had I been alive to see it when it first hit theaters. Maybe at the time it would have been different, but after watching it for the first time today, well...sorry, but I don't see what the fuss is all about.

All right, I can see how the blatant employment of what appears to be well-hidden red, blue and yellow 30-watt bulbs may have been experimental for its time. And the score does a fair job of creating mood. The problem is that these things come across as transparent and lazy attempts to sift some actual artistic merit out of the bland, unsatisfying stew of a plot. The story here is so weak that it seems a mere afterthought to the visuals. As though Dario Argento just needed some crap for people to say for a few minutes in between drawn-out camera shots awash in primary colors. The dance academy is actually a witches' coven. Really, now? I understand the point must have been to create scenes evocative of nightmares, but much of it seems forced. No matter a movie's alleged contributions to the form artistically, if the story sucks then I just can't give it too much credit. It seems to me that Argento might have been better off not bothering with a plot, let alone one this paper-thin, and just gone with a surreal collage of images and sounds. That would have lent it a more "hallucionatory" feel anyway, which seems to be his primary concern. Since it would take up too much space for me to go into detail about all the weak spots in plot and dialogue, I'll sum it all up with: "If I count their steps, I can figure out where they're going." By the time Suzy solves the "mystery", I'm still trying to solve the one about why I should care.

Just as awkwardly forced into the proceedings is the score. For the first few minutes of what I take to be the de facto theme song of the movie, I was pretty impressed. A hauntingly simple minor-key melody that descends and returns, its unrelenting repetitiveness building almost unbearable tension, the apprehension of what horrifying event is just moments from taking place, and...boom. Nothing. Scene change. The music stops so abruptly that it sounds like someone hit the pause button. This happens many times throughout the movie. I would estimate that song to be playing over around 1/3 of the 98 minute duration. Maybe more. Sometimes it does lead to a horrific scene, but most times it seems to be abused in a cheap attempt to build suspense that the plot can't supply. And then nothing will happen. I've read a bit about the supposed brilliance of the score to this movie in its creating an underlying sense of unease and tension. For the early part of the film, I would have agreed. But not long into it, the tension and unease come not from genuine craft of fear, but rather from tedium and ear fatigue. A movie like this should put you on edge, and it does; it just does it in the wrong way, and the overall effect is for me to want to stop watching. Not because I'm scared in any way, but simply because it is almost too monotonous to bear.

So there it is. Perhaps on repeated viewings I will change my tune on this one, but I somehow doubt it. I give it 3 stars instead of the 2 I think it deserves right now due to its evident status as an artisitic landmark in the horror genre, but I just can't be impressed by this. Don't get me wrong, there were some things done well. Argento often succeeds in his attempt to create trippy visual atmospheres, and I can't deny that I was provoked to cries of "oh, god!" during the girl's dive into the razorwire pool (I found this scene much harder to watch than the first, and far more talked about, murder scene), but overall the movie was funny at best, and excruciatingly boring at worst. Seems to me like one of those ones people claim to "appreciate" because they want to sound intellectual, or maybe I just don't get it. Either way, it seems like a classic case of style over substance to me.