Sydney Pollack's 'The Yakuza' is simply one of the best "gangster" films ever produced, made more complex, resonant, and distinctive by it's examination of and immersion in the unique and complex culture of Japan, both ancient and modern, and the rigid moral code of its organized criminal clans.

The film also benefits hugely by being made on location in Tokyo, Osaka, and Kyoto, and by the fine performances of the marvelous Japanese actors in the cast, especially Keiko Kishi, a much-respected actress, and the iconic Ken Takakura, sometimes called the "Clint Eastwood of Japan". And, along with the film's often eloquent dialogue, it is his quiet, stoically resonant performance, along with Mitchum's wonderfully world-weary yet warm contribution, which gives the film its mournfully haunting emotional core.

And, at its heart, that core deals with the theme of "giri". Japanese for obligation, it is also defined as "burden", or, more specifically, "the burden hardest to bear". It is this theme which forms the powerful background to a moving and uncommonly layered study of obligation, honor, and friendship, and what those concepts mean when taken to their ultimate extreme.

Not particularly gory or explicit by today's standards -- or even when compared to 'The Godfather' films -- the violence makes a strong impact, nonetheless, both because of how it's choreographed and because of the particular use of the kitana, better known as the samurai sword.

Stylistically, the film has a unique rhythm -- a kind of poetic, almost mystical serenity punctuated by sudden bursts of harsh, kinetic, almost graceful violence. And Pollack's sure direction, both of his actors and the specific events of the world they live in, bring 'The Yakuza' to vivid life, aided immeasurably by a marvelous screenplay by Leonard Schraeder, Paul Schraeder, and Robert Towne, and by the evocative musical score by Dave Grusin which perfectly captures the mysterious beauty of modern day Japan.

But be mindful of the fact that, by today's standards, the pacing of this film is very leisurely and measured. The same is equally true of other late 60's, early 70's classics like 'Rosemary's Baby', 'The Conversation', and, to a degree, even 'The Exorcist'. In other words, 'The Yakuza' requires patience to let the story unfold in its own time. But the up-side is that this patience will be amply rewarded.

Interestingly, it's worth noting that Ridley Scott paid blatant homage to Pollack's film many years later in his own 'Black Rain', a very stylish (though inferior), slickly entertaining action film also set in modern day Japan. In addition to featuring many of the same story elements, including a plot dealing heavily with the Yakuza (though TONS of films also deal with that), the movie co-stars none other than Ken Takakura! And, both in Takakura's stoic resignation and moral authority, AND in his character's complicated relationship with his reluctant American partner (Michael Douglas), Scott tips his hat more than once to Pollack's undeservedly overlooked gem.

The somewhat barebones Warner Bros. DVD, at last does long overdo justice to the film's wide screen compositions and the lush yet elegantly understated cinematography of Kozo Okazaki, both bringing out the formalized, ritual beauty of Japanese culture and lifestyle.

Additionally, the bonus materials consist of a marvelous audio commentary by the late Sydney Pollack himself, giving much welcome insight into the film's production, and a "vintage" featurette (from which I derived the title of my review). But don't let that "vintage" throw you off. Like me, you'd probably expect the usual 1970's light, puff-piece, studio PR department 5-minute promo. But it turns out that the 'Promises To Keep' featurette is a much longer, more in-depth making-of piece, with a surprising amount of input from Pollack (he even narrates), as well as lots of behind-the-scenes footage both of rehearsals and the actual shooting.

A film that is like no other, you pass up `The Yakuza' at your peril. You really don't want to make the mistake of dismissing this gem as some 70's relic. After all, 'The Godfather' and 'Chinatown' are also of that particular "vintage"!