I bought this movie and it was a good show, but the media it is on is doomed.  Eventually technology will be available to copy flexplay discs just the same as a standard DVD.  Not only that, most consumers want to "own" their movies.  Plus, I don't know of a video store that rents its movies for five bucks unless they're intentinonally trying to fail (but I live in a small area and don't know what the prices are like in the big areas).
  This will go the way of DIVX -- it will last less than one year.  Its only hope of survival is for rental purposes.  That means your local video store has to constantly restock the Flexplay discs driving the cost of the rental over five dollars because if they have to constantly restock their titles that means there is a demand and they will raise prices.
  Some !sshole wrote a review saying it is ridiculous to worry about the garbage these things are going to cause (he must work for Flexplay).  Well, the truth is that if it did catch on (which it won't), it would create slightly less garbage than McDonald's.  I know I threw mine in the garbage after I watched it.  Imagine hundreds of thousands of homes in the U.S.A. alone watching two movies a day on Flexplay -- how much waste does that make? The CD long boxes were eliminated for such concerns and so will Flexplay.  The Flexplay discs can be recycled, but how many consumers will actually bother?  If you have to recycle the disc isn't it the same as bringing it back to the video store?  Late fees?  Join netflix. It is easy.
  This is simply another attempt for movie studios to discontinue DVDs so consumers can never own their video libraries.  They want you to buy Flexplay discs so they can make a killing on their movies long after their theatre run.  That's what DIVX was and that is what Flexplay is -- a total and complete rip off espically when it comes to the honest consumer who does not copy their DVDs.  It's always the honest people who get shafted for what the dishonest people do.  Renting them is fine, but if they try to replace DVDs with Flexplay their sales will suck just like DIVX and have to go back to DVDs.
  Mark my words, "less than one year".  But any knucklehead can predict that.