"...'Cause I know that you feel me somehow
You're the closest to heaven that I'll ever be
And I don't want to go home right now."
--"Iris", from the City of Angels soundtrack
In Edward Scissorhands, Tim Burton delivers a devastating slam against a conformist, superficial society, and even as we might snicker at the vacuous, gabbing neighbors, this movie forces us to ask some difficult questions about ourselves.  "Don't ever let anyone tell you that you have a handicap," one of those neighbors tells Edward towards the beginning of the movie.  In the end, however, the acceptance turns out to be all show and no substance.  How often do we give lip service to tolerance, but hold bigotry in our hearts?  Only one character, Kim, succeeds in (literally) embracing difference.
The world of "suburbia" is just as devoid of life as the "desert of the real" seen in The Matrix.  It may be painted in bright colors, but in the end, it is still a desert.  Although all the characters in this movie are caricatures, it's a great irony (and masterstroke on the part of Mr. Burton) that the most unusual-looking character is in fact the most real in a different sense.  It is poor, confused Edward with whom the viewer can truly make a connection.  Marooned among empty shells of people, this artificially-constructed boy seems at times to be the only one who genuinely has *soul*.
Johnny Depp does a mindblowing job of bringing Edward to life, perhaps even injecting something of himself into the shy, awkward artist, if his rather nervous conduct in the "Sound Bites" section is any indication.  The greatest part of his acting is nonverbal, far beyond the few words he softly speaks.  For instance, it was clear to me that Mr. Depp had studied the movements and facial expressions of virtuoso artists who are in their element.  In the scene where Edward begins giving haircuts, he reminded me of a soulful concert pianist, in how his surprisingly gentle movements were each charged with emotion.  Another interesting nonverbal aspect--and one that may even cause the viewer to misinterpret Edward for a moment, just as the neighbors do, is the way he nervously twitches the blades of his "hands" at times.  Although it can appear threatening, once you look in his eyes it's clear he's simply fidgeting in the same way as one might tap their fingers on the table.
But to me (besides the touching scene where embraces Kim), one of the most poignant moments was when Edward flinched away from the Avon lady's touch, when one would *think* that of the two characters, he was the least threatened.  In the end, Edward seems to have had the correct measure of the situation.  It is tragic that his exposure to "what we call reality" resulted in such great pain to Edward and Kim.  Although the court psychiatrist comments that Edward's grasp on reality is tenuous, I came away thinking that only Edward and Kim were in touch with the substance behind the illusion everyone else confused for "real".
"And I don't want the world to see me
'Cause I don't think that they'd understand
When everything's made to be broken
I just want you to know who I am."
--"Iris"