Dallas Season 3 has no shortage of backstabbing deals, illicit love affairs and melodrama.  This was the season that cemented Dallas's spot in the ratings an caused countless millions to ask the question, "Who shot JR?"  I enjoyed every episode of it from the first to the last.  Some of the storylines were simply delicious and I spent many a night glued to my DVD player eagerly waiting to see what happens next.  I think the best thing about these box sets is that we get it all; the entire season in one big viewing marathon and we don't have to wait till next week to see what happens .  JR of course is the driving force and most of the storylines centre around him.  I think the business subplots are the best and clearly show how far JR is willing to go to meet his ends.  I have to say however unlike it's counterpart "Dynasty" in "Dallas" there are not that many strong women.  I found most of the main female characters simply too weak.  Sue Ellen tops the list with her constant victim mentality and "I can't live without a man" excuses.  She truly comes across as completely pathetic.  Her alcoholism just adds to her wretched

 persona.  At times you simply want to scream out, "Get a life woman!"  Her coldness towards her son in the beginning of the season was almost too painful to watch and just shows how messed up this woman truly is.  Next is Pam who maybe a working girl but ultimately results to tears and tantrums when things don't go her way.  The storyline about the rare genetic disease that might kill her baby if she had one was okay but too drawn out.  I simply could not believe she simply could not tell Bobby about it from the start.  Miss Ellie comes across as more stronger then the previous two and she had one of the best storylines in this season.  Unlike Pam or Sue Ellen she at least isn't afraid to lock horns with her Ewing man.  Lucy at times seems nothing more then a sperm receptacle.  I mean really; couldn't they have written some interesting sub plot for her?  She simply jumps from one boyfriend to another and at the end remains single.  She even doesn't know how to pick men all that well either.  Her parents returning again was okay but it quickly grew boring.  What exactly is wrong with Gary Ewing anyway?  I think they should have made him gay in my opinion just like Stephen was in Dynasty.  Can you imagine JR having to deal with a gay brother?  He would have fed him to the sharks in no time.  I have to say I found Allan Beame JR's underling quite interesting and for some reason quite sexy.  I kept hoping that he had some dark secret to hide but it turned out to be just Betty Lu.  Then there is Kristin; the conniving sex kitten who teams up with JR and even tries to best him at times.  She was clearly one of the best female characters in the season.  Ray the foreman really didn't have much to say or do in this season say for an affair with Donna Culver which truly evoked the viewer to suspend disbelief.  I mean apart from a good roll in the hay what else could he offer such an accomplished woman?  Finally as for Pam's brother; I never liked his character.  He is just too creepy and weird and not at all attractive.  What did Sue Ellen ever see in him?  Overall, this was an exciting season with a grand finale at the end.  Highly recommended and please bring out season 4 soon!