I just bought my Spider-Man 67 Collection set the day it came out and was just blown away at the vivid colors and the obvious care they put into remastering the series. Even the sound is excellent and it is great they did not mess with the music. I used to watch this in the late 1970s after I came home from kindergarten. Spider-man is my all-time favorite hero and I wanted to be him when I grew up. Well, I am not, but I have this series to watch over and over again. Yeah, I know the cartoon is real cheesy, but that is beside the point. It is a timeless cartoon and it will last for years. I have a copy of all of the episodes on video tape from Y-TV in Canada and the tape quality is horrible (won it on ebay). There has been a lot of speculation about the fact that the series should have 77 or 79 stories. Well, after doing some research on the web, I have come to the conlusion that there are 77 stories. If there are 2 missing, please let me know. I do have to say that the price is excellent since it is not 50 bucks for each season. I bought mine at Best Buy and paid $48.00 before tax and it comes down to $16.00 per season - Well worth the money!
I would like to give this box set 4 stars because of the following, but I am going to give it 5 stars because it is my favorite cartoon of all time. Here are the reasons why I would like to give it 4 stars. 
1. There are no extras, other than the disney previews (I do not care for Disney movies). It would have been nice if they had interviewed Stan Lee and the other people who were part of it (those that are still alive). The booklet is a nice addition, but not good enough. They could have had a 7th disc as a limited edition collector's item, but they did not. 
3. I really do not want to know that the cartoon is distributed by Buena Vista Television. They should have kept the original information at the very end intact (distributed by ARP Films, Inc., and a Marvel Comics Animation Presentation with Spidey's face, but it is not a perfect world). Really picky huh? Oh well.
Go get your copy right now and watch it over and over. Now bring on the Marvel Superheroes from the 1960s.