My favorite memories of the summer of 1979 involved seeing the Kids Are Alright numerous times at Philly's famed Tower Theater on a huge screen with full-concert, Dolby sound. If memory serves, that was also the year Neil Young's "Rust Never Sleeps" came out, and it, too, was a marvel to behold in a real concert venue.
After years of various VHS versions, mostly edited and time-compressed for timing, from faded, scratched prints (VH-1 has shown one of those), we finally have this, the "Director's Cut" restored to its glory through painstaking image and audio reprocessing. It's vibrant and loud and instantly takes me back to those summer nights where concert-sized crowds filled a theater to cheer a movie screen as if the band were there live. (It really was that energizing an experience!)
"TKAA" is a fantastic testimonial to why the Who were so great and so much more than the endless-retirement band that only occassionally showed glimpses of their old fire and power. The intensity of the performances will knock you out. And I defy anyone to not have their breath taken away in the instrumental outro on "Won't Get Fooled Again" when we cut from Keith Moon's drum flurry (great under-kit lighting) to Townshend flying across the stage, sliding to his knees as Daltrey's scream shatters the soundtrack.
Perhaps more importantly, the wit, depth, and pathos of the band shine through the interview and film clips. From their mod days ("Hey, Paul Weller, Keith Moon called; he wants his shirt back!") through the recording of Who Are You, we get the band at all phases, warts and all. It's simply heartbreaking to see Keith Moon's descent into old-age at 31, and chills run down your spine when he looks to the camera in response to the interviewer's question about truth, "The truth as you want hear it? Oh, no. I can't do that. You couldn't afford me." He would be dead within weeks of the film's completion.
As impressed as I was by the quality of the Led Zepplin DVD issue earlier this year, The Kids Are Alright reminds me why the Who were my favorite band. I don't recall ever hearing Plant or Page tell a funny story or tear at each other's sleeves during interviews. And the restoration of image and sound along with the DVD bonus features are wonderful. All in all, my favorite rock documentary gets the proper DVD treatment at last. Long live rock, indeed.