Being stuck in a college dorm for all four seasons of QAF, I've been forced to watch entire seasons in one sitting once the DVD's come out, and the fourth season was my last in this tradition.

After two days of biding my time until finals and being comatose in front of the TV, I can only say... okay, that's done. Now what?

The show that won me over with snappy, vibrant writing and fun characters that audiences almost immediately empathize with has become complacent, dull, and predictable. I don't know what's worse: the fact that Showtime is pulling the plug after season five, or that they didn't pull the plug after season three.

Plot lines that used to span a handful of episodes now resolve in less than 20 minutes, lovers who would have commanded the audience care about them now come and go in an episode or less, and poor Sharon Gless pops in and out of shots to make prophetic cameos dispensing less and less sage advice and more one-liners that seem like they were torn from a Queer-Catch-Phrase-A-Day calendar.

Are there positives? Of course. Brian having to suck things up and be realistic is fun, but poorly implemented. Ben's syrupy hope for the turning tide of politics is nice, but sentimental in light of recent goings-on in Washington. Mel and Lindsey's domestic problems are a good attempt at addressing the real challenges in relationships, but their separation seems almost forced and leaves the viewer wondering, "But... wait, this is TV. When are they getting back together?" Debbie is a wonderful character, and even though she seems to be reduced to a greek chorus in some episodes, she is still a saving grace. I would watch the show just to see Sharon chug through that role, and do it shamelessly and with vigor.

Overall, this season seems to stray frighteningly far from the original plan of making edgy, in-your-face gay TV, but I think the bigger issue at hand is, how long can you make edgy, in-your-face gay TV before the avant garde becomes the norm? It is perhaps a better thing that QAF seems a bit stale and ordinary, for if nothing else it means real life might even be imitating art. If our culture is changing to the point of making QAF mundane, well, I say, let there be Liberty Avenues!