Season 4 continues with Dean returning from Hell. This entire season heads in a different direction that now involves Angels in the fight against Demons. There is a hidden agenda because they can see the future and both Sam and Dean are involved in monumental ways. This season follows in similar footsteps as the previous 3 with a great deal more humor added. Throw into the pot, the threat of the apocolypse and we know we're in for an exciting season. Dean (Ackles) plays an extremely well acted tortured character who has to come to terms with his time spent in the "pit" and the parts he has and will play the the coming apocolypse. Sam (Padelecki) has changed since his brother's "death" and is now a very troubled young man who has gone so far "off the reservation" that Dean has difficulty connecting with him again. This season shows the tug of war between brothers with 1 doubting his worthiness and the other, now an addict and obssessed with revenge. With the brother's fighting constantly and the Angels doing the same in heaven, it's a war that no one seems to win. Castiel is the Angel responsible for "rescuing" Dean from Hell and he now becomes a major character in the storyline. Where the Angels believe Sam to be an abomination, they are principally interested only in Dean. Sam on the other hand has his BFF, Ruby, and isn't aware of the dangers there until it is too late. Disc 2 of this season has some of the funniest episodes shown to date and is a must see over and over again. This season is a whole new ball game for the brothers and will not disappoint. The totally unexpected twist which involves the 2 brothers was not anticipated and leaves you to impatiently await Season 5. This is the countdown to the biggest mistake the boys have ever made. Much more pressure is put on the Dean character and Ackles does a brilliant job with this. So to with the Sam character, Padalecki portrays his obsessions convinvcingly. Positively a must see. Don't forget the Gag Reels and the end of each Season. Some are absolutely timeless. "Eye of the Tiger". Watch for it.