Crash is a very sexually explicit film, but if you buy or rent this movie expecting it to be an evening's erotic entertainment, you are going to be disappointed, because it is also an anti-erotic film.
Even in the midst  of frenzied lovemaking, the characters remain distant, their voices quiet  and abstracted, their gazes directed inward.  These are people who have  been told all their lives by their culture, by TV and movies, that sex is,  on the one hand, the most perfect form of communion and connection with  another human being; and, on the other hand, that it is the ultimate in  transcendent and transformative experiences.  Instead, they discover to  their horror that even during sex they still feel nothing.  They crave  connection, they are starved for a glimpse of transcendence, but no matter  what they do, no matter who they do it with or how often, while their  bodies may feel passion, their minds and hearts remain cold and empty.  
In the more recent movie Pleasantville, the Jennifer/Mary Sue character  is unable to feel anything either, and remains stubbornly black and white  no matter how much sex she has, until her brother suggests that "maybe  it isn't the sex" that is the key to moving from black and white to  color, from passionlessness to feeling.  Unfortunately, in Crash, there is  no one to suggest to David and Catherine Ballard that maybe it isn't  through sex that they will find the transformation and connection they are  craving.  So they instead seek more and more extreme forms of sexual  stimulation, only to be disappointed again and again.  
James is hurt in  a car crash, and during his stay in the hospital he meets Helen (who was in  the other car) and later Vaughan, a man who like James and Catherine is in  desperate search of feeling, only he looks for it in the violence of car  crashes.  With Helen, at first James, then Catherine too is drawn into  Vaughan's world, where sex and death (eros and thanatos for you Freudians)  meet in the twisted metal of wrecked cars and the mutilated bodies of the  victims of fatal car crashes and the survivors of near-fatal ones.  
They  attend staged recreations of famous car crashes, like the one that killed  James Dean.  They have sex in crashed cars, and start touring crash sites  on the freeway as a form of foreplay. They begin to watch films of crash  tests and fatal race accidents like other people would watch erotic films,  and to have sex with people whose bodies have been mutilated by car  crashes.  
But not even the horror of mutilation or the adrenaline rush  of near-death experience can lend James and Catherine's desperate coupling  the depth of feeling that they so desperately crave.  
Like all the  people who buy expensive automobiles to give them a feeling of power and  independence, only to discover that no matter how snazzy their car is, they  still feel powerless and unhappy, James and Catherine have bought into one  of our culture's Big Lies, that sex is the answer.  This film shows us that  it is not.