If director David Cronenberg's early films like Videodrome and The Fly were concerned about "the new flesh", then his most recent efforts have been fascinated with "the new mind."  It might be the drug addled world of Naked Lunch or the disturbed mind of Spider or the amoral world of Eastern Promises, but the director has gone from visceral horror into more intellectually disturbing terrain.

And "A Dangerous Method" fits this world view quite well.  I was leery of seeing this film since it generated very mixed reviews, with some people loving it and others finding it tedious.  I liked it a lot and think the problem is that this is really two films.  On the surface everything is Victorian prim and proper.  Except for some naughty spanking scenes, the film has few Cronenbergian flourishes.

But go one level deeper and follow what everyone is talking about and things get more disturbing.  When Carl Jung uses Freud's experimental "talking method" on a new female patient Sabrina Spielrein, we get into a world of sexual repression, adulterous affairs, mysticism versus hedonism, and hints of European Anti-Semitism on the eve of World War II.  There may also be an intellectual menage a trois going on here - with Jung as ego rebelling against superego father figure in Freud and Spielrein as id (and Vincent Cassel's hedonistic Otto Gross could serve as Libido, I guess).

Cerebral and complex, and let's be honest, dialogue heavy in quite a few places, this is not an action packed film.  But it is an intellectually challenging and provocative multi-level film, with superb cinematography and fine performances by all the leads.

I must admit I am a fan of director Cronenberg - but I am not blind to his faults.  He can be very distant and aloof as a director - M Butterfly was definitely not his best effort and Spider left me cold.  I found Dangerous Method challenging and involving from start to finish.  In his early film Scanners, Cronenberg had a famous scene where a human head literally explodes.  Cronenberg is still there in your head, just messing with it in an entirely new way.