First of all, I generally agree with everyone that this is a very well-done movie, and the real-life drama is more engaging than most  works of fiction. For me, the most emotional moment was when Arthur Agee's mother found out that she had passed her exams to become an RN. I wish there had been a little more focus on the mothers of this story, as they are the ones who seem to bear the hardest burden of trying to hold the families together under pretty severe circumstances.

I'm not giving this movie 5 stars for a couple of reasons. First of all, I think the underlying purpose of the film is to show how difficult (basically impossible) it is for a high school kid to make it in the NBA. Also, despite the claims of the coaches that these basketball programs keep kids off the streets, eventually they grow up and have to move on with their lives, and a trophy doesn't get them a job. The movie graphically illustrates this, but doesn't leave us with any answers or even choices or discussion points, and it looks like these kids will end up on the streets or in supposedly miserable jobs. From the DVD notes it sounds like that wasn't the case, but that's clearly the exception to the rule.

I'm sure the filmmakers would say that their intent was just to document the lives of two kids trying to make it in the NBA. In that case, I feel like they're almost being as exploitive as the St. Joe's coach and the others who try to live their dreams through these kids. I'm sure this wasn't the filmmakers' intent, but the whole issue of documenting what is largely a tragedy comes into play. Maybe the documenters don't provide direct assistance to their subjects, but shouldn't they provide more content that could improve this situation for the next set of kids? What about the fact that we, the paying sports audience, are funding the kind of behavior that keeps this whole charade in motion?

So, despite being an engaging look at two families on the edge trying to make it to the top, I think this film is actually kind of timid and on the periphery of the real issues, both with the families themselves, and with society as a whole.

Finally, I wonder if Siskel and Ebert would have been as enthusiastic about this film if it had been made in, say, New York City. Does the fact that it took place in Chicago bias their viewpoint in any way? Yes, they are to be applauded for raising this film up from obscurity, and I probably wouldn't have watched it if not for their persistence. But in assessing the supposed "greatness" of this movie I'm not seeing everything that they see, and I think the local angle is part of that.

Overall, a very engaging and interesting movie, but not an unqualified 5*'s as the other reviewers have given it.