Having just viewed STAR TREK: INSURRECTION for the first time since it's initial theatrical release, I will say that the  passage of time has been rather kind.  Though I found it to be an extremely disappointing entry in the franchise the first time around, my revisit to the third NEXT GENERATION offering has yielded better results.

Taking a more light hearted approach than before, screenwriter Michael Pillar provides genuine laughs with his story as the crew attempts to prevent a race of people called the Ba'ku from being wrongfully removed from a planet of eternal youth by their enemy race, the Son`a.  The Federation's involvement in these nefarious plans draws quite obvious parallels to the historic wrongs done to the  Indians here in America over the last two centuries.  Jonathan Frakes again takes the directorial reigns and seems to really be enjoying himself, along with the entire cast.  Not all of the humor works, however, as we are occasionally subjected to embarrassing moments such as  the infamous "breast" conversation between Doctor Crusher and Counselor Troi, Worf's pimple, Data's "lock and load" moment, and a few other not-too-funny moments.  Overall, the humor does work and is balanced well with the stories more action oriented sequences.

The story this time around is bit slow moving, but it offers up plenty of wonderful character moments for the cast along the way.  Geordi getting his sight back and watching his first sunrise as we would see it was very touching, reminding me of how good LeVar Burton is when the writers bother to utilize his talents.  Picard is finally given a romance again, after what seems to be an eternity of their having forgotten the Captain`s romantic side.  In regards to the characters, the movie excels, though the plot itself is founded on rather shaky ground at times.  As the story moves along, we are presented with an alien race obsessed with cosmetic surgery as the primary villains.  This is laughable at best and makes it hard to take their threat seriously.  I cannot help but think this was added as an excuse to use more silly latex facial appliances on the actors.  Also, the story is bogged down by silly plot twists towards the end, such as the ingenious last minute use of the holo-deck ship.  The space battles were not well written, resorting to silly ideas like ejecting warp cores to counter the effects of some kind of unexplained new weapon, as well as steering a huge starship via Nintendo joystick.  For every scene that made me enjoy this movie, there was another one that left me scratching my head in frustration.  Not helping matters was the not-so-special digital effects themselves, to which I can only ask the question, "Where was Industrial Light & Magic when we needed them?"

We are treated to three new guest stars in this adventure.  Donna Murphy plays Picard's Ba'ku love interest, Anij, who shares some wonderful on screen chemistry with Patrick Stewart.  F. Murray Abraham plays the leader of the Son'a called Ru'afo.  Impatience is the key word here, and Abraham is never really given anything to work with that would humanize his character too much outside of typically bland villainous  motivations.  He does his best (while hidden away underneath ludicrous makeup), but not enough material was given to Abraham to allow him to become anything more than a generic antagonist.  Anthony Zerbe plays Vice-Admiral Dougherty of Starfleet.  He is actually quite good here, playing a man who genuinely wants to share the prospects of eternal youth with the galaxy, but through his dealings has lost his own ability to see the  immediate wrongs about to be perpetrated.  Zerbe brings to surface the aspects of a character that shows his regret at the direction things are going, but is powerless to truly stop it at this point.

This two disc special edition treatment Paramount has given us is another winner, I must say.  We are given the now expected text commentary by Michael and Denise Okuda which is always interesting, but curiously enough there is no audio commentary accompanying this outing.  Rounding out the first disc is a wonderful DTS soundtrack for the film that adds a great deal to the viewing experience.

The main attraction on Disc 2 is of course the deleted scenes, which oddly enough are not listed anywhere on the DVD packaging.  Seven scenes are offered up for this film, including the alternate ending.  A few of the extra scenes are preceded by comments from co-producer Peter Lauritson as he explains why the scene was deleted.  There are two scenes of note here:  "The Kiss" features Picard and Anij sharing a passionate kiss as time slows down around them, depicting one of those special moments in one's life spoken of earlier in the film.  "Alternate Ending" depicts villainous Ru'afo as he is stranded aboard the Injector pod.  After choosing to remain in the projectile rather than admit his failure, the pod is launched  into the rejuvenating rings of the planet with the Son'a leader aboard, causing him to become younger and younger.  It is explained that studio executives thought this ending was weak, but I feel that it would have suited the story quite well and actually fit the ideals of Star Trek much better than the more generic explosive ending we were given.

There are many interviews and mini-documentaries that give an informative look behind the scenes of the film, but "The Story" stood out as the best.  In it, Michael Pillar provides lots of insight as to what inspired the story, as well as how and why differing elements were altered along the way.  Plenty of effects interviews, storyboards, trailers, and photo galleries abound, as well as two interesting retrospectives; one featuring the career of make-up artist Michael Westmore and the other devoted to the women of Star Trek.

Overall, this is yet another worthy entry in Paramount's line of STAR TREK Special Edition DVD releases.