Being familiar with Rodiriguez's past films, from El Mariachi to Spykids to that The Faculty, I approached Sin City with a certain sense of expectation; this is not a director particularly interested in story and character. He tells a damn good, visceral action tale and blows things up with startling aplomb, but that's about it. I was expecting nothing more from Sin City than an entertaining action film, and what I got was much more than that.

Sure it's all adolescent male fantasy with large-breasted women in bondage clothes and badass dudes with big guns and hard attitudes, but in a way it's a look out our society devoid of pretense; men are manly and immoral or not worth a damn to the general public, women are essentially in bondage and, despite notions of female empowerment, still basically subservient to the whimsy of the great phallus that rules over us all. Granted, this is probably reading too much into the film, but I doubt someone with the intelligence of Frank Miller would over look this.

The stories of the film, which I will spare you of, as no doubt everyone else on this site has written it out in great detail, are all very engrossing and told with Rodriguez's prodigious sense pacing and intensity. What really puts the film over the edge for me, and makes it one step beyond traditional action fare, is the sense of morality and the deeply nuanced characters, all brought to life well by the respective actors, standouts being Del Toro, Owen, Dawson, Rourke and the unfortunately underused Michael Clark Duncan and Brittany Murphy.

And then there are the visuals: Rodriguez and Miller, working directly from the latter's source material, have created an amazing, multi-faceted and entirely original world on screen. There are some who might call this stylistic choice a concession of the medium, and others who would hail it as brilliant; I would simply say it's inspired. Unlike others films that have employed similar techniques, from Star Wars to Sky Captain, it is never distracting. Never do Rodriguez and Miller let the style take away from the substance, a very admirable feat.

Could I write a review of this film without addressing the issue of violence? While this film is ultra violent, if you care to viddy, from start to finish, it's not really a violent film; it's all very cartoonist, and the style of the movie, with it's green screen scenery and lack of color, doesn't really allow the film to be oppressively violent. While some of the content-child molestation, rape, prostitution, drugs, etc. . .-is disturbing and horrifying, I would say that on a whole this film is not quite on par with Fight Club, Apocalypse Now, or Irreversible as far as actual, gruesome, psychological violence ins concerned. It just isn't realistic or believable enough.

So all this praise, but why not five stars? Well, I'm judging this film on a scale not indigenous to Amazon, and so I won't quite give it classic status. While it is an entertaining, intense, and emotional involving film, it is lacking a certain something that would put in on par with films such as Pulp Fiction, Seven, and Taxi Driver in the annals of insane, violent, grotesque, pulpy Americana. Perhaps it is the comic books style, the lack of character development of back story (particularly in the case of Murphy, Owens's, and Dawson's characters-an extra 20 minutes could have easily remedied this problem)or perhaps it just requires another viewing, but Sin City does not haunt the viewer, does not stay with and torment you with it's dystopian visions; you leave the theater, and it's gone into the night nearly as quickly as it's come.

Sin City, unlike Rodriguez's previous films, is one of gravitas. It carrier and emotional depth, a sense of morality, and a vision of its characters that has been crafted with great care by a master hand. The film is like a fractal-it is smooth until you get very close, at which point it becomes and infinitely unfolding canvas of smaller and smaller recesses. More than anything, this is a film that is striking in the obvious maturity and command of craft of its directors. Sin City proves that there is more to Rodriquez than met then eye.