The key for me in a combat flick is reality. historical accuracy, no cliches, avoidance of sentimentality and romanticizations. In the last few years flicks like Enemy at the Gates, Stalingrad, and especially Terence Malick's Thin Red Line do the best. When Trumpets Fade is smaller in its ambitions, production values and scope. But as such it hangs in there with these other achievements except for having a kind of epic scale. The relationships in the screenplay are more believeable than Enemy at the Gates -no romantic sub-plot- have no cultural obscurities for an American viewer -no societal war guilt to overcome like Stalingrad- and except for one brief scene there is no interplay of spirituality that one finds in Thin Red Line though that element is what makes Thin Red Line so resonant and soul shaking. When Trumpets Fade is brisk, direct, hugely existential, and as fatalistic as the other films mentioned here. The special effects are somewhat modest but fully appropriate and not lame in any way and with the exception of a few shots of the enemy tanks it all plays quite authentically. The main lapse in effectiveness is the opening of the film that is a kind of pastiche on a documentary. This is done to set up the historical context of the film's story. This 'educational' bit could have been pulled off better with a different choice of narrator. This film tells a harrowing story that condemns its protagonists to almost certain death or severe wounds, provides them with objectives that can not be reasonably achieved, and thus shows how unvalorous, how unexalted, how simply miserable, sadistic, and emotionally excruciating war is for soldiers. It really doesn't attempt tp glorify American patriotism that is the downfall of other recent large scale productions but actually beautifully shows the extreme pathos enacted between fellows in, as the characters of the film say, "the death factory." This is actually accomplished in the amazing opening sequence of the screenplay and mirrored less successfully in the denoument. In the end the subject is really the randomness of fate, the perseverence of the human will to live -and to die- when faced with complete lack of control over circumstances, and, with quite some poignance, the love of fellows for one another when faced with their unavoidable mortality. The historical battle depicted is a great subject for having been relegated to quite some obscurity in the annals of World War II history. And the producers, director, cast and crew rise to the opportunity to exercise their considerable skills with very little if any of the middle class sentiment that is the downfall of similar flicks that pander to audiences. It is a film making aesthetic that reflects some of the values that went in to a very few films from an earlier era, made much closer in time to the historical event they depict, and so chastened with a sense of reality not glossed over by a false need to be uplifting. Like Hell is for Heroes.