The keys to understanding the Bible are in the first 3 chapters of Genesis.If you don't understand these chapters,you'll never be able to accurately understand the Bible. People today are atheists because they have not understood the Bible or even attempted to read it.

Man was to be God over this earth Genesis 1:26-28..But the fall of Adam and Eve in the Garden brought Spiritual and physical death. The moment they ate of the fruit they died of spiritual death separated from God our creator. We were all born to have a relationship with God for all eternity,we were never meant to die. So after fall all future generations would be born into that same sin also separated from God. God couldn't just start over because he had given man dominion over this earth and God is a God of his word he can't take it back or otherwise he wouldn't be a God we could trust. God immediately kicked Adam and Eve out of the Garden otherwise they would had eaten off the Tree of Life and we would of had to live in the state were in without ever dying of physical death and forever separated from God. Satan was trying to get to that tree of life.

See man's body gives him authority on earth. Satan tapped into man's authority by using the body of a serpent. He tempted Eve through the serpent and caused Adam to commit high treason. The only way Satan could get to the tree of life was to get Adam to sin and become subordinate to him, for Adam was the God of this world. After Adam became subordinate to Satan, Satan became his lord. Whatever Adam could tap into naturally, satan could have. Satan was trying to get Adam to tap into the tree of life. But God was smarter than that.! He put Adam out of the Garden to stop that from coming to pass!

God began devising his plan for man's redemption God had to find a way to get back on earth legally unlike Satan who got here illegally.
God started forming covenants with Noah first than Abraham. To make a long story short.... God sent his son to mend that relationship if we only believe in Jesus.

We are spirit beings having a physical experience. But a lot people don't believe it because they died of Spiritual death separated from God. When Jesus came he promised if we believed in him and asked for forgiveness we would have eternal life again and he would send the Holy Spirit to live in our heart and show us how to live the way we were meant to live. That was the main purpose of God sending his son was to buy us back from spiritual death. You can't truly know the depth of this without meditating in Gods word and get and few good Christian Books.... I highly recommend...{YOUR SPIRITUAL AUTHORITY by Charles Capps}....It will answer all those questions for unbelievers also believers it's changed my life I am blessed...I also feel this was a good documentary ...I would recommend it... But to know the thing of God and Creation to have to read Gods instruction manual the "BIBLE"..everything created has instruction. Do you really think God wanted us to figure this world out on our own. If would would had never fell in the Garden of Eden we wouldn't need a Bible to show us how to live...May God give you the discernment you need to find him he has so much to excite us with his knowledge....God Bless