As Disney's first feature length film Snow White stands out as a timeless classic. The story is about how jealousy and vanity can consume and destroy a person to the point where they would kill those who stand in their way. The moral however is about how outer beauty cannot hide inner ugliness and that the most beautiful person is one who is beauty on the inside as well as outside. Here you go world, Disney's first princess movie.

As I suggested earlier this movie is about beauty and jealousy. Snow White is a princess and she has a hatred-filled stepmother. Her stepmother has run out of tolerance for Snow White because she has surpassed her as the fairest of them all and must be killed. The huntsman she hires to do the job can't bring himself to do it and tells Snow White to run away, which she does. She runs away and finds the house that belongs to the Seven Dwarfs, Sleepy, Sneezy, Happy, Grumpy, Doc, Bashful, and Dopey. Snow White, along with her furry animal friends, cleans their tiny house in the hopes that they will let her stay, which of course they do. Now seven men living in one house and who work in a mine don't have much time to cook and clean, what else can you expect from seven bachelors? So, Snow White doing all the house work helps out immensely. So Snow White hides out there for a while. The Queen in the meantime finds out that Snow White is still alive and plans to kill her herself, but first she has to disguise herself and make a poison apple that contains the Sleeping Death poison. The Queen disguised shows up at the cottage (yet another example of why you shouldn't take anything from strangers) and Snow White takes a bite of the apple and isn't really dead, but looks dead. The only way to get her to wake is love's first kiss. She already has a love so all that was needed was for Prince Charming to find her. He finds her and kisses her and she miraculously wakes up.....and they all lived happily ever after.

This was the original "happily ever after" story. This movie set the bar for all fairytales and princess movies to come. This should be the first Disney movie any child watches because it is the first. Now while this movie doesn't cut it much for me anymore it was greatest thing on earth when I was five. I still love the dwarfs especially Grumpy and Dopey. I liked Grumpy because I could relate to him and I love Dopey because he's goofy and made me laugh. I love the early animation style they used. There's just something about it, maybe it's just comforting because I grew up with it. I like how there's a main point and there's no deviation, it's very to the point, but I find that's actually very little to the story itself; it's just very short. In the end all you can say is that it is the epitome of the Disney classic fairytale.

The Blu-Ray comes couple with a DVD version of the film in this Diamond Edition release. The audio is a crystal clear 7.1 surround channel mix that almost feels like you're hearing the picture as it was during the recording phase. There's also Disney View that integrates with BD Live to provide a full-impact look at Disney's first animated feature. You get music videos, featurettes and dedicated looks back at what went into making the film. Plus, you get a sneak peek at The Princess and the Frog.

What matters most of all is the picture quality. This transfer looks like someone opened the Disney vaults and gave you a copy of the original print. There is no digital noise, artifacts, compression issues or dirt on the print. Hell, I can't think of a recent release that offers you a film that perfect. The DVD copy included with the film packs most of the EPK and Disney Channel friendly content that's to be expected. What's going to keep this Blu-Ray disc spinning in your home theater is the Wow factor. That first Wow you get from the opening credits through the final frame of the film. This release is a revelation and it's one of the most recommended buys of the Fall.