I'm a great fan of the books and the first four movies.  I was sorely disappointed in David Yates' adaptation of The Order of the Phoenix and afraid he'd do as poorly with The Half Blood Prince.

As a bit of background, I re-read Order of the Phoenix before seeing the movie and was, probably, more disappointed than I might have been had I not been as familiar with the text at the time I saw the movie.  At that point I made a vow not to re-read Half Blood Prince before going to the movie.  Unfortunately, it was a vow I was unable to keep.  I read the book, aloud, with a friend, just before going to the movie.  I should have known something was up when I was able to show up at the theatre on the first weekend of the film's opening and just buy two tickets for the same day (I live in NYC)!

The books get darker as the series progresses and Half Blood Prince is the darkest yet.  There are so many things in the book that serve to set up The Deathly Hallows and so few of them were actually portrayed, or portrayed well, in the film.  I was devastated to learn that David Yates was directing the last two films, as I was so unhappy with Order of the Phoenix, however, "unhappy" doesn't come close to the way I felt after actually seeing Half Blood Prince.

I question whether Yates has ever read the books (and if he did, did he like them???) or if he only read the treatment for the scripts?  There are several places in the book that cause me to not just cry, but to weep.  I wondered if I could make it through the movie and not look like a complete dishrag when I left.  I believe this will illustrate my feelings fairly well:  When the credits rolled, I looked at my friend and said, "So, where do you want to eat?"

I don't believe I shed one tear and I think that says it all.  If you want more: you know how die-hard fans always stay for the credits?  Almost the entire theatre got up and walked out as the credits began to roll.

Will I buy this 1-star DVD?  Yes, I want to complete my collection and I continue to have hopes that the two-part ending will, somehow, be better--although with David Yates at the helm, I very much doubt it.  What a shame.