"Riki-Oh: The Story of Ricky" is a movie that's best served to those not expecting it, like walking in a room where it's playing or renting it with no idea of what it's like, which is violence first, everything else a distant second. In a lot of ways it reminds me of a variation of the "Dead Alive" kind of gore, which is gore that keeps increasing and increasing to the point of gut-busting hilarity by the end of the movie. I say variation though, because while Dead Alive deals out the gore in doses that increase as the movie progresses (and actually serves the plot and moves the story along), Riki-Oh's violence is consistently brutal from the first stomach punch to the final aformentioned bloodbath of ridiculousness.

Originally a manga, Riki-Oh is about Ricky, a character who's name changes from Riki-Ho to Riki-Oh, and is even spelled two different ways on the package cover (I'll refer to him as Ricky for sanity's sake). Ricky is put in jail for a crime that we will find out about later on. The prison is apparently high-tech and futuristic, but the only thing futuristic about it are the mutant supervillains that Ricky has to fight throughout the movie. They are called The Gang of Four, not to be confused with the mutant postpunk band. Fortunately, Ricky is trained in the martial art of punching through tombstones, as illustrated in a training flashback. He also seems to have a mutant healing factor, which serves him well in scenes where his arm is almost cut off or he is left in a hole for a week without food and water, and comes out of it completely fine (just a little hungry).

The limb ripping and torso impalements save many of the fights in this movie, as only one cast member, a woman who plays the main (male)Gang of Four member, seems to have any martial arts ability, and actually busts out some impressive moves. Even the main actor mostly punches his way through the obsacles set before him.

In the midst of all this there is some sort of plot, but to pay attention to it only draws out the grand canyon-sized plotholes and simple logic questions, and I don't mean how a man is still standing and fighting after having his intestines ripped out. No, more like out of sync audio, a warden who's glass eye keeps switching from right to left, and a prison where the prisoners seem to be allowed to roam around freely at all hours. Then again, considering that the cell block enforcers are superpowered sadists called The Gang of Four, that last one may not be too illogical. In fact, to any gore hound or fan of violence, the spectacle that is Riki-Oh rewards so much on initial viewings that the ridiculous plotholes and logic holes are like extra comedic icing on the cake when you're subsequently showing it to friends for the fifth or sixth time. This of course is after the sight of a man crushing another man's head with his bare hands becomes old hat, which I'm convinced can never happen.