After the Sixth Sense came out, a star appeared on Late Night TV and literally spoiled the ending for everyone. Such was the case with me for Planet of the Apes. From its hideous VHS cover to that classic Simpsons parody ("I hate every ape I see, from Chimpan-A to Chimpan-Z"), the ending was spoiled long before I even watched the movie. And it didn't help that the film is often listed on classic movies everybody watched such as Psycho, Gone with the Wind and the Godfather. Well even if the ending was spoiled, I found the film incredibly enjoyable regardless.

4 astronauts crash land on a planet, one being killed during the crash. Very desolate and seemingly void of life. However, there exists a primitive era race of men who are hunted by intelligent apes. An oppressive society against men, the apes have little tolerance of man so when one of the astronauts, Taylor, manages to surprise them by being able to talk and reason, he becomes public enemy number 1.

Like I said, the twist was spoiled long before these eyes watched the film so as I'm watching, I was actually surprised by how obvious it seems at times. There's a doll, horses, automatic weapons which made me think "people were surprised by the ending?" However it is quite an effective ending and the image of the...thing is quite poignant. It's probably best if you were living in a cave, or you're 13 and never saw the movie, been spoiled...or seen that episode of the Simpsons.

While it does have the occasional action, its really surprising the film completely draws you in simply by talking. Similar to walking in someone's house and feeling the need to browse, you get interested and drawn in by the ape-run world. The only minor distraction is that the apes tend to be fairly similar to the next one and their mouths aren't exactly the most articulate but again, minor distractions.

It's definately worth a watch and you should check it out and the 35th Anniversary seems appropriate...that is if Fox decides on a 40th Anniversary Blu-Ray/HD-DVD release.