This is truly a soldier's film, capturing in a microcosm of film everything which is horrible about war, from the disdain of the field grade officers whose lives aren't in danger, to the horrific decisions and life that the soldiers endured. A prior reviewer explained the inability to capture the reality of the bridge scene, especially given the budget of this film. It certainly caputures everything else about being a soldier and this insane expenditure of men's lives for no reasonable purpose.

As for the language, it's very mild by soldier standards. I spent a year in Vietnam, and the language we used was far worse, and used in almost every sentence. I doubt profanity emerged first with the Vietnam war, and it's probably been inherent in warriors for thousands of years.

The story itself focuse on a private who has to make an almost impossible decision at the beginning of the film, killing the only other survivor of his platoon, to prevent the man from suffering. It represents every impossible decision which soldiers have been faced with for centuries. War is not fought by civilized values, and this film displays that reality, and why soldier don't say much about what they did in wars.

The experiences harden the private, and make him willing to do virtually anything to escape the madness which was trying to advance through this forest, but he's such a good soldier that he keeps getting promoted, as he keeps surviving, despite his anti-authoritarian attitude and contempt for officers, the Army, and most things.

I really identified with this film. Unlike Saving Private Ryan, it doesn't have the huge flaw of a caricature (the corporal clerk who wastes so much time in that film). Everyone in When Trumpets Fade is very real. The horrors of combat itself are very well done, and the general horror of that campaign are well displayed. We see the insanity of attacking into ranged artillery fire. We see the indifference of higher officers who don't care what is impossible, as they simply pass on insane orders of their superiors to their subordinates, who are the ones who will die.

It's as good as any war film I've ever seen. Only a WWII veteran of that battle could comment on certain aspects of the film. I noted one reviewer thought it was absurd that a whistle was used to start an advance. I'm not so sure. Often the military does things which make no sense.

As a war veteran, however, I found the film virtually flawless, in what it displays about war, and about soldiers, and from what I know about that battle, it does a great job of generally capturing the horrors of the Hurtgen Forest.