This movie is ranked the 7th best or 12th best movie of all time, depending on which list you read, and usually #1 in the Westerns category, even though it was not all that popular when released in 1956. Shot in northern Arizona's famous Monument Valley on the Navajo Reservation, Director John Ford and actor John Wayne created a huge iconic movie that has now influenced Westerns and movies in general for over 50 years. In the movie, they pretend they are in Texas.
  This film shows John Wayne at his best: moody or friendly, a loner or a family man, angry but kind and gentle, hard and soft, and so on. He plays his character nearly perfectly, and the relentless search that goes on for years is an overpowering theme throughout the movie. The ending is very touching and worth watching over and over.
  Trivia: in the film, Wayne says THAT'LL BE THE DAY  many times. After seeing the movie, Buddy Holley wrote the song with the same title. Also: at the end of the film, Wayne stands on the porch alone, holding his right elbow with his left arm across his stomach, a clear tribute to Harry Carey Sr., who was Wayne's favorite actor, and whose wife Olive, and son Harry Jr. (both are IN this film)were behind the camera watching. It was a trademark gesture of Carey Sr. in other films. And Debbie, played by Natalie Wood, is played by Natalie Woods younger sister as a little girl at the very beginning. The rest of the supporting cast is loaded up with stars that we all know and love.
  In America, we knew that all of the West did not look at all like this spectacular, grand scenery, but the rest of the world, particularly England, latched on to these images, and to this day they believe this is what the West is like. (see the cover on the Led Zeppelin DVD  HOW THE WEST WAS WON, as an example.) If you go to Monument Valley for a tour, you can stand in numerous spots in the area, and realize this is exactly where they shot this scene in the movie from. Or a host of other movies, such as STAGECOACH, SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON, FORT APACHE...even 2001, A SPACE ODESSY was partly shot there.
  Overall, a great, iconic, spectacle of a Western and dramatic movie that has a well deserved high ranking in the minds of tens of millions of movie watchers worldwide. I have always given it 5 stars!