Let me give you a little of stereotyping on the Japanese company man.  They go to work, they are bored for the whole day, accomplish a few tasks,  work late to appease their boss, once in a while go out and drink with the  co-workers (if 2~3 times a week means sometimes) and go home and hopefully  catch their kids still awake if they're lucky.  Repeat same tasks  tommorrow.
No wonder they wear strictly starched collars and seem like  robots to most people.  They all look the same, dress the same and act the  same.  It is the Group mentality that permeates this.
Shohei Sugiyama is  in the same boat, but he wants more out of life than to spend his life  working for the company and filling out his spare time with the mundane  homelife.  So one day, on the subway, he spots a beautiful dancer and all  the emotions he locked away in his soul begins flowing out.  Soon, he joins  and secretly takes lessons to see the dancer every day.
However, the  dancer, Mai, has no interest in him.  While dance has opened up Shohei to  life and art, it has made Mai hard.  She is a professional dancer, under  the rigors of competition, politics and time ticking away.  She is the cold  person that Shohei has shed.  
In an American movie, Shohei and Mai would  have eventually learned that they loved each other and hooked up (like  Strictly Ballroom and The Cutting Edge), but in Shall we Dance, the  relationship becomes more genuine.  Shohei teaches Mai to become a person  again, not to take competitive dancing so seriously and Mai shows Shohei  that work, material possessions are not everything.  They need each other,  and later on, Shohei realizes that it not on a sexual level.
The other  characters are very good as well.  Tanaka plays an overweight beginner who  was forced to dance as exercise for his diabetes.  He is first painfully  shy but by the end, dance brings him out of his shell.  The other is Aoki,  the wig wearing Latino dancer wannabee.  He is deeper than we all first  make him out to be (as comic relief).  Dance is his life and he sees no  meaning beyond it.  It crushes him when he is embarrassed by a fellow  dancer and cannot show his face in the studio anymore.  The final  interesting character is his wife, who has accepted her domicility, only to  have it crashing down on her when her husband begins doing things without  her knowing about it.
Shall We Dance? is less about dancing and more  about what impact dance can have on peoples lives.  This is a movie that  focuses on the characters and puts interesting ballroom dance competitions  as a backdrop. It is a film full of life, but not of life easily found.  Try Shall we Dance?  I think you will be greatly rewarded by the time the  final credits roll around....Rating: B+