Alright, so the layout is as such, the movie is great, the acting is amazing!! Minus the younger brother, probably the worst acting I've ever seen, the only other part I can't stand about this movie is the animation, I start to watch the movie, Rex and Speed, played by Emile Hirsch, are in the car, and its so obvious that hes in front of a green screen, i mean, they didnt even remotely try to blend it in, and make it realistic, and i know, that this movie/show is kinda supposed to be like that, its just so cheesy it's almost unbearable.

Next, Speed is grown up a little, and he's finally a racer, he is in his car at the racetrack, and the graphics are just stunning, i love every part of that race scene, his car the track, the camera angles, everything, i just love it. At this point in the story, i forgive them for what i said before. He is then confronted by a man named Royalton, obviously a shady egotistical man, played by Roger Allam, he did a really good job with the part. He invited them to become partners, now this is where you get a peek at the history of Speed, how he became a racer and learn about who and what kind of person he is. After the much internal conflict, Speed respectfully declines which makes Royalton's true self come out. The acting and graphics throughout this whole scene was amazing, again, except for the kid.

Until it comes time to actually go off the track into the wild, when Speed enters the "forbidden race", i couldn't wait to see how it was gonna look, the second he got into the forest and the desert, i wanted to shoot myself to spare me from the 2 year old sketchbook animation, it looked like they had hot wheels on strings, especially the helicopters, barf. That's all that can be said about that.

So, Speed won the race and got entered into the grand prix, with help. At the start of it, the animation goes back to being thee amazing one of a kind thing, and they get stopped in id say a ravine, now here comes the fighting scene, something I could almost not bear to watch, now again, i know they were trying to give that speed racer old school vibe, but ughhhhhhh, terrible!!!!

Speed won the grand prix and the are on the stand celebrating, it looks like its in someones basement, they could of at least shown a few people in front of it, no, its just them on it, clapping their hands looking stupid, this is another part where I just wanted the younger speed(Nicholas Elia) to shut up.