Many people think that Alien Resurrection is the worst of the series. After all, just what did they do here? A comical romp through the Aliens theme park? This film runs like a comic book even more so than the other three and presents a massive challenge to the viewer, especially to the fan of the series, many of whom were disappointed by this fourth installment. This review is intended as a defense, in the hope that frowners may want to screen it again. It contains many spoilers for those who have not seen it.
First of all, Resurrection IS the weakest of the four, but in company so strong, that is not much of an insult. You have to give it up to the series for continually daring to do something different with each film, something that no other franchise can claim. And this certainly aids the continuity of the series, rather than detracting from it. Ripley gets closer and closer to the beast, each step leading her into darker and more psychologically terrifying places.
Resurrection is the most comical, tongue in cheek, seeming almost to mock the entire series; but simultaneously it is the most grotesque and emotionally twisted, besting even David Cronenburg's films in terms of intimately disturbing horror scenes. The mother theme reaches what must be its peak here, with the amazing near-end birthing scene and Ripley's symbolic vacuum killing of her child, the abortion to end all abortions. Also taken to new levels is the hallmark distrust of humanity, particularly that of men. Surving are a male who can only be described as a likeable neanderthal, a disabled human essentially fused with a machine, and the two lead protagonists, both of whom are female, non-human, and who show by far the most compassion in the film. Important also are the series' issues of trust, immediacy, loneliness, and sacrifice, which are not forgotten here. Resurrection brings self-confrontation to the forefront (as it would tend to, one imagines).
Essentially, with a story as surprisingly inexhaustable as Dan O' Bannon's original Alien concept, it would be a waste to try and rehash old formulas to bring in sales, and I think it is wonderful that the producers of the films were able to keep it fresh. I was initially shocked at what appeared to be a horrible irreverence toward the mastery of the first three  films (yes, THREE, don't tell me I have to write a defense of Alien3 as well) but cooled off after opening night, thought about the continuing story, watched it again, and was mesmerized. How about it? Rent the DVD, turn it up loud and watch the amazing stock of stars and character actors keep this series up there at the TOP of the sci-fi jungle (mythological sci-fi western operas nonwithstanding).