Family Guy previously won my vote of approval because it made me laugh at the audacity of the characters, all of whom are the prime exemplars of dysfunction.  What I laughed at was the utter incredulousness of it all--that Peter would try to seduce Luke Perry, that Stewie is obsessed with matricide, or just the fact that Brian is an erudite lush of a dog.  Seasons 1-3 were gems for the way they sucked you into that crazed world, but season 4, while sharing some of that charm and caustic humor, tends to fail by pushing the audacity of the characters to senseless levels or by falling on some of their signatures and effectively turning them into schticks.

Disc 1 is brilliant and arguably one of the funniest string of episodes released in the show's career.  Believe it or not, the show's actually one of the smarter animated series for the way it can weave in so many pop culture references and make them funny even if the audience may not know the reference itself.  Episodes like "PTV" and "Brian Goes Back to College" do this with ease, keeping the laughs rolling incessantly.  But the show loses coherence when you hit the second disc, where the story is thinner than usual, you can see the punch lines coming from a mile away, and they rely repeatedly on gimmicks, most notably the flashback.  One episode, "Patriot Games," I found particularly insipid and (I can't believe I'm saying this) offensive.  Here, Stewie pummels Brian mercilessly in a violent sequence that elicits only horror at the fact that the writers and actors would find the idea even remotely humorous.  The protracted, pornographic violence of the episode combined with the leaden jokes and skits made me actually revile the show.

I haven't kept up with the episodes in season 5, but I hope this DVD release doesn't spell the nadir or (worse yet) the downfall of this series.  Seeing as how it was originally cancelled and resurrected twice before on the power of an enraptured audience, it would be especially sad to see the show die slowly through its own increasing mediocrity.