Every afternoon before she returns from school I search my daughter Emma's bedroom for anything that might contribute to her moral decay.  And every day throughout the years my fears were joyfully unfounded as I rarely had found anything morally questionable.  My little princess has consistently maintained a clean, morally upright personal character.  That is, of course, until I discovered this PG-13-rated DVD in the back of one of her drawers, conveniently hidden beneath some of her Bible study materials.

Never in her life have I been so disappointed in my otherwise bright, beautiful daughter.

When she returned home from school that afternoon I confronted her wide-eyed and furious about my findings.  She denied it was hers at first, but eventually admitted to receiving this item as a gift, claiming she had only seen parts of it at her friend's house and liked what she saw but had not yet seen the entire thing.  I went ballistic, yelling until I was physically weeping and red in the face as I told her how seeing something like this (as I firmly held the "13 Going on 30: Fun & Flirty Edition" DVD in front of her face) would ruin her mind and scar her for life.  Then I grounded her for two months to hammer the point home.  She tried to explain to me that the movie was "not evil," that it was "tastefully made" and that I would not object to any of its content.  "Right," I scoffed.  Then, confiscating the "13 Going on 30: Fun & Flirty Edition" DVD I smirked in disgusted amusement as I thought, "she'll watch this DVD over my dead body."

About two weeks later, with nothing better to do I took a deep breath and decided to watch this DVD.  I was pleasantly surprised at this light-hearted romp into the mind of an awkward 13-year-old girl desperate to grow up and be on her own in an adult's world.  Jennifer Garner is a fine actress and deserves the accolades she is apparently receiving for this film.  Mark Ruffalo provides a sort of moral compass in this film that is quite a joy to watch.  While I am repulsed by some of the attitudes in this film (girls should not be speaking directly to boys), this film really is not as bad as I had feared.

My sweet little angel is still grounded (a little over one month to go!) but I will start letting her out of her room to eat with the rest of the family and use the restroom at night.  My precious little angel is growing up to be such a beautiful princess!  I love you, Emma!