City Island fell into and out of my local movie complex in pretty short order.  It is a pity because this is a sweet, funny, and charming movie that I would have enjoyed on the big screen.  The dysfunctional family overcoming a comedy of errors story line did strike me as a bit generic but the location, good acting and a good comedic touch by the director (Raymond De Felitta) transformed this into a very enjoyable movie.

Location: City Island, a part of New York City, is a little island in the Long Island Sound just off of the Bronx. It is connected to the mainland by a short bridge.  Like Sheepshead Bay in Brooklyn, it is a little enclave where New Yorkers find a little respite from city living on hot summer days and nights.  It was always a fun place to go when I was a kid, and as a young man, for dates and seafood since I was not in a position to head for "the Cape" or the Hamptons for a more expensive night or weekend on the town.  The movie portrays accurately the pretty marked drawing line between lifelong residents and the tourists and newly arrived.

The Plot/Acting:  Andy Garcia and Julianna Margulies play Vince and Joyce Rizzo. Vince is a prison guard at Rikers Island who dreams of becoming an actor.  Joyce is his wife who has had her share of dreams deferred and who is busy dealing with their two kids and wondering if Vince is slipping away and having an affair.  Their teenage son is enamored with large women and desperately tries to hide his passion for a large school at school and the very large woman who lives across the street.  Their daughter is, supposedly, the bright star in the family, but is leading a secret life of her own.

As the story moves forward we see how each carefully guarded secret causes everyone else to misinterpret what the others are doing.  That does sound rather generic to me and perhaps to anyone reading this review.  However, Garcia played Vince so well and was so endearing that any notions of this being a generic film soon slipped away. Margulies was also excellent and the relationship between the two of them, and the whole family dynamic came across as funny, natural, and `real'.  Alan Arkin has a small role as an aging, bitter acting coach and he plays it to the hilt.  Similarly, Emily Mortimer plays another acting student that Vince forms a very strong bond with.

As the misunderstandings mount so to does the comedy and turmoil.  The resolution is one that may be expected but it played out very well.

Extras:  There really isn't much in the way of extras here.

Conclusion:  City Island should entertain you and keep you laughing and nodding throughout.  It is well worth seeing.