It's damned clear from the opening shot (the American flag on the moon, Neil Armstrong's "one small step speech" in the background and the footprints of said astronought and chums) what this is about. Aliens attack the world? Nope. Aliens attack America and get what's coming to them... as if we couldn't guess. Yep, it's that big budget remake of all those B-Movies, with lots of anthems and "God bless America" moments. For everyone in America, this will doubtless be the feelgood blockbuster of the year... for the rest of the world, it's probably the biggest, most expensive lump of cheese yet concieved in the movie industry.
The story is nice and simple. Some shamefully mean and nasty aliens descend from the skies, promptly attacking (curiously we see attacks on America and... well, nowhere else, because of course nowhere else would really matter if it was destroyed) and causing mass destruction. The ramifications of this worldwide devastation are never considered, with a general theme of "America will fix it" running through. It's jingoistic to sickening extremes, with the President delivering a nice independence day speech and getting in a plane alongside the normal people (for people read Americans) and attacking those nasty aliens with all the American firepower they can muster. Damned inspiring stuff... if you're American.
Of course there's the nice touch that Mr. Average, "Russell Case" (often drunken crop duster who claims to have been abducted by aliens) saves the day with the President nobly paving the way for him. Aw. The whole "Pres'-Helps-Save-The-Day" thing wouldn't get a full blown movie plot until the equally sickening Air Force One, but here it's a little subplot and still an annoying one. Let's be honest... Presidents are puppets, always out of harm's way, and NEVER likely to get stuck into the action. Now I've had my go at that subject, I'll continue.
America of course leads the way in saving the world, showing how to destroy the alien beasties by bringing down their ships (and, presumably, crushing miles of land beneath, and causing vast dust clouds, similar to an asteroid collision? Oh well). In fact, the only footage of "the rest of the world dealing with the problem" is a few clips of stereotypical foreigners. For the English we have the likes of "crikey, aliens are invading! Better put the kettle on" and so forth. Nobody seems to mind that aliens invading the world actually involves the rest of the world. Oh well.
Anyway, if you can swallow the absurd jingoism, is it actually a good film? Well, Jeff Goldblum - yet again playing his terminal character, the scatterbrained noble genius, but he does it well and is amusing in all his scenes. Bill Puttman is a questionably brave and strong president, probably ranking above the rest of the rather over-comical cast (Will Smith, love him or hate him, does what he does best - yell, do action scenes and come out with one-liners). And the script, oh the script... cheese left right and centre, with aliens whose motives are as simple and clear cut as the film's intention: to make a LOT of money. Which it shamelessly did.
The effects are, of course, grand and good. The flying saucers look far meaner than their wobbly ancestors, and the aliens are just as tenticle-clad and slimy as you'd expect. It's all very predictable, yet pleasing in it's reliability. And of course it's entertaining throughout, delivering nothing but eye-pleasing action and lots of loud noises. Yes, despite it's irritating themes, it's fun.
It's well worth the title of blockbuster, and is truly suited to those with brains firmly switched off. So I can watch it and like it if I don't think about it - and some of it's moments (Puttman's speech, from a certain perspective - and Russell Case's delightful final moments: "Hello boys, I'm back!" and "Payback's a b**ch aint it!" for example) are touching and funny. So there is definitely fun to be had, and it is, as much as it pains me to say it, definitely worth watching it.
For non-Americans it will prove a guilty pleasure, and for those for whom it was made, it will prove a heart-melting flag waver and no mistake. So watch it, laugh at or with it, and enjoy it anyway.