Mr. Mungiu obviously believes in tears, even though Bucharest, like its big brother from the east, did not. But everyone is entitled to an opinion, or at least as long as the intention is not malicious. But herein lies the problem. His overuse of dramatic lincence to achieve the highest impact is highly suspect.

It's sad that people form an opinion about a country and an era based on a fictional 'work of art'. I would be first to admit, this is still preferable than forming an opinion based on Fox News clips, but still...

It wouldn't be much of a problem if Romania, it's culture and history would be widely known. As it is, this movie had an impact far beyond the normal audience and it reached people who have no direct knowledge of these things and may be quite gullible. In communist Romania, all we were shown of American culture were great depression movies, John Waybe and mindless musicals. Now, what we see about Romania is the Numa Numa song and.. this.

Many situations, dialogues, decors in the movie are exaggerated for artistic effect. The entire premise is illogical. This would be OK; after all it's not a documentary. But I couldn't help not to notice all the inconsistencies, which present themselves in every scene. I will just list a few, from memory, but there are many more. Before I proceed, I just want to share my opinion that it's inconceivable that this movie has been awarded the Palme d'Or with all the shortcomings. It just serves to further discredit this award. Furthermore, it is inconcievable that the French government would show this movie in schools. Of course, when your people are rioting in the streets asking for justice, it may serve a purpose to show them what an alternative social order would be like (yeeeaaahhh, scary them with a little communism!).

So, here's my (incomplete) list, in no particular order:

No doctor would risk prison to get 'payment in nature'. It's just absurd. I have heard of such a case when it was asked for, in addition to money, but it was a one on one situation, no witnesses. And I know of many, many cases, where nothing else, other than money was required to perform the procedure. It just doesn't make sense to ask for such a thing when there can be corroborative testimony. Or maybe going to prison for 10 years is not bad enough, so you might just as well go for 20?

The doctor risks impregnating the (still) unimpregnated woman. Was he looking to have a new client down-the road?

The procedure that is performed is also quite suspect and puts the patient at great risk. A doctor would likely chose a different procedure (which was widely used at the time), where he would provoke a 'spontaneous' abortion, and then the patient would have to go to a hospital to have a proper surgical procedure.

When the girls make reservation at a hotel where the doctor was required to show his ID, he goes on and takes the risk, rather than just turning back and requiring that reservation at the proper hotel be made. Absurd!
He does not turn around and run, as one might expect, even when he finds out the pregnancy is so advanced that he could be charged with murder! If this would be a Eugen Ionescu's play, we'd know to expect the most absurd situations. But, since it all takes place in the Evil Empire of Communism, the audience goes ahead and believes anything.

No woman (not to mentions that she was 'in love'!) would sacrifice her virtue to save a friend from... what? Having a baby????

We witness a gathering of professionals (doctors) in a small apartment. Even the lowliest of labourers would have better accommodation. The dialogue is also stupid and bland 'for effect' . Rest assured, nobody would talk like this, especially at a celebration party.

The decors show abject misery, but you should ask yourself the question: shouldn't two students take a bit of care of their apartment, no matter how poor they were? Sure they would and most were. One could not find american cigarettes in Romania, but cleaning supplies and paint was still available!!

We see despicable attitudes from all, except the two girls. How likely is that? What society produced these soft spoken, well mannered girls if everywhere the movie takes you, all you see is filth: the policemen, the hotel personnel, etc... You should know, even in communist Romania a policeman drinking on the job would risk severe penalties.

One of the girls is riding the bus and does not have a ticket and takes one from a stranger. We used to try this trick when we were students, but always made sure we had a ticked in our pocket that we could punch if the controller showed up. Hoping that a stranger would help you... well what happened to the people in previous scenes. I thought everything and everyone was rotten... hmmm... maybe just the movie. This shows that the director really does not want to pay attention to detail, for the want of a cheap effect.

OK, I could continue, but I hope that by now you get the idea..

P.S. I want to add a note in regard to the state of disrepair of many buildings shown in this movie... don't forget, this movie was filmed 20 years after the fall of the E.E.C. (Evil Empire of Communism). In the '70's, most of them were new and not all that bad. In the 00's, it is of course all that much easier to create a negative image, especially since they have not been maintained at all in the new era of democratic freedom (consider just the fact that 2 million romanian workers, especially construction workers, now work in western europe) Q.E.D.