Let me start by saying that while I am a "History Buff", I'm no expert on Ancient Greece. I'm sure there are those out there that know enough about the subject to find fault with this essay, but I am not among them. This is another fascinating study presented (and largely researched) by Mrs. Bettany Hughes. And while I am a fan of all of her work to date, this along with her study on Athens are my two favorites. Rich in detail, "The Spartans" is a logical and concise walk down the timeline from the Trojan war (the "other" Spartans... who knew?)to the fall of Athens and the ultimate demise of Sparta. There is such a large and fascinating trove of detail about the Spartan way of life as well as their history that I came away with a much fuller sense of who these people really were and feeling that I could watch it all over again and pick up things that went by me on the initial run through. Even the highly stylized reenactment sections (usually a low point in these kinds of productions) are compelling and "in charachter" with the rest of the work. And the soundtrack is somehow eerily appropriate for the "exotic" subject. As always, Hughes is spot on and fully on top of the subject matter. Her command & passion for the topics explored are always impressive and are a big part of what makes her work so special. Never more so than here. I know some people seem to have issues with an historical essay being presented by a beautiful lady(?). It really doesn't bother me at all. She is clearly all about the work involved in putting these documentaries together and she is without peer at making it informative and entertaining. She is not just some pretty talking head added to "spice it all up". And as with all, of her work, the on location theme of the study makes it visually exquisite on a whole other level as well. Along with a great look at Spartan ruins and locales, the extraordinary beauty of the countryside is well represented. So in closing, if you are like me and have the hunger to learn more about the world that shaped the world we live in today, this is an excellent place to start. Bravo, Bettany and your highly competent team. Keep them coming.....