It's not the slapstick pranks, like falling off of the roof while hanging Christmas lights that make this movie (although they're funny); it's the subtle jokes, like Cousin Eddie wearing a black dickey under a white V-neck sweater.  It's these jokes that make National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation not only a pleasure to watch once, but one to watch every Christmas season.  So, if you appreciate a good laugh with a smattering of good will, make Christmas Vacation part of your family tradition.
  The movie opens with a car-ride sing-a-long while heading into the backcountry to harvest the family Christmas tree.  Mom and Dad sing enthusiastically while the children roll their eyes.  It's the relatable experiences like this one paired with the far-fetched antics of the Griswold family that make this National Lampoon's installment a success.  After marching in waste-high snow for hours, Clark finds their glorious tree only to realize that he has forgotten a saw. Gaffes like this cause Clark's ideal holiday to fall apart.
  The progressively deeper dong of the family door bell announces the arrival of the extended family- Clark's parents and in-laws.  Their bickering is heard even before the door is opened and stories of bunions and boils spill over into the Griswold household.  Each of these characters adds a little more chaos and humor, but none as much as the surprise guest- Cousin Eddie.
  Eddie and his rag-tag family pull up in what Clark describes as a "tenement of wheels."  Eddie and his RV are a source of some of the best laughs in this film: whether it's Eddie's black dickie worn under a white v-neck sweater or his need to empty the RV's septic tank into the street sewer.  My favorite line from Eddie is when he informs Clark that he can't go sledding because the government had to change the metal plate in his head to a plastic one because every time his wife fired up the microwave, he'd `collapse, wet himself, and forget who he was.'
After a visit to the local sledding hill, we follow the Clark as he does last minute Christmas shopping, finishes affixing 150,000 light bulbs to his roof, prepares Christmas dinner, and reads The Night Before Christmas.  All events most Christians can relate to.  Of course, none of these go quite as planned, but that's what creates the humor.
  Underlying all of the hilarity are some serious themes- Eddie is impoverished and can't buy his kids gifts, Clark has put a deposit down on a swimming pool banking on a Christmas bonus that never comes, and the family seems ready to fall apart.  Maybe the Griswolds aren't so fictitious after all.  These moments don't detract from the humor though.  They simply add that special Christmas spirit and good will we look for at this time of year.
  So, if you're looking for a movie the whole family can enjoy while running here and there during the hectic Christmas season, try National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation.  You won't be disappointed.