-----------------

Quote:  "Try putting up a 'War Is Over' billboard in Iran, Yoko. I doubt they'd show the same patience for your shenanigans as the United States of America."

-----------------

You are SO WRONG.  To me, that's the greatest thing in the film--the power of simple, decent, direct, brilliant sanity.  John to Nixon:  "Declare peace."

I always wished that at the beginning of this senseless war in Iraq somebody like John would have led the resistance to the US.  What if US troops had been met with masses of Iraqi people with T-shirts and posters and chants, and not a single gun, saying "You are not the boss of me" ?  Tell the world and make that the debate!  Instead, it's all been about guns and force and submission, and NOTHING about ideas and mutual respect and SANITY.

Britain and the US, with their foundation in the Magna Carta, should have been the two countries in the world best able to show how reason, common sense, and respect for the rights of all people--each person--can bring enlightened, inclusive self-government.  The tragedy is we've forgotten HOW it's done.  We've forgotten "of the people, for the people and by the people."  We've given the power of the people back to kings, who just can't do the job.  A gun is not a heart.  A gun is not a mind.  A gun is not sane.

Compare two American trials:  John Peter Zenger in 1735, and WMD Here Plowshare Clowns in 2006.  Look them up.  One gave us freedom of the press, the other lost us a chance at nuclear sanity.  The difference?  What the jury felt its job was.  What we have lost is the power of the people to judge the facts AND the law, the job of using their own conscience and reason, even if it means finding for a defendant who has clearly broken the law.

We have lost the Ctrl Alt Del of common sense and cannot get past a government blue screen of death.

The government enacts laws in the name of the people.  When the law is applied, the people via a jury should be able to decide if it's right, if it works, in practice, in that instance.  "Does it float?"  Ask the people.  Reality check.  Reality balance.  That's why juries show up so often in the Constitution.  It brings the power of the people full circle.  It's the JOB of the people to question authority.  The power of the jury is still intact in the Constitution, it's just been lost in the courts.  Now in California I can't serve on a jury unless I agree beforehand to uphold a law I may find faulty.  The same is true elsewhere.  It's wrong.

A king has no hands but yours.  The power really is in our hands, each one of us, if we only saw it.  It could be as simple as "Declare peace."  It should be that simple.  It IS that simple.  Brillliant!  John saw it.

I miss John.