I'm sitting here trying to find a way to effectively summarize the plot of  Don Coscarelli's cult horror classic...and I can't. What I will say is  this: don't expect Alien/Halloween style horror.  This one works on a  completely different level.  The plot holes, the gaps in common sense, and  the surreality of the world in which _Phantasm_ occurs are what is  "frightening".  Don't expect too much in the way of endearing  characters; they're flat as a board with plastic lines and even more  plastic acting, but that doesn't really get in the way of the movie's  enjoyment all too much; it's the environment, the profound sense of place  that Coscarelli has(by the end of the movie, you'll know the layout of  Morningside Cemetery, the Funeral Parlor/Mausoleum, and Jody's house as if  you had actually lived in these structures,) as well as his wonderful  cinematography; every shot is absolutely gorgeous and takes full advantage  of the distortion/fuzz quality that film possessed in 1979.  
The music  is superb, fitting the slightly ridiculous, euphoric feel of the  photography and story perfectly, tinkling, vintage synths and gothic chorus  put through a kind of vo-coder-esque electronic filter.  
Some cult  movies truly do not deserve their cult status, this I will admit, but  _Phantasm_ does.  It is imminently watchable despite its flaws, over and  over again somehow fascinating; you're always discovering something new or  having a new revelation to pertain the "what the hell was that?"  that was running through your mind during your last viewing. And...who  can't love Angus Scrimm's ominous presence as the ubiquitous and ever  short-spoken Tall Man?
Though I have no intention of giving the twist  ending(s)(there are two, technically) away, I will say that you may feel a  tad disappointed with their sudden execution the first time you see it, but  in retrospect and especially in consecutive viewings, the twist ending  lends a bit of sense to the otherwise non-sensical flow of the plot.  
Note: Okay, I lied, I'm going to spoil the ending below.
The notion  the entire film is an adolescent boy's fantastical nightmare lends some  artistic credibility to Coscarelli's admittedly convoluted science  fiction/horror storyline, the things that don't make sense(e.g. the  blackout after which all of the characters are inexplicably transported to  different sections of the cemetery and funeral parlor, and Jody's moving of  the boulders that are way too heavy for any human being to even budge)  suddenly are put in a context that, while admittedly a tad cop-outesque,  saves the movie on the whole. 
Art film, horror film, fantasy film?  Hell if I know, really.  Just see it...you'll like it.