I've been waiting for some time for "Make Way For Tomorrow" to become available on DVD. Movies of this caliber should not take so long to be released to a waiting public. My first and only encounter with this movie was when I watched it on Turner Classics. I was quite taken with it.

The story as it is seen on the screen captures the essence of human emotions. It shows on the one hand how deeply in love two elderly people are. Whereas, on the other hand the movie shows how cold, unfeeling, indifferent and out of touch with the feelings of their parents the adult children of this same couple are. They are so self-concerned about their own lives and pursuits that they are virtually oblivious to the needs of their parents who are on a quest to stay together as a couple. I will leave it to you to find out if they succeed in doing so.

I wish that the movie industry would wake up to the needs of those who are desirious of seeing more of these fine movies even though the demand may not be so great - but who fault is that? Maybe if they were to invest some time and energy into advertising them the way that they do the newer movies they just might find that these movies have a wide appeal to many people who just did not know that they were out there. There's a whole new generation of people who have not viewed such impelling, well made, touching movies as this one.

If you like old classics such as this movie you should visit [...] (Turner Classic Movies) and vote for some of these movie classics to be released on DVD. I personally have voted for the release of the following:

This Love of Ours - starring Merle Oberon and Claude Rains
Never Say Goodbye - starring Rock Hudson
A Stolen Life - starring Bette Davis (watch the trailer)

The follwing movies have recently been released:
Our Vines Have Tender Grapes - starring Edward G. Robinson and Margaret O'Brien
Storm Warning - starring Ronald Reagan and Ginger Rogers

Help bring these movies out of the Vaults of archived classics and into our homes.