I think there is a certain order in which to watch the 4 flicks included in vol. XVI. You begin with The Corpse Vanishes because it is from season 1 and is the earliest example of the patented MST3K technique available. As you move on to dics's 2, 3 and 4 you will experience the various changes that evolved as the show evolved.

The Corpse Vanishes opens with the short serial film "Radar Men From The Moon" which I thought was pretty entertaining all by itself but of course you get your supplemental wisecracks from Joel and co.,..."signal your intent" as a slow-moving space ship jockeys for take off. Loved the space man costumes. But the main course, of course is the Corpse Vanishes starring Bela Lugosi as a polite bride killer foiled by perky cub reporter Pat Hunter played by Luana Walters. Walters got me through this creaking slow boat to China seeming to be the only character with a pulse! Joel does get some good lines in: "dr. Lorenze is a doctor himself but he has no license to practise"-Joel:"making him a quack" and Crow: "how do I know the rest isn't a cockeyed nightmare?"-Crow:"or a nighteyed cockmare" but I was REALLY put to sleep with first season's Josh Weinstein voicing Tom Servo as if he were in a club-bludgeoned trance. I could not WAIT to return to a non-season 1 episode to get my Murphy/Servo back! Joel treats us with a perfect Lugosi impression which, actually, isn't THAT hard to duplicate but still-very fun! The intermission skits were dull as dishwater with the exception of Joel and the mad's invention exchange(check the related media box 4 above).I did like Shout Factory's inclusion of two trailers for The Middle Man(had not heard of this and the actress reminds me of Janeane Garofalo) and Parker Lewis Can't Lose sets. My overall feeling for this disc is the short and the feature were good enough on their own to watch even without the MST-freshmen quips and delivery of, but they DO get in some good zingers here and there so you really can't lose either way you slice it.

Disc #2-Warrior of the Lost World
Host segments/all good and Warrior from season 5 is artfully, skillfully, comically(of course)and masterfully skewered by Joel, Tom and Crow. TWO bonus features-1. an enlightening interview with Warrior director David Worth (less) and 2. production stills described by David. Many many laughs are to be had listening to the crew jag this film and Crow's impersonations of a Scot race car announcer, Charles Nelson Reilly and Redd Foxx are as accurate as can be. Joel,Tom and Crow's mimicking of Donald Pleasance, Ginty and Persis all are wonderfully executed too! Tom's introduction speech in skit 1 is hilarious. The slot car skit ("HOT SLOT BOTS!!") ("I couldn't beat Margaret Dumont!"-Servo)and the piano lounge/Crow as Mrs. Warrior skit are priceless. Clayton and Frank's Square Master demo, perfectly excellent too-I especially love the writing for this with Dr. Forrester narrating as Frank gets all hot and sweaty using his new exercising tool. Good Joel episode...for those in doubt. His and Tom's Scope/Robitusson dissertation in the dance club scene is awe-inspiring it's so professionally and cooly delivered. Entertainingly funny from start to finish. Warrior of the Lost World theme music though-bleeeeeeeech!

Santa Claus also from season 5 I didn't like first time through. I gave it another whirl and the 2nd time through I have to admit it WAS funnier. Not the film-the boys ribbing of. "Santa! Santa! Hey Kringle,snap out of it!!"-Crow. When Satan's assistant Pitch is seen shivering on a freezing rooftop waiting to sabatoge Santa coming to deliver his bag of toys, his teeth chattering, his arms shaking from the cold, Mike says "come on Santa, I need some stuff man! Just a taste man!!" The first time through, I thought the film just dragged so much that even the boys' zingers just kind of sat there but with a second viewing,everything seemed to fall in to place much better. The bonus feature "Santa Claus conquers the Devil:A 50-year Retropsective"is excellent.

Last disc Night of the Blood Beast was the jewel in this box, for me.
From season #7, it opens with a short film called Once Upon a Honeymoon that is pure delight! This is MST3K in high gear as far as I'm concerned. The film is a fresh nostalgic dollop of sugar, in color and Mike and co., tweak its good natured by-gone zest with aplomb.
If disc 4 contained JUST this short film and nothing else I'd be very content. But then, yes then, comes......Night of the Blood Beast. "be vairwee vairwee qwiet, we're hunting bwud beasts eh eh eh "-Tom. The crew is REALLY sharp this movie-like their energy level is a high as I've yet encountered AND you can tell they're having FUN doing it, not just reciting the lines ala Corpse. The on-going 'Steve' jokes/the constant mimicking of the photographer girl/"what's happening in there?"-"oh Big Spring dance."-Tom/"ladder that same evening"-Mike. When one of the characters in the movie says "snarf farms" the tears were rolling down my cheeks! "you sly boots!" This episode of MST3K has the highest ratio of dead-on jokes per square inch of any episode I've yet watched. I also noticed the guys love of food placement mentions throughout the movie which I'm sure goes on during other episodes too but this is the first time I saw the trend. "My brownies are gone!" "There's gotta be a Pizza Hut nearby!" "...oh and snacks and brews and a couple of sandwiches...." "this was in my tuna" "wait! there's one last piece of carrot cake and I'm gonna grab it!" one of the characters in the movie says "Lights out?" and Mike thinks he's said "loin chop??" "you think I get hush puppies and cole slaw with these?"  Pringles and egg salad .....the list is long! But be that as it may, Night of the Blood Beast and its superb opening short film scores very very high in the land of MST3K, and as I say, the jewel of this set, with Warrior of the Lost World coming in at a solid #2. Corpse is a good episode that gives the fan a taste of early MST style and Santa Claus, after a slow start, only gets better with each viewing.