I had the chance to watch "A bugs life" and "Antz" at the same day, and so I was able to compare the two films, the CG but also the story.
First of, when seeing the two films in cinema back when they were released, I thought that "A bugs life" was a little better from a CG (computer graphics) point of view.
But now that I've seen the two DVDs, I'm absolutely sure that PDI has created a film that looks a lot better than Pixar's "A bugs life". First of, look carefully at how the facial features and the mouth of the antz and other insects are animated. It's just amazing and very life-like. The fact that the ants have teeth (which is pretty funny by the way) also adds a lot to the quality of their facial expressions (the ants in "A bugs life have teeth, too).
Then, the ants in "Antz" are brown while the ants in "A bugs life" are blue (???). Also, everything in Antz has a lot more detail than it has in "A bugs life".
Anyway, CG might be one part, but the story is clearly more important...
AntZ has a very unique story, which is funny but also very clever. "A bugs life" on the other hand has a very ordinary story, very typical for a kids movie but it comes nowhere near the quality of other Disney movies like Mulan. It is funny at times, but the story is neither deep nor is it especially smart.
And last but not least, when I watched AntZ in the cinema back when it was released, there was a little kid and his mum sitting next to me. During the battle scene, the kid asked his mum "are they dead" (pointing at the dead ant bodies) and the mum said "no, they're just sleeping".
SO: This is definitely not a kids movie. It has been rated PG for obvious reasons. Don't let the cute look fool you into thinking this film is suitable for your kids. And even if they're not shocked by the depictions of violence, they will most definitely not get what the story is all about. 
Oh, and about the voice actingt: Couldn't have been better. At times, I wasn't so sure if Sharon Stone was the right actress to dub the princess, but even Silvester Stalone does a good job here...
So go and see that movie... don't think of it as a kids movie, thing of it as an adult movie that not only tells a story but that also should make you think. Don't think of ants, think of the people around you.