No No. No.

I think there is a problem with some critics and some people reviewing this film even on this Amazon film review?

Please look at this movie with a open mind, do not compare with Batman,  Eartha Kitt, Selina Kyle, Michelle Pfeiffer, Julie Newmar, Lee Meriwether, Gotham City.  The Anti hero.. etc.  That is not the notion of this film, it wants to leave that.

People have miss judged this film wrongly, it is not set in the Batman Universe or anything like it, please get that fact.

It is not suppose to be inline with any of the DC Hero/villain genre please get that.

It is inspired by Bob Kanes, Batman Character, but it never said it is a part of that world.

Once Warner gets past that barrier as it has, after the main credits it can do anything it wants with the Character it can,  They can make her a God damn alien for all I care.

As for the film, if it was that bad it would not have made it into the top 10 at the Box office, am I right, actually it got to number 3, which is still damn good. So lets get that out of the way.

It is a good enjoyable film I am not saying the script is brilliant, even some of the best films have not so good scripts,  where they get complex and loose the point.

Reading from some of the negative reviews I see people thinking, that they believe it should be a serious film dark and mysterous like Tim Burtons Batman.

Also Catwoman of the comic is of social missfit and uses the cat notion as a mask of

criminal function, as is batman uses his theme for the same Iconic function, as does Poison Ivy, Robin.  They don't have any trates that are of the namesake at all.

Halle Berry has done a really good Job as Catwoman, she really has researched the character of the cat well, its movements the posturising, the free spirit and the senses as well as the climbing and squeezing through things and the fluid movements in action.  This is something not one of the other characters of the Batman movies have done, simply because it is not the same.

This is a light hearted entertainment for all the "Family," it is certainly not a pigeon hold Genre movie to fit in with Spiderman, X-men Superman, Hulk, Punisher, Batman.

These films follow the comics, this one does not, and that is just the success of what it

has done to move the name out of that as a stand alone story.

For the die hard fans,  I don't think they really understand that this film has done them

a saticfation rather than a dissaticfation, by leaving the Character unscathed, as

another movie can be made "based on the Comic book Character" and not inspired by it.  This is two different things.

Sharon Stones Character may have been a bit wooden but it was good to see her again

and scrapping with Halle.

This film is more mystical based film, which leaves more open for a possible sequal.

I see this film Like I saw Yancy Butler in Witchblade and that was what???..

Wait and see things will be made clearer and that is where I get the comparisons from.

Both are based on mystery and spiritual belief of a linage dating back thousands of years.  Both Characters also had this mysterious mentor who knows more about the gift than the bearer does themself.

There is a lot of promise for the film when it reaches DVD.

Also remember when critics write bad reviews, it usually has a opposite effect on the reader, this adds curiosity and makes people see the film to see what the commotion is about. so negative effects has opposite effects.

I should know I have written articles for  national/ local newspapers and have letters printed in comic books as well.

Negativity brings in good reading, believe me it works.

..

Chris J. Ng.  BA(hons) Fine Arts, MA Timebased Media.