LAWMAN is a gory, nihilistic Western melodrama, posing as a film with deep moral complexity. It's as if the story was built out of 70's cliches, then written up by a clever film student.

Lancaster portrays the grim marshal of Bannock, come to Sabbath to arrest a gang of cowboys who accidentally killed a man while they were on a drunken spree. Lancaster's refusal to negotiate, combined with the guilty parties' senseless determination to fight him, and the townspeople's meddling, eventually leads to a violent conclusion.

Only excellent performances by everyone in the cast lift this bit of pulp fiction up a few notches from what it would have been otherwise.

The movie is superficially fascinating on first viewing, but doesn't hold up to any careful thought.  Nearly everyone in the movies acts irrationally, self-destructively, or fails to do what any normal person in the same situation would do.

Lancaster arrives in town all by himself, even though he's there to arrest 7-8 armed men all at the same time. The big boss (Lee J. Cobb) obviously isn't dumb or hot-headed, and he doesn't want any gunplay, but he doesn't do any of the things a smart, hard-working, calm, sensible cattle baron would really do under these circumstances.

Robert Ryan is the marshal of the town, but he never asserts himself over Lancaster, even though he opposes what Lancaster is doing, it's Ryan's jurisidiction and he could just order Lancaster to leave.  None of the cowboys seem to show any concern about getting killed; in fact, it never even seems to occur to them to gang up on Lancaster (he couldn't possibly shoot all of them at once). Since none of them intentionally shot the victim, and they were all shooting off guns, and there's seven of them -- there would be no way a judge could sensibly convict any one man of the crime anyway.

Why did it take months for the original crime to be investigated? If J.D. Cannon's character is so cowardly, why wasn't he afraid enough of Lancaster to just surrender? If he's so sure Lancaster will kill him, why did he run away from him in broad daylight, like a sitting duck?

The movie just doesn't make any sense.

So though the premise and set-up seem interesting at the start, pretty soon you realize the whole story is a contrived violence machine driving to one place: a distasteful, 1970's downbeat ending and you shaking your head and saying "What was THAT?".