It's been a long time since I've felt this strongly about a film, good or bad, and it's a rare day when I decide to write a review on Amazon about it.  I actually had a friend of mine tell me it was the worst movie ever, and I went in hoping to prove him wrong.
Vertical Limit, however, stirred me to action.  This has got to be the most predictible, cliche movie since, well, I don't know -- maybe ever.  Five minutes into the film, shortly after the overdramatic intro, I knew the identities of the people who were going to survive at the end of the film.  Twenty minutes into the film, I could tell you how they were all going to die.
The film is one series of unbelievable circumstances and coincidences after another, without a break for a fresh breath of reality.  The writer/director of this movie took no pains to create any sort of believability -- it's almost as though they took some key terms and concepts and didn't actually talk to anybody who'd ever climbed a mountain.  While that probably isn't true, very little about this film makes any sense at all.
Paxson, Glenn, Tunney and O'Donnell are all talented actors, but why they signed up for this, I have no idea.  None of the characters manage to develop any sort of emotional attachment at all.  I ended up rooting for the villain (why is there always a villain in mountain climbing movies?) at the end just to see something --ANYTHING -- that I wasn't expecting.
Martin Campbell has made a number of mediocre to good action flicks in GoldenEye, No Escape and the Mask of Zorro.  He must've been badly in need of a paycheck or a huge kickback from R.E.I.
I promised myself to say one good thing about the film, and the only thing I can be honest about is that the scenery is gorgeous.  Had I seen it on the big screen, there would have been scenes that are simply breathtaking.  As it is, however, I'm thrilled I didn't see it on the big screen, because I would have been ill that I had spent money on it.
Overall, the movie is only worth watching if you want to tell your friends how bad it is.  I've liked some pretty crummy action movies in my time (Cliffhanger, Armageddon, Die Hard 2, etc.) but I just can't deal with this one.
0 stars out of 5, if that were possible.