I saw this movie (actually a shortened version) at Stone Mountain, Georgia last weekend where it was billed as being 4-D. The 4-D came from the 3-D presentation along with some physical effects such as vibrating seats, water sprays, hot chocolate smell, etc. added to it. While the train was skidding sideways across the ice, water was being sprayed on my cheeks and it felt just like little sprinkles of ice hitting me! But the real star of the show was the 3-D. During the rollercoaster train ride it almost felt like I was on the train. And when the waiters were tossing hot chocolate around to the kids I almost expected to get hit with a cup. This is a movie that is made much better by 3-D. If you have a 3-D TV I would suggest this be one of your movie purchases since you won't have to worry about buyer's remorse when you get home.

My very first experience with 3-D was at the Central Florida State Fair in Orlando in 1967. At the Chevrolet tent, Chevy had set up a dish-shaped screen about 15 feet in diameter in front of a few rows of folding chairs and showed a short commercial video on it. The video started off with some folks on a swing and I felt like I was moving back and forth with them. Next came a trip down into the Grand Canyon on a mule; a jostling, jaunty ride that was utterly realistic. Before long the viewer was put in the driver's seat of a 1967 Corvette Stingray that was in a race. The sensation was so real that I was rocking side to side as the 'vette hit the corners and when it came to a screeching stop I almost flew off the front of my chair. The entire thing was done without using glasses! That level of 3-D has yet to appear for consumers, but perhaps someday it will.

I'm glad to see that the studios are making 3-D movies that use something other than red/green glasses available to home viewers. The first 3-D movie I ever saw that used these new types of glasses was in 1978 and was titled "Frankenstein 3-D", a monster movie that made the most of the technology. The visual effects were spectacular, at some points bordering on sickening, such as when a spear was thrust completely through a person, shoving an organ out of the front of the abdomen and dangling it at a point that seemed mere inches from my nose. At one point in the movie a bird appeared to fly directly out of the screen and toward my face making me flinch. This made me hunger for more 3-D. Unfortunately the viewing audiences of the day weren't quite ready for that and after one more visually-stunning, but not very profitable, 3-D film about invaders from outer space things went back to 2-D.

If Polar Express 3-D is any indication, we're entering a great time for watching movies! I only hope we don't end up with competing formats that make buying the necessary equipment perilous for the pocketbook.