High school and college guys (and those of us with a little high school lingering inside) are clearly the target market for this movie. This crowd will enjoy Team America just because it's so over-the-top funny, irreverent, gross and crude--at first blush apparently joining the endless parade of empty teen "comedies" trying to top each other in crudeness.

But folks! Wait! This is crudity with a message!

And boy, what a message.

Buried underneath the explosions and expletives is a very intelligent summation of the Way the World Is. Yes, America isn't perfect (a hilarious opening scene in Paris deftly portrays this)--but is there something else to consider besides Our imperfection? Yes Michael Moore, there is another side to this equation, and Stone and Parker--bless 'em--give it to us, and it's messy but truly original, and yes, even brilliant. The sections of the film featuring North Korea's delusional dictator are perfect.

I left high school--and college--a long time ago, but I can imagine what it must be like to be a kid in today's frozen politically correct climate. No matter what you say, you're gonna' break someone's rules-and what's more, the rules aren't written down anywhere. I can also imagine what a release it must be to sit in a dark theater and finally be able to safely and completely let go of every possible politically correct sacred cow, and just laugh. Nearly every one of those smug, self-righteous, self-appointed arbiters of "What's Right" get whacked good in this movie. Man, that feels good.

In the end, Stone and Parker give "the rest of us" a voice. After having to endure the baffling silliness of watching half of America take Michael Moore's work of 911 fiction seriously; and the ludicrous claims of "a chill wind" from the likes of Tim Robbins, it's great fun (and even a little satisfying) to watch both Moore and Robbins "get theirs" in this movie. I loved this film. I'm not sure what kind of politics this move represents-perhaps some new hybrid. (I thought my political leanings were undefinable until Stephen Stanton on techcentralstation.com labeled misfits like me "South Park Republicans.") If you're a common sense, hard-working American proud of Us, even with all Our faults (and you're not easily offended), you may enjoy this movie too.

In fact, I loved it so much, I'm gonna' go see it again. Take that, Michael Moore.