VISUALLY STUNNING!!!

Could have been epic, but 3 1/2 stars really as it misses some potential.  CGI blood looked silly and contrived.  Story needed a little more development.

The disappearance of the famed ninth roman legion is the stuff of myth anyway, so historians shouldn't get too caught up on historical accuracy in this movie.  The movie focuses on aspects of the legend, not the bits and pieces of facts left behind by one of the oldest and storied of legions in the history of Rome.

BACK STORY NOT IN THE MOVIE:  The IX Legion Hispana was raised by Pompey in 65 BC and commanded by Julius Caesar from 61 BC as a governor in Spain.  The legion fought in many campaigns over almost two centuries including Spain, Gaul, Germany, Africa and Britain.  They were ordered into action against Sextus Pompeius by Octavian after the murder of Caesar and played a role in the "Final War of the Republic" with Anthony and Cleopatra ending at Actium in 31 BC.  They mostly disappeared from Roman record by 109 AD.  Earlier in Britain, they suffered near destruction in battle against Boudicca, were reconstituted and then transferred to the Northern fringes to protect York and helped build the fortress at Eboracum.  The movie picks up the story shortly after this and the popular legend of many books and films is that they marched out against the Picts and were never seen again.  Some historians and story tellers suggest that their destruction is what prompted Hadrian to cut his losses and built the famous Hadrian wall.

THE MOVIE: Trailers seem to suggest that the movie is all about survivors from a terrible battle with the Picts going on in an attempt to liberate their captured general.  This is only one aspect of the storyline and he is not the central character (though prominent).  I won't go much further because you will want to see the movie yourself.  It is a story of betrayal, struggle and survival that perhaps could have been developed a little more.  The story is engaging and the movie is visually stunning.  The characters are very compelling also, but as I implied, they really should have used a few more minutes of runtime to flesh them out.  This is a good movie (that I will buy first day) but they missed an opportunity to make truly epic cinema.  The actors do a terrific job and all the elements were there.  The Scenery is gorgeous and the chromatically grey cinematography I thought was brilliant.  They just didn't develop it all far enough.  I think someone was afraid to let the movie run a little longer and shortchanged the audience.  I admit, though the runtime was actually on the short side, the movie didn't seem short.  Additional story, poorly done, could have ruined the movie altogether.  MY BIGGEST COMPLAINT WAS ACTUALLY THE CHEAP CGI BLOOD SPATTERS which looked completely ridiculous and blatantly painted on film after the fact.  It seemed like something entirely separate from the movie existing on its own plane or surface.  I would even say it cheapened an otherwise very rich looking movie.  This is barely forgivable against the rest of the visual feast.  The costumes were stunning (I don't know how accurate) and the strongest images were actually the Pictish women.  Olga Kurylenko is stunning.  There was a blonde huntress with her that is downright otherworldy in her blue woad paint that they could have developed more.  I admit it, I love women in woad! Since long before Olga K. and Keira Knightly (Arthur).  I was also glad to see a favorite actress from post apocalyptic movie fame - Imogen Poots.  She's amazing here (the witch) and deserves great parts in many movies to come.

Please do an extended cut!  (Just do it well)