Running "The Hiding Place" through a video player can unlock the door to a place of safety-- a reverent, joyful chamber of promise.

This cannot be a piece of fiction, for in its unlikely construction we see and hear Truth manifesting itself (Himself) through the story of two precious "old maids" of the Netherlands and their watchmaker father. We might, upon a casual viewing, consider this family brave, heroic, self-sacrificing in their efforts to conceal Jews during the World War II Nazi occupation of Holland. But having lived with this story since I was 13 when I heard Corrie ten Boom speak in my church, and having read the book and played the video countless times as an adult, I have come to see that the ten Boom family was neither brave or heroic, but rather "occupied" themselves with a glorious intruder.

He came and transformed their "war efforts" and the resulting torture they endured in concentration camps into an astounding (but Biblically typical)"context" for communion with Himself. Corrie and Betsie and their earthly father would be the first to say that the Lord Jesus Christ is the hero of their incredible passage through hell. And perhaps most amazing of all, they would enthusiastically express that He translated this dark journey into a profoundly beautiful experience saturated with the light, joy, safety and power of His presence.

But this was all a secret. Not everyone saw it at the time it was happening, the movie may hide it as well. My prayer would be that as this story unfolds on film, He will unlock the door of this mystery to every viewer.

Interestingly, when this movie was being made in the mid 1970's, the real Corrie ten Boom was on the set during the entire filming process -- or rather she was close at hand. Many days she would lock herself in a hotel room and pray... pray that He would open the door to Himself through the film. This time alone in prayer was not a burden, nor was she pleading, petitioning a distant, indifferent source of power for a personal favor. She was simply spending time with her Friend and her God in His hiding place, asking Him to bring glory to Himself through this special story He began orchestrating through her life during in the 1940's... and is continuing to unfold...

In short, this film in infused with stuff bigger than itself. It is worthy of many viewings. The performances (a transcendent Julie Harris, a vulnerable, annointed Jeannette Clift), the haunting, beautiful musical score, the straightforward direction and its reverent tone towards Christ(something very rare in cinema), all contribute to a "Portrait" of Truth and Promise. This isn't film making -- it's key turning and finger pointing. Peek inside and see. He is beautiful.

"And I will give you the treasures of darkness, and hidden wealth of secret places, In order that you may know that it is I, The Lord, the God of Israel, who calls you by your name." Isaiah 45:3