Terry Gilliam (Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas) takes a typical "time travel" theory and twists it into one heck of a psychological thriller. The premise of the movie is rather interesting (if you're into sci-fi). Cole (Bruce Willis) is in the future (30 or so years?) in a world where only 1% of the population lives - all underground. He's imprisoned for random acts of violence we're slightly hinted towards in a dark, gloomy, odd underground Philadelphia prison. He is hand picked by the top scientists of the underground world to travel back in time to 1996 to gather information on the super-virus that was released in December 1996 by the army of the 12 Monkeys. Unfortunately he is sent back to 1990 Baltimore and finds himself put into a mental institution because, lets be honest, anybody that randomly shows up and is going on about collecting information about the virus that wipes out 5 billion people is obviously going to be thought to be a little nuts. At the institution he runs into Jeffrey (Brad Pitt) who is very insane (Oscar-nominated role in this movie) and "befriends" Cole as eventually helps him escape. In the process, Cole's psychiatrist Kathryn (Madeleine Stowe) feels an odd connection with him on a more spiritual level. She is convinced she knows him from somewhere. To speed it up, he goes back to the future and then goes BACK to 1996...there the story goes on...

All throughout, the movie takes Cole and twists his (and your) mind and starts to make him (and you) doubt if his "time-travel" experiences have actually happened...or was he just really insane. The movie is pretty straight forward in making it clear that he did go back in time, but you really go "or did he?" the whole time. It is really cool how everyone plays together and ties together. It twists your mind a lot, and you'll be biting your nails the whole time trying to figure out what will happen. The whole "dream" sequence that is seen throughout finally comes together at the end and its a CLASSIC "Wow...." scene. I have to say it was the coolest twist on modern sci-fi mind thrillers to date.

If you've seen the movie The Prestige, you'll see some similarities...some.

I'm Will Black, and thats my review of 12 Monkeys.

5/5 Stars