The original `Fantasia', released in 1940, was meant to be the first in a series of similar movies; collections of animated shorts set to classical music. It's a format I can identify with- as a kid, I habitually made up stories while listening to orchestral recordings. Here, animators have done the same thing in visual form.
`Fantasia 2000' was formatted to be shown in Imax theaters. Unfortunately, Imaxes being so few and far apart, I never got a chance to see it on the Really Big Screen, and I know I've missed something. I can only advise fellow video-viewers to watch this one on the largest available TV. 
Another alteration; rather than featuring a single anonymous narrator, `2000' uses on-screen celebrities. I'm not sure this is any improvement , but at least some of them (Angela Lansbury, James Earl Jones) have done previous Disney voice work, a couple (Quincy Jones, Itzhak Perlman) have bona-fide musical credentials, and one (Steve Martin) manages to be genuinely funny. Still, there's no doubt that the music and pictures are the real Stars of this flick.
Following the pattern of it's illustrious predecessor, the opening piece- set to the first movement of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony- is semi-abstract. A conflict between hordes of  black and pastel-colored butterflies is involved, but the real points of interest are the variant lighting effects. 
Next comes Ottorino Respighi's `Pines of Rome', accompanied by images straight off  a New Age calendar. A nova appears in the sky above the Arctic Ocean, inexplicitly giving the power of flight to a large pod of humpback whales. No plot to speak of; it's just an excuse to present hundreds of whales frolicking among storm clouds. Which is certainly good enough for me!
In contrast, the following set is completely concerned with story-telling. Al Hirschfeld, acknowledged master of the affectionate caricature, provides the line-drawing style to accompany George Gershwin's `Rhapsody In Blue.' A day in the life of four variant New Yorkers, each of whom longs for something, and achieves it (at least temporarily) by the piece's end. Strikingly apt in it's depiction of a uniquely Manhattan mood, it also includes an unprecedented Disney acknowledgement of racism- at one point, an African-American construction worker is repeatedly ignored by the taxis he's trying to flag down.
Shostakovich's `Piano Concerto #2' provides the soundtrack for Hans Christian Andersen's  "The Steadfast Tin Soldier" (or rather a version of that tale- per usual for Disney, Andersen's sad ending has been perked up.) This is the only section of the movie done entirely with computer-generated animation, which seems appropriate; it *is* a toy story.
Next: a brief, highly energetic cartoon. One member of a flamingo flock acquires a yo-yo, entanglements ensue, to the sounds of Saint-Saens' `Carnival of the Animals' finale. Easily the most amusingly silly segment.
Then comes a transplant from the original `Fantasia'; Mickey Mouse in Dukas' `The Sorcerer's Apprentice.' Nothing more to say about that.
Apparently somebody at Disney thought Donald Duck deserved a similar showcase, for he has a comparable role in the next  piece. Donald and Daisy are Noah's assistants in the story of the Ark, set to Edward William Elgar's `Pomp and Circumstance' (the first time I've heard that work played in it's entirety.) Donald without his voice is definitely more diminished than a mute Mickey, but the duck manages some funny bits without it- I loved his double-take after directing a pair of mallards aboard. And there's some genuine pathos when Donald and Daisy, separated in a loading mix-up, are both led to believe the other missed the boat. These two Disney love-birds have never been more sympathetic.
They saved the best for last. Igor Stravinsky's powerful `Firebird' frames a dramatic account of the Mount Saint Helen's eruption, with some mythical entities added.  A verdant-tressed sprite represents life and renewal, while a truly frightening Firebird symbolizes the destructive power of the volcano. Their's is a primordial clash, but it's inevitable which one will finally win, and Stravinsky's score makes that triumph nearly as moving as the real-life events.
Overall, I'd say this video is not *quite* as good as the first `Fantasia', but as the original is among my all-time favorite movies, that's hardly criticism. Certainly `2000' is a very fine effort, well worthy of a sequel. 
Here's hoping the gap between this and the next Fantasia will be somewhat shorter than sixty years.