First, a special message to all the fools who are chastising the DVD video for being full-frame and the sound for being mono.  If you folks had the SLIGHTEST clue, you would be aware that THIS IS HOW KUBRICK WANTED HIS  MOVIES TO BE RELEASED!  In theatres, The Shining was matted to 1:78 to 1, I  believe, so the home video actually shows MORE of the screen than you've  seen in the theatre.  Full Metal Jacket was the same way - have any of you  complainers ever seen a widescreen version of that? Duh!  
As for the  movie itself, what can you say?  It's one of the best horror flicks of all  time, and the only people who hate it are usually those who are unable to  THINK.  With every repeat viewing, you can find some new food for thought.  For example, when Jack yells at Wendy for breaking his concentration, after  she walks away you'll notice that he suddenly starts typing on a new piece  of paper which he DIDN'T put in the typewriter.  Is this a blooper? With  well-known-perfectionist Kubrick, I doubt it...seems to me like the hotel  is giving him paper! And when Scatman Crothers and Wendy are touring the  kitchen, how come Wendy is leading the way, even though she's never been  there?  Watch the scene and you'll see what I mean.  
The steadycam  shots, and the camera angles in general, especially the one where the  camera is looking UP at Nicholson in the storage room, are incredible -  it's plain to see that Kubrick was a genius.
As for the DVD, the print  used is pretty worn, with reel-change marks, hairs, and who knows what  else, but it's still better than the videotape.  To me, The Shining always  had a grainy, old-looking appearance which is part of it's charm - but the  film (hell, ALL of his films) is due for a full restoration.
The only  extra on the DVD is Vivian Kubrick's documentary, which is a treasure and  well worth the price of the DVD alone...the only other extra I could have  asked for is the original theatrical ending, which is probably  long-gone.
A must-have!