I had wanted to see this final season of Newsradio for years. Filmed just soon after the tragic death of actor Phil Hartman (and thusly his character Bill McNeil), the crew of WNYX mourns his loss in the premiere episode. It's very heartfelt and genuine. You can see the actor feelings on the surface and it makes the episode that much more touching. Catherine Duke(Khandi Alexander)returns for this episode & it's great to see her again.

After the first episode, the show goes on in just the same terrific manor that it did the 4 years previous. Jon Lovitz fills in for his good friend Phil Hartman as Max Lewis, a bumbling, weird, insane & ultimately lovable newsman. While Max Lewis as a character can never replace the genius character that is Bill McNeil, he's a perfect fit with the rest of the cast. And, throughout the season, the lack of Bill's trademark humor & presence is definitely felt.

There are many priceless episodes & moments, including "Flowers for Matthew" in which Joe gives Matthew a "smart drink" and the results are hilarious. "Jail" "The Lam" & "Clash of the Titans" where Jimmy James is arrested for supposedly being notorious long lost thief D.B. Cooper. Jimmy's arrest, incarceration & escape are only part of the fun of these episodes. "Freaky Friday" in which Matthew & Jimmy switch jobs for a day. And, of course, Matthew totally messes things up for Jimmy. I laughed so hard when Jimmy chases after Matthew, you could tell they had fun doing that scene. And, of course, the final episode "New Hampshire". Series finales are always bittersweet, and this one's a great end to the series. I really liked how all the characters were resolved and in typical Newsradio fashion, the very end is hilarious. Also, watch for a seriously creepy looking Matthew under Dave's desk near the end. There are also many guest stars like Adam West, Patrick Warburton & Tiffany Amber Thiessen.

All in all, if you were ever a fan of Newsradio, pick up this season (along with all the others), you will not be disappointed. It's my favorite sit-com of all time.