This particular film is hard to review mainly due to the fact that there are so many other reviews on here. But at the same time it's so hard not to review because of what an outstanding movie this turned out to be. I had a small amount of information on The Changeling before watching it. I knew that being directed by Clint Eastwood it had to be good or even great. He is a wonderful and talented director and has a vision for capturing the realism of life in a film. I was a little skeptical about Angelina Jolie being the main character. She gave a solid performance and had my heart aching for her the entire time. Some individuals say that they were sick of her crying in the movie and that she wasn't emotional enough to make them believe she had just lost her son. I do have to make a quick comment on that. First of all this was based in the 1920's when women had pretty much no say in the real world at all. They were made to show no emotion and pretty much keep their mouth shut at all times. So I think Angelina did superb at playing a 1920's mother. And yes she cried a lot, but tell me what mother wouldn't cry all the time if their son got kidnapped. Some of the pungent remarks people made are just so ridiculous and absurd that I had to say something to defend the film. I know everyone has their own opinion but atleast know what you're talking about when you put down a movie. The story telling was the most amazing part. Being based on a true story it is hard to imagine our world being so full of corruption and monstrous human beings. Everyone in the film played their part very well. And of course Clint Eastwood did outstanding as a director. The only thing lacking was how little you get to see the mother bonding with her child in the beginning. It's hard to fathom how strong their bond really was when you never get to see it happen for yourself. I know it may seem like a small problem and that I am just picking at the film. But that's not the case I love the movie. The problem is actually kind of big when the whole story is based on a mothers love for her child. We know that she loves her son very much, it just would have made the film have an even more powerful effect to see the process happen.

 This is based on a true story of a mother in the 1920's desperate to find her son when he goes missing one evening. Can she survive the antagonistic police force while still clinging on to hope for her son?. In this gripping tale you find out the true bond a mother has for her son by the extensive lengths she will go through for him and how strong a woman can really be when she is faced with more than a few horrible challenges. How never giving up can be one of the hardest things in life to face.

 The Changeling will have a strong hold on your heart and soul the entire way through. It is more than sad and yet happiness somehow seems to prevail. I highly recommend this as a must see film for the people that like dramatic, horror, great acting, well directed and well written movies.