Apparently, when airlines plan the in-flight "entertainment" on their cross-country flights, they go under three assumptions: 1. They have a captive audience. 2. This audience would rather look at a tiny screen in the dark than see the Rocky Mountains. 3. People that fly in airplanes are stupid and in menopause (note that, unlike this movie, I am drawing a distinction between these two groups).
  This movie is nothing more grandiose than a low-grade soft-porn flick for old people. That neither the director nor the target audience realize this only further emphasizes the need for a serious re-evaluation of the voting privelages of the elderly. Personally, I would feel safer if our leaders were selected by 10-year-olds than by the ogling herds of fading Baby Boomers in elastic waisted pants that make up this movie's target audience.
  Despite what the movie suggests, a man of Jack Nickelson's personal appearance and manner and age would only get a stupid young woman to eagerly wriggle out of her low-rise jeans if he was waving a couple of hundred dollars at her. (Note that the director eagerly waved a good bit more than a couple hundred at the actresses in this movie). Despite the fact that Jack once was young - he is not anymore - much like Joan Collins and Bill Clinton. He is an elderly, liver-spotted fool, and the movie only reminds us of this. I personally find this comforting, since it suggests that, one day, all of the Jack Nickelsons in the world will be dead - and we will thus be rid of them.
  Of course Diane Keaton is just as laughable. Looking like she's had enough facelifts to safely tuck her chin(s) behind her ears (Diane to her private Surgeon: "COME ON! PULL IT TIGHTER! MY NEXT MOVIE IS SUPPOSED DEMONSTRATE THAT WOMEN SHOULDN'T BE JUDGED BY THEIR AGE AND LOOKS!"), she has all the emotional clarity that can imaginably be associated with a particularly ugly menopause. Diane is as likely to steal the heart of Keanu Reeves as she is to steal the heart of Alfonso the sea lion. Wait - scratch that - Sea lions are both overly amorous and near-sighted. Someone please tell Diane to steer clear of public aquaria!
  In an effort to pile one insulting plot-twist on top of another, we are not only forced to watch Jack Nickelson and Diane Keaton hoot and hump all over the screen like a pair of manure-smeared orangutans, but they are unfortunately also given lines. We are thus faced not only with the impossible demand of picturing these miserable old fools constantly scoring young movie stars, but we are also asked to believe that they're clever and witty while doing it. I can only assume that they believe their audience is excessively gullible, lulled by the hormonal imbalances and extreme wishful thinking of a generation that thought JFK was an upright citizen. Then again, I was entrusting my life to a large chunk of machinery that was hurtling through the air 7 miles above the earth while I watched this movie. Who am I to talk about gullibility?
  This movie demonstrates that, for the ideal retired person of today, the flower of old age - wisdom - has been traded in for a second go at the orangutan pen. If you're one of these old fools - by all means, watch this movie. If there's any dignity and decency left in your balding, liver-spotted skulls, it will awake screaming at the full-frontal assault this movie subjects it to. If this doesn't happen - may I suggest the SkyMall catalogue and a miniature bag of pretzels?