Big Eden (2002) Wolfe Video
 Is that "Don't Let the Stars Get in Your Eyes"?  Well, this gay film is going to be different!  Director Thomas Bezucha allows your questions to drift away.  As his story unfolds; you find yourself in a beautiful world.  Here, everything is as it should be.  Like a true magician, he focuses your attention away from questions.  His talented slight of hand brushes aside homophobia and racism.  Filmed inside Glacier National Park, the beauty of nature instills a sense of awe.
 Big Eden fulfills the purpose of a myth with a homespun approach and quite humor.  Even without the tired "victimization of oppression", intimacy is hard to deal with.  No time to waste being divisive, this deals with real issues and problems we create for ourselves with our fantasies.  At the same time it gives us a glance of a future that really is not that far off.  The splendor of nature is unpredictable, so is this film.
 Henry Hart (Arye Gross), an artist just making a name for himself in New York City.  He is a sad sack that things just seem to happen to.  He can't quite get a handle on his life.  Gross allows inanimate objects to fight his every move. The day before opening his major exhibit, a call from Montana changes everything.  The grandfather, Sam, who raised him, has had a stroke.  Against the advice of his manager and best friend Mary Margaret (Veanne Cox), he hops a plane, flies across the country, and crashes headlong into his past.
 The town of Big Eden is a gentler version of "Twin Peaks" inhabited with the nice kind of odd people.  They are all part of our hero.
 Sam Hart, (George Coe) built every house in the town.  He stands by his work.  He doesn't see a stroke as a reason to retire, or change what he eats!
 The school teacher Grace (Louise Fletcher) sings in the church choir and is afraid of nothing.  She is a family friend and confidant.  Grace is the embodiment of the love to be found here. This woman can see right through you and still enjoy the view.  (Completely countering Fletcher's historic part of Nurse Ratchet in "One Flew over the Cuckoos Nest").
 The Widow Thayer, (Nan Martin) sees no reason for people to be alone.  Her mission is a matchmaker.  There is no stopping her.  Not really a busy body, she is just willing to work to get friends to meet.  She is glad to offer advice and cooking, although both might be questionable.
 Pike, (Eric Schweig) owns the general store.  He is shy and unsure of himself. He can hardly look people in the eye without stammering.  The "guys" who hang out on the porch all day long feel obligated to protect him.  While goofing off, they run interference. They learned to use his fancy coffee maker and  like kids, argue over who gets to make the next cappuccino!  Pike appears to want a quiet life, and stays to himself.  He talks more to his dog Frances then to any customer.  Is this what he wants, or is it just safe and all he can hope for?  Either way, he is quick to simply and politely, turn his back and disappear.
 Not at all like the outgoing and playful Dean, (Tim Dekay).  He was the high school jock and once, Henry's crush.  Everybody knew the boys were close. Dean, now divorced, moved back into town with his two little boys.  The kids take to Henry and we can tell Henry is still "carrying a torch".  Is Dean only being friendly or is he making the moves on our hero?  What is he up to, does he even know? More importantly, what is he able to do?
 The Mayor (Corinne Bohrer) is a single mother, how is she going to fit into this equation? She has a demure smile but watch out, she plays a mean fiddle!
 Henry's long distance life line is Mary Margaret. She does her best reminding him Dean is straight, period!  How many years of therapy did it take to get over him?  She wants what is best for her friend but as a manager, she wants him back in New York!
 Now, here comes Widow Thayer with an entire chess team to visit Sam and Henry!  Where did that come from? Don't worry; Bezucha has just the right shot and old song that explains everything.
 Impressive visuals don't overpower this funny "coming to terms" film.  Henry's art is abstract, but nature provides the stunning backdrop to the reality that he must face.
 The music list reads like the best of country music.  George Jones, Dwight Yoakam, Buck Owens, Jim Reeves, Skeeter Davis, David Allan Coe, and Lori White are carefully picked to guide us through the emotional backgrounds.
 No "twinks" or half naked gym rats. No sex scenes - even implied, and only a couple of kisses.  You won't feel uncomfortable watching with your mother or grandmother.  If you are looking for homophobia, or teen suicide, or racial prejudges, look elsewhere.  Plenty of films focus on those themes.
 Big Eden's message is simple: When everything else you did is wrong, what is left for you to do was right all along!  One of those right things is to see this film for pure enjoyment.  Watch the breathtaking beauty, tap your foot with the music, and share the unexpected happiness with a friend.  The character of Jim sums it up best when he says: "There are so few nice suppresses in life.  "Seems to me its kind of a shame to squander one of them don't you think?"