"All About Eve" deserves the sole right to be the only film to have earned 14 Oscar nominations. I truly love this picture and have seen it like over 25 times now and can never get enough of it. As a writer I  cannot even begin to figure out just how Mankiewicz so giftedly came up  with such superb theatrical dialogue and situations that evoke the true  spirit of life in the theater. The character of Addison DeWitt is truly  remarkable. Who can't love the beguiling sixth sense he has on Eve and her  hideous deception upon the great Margo Channing? This film is both funny  and serious, thus serving as the perfect mixture for any great picture. The  humor comes from Davis and Ritter in their smart cracks about this and that  and who can't chuckle at the remarks Sanders makes about Eve, the theater,  and life itself, particularly when he says that he leaves all loves to  Louisa May Alcott. When I first saw this film back on a cold, rainy and  dismal Sunday morning in December of 1996 and unable to make it to church I  just popped this into the VCR because I had just bought it the day before,  simply because it is one of the greatest achievements to ever come out of  Hollywood. I immediately fell in love with it and totally forgot all about  the depression in the weather outside. The magnificent blend of humor and  drama has the power to banish all doldrums in life and this film does just  that and more. I watched it like 4 times that week and still have yet to  get tired of it and I doubt I ever will. No film before or since has ever  come close to the magic of this one, which shines with a great cast  assemblage and rising Marilyn Monroe to everlasting fame in her small role  at the party in the film. All theater buffs and fans of the stage should  see this film and learn from it, as should filmmakers. It teaches us that  we should strive to do our best in life on our own and not use the  reputation of some idol we admire to transform ourselves into something we  were not meant to be. It's no wonder it won the Oscar for Best Picture of  1950. My family and I truly love and treasure this film as did my cousin  who truly loves the theater and has played Anne Frank on the stage. I urge  all movie collectors, especially if you love the classics as I do, to get  this and add it to your collection if you don't already. No video shelf  should be without this classic, for it so vividly represents Hollywood at  its very best.