If you are like me, you appreciate the experience of a nice home-theater system, but you may not have all of the A/V know-how to make the most out of your setup.  There are a LOT of different settings to tinker with, and frankly, it can be frustrating, confusing, and time-consuming to get everything "just right".  When you tinker with one setting, it affects others, and some of the advanced settings on a good plasma or LCD TV almost seem like a foreign language to those of us who wern't in the A/V club in high school!

This product changes the learning curve.  No longer will one feel the need to call in some "expert" to set up their home theater.  The set-up of this disc is such where those people who don't know beans about any aspect of home theater systems have some great intro material to watch and learn from, while others that have more experience or knowledge can easily skip those sections.  Then, it progresses in to the actual tests and tools that you will be using to calibrate your system.  These are also divided in to sections ranging from basic to advanced-level tools.

Each test/tool is then further split in to three parts, which are also individually selected on the menu so you again have the ability to skip anything that you don't think you need.  The first part explains the purpose of the settings, and how it affects the picture or sound.  The explanations are straight-forward, simple without having the feeling that you are being treated like an idiot, and quite informative.  The next part is the instructions of how to perform the test/use the tool, including explaining exactly what setting you shoud be adjusting on your TV or speaker system.  The third part is the test/tool itself.

To make things just a tad easier to start with, instead of starting from scratch, I went to CNET and looked up the recommended settings for my television.  Since all TVs are a bit different, and settings will differ depending on ambient room lighting, age of the TV, etc, these will almost certainly not be the perfect settings for everyone.  I then went ahead and used the tools on this Blu-ray to fine-tune my system.  The results were truly astounding!  The difference in picture and sound quality was vastly superior to what the factory pre-sets were, let alone my feeble attempts at adjusting the settings myself without a guide!

So, here's the bottom line: you just spent a huge chunk of change on a nice television and sound system.  You want the best performance possible from your new "toys".  You can either drop another $100.00 + USD to have an "expert" come in and get everything set up for you, or, you can spend $20.00 USD for a tool that will allow you to do it yourself, and be able to use it for any other TV in your home.  If somehow your system decides to do something funky in the future, and it resets itself to factory defaults, (hey, all electronics are buggy... no matter the brand or the price tag!), the you have this awesome tool to get everything back to optimum performance.  You want to change the furniture around, and need to move the speakers?  No problem!  Pop this disc in the Blu-ray player, and get the settings perfect for your new configuration!

Did I mention it also has an excellent tool to fix image burn-in and "pixel fatigue"?  This is an important part of the maintenance of newer televisions, and the tool provided on this disc is far superior to the "anti-image retention" tools pre-installed on most televisions.

Anyone who owns a new plasma or LCD television are truly missing out if they do not utilize this amazing product!  There are similar ones on the market, but this is by far the best one available and accessable for the vast majority of people.  And for $20.00 USD, after dropping a few grand on my system, it's a no-brainer purchase in my book.