There aren't many performances in film that translate with such intensity a man's ancestral obsequiousness, and cowardice in the face of duty, than Anthony Hopkins' in the above film. This came out the same year as Philadelphia, the movie that achieved Tom Hanks his first, and much deserved, academy award. As poignant as Tom's portrayal is of an AIDS-afflicted homosexual taking on corporate and social prejudice, however, I really believe Anthony was the superior heir to the accolade. The film received eight nominations in all, including Best Film, Best Actress (Emma Thompson), and Best Actor, and Anthony was coming off an Oscar-winning role for his work in Silence of the Lambs three years prior. Whereas Philadelphia's outstanding appeal is rooted in its obvious social matter, The Remains of the Day is a subtle, probing, and I think an even more tragic painting of a man immured by heritage and dutiful blindness.
  Based on the book by Kazuo Ishiguro, the story is divested through flashbacks of a retired butler named Stevens (Hopkins) near the end of his life circa 1958. He is engaged in a trek across the English countryside toward a long awaited meeting that he hopes might reconcile his past mistakes. His reminiscences take us back to a period shortly preceding the Second World War, in the estate of the politically inclined Lord Darlington, under whom Stevens serves. He is possessed with a stringent, self-denying will to fulfill his duty, and his thoroughly unsentimental way of life is challenged with the arrival of the new housekeeper, the spirited, idealistic Miss Kenton (Emma Thompson). The film concentrates on the tortured and repressed romance between these two as Darlington Hall becomes embroiled in a political, underhanded affair with the Nazis.
  It is a thoughtful, masterful film that unveils itself in the shadows and crevices of the manor; the only effect is human emotion. Pay attention to how Hopkins has unearthed the subtleties, in his unsated eyes and breathy hesitations, of a man buried in ignorance and loneliness due to obsessive, familial yeomanry. A man who will not leave the table to attend to his dying father upstairs, also a butler, until his master has been seated. And the final scene, where the dove becomes trapped in a room and is eventually released through the window -watch as Stevens stares curiously after the fleeting, liberated creature and the camera retreats from the window, revealing the breathtaking expanse of the English landscape. This is the world that he has failed to understand and explore. Beautiful. Hopkins proves he is a master: he has exhumed in this character something so personal, hopeful, with such dark realness, and with a quality of humanity, as to leave an audience pulverized.