First of all...don't ever let your kids watch this movie. And if they do, well...that's their problem.

Unlike Memento (which I totally loved), Irreversible doesn't have two stories going on and then meet around the middle of the movie. It looks like scenes were filmed in order, but put in an inverse way. That results with credits as the beginning :) Also, that provides you a feeling you don't meet that often in movies nowadays: you always see the consequences before their causes. So you always know later why that thing you just saw happened. Brilliant.

Concerning the raw side of the movie. Well since lots of reviewers almost told you all the story of Irreversible (you're wise guys (ironic)), you surely know about those long violent scenes. I won't tell everything like some others made. I'll just tell you that, when you usually see that something reaaaally sick and bad and violent is gonna happen in a movie, most of time you see like a scary face and a shadow on the wall, or just a short short clip of the act...and then the camera stops. Well here, no shadow, no clip. The camera doesn't stop when it usually does. That says all.

About the actors. I never really liked Monica Belucci. But, in Irreversible, she handles her character like no other ever could. I really think she rocks now. For Vincent Perez, same thing. I always liked him, but wow...on every point, on every aspect (and that's the same for his male peer in the movie..can't remember his name) he's (they're) perfect! Great actors who give an outstanding performance...and actually said "oui" to play in this...I'd say...experimental movie...which surprised me (but in the best possible way).

Frenchies aren't good for comic movies...but Irreversible shows they rock at movies that traumatize people. You gotta give to Ceasar what is Ceasar's.

P.S. If you think that getting the end of the movie first will give you the whole punch of that story, you're so totally wrong. There's even a bigger punch at the beginning of the movie (which you see last).