Admittedly the premise behind this movie of an ex-porn starlet moving next-door to a high school (reluctantly term him geek though that shoe is a little large for his niche in high school heirarchy) is stretching things. This movie though takes that plot and runs with it in a highly clever fashion.

From the opening scenes whereby the population of the high school scribble in their year book memories obliviously labeling themselves amongst the high school social order hooked my attention. Emile Hirsh(Presumably a relative new-comer to the Hollywood movie scene as he was unbeknownst to me) fits in his role admirably. As a young man struggling with his self-and familial imposed expectations while wanting to cut loose and enjoy some of the experiences he watches from the classroom window as the "rebels" cut class to hit the beach and party.

His life changes when he spies the gorgeous blonde neighbour changing prompting her to confront and befriend him.

Soon the two main characters are swept away in the early tides of romance, until the revelation of Elisha's ex-porn profession hits the lad like a ton of bricks. Other obstacles include her ex-producer/boyfriend (brilliantly played) and a school project to import a genuis from overseas to the school (which wasn't an obstacle until the ex-producer showed up).

This film is at heart a romantic comedy, but it appeals to the cynical/jaded audience of the twenty first century not only because of the plot, dark comedy and acting but because it has an edge shining through all the above factors insuring it isn't some mushy lovey dovey story.

This is a romantic comedy for the 21st century.

Finally an apology to Elisha Cuthbert. I had seen some episodes of the critically and audience acclaimed 24 and always thought she looked wooden onscreen. After seeing her acting abilities in this movie I now realize I was judging her talents unfairly. She can not only act(She fulfills this role as if it was written for her and perhaps it was). As an added bonus she is Canadian yay ms. Cuthbert.

This movie is as much a social commentary(another one I know but one of the better ones) on high school and a surprisingly moving love story in which I totally rooted for Matthew and Danielle.