Ok, I have to admit, I have resisted seeing this film because of one name, Mark Wahlberg.  Its this thing I have, the psychologists haven't been able to put a name to it, but I have a fear of viewing films with certain "actors", Wahlberg being one of said "actors".  It's probably why I haven't seen The Matrix yet, the same symptoms seem to appear anytime I see Keanu Reeves.  But my friend Jack tempted me and I did partake.
Writer-Director David O. Russell, deliverers a film that takes a unique perspective at modern warfare, examining the beauty and pain of the human character.  I'll have to tell you, it made me reexamine my view of war.  Four soldiers go AWOL in search of gold bullion (not the small cubes used to make soup) that Saddam Hussein's army has stolen from Kuwait.  Finding and retrieving the gold was easy, but getting out of the country with the gold and their lives becomes the crux of the story as the soldiers struggle with the worth of the gold versus the worth of protecting the Iraqi civilians they have befriended.  This for me made the film; I have seemed to have lost hope with humanity as of late.  I think it is the drive I make to work everyday.  I see these cars with images of the American Flag or Calvin pissing on Bin Laden clinging to the rear windows, it's suppose to say I'm a good citizen or something like that, but they drive like terrorists, putting lives at risk, they obviously don't care about their fellow man. Anyway, Three Kings forces those involved to make a choice between doing the right thing for humanity and doing the right thing for themselves.  
If you saw Traffic, this movie has a similar feel, kind of grainy, makes you feel as if you really are in the heat of the desert.  Oh, we can't leave out the bullet cam; this could very easily have been a scene from Fight Club.  We have seen this before, helmet cam, ball cam, goal cam, but this is bullet cam, we actually see the bullet tearing through flesh and organs from the bullets point of view, odd really.
I also really enjoyed the small role played by Jamie Kennedy; this guy is really funny and extremely talented.  If you haven't seen his show, The Jamie Kennedy Experiment, I highly recommend it, check it out on the WB, I know the WB, but this show really has substance.
So go out and get Three Kings and if your friends ask, just say that Chet beguiled me and I did partake.