"Best in Show" is another of the very funny improvisational dialog movies that Christopher Guest has directed.  The situations are scripted by Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy, but after that they simply let the actors go where they will with the characters and keep the cameras running.  In this movie, he takes aim at dog shows, and the results speak for themselves.

The plot of this film is very simple, as the audience is following 5 dogs and their owners and trainers as the go to compete in the Mayflower Dog Show.  Michael McKean and John Michael Higgins are hilarious as Stefan Vanderhoof and Scott Donlan, the gay owners of Miss Agnes (a Shih Tzu), and Parker Posey and Michael Hitchcock are equally funny as the preppy "win at all cost" owners (Meg and Hamilton Swan) of  Beatrice (a Weimaraner).  Christopher Guest plays Harlan Pepper, the outdoorsman owner of Hubert (a Bloodhound), Catherine O'Hara and Eugene Levy are the mismatched couple (Cookie and Gerry Fleck) who own Winky (a Norwich Terrier) where Gerry is a geek, and Cookie seems to have ex-lovers all over the country.  Last, but not least, we have Jennifer Coolidge who plays Sheri Ann Ward Cabot the rich owner of the two-time reigning champion Rhapsody in White (a Poodle), and Jane Lynch who plays Christy Cummings the trainer.

The other key members of the cast are Fred Willard, who plays Buck Laughlin the know-nothing TV announcer, and Jim Piddock who is Trevor Beckwith, the knowledgeable color man and who plays the straight man for Willard's antics.  There are also some wonderful smaller roles, such as Larry Miler as one of Cookie's ex-lovers and Ed Begley Jr. as the hotel manager.  Those are just some of the names, but I can't do justice to their wonderful work in such a short review.  The actors are the key to improvisation, and the audience is in good hands with this movie.  The situations are funny, but the performances are even funnier.

"Best in Show" premiered at the Toronto Film Festival on September 8th, 2000.  It was not nominated for any Academy Awards, but it did win three American Comedy Awards including: Funniest Motion Picture, Funniest Supporting Actor in a Motion Picture (Fred Willard), Funniest Supporting Actress in a Motion Picture (Catherine O'Hara), and Christopher Guest was also nominated for Funniest Supporting Actor in a Motion Picture.  The film was also nominated for and won awards from many different groups such as the American Cinema Editors, Boston Society of Film Critics, British Comedy Awards, Canadian Comedy Awards, the Golden Globes and many more.

This DVD includes an audio commentary by Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy which is somewhat low-key, but there are some very funny moments if you pay close attention. Also available are quite a few deleted scenes.  You will also find the features which are almost standard at this point, such as a trailer and cast/filmmaker profiles.  In my opinion, this is the best of the improvisational films after "This is Spinal Tap".