"The Whale Rider" is a movie that is one of great interest to people who are big into primal religions. This movie hits the nail on the head per say, when dealing with an local, and ancestral religion. "Pai" must overcome resistance as she tries to assume her destiny, as the leader of a tribe on the New Zealand coast -- is quickly absorbing. The film starts off with her mother and father in the Hospital where Pai and her brother are being born. But with birth complications Pai's brother dies and takes their mother with him.  This is upsetting to the grandfather because the tribe needs a boy to be born to learn the ways of a chief to lead them out of the darkness they are in. Pai lives with the family on the coast where she attends school and is constantly rejected by her grandfather. He loves her and treats her well at times but he tends to hate the fact that the boy did not survive the birth. When Pai's father comes back from Germany he. Is not pleased with how the grandfather is raising her and asked Pai to come live with him in Germany. She says that she will go and on the way to she stops him and says she cannot go. Her grandfather not pleased with the fact that she did not leave starts a school, where he will train the children to be leaders. Pai does not follow his command and he kicks her out of the school for not listening to his ridiculous commands. Pai asked her uncle to train her to fight with the pole all the kids are forced to learn how to do. Pai's grandfather has task for all the young boys to complete but they all always fall short. While Pai is with her uncle she completes all the task her grandfather ask of the boys. Then one night that her grandfather called to the whales she called also and they came, and got beached on the shore. The whole tribe tried and tried to get the whales back in the water but they were not able to do so. Pai went out to see the main whale and motivated it to get back in the water, and in doing so she gave up her life. The tribe rescued her drowning body and took her to the hospital where she was revived and her grandfather accepted that Pai a girl was the chosen one.