Movie: Young Adam

Rating: [Edited Version] Rated R for strong sexual content, some disturbing behavior and language. [Uncut version] Rated NC-17 for some explicit sexual content.

Starring: Ewan McGregor, Tilda Winton, Emily Mortimer, Peter Mullen.

Summary: Based on the book by Alexander Trocchi, the story takes place somewhere in the 1950's and tells the story of Joe (McGregor) who doesn't have a plan of where he's going in his life and is a drifter currently working as a second-hand man with barge owners Leslie (Mullen) and his given-up-on-life wife, Ella (Tilda).

One day while at a stop on the barge, Joe happens to have discovered a woman's lifeless corpse wearing only a thin petticoat floating in the river. Both he and Leslie decide to fish it out and lay it down on the barge. Leslie goes to get a blanket to cover the body, and we soon see a questionable shot where Joe places his hand on the woman's bare skin and his expression is not easy to say, but the viewers watching will know Joe knows more about this woman's body than he reveals.

As questions are asked and the investigation for a suspect begins, Joe suddenly for some reason looks at Leslie's wife Ella in a whole different way. It is not fully explained but Joe unexpectedly starts a full-blown affair with Ella right under Leslie's nose.

As the present story continues, we are eventually taken back into Joe's past, the first scene of him meeting Cathy, of who was also that dead woman's corpse. Again, Joe begins an odd affair with her that's both disturbing and unpredictable. As we all know, this woman Cathy eventually dies and arouses the question: Was it suicide? Murder? An accident? Only Joe knows what happened the night of her death.

Opinions: In simpler words, you'll either love or hate this movie. Half of the critics I see love this movie and the story of one man and others feel it's pointless and the many sex scenes of the movie weren't needed. In my opinion, I loved this movie!

I have been interested in psychology and the study of human behavior for over a year now and this movie is so compelling and so confusing, but if you're a person who will take time to try to understand Joe's character more, the more you'll like the movie.

Just about every scene of this movie is questionable, and Joe is very unpredictable, which is what makes this movie so intriguing. The movie never tells you what Joe is thinking, only on the outside which makes him so interesting.

This movie isn't a who-did-it mystery concerning Cathy's death. The sum of the story focuses on Joe: his view on life, his usual questionable actions, and how he uses sex as a weapon while running from himself. After watching this movie, you may actually feel bad for Joe, even though the whole movie shows many shocking things he had done in the past. One scene involves an intense sexual assault involving Joe with catsup bottles and a bag of sugar. As David Mackenzie says, "Joe is a man on the run, from himself and from his conscience. He is rebellious, irresponsible and dangerous...He is a character who is about as far from innocent as you can get, but he is also not guilty."

One thing to also mention concerning the sex scenes. The sex in this movie that makes it stand out from other movies is that the characters seem to have no intimacy and it's often very cold sex, as I said before, a way of Joe to run from himself and make him feel better, although it never works. This sort of works for Swinton's character, Ella. She's a woman who has given up on life and happiness, which was why she fell for Joe so easily.

So to sum it all up, this movie is not a happy one and very dark. The sex is even not enjoyable, but that's not to say the movie's not enjoyable. This movie is not meant to be enjoyable and the ending will leave people in thoughts. I can't exactly say what makes this movie so intriguing but the whole aspect of Joe's human flaw and ambiguity will make many feel interested in wanting to know this man better and we may sometimes think, "We could've been in the same situation, and wouldn't we have done the same as him?"

Total: 9.7 out of 10 (This is a movie you'll either love-it or hate-it, but I for one, I loved it!)