Well, there are a few "oldies" from the classic prog/romantic scene ("Roundabout", "In the Court of the K.C." and "Fanfare for the common man") regarded as a bit "strident" in comparison to some more commercial/pop hit singles - and for this reason only you could erase an half star from my evalution. For instance "Heat of the moment" or "A Ride easy" could make me change idea about the present reunion...but it's a minor question: ok the execution of the above hits (e.g. inside "Heat of the moment", where S. Howe is not completely into the riff and the aggressive guitar sound of his original take dated 1981) and also their difficult intro concerning the progressive tune "Time again" (in this video performance quite stunning anyway, even though performed slowly), let me think that their pop songs have not been played with a great impact after all, but it's not true. I always like John Wetton on vocals, being almost aligned to his glory days and He's also very conscious of his role during his bass-guitar execution in general; then all the musicians play very well!!
So all these features don't change my first idea about the reunion, as well as my consequent personal rating.
I think of a band with such a great experience, even though the set of keyboards used by Downes is not always suitable for their oldies; therefore Steve Howe sometimes seems to be - just a little bit - a fish out of water (except on his fine Blues Intersection: well actually here I forget how this latter instrumental intermezzo was acclaimed in a controversial or cold manner during their recent concert in Italy - 2007 july, 23 at the gig of Asti Festival - but never mind, cause the enthusiastic acclamation regarding all the other tunes was great!!). Instead coming back to the guitar tracks and analyzing the particular guitar style, the harmonization within "Fanfare for the common man" and "Roundabout" show the top form of the old guitarist. Moreover this video performance, more than within the audio cd, demostrates how Steve is still great and quite funny also when He jumps during his guitar solos.Instead Palmer as usual is a precise drummer and even excellent during his drum solos... you can see his best approach within the classic instrumental track from "Works" by ELP, an ever green!!.
At the end forget a few breaks through only, where the whole band is not completely confident: the rythmical aspects I mean, above all where occasionally the timing of Downes keyboards or Steve at his mandolin in the acoustic set are not suitable,especially talking about their syncronization; but it's always a minor question, because the rest of the performance is memorable...Long Live Asia!!