I came to this film without having read the novel and without having seen the 1981 remake. Since I'm a fan of the film noir genre, I expected an engrossing evening. Though others clearly had a different experience, that's not what I got.

My first problem was that I didn't feel the sizzle between Garfield and Turner. A good half the time, Turner seemed to be posing rather than acting. Perhaps, however, that was a consequence of seeing it on a tiny screen. What really got in the way was the utter implausibility of some central plot assumptions.

Warning: spoilers ahead.

First, there's the matter of the ladder. Why, exactly would Cora have to leave the bathroom through the window? Other than providing a potential source of suspicion for the DA, the point of this twist was lost on me.

Perhaps I missed something there. What I can say for sure is that there were two other places where I didn't miss a thing. In order to get Cora to plead guilty to the lesser charge of manslaughter, the DA has agreed with her lawyer to ask the judge for leniency. Cora pleads guilty in open court. The judge passes sentence, caling for serious time in jail. But the DA approaches the bench and asks for the sentence to be reduced. Why? Because, the DA says, certain facts about the case would make it too hard to establish her guilt.

Say what? She's just pled guilty. Her guilt doesn't need to be established. It's now a legal fact. This isn't a minor glitch in the plot; it's sheer incoherence.

And then there's the final scene with Frank distraught that he is about to be executed for _Cora's_ murder -- Cora whom he loved and would never have killed. The DA sets his mind at ease: Cora left a note in the cash drawer. Since it was intended for Frank's eyes only, it would be credible in court. In that note, Cora pledges her love to Frank, but tells enough of the story of Nick's murder to make it clear that Frank was in on that. So, says the DA, you're not going to be exectuted for killing Cora. It will be for killing Nick.

Say what again? The state has now decided that he's innocent of the morder for which he was about to be gassed, but they're going to kill him anyway, on the premise that he's guilty of a murder for which he's never been tried and on evidence that no one has ever had a chance to rebut?

It's clear that for a good many viewers, these gaping holes in the plot are neither here nor there. In my case, they just made the story seem silly. If demanding at least a reasonable modicum of consistency isn't an issue for you, then by all means vote that this review wasn't helpful. But if you like your stories a little tighter, then see this film again and I think you'll see what I mean.