That was evident about the first 20 seconds of the news broadcast that never really mentioned or implied the DESCRIPTION or the SEX of the murderer.

And that was about the least apparent of the problems of this movie.  Where the film "HOSTEL" found a way of veiling horrendous acts in cinematic beauty, "neighbor"(lack of capitalization is purposeful) takes the grotesque and the ludicrous and disrobes them leaving all before you naked and distasteful (while in the background one can hear from the makers what may be the equivalent of the snickering belch of an infantile ten year drinking his first beer while reading some 3rd rate pulp graphic novel).

It would be difficult to tell just what are the worst aspects of this... er... production.

It could be the acting.  The actress portraying the murderess ran the gamut from not being able to feign lunatic concern with a frown to not convincing you of maniacal glee by smiling.  Wait - smiling and frowning are really not much of a gamut are they?  Except for one brief decent 45 second acting done by ADULT Tracy Toth in a bit role, it's truly bad.

Or could it be the dialogue?  Spoken prose possibly only inspired by dinner talk at some fraternity named DELTA UPSILON MU. (One wonders if they left off the BETA in order not to be quite so obvious.) At one point early in the story three of the characters are walking in an alley. Their conversation is about something they have just experienced:

"I can't believe it !?!"

"That movie was bad... that movie was just PLAIN BAD!

Hey, they could have written this review!

Even the gratuitous and unrelated music video thrown in on the DVD by some group with a name akin to "Pitiful Profit", "Lowered Expectations" or "Talent Discount" (why advertise the group's true moniker?) might get some votes.

Please tell us this was the fifth grade class project of the Woodrow Wilson Progressive School of the Arts, and that producers and actors were wearing lifts in their flip-flops attempting to be adults... PLEASE!