OK to a point on the Nazis, a catastrophe on Nietzsche.

This film is a series of three lucid and well-organized talks. In Part I, Hicks argues forcefully that Nazism was not some kind of contagious insanity, but rather a cogent worldview whose reasoning might be attractive to a lot of people.  In Part II, Hicks takes us on a superquick tour of N's most inflammatory statements, then offers a superquick course correction that doesn't quite acquit N.on charges of anti-Semitism and espousing "master/slave morality." In Part III, Hicks renders a split decision on whether N's philosophy gives aid and comfort to the Nazis. I nearly fainted when he said that N. offers support for governmental genetic engineering.

Hicks overlooks the critical fact that N. was a brilliant writer who described the views he rejected better than their own proponents did. Cut and pasted, these passages sound like the author espouses them, but for N. these were descriptions, not recommendations. Nietzsche was on record as a life-long opponent of anti-Semitism and a merciless critic of the nation-state. He was revolted by the idea of the superior German Volk, and condemned domination-morality in any form. It's a puzzle how, at this late date, Hicks can say anything else.

Two far better documentaries on the Nazis are available: "The Goebbels Experiment" (based on readings from G's diaries, showing how one talented and ambitious man opted for Nazism) and "The Architecture of Doom" (which presents Nazism as a serious aesthetic philosophy, thus agreeing with Hicks that it was a type of ruthless idealism).

For getting an accurate grasp on Nietzsche, books are better than films. Two superb works are "Nietzsche: The Man and His Philosophy" by R.J. Hollingdale, and "Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist" by Walter Kaufmann. They'll both give you the straight dope, but Hollingdale is the shorter book, easier to read because he folds the philosophy into the biography. Kaufmann is longer and more dense---following a brief biography, it becomes all philosophy, albeit developmentally presented. I'd call Kaumann accessible to the serious reader, but he might constitute "too much information" for a lot of people. I value these two works equally.