I'm not really sure what possessed me to rent this one - guess I just wanted to try something different (and it got stellar reviews from the professionals).  Boy was I in for a surprise! To be sure, it was different, just not in a good way. Had the film been more aptly titled (something like "Jack Goes to Sleep" or even "Jill Had the Good Sense to Clear Out Long Before They Made This Turkey"), a couple hours of my life that I will never get back certainly would have been better spent.

Dull character, dull dialogue and - spoiler alert! - dull plot. In your typical romantic comedy, you KNOW the guy is going to get the girl in the end, but the whole reason for watching is finding out how the two overcome numerous and improbable difficulties to become one in the forgone conclusion. Now don't get me wrong, the last thing the world needs is ANOTHER romcom; I'm merely pointing out that formula does produce the occasional flick worth watching. "Jack Goes Boating" messes with that formula on several levels. It's short on both romance and comedy, and long on, well, being long. Middle-aged and dysfunctional Connie is frigid in a lukewarm sort of way. Her paramour, the middle-aged and dysfunctional Jack, is socially inept and sports the homeless look, which is curious, considering his profession as a limo driver. Early in the movie, Jack hooks up with Connie, and there's never any reason for them to break up, so they don't. That's the story, with some padding and a subplot not worth going into here. Really, the whole thing could have been comfortably fit into a 90-second trailer. To beef up this paltry scrap into a full-length feature, the filmmakers show Jack learning how to swim and taking cooking lessons. One action-packed scene has Jack filling out a job application AND submitting it to a prospective employer! In the spirit of public service, the fimmakers use "Jack Goes Boating" as a vehicle to point out the rather obvious - an unintended consequence of drug use can include burnt casserole. Perhaps most surprisingly, our new couple overcomes their sexual difficulties when Connie talks Jack into raping her! I know, I know, I know, it sounds crazy (but it's true, smoking hash really can be the death of an otherwise perfectly good dinner).

And that, folks, is "Jack Goes Boating." Problem is, my review makes the movie sound more interesting than it really is.

Somewhere in "Jack Goes Boating" there probably is some good filmmaking and solid acting. I just couldn't find either  in this movie that ran aground, went dead in the water and got lost at sea simultaneously. Next time you're at the video store, save yourself a few bucks (and a couple hours of your life you'll never get back) by passing this up and experience something a little more meaningful, entertaining and moving. Like continental drift.