It's not hard  to see why madonna jumped on remaking this much enjoyed classic. The socio-political-class-drama pitting a low rent man against a spoilt rich-B*%$# makes for a brilliant, satirical screenplay (even if the sappy ending is totally uninspired). UN-fortunately, this ultimate vanity project is nothing but a disaster,literally, at sea. Every critic who threw rotten tomatoes at this silly mess of a movie deserves major applause. Rambo-armed, designer dressed Madonna simply cannot disappear into the skin of another character, even if indeed that character is supposed to be everything her "persona" is: Opinionated, rude,glamorous,aggressive, tough and demanding. Goldie Hawn was far more effective (and hilarious) when she played the same pampered-rich-demanding-B*%#@  also having major fits over silly nothings on a sailing vessel in the film Overboard. Mr.Giannini,who plays "Pepe",(the target of her wrath) is a very likable, smart, ruggedly handsome, furry, unwashed, bedroom-eyed hunk who does his best, but fails to keep the film from stinking...er..I mean sinking. The never ending extra-gooey footage of them after he successfully breaks her down , saddles her up and has her submissively purring resembles a nauseating informercial for a romantic club-med. A vulnerable, love-sick character in the unskilled hands of Madonna is impossible to believe and have any sympathy for.  Everyone else in the film is forgetable...except for the casting choice of the two old-school-cartoon-grubby cooks (very three stooges) on board. It's rather odd considering the crew are supposedly bending-over-backwards catering to the aesthetically demanding filthy-rich. Shouldn't the chefs have been some gym-bunny-pretentious stove queens? Hell ,she should have tossed in two of her six pack ready-dancer boys! The biggest lesson would be for Mr. Richie to (at all costs) avoid teaming up with the Mrs....no matter what script drifts their way. And for the accomplished and celebrated Mrs. Richie to stick to "acting" in her area of expertise: creating innovative, memorable, delightfully entertaining music videos and posing in her provocative photo essays...oh, and of course, saving the world and focusing the world's attention on the urgent needs of beautiful,proud but shockingly  poor and ingnored Africans in the 21st century. Smarter (less vain) film choices could possibly bring in more money, which would then benefit her multiple charities AND maybe even add value to the madonna BRAND.