I haven't read the book, so I can't say how faithful it is to the book or comment on the plot or whatever. As a production, the TV series succeeded in making Gormenghast seem like a huge, isolated, crumbling, bewildering place full of rituals and social hierarchy. The beginning looks like "Labryinth", with colourful, fantasy-looking scenery. The castle seems to be made of old painted mud, not brick or stone. 
The weird mix of clothing and technology made the series seem even more odd. The ladies wear medieval dress, SteerPike the villian wears regency/victorian dress, and the guards wear world war era uniforms. Towards the end of the series, the medieval wizard-like offices of the secretary look like fascist headquarters, complete with filing units built into the wall. The boats seem like Venetian gondolas, they have modern black umbrellas, yet the Countess and her women look like they're from Elizabeth I's court (to my common layman's eye).
Everybody is weird, and there is no one to like until Titus grows up. The kitchen boy seems like a nice person at first,as we follow his adventures through the castle, but then he becomes a bitter, ruthless murderer. The young daughter, Lady Fushia, is a spoilt, selfish shallow girl. And everyone else is worse. Even the nursemaid, an outcast from her own people, is kind to the baby Titus, but tries to subvert him to take care of her own daughter. The characters are all very weird. 
When Titus grows up, he becomes a good man, someone I can finally like in the very long TV series. But then he starts making out with his foster sister. Ew, gross. In Canada, at least, foster-, step-, adopted- and related-by-marriage-sisters are treated the same as blood sisters when it comes to marital law, so the fact that he can want to kiss his foster sister is supremely icky to me. But then, I get grossed out by blood cousins getting married in Jane Austen's novels, so maybe it's just me.
I liked the ending, the scenery (even if bewildering), and I'm really glad I watched the TV series instead of trying to read the novel as some of the characters are really weird and annoying.
I'm rating this 4 stars because if the books have such weird scenery, characters and atmosphere, the BBC did a fantastic job bringing it to the small screen.