I went to this movie last night for the 4th time.  I loved it the first time, and every time I see it I love it more than the time before!  I would go see it every day if I could.  Ever since I first heard about it over a year ago I've been counting the days until it came out, although I just couldn't wrap my mind around Tom Cruise as a rock star.  Well, he certainly is!!!  He was sensational as Stacie Jaxx.  Who knew Tom Cruise could, not just sing, but  PERFORM  like that?!?!  And Julianne Hough is amazing!  I've always been in awe of her dancing, and now we find out she can sing and act also!!!  Actually the whole cast was incredible!  I thought the character played by Paul Giamatti was somewhat despicable (I suppose someone had to be) so I could have done without that, but he did play the role really well.  And Russell Brand was hilarious!!!  As for Diego Boneta - I don't know where he came from, but I bet we'll be seeing, and hearing, a lot more of him!  He was GREAT!  Alec Baldwin, Malin Akerman, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Mary J Blige, they were all magnificent - as was the movie as a whole!

I thought this movie was beyond GREAT!  The music was already great, but even greater in this movie since all the actors did their own singing!  It's a real "feel good" movie.  Not only is it hard to not just get up and dance and sing along while you're watching it, it has you dancing and singing out of the theater!  My mother (who will be 85 next month) even loved it!  She's seen it twice herself!  Everyone should see this movie!  As for the not-so-great reviews it's gotten, either the critics didn't actually see it, or they have a twisted idea of what is just plain ole make-you-feel-good, uplifting, fun - and funny - entertainment!  Believe it or not, there actually are a lot of people who would rather watch something as magnificent as Rock of Ages than a bunch of violence and gore!  I learned years ago not to listen to what critics say.  99% of the time they don't have a clue what they're talking about!

So to wrap it up, it was INCREDIBLE!!!  I can't wait until it comes out on DVD!!!