Absolutely, without a doubt, my all-time nostalgic favorite Christmas movie from childhood!  And I imagine this is true for many, many others as well.

I think perhaps my favorite memories of Christmases of childhood revolve around waiting anxiously for Rudolph to air on TV.  Anyone here remember the days long ago when you got ONE chance to watch it each year, and that was IT?

As much as I adore our modern age of DVDs and the ability to watch a well-loved film over and over, this is one instance where I find it kind of sad.  I recall excitedly purchasing this DVD for my kids, only to find that the fact they could watch it over and over made it a rather mundane experience (I have since made a strict policy in my home that each of our Christmas movie favorites are to be treasured ONCE each season, just as in my own childhood.  Strict?  Maybe.  Worth it? You bet!).

Romeo Muller, known for his many heart-warming, classic children's animated Christmas films, hit the proverbial home run with Rudolph.  The varied and colorful well-loved characters alltogether formed the finest collection of Christmas personas of all time.  Sam the Snowman (voiced magically by Burl Ives -- who can ever forget "Have a Holly Jolly Christmas"?), Rudolph ("She thinks I'm cuuuute!"), Hermy the elf that wanted to be a dentist ("I'll never fit in!"), Santa and Mrs. Claus ("Eat, Santa, eat! Whoever heard of a skinny Santa?"), Yukon Cornelius ("Mush! Muuuush!"), The Abominable (terrifying when I was a child, delightfully goofy now that I'm a supposed grown-up), and of course all of the mis-fit toys ("Whoever heard of a CHARLIE in the box?!").

How about instead of continuing my heartfelt ramblings about my favorite Christmas treat of young childhood, I urge any of you who have not seen Rudolph (i.e., those who have lived on another planet) to get a copy pronto and enjoy it (or better yet, share it with your children).

For those of you who have seen it, but haven't in a long time -- please, indulge yourself!  Get a copy (or at least rent it), pop some popcorn and make some hot cocoa, and soak up the warm memories.  You won't regret it.

Oh, and Have a Holly Jolly Christmas!! : )