I grew up watching the Waltons as a kid, and have been watching this film either on VHS or DVD for many years now.  It's become a tradition with our family to pop the DVD in multiple times at Christmas.  Even my 6-year old daughter has started memorizing some of the lines.  There are so many moments in this film that stand out, with fantastic character actors in every role, including Edgar Bergen (Grandpa Walton), Ellen Corby (Grandma Walton) and Cleavon Little (Hawthorne Dooley).  Some of the lines are classic...I especially love the one from the (apparently well-off) Charlottesville missionary that brings toys to the children in exchange for a bible verse recitation.  According to her reasoning, why go preaching to heathen overseas "when the Blue Ridge Mountains are full of them."  I find that particularly amusing considering I have relatives that lived in the Blue Ridge.

The film gives you a wonderful perspective on what it was like to live in a big family in the Shenandoah during the Depression.  People today that talk about this country going into a Depression have no idea what a real Depression is like.  Mom spending her last dollar buying some sugar to make a Christmas cake, or knitting a scarf for each of your kids and telling your eldest "that's all the Santa Claus there was going to be this year" would certainly open the eyes of our video-game obsessed children of today.  The movie re-enforces what is truly important in life...family, friends and high moral values...also the theme of living off of cash, not credit -- what a concept in today's world.

John Boy's Christmas Eve adventure searching for his snowstorm-stranded father is some of the most fun 30 minutes in film.  From Ike's store where poor ol' Charlie Sneed has finally had his Robin Hood escapades terminated by the Sheriff, to Hawthorne Dooley's church where the kids put on a classic Christmas Eve Nativity performance, to the Baldwin ladies' house where John Boy and Hawthorne participate in a bit of "recipe" sampling in order to finagle some gasoline from the ladies, and eventually end up on a jingle bell ride in a one-horse open sleigh out in the snow...it's classic stuff.

I dare you to not feel some kind of emotion at the end of this film...something you will not get from most modern Christmas productions.  It's sad that films like this are not made any more...hopefully the day will return when they are.  For now, thank goodness for DVD so we can relive high-quality family shows like this any time we want.  Some day the networks and studios (including Disney) will realize that there is still a large untapped market for live-action productions such as this that celebrate families and good story-telling.  We need them now more than ever.