I was never a big fan of ECW during its prime. When I first discovered it, back in I think 1995, I thought it was interesting because it was so much more out of control than the then WWF, but I was hardly consider myself a fan.

This DVD however was interesting to me. Since there is no competition anymore, I wanted to see and hear why ECW was considered so great. Done with the DVD production that only the WWE can do.

The actual feature is just shy of 3 hours, and is very involved. It goes into all aspects of the company and talks with all the major players involved. I really enjoyed the frankness that Tommy Dreamer, Taz, Bischoff, Vince and Paul Heyman all talked about the product. Many guys you can tell miss it. It was great to see a guy like Heyman, with such a vision and a passion to make his idea grow, and it takes a hell of a man to admit when it's over.

This takes a look at just about the entire run of ECW from the inception to the first pay per view to the closing of it's doors and Paul Heyman emerging in the WWE. It is very hard to say how well this is all put together, but it is done really well.

For true fans there might be things missing, but I personally felt that I now understand why it was so popular, and quite honestly after seeing it, you can see especially now how watered down the WWE is, not so much the wrestling, but the characters. You also can truly feel how influential they were in changing the style of wrestling and use of talent. A very gracious Rey Mysterio Jr. thanks Paul Heyman for being involved in getting his name known in the states.

The DVD goes into history of angles, and how certain stories were told. To hear Heyman talk with such passion, this is a man that loved wrestling. You can tell he hates to see it go. If the WWE was smart this guy would be the top creative guy, he has vision, just don't let him near the money.

Do I wish there was more? Of course. This could have easily been a 3-disc set. I wish there was more RVD and I wish more time was spent of Steve Austin. Chris Jericho talks about ECW, but unfortunately he doesn't get a match on the disc (maybe they'll put one on his DVD one day) As for the extras, well I haven't watched them yet, but I can tell you I would have enjoyed seeing a lot more RVD, especially the RAW match from 1997 vs. Jeff Hardy (I know that wasn't exactly an ECW match, but it was during the cross promotion era) I would love to have that match in DVD quality. Plus I think that at a mere 7 matches, that does not do justice to showing what ECW is all about. All in all an excellent DVD that satisfies the "Hardcore fans" as well as the uninitiated.