Gods And Generals is one of those love it or hate it movies. I love it. Would I love it without my already existing interest in the subject matter? No, probably not.

The story is too unfocused for those who aren't interested in digging deep into the humanity behind the history. The original theatrical release tried to address that by cutting just over an hour of finished film from the story and focusing primarily on Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson. This seems like a good decision on the surface. Jackson was certainly a character primed for greater exposure. One of those names almost everyone has heard and yet only a few really know, his story makes a great pitch product. And not only because he was arguably one of the greatest military minds of the nineteenth century.

Like another American general who greatly admired him, Jackson's great positives were balanced by eccentricities that make him a fascinating character. But unlike the successful transfer to film made with the life of George S. Patton, this treatment won neither critic's accolades nor box office bounty.

The deficiency is not in trying to say too little, but in trying to say too much. The film Gods and Generals, like Gettysburg before it, is a labor of love from Ted Turner and Ronald F. Maxwell. The later produced "prequel" shares the wonderful source material, the superlative acting and the eye for authenticity. But Gettysburg had a natural advantage for a film version... the battle lasted three days. Those three days form an arc that limits the desires of the producer and director to tell more story, and that moves the film inexorably to a certain conclusion.

Gods and Generals covers a period of roughly three years. And it shows.

As an illustration of history, it shines. The film tells stories worth telling. And it has its flashes of genius, especially when it concentrates on the humanity of these men. In particular, the intense love between Jackson and his wife Anna. Rarely has a film about a man of war so concentrated on the love he bears his family. When Jackson holds his infant daughter for the first time, to the great applause of his men, it is hard to be untouched.

It is also hard to make it through the film without gaining a far greater appreciation for the valor of the men and women who suffered what is unquestionably the most trying time in American history. The nation lost two and a half percent of its population to the Civil War, almost six hundred thousand souls. As horrible as that sounds, the equivalent percentage today would be around seven million. Whole towns were empty of young men of military age at the end of the conflict.

The newest version of the film, released last year as a Director's Cut on Blu-Ray, addresses the problem by splitting the narrative into five parts and restoring the once removed footage. It is a positive change. Watch the five hours over the course of a week and let the impact be felt without the distraction of glancing at the clock. You'll be fascinated by the extra attention to detail and enjoy the information about Robert E. Lee, Joshua Chamberlain and the citizens and soldiers of the era.

It's worth seeing, and everything you see is remarkably accurate for a piece focusing as much on entertainment as history. And the filmmakers very deliberate decision to tone down the gore and bloodshed makes the piece more accessible for a general audience. But unless you are a true fan of Civil War history, don't try to take it all in a single sitting.

~ James Glass for Glass House Reviews
(c) 2012 Glass House Reviews