Erin Brockovich is an exciting, motivating, movie for all people who might need a confidence boost. This is a movie about a young average woman searching for jobs to help raise her family. It has both physical and mental thoughts. If you are looking for a genuine movie, this is a great movie for you to watch as Erin works as a lawyer helping people sue a poisoning water company.

As the movie begins we watch as Erin Brockovich begins searching hopelessly but excited for jobs. The first job interviewer does not say anything to her after her interview, that's probably a no. As the movie continues Erin begins searching even for more jobs, as for one day she gets hit by a car and gets a lawyer. Of course the defendants' lawyer has to try and annoy Erin to get the truth out of her. Erin ends up not winning and because of her loss she demands her lawyer for a job. At first he says no but then he gives her a chance and that's when Erin's job search finally ends. As her first case she investigates about a contaminated water company PG & E. At first no one believes her when she tells them that the water they drink, bathe in, and  swim in, is contaminated with an illegal chemical chromium 6. Later on all of her clients start coming to her with information and things that have been happening to their families. Finally they start believing that it is not just for the money.

Later  on watching the movie it disappoints me how it never shows much scenes of Erin in Trial with the company. For example, it shows a scene with a judge but then it goes to another scene immediately. It was pointless when the movie took  me from one place to another. For example, when Erin was done arguing with one of her clients about how all she is trying to do is help , it skips all the way back to her job scene. Another thing I disliked was that the ending was practically clich&eacute;d it was as if..."and they lived happily ever after". For example, the ending was that something good happens and then it just shows how how she keeps on going to other towns solving cases about the PG & E company.

Obviously between all these scenes, I did enjoy how this movie was unique, it did not copy of other stories or have its crazy ups and downs scenes. Also this is a very realistic/inspiring movie, (its based on a true story). This can happen again anywhere in the world. For example, there could be another lawyer or person investigating about something that is harming and affecting humans and getting paid for it. Another thing is that I loved whenever she had something negative come by, she still didn't give up and stop the case.

If you are looking for a good heart felt movie, this is the movie for you. It is filled with good confidence thoughts and messages. It had many real life objectives. Erin Brockovich is a genuine movie.