I've only recently discovered the greatness that is the writing of Hunter S. Thompson. Like many before and the many that'll come after, there was no correlation when I saw Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas between Raoul Duke and some guy named Thompson. I knew it was a book. I knew it was written by Hunter Thompson and that's really it. For some reason, I figured this was a completely fictional story, and in some ways it was, but more importantly is that it was mostly not fiction. Having read scraps here and there from Hey Rube, (HST's column on "Page 2" of ESPN.com) I was still only partially familiar with his work before he died.

Even though he couldn't fight back all the political commentary (and who would want him to?) in Hey Rube, it was much more light hearted than most of the stuff in The Great Shark Hunt and Songs of the Doomed which come closer to mixing journalism, horror, comedy, and political editorials than anything I've ever read. That sounds like a bass flavored milkshake on the first notion of mixing those things, but it plays out well and really makes what Fear and Loathing fails to communicate a real tragedy. More of my generation could use a dose of HST, drug use or no.

That said, this movie was preceded by my viewing of "Breakfast with Hunter," a documentary leading up to and during the filming of Fear and Loathing, and Fear and Loathing in Gonzovision, a BBC documentary that follows Hunter and illustrator Ralph Steadman halfway across the country to Hollywood for no particular reason. While the documentaries didn't really have any sort of narrative, (nor does this review by now) it does give more insight into "the man, the myth, the legend."

That said, I'll finally make my point. Bill Murray comes closer to nailing the real mannerisms and speaking patterns of Thompson than Johnny Depp, which most people unfairly attribute to Depp with now real basis other than comparing the two performances without any groundwork laid to understand the origin of the character. Fear and Loathing is really a bastardization of HST in a definitive sense because Raoul Duke was meant to pry HST away from reality a bit and allow him more creative freedom. That was the essence of his definition of gonzo journalism. Most journalists cover a story, while a true gonzo journalist would have the wonderful problem of separating himself from the story, which makes for a more fictional pacing.

Fear and Loathing is Duke as portrayed by Depp as he portrayed Thompson. There was no real way that Depp could have portrayed Thompson because he was setting out to intertwine Thompson with Duke's dialog, which Hunter said all along was a character he made up to attribute quotes to, that no one else would say.