This season totally changed a tired concept of a long running show. It added new characters and opened so many new doors to the future of the show.
Gillian Anderson portrays a pregnant and emotional Scully, perfectly. Shes vulnerable and missing Mulder. We are introduced to John Doggett played by Robert Patrick whose on full time, whilst Monica Reyes played by Annabeth Gish is introduced half way as a part time character.
This season returns to the horror roots, much like season one, which was much needed at this point. It has some of my all time favourite episodes such as Roadrunners, Per Manum, This is Not Happening and Existence. 
People complain that Mulder and Scully didnt get enough time together in this season, Mulder had cameos and needed to be centric, his abduction experiences and Scully's pregnancy wasnt discussed enough and the writers didnt make enough effort to show that Scully was still searching for Mulder in the stand alone episodes, i totally agree, but it didnt stop me enjoying this season completely which i hadn't done since season four. 
Its the most underrated season and should have definately ended the show with a fantastic episode and closing scene. It shouldnt have continued into an unecessery season nine which pushed the show and the two leads too far, they simply had lost interest, along with the fans.
Watch this season with an open mind, ignore what disappointed fans say and see for yourself. It isnt the same without classic stand alone invesitgations by mulder and scully, but Doggett is definately a character that grows on you, working well with Gillian Anderson. You will be blown away by her acting this season. 
Fans fail to understand that this season beats season seven hands down. Its definately a suprise how well the x files can work without david duchovny. His absence is very well explained this season, unlike the plain awful way he's written out in season nine. 
Dont have high hopes for season nine after watching this classic season, it doesnt justify the show at all. What a shame it didnt end here.