It is the unspecified near future.  The Setting is Old Detroit.  A multi-corporation has taken control of numerous aspects of the American industry, including the police department.  After a failed product demonstration with a proposed 'urban pacification' droid, a young executive for the company, OCP, takes hold of the situation.  They will create a cyborg from a slain officer, melding man with machine.
So begins Robocop, one of the 80s most action-packed and surprisingly intelligent sci-fi actioners ever.  Though the film has lost a lot of its punch since its initial release in 1987, it still remains to this day an action-packed thrill ride.  The action is literally non-stop; you rarely get a chance to catch your breath.  One thing I think people overlook or sometimes flat out omit in this movie is its intelligence.  It is much brainier than the standard action fare.  Here are some examples:
Corporate business practices: These were frequently discussed in the 80s.
Yuppies: Or young Urban Professionals are a target here as well.  They were snotty rich kids in the 80s that felt the world owed them for their mere existence, and they could just take all they darn well wanted.  Look at Bob Morton and Dick Jones and tell me they don't represent the Yuppies stereotypes of the day.
With those being said, the film is unabashedly a product of the mid 80s: a school is even called Lee Iacocca Elementary, named after the 1980s businessman who advocated foreign imports. The movie is such an extreme satire, it comes across like a dark comedy at times.  The film has an advertisement of the whimsical "NUKEM" board game (a family game. Ha-ha!), and the cynical media were all derivative of 80s culture.  Even the "Star Wars" Strategic Defense Initiative Organization (SDIO) gets an honorable mention.
A common discussion about this movie is the violence.  It is indeed very violent, that being said, it will repel those who come into it not knowing what to expect. The generic-sounding title and innocuous cover reveals nothing: it just looks like another run-of-the-mill 80s action flick.  But as gory as it can get, I feel people have a tendency to exaggerate it a bit. The violence has been tamed by today's standards.  It's not that it wouldn't still be an 'R', but since its release, so many movies have adopted this type of violence, and even surpassed it. The most violent scenes for me are as follows: The ED-209 malfunction, Murphy's death, and the subsequent deaths of his murderers, particularly the now-infamous melting man sequence.  But the first and last I just mentioned are so overblown, they become comical. The ED-209 death is such overkill (no pun intended), it becomes humorous.  After getting torn to bits by bullets, one of the executives even quips: "Can we get a paramedic?" A Paramedic: You mean coroner, don't you? LOL!  However, Murphy's death to this day, is gruesome and sadistic, and it is meant to be. Verhoeven wanted the audience to be outraged, to feel for the character, since at this point we barely know him. But when he gets brought back, and liberates his death and his humanity (with OCP using his body against his will), what you receive in return is an amazingly gratifying experience.  With the exception of the squeamish, this is must-see 80s action.