Farscape is one of the most fascinating shows (not just sci-fi) to grace the airwaves. It's a shame that the series was cancelled, but the DVD's will leave a wonderful legacy.
Pilots are akward for any show since, in the span of an hour, they must introduce the main characters and their relationships to each other as well as create the environment in which they live. Science fiction pilots have the added burden of establishing where in the universe (and when in time) the stories occur, showing how technology has advanced (or in some cases retreated), sketching out new cultures and basically setting forth what are the new rules. "Pilot" does an admirable job all around. Not only do we become familiar with all six major characters (seven if you include Moya), but it also sets up the wonderful paradox that makes the series so compelling in the first season: namely that each character has his/her own agenda but they must work together to survive. This definitely ain't Star Trek. "I, E.T." is a neat bit of storytelling in that it turns a cliched story on its head: this time we are the invading aliens. Not a major story, but still enjoyable in the way it evokes a sense of wonder.
Both episodes feature commentaries and while they are both enlightening into the way Farscape first came into being, Claudia Black's and Anthony Simcoe's banter during I, E.T. is definitely the more fun of the two (would love to see them at a con!) Two featurettes are offered. First is a "behind-the-scenes" documentary, which acts more as a primer for the uninitiated than a behind the scenes, though there is a fascinating segment on the process used to make D'Argo's costume (Plus seeing Anthony out of make-up. Yikes!). The second featurette is less a "Video Profile" of John Crichton and more Ben Browder's persepective on the series as a whole, which is more interesting anyways. Of the two still galleries, I prefer the Conceptual Drawings which include some early ideas of Peacekeeper weapons and Pilot's den over the Crichton Gallery, as many of those pictures are either a) taken from the DVD covers, b) awash in a garish red light, or c) both. Any complaints I may have, though, are small and pale beside the strengths of the rest of the disc.