The Rite is a very good movie despite the horrible critic reviews.  Having missed it in theaters I rented it on Amzon's video on demand.  Like the Exorcism of Emily Rose, this is not a horror film.  If you are looking to be scared, this is not the movie for you. Though most horror films are more disgusting than scary.

The Rite begins with the character of who Michael Kovac fed up with working in his father's mortuary. He wants to leave but can't pay for college. So he decides to join the seminary so as to get a college education for free, even though he personally believes in nothing.  When he graduates, Micheal attempts to resign, but the priest he sends his resignation to is not fooled and indirectly threatens to force him to pay back the cost of his education.  He doesn't do this out of spite, but because he sees something in Micheal that Micheal doesn't see in himself.  Reluctantly, Micheal agrees to go to Rome for two month to study exorcism with the notion that if when he gets back and still wants to resign, he can without repercussions.

While in Rome, Michael challenges the professor of the exorcism course thereby publicly announcing his own doubts.  He is later sent to work with an older priest, Father Lucas, who is an exorcist and has been in the trade for some time. Lucas immediately shows Michael a possessed pregnant girl as proof of the existence of the devil. They continue to work on saving the possessed girl, who later dies in the movie. I like the scene where they first meet.  Fr. Lucas doesn't waste time with chit chat, he just immediately gets into the matter. Also, Michael meets a female reporter named Angeline while in Rome. They connect and become friends. At least the script writers decided to not put a romantic interest between them. Alice Braga does a good job of playing the professional reporter who connects with Michael as she too searches for the truth and has something in common with him.

As the movie progresses Michael is forced to face his inner demons. The flashbacks in the movie let the viewer know that he lost his faith when his mother died, but had obviously hung on to a bit of it as he has spent his whole life searching for the truth about God and the Devil. Colin O'Donoghue does an excellent job playing the doubting Michael as he is forced to face actual cases of possession and admit that maybe the devil is real. Never once did I think his performance was forced. He was able to display the character's inner turmoil and the fact that Michael truly cares about these people that Lucas takes him to. At one point he challenges the older Fr. Lucas saying that the pregnant girl needs a psychiatrist more than a priest. Even though you can tell that even he is wondering if maybe she is possessed as she knows things about his past that no one knows about.

Anthony Hopkins does a superb job as Father Lucas. When you first meet him he is a get down to business type and seems a bit off putting.  As the movie continues Hopkins manages to demonstrate the emotional side of the character without it seeming cheesy or forced. There is a scene in which Father Lucas is clearly distraught over the young girl's death. It is a very emotional scene that even you will feel Fr. Lucas' pain as he breaks down and cries and pleads with Michael to not let the devil destroy his soul like he destroyed the girl's. Hopkins also does a great job portraying the demonic taking over of the older priest until the final exorcism scene at the end. In that scene Hopkins puts a certain amount of class into it. Whereas in the Exorcist and in Emily Rose the final exorcism scene immediately starts with screaming and cussing and anything shocking that Hollywood can throw in; in The Rite, the final showdown with the devil starts off with the possessed Fr. Lucas displaying a certain amount of calm and class that only Hopkins can provide. He gets in Micheal and Angeline's heads instead on yelling insults at them.  Then, he slowly progresses into a more antagonistic character until he physically assaults Michael and the female reporter.

Naturally the movie ends with Lucas being purified of his demons, which is good because I hate sad endings. Michael takes his vows and maintains his newfound belief in God and the reality of the devil/evil. I like the parting scene between Micheal and Fr. Lucas. It's not overly sentimental, but there is a chemistry between the characters & actors where they have a newfound respect for each other as they have both witnessed something few ever see.

Like I said, the movie is not scary. I found it to be more of a spiritual journey type film that concerns Michael and Lucas as they both face their own failings and learn to accept that evil does exist and only with God can it be fought. But the movie also does not ignore science. Even the character of Lucas admits that there are a lot of supposed possession cases where the person is truly mentally ill. The exorcist is there when science can't explain what's wrong with an individual. The movie does leave it up to you the viewer to decide if you believe in the devil, or  science. It does provide believable resolution for the characters as they accept what's happened and move on with their lives.

The quality of the movie was very good.  I rented the SD version on video on demand. It loaded quickly and there were no problems with playback. Not once did it look pixelated. It actually felt like I was watching a DVD.  I may buy this on DVD when the price goes down some.  I recommend this movie to anyone that likes a good drama and isn't expecting another Exorcist movie.  Understand that there is no pea soup, spinning heads, or masturbating 12 year old girls.