i eagerly awaited June 3rd for this disc to come out. forget T2 extreme edition, forget Animatrix. GIMME X FILES! i keep wondering if i'm the last X-Files fan left on Earth. 
regarding the story itself, it's pretty bland. at the end of season 5 the "x files dept" of the fbi was disbanded and mulder+scully are "reassigned" onto other departments of which is the beginning of this movie "fight the future". this movie feels like an episode of the x-files, a very very bad one, that doesn't even surpass the widescreen bermuda triangle episode. at the end of this movie (i won't spoil it) takes you to season 6 and so on and so forth. as a standalone movie chris carter is trying to do waaay too much. if you were making a movie, just make a GOOD one. don't give me the "let me attract both new audiences and fanboys" cause you will fail miserably! and that's what happened to "fight the future". you can't be BOTH! just make the best possible movie without trying to please anyone but yourself! the moment you try and target a artistic medium to an 'audience' is th moment the artist himself sold out. we got another very 'dumb+dumberer' 2 episodes of the series itself contained in a movie. well what's the point? with just a few minutes of character interaction in the first half hour then the rest of th movie is spent as one big action sequence after another with little character building. i mean a movie should be BIG and epic but this one feels so SMALL and insignificant! pick any season opener/ending of the series X Files and the small television screen will display the larger scope of the X Files. what i mean is it's the moments of character interaction LEADING up to the action sequences that make a movie important, not the action itself. i hope they don't try to please everyone again with the sequel to the X Files movie. in fact let's hope they spend all these years since '98 working on the script/idea of pleasing themselves (or in Chris's case himself) instead of trying to appease everyone else.
i was going to go right out to the store and buy it right on that date instead of ordering here on Amazon but then i thought... i don't think i would be able to find it since it's such an obscure title in the grand scheme of movies such as Gladiator or Matrix. so i gave up and ordered. and it didn't take long (thx Amazon ;) nearly a few days after i popped in the movie into my huge 5.1 surround sound HTPC (Home Theater Personal Computer)... it doesn't disappoint at all! the visual quality was awe-inspiring. the anamorphic transfer dipped into 9megabits/second at times! that means you it's a VERY high resolution transfer (just like superbits) i tried the Dolby Digital 448kps and DTS 768kps and the surround sound is unbelievable. i liked how the implosion of the fed building rocked my subwoofer. i also liked the hovering ship at the end but i won't spoil you further.
the positives aside i was vastly disappointed that the deleted scenes and extras from the pervious incarnation of this movie on DVD weren't included. the original disc was simply letterboxed, that means less resolution of the movie, and the Dolby Digital was 300ish, lackluster compared to DTS. i never bought that DVD cause i knew one day Fox or Chris Carter was bound to update the XF disc into a "SE". i always liked to own the "definitive" edition of things. like T2, i tohught "Ultimate Edition" was it but now i come to find out there's another one. anyway i thought this disc was it. now that date has arrived but they stripped out everything that was on the 'frist edition' DVD that came out. there wasn't even a 2nd disc with extras on it. this disc plays like a bastard child that has weathered more share of trouble in its life. it comes out on top at the end with very nice quality presentation. that's why i'm giving it 2 stars. for me... it was an emotional roller coaster ride, i waited half a decade for a DVD of The X-Files Fight the Future and this is what came my way? it's apparent to me now that Chris Carter+gang do not really care much for the fans of th series just like George Lucas. even if XF2 movie comes out i doubt it'll ever surpass the first 5 years of the X-Files series on television. Carter told us to Trust No One but now We can't trust Carter.