When I was ten years of age, my mother's uncle gave me his copy of Cornelius Ryan's A Bridge Too Far book. This was a very special gift from him, since he has been deported to Germany to work for the Reich during WWII and never recovered mentaly from what had happened to him. At the time I got the book, he was living in a small village, some miles west of Arnhem, on the southbank of the Rijn river. Obvious, I was to young to read the book at that time.
Over the years my interest in WWII and operation Market Garden started to grow, and every time A Bridge Too Far was broadcast, I watched it. The scenes depicting the drops of the paratroopers and the Waal river assault were the ones mostly remembered. That, and the great musical score by John Addison.
I finaly bought the DVD, and watched it a few times since. I must say that with every time I watch it, the movie gets better and better. Especially with the close captions: first those specifying at which location we are. Without these, one could get confused at where the viewer was brought from one scene to another. Secondly, since English is not my native language, I got to understand some of the dialogues more better. (Finaly got to understand what Liv was trying to say in Dutch =)
The widescreen option is fantastic. You really get into the battle scenes and to see all the extra imagery... for example when John Frost's batalion is entering Arnhem, you see people riding on bikes in the background, which you can't see in the pan and scan version.
But with such a great medium as DVD, and also with the movies 25th anniversary last year, MGM and United Artists missed out on a great chance. It is a shame the only extra is the original theatrical trailer. I really would have liked to see extra behind the scene footage included on a second disc. The Dutch Broadcasting Company (NOS) must have a lot of file footage, I remember the news broadcast often spending time on the filming on the movie, such as the re-enacted droppings. Beside that footage, the studio must have extra footage as well. They could even produce a new documantary on filming this movie, including interviews with the main actors and Sir Richard Attenborough. And how about original footage and notes on the battle as it took place?
Despite this miss, it is still a must buy if you're into war and/or classic movies. After 25 years it still holds it's own, and still is a thrill to watch. Buy it, and meanwhile keep hoping for a DVD special edition.
I give this DVD 4 stars, but if they had included the extra material, it would easily get 5 stars!