The 13th Warrior, directed by John McTiernan, is the tale of young Arab ambassador Ahmahd ibn Fahdalan (Antonio Banderas), who's banished from his homeland for loving the wrong woman. On his journeys he meets up with an  encampment of Norsemen who's King has just died. Fahadalan (Banderas) is  swept into becoming the 13th man of a group burdened with having to travel  back to their homeland to confront an evil threat that's bound in such  superstition they're forbidden to speak its name. After being prophesied by  a soothsayer witch that 13 warriors must confront the evil (and of course  the 13th chosen man must not come from the north), Banderas is suddenly  thrown in with these heroes (somewhat against his will). Thus, the Norsemen  and Banderas engage in a Beowulf style journey into battle against  insurmountable odds. I found myself becoming deeply involved with this  group as they experienced their perils.  I did read "Eaters of the  Dead" and this movie follows it pretty closely.  Weakness will be  found in the the development of the characters and the Norsemen traditions  and way of life... which the book describes in more detail.  This single  issue probably is the weak portion of the film... for the book having  included these missing aspects... allows you to have a deeper understanding  as to why Banderas and the Norsemen act as they do.  However, even without  those things I mentioned... this is still a good action/adventure movie.  One that I would call a sleeper... for I had heard that it was not that  good.  Obviously, you will need to make the decision for yourself... but,  this movie is definitely worthly of a decision.  Beware of gore and  violence... because this movie does have them... although, I was amazed  that it did not reflect the portrayl of women correctly from the book...  remember, this was Norse culture... women were possessions for all  practical purposes.  Other note worthly aspects... included the positive  portrayl of Arabs... as being very well educated and mannered ... which was  especially true during this time period.  Finally, this is no  "Braveheart"... but, alas, it was never meant to be.