In the year 1993 Martin Scorsese surprised everyone by reining his directorship to Edith Wharton's most enduringly popular novel set in the Golden Age(1870s) of New York society. He is the most renowned and controversial director of his time specialising in theme of violent turmoil(guilt, desire,passion) which is commonly found in people.

Newland Archer (Daniel Day-Lewis), an upstanding gentleman and partner in a rewarding law firm, is engaged to the perfect society woman, the pretty and polished May Welland (Winona Ryder). Newland's world changes when he meets Countess Ellen Olenska (Michelle Pfeiffer), May's beautiful,intelligent and 'different' cousin who has resided in Europe and going thru a divorce. Her liberal sensibility starts falling for Newland's fervent spirit.

Not a word of rigid social code is written down anywhere which governs how these people should talk, walk, meet, part, dine, work, love, and marry. But these people have been studying it since they were born. Here it is where Newland and Olenska dare to differ and hence begins a submissive tiff between the individual and the community. Newland has to make a painful choice between a passionate life with Olenska and a safe life with May--the life he was born and raised to lead.

We're guided on this voyage by narrator (Joanne Woodward), who understands all that is happening and makes it captivating by supplying at times the private thoughts of some of the characters.

Without a literal bloodshed the film offers meticulously designed costumes and settings that evoke a culture as classy in its surface as it is conflicting in its customs. Ryder and Pfeiffer glow in their respective acts, but it is Daniel's restrained performance that is a real turn-on, particularly his scenes with both the leading ladies and the last scence are to watch out for.

Over a decade old but the film leaves you thinking with a lump in the throat. Perhaps violence attains a new meaning here that Scorcese calls his "most violent film".