That's how long it took to get this Harryhausen classic on DVD, and that's how long I'd wager that the DVD production house took in "re-mastering it with an all-new digital transfer."  Said transfer only serves to de-mystify the once-breathtaking visual effects sequences by forcing us to watch the stop-action creatures of old, delivered in frighteningly embarrassing crispness(only bringing their rubbery construction to the fore), being composited on to the live action segments that look like they are being viewed at a distance of 2 feet on a circa 1985 rear-projection television.
The performances, once treasured, now seem terribly inept even by the immortal Laurence Olivier (who I suppose has an excuse given that he was terribly ill at the time of filming) and the usually wonderful Maggie Smith.  Never being a fan of Hamlin, I will not belabour to address the shortcomings of his performance and instead relegate him to the patheon of strong-silent-type of action heroes, where he belongs.  The lovely Judi Bowker, strangely absent from cinema after 1988, plays the innocent, distressed princess as well as can be expected (in stark contrast to said innocence was the bath scene which was something of a shock for one used to seeing it on network television.)  The only truly memorable performance was given by Burgess Meredith, who it seems can deliver his "cantankerous old man" character in any time period.
Perhaps my greatest exception with the DVD was the lack of interesting special features.  A brief interview with Ray Harryhausen about the film most definitely does not constitute a special feature in my estimation.  I would have loved to have seen some deleted scenes (if there was enough archive footage for deleted scenes for Casablanca, I know there was for Clash of the Titans), an extensive featurette about the evolution of the film, and most especially a cast commentary.  The last would have been difficult I'm sure, but it still would have been nice.  
Despite all of this, there is some redeeming value in that it is an marginally entertaining and occasionally laughable outing into Greek mythology.  If you're looking to get all of Harryhausen's work in your archive, buy the DVD.  If you're looking to re-connect visually to your original experience of the movie, you'd better pass this up.  Maybe a 25th anniversary edition with fix these problems, but I wouldn't hold my breath.
-N