"Based On A True Story" may be the most abused sentence in Hollywood history.  "The Girl Next Door" claims variously to be "based on a true story", "inspired by actual events", etc.  It is, however, an adaptation of a novel and while both may well have been "inspired" by a 1965 Indiana child abuse case, the only thing I could find in common between the film and the actual case was that significant portions of both took place in a basement.

Seen as a horror film, "The Girl Next Door" certainly delivers.  It is indeed horrifying--shockingly so.  The acting and direction are competent, and what appears to be a miniscule budget is extremely well-used.  So if you like your frights with some "sick" overtones, this might be for you.

Viewed as a recounting of "actual events", however, this film fails miserably.  For reasons of their own, both novelist and screenwriters included essentially nothing from the case which inspired the story.  The time period is shifted to the 1950s, the location and basic situation are changed, and every one of the events is fictionalized.  Perhaps most disturbingly, while drawing inspiration from a real-life child abuse case, the writers found it necessary to invent utterly grotesque torments to which the victim at the center of the movie is subjected and from which the camera just barely turns away.  At that point, the film becomes an exercise in voyeurism, basically an exploitation film which, due to the age of the fictional victim and most of the other characters, has a decidedly unsavory feeling to it.  I felt dirty after watching this movie.  Not informed about a tragic and ugly historical event or about the horrors of child abuse, just used psychologically much as the film's victim was abused physically.

If you have seen the infinitely superior "An American Crime" and considered this film as a possible alternate view of the real-life case, forget it.  And if you came upon this film first, do yourself a favor and see "An American Crime" instead.