I hurt my knee towards the end of July after a very quick increase in the frequency, duration, and intensity of my workouts on the elliptical trainer. I had been pretty lazy the past year and was to the point I was only using it on weekends, and then went quite suddenly to 6 days a week.  At that point, the grinding noise I had previously ignored turned into a mix of dull pain around the knee cap, and very, very sharp pain under the left knee cap. I had dislocated this knee cap at the age of 14. My other knee also became tight.

I purchased this DVD with the idea that if my knee did not get better, or got worse, I would go for PT. For the first month I made great progress using this DVD and reduced time on the elliptical trainer. But then while on a Staycation my knee pain increased significantly. Different shoes, more active, etc. So, I went to the doctor. I have two subluxated patellas, the left one being significantly off the track. On top of that I have hip dysplasia  on the right (shallow hip socket), and a SIJ rotation - these were diagnosed initially in 1997.  So, I'm a fairly complex case!

But throughout the 2 weeks for diagnostics, and additional 2 weeks to finally get into PT (and now I'm waiting another 3 weeks to get to the start of the regular weekly sessions) - I have continued to use this DVD. I truly think without it, I would not be walking.

I have only had my first PT session, but what I've done so far is simply building on this DVD.  Concentrating on the gluteus medius, I've added resistance and reps for the clam shell, and holding time and reps for the side leg raises. I've increased the balancing exercises to add additional reps (which has also helped strengthen weak ankles, and a weak arch on my left foot).  And I can't do regular bridges, so now I'm learning to do the single leg bridge on a chair.  I've only had one week of PT, and I've already seen big results, but I've continued to use the exercises and stretches from this DVD as the basis for my work - only changing the exercises to meet my personal needs.

I would highly recommend this DVD to anyone with knee injuries. And also, the stretching routine on the DVD is awesome.

UPDATE December 2009:
I am still in PT for my knee. Progress is being made but is slow, which is not unusual for the knee.  The only portion I still use from the DVD is the stretching sequence and I use it almost daily.  Even though I no longer use the DVD, the exercises I do continue to be based on the same ideas as this DVD, but either the rep count, the hold time, or intensity has been changed.  Besides the items mentioned above, the latest change has been to add weight to the wall slide exercises and maintain a 6-second hold time.  I have to be careful with exercises that target the quads directly as it causes the knee to lock down, but this one seems to be working.

As another reviewer mentioned, I also added ankle weights to the side leg raises, although I had to place them just above the knees. It was amazing how important the gluteus medius exercises were for my recovery. In my modified versions it takes me about 30-35 minutes to do all of my lower body strength exercises, of which 15 minutes is for the gluteus medius!! It's amazing how things all fit together.

As one of the other reviewers mentioned, this is a good DVD for beginners and even light intermediate.  But over time you will likely need to up the workout a little. Either way, I think this is a very good DVD.

I never did use the 7 minute workout as I felt it was too rushed.