Here's my review:
Video
Excellent, excellent quality. I have seen both the VCD and DVD versions fo this anime, and I must say even though the quality for the VCD is great, the quality on the DVD is much better. (Of course. ;) I have nothing against VCD's, I love them too.) Both are fine, but if you want to experience the maximum quality, get this DVD version. It's worth it. Also, since Love Hina was digitally drawn, it really shows off its vibrant colours on the DVD. I give it 5/5 for video quality.
Audio
The audio is great. The dub is not as bad as people say, though there are lots of room for improvements. The good thing is that they also included the Japanese soundtrack with or without subtitles on this DVD, so won't have to worry about bad dubbing. I give it 5/5 for audio quality.
Packaging
Even though its English logo is too 70's, the logo remained unchanged on the actual opening of the video. I am actually starting to like the English logo too. Also, the collector's box and DVD box are also very carefully designed. The colours are vibrant and the characters don't look "cut-n-pasted". I also recommend getting the DVD with the collector's box if you have the chance since it's well worth the money. I give it 5/5 for packaging.
Menu
The menu is easy to navigate, and each of the four episodes are divided up into four parts for easy tracking or searching. I also give it 5/5 for menu design.
Subtitles
Bandai's subtitles aren't bad, they could be a little bit hard to read at first, but they are not hard to read once you get used to it. (I got used to it in FIVE minutes.) Also, all the endings on people's names like sempai and san were replaced with Mr. and Ms.. It's not that bad. I give it 4/5 for subtitles.
Extra's
There are too much extra on this DVD, though there are trailers, Keitaro's sketchbook, and character information in the "Extra" section. It's not that bad. I give it 4/5 for extra's.
Content
The story is based on a guy who is trying to get accepted into Tokyo University. He travels to his grandmother's Inn, and finds himself in an all-girl dormity. I will stop here now as it will spoil the story for you. ;) It's really funny, and it's wildly popular. Get it now! I give it 6/5 (yes one extra point) for its content.
Overall
Overall, I give this product 5/5. Buy it now, it's well worht the money. :)
This is my review and I hope you enjoy it! :)