Okay, the only thing bad about this movie is its title.  Until I saw an interview with Ron Howard, who made this film, I had no desire to rent it.  I'm not even a Russell Crowe fan!  Now, I've bought it, after renting it.

It's not the showy, sometimes more than you want to know, vehicle of Will Smith's "Ali", or even Stalone's "Rocky" 1 through 5000, nor the charming, but somehow dull Erroll Flynn movie "Gentleman Jim".

This movie has heart, great heart.  The only movies I can come close to relating it to are "Raging Bull", with DeNiro, or perhaps Paul Newman's portrayal of Rocky Graziano in "Somebody Up There Likes Me".  The liner notes give away most of the movie, but I suggest you just watch it and judge for yourself.

Crowe's portrayal goes beyond just the hard-edge of boxing and the depression era, and comes out with something filled with emotion, pathos, and some pretty damned good pugilism.  It's hard and sweet at the same time, and it portrays a great moment in boxing history.  Whereas "Rocky" was a great movie about an underdog, it was also about a somewhat, dare I say, slow-witted hard-case who didn't really have much more than an escape from the slums and one way to do it.  Jim Braddock had a family, and was dedicated to that family, and his aim was toward that family surviving as a unit.  He did whatever he could to take care of them.  Rocky was just a tough street bum...Braddock was a man of pride who did whatever he had to do to keep that family unit intact.  There is a sweetness about him, and a warrior's heart within him.  He went up against some pretty tough competition, and won out, even at an older age when no one else thought he had a shot...a little bit like the older George Forman, but without the income.  I want to add a note about Will Smith's portrayal as Ali...it was a good movie, and Smith was good in it, but Ali, let's face it, was always Ali, and he was probably the best.  Crowe's portrayal of Jim Braddock goes beyond it.  It's man against the world, and not even sure he can do it...but, hey, a few hundred bucks put a lotta food on the table during the depression times.

Too bad they looked to the newspapers for the title...I think this movie could've done so much more if people knew what it was about.

Donn Kean