i am so happy this wonderful film is finally on dvd!

virginia kellogg wrote a great script, which i read somewhere was shown to joan crawford and bette davis before it was turned into the flawless noir-style drama we have for our enjoyment.  this script had to have been one of the many impsirations for bob fosse's 'cell block tango' in his musical chicago.  it couldn't be any other way--for lines and ideas that are present in this 1950 release are also present in the lyrics of that number.  and if fosse didn't do it alone, kander and ebb were good co-accomplices!

thinking about the possibility of davis and crawford in this film, maybe they would have been playing the warden benton or matorn evelyn harper.  there is no way either of them would have been considered for the lead, marie allen.  allen is played to total perfection by eleanor parker.  to see her go from frightened, innocent inmate to hardened, bitter parolee is a harrowing process. she is ably supported in so many of her scenes from some of the finest character actors in hollywood at the time such as olive deering as a tragic inmate, jane darwell as a more motherly matron and queenie smith as a spineless twit of a mother.

and now to the rest of the cast, headed by the amzonian hope emerson as cold-blooded matron harper, who makes mama morton look like a teddy bear, agnes moorhead as the beleagured yet authoritative warden, jan sterling as a prostitute pulling dead time, betty garde as shoplifters queen kitty stark and lee patrick as underworld queen elvira powell.  each of these women is control of their artistry and each makes an indelible impression in this gallery of portraits of females under strains that we can only imagine.

john cromwell is a name you don't hear often.  but he was a confident, assured director that could handle a cast of such size and strength and keep the balance between gut wrenching drama and comedy even and tightly tuned.  where are more of his films?  and max steiner, the king of schmaltz (and i love his type of schmaltz), dared himself to come out with a score that was so sparse and haunting but in the last few minutes of the film, just lets go with a shrieking, screaming wail of saxophone, trumpet and strings that heralds marie's rebirth as a criminal who is out for what she can get out of life.  this underscoring prefigures the acheivements of alex north and leonard bernstein's work on 'streetcar named desire' and 'on the waterfront'.

don't just watch this film on tv--buy it! own it and don't ever let your copy out of your sight.  even your own mother wouldn't give it back to you.