I almost didn't buy this DVD because of the negatives that were pointed out in other reviews. SO GLAD I BOUGHT IT!!!!! This ones a REAL WINNER in my opinion and I disagree with some of the negatives in other reviews. This DVD allows me to show my just turned 2 year old these wonderful music clips of her favorite Disney Princesses without having to keep rewinding my VHS tapes that I have collected for so many years. If you're looking for an AWESOME attention holder for your child, this worked for mine. I really enjoy it too. You can watch the song videos from beginning to end; select certain ones that you want to view; see children dance to three of the songs during which it switches back to the videos; sing karaoke; and more. Some negatives in other reviews I found to be positives: 1) The narrator is so nice sounding. Pleasing voice with nice introductions and endings to each song. She sounds like a nice Disney Grandmother storyteller. 2) The whole display is magical pure Disney in my opinion- even just the menu has colors that are nice for little girls with plenty of pinks and purples which are typically a favorite. 3) The children dancing to the three different songs which switch back and forth to the videos are VERY Cute! The kids do look like kids off the street and I think that is the whole point. Normal kids can identify with them. My little one dances up a storm and loves this part of the DVD. I admit, I find it cute, too.  **The only negative I do have is my little one and me, too, are not fond of the Hercules videos. Could do without those. "Like Other Girls" from Mulan II is pretty funny and whacky. We like that one too. To summarize my negatives, we could do without 2 of the videos. Everything else about this DVD is very appealing. If I need to do something and have confidence that my little one is going to be glued to something and stay out of trouble, this DVD accomplishes that. At the same time, I don't think I'll get tired of hearing the songs. They're all great (minus the 2 I mentioned). This one gets a BIG THUMBS UP in my opinion!