Les vacances de M. Hulot ( aka M. Hulot's Holiday) follows the generally harmless misadventures of a lovable, gauche Frenchman, Monsieur Hulot (played by Tati himself), as he joins the 'newly-emerging holiday-taking classes' for an August vacation at a modest seaside resort in Breton. The film is a series of comic misadventures with hardly a word of dialogue that works terrifically.

 The film affectionately lampoons several hidebound elements of French political and economic classes, from chubby capitalists and self-important Marxist intellectuals to petty proprietors and drab dilettantes, most of whom find it nearly impossible to free themselves, even temporarily, from their rigid social roles in order to relax and enjoy life. The film also gently mocks the confidence of postwar western society in the primacy of work over leisure and the value of complex technology over simple pleasures, themes that would resurface in his later films.

The thing that most impresses about Les Vacances as was also the case in Jour le Fete is the innocence of the entire thing. The rememberance of a time past that will never be again. There is no real plot in this film. Tourists go on vacation and things simply happen to them. Hulot is not so much accident prone as accidents continually seem to happen around him. Tati wears the character of Hulot well. It can be said that Tati was a silent comedian working in the world of sound films and this description is apt. The film is a series of wonderfully executed sight gags and slapstick comedy that never grows old.

Tati's film grammar is such that he leaves his camera in one place locked down and fills the entire frame with action. There are no real closeups the viewer gets the feeling that he is an observer of all the wonder that is going on around him. Hulot is just a frame on which to hang the action. Perhaps we need more comedies of this type. Films that we can laugh at for the sake of laughing. Maybe then we could have a better simpler world.

I screened the BFI edition of the film. The picture was quite good and what subtitles there were worked fine. In this kind of film subtitles are not really necessary toenjoy the experience. Voices appear in Tati movies not to advance the storyline but more to fill the soundtrack the way any other sound effect would. The only extra was an excellent interview with director Richard Lester on Tati's influence on him and the world of comedy in general. Lester compares Tati to both Chaplin and Keaton and the comparison works quite well.

This is a film that needs to be seen by any real student of filmed comedy. Buy it.