The Silver Streak was among about ten movies that came out during a time I was able to go in a gigantic old theater called the Metropolitan in my hometown (for a dollar) to watch it before climbing 5 miles and facing taking care of my grandmom and the responsibilities of real life. A theater where if I was the only watcher they still wondrously, happily "ran the movie" and for another dollar sold me some yummy popcorn. And a coke. Why does that matter here? Perhaps just to say it was the summer movie, they ran one every summer for matin&eacute;es and it was the perfect choice (also ran An Unmarried Woman another summer). Cinematic beauties they'd choose.... Well Morgantown was a marvelous place to grow up for an explorer......and watching this movie put a desire in me to try traveling to corners unknown.

The movie was scored by Henry Mancini, it would never be The Silver Streak without this music. This score still gives me chills. I love it. If you You Tube you can call up filmpieces and see why or simply get/rent/view the movie and enjoy. I've actually tried in vain to get the score on a CD ......it was wonderful. Yes, I've gone across the country in a train, in a bus, car, plane. Nothing quite like trains for me, this music evokes my experiences of that, there is no doubt. Mancini a love of mine; it's true.

All this said the movie has the romance.
Gene Wilder meeting Jill Clayburgh, both lonely, both leaving behind a past. Oh that part of movie is between just those two and somehow our inner voyeur. This is what makes a good romance, can we feel their connection maybe just a bit as our own. It's the start of something forever baby. Here with a bit of the "just for now" at the bar chance.
Why that appeals goes to the heart of us all.
Lovely. Possibly not ridden with impossibility. It is meaningful to those of us losing hopes. Back in my youth it was just such a contrast watching this lovely romance to the days I lived where your name and face were unneeded. And there was only physicality and "next."

Ah, but when I watch it now, the relating carries the 70's "sound," it's something to revisit that time older in how one navigated shall we say "an evening." A bit embarrassing watching with teens that left the room. ( Not to say I needed company) Almost too embarrassing except I want that reminder of times lost to time...want them (our couple) to hook up sadly leaving something of my values there in the tunnels passed through as the scenes pass through this glorious country. Those scenes are just filmed beautifully giving me yet another reason I loved this movie. Then there is the crimes and chase, the fighting for the woman, the mystery of the unknown in the story, the section of the set up of the problem brings to the couple the challenges to their idealizations of one another, the tests to see if this is going to be real. Boy are they tested.

Then the comedic relief, the fun, the absurdity of love, of life situations once coupled with someone that helps you carry the journey of life, you can laugh outloud now....the section of the journey where one has to believe that Richard Pryor was so much fun to work with in the making of this movie. Two devilishly good comics do what they do best. Scenes here of them partnering to get back on the train ( thrown off again and again) and to unravel the crime for themselves failing to get any help anywhere and finally save themselves. These are just classic pieces, one would argue representative of classic psychological constructs. True enough. It touches on our unspoken issues of race too, of crime, of the potentials to do right things, it is so darn funny to see shoe polish on Wilder and him getting down to slip by security looking for him as a brother.

Pryor is playing this with such utter sincerity and as such a kind and good being. What a genius. The friend we wish we had character. A kind of street urchin wise-acre savior for Wilder. I don't know, every time I watch it I am enamored again.

Then the conclusion. It is actually when something bigger than self gets put into play. Saving the world stuff. Here I found this like something from a dream. It's a phenomenal visual experience. Oddly as I don't care for violence, crime, murders thrown into story lines I know this does have all of the above along with train crashing conclusion.....yet I liked the movie in my thirty or more viewings in that summer as I gained the strength to go home after work and get ready to face the next days tasks. Always left laughing and feeling that kismet one carries after watching a romantic comedy suggest to you that you might find a romance one day too.
Of possibility.