I enjoyed the season, and I'd hoped that they would develop a strong ending to the virus arc.  They gave us a short glimpse into the future, like they had in season 1, and I'd hoped they would have developed the virus arc they way they developed the bomb arc in Season 1.

This season should have fit on two disks, maybe three if you include the deleted scenes and commentary.  Each disk had no more than three episodes, and they could have put the entire season on two disks.  They did include commentaries on the episodes as well as deleted scenes.  But the real reason I gave this two stars was the fact they picked up all the unaired scenes off the cutting room floor to fill up a fourth disk.  In addition to that, while they showed how they originally planned to finish out the second half of the season, Tim Kring's smug comment (and his not looking at the camera) about the show moving in a different direction, and now the only place to find this lost footage was to buy the DVD really disturbed me.

Maybe they realized they'd written themselves into a corner, and decided to scrap the second half of the season because it would be too hard for them to finish the season properly.

I had hoped that Season three would have fleshed out the virus storyline in more detail.  However, they smugly explained the fact all they needed to change was the scene where Peter stopped the vial from shattering, and so ended the virus arc.  To make matters worse, they included all the scenes they'd shot on the DVD (to get that fourth disk).  It also showed me how extravagant the producers of Heroes are.  Basically, the cost to shoot several scenes from two episodes that were scrapped.  It would have been better to leave it all out, instead of giving us a glimpse of what would have been a great story after a long hiatus.

Sure, we can blame the writer's strike, but Desperate Housewives managed to finish up a complete season.  So I don't understand why the writers associated with Heroes wouldn't finish up the season.  It's bad enough that they put all the networks on hold for half a year.  In any other business, if workers leave the project half done would be deserve getting fired.  Instead, they get raises then go on vacation for eight months.