This movie is fantastic!!!! Based on a real place in Upstate New York, "Camp" tells the story of one summer in the lives of some VERY gifted teens. What these kids can do is remarkable.
The 2 main characters in the movie are Vlad and Ellen. Vlad is the "new kid on the block", being new to the camp. Ellen is a seasoned camper, who has many friends among the other campers. Their interactions are at times hysterical.
  More important than endless plot summary, is the actors themselves. As "Vlad", Daniel Letterle, is great. At the start of the movie, "Vlad's" sexual orientation is unknown, causing friends "Ellen" and "Michael" to have a friendly "bet" about who "Vlad" will end up with. Eventually, this gets resolved and a couple is formed.
  "Ellen" is played by Johanna Chilcoat. WOW!!!! What a voice!!! All of her tender acting, and the self-doubt of her character is immediately vanished as soon as she belts out "And I am Telling You" from "Dreamgirls". It's a short scene, but has a huge impact.
  Robin De Jesus plays "Michael", the VERY out gay boy dealing with recent trauma. Essentially a theater actor, Robin is fantastic as "Michael". He shows the mental affects of being a gay teen. The flashback scene is traumatic, just to watch.
  There are 2 other actresses that require mention. Anna Kendrick, is a 2010 Oscar nominee for Best Supporting Actress. She is awesome as " Fritzie", a timid-acting nerdy girl with big theater aspirations. Those of you who have seen "All About Eve", will find "Fritzie" familiar. The difference is Bette Davis was an adult, Anna is a teenager. She is going to be huge, in part because she is in the George Clooney movie "Up in the Air". It's great that she is now being recognized.
  Now its time for Tiffany Taylor. As, Jenna, she is the shinning star, at least vocally, of "Camp". She is at camp with her jaw wired because her overbearing father has some screwy definition of "fat". She mumbles through 99% of the movie. At the end, however, she sings "Here's Where I Stand," a Gospel triumph, to her father, as well as to everyone else. WOW! WOW! WOW!!! This is worth seeing, if nothing else.
  The adults in this film are all secondary, except for Don Dixon, as Bert Hanley, a once-great musical composer, now a boozing loser. His interactions with the campers, and his scene with theater-legend Stephen Sondheim are perfectly acted.
This movie is one that most will wanna watch over and over. The acting is good, but it's the performances that make this movie so enjoyable.