I bought the two-disc Blu-ray release of this movie and I was a little disappointed with the picture quality. I am watching it on a 32" LCD TV, and maybe I don't have my adjustments right but I think it could be better. The blu-ray comes with several extras; I haven't perused through them all yet, but there are several trailers. The audio options are for both English and Japanese, in both 2.0 and 5.1 digital sound. Not anything spectacular, but definitely not a bare-bones release either. The second disc, which contains a "short film" collection comes with several shorts, so no shortcomings there, but the picture quality is worse here. I can't say to stay away from it, but be careful.

As for the movie itself, here goes: I never really was a big fan of the excessive gore and violence on film; I always found it distasteful and ridiculous. That being said, I loved this movie. The movie doesn't have much of a plot or character development, but the point of the film seemed that it was trying harder to be disgusting and bizarre than to be a great film. And it delivers rather well, in my opinion. The music, while nothing special, was at times quite eerie, and lent to the gruesome feeling of the movie.

I've seen several complaints from uppity film snobs who believe that every movie in existence should be of nothing less than pristine quality to be enjoyed, and if otherwise, they have no business being made at all. Pfft. Then stay away from stuff like this. If it's a slap to your face when something like this comes on the market, you need to grow up. These movies aren't meant to win academy awards; they are meant to be bloody and gory and freakish, which they do quite well. Broaden your horizons; it'll be a lot easier to be entertained.

I hope this review helps everybody; I was moderately happy with both the disc and the movie itself, and if you are capable of viewing films on levels other than "pure greatness or nothing," you might just be happy with this one. Now, off to The Machine Girl...