Seeing this film on DVD forty-six years after it was first released, I was left decidedly ambivalent as to its quality, but with rather more disappointment than delight.

Though I'd heard that as drama it was tepid fare, the pacing seemed even more lackadaisical than I'd anticipated. Such dramatic tension as exists can be reduced to the question "Will Michaelangelo ever finish painting the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel?"  And since there can be few viewers over the age of, say, twelve who are in doubt as to the answer, the suspense is minimal. As for dramatic confrontation, we can enjoy the battle of wills between the artist and the pope, Julius II, who commissioned the frescoes, but when such pedestrian dialogue as we find here is uttered by two familiar stars of the 50s and 60s, Charlton Heston and Rex Harrison, the verbal jousting seldom rises above the banter associated with most Hollywood costume dramas of that era. And though not exactly boring, this movie, with its 138 minute running time, doesn't exactly fly by. We can be grateful that the film comes with an intermission, since otherwise some of us would create (at least) one, using our remotes. So much for the admittedly minor agony of watching a long, often ponderous movie.

On the other hand, the film does have some wonderful treats, mostly for the eye. Costumes and set design are sumptuous. The location scenes in Italy do well in evoking the early 16th Century in Italy. And best of all, there is a mini-documentary at the very beginning of the movie that surveys  Michaelangelo's various works of sculpture in all their virtuosic glory. Viewers who stop the DVD when this is over, before the actual film has begun, should certainly be forgiven. Arguably, they have seen the best of what The Agony and the Ecstasy has to offer.

If they do watch until the end, as I did, they might well enjoy the portrayal of one or both of the two main characters. My preference is for Harrison's wily and willful Julius over Heston's stubborn and visionary Michaelangelo. The image of the creative genius as presented in this movie, passionate, obsessive and a bit wild-eyed, is sort of standard fare for biographical films of this kind; not many variations on that theme here. More unusual is the depiction of a pope who was (historically as well as  cinematically) both a military as well as a religious leader. It's instructive to be reminded that the  the Papal States were a temporal, no less than a spiritual, power during the Renaissance, and that the titular head of Christendom would sometimes ride into battle, clad in armor, against the Christian kings who, in theory at least, bowed to his religious authority. Harrison, as he did portraying Julius Caesar in the 1963 Cleopatra, is adept at suggesting a robust warrior, but one no less capable in an intellectual or artistic environment.  Still, as he did with Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton in the earlier film, Rex Harrison tends to overshadow his co-star in The Agony and the Ecstasy, so that when Heston's artist is deprived of his papal sparring partner, the film loses what little claim to ecstasy it may be said to possess, aside from the artwork, of course.