Have you ever wondered what would happen if the weather just suddenly went out of control? The Day After Tomorrow is a depiction of what might happen if the weather were to spin out of control. Jack Hall (Dennis Quaid), a famous climatologist, suggests a sudden climate change due to the effects of global warming. His many warnings to the President are constantly put aside, but they soon realize the mistake they made.

 If you've watched other films with Dennis Quaid, you'd expect his role to be quite similar in this movie, which would be the hero of the action packed film. Quaid stars as the main character in this film and most of the film is focused on him and his family. He stars as a climatologist, but the movie rarely ever focuses on it. Instead it's more about how Jack Hall is willing to risk his life to get his son out of the frozen city of New York. This shows a role more like that of a father rather than that of a climatologist.

 Roland Emmerich directs The Day After Tomorrow in a way similar to other movies he directed before such as Godzilla (1998) and Independence Day (1996). He concentrates on big global issues, like the testing of nuclear bombs, first contact with aliens and in this movie, the issue of global warming. Just like the previous movies he directs, The Day After Tomorrow has impressive eye-catching special effects which can grab your attention when you least expect it. The movie provides realistic special effects that immerse the audience in a believable setting. Probably the only disappointing part of the CGI animations would be the vicious wolves, which are so ruthless, it makes that particular scene rather far-fetched. Besides that, the movie's special effects are undoubtedly the most impressive aspect of the film.

 The film, however, speaks against the U.S. government quite a lot. The United States President (Perry King) can't seem to make a single decision about what to do with all the warnings he is receiving. Instead, he asks the vice president (Kenneth Welsh), who looks strikingly similar to Dick Cheney, to deal with it. He responds by continuously telling the president to ignore it all. This is, of course, a serious mistake and they soon learn the consequences of their actions. This might cause people to view the U.S. government as something like the bad guys of the film. It also makes one wonder what Emmerich's intentions were with the cast he chose. At present day, George Bush is responding quite similarly to the President in this film by saying that the issue of global warming is not a big deal at all and there are greater matters to be worrying about. Since the president of the movie acts in a suspiciously similar way, it may seem that Emmerich purposely chose specific actors to portray the U.S. government in a rather negative way.

 Through this film, Emmerich shows the destructive power of global warming, also to tell us not to be ignorant about global warming and to show that it is a real threat. In the movie, no one bothered to do anything until they finally saw what the consequences were. Everyone is affected by the storm and no one is spared. There are so many hidden messages, that it seems incredibly obvious that the movie's purpose is to raise awareness among the people. One such quote was said by Jack "Mr. President, if we don't act now it's going to be too late." This quote like many others throughout the movie show that global warming can become a very big problem in the future.

 One thing lacking in The Day After Tomorrow is a complex plot. There is not much development in the story, so when the film ends, you might walk away feeling a bit unsatisfied. There are moments of suspense, that can keep you on your toes, but overall the plot is nothing to be impressed with. Emmerich's other movies have plots that develop much more effectively than The Day After Tomorrow, which means someone might end up seeing this movie for the special effects, rather than the story.

 The Day After Tomorrow focuses very well on the current issue of global warming, making it a very good movie to watch. Along with the incredible special effects, the movie is entertaining, yet believable. With these strong points, the movie can make anyone wonder whether or not it is too late to stop global warming from becoming a reality.