This DVD is really two concerts, despite one of them being dubbed an "extra" so we'll split this review in twain:

==KILBURN '77==

Ah, the infamous Kilburn show. I believe a lot of the inaccuracies and inconsistencies in this show can be attributed to the fact that The Who had been away from the stage for a whole year. Still, anyone who knows The Who will tell you that a "perfect" Who show will often include fits of Townshend rage, a flubbed line or two by Roger, and pervasive lunacy care of Keith Moon. If it weren't for John locking the whole thing down as the immobile musical anchor who knows where we'd be today. DO NOT touch Pete's amp. You'll probably lose an eye.

Being off the road for so long The Who are in raw form. It takes a song or two for them to find their stride. Oddly enough, Keith Moon is arguably more on the ball during this show than the rest of the band. It goes to show that he didn't just bash away with no rhyme or reason. He actually was paying close attention to what was happening on stage. Also, he is in considerably better form musically during this show than he was later on at Shepperton. The way he hammers away during "Substitute" and "My Wife" is classic Keith Moon. His monologue before "Behind Blue Eyes" is a bit tough to take considering how little time he actually had left. Just remember to keep Keith happy and let him do his Uncle Ernie bit.

It's the hard-rockers that really stand out during the Kilburn show, those songs that lend themselves to being jammed on with wild abandon. "My Wife" rocks hard and "Summertime Blues" sounds just as good as it ever did during the "Live at Leeds" days. The same goes "Shakin' All Over" and "My Generation" the latter in particular featuring John going absolutely ballistic on his bass solo as well as what appears to be a Roger-inspired romp through a verse of "Join Together." Pete is all over the stage the whole night and shreds quite nicely on just about every song. He does lose his enthusiasm a bit after "I'm Free" but seems to regain it quickly. Of special note is the oft-mentioned "Who Are You" which is extremely raw and definitely a different animal that what would show up on vinyl a few months later. Also, it's my opinion that the performance of "Won't Get Fooled Again" at the Kilburn concert beats the hell out of the Shepperton gig by several degrees.

Kilburn is one of those concerts that I watched through one eye the first time through. I knew what to expect; I knew there were a lot of issues, errors, and tension, but after several viewings I've found how to appreciate it. In terms of The Who as the original four-piece band this is definitely their last great concert. It's really The Who at their roughest which is what a lot of fans crave. The banter with the crowd is fantastic, the band despite the musical snafus seem to be getting on well and having a good time of it and there are some classic one-liners from Keith, my favorite being his revelation to the audience of why they're being recorded as well: "Somebody says something libelous and we sue 'em!"

==LONDON COLISEUM '69==

For me personally this was the real attraction of the Kilburn DVD. I love this era of The Who so having any sort of visual record is something I'm going to jump on. The concert set list is virtually identical to the legendary "Live at Leeds" show minus "Substitute" and "Magic Bus." The audio quality dips every once in a while especially with respect to Pete's guitar which can sometimes sound like it's being played from a building or two away.

The video is something else entirely. It retains some artifacts and a lot of the shots, especially the wider angles on the whole band, tend to be grainy and poorly lit.  A lot of the time the video is locked in on one angle for minutes at a time. This is explained up-front and on-screen just before the show. The Coliseum was lit for the stage show, not the film crew, so they pretty much had to make do with what was available. Despite that fact, the concert is entirely watchable. I like to think of this show as almost like a professionally released bootleg recording. Keep the lights off and get a good set of headphones. After a drink or two you'll think you're THERE.

The entire performance is high-octane Who. This is due in no small part to getting to see Keith Moon in all his early splendor. He is a wild man. The camera is on him for a good chunk of "Shakin' All Over" so get your fill. You get to see him with a better picture on the "Isle of Wight" DVD, but only if you want to deal with a truncated version of "Tommy." Some of the banter exchanged with Pete during the introduction to "A Quick One" is positively Python-esque. Speaking of Pete, he's remarkably less talkative between songs (aside from the aforementioned banter with Keith) and he addresses this near the end of the show where he mentions feeling uncomfortable and awkward performing in the home of the English National Opera. He does make some amusing asides about if The Who took over 7 days a week how performances would be considerably less high-brow, but the seats would be more comfortable.

I find this whole performance fascinating and it would surely make a fine addition to any Who collection. However, given the audio hiccups and the overall picture quality I can see why it was included as part of a larger whole. In today's video market where people are used to bleeding-edge 1080p high definition 3D whatever-the-hell I'm sure a lot of uneducated consumers would get up in arms about the lower quality picture of the Coliseum show. For those of us that know better we can simply enjoy what we have and thank our creator-being of choice that there's anything to see at all.