A theme that has fascinated man throughout history is the dwindling of a civilization to the point that its cultural heritage is possessed by only a handful of people. This scenario--the isolated, recalcitrant, and often despised holdout--has recurred in art and literature. It brings to mind the biblical Noah, Orwell's Winston Smith, and the various depictions of survivors of a nuclear holocaust.

One excellent treatment of this topic is the 1966 film, Fahrenheit 451, based on Ray Bradbury's dystopian novel. The movie is set in a futuristic England. It succeeds, under the masterful direction of François Truffaut, in presenting a believable depiction of a dumbed-down, medicated, equalized, and anti-intellectual society--one frighteningly reminiscent of Western civilization in the year 2009.

The plot is straightforward: Montag (Oskar Werner) seems to be an average, well-adjusted man in his thirties. He works as a fireman. His wife (Julie Christie) sits at home all day, taking mood-adjustment pills and rotting her mind in front of a wide-screen TV. The TV is a non-stop propaganda broadcast, of the soft touchy-feely variety, much of it emanating from a woman leader referred to as "our cousin." The propaganda stresses the themes of tolerance and equality.

(Incidentally, Bradbury recently stated that one of his main goals in writing the story was to warn of the pernicious effects of television on the intellect. He also denied the widespread myth that the book was some sort of social comment on the activities of Senator Joseph McCarthy.)

Montag's job as a fireman is an unusual one. The fire department, instead of extinguishing fires, actually ignites them. And it has one target for its flame: books, the possession of which is illegal. The image of a fire truck, sirens blaring, racing to someone's house in order to burn their books, is truly haunting.

On the monorail he takes to work every day, Montag meets Clarisse (also played by Julie Christie), a young woman who is an outlaw, a reader of books. She plants the seed that causes him to question the wisdom of destroying literature. Eventually, he succumbs to the temptation and begins to read.

One day, Clarisse seeks his aid, distraught after having been fired from her job as an elementary school teacher--for refusing to tow the line and dumb down the children. Later, she is pursued by the police, and flees to an encampment far from the city, a place where other dissidents have congregated.

Montag is betrayed to the authorities by his wife, and then tricked by the captain of the fire station to come out on one last call--to his own house. He is compelled to throw his treasured books on the fire, but conceals one small volume in his pocket. When the captain tries to take it away, Montag burns him to death with his flamethrower.

Our hero is forced to flee for his life. He heads for the encampment. It is there that we witness the story's ultimate genius: The dissidents are known as the "Book People." They do not possess books, because that would subject them to arrest. Instead, each of them has memorized a single work of literature. Each person's name is the name of his book. They stroll around the wooded area, reciting their books, committing them to memory. In a touching scene, a dying elderly man recites his book to a young boy.

It is a delectable irony that Michael Moore absconded with the title of this film for his infamous screed, Fahrenheit 9/11. Moore is the archetype of the dumbed-down pillager of intellect portrayed in Fahrenheit 451, no less hostile to the great works of Western literature than Robespierre was to civil liberties.

"The Book People." What a hard-hitting statement of where our civilization stands--and that was half a century ago. In one of the final scenes of the movie, a Book Person says to Montag:

"We're a minority of undesirables, crying out in the wilderness. But it won't always be so. One day we shall be called on one-by-one to recite what we've learned, and then books will be printed again. And when the next Age of Darkness comes, those who come after us will do again as we have done."

Prophetic words. Our government could conceivably seize our wealth, our possessions, even our books--but it cannot take away the knowledge we have locked away in our minds. The media, the schools, the courts, the universities can make a mockery of our cultural treasures, but we can refuse to play along.

Let us preserve our precious heritage in any way possible; let us find each other and recite our books, our songs, our history.

"One day we shall be called on to recite what we've learned..."