I just got around to seeing it last night.  It never fails.  This is one of those films that I put on the back burner when it first came out because it just did not look right.  Everytime I do that to one of these types of films, it turns out that they were not must-see films.  This one is clearly not good.

First, the "story" opens up without ANY type of set or explanation of who the cahracters are, what their feelings are, what they are are all about and you end up not having any feeling for them because you do not know them.  The director(who needs a different career!) just jumps right into the film expecting you to have feelings for the characters.  The ONLY thing that you know about these characters is that they are Queen Latifah and LL Cool J!  I guess that is all the producers were betting on to make a quick buck.

QL's character was 'supposed' to be a stiff, striagh and narrow woman who is in love with LL.  However, as in all of her films, she is never in character and is still sounding ghetto even though she is supposed to be proper type woman.  You don't know that she was in love with LL (just a scrapbook which she looked more like a sick stalker than in love) and you certainly did not get the feeling that LL was in love with her, let alone even liking her like that.

QL's acting sucked.  I have not seen CHicago, but I cannot understand how her acting could have been nominated for an Academy Award.  Even the horrible Will Smith's acting is better!  She continues to use her oh so cliche 'jokes' that only she seems to find funny.  A decent actress would have pulled it off better, but the directing, screenplay and editing could not save this film.  WHere the actors fail, the production fails even more.  Now I know why there are directors and then their are directors who specialze in comedey.  It clearly takes more than calling yourself a director to pull off a movie, let alone a comedy.

Yes, the timing was oof for everyone.  Characters are talked about and then never seen again.  When you do see one again (mamely LL), you forgot that he was in the film also.  LL's acting was probaly one of his best as he did not seem like LL Cool J, but his poor character, script and screenplay ruined anything that could been.

You know QL is going to die, but you really did not feel bad for her because th eproducers did a poor job of setting up the characters and bringing the audience into their world that when you hear the news, you really don't care if she is going to die or not.  In fact, there was not one charater who you would be concerned about, except maybe the Chef.

The movie was filmed in teh Czech Republic, I assumed because of the low cost.  Like someone who is going to blow ALL of their money because they are going to die thinks "I will go to the world famous and always beautiful Czech Republic!"  Not Egypt, Rome, Paris, the Carribean, Hawaii - the usual spots.

Al in all, this movie was not interesting.  It was boring because of the production.  This is why the most important part of a film is the story.  If you get that wrong, you don't have a movie.  The screenplay was horrible and this movie is not one for the collection, unless you are a female.  I never once got the feeling that they loved each other and I NEVER got the feeling that LL's character even like QL more than a co-worker.  They should have had me on teh job to clean this up.  Even some decent advisors would have worked.  I guess this was one of those "put together quick to make a buck" films.