I came into the theatre with high expectations for this film, and why not? With a cast including tom cruise, and colin farrell and with the legendary stephen spielberg at the helm there's more than ample reason to expect greatness. And whats here is good, but it could have been far better, and it is for this I give it three stars.
 The opening sequence does exactly what it should, it draws you into the movie, introduces some of the main characters, and in this case actually makes you think. The whole precrime aspect, in fact, should make you think. Is it ethical, to arrest a man, who has just found out that his wife has been lieing and cheating on him, simply because according to the pre-cogs (three people damaged by drugs that can see the future) he will murder her? Even though, at the moment he is arrested, he has commited absolutely no crime? In one of the best lines of dialouge, tom cruise's character rolls a ball along a table. When colin farrell's character catches the ball before it falls, cruise asks him, "Why'd you catch that ball?"
"Because it was going to fall."
"Ahh, so just because it didn't happen, doesn't mean it wasn't going to."
I could spend a while exploring this aspect of the movie, but I won't. The script does address this issue, but not quite as in-depth as I may have liked it to.
Cruise and Farrell both give good, solid performances, but as in any movie there are some scenes that feel forced, fake almost, such as the scene where cruise escapes using a peer's jetpack.
The climax of the movie (i will reveal none of it) was beautiful, and you really feel a sense of inevitablilty leading up to it, almost, as if there's no escaping it. If the movie had ended here, as it should have (with some possible talk of the implications of cruise's actions), with that close up of cruise's face (you'll know of which one I speak when you watch it) i would have given the film at least four stars. But it COMPLETELY WRECKS what was good about it when it draws on for another half an hour in order to give the audience an obligatory happy ending. I walked out shaking my head at the fact that a great movie had been turned into a mediocre one, because some exec decided that the "moviegoing population" couldn't deal with an unhappy ending, or it would make them feel too uncomfortable. At any rate, you probably will enjoy this movie, and it's definetly worth watching at least once, but know that it could have been far better.
Recommended