http://www.raptureready.com/rr-margaret-mcdonald.html

i did research as challenged by the previous poster on the subject of the rapture, and i came up with this well backed statement from the link above.  not only does he give enlightened and documented proof that macdonald's "trance" did not develop the theory...as DOCUMENTED proof existed several decades before it at least, but he also backs it up with said details to proove it. such as the 1812 novel (18 years before her "vision") stating the rapture before the tribulation.

anyhow, your idea to only accept the word of God is profound, and wether or not one believes in the pre-rapture is inconsiquential to the christian faith.  what i believe comes from the word of God.  the only reason why the rapture would have any sway on His word is at my chances of being taken away (a escape from death) which would be nice...but it dosnt change His word, nor His truth.

it is unfortunate that the previous poster conformed to Judaism, however that individual's conversion is by NO MEANS in relation to something as trivial as "does the rapture really exist".  for anyone to stray from his or her faith it takes much more then that, either a lack of interest, or a doubt that existed from the beginning, or a over skeptical view on all things that demand faith.  sadly satan allows us all to be overly skeptical and places these tools in our way to cause us to stumble and fall. it is how we manage to pick ourselves up and see through these falsities before they manage to make us challenge our foundation of beliefs so much that satan's cults and off followings begin to look appealing (as does all sin).

just dwell on this fact. Wether or not the rapture is true or not(and i fervently believe it is...as there is DOCUMENTED proof that macdonald's trance did NOT start the rapture "idea" there is documented proof that it was preached centuries earlier then that)....why let it discourage you away from the faith? it dosnt change the christian faith if we are taken sooner or later.  why allow satan to shake the foundation of Christianity over something so inconsiquential to the true meaning?

i feel a great sadness to the previous poster on his conversion away from Christianity, however from what i read the skepticism in the post stems from swayed faith as a result of deception by all the false facts that exist out there as tools to cause us to sway from our true faith, not that of this video (which has boosted my faith greately every time i see it as it causes me to realize just how critical that i show more ATTENTION to my beliefs and PRIORITIZE my actions to what is TRUE, as well as to guide my life to influence my friends and others to come to God.......) If it has this effect on me, then how can anyone judge it for a "cult video"?

it may not be suitable to small youth who are not of age and cannot handle the scary factor. it is a powerful video that shows what will happen, and makes you re-evaluate your priorities in life, but for small children it may be a bit too powerful untill they are teens and are able to grasp it better.

but i would reccommend this video to any christian who is struggling, or just in need of a tune-up. it DOES help!