*THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS*

I'm trying to decide if my disappointment in this movie is due to all the hype it got during its awards season, or if I would've disliked it as much anyway. It was entertaining enough and moved along quickly, but when the credits rolled, I was left confused about why it was so lauded.

I didn't like any of the characters in the movie. The main character, Ryan Bingham, is the most developed and the most tolerable, mostly thanks to a nuanced performance by George Clooney. But when the movie ventures into some cliched romantic comedy moments (complete with Bingham suddenly dropping everything in the middle of a lecture and going running through an airport to see his beloved) it gets a little hard to watch.

The two main female characters are both awful in different ways. Natalie, a book smart but naive hotshot fresh out of college, is hired to completely overhaul the workings of what seems like a successful, well-established company that she has no experience at, in a field she's never worked in. During their professional travels together, Natalie takes it upon herself to angrily lecture Bingham about his lifestyle choices, the gall that he displays by not wishing to get married and have children, as if she had never heard of such a thing. I found that to be annoying and rude. Who talks like that to a coworker? But of course, that talk leads to an epiphany for Bingham.

Natalie also makes a huge show of bawling into Bingham's arms in a hotel lobby because her boyfriend broke up with her. It was such a ridiculous and over-acted scene, obviously played that way for comic effect, but it just made her look even more green and unprofessional. I couldn't suspend my belief enough to accept that a kid like that would manage to get hired to do that job.

Alex, the other female lead, seems more promising until her big shocking secret that ruins everything is revealed near the end. As far as I know, there was nothing hinted at that made us think she was anything other than an unattached, single woman, so that was disappointing. The writers could've kept her at least somewhat respectable by having her ultimately reject Bingham just because she wishes to not be committed to anyone, but instead she's just a manipulative woman cheating on her husband and lying to her family. Great.

The other negative is that the product placement of American Airlines and (to a lesser extent) Hertz was really distracting. It makes sense that a business would use a single airline and car rental company for its trips, but the extent to which the camera repeatedly lingers over the logos and slogans of American Airlines is too much. The characters also like to discuss all the perks they get from flying American Airlines. Sadly, all the product placement starts to make the movie feel like more of an American Airlines commercial than anything else.