Yes it's a slow movie day when I'm reviewing Adam Sandler's "Mr. Deeds", an alleged remake of the 1936 classic film "Mr. Deeds Goes to Town" by Frank Capra. I have not seen the original, but by all accounts it was the superior of the two. One thing I know for sure, Sandler is no Gary Cooper. But I haven't posted in a while so here it goes.

Sandler plays a good hearted small towner whose rich uncle dies and leaves him a $40 billion empire. Oddly, Sandler, or should I say Sandler's character, seems no more surprised at this event than finding a nickel on the street. His attitude manages to carry over to the audience, as I found myself unimpressed by this vast sum. Maybe it's the tech bubble rubbing off on me - but hearing $40 billion just doesn't seem to impress the way it once might have. Not long ago inheriting a million dollars or more seemed outrageous. But with multibillionaires popping up on the news on a regular basis, I suppose it just takes a little more than a big round number to impress me.

Anyway, the film continues in a predictable manner and trots out the small town America virtues as superior to the big city ethic of greed and workaholism. Deeds gives away stacks of cash to total strangers. Meanwhile evildoers plot to take Deeds' empire from him and ruin his uncle's company. And of course the hardened, opportunistic tabloid reporter Babe Bennet unwittingly falls for Deeds over the course of 90 minutes until her undercover charade is revealed. All seems lost for romance until the two reconcile in a heroic ice pond rescue, and all is forgiven.

I'm sure any diehard Sandlerite will enjoy this film. I will admit that there is a certain appeal to one aspect of his act. There's just something hilarious about Sandler fighting with anyone, especially if he's just bludgeoning them over and over. Whether it's an imaginary penguin or Bob Barker it makes me chuckle every time. Otherwise there was little I found funny in this movie. In fact I can barely remember how it ended, not that it mattered, I'm sure it all worked out ok.

One bright spot I did find was Emilio Lopez played by John Turturro. He played Deeds' capable butler and provided the only interesting and slightly unique character in the film. His mannerism and ability to move silently and almost instantly about any room provided some relief from an otherwise uneventful movie.