'Lost Souls' makes an effort to be a film that ranks up there with 'The Exorcist' but it doesn't quite succeed.  I agree with the majority of the reviews posted here regarding the spectacular cinematography.  The director manages to create an dark atmosphere that literally screams suspense.  However, this does not compensate for the weak, unoriginal storyline and sub-par performances by some of the actors.  Wynonna Ryder's performance in particular, is flat and downright unbelievable.  She fails to inject any real emotion or drama in her performance whatsoever, which seriously damages the film.  We don't view her as the unlikely hero, the saviour of mankind, just as an annoyance whose whole approach is 'ho hum, been there, done that'.  Ben Chaplin is equally middle-of-the-road in his performance, although I think he did what he could with what he was given.  They tried to focus on creating a sympathetic and likable character, but he and Ryder have NO on-screen chemistry, which certainly didn't help.  You end up waiting for some big thing that never happens (well, until the end). John Hurt manages to steal most of the scenes that he is in...and even manages to out-act Ryder when he is supposed to be in a coma (what does THAT tell you).  
It was a extremely good move to keep the so-called exorcisms reduced to distorted, half-seen segments, filled with screams of agony and terror.  This forced the viewer to rely on their imagination, as it is the unseen, the unknown, is usually what provokes the most fear.  For example, take the first 'Alien'  'Halloween', 'Psycho', or 'Nightmare on Elm Street' for example. You never really got a good look at that alien, Michael Meyers, Norman's Mother or Freddy Kruger in the original version of any of these films.  That's what made it so damn scary as our childhood fear of the dark or the boogeyman, were justified time and again.  This was one of the few redeeming qualities of the film because when film-makers rely on in-your-face tactics, it usually ends up just being unrealistic and cheesy special effects.  However,this film tends to take itself too seriously in its efforts to make it a new twist on an old story, and frankly, it just doesn't cut it.  It relies on the same old religious references and 'evil' icons.  The cinematography and the surprise ending are really the only thing that make this film worth watching.  Rent it first, you'd have to be a pretty serious fan of this genre or Ryder or whoever to find it worthy of a purchase.