Although this first installment in the highly successful slasher series lacks what it is most famous for - serial killer Jason Vorhees - it is the best in the series. The infamous score by Harry Manfredini is excellent and scary and carries the film very well. The cast of basic unknowns adds to the sense of isolation that the makers of this film knew was a key element to making it as frightening as it is.
Critics love to trash this movie but it must have done something right to spawn more sequels than any other.
The plot probably needs no explanation but goes simply like this: Counselors setting up a camp in the middle of the woods are killed one by one in, each in a different grisly manner, but who is doing the killing?
Many people take so many aspects of this film for granted because it has been ripped-off so many times (although, to be fair, it is somewhat a rip-off in itself of Halloween - using a holiday and a slasher killing teens). But this film introduced many elements into a genre it would actually almost invent by itself - the slasher film.
First off all, we have the wooded setting, next we have a series of gruesome and creative killings (tamed by today's standards), using the camera to make you, the viewer, see the slaying of the victims through the eyes of the killer.
The shock-ending of this film was probably the most effective of its kind in movie history and during its run at the theaters, you would inevitably hear a tremendous letout of screams right before the movie ended (I won't mention what this is just on the slight notion that someone doesn't know what I'm talking about). But the reason this scene succeeded so well was simple...because the film effectively created a genuiune feeling of terror and suspense for the first 85 minutes and took viewers by surprise.
FRIDAY THE 13TH looks great in this digitally remastered widescreen DVD and helps to eliminate the dated look it was taking on due to increasingly poorer VHS releases. The only special features that this film does have are the trailer (which is not remastered but shows the great contrast between the remastered and unremastered prints) and chapter selection. Unfortunately this is not the un-cut version but for some reason does contain a few extra seconds of blood in one scene (the third killing in the film of Annie) and a few deleted scenes in another (the decapitation near the end of the movie) and also contains a few extra seconds of the sex scene. An uncut version or collector's edition has been cried out for amongst the many fans of FRIDAY THE 13TH but has been inexplicably ignored by its distributor, Paramount Pictures, who basically view this cash cow as a blemish on the face of their film catalog.