What a shame that people go to movies these days to watch, rather than to listen. Joseph L. Mankiewicz, who won best picture, best director and best adapted screenplay Oscars for "All About Eve," understood what filmmakers today do not--that cinema is as much a verbal medium as it is a visual one.
If you happen to doubt that statement, then consider "Eve," which, more than half a century later, is still one of the finest movies ever made, if not the finest. It is a brilliant black comedy, a social satire so scathing it almost leaves burn marks on the projector--but above all, it is a loving and beloved paean to the English language. To savor "All About Eve's" delicious dialogue, to relish every diabolical twist and turn, is as natural as responding to the visceral thrills in "Speed."
The entire story unfolds in flashback, narrated at different times by different people, in a way that playfully undermines the notion of human perception. When we first meet Eve Harrington (Anne Baxter), she seems to be a naive innocent, a slave to her idolatry--she all but worships the great stage actress Margo Channing (Bette Davis). Eve shows her true colors, however, as she subtly insinuates herself into a group of high-profile theater folk that includes Margo, her boyfriend/director Bill Sampson (Gary Merrill), playwright Lloyd Richards (Hugh Marlowe) and his wife, Karen (Celeste Holm).
A word of warning: this movie is talky. Real talky. And anyone who dares consider himself a movie fan should thank his lucky stars that it is, for "All About Eve" may be the most gloriously, decadently, magnificently talky film ever. Mankiewicz, who couldn't write a flat or uninvolving sentence if he tried, is positively drunk on the intoxicating power of the spoken word, and in "Eve" he wrote a script that, with its pacing, structure, suspense, and razor-sharp wit, remains the standard against which all screenplays are measured. "Fasten your seat belts; it's going to be a bumpy night" doesn't even begin to describe how sheerly pleasurable it is to listen to these people speak, to listen as they plot, connive, banter and lash out at each other with an articulation that today's hack writers, favoring expletives over eloquence, couldn't even dream of duplicating.
In a cast filled with memorable performances--among them that of Oscar winner George Sanders, as the acerbic theatre critic Addison DeWitt--Davis' is the strongest. She's vitriolic and vulnerable, childish and mature, maddening and lovable all at once. When Eve, in a moment of typically disingenuous flattery, calls Margo "a great actress--and a great woman," we don't doubt it for a second. The title may say otherwise, but Davis never lets us forget who this movie is really all about.