Lots of spoilers in this review, don't read if you don't want to have the experience of this mind bogglingly good movie spoiled (the plot twist even got me). You may want to read this after you've seen the movie though, have some jumbled thoughts on why I think it's so good, if you even fathom the thought of caring.

Now, I must agree with everyone that the first movie was much more aesthetically pleasing - big gun battles, dead bugs, heroism up the wazoo. However, in order to fully appreciate what is being done here (and it's magnificent) you have to tie both movies together. I'll start with the first movie (Starship Troopers), and relate it to how it comes into play on earth.

First of all, I'd like to say that 9/11 was a bad thing... 9/11 pertains to my comments. The first movie (with a little help from the second movie) foreshadows 9/11 or something thereof. As patriotic propoganda speaks, terrorists attacked the world trade center unprovoked. The same happens in Movie 1; Rio gets destroyed by bugs... note the similarity - terrorists & bugs are the same. Now, in movie 1, propaganda is all over the place... "would you like to know more?" "be a hero in the federation!" yet this is contradicted in movie 2 by the "fallen" hero. He says the definition of a hero is a fool, and that officers only show the recruits where they should die, he's obviously not fooled (anymore?) by war propaganda. This movie delivers strong messages, the strongest being the anti-war theme. The second movie is a "reality" factor, whilst the first movie portrays war from a "heroic" point of view, kindof like our hearts were filled with patriotism when the terrorists took down the trade center, and we got our juices going to kick some ass in the middle east. Now, we're in a pile of (manure) just like the squad is in movie 2, (hello, reality!) stranded behind our electrical fence post thing (movie reference), when the real damage is being done from the inside (hi terrorist with the aisle seat). My thoughts are bouncy and I'm not writing another essay!

Anyways, back to the terrorist / bug thing. Notice that the bugs in movie 2 (SPOILER!!!!!) enter the marines and destroy the marine squad from the inside, where they are the most vulnerable. Terrorists are hidden in our society and intend to strike from within.

I want to emphasize how these movies contradict eachother; heroism is cherished over all else in the first movie, while heroism is considered foolish in the second. Do we still have that 9/11 fervor to take out terrorism, or are we just "fresh meat for the grinder" in Iraq? We're already mad at Bush for sending our children to Baghdad. Is the federation (bush administration) just furthering the tainted American dream, or is he genuinely waging a war on terror? (hell, I'm 18 in a month, and I might kick the can in a year; say hello to the draft)

This is a memorable movie, atleast for me... please note that my thoughts are totally jumbled and not strewn together in a cohesive thesis, but I find if you critically think about these movies they are a parallel to what is going on today with the war on terrorism (those dirty bugs!) and the blatant use of propaganda during 9/11 to further the war for oil (if it's not for oil, take a look at Sudan, and perhaps the years in America pre 1856. Thanks).

I probably forgot to mention a few other things, but this is a great movie if you like to think about things in an odd way. Graphics aren't outstanding, however there is witty dialogue. "The definition of hero is fool" The introduction made me laugh because I thought the movie was going to be horrible (I NEVER HEARD OF IT BEFORE!!!) but it gets much better about 15 minutes in. If you want mindless killing, get the first movie. If you want a good story with some strong themes, get the second one.

Please also note that the last time I've seen the first movie is atleast two to three years ago, so I may be overlooking some critical pieces of evidence that could totally obliterate my thesis.

my 2 thoughts worth

I give it 8/10.