SAW is a true horror classic no doubt about it.  Damn he {or she} who remakes this film...EVER.  In the world of gore-porn and endless remakes or "re-imaginations", {I have to say this ~ Rob Zombie is pathetic for "re-imagining" Halloween...thanks for trashing it Rob} SAW stands alone as a film that is sick, very disturbing, scary, intense, frightful, mentally numbing, thrilling, avante garde, theatrical, spontaneous, evil, and macabre! This is a film where the villains recorded voice is as disturbing as his actions..and the villain is not even revealed until the last minute of the film...literally the final scene.  The film cannot be compared to Se7en because we see most of the torture in the film and the villain takes up more time giving his monologue than Jigsaw's "Most people are so ungrateful to be alive...but not you...not anymore."

Two men wake up in a grimy abandoned bathroom chained and unable to escape.  We see a dead man laying in the middle of the floor.  His tape recorder reveals the two men are part of a deadly "game" in which only one of them will survive...if he can find the primal instinct..the "will" to survive.  As the film progresses we learn about "Jigsaw" who tortures his "test subjects" in order to make them appreciate their lives they have apparently abused.  Jigsaw's "test subjects" include: Jeff a man who attempted suicide but failed, Amanda the drug addict, Adam the voyeur photographer and loser, and Dr. Gordon a doctor who neglects his wife and daughter.  Jigsaw makes them realize their blessings in his tortuous devices where the subject must maime his/her self or another to escape.

The films gives us clues to the identity of Jigsaw, directing attention to the orderly called Mr. Hindel aka "Zepp"...or is the killer one of the men chained in the bathroom? Dr. Gordon? Adam? The film is a Hitchcockian mystery to figure out 'who is doing this...and why?' that draws you to an intense and disturbing {not to mention disgusting} climax that will leave you stunned.

I like the film because like Se7en there is a sick twisted pathos that is plain and painfully clear in our times:  "most people are so ungrateful to be alive...."

<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1419654047">The Curse of Aleister Crowley: Descent into Lies and Madness</a>