I remember reading reviews for this film when it was theatrically
released (a very limited release) and for the most part the reviews
were so-so. It seemed that the critics were bothered by the fact that
it was Garcia's love letter to Cuba and therefore wrote it off as self
indulgent. Unfortunately, I made the mistake of paying attention to
those critics and waited to see it on cable. Obviously I enjoyed the
film and now wish that I could have seen it on the big screen simply
because it deserves that kind of respect. In other words I find it rare
that Hollywood releases a film worth buying a ticket for (sometimes
even for Oscar nominated films).

Therefore, I have taken to watching older movies simply because it
seems to me that most contemporary filmmakers are scared to make films
with metaphors, symbols, motifs, etc. Are contemporary critics scared
to praise a film that utilizes these important narrative elements?
Sometimes I wonder...

Yes, this film is a love letter to Cuba and the screen displays the
blood, sweat and tears Garcia went through to get it shown to the
public. That alone is commendable but the acting, the cinematography
and most importantly the script are high caliber. Self indulgent? Not
at all, but it does display Garcia's feelings about the contentious
issue of pre-revolutionary versus post-revolutionary Cuba. It's clear
that his version of Che Guevara conflicts with "The Motorcycle Diaries"
version but putting that aside his biases are not historically
inaccurate. This is Garcia's Cuba and therefore we are seeing it
through the experiences of Fico who for the most part doesn't play an
active role in the government or in the revolution. He's not a
politician, he's an entertainer whose world is disrupted by a new
popular "faceless" ideology (note that we never see an actor portray
Fidel to the camera, his back is all we ever see). He's neither a fan
of the old regime and all he sees in the new regime is the same all
over again.

Once this is made clear the film explores Fico's personal crisis
through metaphor. Take the role of "The Writer" played mysteriously by
Bill Murray who introduces himself as a stand up comedian as a good
example of a narrative device. The only time Bill's character shows up
are at moments that are tense. He plays a sort of "fool" type character
(not unlike the fool in King Lear) who adds commentary to what's going
on. It is almost as if it were Fico's consciousness traveling with him
and troubling him all at once. Notice that he has no name and it's made
clear throughout the film that when he's asked his name he either
changes the subject or is interrupted before he says anything.

However, the greatest metaphor in the film is the role that Aurora
embodies. She is the physical representation of Cuba, better yet, she
IS Cuba. This allows Garcia's Fico to express his feelings towards his
"lost City". Note that she was once married by another man who died
with his ideals (like a country who goes from one government to the
next) and has now moved onto becoming the "Widow of the Revolution"
enamored by the ideals of Fidel. This breaks Fico's heart and he
expresses his love to her, to Cuba and where he stands in this hostile
climate.

Now don't get me wrong, I'm not praising the film for its politics and
I won't express here where I stand as far as the real Cuba is
concerned. What I am praising is the work as a piece of art. Garcia
took great care in creating something personal but also something most
exiled Cubans and probably most exiled people of any country could
relate to. This care resulted in a powerful display of film-making, the
kind of film-making that unfortunately doesn't break box office
records. That's why I wished I had seen it on the big screen, just so I
could add a little support to the kind of films that are rarely made.