Being into action films, I heard many things about "Equilibrium".  Mainly, everyone talks about its gun, sword, and fist fights.  After finally seeing it (thank God I did), I realized there's so much more to the story than violence and action.  Underneath, you can find a beautifully written story that is both compelling and thought provoking.

In the beginning of the film, it is told that World War III has occurred.  The war's catalyst was emotion: people would have feelings and take their feelings out on others.  After WWIII, people all over the world were given a drug that would take away all emotions.  Noone could feel, which meant noone could harm anyone else.  This is what society has become.

Now, people who do not take the drug ("sense offenders") hide countless pieces of music, literature, art, and even animals so that they can feel like the others cannot.  This is where the government comes in.  They send in Clerics such as Cleric John Preston (Christian Bale) to wipe out any sense offenders for their wrong-doings.  Clerics are also on the drug, so even after they kill many people, it doesn't affect them in anyway.

All that changes after Preston kills his old partner, because he too was also beginning to "feel".  Preston misses the dosage of his drug and finally starts to realize what is actually happening in his world.  Using his his special up-close combat skills and his newly acquire emotions, Preston delves deeper into society and exactly who the good guys are: the government he worked for or the "sense offenders".

This film works on so many levels for me.  There are just so many great things that make it even more interesting to watch.

First off, the action scenes.  I hear many people say, "Oh, 'Equilibrium', it rips off 'The Matrix' in terms of action."  Okay, first, "The Matrix" is overrated.  Second, the action scenes are "so" different.  There is no bullet time, no CGI, no wire, kung-fu stuff.  The way Preston fights may seem a bit unrealistic, but this is the future, and the battles are choreographed tightly and are never too long, which doesn't leave our minds numbed, but actually making us want more.  In other words, that battle scenes just plain out rock.

Second, Christian Bale.  It's his job to either make or break this movie.  He totally makes it and passes the mark.  He is excellent.  Words cannot describe his transformation from his wooden state to all out resistance fighter.  It's so perfect and makes sense (no pun intended).  Also, SPECIAL NOTE (SPOILERS) - if you do not cry or shed a tear in the scene with the dogs and Christian Bale's expressions, there is something wrong with you.  A beautiful moment.  Besides that, Taye Diggs, Emma Watson, and Sean Bean were also awesome in their roles which were fairly minor.  Yet, this movie is seriously Christian Bale's.

Third, the direction from Kurt Wimmer is really nicely done.  The pacing is perfect and flows nicely, but not too fast.  The action sequences are also nicely edited, instead of being a mess of close-ups and quick edits (Batman Begins - take notes).  Very good job in direction.

Four, after watching this film, it felt really uplifting and satisfying.  I know this section has nothing to do with the technical or plot aspects of the film, but I just wanted to point out that the movie is just a poetic thing to watch unfold.  It's nicely written, and just perfect.

Overall, "Equilibrium" was an intense action film inside a amazingly structured story.  The film has many underlying messages and is definitely one to watch over and over again.

Rated R for thematic elements and sequences of intense, violent action.