There are really three groups of MASH lovers.  There are those who read the book and love it.  Those who loved the TV series.  Those who loved the movie.  Each group has its reasons why one is better than the other. I read Hooker's two MASH books and  found them funny and in the second one,touching. I enjoyed parts of the TV series, but the movie changed me.  MASH is one of those few movies that people know exactly where they were when they saw this movie and these types of  movies are very rare. I saw MASH in 1970 as a sneak preview to a B motorcycle movie[see my other reviews].  The house was packed because of the first movie and there were very few women there.  The movie started and the  music began and I had no idea what the h__l was going on. As the movie went on I found myself lost in every scene. I laugh because I wanted too, the laughter wasn't forced.  I can remember each scene clearly even today. But as I was watching the movie, I was thinking this isn't Korea, but a jab at Viet Nam.  I slowly realized that I was being shown an anti war movie.  A very good anti war movie that wasn't beating me over the head, but softly creaping into my mind.  In the late 60s and early 70s there were many anti war movies and they were not subtle at all.  People found them to be a big turn off, but not this movie.
 Looking back at it now, this movie pole vaulted Sutherland and Gould to superstar status.  We began to see movies with * in the titles, i.e S*P*Y*S, which was horrible.  WIFFS starting Gould was another anti war comedy, I am joking here it was terrible. But these two did do many very good movies, DON"T LOOK NOW [best sex scene ever} and the LONG GOODBYE.
  MASH opened my eyes to power of movie making, from the great script by Larnder, acting, filming, and theme song.  I never watched this movie again because of the strong impression it left on me.  It colored my view of the TV series and lead me to the books by Richard Hooker.  Don't mention those MASH GOES TO whatever series.
  This generation now remembers only the TV series and then only a lttle.  The kids today may see the TV series on some channel in the afternoon, but go on to something else.  This is to bad because this movie still holds up.  I have listen to students, who saw MASH at their college or in a film study class, rave about how funny it is and how much better it is than the TV series.  They ask me if I have seen it?  I smile and and shake my head.  I have asked them," Is that all it is ?  A comedy?"  The answer is always yes.  Today with the wars that are going on, MASH is just a comedy?  Times are a'changing.