Few with exceptions, Berlioz is a little beyond my taste(though I love Romeo and Juliet, Harold and Italy, and this Opera). Even so,  this is the finest operatic DVD i own.

For those wondering whether or not this is the first choice(due to the recent remastering of the Levine). The answer is a resounding yes. Dont let the star-power of the Levine fool you compared to the relatively little no singers here(with the exception of Susan Graham). In all cases, the singers do a finer job here.
Anna Caterina Antonacci is the finest Cassandre on disc(CD and DVD) and looks the part with her dark, mystique beauty. The Mehoureux Roi is absolutely stunning and emotionally riveting, one of the finest and most transcendental moments I have seen on operatic DVD. Choreble is played  by Ludovic Tezier, a tenor who possess a velvety and powerful(yet tender) instrument. Again, he looks the part perfectly. Lastly, Susan Graham plays Didon in what surely can be stated as her finest performance, a viscious and unbelievably powerful performance. Not only is this the finest version of this completely under-rated opera on DVD, but I also say it is the finest on disc-much more satifying that either of Davis' and way beyond Haitink's boring rendition.
Because it is a DVD, the fact that the singers look their parts perfectly is significant and you will have no trouble believing in any of the roles and in fact find it impossible not to imagine Antonacci as Cassandre from now on.
Normally I am not a fan of period performance, but here it works wonders revealing the winds and horns of the score, while maintaining a fine string sound(especially compared to the overdone Levine\Met version). The monteverdi choir is, as always, first class, and the Orchestre Revolutionaire Romantique is fine with little nothing to quibble about.
Since I am not a fan of the modernization of sets and costumes, The first time I saw this I was put off a little. However, even then I was intrigued by the giant mirror hanging above the stage which allows you  a second view of the action in a most unique fashion.  Most importantly, there is nothing about the staging, unlike so many modernizations, which take you away from the music or distract one from listening( a la the end of Barenboims Gotterdammerung). This is something stage directors need to understand, they are not the stars, the music is and one shold never have to focus on what something means to the point where your thoughts deafen the music. That is not done here. The staging is sparse, unique, intelligent, and respectful.
Of the highest recommendation. Hopefully this will encourage performance and support for one of the most neglected and underappreciated operas in our history.