I'm a huge fan of fantasy films, and this one is just right. When I saw the trailer, I thought yet again another remake of Peter Pan with super special effects and screaming kids off to Neverland.  But as they say, never judge a movie by its trailer.  I was pleasantly surprised with this film!  
Peter Pan for the first time is played by a child actor of suitable age, Jeremy Sumpter. He pulls off the portrayal excellently.  Every smirk, movement of the eyebrow, and teasing laugh captures all the mischievous and adventurous charm that is Peter Pan.  You cannot blame Wendy for falling for him.  He fulfills just about everything that is in her heart's desire.  However, Peter Pan is not just a crafty sprite who plays games and laughs all day.  We discover throughout the movie that he's a lot more three dimensional.  He does have feelings, he's flawed, he cries and when he fights, he actually gets beat around a good few times. He does not always think happy thoughts when it comes to bad news about Wendy.  
That's what is very special about this film.  It slows down enough to explore the feelings Peter Pan and Wendy have for one another since both of them are on the brink of puberty.  This is captured in a tender and sweet Dance of the Fairies.  I have never seen such an enchanting moment pictured on film.  It's a scene so memorably delicate, it often brings tears to my eyes.  It makes you want to go awwwwwwww!  It was at this point in the movie I realized the film was going to be more than just a game of Pirates versus Peter Pan and the kids.  
There's another one of those endearing moments between Wendy and Peter Pan later in the film, but why spoil the fun of it?  Might it involve a thimble?
I'm a big fan of Jason Isaacs so his version of Capt Hook is by far the best, putting past Hooks to shame.  The man is entirely dashing with amazing outfits (not just red).  This Capt Hook has taste, culture and cunning.  Isaacs is brilliant at striking the right balance of humour and malice in Hook without making him a caricature. He's somewhat chivalrous and still manages to shows respect for his enemy. And he worries. He is constantly reminded of his mortality by the ticking clock in the belly of that menacing crocodile.  What a loss to die old, alone and done for.  He hates the endless youthful carefree nature of Peter Pan; when he discovers Pan and Wendy's budding relationship, Hook is both fascinated and depressed.

Smee is a delightful comic relief but never a stooge. The banter between him and Hook is humorous yet balanced enough to show that Hook is still in charge and not a man to be crossed.  In Spielberg's "Hook" too much time was spent on the comic episodes between Smee and Hook that you sometimes wondered if they were staying focused on the task of finding Peter Pan.  
The Darling children were absolutely darling without being over the top.  Just as Peter Pan is played first time by a boy, we get to see the first girl Wendy.  Rachel and Jeremy have great on-screen chemistry which adds to the magic of the film.  And the Lost Boys were sepctaular.  They were far more realistic than those obnoxiously annoying brats in Spielberg's version.  No cheesy lines like Rufiioooo or Bangerang, thank goodness.  However, one of my favorite lines in this flim is when Hook rolls his eyes at Wendy wanting to give Pan a gift and bawks, "How like a girl!"
Best of all is Tinkerbell.  Ludivine Sagnier is perfectly cast. She is such an expressive actress, giving Tinkerbell an adoringly playful and mischievous charm suitable for a fairy jealous of Wendy's affections for Pan.  She's much closer to the Disney version of Tinkerbell except slightly less graceful. Julia Roberts made for a boring chatty lovelorn Tinkerbell, waiting for that moment when Peter Pan will show up at her doorstep to give him a real kiss or hoping he'll call. A pretty boring and desparate version of Tinkerbell really. 
This is a great film that'll be loved by all ages with memorable scenes full of adventure and enchantment enchanced by a brilliant score.  Congratualtions, PJ Hogan, you've created a masterpiece. This is definitely one movie to add to your video library.