Dekalog is a a ten-part made-for-TV mini series.  Some people say that most of the episodes deal with moral choices.  I find that the episodes deal with life's situations that people find themselves in or that they create for themselves.  A reviewer writes, "Although the stories have received a subtitle to associate each of them with a commandment, these were not present in the original vision of the director and were added later by the Venice Film Festival's press office."  I find this imposition to be somewhat of a distraction.  One reviewer writes, "The ten films are apparently based on the ten commandments, but this relationship is tentative."  I find the relationship nonexistent.

You are better off disregarding the subtitles as well as the interpretations of the episodes.  The interpretations given for the collection that I have, like the subtitles, are imposed.  For example, Dekalog I is subtitled "Thou shall have no other God before you."  However, the professor and his son do not worship their computer, a theme much discussed at the time that the episode was made.  The man has confidence in his calculations because he is a student/teacher of the discipline.  Nature intervenes; thus, the result is beyond human control.  It is not a punishment for breaking a commandment, which is implied by the subtitle: it is what happens to some people in life.  Dekalog III, subtitled "Honour the Sabbath Day," is another example.  It is not about disregarding the Sabbath.  It is about a divorced woman trying to insert herself back into her ex-husband's life because of her loneliness: she is a person desperate to cling to the only time in her life when she felt love.

 The scenes are presented in a "very muted, monochromatic color," another reviewer writes.  It seems that the director's view of life may be the same.  We see "Very well done portrayals of people dealing with difficult situations."  Overall, the episodes are examples of fine filmmaking, and the project is something that any director/filmmaker would be proud to put his/her name to.  Dekalog is well worth viewing, and purchasing, as is examining other people's views of it.