Wow! X-Men 2 did not lose any momentum from X-Men 1! If you haven't seen this movie yet, run, don't walk to your nearest theater and get in line! This movies continues the plot of Wolverine searching for clues to his past, which ties in directly to the bad guy of the month, Colonel Stryker, a human who is out to kill all the mutant aborrations.
The plot of Stryker is based on a comic book by Chris Claremont entitled, "God Loves, Man Kills" (buy it...), where a religious fanatic (Stryker) gets a "call by God" to kill all mutants, and has a paramilitary organization funded by his religious ministry to do such that. In the movie, he doesn't have religious ties, but rather he has a personal crusade because of... well I won't tell you!
Apart from headliners Prof. Xavier, Cyclops, Jean Grey, Wolverine, Nightcrawler, Storm, Ice Man, Rogue and Pyro, along with baddies Magneto and Mystique, there are mutant guest appareances in this movie include: Dr. Hank McCoy, Jubliee, Shadowcat, Colossus, Syrin, Mastermind (sort of), and Lady Deathstrike (sort of). The credits list "Remy Lebau / Gambit" as well, but I didn't spot him.
I'm wondering if Stan Lee found himself a cameo, too, like he had in the first X-Men movie and the Daredevil movie, but I didn't catch it if it was in there.
Of course, what's an X-Men movie with Magneto? The title and trailer both betray the plot fact that the forces who were in opposition in "X1" are working together in this one against their common foe, Stryker. But after the movie's over, where does it leave these two temporarily-allied camps? Well I guess we'll find out in X3, which mmmmust be made since it's terribly obvious in X2 that there is so much more story begging to be told (and wrapped up.)
Seeing these merry mutants on the big screen gave me goosebumps. As a long time (17 years!) reader of the X-Men comic books, it is very satisfying to see them bigger than life in a very well-made movie with top-notch special effects, acting, and most impotantly, a seamless plot!
If you love a good sci-fi action movie, or if you enjoyed the first X-Men movie, you should see this one while it is still on the big screen!