This, the third disc in Elite Entertainment's Drive-In Discs series, is great fun!  Technical improvements make it even better in some ways than its predecessors, and the new prices for all three of these discs is now just HALF the cost of the first editions for discs 1 and 2!
Here's what you get:  Classic drive-in intermission films (snack bar ads, the national anthem...all the stuff we remember so fondly).  Two very old "Gumby" shorts (which are hilarious and trippy, in equal measure).  Feature film #1, "I Bury the Living," a creepy psychological thriller rather than a flat-out spook show, starring Richard Boone.  Feature film #2, "The Hand," an AIP British-made flick about a disembodied hand that crawls around strangling people.
And best of all...DISTORTO!!  Distorto actually simulates the experience of being in a real drive-in theater.  The soundtrack of the movie emanates from the left front speaker of your sound system, sounding authentically thin and tinny.  From the other speakers, crickets chirp, cars zoom by on the freeway, gravel crunches under the feet of people who walk by, and a boy and girl out on a date occasionally speak to each other.  During intermission between the two feature films, an impromptu rainstorm causes rain to pelt the roof and hood of your "car" while squeaky windshield wipers allow you to see the screen!  How cool is that?
While the first two drive-in discs in this series are also fun, there were complaints in some quarters about 1) Much of the intermission material on disc #2 being the same as on disc #1,  2) Noticeable pauses between each intermission short that took away from the feeling of "being there," and 3) A certain lack of quality in the presentation of the movies.
All of these issues have been addressed beautifully in disc #3.  Virtually all of the intermission material is all-new and previously unreleased (the only exception I can think of is the classic "Let's all go to the lobby" short), the pauses between each segment have been eliminated, and the presentation of the movies is a vast improvement over the presentation of, say, "The Screaming Skull" in disc #1.
What are you waiting for?  At this low price, you couldn't pay for yourself and a date to go to a "hardtop," "indoor bullstuff" movie even once.  Pop some corn, grab a soda, put this disc on the player and travel back in time to enjoy the drive-in theater the way it used to be!