Alfred Hitchcock featured many blonde leading ladies in his films. In Psycho, we're fortunate enough to be treated to no less than TWO attractive blondes: Vera Miles and Janet Leigh. The former played Lila Crane, the sister of Janet Leigh's character Marion Crane. Both of these blondes would sooner or later wind-up in the company of Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins). One of the ladies would die tragically, making her the "fatal blonde," the other would barely escape her own death attempting to unravel the mystery surrounding her sister's disappearance.

Marion Crane was inwardly bitter of the fact that she could not marry her boyfriend Sam Loomis due to his financial woes. At her job with the real estate office, Marion's resentment was pushed further when an overbearing client boasted to her of the $40,000 home he was purchasing as a present for HIS daughter's wedding. After blatantly waving the $40,000 bankroll in Marion's face, he dropped it on her desk and beckoned her to "count 'em!" It was a demonstration he would later regret. Acting on a romantic notion, and perhaps also a spiteful impulse to punish the obnoxious client, Marion absconded with his money in an attempt to create a new life for herself and Sam.

The scene of a lifeless, colorless desert hung on the wall behind Marion's desk. When she left her office for the last time (with the client's money), the scene of a lush, colorful paradise behind a VACANT desk was shown right before the disolve. Those were symbolic of Marion's virtual escape or transition from her drab existence as an unhappy single secretary to her much prefered lifestyle with Sam as a happily married wife and mother; safe and financially secure on their own "private island."

On the run, Marion became lost in a rainstorm. A lighted sign in the distance announced the Bates motel. She decided to stay there for the night and wait-out the storm. Marion was brutally murdered at this motel and her body cleverly disposed of in a seemingly routine fashion.

Interesting Psycho Fact #1: Mr. Cassidy, whose money Marion stole, uttered the rather uncharacteristic phrase "Hot Creepers" in reaction to the news of the theft. That sounded more like the vernacular someone such as Beaver Cleaver would have used to express astonishment than that of the shrewed, free-wheeling, man-of-the-world Cassidy.

Interesting Psycho Fact #2: At home, as Marion packed suitcases for her fateful journey, her shower, complete with flowered curtain, was visibly looming in the background like an ironic premonition.

Marion was a somewhat sexy and sophisticated blonde number whom Norman Bates took an immediate liking to. She was quite fascinating to him - fatally fascinating, and as things turned-out she became "Norman's fatal blonde." She was a good-looking number all right, but an UNLUCKY number just the same.

When the police finally pulled Marion's Ford from the swamp, even before they could pry open the trunk, one of the first things they probably did was to scrape the mud off of the license plates in order to positively identify the vehicle. Marion's plates were NFB 418. If they had read the letters and added-up the numbers correctly, the contents of the trunk would have been foretold: NFB = Norman's Fatal Blonde - Marion. 4 + 1 + 8 = 13, an unlucky number - Marion.

Interesting Psycho Fact #3: For a guy that had as much to conceal in his home as Norman Bates did, he never seemed to be too concerned about keeping the front door locked.

Enter Lila Crane, Marion's sister. She arrived at the Bates motel with the intention of searching for any and all possible clues to Marion's disappearance. Lila eyeballed Norman suspiciously while registering in his office, when he smiled at her she could barely bring herself to reciprocate. Lila was a gutsy woman who didn't like to take "no" for an answer; "no," however, seemed to be a favorite reply of Norman's mother, Mrs. Bates. It would have made for an interesting confrontation had Lila been able to question Mrs. Bates as Lila had planned.

Interesting Psycho Fact #4: While in Norman's bedroom, Lila was drawn to a book that had no title on its cover or spine. She opened the book and saw something inside that interested her, we were not shown the page, only Lila's expressionless face. What was the book? What did she see in it?

Lila was almost murdered after finding Mrs. Bates, and the last we saw of Norman, he was sitting in a room at the county courthouse. Look closely at the cop standing by the door of the room, it was future TV star Ted Knight.

Theater-goers in 1960 had never experienced anything like Psycho before, it was the first of its kind, and like a recurring nightmare, its images and sounds would continue to haunt them LONG after the curtains closed and the house lights went up.