Tense touchy topic meets a superb director's skills. The result, IMHO, the best-dramatized film of gay youth among the dozen existing. All controversial issues have potential drama in them--conflict, action,  suspense. But only the best novel writers or film directors employ the  potential to create work we don't just watch, we experience.
So here.  British highschooler Steven Carter is gay, meets "questioning"  athletic classmate, gets involved, but Steve's secretive at home, dad is  puzzled, mom gradually puts pieces together, and then that anonymous  article on being gay submitted to the school paper, who write it, how will  Steve's would-be girlfriend react to his coming out to her, etc.....
But  that's just plot. Average artists just report plot, superior directors  recreate the dramatic tensions of it. Sure, homosexuality is laden with  drama if any subject is. (For Example: am I or am I not.....to come out or  not.....is he or isn't he....."but he's getting  married!".....duplicity: who knows, who doesn't, who suspects but do  they really.....I'm out to him but not to them....the powder-keg  atmosphere, will the straight athletes explode with fear? the tragicomedy  of errors, "didn't Steve say he stayed overnight at YOUR house last  night, and if not, where...."Etc.)
All good grist for the mill. But  only a superior writer/director mines this raw material to create, not just  to claim, real experience. 9 out of 10 films don't do as well as here.  "Beautiful Thing" remains good, but.....!
So many audience can  enjoy this. (1) "Crossovers." Straight peers and parents. It's  less didactic, more engrossing, than "Trevor." And because it  doesn't discuss, but actually re-creates, the pain and the unfairness and  the fear and the joy and the isolation, the film is worth 10 brochures. (2)  All students of artistry--see how it's done, how skill translates emotions  onto the screen. (3) Anyone who loves well-done art. Which was surely me.  Which might be you too. You go and see now. All the way thru to the film's  slam-bang crescendo finale. Why not? Get reel!