First let me say this.  I am giving this DVD 4 Stars because of the extras.  Commentary is fine, interviews are ok, except they are sprinkled in the biography portion.  To see them you read a page about the actor, you hit the arrow button and you hear a soundbyte from them.  Then you read more, and see more.  Repeat this over and over and you have the gist of it.  But where is the Trailer?  I mean there are DVDs that have only a trailer like the Rock and Escape From New York, and call it a special feature.  Anyway, let's talk about this masterpiece called Way of The Gun.
The first scene is a little harsh.  You have the two "heros" sitting on a car exchanging nasty words with a couple.  There is some violence towards women, and a couple choice words.  But I feel it's there to let you know what to expect from this movie, a warning if you will.  The opening credits are a nice throwback to the movies of the 50s and 60s as well.  Just who is in it and who did what on a black screen with no fancy fonts.  Cut to the movie.  You have Ryan Phillipe (in his best role) and Benicio Del Toro (another stellar role for this fine actor) as two criminals living by the day and dollar to dollar.  While at the spermbank (they get paid big bucks, but in reality you only get like $50.00 and that's after 3 months of work) they hear about a surrogate mother for a rich couple, and they hatch a plan to kidnap her.  And hilarity ensues.  
I don't want to give away too much, but there is one of the slowest carchases ever, and in a good way.  Taye Diggs does an awesome follow-up to Go, and James Caan is great as (almost) always.  There are people called "bagmen" (the guy that drops the ransom off) in this film that make Member Only almost cool again.  Almost.  Sharp dialogue and a nice homage to Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, the two "heros" go by the last names of Butch and Sundance.  Also some creative use of barb wire and some nice twists in character.  Do yourself a favor and buy this movie, you owe it to yourself.