Charles Bronson (born in Aberystwith as Mickey Peterson) was (is) one of Britain's most notorious prisoners, by dint of being one of its most violent incarcerates. I believe that the fellow has spent some 30y in nick (transferred from one institution to the next as his welcome wore out) most of which time was done in solitary.

The film portrays this unsavoury character as a caricature, often breaking the fourth wall and playing him directly to the viewer (and even, wearing whiteface, to a fictitious, on-screen audience). This may seem odd and off the wall, but from what little I know of the real Charles Bronson, he was (is) a larger than life show-man, an overdone self-caricature so, in many ways the film may not be far from the truth in its depiction of the man. It is certainly uneasy viewing and I found myself liking the guy for his eccentricities, forgetting the real reason for his notoriety. Of course this is soon (and frequently) rectified as the film doesn't shy away from his nastier tendencies and the violence, itself almost stylised, comes thick, fast and extreme.

The film is certainly dominated by Tom Hardy's spellbindingly excellent depiction of a dangerously unstable and hugely unpredictable, yet deeply charming thug. Hardy clearly threw himself into the role with some brio and he conveys this strange mixture of attributes cerebrally AND athletically. The remainder of the cast is very much scenery dressing although, to be fair, their personalities are rather overshadowed by the larger-than-life central character.

In the end, although it makes no attempt to excuse Bronson of his faults, the film does rather appear to skirt around the edges of glorifying his violent behaviour and an impressionable viewer could come away from the film thinking of the man as a bit of an anti-hero. "You're pitiful", Bronson's prison governor says to him and it's hard to disagree that any man who, pretty much out of choice, spent the majority of his life behind bars IS pitiful.

An interesting, disturbing semi-fictional biopic of an interesting, disturbed and (probably) semi-fictional character.

Recommended, but approach with caution, especially as you get to see rather more of Mr Hardy's "old chap" than is perhaps savoury before the watershed (or after it, for that matter)...