Tremors is a movie that I grew up watching since it came out. I can remember renting it a lot as a kid and owning it on VHS (the VHS copy I bought was horrible and never really played well).

Tremors stars Kevin Bacon, Fred Ward, Michael Gross, Reba McIntire, and Finn Carter (who interestingly enough, is not only from my state but grew up in the same city I lived in for a few years as a kid). In a Nevada desert resides a tiny town called Perfection which is geographically isolated due to mountains on one side of the town. At the start, Earl and Val (Ward and Bacon respectively) are two handymen looking to finally get out of town for greener pastures but not before they meet seismologist student Rhonda. Unfortunately for the duo, just as they decide to leave town for good, never-before-seen large creatures appear besieging the citizens of Perfection and trap them there seemingly without any chance of escape. These worm-like creatures reside under the ground and hunt by vibration.

One of the things I think I love about Tremors that the sequels failed to (or just plain were unable to) capture--though the fourth movie at least tried--was the sense of isolationism the characters felt and the seemingly inability to know how to handle the creatures. These are monsters no one has ever seen but apparently have lived underground for centuries and yet, because of their location, no help would come until it was too late....if ever. I loved the sense of "what do we do?" the movie had going on.

I think this is one of those movies that could have somewhat easily fallen into "cheesy and bad acting" territory. On the good side, this didn't happen. All the acting was pretty good as was the writing.

The picture quality for the blu-ray was good. Not many complaints there. However, I do have one. At the end of the movie, the last two scenes were almost jarring. The second to last scene was fine but then the very last shot, the drop in quality compared to the rest of the movie was pretty noticeable to me.