Director Steven Spielberg's classic 1977 follow-up to "Jaws," "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" stars Richard Dreyfuss as Roy Neary. Neary's just an ordinary blue collar guy, a bit of a dreamer with a taste for Disney films and miniature railroads... until he witnesses a spectacular UFO appearance. Haunted by mental images of a mountain he's never seen before, Neary risks his job, his marriage, his sanity and, eventually, his life to uncover what it all means.
"Close Encounters" also marks the first appearance of the Spielberg formula. You know, the messy suburban house, the mouthy kids, the whole "just plain folks involved with something magical" storyline. And while he gets a lot of knocks, both justified and unjustified, for inflicting this on American movies in the 80s, Spielberg's use of documentary-like elements throughout (as the space people play some Burmuda Triangle-related tricks on what's apparently an international investigation team) and some funky casting (Teri Garr, French director Francois Truffaut, Bob Balaban and others) combine to lend this one a veracity some of his later films- and those of his imitators- sometimes lack. This is a very fresh and original take on sci-fi subject matter, completely without physical violence (although there is some of the emotional kind). Seeing decades later after so many heartless, bombastic, noise and light CGI fests, one can't help but admire Spielberg's ability to get to the emotional core of this material.
Plus, it helps that the cutesy elements are kept to a minimum. There's Melinda Dillon as a single mom whose oh-so-adorable-with-his-big-eyes kid gets kidnapped by the UFOs; the scene is played for scares, rather than laughs and it is genuinely terrifying. Neary's kids are mostly unpleasant, and gone after the halfway point. Dreyfuss downplays Neary's potential drippyness and plays up his frustration and rage as circumstances overwhelm him. And Garr is very believable as Neary's doubtful wife; she keeps the character from becoming a one-note shrew. You actually sympathize with her as she deals with what she thinks is her husband's selfish midlife crisis.
The film ends with an amazing sequence of events and actually takes on an epic scope without losing the human element that makes it all so enjoyable. This DVD release follows the format from the recent "Jaws" disk: a gorgeous widescreen print, a few deleted scenes, some documentaries. A handsome release.