The Halloween series is my favourite of all horror movie series, this is because the best films of the Halloween franchise are not just about mindless gore they have a chilling thriller feel about them which seperates Halloween from other Horrors.

Halloween 1,2 and H20 are the 3 which are the best out of the whole franchise. I only watch these three as a sort of trilogy because i feel they follow on well from each other and the plot is sort of believable whereas 4,5 and 6 just seem stupid and run the series on with two many new characters and plots.

Halloween 2 starts off just where 1 ended which is brilliant and not seen in many sequels, you jump right in with Laurie (Curtis) being taken to the hospital because of her first clash with the deranged Myers. You also see the return of Loomis (Pleasance) who is still chasing after his estranged patient and this carries on throughout the entire film. The film still has that chilling pace which the first one used so well and the film is really one of the best horror sequels there has been. The main part of the film is set in the Haddonfield Memorial Hospital where Laurie is taken for her injuries and is a good setting for the sequel. We learn that Myers is Lauries brother which explains why he is so obsessed with killing her, this is where the action picks up as Myers makes it to the hospital and starts to kill off everyone who comes in contact with him. He eventually catches up with Laurie and Loomis in the hospital and the ending sees Loomis and Myers blown up in an explosion with Laurie escaping just in the nick of time.

Overall i believe this is a brillant film only beaten by the original and with only a few flaws. The film seems to have too much of Laurie not taking part and being stuck in a bed and also the films setting the hospital is at times too dark and even though it is at night just two deserted with hardly anyone around. This said it is the best of the Halloween sequels with H20 2nd and is is good horror picture with some fantastic effort from actors and director to make it as close to the original as possible.