After waiting for a very long time to acquire the Bond Ultimate Edition sets at a reasonable price, I finally ditched my Special Editions in favor of the new ones. I, perhaps like many others, was always reluctant to give up my Special Editions because frankly I spent a lot of time and money putting the original, Special Edition set together.

After watching the Special Edition and Ultimate Edition of "Dr.No", I finally realized how "ultimate" the new discs are.  Gone are the film scratches, imperfections and faded colors that plagued most of the Bond early films such as the Connery & some of the Moore films. The new Dolby & DTS 5.1 surround sound are fantastic! The 1962 "Dr. No" looks like it was filmed yesterday.  The special features on "Dr. No" includes a segment on the outstanding work put into the frame by frame restoration. A truly tremendous effort and much appreciated!

I like the slim-line cases for the new sets. My entire Bond collection now only takes up less than half the space on my shelves than it did before.  Although I tend to agree with other reviewers that it's kind of cheesy how the booklets for each film are stored in the box and not the individual cases, the overall quality of the DVD's negate any negatives. I spend more time watching the films than browsing the booklets.  Forget buying any of the Ultimate Editions individually which are single discs because the DVD's in the Ultimate Edition box sets are double-disc sets. One disc for the feature film for optimized quality and one disc for the special features.

I'm not bothered in the fact that all films in all four volumes are not packaged chronologically, since I went through the same process when I purchased the Special Edition box sets. I understand the studio's logic for "mixing it up", since a chronological DVD order would mean more popular sales for the Connery sets and lower sales for the Moore/Dalton sets. I'm a fan of all the Bond films as I appreciate all of the different actors from Connery, Lazenby, Moore, Dalton, Bronson to Craig and for what each one of them has contributed to the Bond Legacy. Many thanks to Daniel Craig for resurrecting this franchise with his outstanding debut in "Casino Royale". Looking forward to "Quantum of Solace" later this year.

VOLUME 3; This is personally my favorite volume because it contains my favorite Bond film "On Her Majesty's Secret Service". Although Lazenby's one & only performance was questionable I like all of the elements of the film including Bond's surprising marriage which was unfortunately and tragically very brief. I also really like "Live & Let Die" which was Moore's debut film. I liked it despite the odd settings of Moore in Harlem being called "honkey" in a predominately, black neighborhood. Moore's other effort "For Your Eyes Only" simplifies the antics of Moore to more conventional methods after Moore's previous efforts while flying in Space and driving submarine cars. Bronson's debut film "Goldeneye" is great also (love the tank scene in Russia!) as well as Connery's classic "From Russia with Love".