Good grief to all of you 'This is an unethical movie' crybabies.
First of all, this is a complex, challenging film that has many layered messages. Even the messages it presents are not exactly definable nor are they without debate and this is the sign of a strong work of art.
Next up;
MESSAGE TO ALL OF YOU SO CALLED 'OFFENDED' CHRISTIANS.
Let's be frank.
I am sick of listening to uptight Christians screaming bloody murder over everything that doesn't fit into their very small box of ideas.
CHRISTIANITY IS THE SILLIEST OF ALL RELIGIONS and I for one am glad to see a film with enough guts to call a spade a spade.
If Jesus Christ even existed, his followers certainly don't follow his lead. This man preached 'Do Unto Others' 'Turn the other cheek' and 'The Meek Shall inherit the Earth'.
Hardly the precepts of Christianity.
Christians have, throughout history, bullied, persecuted, and BUTCHERED more people than ALL other faiths combined (including Islam).
It's treatment of women remains despicable even today.
And then we have all of the so called Bible's errors.
From Genesis to Revelations the Bible is loaded with so many contradictions that anyone with more than a single digit IQ cannot take it seriousely.
From the hypocricy of Thanksgivng (sure the Indians welcomed us with turkey and then within 2 years we started slaughtering them for refusing to convert to our beliefs) to the Quite clear religious right administration we now have, Christians have long stuck their god forsaken noses in everybody's business and have insisted on all following their so called codes of morality.
Hell, even in old Hollywood the Legion Of Decency was dictating  to the studios on how to make film!
Today everytime a movie comes along which shakes up the BS of the Christian faith all you whiney Christians start yelping about the loss of ethics and how your faith is being persecuted. HELLO. Chrisitanity has been in power since Constantine.
But then, most Christians aren't even aware of that.
As a matter of fact most Christians don't even know their own book of beliefs.
Which proves one thing:
For the most part christianity is for the stupid masses and even little incidental reviews like for a small little known film gets the Christians all bent out of shape.
doesn't take much to shake them does it?
PS.
NOTE TO WRATHFUL BUDDAH.
first of all, I didn't read your review at all. And I wasn't referring to ANY particular reviewer, not even the one with heading 'most unethical film ever', but i was referring instead to some other reviwers context.
secondly, while I appreciate your review and think it well written I cannot agree totally with you on one major difference.
I happened to have read Paxton's own take on this (his) film. Now while I admit that a lot of films are so complex that many many interpetations can be forthcoming (Kubrick's films are like that) I think I will take the director's view as being one the one with the most authority.
and Paxton; a professed Non-Believer (!) said the film was not about God, but about obsession and he pointed out that ALL of the ax murders take place off screen, indicating that the Father and BOTH sons are religiousely demented. ALL are hallucinating and it's possible that the murders actually never even took place.
I can see why some might take this as right wing but from the words of Paxton, who comes across as very liberal, none of the charcters are sympathetic and the point of the film is that religious zeal becomes so blinding that all that remains in the aftermath is total confusion.And the world's no better off with religion. which I think is apt. The test of a true religion is this:
Has it made the world better and has it given us structure, order, truth?
The answer is an absolute NO. It's done just the opposite of all of that and these point are the drive of Paxton's film.
Several (unnamed) reviewers were spouting off regarding the film's Anti-Christian message. And they're right. The film is definitely Anti-Chrisitanity and that comes straight from the horse's mouth.
One might also check out the movie called 'RAPTURE' with the vastly underrated Mimi Rogers. It has very similar sentiments.