I managed to get one copy of Season II for my father (a big fan) during the recall. Since then I have tried in vain to get a second copy for myself. I am keeping my fingers crossed that someday I will get Season II and all the remaining five seasons. Anyway, I just want to say that nothing is wrong with any of the disks. I have watched them all. All of them are recorded with superior quality. Season II sets, characters, plots, and music are better than ever. The Michael and Nikita on again off again love affair begins. Also we get to see the development of the other character storylines also. Season II makes you fall in love again with all the characters and the show itself. As far as the reason it was pulled from release, I have a theory that I heard some ealier discussion. After watching the episode called the "End Game", I am convinced that the argument given to Nikita by Operations and Adrianne for invading or not invading Iraq is the true reason this DVD set is not being released. There is a lot of discussion in that episode as to what would happen in the Middle East and in the rest of the world if Saddam was toppled. In addition to that the director and producer makes their comments on that argument, and even comments they may have given Bush the idea. I would say not to look forward to this DVD set to be released until after the election. A certain political party has successfully and repetitively pulled any negative shows off the air that could influence the voting public. Case in point: a Dateline episode that listed the soldiers by name that died in Iraq. This DVD is explosively damaging to the pro-invasion of Iraq argument. A lot of money was probably spent to delay this DVD release until after the election. Maybe even until things simmer down in Iraq. Maybe the estimated date of 2010 is correct. Maybe they think things will change by then. But it is amazing to me that when we were watching this show in the 90s, how we never dreamed much of the storylines in Nikita would come true in the future. Perhaps it's only crime is that it has become too real. What an excellent show and great DVD set! Do what you can to get a copy of Season II. It is worth every penny! If I could give it a rating of 10 stars, I would!