Having been a fan of Clive Barker for many years, loving his books, and original films, I was a little trepidatious when it came to the fifth Hellraiser installment, especialy as Clive had pretty much much disowned it....a shame really, because it is a good film!
OK, it has a few questions hanging over it...such as just how did Pinhead get back?  We'd seen him fairly well obliterated in Bloodlines, so how does he come to be here, haunting the dreams, and life, of Craig Scheffer? How also did Pinhead take on the mantle of The Engineer? (Anyone familiar with the history of the whole Hellraiser story will know that the Engineer and Pinhead are two seperate entities, and could never be one and the same).  Aside from that, the film moves at a reasonable pace, has a few well orchestrated set pieces; some of them very 'spooky', and some excellent new Cenebites.  Those blank, featureless, bloody creatures are actually quite un-nerving, especially compared to the OTT creations from the past couple of flicks...CD Man, the twins twisted together, etc.
The way these new Cenobites were presented was effective, in the haunted grey, snowy wastes of a hallway, in a foggy forrest, always in a place you didn't expect to be in anyway!
The film relies more on the deep seated disquiet of unfamiliar surroundings when you least expect it, and that works very well, making it more of a very badly haunted house scenario than that to which we had become accustomed.
Doug Bradley, though only on screen for a few minutes, is superb, as usual.  He obviously realises, as an actor, as to the power of his character of Pinhead, and never lets it become just another Jason/ Freddy cartoon character.  He plays it with such dark dignity; almost majesty, that his few moments onscreen are almost a revelation!  A wonderful character that I hope will never become a fey sham of it's glorious self!!
The basic plot is fairly contrived, and oft-used, but the way in which it is presented is quite fresh, and the overall dark tone, with the underlying Cenobite involvement makes for a very watcheable film.  A good chapter in the Hellraiser chronicle.