Nowadays, there are so few real, quality horror films that get enough recognition. Sure, there are a good deal of great films that are under the radar of the mainstream, but when a really good horror movie of recent times comes around, it's definitely worth notice. And "Session 9" is worth the notice!

Taking influence largely from "The Shining", in my opinion, "Session 9" is a psychological horror film with a great deal of intense and mysterious atmosphere that's laid on thicker than Thanksgiving gravy. The powerful sense of dread and chilling mystery presented throughout the film is simply enticing and definitely makes you want to see the whole thing. In addition to the asylum, which is one of the big reasons why the film is so great, this film delves pretty deeply into psychology with the recorded sessions of the asylum patients. This part definitely sucked me in, because psychology has always been a topic of great curiosity to me.

Running at 1 hour and 40 minutes, this movie is longer than most slashers and about as long as more psychological films. However, the length of the film doesn't drag it down or make it boring, because the movie is able to fill all 100 minutes with interest and mystery. Honestly, the asylum is one of the greatest locations I've seen in a while in horror films. The written part is also done excellently, showcasing a strong plot and chilling series of events. In addition, the acting is great, with the actors showing how truly talented they are, regardless of how much mainstream attention they get.

Overall, with a dark and bleak feeling throughout, and a bitter ending, this is not a fun film by any means. However, "Session 9" is a film that will suck you into its mystery, depth, darkness and bleak appeal. If the feeling of this movie is too strong, I recommend washing it off with another great, modern-day horror film such as "Planet Terror" (even if it isn't 100% horror, it's great nonetheless). But as for this film, well, "Session 9" is the psychological horror film to beat of modern movies! Highly recommended for those interested in such a film, and to close, just because I love the quote so much, I need to say it again. "Where do you live?" --- "I live...in the weak...and the wounded!". Thanks for the time, and peace.