"Breezy" is the perfect movie to watch on a warm, lazy Sunday afternoon. You will absolutely love it!

The story line was well edited; what I mean by this is that you never get that; "it-can-only-happen-in-a-movie" sense. This is what the story is about:

Breezy is a young (about 18 or 19), free spirited girl who lives her life spontaneously, but deep inside is a very wise soul. She doesn't have a job or goes to college, but lives day to day and always seems to be happy. She smiles a lot and is wise enough to know that happiness is all a matter of perspective, how one chooses to interpret things and see the world. You get the sense, very early in the movie that Breezy is a genuinely good person.

Frankie is an older gentleman (50s) who lives alone and doesn't feel that he needs anyone in his life. He has convinced himself that being alone is not all that bad. He is a real estate broken that owns a very nice home and seems to live a quiet life. You get the sense, early in the movie that Franky is genuinely a good person as well.

Like two boats floating on the surface of a vast ocean, its currents (fate) seem to draw the two boats towards each other. You would think that judging just from surface factors, that each person has something that the other might want or need. Breezy needs a home, food and stability. Franky; companionship and love--yet the movie is about something deeper, something more genuine, something that transcends time and space and the limitations of our conditioned mind.

Nothing is rushed, everything just unfolds naturally. Breezy, her innocence, her purity causes her to very quickly fall in love with Franky, whose many more years of mental conditioning causes him to put up much more of a resistance. He doesn't want to hurt her or hurt himself by enaging in something that just simply can't be. I hope that I am not giving too much of the movie away. It is a very beautiful movie, and I highly recommend it. I hope that as more and more people watch it, that more reviews in favor of it pile up.

It is one of those beautifully subtle movies that stays with you for a few days, like a cool breeze gently brushing your face on a warm summer day.

I give it two thumbs way up!