I had seen this movie maybe 25 years ago, and it had stood out in my memory for the brilliance of its performances and its haunting mood of increasing psychological tension.  So I rented it recently from Netflix just to see how it looks with the passage of time.  Some movies age better than others, and I wanted to see if Wicker Man was as good as my recollection of it.

I am delighted to say I think the movie holds up very well; it is a classic of its genre and I highly recommend it to movie fans who enjoy psychological thrillers.

The details of the plot are well known: a devoutly Christian policeman, played by Edward Woodward in a superlative performance, is summoned to a remote island to track down a report of a missing young girl.  From the start, he encounters a passive/aggressive mixture of social civility but strong resistance to his investigation, coupled with the repeated warning that he's in over his head and doesn't understand what he's getting into.

Although he's given different and contradictory explanations, the most frequent version is that the girl doesn't exist -- even though he finds clear signals he is being lied to, which affronts his clearly developed sense of wrong.

As he begins his investigation, he is also confronted with abundant evidence that the residents of this isle are most clearly not Christian, that they worship a vaguely Druidic and pagan cult that embraces frank sexuality.  To our repressed policeman, this overt sexualism, coupled with what he believes to be direct deceptions about the missing girl, causes him to believe that the residents are engaged in an evil conspiracy of silence.  And in his repressed fury, he feels a moral duty to get to the bottom of the mystery.  Eventually he does so, of course, to his great dismay.

Purely from a story-telling perspective, this is a terrific movie.  There isn't a wasted scene.  Every scene yields another clue or another perspective on the villagers, and the photography has a highly naturalistic, almost documentary feel.  As the clues pile up, pressure heightens on the policeman, leading inevitably to the film's spectacular denouement.  Some of the reviewers have complained about the pace; they say the movie moves much too slowly.  I don't agree; the whole point is to let the tension build slowly but inexorably.  Although this movie preceded it, the intentionally langorous pace reminds me of Picnic at Hanging Rock.

The photography is quite good, and has the good sense to simply back off and let you enjoy the austere beauty of this island, from its little seaside village to its craggy shoreline.  You can tell that Wicker Man was shot with a very limited number of cameras; there aren't a lot of jump cuts and reaction shots, even in the tavern scene.  While that is doubtless partly a function of the limited budget, it is also clear that it is a directorial choice. The mise-en-scene is intended to let the story come to a slow but steady boil  To modern viewers, the pace may seem poky and slow, but this is a movie you have to take on its own terms.  You can always rent Days of Thunder again if you need a fix of crash-bang.