From the looks of things here people either love this film, or they loathe it. To my mind what this translates to is that some people actually UNDERSTAND it and some people don't. And that's OK. Because as the man says...it ain't for everybody. But it SHOULD be... 
So those who understand this film, you know who you are. In this day and age there aren't many films like this one that come our way. We're thankful for them when they do. Let's talk about it.
It's interesting to me when those who see fit to trash a film like this one in their "review" do so because they are frustrated by it's message (or lack thereof in some folks' opinions). And there are quite a few here who are down right fearful of a film like this one. That fear often translates into "this film sucks". Heh heh heh. Imagine. AFRAID of a story. Afraid of what it could represent.
I think nay-sayers have a "problem" with the characters in this film. This is a story set during a time that is so foreign to most people on the planet that it translates to folks "becoming bored" by it. Modern minds are conditioned to quick cuts and edits that occur millisecond after millisecond like computer enhanced advertisements, and the pacing of this film is something that makes them reach for their Fast Forward buttons. For those with itchy thumbs, you need to understand that the 1920's were "simpler" times in many ways. There were no televisions, no world wide web, no cell phones, or microwave ovens, no drive thru fast food, it was a time when family, friends, pride in a job well done (no matter what your profession was), hard work, and "spiritual" reflection were possible and were PRACTICED. That was the way. And people were closer to the environment (The Nature). They interacted with nature. 
Now the other thing that tends to freak people out is to see someone (with so much promise and potential) lose their focus and hide in self pity and FEAR. It happens, folks. In fact it's all too common these days. And we're talking about hard HARD "things" to overcome here. Our main character in this film sets out to overcome, and does so little by little, but it's always a tightrope. Make no mistake, this is a difficult thing to capture on film or in the printed word. This film successfully captures that battle to overcome. For the film makers to have the courage alone to decide to tackle a "subject" like this is difficult, not to mention finding (corporate) financing to fund a project and story such as this one. You will see no death defying car chases during the course of this film.
The fact that the primary (male) characters in this film are golfers is almost irrelevant. They could just as easily have been mountain climbers, or deep sea divers, or race car drivers. The common denominator among all of these interests that I've named here is that to "play" these "sports" you have to find the "fire" within. You dig? In a golf game it's just you and the course. How well you perform depends solely on how well you tap in (to your Self) to "find your swing", and once you've tapped "in" you (simply) let "it" guide you through the game. YOUR game. And in 1920, in our story here, even a boy could understand that much. And that's all you really need to know, people. Best of luck in finding your swing y'all. 
"...it's a game that can never be won, only PLAYED."
- Bagger Vance