Few people have heard of, let alone seen this movie so there is much talk over it's relevance to the Welles' canon, so let me try to clear a few things up.  After the social (and only social) disaster that was Citizen Kane, Welles rapidly became a much loathed person in Hollywood.  Funny how attaching the head of all of the media industry can do that.  And after RKO destroyed his epic, The Magnificent Ambersons-possibly the saddest story in all of Hollywood- and also after pulling the plug on his ill-fated and once again Lost masterpiece, It's All True (a documentary on the Brazilian culture and their everyday struggles), they pegged Welles as a man who runs up movie budgets astronomically with little attention to a studios' demands.  Now while that may have been true to some of his work (Lady from Shanghai for instance), it certainly wasn't true for It's all True.  And so once again Welles was seen as an outsider that few production companies wanted anything to do with.  So he desperately needed a hit to get back in and on the good side of Hollywood.  And thus you have, The Stranger.

A suspense tale about postwar Nazi's hiding in America's suburbia.  Now this is often said to be below Welles, so let me explain.  One, Welles admittedly said this was for entertainment ( an easy popcorn flick) rather than art, and two, he once again like so many of his other films, had it drastically re-edited without his approval.  Little is known about Welles' version other than that he had a twenty-minute documentary about the end of the Nazi regime to begin the film.  Most likely a segue into the story so people had a better understanding of the circumstances surrounding the story.

The beginning of the film (the re-edited beginning that is) is brilliant and top notch Welles with it's mix of paranoia, suspense and an overall haunting atmosphere featuring some if his typically "Wellesian compositions" (always a treat).  However, the brilliance, dies down after that point into a rather straightforward suspense drama.  The interesting angles and metaphoric lighting are nowhere to be scene; although, it does occasionally use some of Welles trademark close-ups.  The plot is standard, I don't consider it to be "hammy" as some reviewers have said but it doesn't hold a candle to Hitchcock in terms of suspense.  But then again, Welles intentionally dumbed-down the movie in hopes that  audiences would like that.

It does feature some great acting though.  Edward G. Robinson does a masterful job playing the detective meant to capture Professor Charles Rankin ( Welles).  Rankin's wife, Loretta Young, also does a magnificent job in her role as well.  Many have said Welles overacted this one, but I don't see it.  He's being hunted down for Nazi war crimes and the detective keeps closing in on him, little by little.  I don't know about you, but that would make me a bit shaky and overly paranoid.  Towards the end, we get little treats here and there of those lovely "Wellesian-compositions."  And then of coarse you have the famous clock tower ending.  Now in my opinion, it wasn't quite as good or suspenseful as I had hoped it to be but it is interesting and will consistently have your attention.

Probably the most noteworthy affair that takes place in the film is that you are shown actual footage of the Nazi concentration camps.  Now this is first time in Hollywood that footage of the atrocity is placed in a movie.  That alone, gives The Stranger some historical legitimacy.

Sadly, despite Welles' best intentions this movie failed at the box office and he was again cast into obscurity for years as a director (although still doing bit parts in movies here and there).  As far as it's relevance to the canon, I would say it's recommended for die-hard Welles' fans but not necessary for cinephiles.  It doesn't really offer up anything new or needed, but can be a fun (if still sub par) watch for Welles' fans (just rent it once really).  But for those of you who liked this side of Welles  but just didn't care for the artistically low-quality, check out his masterpiece, Touch of Evil.  It's astonishing in every way and definitely demanded viewing for fans of Welles or just the Cinema.  A timeless work of art.