"My week with Marilyn", was a very big disappointment to me. I had to watch this DVD three different times to make sure I was writing a review that was not bias. I have been studying Marilyn Monroe since 1969 and I have to say they had Marilyn's troubled side down very well. However, with that being said I think a carried that message over a little too much. The bonus features on this DVD really did not explain enough for me to say that this was or should have been Oscar worthy. I know it was nominated but I still cannot figure out why.

The actors in this film were good and they did give it an excellent try, some more than others, as a character study for Marilyn Monroe. Michelle Williams as much as I wanted to see her as Marilyn just did not do it in my mind. Let me qualify that statement by saying her height and weight did not fit Marilyn Monroe's body sculpture nor did the voice and facial expressions totally come through as Marilyn Monroe. Michelle did not have that breathy sound as she saying or spoke. Michelle has a wonderful voice for singing, Marilyn on the other hand had a sensual breathy sound to her voice when singing or speaking. Michelle Williams really had the moxie to get out there and try this part and succeed as she did. After all an Oscar nomination is not bad. The young man playing Colin was wonderful I'm surprised that he was not at least recognize in some fashion for his portrayal in this film. Emily Watson was wonderful and brought a different view to Marilyn Monroe on the set. This dimension should have been brought forward a little more.

There are so many areas that could have been brought forward in a film like this that were not that disappointed me. It seemed as though this was more of a character study than a portrait of an American actress who was loved and despised simultaneously by many in the industry and in her fan base.

This would've been better off as a TV movie instead of a feature film. It seemed a little long with redundancy throughout the film. I did not read the book that this DVD was supposed to came from. So I cannot do a compare and contrast of the two.

I hope this recommendation is going to get you to think before you purchase of a possible rental. It is worth the rental fee. Comments are welcome.