I have not viewed the DVD of this, so I can't comment on the quality of the bonus features or anything like that.  I saw it in Grauman's Chinese Theater opening night with a packed house and the excitement was all around me.  The last two X-men movies were decent adaptations under the helm of Bryan Singer, X2 being the superior movie, and although Brett Ratner had taken over the directing reins, I was willing to give him the benefit of the doubt and I went in without any pre-conceived notions.  I came out angry that they ruined what could have been the best X-men movie thus far.

So going into it, I thought X3 had a lot of potential.  From the trailers it seemed to have some really great action in it as well as visual effects.  I thought the opening scene was really fantastic.  When I saw the giant sentinel head fall down through the fog I got really psyched because I figured it was foreshadowing the fact that we'd be seeing more sentinels later on.  And then you never do!

I liked the fact that it turns out to be a danger room sequence because that's something else I always wanted to see in the movies as well, so it was off to a good start.  And then it immediately started going downhill when Jean returns as Phoenix and they kill off Cyclops.  I will admit Cyclops isn't my favorite X-man, but I definitely feel he got the shaft in these movies.  He was hardly in X2 and then to just kill him off like that?  He definitely should have been around for the final battle at least.  Supposedly the reason behind this being that when I heard the screenwriter Simon Kinberg speaking at Comic Con this past year in San Diego, he explained the reason he killed Cyclops off so early was to show the audience right off the bat that anything can and will happen in this movie.  I believe the more accurate explanation is that James Marsden was busy shooting Superman Returns with Bryan Singer and so it was probably in his contract that he required a minor role in The Last Stand.

I liked Beast a lot in it.  He was a great addition and I wish he had been in every single movie.  That's probably the one thing most people will agree they did right.  Kelsey Grammer was a great casting choice. He really nailed the character showing us Beast's intelligence as well as his ferocity in battle.  It was cool to see Angel make an appearance but he wasn't in it very much and they didn't develop the Cure storyline very well.

It was obvious they were going to eventually have a Pyro/Iceman showdown and it was cool to finally see him turn into ice, but they should have done it sooner.  I wanted to see him surf on ice like he does in the comics.  And I can't believe they didn't have a Juggernaut/Colossus match!  How could they possibly have these two in the same movie and not think to do that is beyond me.

All right, so here's my biggest complaint and the biggest change I would have made.  I hated the fact that they kept taking away mutant powers from characters like Mystique and Magneto.  I won't even get started on Prof. X getting killed because it does happen eventually.  The worst thing though is having Rogue go through with the cure.  I was completely convinced that at some point she would show up again and touch Phoenix, and not only would that bring Jean back to normal, but then Rogue would gain her flying and strength abilities through that and be able to fly around and destroy stuff in the final battle.  I realize it's not exactly the way it was done in Marvel continuity but it would have been much better than the alternative.  The fact that Rogue lost her power and they killed off Phoenix was the worst decision ever!  It made Rogue's character pointless throughout the entire series in my opinion.  Why would they put her in the first movie without all her powers unless they were planning on giving them to her at some point?  She should have either had them from the start or not been in the series at all if this is how they're going to treat her character.

The Last Stand never really felt like an X-men movie all the way through.  That's why I say it's a decent action movie for those who knew nothing about the X-men prior to the movies, but for fans of the comics and the series, it's truly a disappointment.  They got a few details right here and there, but for the most part it seemed like they just picked up where the last one left off and then made it up from there and had no idea what to do.  What they should have done would be to have ended it with the X-men and the brotherhood of mutants fighting each other, but then had sentinels show up, so they would have had to team up temporarily in order to survive.  If they insisted on including the cure story line, there should have been a subplot about the sentinels rounding up mutants and forcing them to take the cure if they're unwilling to.  I really wanted to see a sentinel battle if you couldn't tell.

And the fact that they teased us with Gambit's name, Remy LeBeau, on a monitor in X2 but didn't bring him in for the third (and possibly final) movie is inexcusable.  I believe part of the reason they were killing off characters and taking away their powers was to put an end to the series, thus "The Last Stand", but I definitely think if they wanted to bring it back in a few years, they could introduce Bishop.  If anyone remembers Bishop, (the time traveling mutant from the comics who's always trying to alter the past to fix the future), and if they were to make another X-men movie, Bishop should come back and stop this movie from happening.  Or at least stop Prof. X and everyone else from dying.  Also the scene at the end of the credits really didn't make much sense at all and it felt like the final insult to X-men fans everywhere.  Overall, I couldn't understand why the producers couldn't have attempted to keep it more true to its comic roots, but for now, we can let the X-men movie franchise rest in peace.