Paul Greengrass has delivered the seminal cinematic essay on the origins of Ireland's troubled history. There are precious few heroes in the course of this film, and while many start out with noble intentions, the road to hell is quickly tarmacadamed.
This is a gripping film shot in cinema-verite style. My Viet Namese companion was uncertain whether the film was actually a real time documentary. The film aims to lay out what happened that created such a monumental disaster and it leaves you emotionally and horrifically exhausted. This is the dropping of the gauntlet and the levels of betrayal, prejudice, manipulation, ulterior motives undercut and destroy the human fabric. What was begun as a bi-partisan civil rights march ignited a six-county corner of the Irish island into a bonfire that still has not burned out. This was arson of the soul. In the murder of this day bitter enemies would find the justificatiion for more than 30 years of murder, mayhem, gun and drug-running, brutality, rape and desecration. Pandorra's box was opened, and all manner of evil was let loose in a society that could just have easily adopted a peaceful resolution. In the aftermath of the death and destruction of this day, modern terrorism from the IRA through the UVF to the PLO and Osama Bin Laden was born and found its legs to launch attack upon attack on the dignity of life. Governments learned to collude with gangsters. Noble human values were bought, sold , subjugated to one side's polemics or another.
To Greengrass's tremendous credit, he takes no sides. He allows the tragedy to unfold objectively. This film puts the lie to the Irish American sentimentality over the IRA and sets the stage for the rapacious and vicious assault suureptitiously promulgated by Margaret Thatcher. For the purposes of this film, this is the people on the street who by little decisions, squeezes of a trigger and bewilderment at the hell let loose, open floodgates to violence here to fore unimagined. This was the singular event that brought all the snakes back to Ireland, and Greengrass films them in an unblinking fashion. Perhaps no other film, save maybe HARRISON'S FLOWERS, so effectively captures just how horribly man is capable of betraying everything that is good about him. Had we not been thrown out of Eden before this horrible day, then we'd surely have been sent packing after this. Jim Nesbitt leads a remarkable cast. At no point do you ever have the sense that these are actors.
If you are sick to death of the green or orange sweater brigades who sloganize terror and murder, this is the film for you. If you are given to marching for one side or another, this film states quite clearly, God forgive you.