When oxygen cylinders violently outgassed aboard the ill-fated Apollo 13, one of the most dramatic events in space exploration history began to unfold. The entire world was glued to their TV sets as the story evolved, and what a story it was.

Apollo 13 tells the story of this amazing rescue. It shows with great realism and detail exactly what happened and what steps the astronauts had to take to ensure their safe return. Over 5000 people on the ground were eventually enlisted in this effort, and if it hadn't been for them, the astronauts would never have made it home.

A lot of effort went into recreating the look of the original launch command center, the lunar module and capsule, and Houston control. Former NASA experts were recruited to help with this, and during shooting in the command centers former NASA employees coached the actors on what to say and do. Toward the end of the movie, Jim Lovell makes a brief cameo as the Admiral aboard the U.S.S. Iwo Jima, which picked up the capsule, who congratulates Tom Hanks on their safe return.

To recreate the weightless scenes, a cargo plane carrying the actors made 612 dives, collecting about 50 minutes of footage for the movie.

Once the original accident occurred, the drama and tension is just non-stop until the very end. The astronauts battled deficiencies in oxygen, fuel cell/electrical power, increasing cold (it finally got to 34 degrees in the cabin), a nearly fatal increase in carbon dioxide (which was successfully averted). Astronaut Haise had a fever of 102 degrees from a urinary tract infection,  but still managed to pull his own weight during the long recovery process.

I watched this movie just recently after seeing it for the first time in 1995, and it holds up very well. At this time Tom Hanks was coming off of back to back Academy Awards for Forrest Gump and Philadelphia, and he was arguably the hottest actor in the world at the time. But he followed it up with another great performance here. The rest of the cast is great as well, especially Ed Harris as the flight director, Gary Sinise as Ken Mattingly, Tom Paxton as Fred Haise, Kevin Bacon as Jack Swigert, and Kathleen Quinlan as Marilyn Lovell. This is one movie that has stood the test of time.