Picked this up last night from redbox. I never knew a whole lot about Uday other than he was apparently super evil and even disliked by Saddam Husein even. Ouch. So I was really excited to watch this and it stays interesting the whole time. The story is told through the body double chosen/forced by Uday. The man's name is Latif. Despite focusing the story on Latif, Uday almost feels like the main character as well because you observe Uday's life through Latif. Dominic Cooper plays both characters and they do a great job making them look similar yet different at the same time. Mostly, Latif is always looking disgusted and upset by Udays actions while Uday is a loud mouth drunkard and all around sinophile. Nevertheless, they did a good job. Latif undergoes some minor surgery to look more like Uday which is why Latif was picked to begin with.

This movie has a lot of shocking moments. I wondered how much of it was true and what was added for drama. After some research, I found that most of the brutality sequences were true including the main ones. Some were the same story but possibly altered and I think some were altered but contained the main theme. The most surprising scene that was actually true except for the setting was a scene where Uday stabs and cuts open Saddams food taster in a public party. In real life, Uday used an electric carving knife, but in both mediums, Uday cut the mans stomach open.....In real life, they were honoring the wife of Hosni Mubarak at a party. The setting was unclear in the movie, but they demonstrate the viciousness clearly. Some characters were added that did't really make any sense, specifically the main female character. She's one of Udays lady friends who becomes attached to Latif. Her role is probably totally false, but I imagine she is there to further add insight into the insanity of Latif and add an unnecessary sex scene later on. I thought this cheapened the movie as well as a scene later when Uday ordered everyone to take off their clothes in a club, even the men. Why was this there? I'm guessing Uday could have done this. However, these moments kept the movie from being a five star rating. I found myself wanting to know more about Udays motives and how he got the way he was. How much power did Uday really have in the government? Why did Saddam give Uday so much free reign? What was their relationship? The real questions are never answered and some of the more interesting stories are never included. For example, in real life, Uday had lions and took many home videos of himself. He had a car collection of over a 100 cars. Uday also had the iraqi soccer team tortured when they lost and beaten. Some of these points are hinted at in the movie, but never developed. At the end, I felt like I wanted this to be a 3 hour special on history channel or national geographic rather than a hollywood movie with fake scenes added for dramatic effect. Its just surprising considering how much material they actually had to work with, that they did not make it as close to true as possible. Not to mention, the whole story may be entirely made up.

[...]

It appears that the real Latif has caused serious doubt among the press for years regarding his story. Apparently, he never mentioned his adventure to anyone until after he was married......Another reason why I wish this was a documentary. Hollywood never tries to find the real story.

Lastly, this movie is full of offensive material. Some of the worst for R rating. Expect a plethora of "F" words and "C" words, torture scenes, calling women foul names, and general obscenities.