I love trains. After "Lawrence of Arabia," I realized why I had so much passion about trains storied away, especial a David Lean train, those long winding black serpents that cross the desert like hells messenger. I love trains, because they carry me off to another place, another time. "Lawrence of Arabia" is no different from the trolley I wrap around the Christmas tree. The movie is its own personality. 
The personality of "Lawrence" is locked inside the cinematography, acting, and directing which is neatly sealed in the DVD. The personality of the movie parallels T.E. Lawrence's ego. A man who elevates himself to a God like status by crossing and rampaging the desert. The movie builds up as well, from the first minute to the last it transforms to one of the greatest films ever. 
What we learn for Lawrence is not about a man at that stage in his life but more on how he went so far in his short time. Peter O'Toole has the blue eyes of man gazing at his destiny; he takes a long look into the future, his death, and the journey he has embarked upon. Those blue eyes that always seem to be burning like the desert and the imaginative camera work creates a sort of archeology out of the movie. It teaches us so much about the hard times of World War I and as I stated before, T.E.'s rise to near perfection.
One of the most interesting things is that T.E. Lawrence blows part of the famous train away. He does this so that he can raid the train. It is certainly one of Hollywood's most memorable moments. If the train represents a certain fragrance of freedom to me, I tend to think that Lawrence might have been on the same train in that thought. Whereas I expand on the dream of freedom and, Lawrence choose to take down the train for personal gain so that he could walk towards the Sun for a brief moment. That is what we must understand in the end. It is better to travel on the train, watch the train as cuts across the desert ... or place it in a particular spot for decoration. This is so much better than tearing the train apart for personal gain. Make a great gain by purchasing this wonderful film.