I could go in depth about how Yes has lost their youth and innocence since The Yes Album, or about how they hit a self-proclaimed rock bottom just a few months before this show, or about how the band has been altered so many times with the revolving door at the keyboard position.  When you hear the first overture of the orchestra, and the sounds of nature that open up Close to the Edge, none of this will matter to you.
This was the second of two shows played on back-to-back nights in Amsterdam featuring Wilhelm Keitel and the European Festival Orchestra, and the programme features Yes playing on a particularly good night for them.  Beautiful song selection and sequence, coupled with the depth and presence of the orchestra, make for a very exciting listen.
Epics, there are a few.  The aforementioned Close to the Edge, had it been sans symphony, would have been nothing in particular to cheer about.  Add the forty or so musicians behind then (many of which are cute ladies!) and a beautiful arrangement of strings, horns, and percussion, and you've got the makings of a truly breathtaking opener.  Steve's clean guitar tones and a mildly slower tempo give the song a mellower feel, albeit with reduced attack.
Gates of Delirium is another song that greatly benefits from having an orchestral arrangement behind it.  The substitution of synthed horns for a real horn section in the hectic middle section makes for a moving experience.  And just wait until you hear Soon with real strings behind it!
Both these songs, however, take a backseat to the night's magnum opus, Ritual.  Being a big fan of percussion, and having heard that the song featured not only an extended Alan White drum solo, but also a very Ritual-istic performance of the remaining band members banging on various drums, I could not help but sit at the edge of my seat throughout the thirty-minute performance.  I won't spoil anything, but this song will move you.  There is a part in the song where the camera angles purposely cut Steve out, and when he finally does come back in, it may bring you to tears!
Other highlights of the programme include a lilting version of In the Presence of, from the new Magnification disc, and a funky orchestra-driven Long Distance Runaround.  And You and I, though it has been a staple of most every Yes concert for the past thirty years, deserves a second listen with the orchestra behind it.
And I haven't neglected to mention Steve's guitar interlude in the middle of the evening.  We are treated to a live Mood for a Day, and a Steve Howe arranged version of Vivaldi's Lute Concerto.  Just watching Steve's fingers gracefully and precisely move about the fretboard is enough to inspire any prospective guitarist.
Low points, few as they may be, must be mentioned for the sake of contrast.  Owner of a Lonely Heart and Roundabout, the two songs that Yes typically closes EVERY concert with, have been done better on other live albums, notably House of Yes.  At some points the stereo mix favors the bass or vocals over guitar and keyboard.  Sometimes I find myself straining to hear Tom Brislin, tour keyboardist, above the symphony.
And about Tom: He seems like his life depends on an over-enthusiastic performance.  He bangs on his poor keyboards during Gates, and is overall too melodramatic.  Of course, this is given with the fact that he was probably just some kid who loves Yes, who was sitting in his basement plugging away at Wakeman's riffs when he got the call.
This concert shows Yes at its most grandiose, yet between songs at its most down to earth.  The documentary included is also a welcome reminder that Yes aren't just music making machines, they're just four (five) mortal men with incredible talent who put on a hell of a great live show.