It's been almost a decade since Director Antoine Fuqua treated us to Training Day, and Brooklyn's Finest proves that he still has the goods.  While not destined to become the fan classic that Denzel helped deliver, Brooklyn's Finest offers up an excellent cast and an explosive ending.

Don Cheadle, as an undercover cop, gives a terrific performance while continuing to prove himself as one of Hollywood's most underrated actors.  It was also amazing to watch Ethan Hawke as a corrupt officer, but unlike Training Day's Alonzo, you really feel his vulnerability.  He's thrown into a pressure cooker early into the film, with tension so real that you can almost touch it.  If you're a diehard fan of HBO's The Wire like myself, you're going to love the casting of Michael K. Williams (Omar Little) and Hassan Johnson (Wee-Bey) as Brooklyn dealers, and Isiah Whitlock Jr (Senator Clay "Sheeee*t" Davis) as a city investigator.  Wesley Snipes gives a great New Jack City throwback performance as drug kingpin Caz.  Richard Gere plays the role of a weathered cop to perfection, despite being handed a script filled with one too many police flick cliches.

Brooklyn's Finest starts especially slow, but really picks up steam past the film's halfway mark.  The cinematography and directing are both on point, and Fuqua's use of lighting is excellent.  Brazilian composer Marcelo Zarvos (Sin Nombre) did a great job with the score, and the rest of the soundtrack fits perfectly (particularly the Busta Rhymes track during a stash house raid).  And like The Wire, police bureaucracy is exposed, corruption is revealed, and the streets take no prisoners.

The film gets four stars instead of five, simply because there are one too many cliches, and the "Crash" concept isn't anything new.  But while the plot is at times implausible and not terribly exciting, the intertwining of characters leading up to the film's conclusion is grim and powerful.  Not the best film of 2010, but don't miss this one if you enjoy The Wire.