Regardless of how you feel personally towards Eminem, his lyrics or Rap music in general, you must give the rapper credit where it is due.  He has an amazing ability to link words and rhymes to make you laugh at yourself, him and others.  His talent as a writer and rapper shine in this movie.  
Eminem plays a young man struggling to escape the poverty he was raised in.  Much of the story takes place at 8 Mile, a stereotypical trailer park in Detroit where Rabbit (Eminem) is forced to moved back home to when he leaves his pregnant girlfriend.  There he faces his mother's failings as both a parent and a human being, trying to shield a young sister from the horrors of life including his mother's drunken stupors and violence.  
His escape and dreams revolve around rap music.  Not being very familiar with this type of music myself, I found the battle scenes very interesting and they are without a doubt the best parts of the movie.  My favorite being an impromptu rap Rabbit creates with a friend to Sweet Home Alabama while trying to fix a car.  The humor and self mockery in the situation seem to sum up the whole movie.  
I would equate this movie with Saturday Night Fever.  The story line is very similar.  A struggling minority (as Rabbit would be one of the few whites attending these battles) facing poverty, growing up and facing his responsibilties.  I thing this movie may in a lot of ways bring some of the hidden aspects of hip hop life styles and rap battles to public light.  
One thing I will admit to being surprised about was the lack of swearing in this movie.  Don't get me wrong, the movie did have it's share, but there was not nearly as much as I had assumed there would be.  It is still not a movie for children though.  
I was disappointed with the character of Alix played by Brittany Murphy.  For the most part I really felt her role in the film was unnecessary and the sex scene was placed for shock value only.  Again though, it was one of the less racy sex scenes I have seen though.  
Eminem does an excellent job acting in this movie, but it is easy to act from experience.  I will not claim he is the next cross over star until I have seen him act in a film that does not mirror his own life. 
The bottom line:  See the movie, it is worth a viewing.  The battle scenes are entertaining and by far the best part of the movie.