This is a very imaginatively conceived & executed retelling of Alice, but, this time, from the viewpoint of an elderly Alice.  Some of it is fiction (necessary to glue the 'facts' together), but superb fiction based on the fact that Mrs. Hargreaves did attend a commemoration ceremony for Lewis Carroll in 1932 at Columbia University.  One can only hope that the ending was based more on fact than fiction, but, alas, we'll never know.

I won't write an essay on the film's merits -outstanding!- because many others have written superlative accounts of DREAMCHILD, and it would be a waste of time trying to say something that hasn't already been said, or to say it more eloquently.  For starters, read the reviews by: "A Costumer", Pamela Scarangello, & "Only-a-Child".

What I want to concentrate on is the technical quality of DREAMCHILD.  I was less than pleased to read that the disk wasn't a pressed DVD, but a burned DVD-R.  No comparison to the robustness & longevity of a 'real' DVD, but if you handle it very carefully, than it should hold up as well.  Longevity, however, is another matter.  A pressed DVD will last around 40 years (and some sources claim 100 years), but a burned DVD could fail in less than a decade because of its chemical construction (again, other sources claim much longer -but no one suggests that a DVD-R disk will last as long as a pressed DVD).  However, since this is the only quality widescreen (16:9) disk of DREAMCHILD that's presently available, you pays yer money and takes yer chances!

My heart skipped a beat when I received the disk and saw a disclaimer on the back stating that the DVD-R disk will play only on a DVD player -not a DVD recorder!  Well, I can assure you, the disk played quite happily on both of my aging Panasonic DVD-Ram recorders.  So, it will be pure bad luck if DREAMCHILD doesn't run on your recorder.

Now a word about the quality of the transfer.  Very good, but not quite as good as one expects to find with a regular DVD.  Only about 95% as good, in my opinion.  However, I've seen a few dreadful, full-screen DVDs of this wonderful film, so I'm not complaining.  Buy this video and enjoy the show!