"Les Miserables" is one of the greatest novels ever ritten.  In addition, its musical counterpart stands as an example of one of the greatest theater productions ever to be created.  Exploring such universal themes as love, law versus grace, and sacrifice, the show contains beautiful characters and unforgettable music.

This story is set against the backdrop of the French Revolution.  Jean Valjean is a convict who has just been released after a nineteen-year prison sentence for stealing a loaf of bread.  He is given his "yellow ticket of leave," which marks him as a criminal, and which he must present everywhere he goes.  After receiving unexpected kindness from a bishop he robs, Jean Valjean makes the decision to break his parole and start a new life.  However, his decision incurs relentless pursuit from the stern yet, ultimately, tormented Inspector Javert.  Jean Valjean will be forced on a journey in which he'll meet unforgettable characters and make momentous decisions that will effect many lives.

This 25th anniversary concert is a true delight from start to finish.  I was particularly mesmerized by Alfie Boe, who brings a tenderness to the role of Jean Valjean.  Although Colm Wilkinson is truly delightful, it is nice to hear a different voice: one that fairly soars with beauty.  Norm Lewis, who portrays Inspector Javert, is truly stunning.  He brings anger, sadness and a steadfast determination to his role.  Javert is one of my favorite characters, and Mr. Lewis truly emphasizes the police inspector's conflicted emotions and unwillingness to submit to the grace that is offered him.  Eponine, my absolute favorite character of the show, is wonderfully portrayed by Samantha Barks.  Her tender voice throbs with pain for her unrequited love for Marius, and her sacrificial actions shine through.  Lea Salonga is perfect as Fantine, the mother who will resort to any means to save her child from cunning and ruthless caregivers.  The other cast members are equally wonderful.
Regarding those who are giving Mr. Nick Jonas, (the pop star who portrays Marius), such a hard time: I honestly thought he did very well.  He is not trained in musical theater, yet his emotions are clear.  Jonas obviously tries very hard and loves the material.

Please give this wonderful production a chance.  God bless you all.