I made the mistake of renting this movie because I was in the mood for an up-to-date horror movie. This was the opposite. I wouldn't even consider this a horror movie, bizarre yes, but not scary whatsoever. I did follow the storyline, it wasn't one of those that just confuses you and leaves you completed bewildered. There were some funny parts towards the end though, not intentionally, but hilarious regardless. This won't spoil it for you, believe me if you're gonna watch this movie, you've already spoiled it for yourself. But the two best parts are (1) at the end when he is being closed-in by all the islanders and he has gun drawn and off to the side two straight up retarded lookin ladies start moving in closer to him and he aims at them and yells "BACK....UP!!". Haha he regulated on them.
Another classic part: I was using my computer and had my head down for ummm, I'd say about 3-5 minutes. So I look up, and I see Nicolas Cage wearing a grizzly bear costume with a whole cut out where his face was. I thought to myself, I really must've missed something. Hahah. But it gets even better, cuz he ran up on this lady and hit her with a cold right hook. Haha. That was the best part, he launched a slap-a-hoe marathon up in there. Classic.
Okay I had to poke fun at those two points. Had to be done. But in all seriousness, I did not like this movie at all. The idea of a desolate Island with a population living in a completely different fashion, luring in an innocent man to use as a sacrifice to their God seemed pretty cool. Given the right Director, this movie (or idea) could've had some great potential. I was shocked/sad at the end though. Because Cage was the main character ya know, I mean he made it through Con-Air alive. But an Island full of old white feminists killed him, and that was the end. I was just waiting saying to myself, he's gonna break out and unleash hell. But yea that didn't happen. I apologize, whereas I would consider this more of a personal rant rather than a review, but I felt the need to inform whomoever it may concern. If you've seen the movie, you probably agree with it all. Thanks for your time.