I really enjoy watching this movie! It is truly a miracle on its own!

Rest in peace to the following: Anne Bancroft, Arthur Penn, William Gibson, Fred Coe

The plot of the movie:

Annie Sullivan (Anne Bancroft), 20, is visually impaired and wears dark glasses to protect her sensitive eyes from the pain of light, and has come to Tuscumbia, Alabama, to teach Helen Keller (Patty Duke), 6, who, at the age of 19 months, was striken blind and deaf after a bout of Scarlet Fever. After many nightmarish flashbacks of her early childhood on the train rides to Tuscumbia, Annie arives at Ivy Green.

After Annie teaches Helen how to spell d-o-l-l (using the manual alphabet) her obstinate pupil deliberately hits Annie in her face with the doll, and breaks one of her teacher's teeth. After being locked in her room, Annie is "chivalrously" saved by her employer (also Helen's father), Captain Keller; after being lugged down a l-a-d-d-e-r.

The next morning, Annie is intent on correcting Helen's table manners; and after a 9 minute scene, she finally succeeds.

Now Annie is sure that she can no longer continue to educate Helen with the Kellers smothering their daughter with indulgence. Annie soon finds a small cottage and askes Captain and Mrs. Keller if she and Helen can move in. After a while of debating, it is decided that the pair, teacher and pupil, will be living together for 2 weeks. After a few small battles, 2 weeks has passed. Annie and Helen return to Ivy Green; though Helen still does not know that objects have a name.

When the entire Keller family (including Annie) sit down for supper, Helen begins to act up. It is up to Annie to insist on civil behavior. Will she follow through with much neede discipline, or will she fall short and give into Helen's disobedience? It's up to you to buy the movie and find out!

I really enjoyed this movie; in fact, it's one of my favorites. If you are either a Anne Bancroft or Patty Duke fan, you should know that they both won Academy Awards for their performances. And I can see why! The rich Irish accent of Anne Bancroft's character, and the always-there "smoked glasses" never seem to leave you alone; I find myself using different quotes from this movie all the time, sometimes the accent slips out, even! Anne Bancroft and Patty Duke are extraodinary and amazing! If I didn't know any better, I'd say I was watching it in real life! Also, just to let you know, it is in black-and-white, (just in case your wondering).

This is definantly a five star movie!!!!!!!!!!!!

If you really like it, you should try these 3 books:

"The Miracle Worker: A Play In Three Acts," by William Gibson (1914-2008; as not to be confused with the "William Gibson" of the "Cyberpunk" fame).

"Miss Spitfire: Reaching Helen Keller," by Sarah Elizabeth Miller.

"Call Me Anna," by Patty Duke. I suggest it because there are a lot of "behind the scenes" stuff, and because she talks about her touching "best-friend" relationship with Annie Bancroft.