This was a very good pay-per-view from top to bottom and one the best Wrestlemanias of all time. Let me get right to it.

First of all the production all night was fantastic. The stage setup, and ring setup with the structure overhead looked amazing. The video packages all night were fantastic as is par for WWE's crew. The lighting was very well done, and entrances were great with many superstars getting costume overhauls. Only a few malfunctions on the night including failed pyro for Kofi's entrance and Mysterio's failed springboard entrance kept this from being the most perfect show WWE has ever done in terms of atmosphere.

Unified Tag Team Championship
Big Show & The Miz def. John Morrison & R-Truth (3 and a half minutes)
This was a very short match, but it was NOT a bad match because of it. This reminded me of WSX matches where the wrestlers barely had any time but packed as much action in that time as they could. Some great spots including Shows huge fallaway slam, Truths top rope legdrop, and Morrison's enziguri kick on Show while Show was on the top rope. The opener is really only meant to warm up the crowd and wet everybody's appetite and this did that perfectly. I can't rate it higher because of the length but is is a solid little match. **

Triple Threat Match
Randy Orton def. Ted Dibiase and Cody Rhodes (9 minutes)
Simple and predictable story but it was effective in establishing that these guys are all going their separate ways now. I thought the action was better than I expected, yet still a little disappointing because I know after Legacy's series with DX that they can have great matches. The crowd was molten for Orton which is a bonus because they were not into Ted or Cody AT ALL. Seemed bored by them actually. Perfectly acceptable triple threat and perfectly fine for the second match at Wrestlemania. Just don't expect to be blown away. **1/2

Money-In-The-Bank Ladder Match
Jack Swagger def. Christian, Kofi Kingston, Evan Bourne, MVP, Drew McIntyre, Matt Hardy, Kane, Dolph Ziggler, and Shelton Benjamin (13 and a half minutes)
I will say right off the bat that this was not the best MITB match. It was still a great match for what it is and I enjoyed it thoroughly. Something I have to applaud these guys for is that somehow someway they still find ways to incorporate new spots into the mix which is extremely hard to do in ladder matches these days. The scaffold spots were great including the SWAGGA ladder sandwich, Bournes SSP off the scaffold, and Hardy taking some sick bumps. The two best spots of the night for me though were Bourne getting hip tossed from the ladder! (he was the star this year as opposed to Benjamin)and Kofi stilt walking with ladders which was sweet. Swagger winning was a surprise but actually a pleasant one as I feel he has huge potential. I would give this four stars except for the fact that it did feel a little too cluttered with 10 men and there were some unfortunate botches that brought it down some. ***1/2

Triple H def Sheamus (12 minutes)
This was this biggest surprise of the night in that instead of a borefest this actually ended up being the fourth best match of the night for me and a very good match in general. The first half was old school mat wrestling meets power wrestling and the audience appreciated it but weren't actually enthralled. The last 4 minutes were great though with some nice teases by both men and a red hot finishing sequence. Sheamus looked like he belonged in the ring with Triple H and H had his best singles match in a LONG time. Great Stuff. And while Sheamus lost he looked good in defeat which is important. ***1/4

If Rey Loses he Joins SES
Rey Mysterio def. CM Punk (6 minutes)
Criminally short at only 6 minutes. The difference between this match and the tag match in me being less tolerable of the length is that expectations were exponentially higher for this match. The story for a awesome match was there and in order for the men to effectively convey it they needed 10+ minutes. Still everyone played their parts perfectly with Rey and Punk going pedal to the medal from the start. Some nice chain wrestling including some sweet counters from Rey kept this match in the very good category despite it's dissapointing duration. I felt Rey losing would have made for a far more interesting storyline going forward, but not necesarily one that would make more sense. Ultimately nitpicking is pointless as this is still a very solid encounter. ***

No Holds Barred Lumberjack Match Special Guest Referee: Bruce Hart
Bret Hart def. Vince McMahon (11 minutes)
This is a very hard match to rate and discuss so I will simply break it into pros and cons. Pros: This delivered exactly what it promised which was an ass kicking for Vince while bringing closure to Montreal. For fans who knew of the infighting in the Hart Family the booking here was brilliant. Seeing Vince get Hart Attacked on the floor and then tapping to the sharpshooter was glorious. Vince's character is finally killed off. Cons: Was too long and dragged, easily could have been four minutes shorter and got the same point across. For those who DON'T know of the infighting in the Hart family the booking was confusing. I wonder if poor Bruce even knew where he was as he was counting McMahon out in a No Holds Barred Match which was kinda dumb. It just wasn't all that good. So really I Think the big problem here was length. I think we were going to get what we got here regardless of circumstances outside the company. However I think it would have been better received had it gone only 7-8 minutes instead of 11. *1/2

World Heavyweight Championship
Chris Jericho def Edge (16 minutes)
This was an awesome match yet still didn't feel like it was as good as these guys could deliver. While the spear after the match looked awesome it felt odd coming after the match as I felt it just as easily could have been incorporated into the match. I'm glad Jericho won but he also needed to be the one standing when the smoke cleared to really put him over as the diabolical heel and create more sympathy for the Edge babyface character. It was still very very good and felt like one of those classic matches that came off more like a chess match than anything else.They had a tough fight getting the crowd involved after the near PPV momentum Killer that Was Hart McMahon but these guys pulled it off. The first 5 minutes felt like an extended feeling out process with both men looking for an opening. The second five felt like both men hitting big moves to set up for the finish. The last five felt like Edge going for the kill and Jericho trying desperately to avoid it digging deep into his bag of tricks to claw out the win.  ****

10 Diva Tag Team Match
Vickie Guerrero, Michelle McCool, Maryse, Layla, & Alicia Fox def. Beth Phoenix, Mickie James, Gail Kim, Kelly Kelly, & Eve (3 and a half minutes)
This was actually going along harmless enough as a finisher suite until Eve and Gail botched. BAD. Then Vickie delivered a horrible splash off the top followed by an equally awful pin attempt before finally getting it right and winning. This is a DUD match but the quarter star is for Vickie's Tribute to Eddie before her attempted suici... hog splash. 1/4*

WWE Championship
John Cena def. Batista (13 and a half minutes)
Having watched their Summerslam match I knew these two guys could deliver but this match went beyond even that first encounter. While it was rough around the edges with some sloppy sequences, both men were very intense and sold the hatred well. The slow first half concerned me but they picked it immensely down the stretch and had the crowd eating out of the palm of their hand. They also brilliantly played off of the SS match at the end with Cena going to the top and Batista catching him in a spinebuster but this time being unable to put him away. Cena winning was not unexpected but making Batista tap was. I wish Batista had won but I was not necessarily angered by him winning because of how great of a match these guys gave us. The action wasn't as crisp as Jericho/Edge obviously but the story telling was (dare I say it) slightly superior and the crowd was in it from the start making this match its equal. ****

Streak vs. Career Win By Pinfall or Submission only
Undertaker def. Shawn Micheals (24 minutes)
In my opinion this match is superior to last years. While their match at the 25th anniversary was longer I felt this match had more emotion, told a better story, was better paced and had a far superior ending. For 24 minutes these guys delivered one of the greatest Mania matches I have ever seen and it was more than worthy of being only the 4th non title match in history to main event a Wrestlemania. Loved how they referenced last years match with Shawn spearing Taker before his running plancha or Taker having that look on his face that said "again?!" after Shawn kicked out of the tombstone for the second year in a row. The ending was a fantastic play off of Shawn/Flair from WM 24 with Shawn wanting no sympathy and slapping Taker in defiance. Taker responded with a rare JUMPING TOMBSTONE PILEDRIVER which was epic! The post match with Taker basically saying screw character and hugging Shawn will stand up there as a true Mania moment. I hate to see Shawn go but if this match is truly his last it was one last true classic from Mr. Wrestlemania. *****

Overall this a near perfect Wrestlemania. It's amazing looking back how a few small changes could have made this the best of all time. Shaving four minutes off Bret/Vince and putting the Diva's match as a preshrink bonus would have cut the crap back and given us 10 minutes to share between the tag match and Punk Mysterio. A 7 minute pure adrenaline soaked opener and a 12 minute near classic between the SES savior and Mysterio would have immortalized this Wrestlemania and pushed it past even the loft WM 17. As it stands it's kinda like Joe Frazier and Muhammad Ali. If Ali had never existed Frazier would probably be considered the best boxer of all time. However history told a different story and like Frazier Wrestlemania 26 is on the outside looking in.

****1/2 overall. (Overall Length: 3 hours and 56 minutes)