When I heard about Claymore I was suspicious.  I'm usually suspicious of anime.  Lets face it, anime is generally either really awful, or really good.  The really good series's usually get most of the money giving them the ability to make a good series better, and the bad ones, well they generally don't.  Yes, I'm being optimistic.  I've seen many bad series get lots of money too, and they have disappointed me over and over again.

I discovered Claymore after trolling Anime forums while home from university about 8 months ago.  I decided to watch it because I had nothing better to do.  I thought it would be terrible, that the hype would lead me to some "Bleach esque" idiocy filled with filler and poorly voiced characters at best, and at worse, some B-grade movie quality story line with stiff dialogue.  I figuered I should watch it though, since it was getting rave reviews.  I wanted to know about it, but I went in expecting utter garbage.  I was pleasantly surprised!

I was hooked after the first episode.  I watched it non-stop until I had watched every single episode.  I was shocked.  The story is very unconventional.  Some reviewers argue that it's weird... well yes, but the best anime's are a little weird, especially when you have to describe them to someone.  I take it as a BLESSING that it's weird!  Its DIFFERENT!  Thank God.  There is an underdog hero.  Yes, there is NO super-powered for no reason teenage boy who is all angsty and has been some how against his will thrown into a plot to save the world, with the help of buxom anime babes and laughable joking less attractive male side kicks, while the main character broods and nurtures his effeminate looks all the while some how coming out on top of every ill-matched battle that faces him.  I am SICK of watching that story over and over, and Claymore is a pleasing departure from the whole cliche anime story line.  While I have read on forums that the manga is leaps and bounds above the anime, (well, that's sort of to be expected, right?) I have heard the manga readers claim that it is a very good start to the series, and they expect more from FUNimation.  Manga readers are happy with the series?  Seriously? that's amazing.

I watched Claymore with no idea what it was about, that made everything very exciting and new.  I strongly suggest doing this, I found it made it even more exciting.  It's a very unique, very exciting, very unexpected anime.  There are so many moments you wont see coming, really, it breaks tons of expectations and cliches.  It's really a very amazing series, I can't possibly explain it better, I do not want to give you a summary of the plot, (I hate spoliers) and I don't want to tell you about specifics too much (see above reason) but I do want to help sell you.  So I'll say this... I've had this on pre-order for 6 months, and I dont regret it at all!  This series is really great, something fresh and new, daring and unique, and I love it for that.

Cons, well I would say it's not as complete as I would like, but I regret to put that as a con, as I've heard buzz (which I dont know whether or not is true) that the anime will have a second season, because of the large volume of story in the manga.  People have said that the anime covers the beginning of the manga.  I haven't read the manga myself, as I said before, but if this is the case, then I can only be excited.  It's a great series, and I can only see it getting better.  It's worth the money, its beautifully animated, great voice acting (at least in the original Japanese) and a very unique and interesting story.