I loved this movie when it came out.  Probably saw it 5 times in the theater (I think I was 12).  Great fun if you don't try to over analyze it.  I won't necessarily talk about the movie here, but my rating reflects my love of the film.

Just got the blu-ray yesterday and watched it last night on a 1080p 65" panasonic plasma.  Over all, I think the transfer isn't bad. There are some grainy transfers (the opening scene starts this way, and I was thinking---oh this isn't going to be good). But some of the scenes are crystal clear with great definition. Be ready to see all the flaws that you wouldn't see in the DVD, given the mix of stop motion animation, mattes, etc. With the HD transfer, you'll see blue lines around mattes and background film.  The most obvious thing to me was the burning "body" in the Joppa square is very clearly made of wood; it's almost painful to see how bad the prop is when shown in high def. You'll also notice how obvious the witches' prosthetic chins and eye covers are; again the price of having a more defined product.  I actually enjoyed seeing how all the different techniques blended together to make the film, but it could be distracting to others.

I'd say my biggest distraction with it all (and this showed in the theater and DVD) is how many "night" scenes were actually done during the day with a filter.  I think it's a bit more obvious with the high def, but if you've seen this movie in any format you've seen it.

The sound is decent; I thought it was a bit low on the volume; I had to turn it up a little louder than I normally do for movies.

There are just a few extras included on the Blu-Ray:  an interview with Harryhausen, and a Myth and Monsters Gallery.  Also included is a promo for the 2010 Clash of the Titans.  Not a lot of set up functions, but there are the most subtitle options I've ever seen on a movie (about 20).  The book has some pictures in it, and a ticket for $7.50 to see the 2010 movie.

I had a copy of the DVD at one point, and remember the transfer being terrible.  This is much better, so for fans of the movie, I think it's definitely worth the upgrade.