I liked the juxtaposition of violence and humor in Fuller's take on the madness of WWII in this longer more coherent and ballsier version. Kelly Ward's hemorrhoid ladened Johnson character was strangely funny, while Mark Hamill's cowardly everyman makes us see what we might be in war as a soldier.

The close-up of the wristwatch on a dead soldier in a pool of bloody water is as important a shot in film as the woman's glasses being broken on the Odessa Steps in Battleship Potemkin. Both are scenes of violent vulnerability of a human life. Fuller connects with his audience the way Eisenstein did. Sometimes with symbolic shots, as in the scene where we see a German soldier behind the arms of the Crusifix then changing to close ups of soldiers eyes peeking out of a foxhole, the dread and confusion in their eyes so evident. We see this as well when the tanks roll over the heads of soldiers barely missing them in more trenches of fear. Chaos abounds in war and Fuller knew that the only good thing to come out of war was it's survivors.

This "new" version has a lot more sexual content in it. The version I originally saw left out the scene where Lee Marvin's macho Sarge tells a gay German doctor after he kisses him that "I can understand that you're horny...but your breath!!" to paraphrase him. Also there is an amusing scene with Robert Carradine's character as a horny soldier with a hard on after hearing a German female radio host trying to convince the American's to give up in an ultra-sexy voice. There is a scene where the men use condoms to keep there "real" weapons from getting wet as well.

I thoroughly enjoyed and at times was transfixed by The Big Red One. Scenes like the one of two men fighting in a concentration camp oven and the scene where Sarge cannot save a young boys life with food and drink because it is too late for that, are just stunning. One patch (The Big Red One) worn on one soldiers sleeve is a heart worn on an entire audience's sleeve by the time this movie is over. TBRO is a hellacious yet wonderful depiction of war and its violence, confusion, sadness, absurdity, loss, victory and ultimately...survival.

 A very good film worth reliving...