The foremost thing to say is that this film moved me. As one previous reviewer noted, the acid test of Boheme is if one tears up as Mimi dies; I did, helped by the mainly traditional production approach and compelling singing and acting.

The film is not without a few quirks and debits, though one needs to be trying hard, I feel, to be as outraged as have been some previous reviewers. Netrebko seems to specialize in soft, feminine acting and lushly smooth singing; while this can be a bit marshmallowy, here, it creates an appealingly vulnerable character driven by her own loneliness. I cannot agree with those who were shocked by the idea that Mimi would plan ahead to cross paths with Rodolfo or that the two would make love shortly after falling in love; when considering their co-seduction within the context of Puccini's passionate music, how can these interpretations have failed to come to mind as possibilities? (And those who feel Mimi can never be the least bit calculating should check out Georghiu's Act I. A Mimi who is wholly innocent throughout the opera risks raising hapless to the point of saccharine, even for an operatic soprano role.)

Yes, some strain is discernible in Villazon's top, particularly at the finish of his most impassioned phrases. Still, his voice is able to carry his acting, which is no mean feat. Quibbling with the size of his generously sketched Rodolfo misses the significant benefits of his characterization, which paints the poet as idealistic, passionate, and temperamental--qualities which explain, and thus defuse, his later ill-treatment of Mimi. As an audience member, falling for Rodolfo as a tender-hearted romantic male lead in Act I can lead to unease in Act III when Mimi portrays him as angry, accusing, and jealous. Villazon brings to the role an edgy, youthful volatility I hadn't realized I'd been missing until I saw it in his depiction. His Rodolfo is compelling and taking.

This movie is, first, about the two principals, and, secondarily, about the production. (There is no thirdly here.) For the latter, one must consider the pros and cons of choosing to film an opera away from a stage setting. Lip-syncing to avoid an overly graphic display of tonsils is a traditional part of the movie-format choice, one that requires no more willing suspension of disbelief than do the peculiarities endemic to a live-staged operatic production. And the tight close-ups, besides being fashionable in current DVD production (see the last few years' camera work on the Met HD productions) allow some fascinating subtlety of expression, mainly on Netrebko's face but also on Villazon's. If some of the shots were other than straight-ahead--well, this is a movie. Some blips could have been avoided: The wrong-headed choice to put Mimi's apartment below rather than above the Bohemians' crosses the text jarringly without yielding any more benefit than allowing Netrebko to display her face pointing attractively upward rather than downward. And I did struggle with the thoroughly indoor setting (too far from the other action) and opulence (too far from the Bohemians' usual milieu) of the Cafe Momus.

In short, without being perfect, this film was terrifically enjoyable, largely due to the charismatic, opposites-attract pairing of Villazon and Netrebko and a production that enhanced their characterizations in some respects and got out of their way in the remaining. I trembled on the edge of giving it five stars.