The Killing Fields depict the brutal atrocities of the Khmer Rouge during their attempt to bring social equality to all Cambodians. Focusing on the real life relationship between a New York Times reporter, Sydney Schanberg, and his personal Cambodian aid, Dith Pran, the movie grants a vivid glimpse into the bleak history of one of the world's most recent genocides, where personal freedom was sacrificed in favor of greater societal order in hopes of achieving above all else, equality. Before the Khmer Rouge came to power, Cambodia was a country with cities and countryside villages-educated citizens knew foreign languages and were knowledgeable in other subjects normally taught in global educational systems. However, as three specific scenes in The Killing Fields chillingly portray, the implementation of the Khmer Rouge's policies had drastic consequences to any sense of stability and normalcy in the country as the only way of life known by the Cambodians changed rapidly.
 Confusion and fear controlled the citizens of Phnom Penh, the capital of Cambodia, as the Khmer Rouge declared that the city of three million residents must be evacuated. Bloody confrontations in battle had already claimed the lives of numerous people as the communist marched towards the metropolis in their push to take the political stronghold. The movie shows the new military power, comprised of young soldiers in their teen-age years, already beginning their campaign to equalize the social status of all by rendering the difference between a city dweller and a country farmer impotent. In the particular scene when the cameras pan along the streets of Phnom Penh and show the hordes of people fleeing the city, images are attached to the effort to turn back the unwavering clock of societal progression. The movie shows Dith Pran walking away teary eyed from the American Embassy, where he tried to escape with Sydney and other foreigners to safety. When his fake passport was caught by and official moments before he was expelled from the embassy, Dith Pran's face took on a new look of resigned acceptance of an unavoidable fate. This haunting image could be considered the perfect symbol for the Khmer Rouge's campaign to bring equality to Cambodia. No longer was Dith Pran an individual, he was simply one of the masses that had all been reduced to a simple emotion, fear.
 The second scene that exemplifies the implications of the Khmer Rouge's emphasis on equality relates to the educational ideals that the party held. Dith Pran is in a communal village, where all of the residents work together in their units and share equal status amongst each other. At one point, Pran is around some of the party leaders when they are speaking French, which he understood, because of his education. However, Pran could not indicate any comprehension of the language, for that would show that he was different than the rest of his peers in the commune. The movie effectively conveyed the powerful message with this scene that under the Khmer Rouge any difference in education meant an inequality between two people. Of course, as The Killing Fields showed, this inequality would be dealt with severely through a forced re-education or execution. Therefore in Dith Pran's case, he simply chose not to expose himself and his abilities, which would warrant unpleasant repercussions.
 Finally, validating the movie's namesake, the third scene to vividly portray the Khmer Rouge's prioritization of equality dealt with the mass graves in Cambodia, known as the "Killing Fields." Dith Pran escaped from the communal village and tried to flee to safety near the end of the movie. During his harrowing break from the iron grip of the Khmer Rouge, Dith stumbled upon a field littered with the remains of human skeletons. Everyone in the communal village where Dith lived wondered what became of the people that were escorted away by the guards and never to return. At this site, amongst the rotting flesh and decaying bones, Dith found his answer to the question. Death, the great equalizer, had come to Cambodia at the blood curdling beckon of the Khmer Rouge.
 These three scenes as well as the rest of The Killing Fields clearly demonstrate Cambodia's strive for equality under the communist party, as the citizens were required to give up personal freedoms under pressure of a greater social order. By using death as the great equalizer, the Khmer Rouge was able to bring their dreams closer to a reality. Ironically, the priority of equality that was supposed to help the most people killed the most people and Cambodia lost nearly twenty five percent of its population as depicted in The Killing Fields.