I don't understand how anyone can say this movie was bad.  I read many reviews before going to see this with my six-year old daughter (who loved it and agrees that it is better), and I was prepared to possibly prefer the first one. WRONG! I absoloutely LOVED this movie from beginning to end. Johnny Depp did a fantastic job as the eccentric Willy Wonka, and he had the funniest lines."Good Morning Starshine. The earth says "Hello." Gene Wilder played it more straight and in comparison was BORING! OK, so maybe Depp's was a bit effemanate and odd(Which is the only two reasons I can see that he is being compared to Michael Jackson.) Other than that, the comparison is ridiculous. I have to agree with other reviewers that it was obvious that he didn't like children which everyone knows is not the case with Jackson. It's not like he opened his factory every day for children to play in. Even when he did open it, it was out of a particular need (to find an heir) and he was very specific about what they were allowed to touch. One thing that always bothered me about the original is that it was never explained why Wonka was so odd and hostile towards the children (other than the fact that most of them were brats). So the insights into his childhood and young adulthood adventures through the flashbacks were one of the main things I liked about this version. It also made sense that he had that strange gray pallor to his skin because he was such a recluse and didn't get any sun (another reason for the Jackson thing perhaps?) Not that Jackson doesn't get out, but he is rather pale. (Yes, I know about the skin bleaching). I do wish they hadn't put so much make-up on him. (Depp, I mean.) He didn't talk like Michael Jackson at all. He sounded like Carol Channing a lot, though. I thought this was odd, but perhaps intentional. Maybe he just didn't know how to talk to children, so he put on this false high-pitch voice. It was especially noticable when he was nervous.(That nervous laugh). That was also the reason that he used cue cards. C'mon people, he lived  with tiny orange men for 20 years. I think anyone would be a little odd under those circumstances. And look at his childhood. His father, in particular. I won't say anything more for those that haven't seen it. See it, and you'll know what I mean. No wonder he had trouble with the word "parent."
 I also have to add, because nobody else mentioned it(I don't think.) that there is no Slugworth in this movie. That may dissapoint some people, but he was not neccesary to the plot. The children were rotten and greedy already (except for Charlie of course) and didn't need someone to egg them on to be even more so. In my opinion, this character was used for the original movie so that it was be more acceptable for Charlie and Grandpa Joe to do something naughty (fizzy lifting drinks) and then redeem himself later by being the only one to give up his everlasting gobstopper.Slugworth is mentioned in the book only as one of the candy-maker spies who stole his ideas. Also, I thought that Wonka was much too harsh on Charlie when he shouted at him and Grandpa Joe like he did. Obviously, he was upset that the day was wasted, but children might not realize that and think he was just being mean. And how did he know what Charlie and Grandpa did? He was in the other room showing the kids the geese that laid chocolate eggs. That made him mysterious I guess, but I think too confusing for kids. Slugworth worked for Wonka anyway, which also doesn't make sense. Why did he trust him? He was free to leave the factory. How did he know that he wouldn't try to steal his ideas? Depp's Wonka was a lot more cautious and followed Dahl's wonderful book almost exactly. Even his clothes and body type look like the illustrations. I also have to add, that I didn't miss the corny singing as much as I thought I would after reading it was not a musical. The oompa loompa's and their songs were far better than the first movie. The words for most of the songs were taken from the book(read it, and see) and were a lot funnier and less tedious  than that annoying "OOMPA LOOMPA DOOPITY DO". It was just the same tune over and over. While this version, each song was unique and I found myself looking forward to each new song and dance number. They were incredibly entertaining. This movie, with today's technology, really brought Dahl's imagination to life and did the story more justice. If you only know the story from this movie and/or the original version, do yourself and your kids a favor and READ THE BOOK. Then, see both movies and then you'll understand why this new version is the best. You may also want to read "Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator". A sequel book that would make a great sequel movie. With Depp and the rest of the cast of course. Great casting, by the way. Oh, one more thing I have to add: Wonka didn't like children with one exception of course:Charlie. In the end Charlie was the only one he trusted and they became best friends. I think Charlie made a real difference in his life and brought him out of his shell. So this movie has a lot to say (if you are paying attention) about kindness and not being too quick to judge others. Charlie was the only one who cared enough about Wonka to ask him about his life and he asked intelligent questions. He is an excellent role model for children. Freddie Highmore should be proud. He really brought the character to life. In short, my family and I were drawn into this movie from the beginning and were never bored. I never saw my daughter sit so still in a theater before. I think that says a lot.