I brought the first season of JAG , and watched the Pilot Episode for the first time. The first season helped me "catch up" on RADM Chegwidden, the CAG, and then-LTJG Kaitlin Pike.  There's some background on how then-Lt. Rabb came to JAG. I knew Rabb made LCDR during the first season, but the script never explained if he was "cured" of night blindness (although he got his wings back guiding the CAG home safe), and how he secured permission to apply and attend law school after he was grounded.

I didn't start watching JAG until it appeared on the USA network circa 2001.  One thing I liked is it was a "clean show", with not alot of sex, violence, drug use, terrible jokes, gay people, like some of today's TV shows.  I thought the main characters were good people who believed in what they were doing, and did it well.  For the most part, Harm, Mac, A.J., Bud, Sturgis, were positive influences on Television.  I thank Bellisario for writing a quality show, and maybe others in Hollywood will take note.  Today, the only shows I watch regularly (other than JAG re-runs) are "Cold Case" and "CSI: NY". I've seen "NCIS", but it hasn't held my interest level very much.

While I'm glad I purchased the first season on DVD, my favorite seasons of JAG are the later ones (4th through 8th), where the characters were more developed. While I liked LCDR Rabb (later CDR), I felt LT. Roberts and CDR Turner were more believable to the US Navy.  I enjoyed watching LT Bud Roberts develop, especially with his beloved wife LTJG Sims, and I liked CDR Sturgis Turner (I wanted him to make CAPT before Rabb, but that didn't happen).  I also liked Gunnery SGT Victor Galindez, and Petty Officer Tiner.  I would of enjoyed having RADM Chegwidden for a "boss", and I felt he had a good grasp of a Navy Officer, as did LT Roberts and CDR Turner.  I'm sorry that John M. Jackson was never nominated for an Emmy Award.

I liked how Bellisario would invite people back, and the story lines would continue with those from a previous episodes.  Bellisario has a "loyal" following with several JAG actors (such as W.K. Stratton, Larry Manetti, and Jeff MacKay from Black Sheep Squadron), and he frequently had judges who would make recurring appearances, such as Corbin Bernsen and Jennifer Savidge.  Few people remember Savidge on St. Elsewhere, and Bernsen is probably the only actor from LA Law (besides Alan Rachins), who has been able to get another series.  Watching reruns, I found that Sean Murray from NCIS played Danny Walden, and LCDR Roberts was an ensign in the pilot episode. Bellisario brought Patrict Laborteaux back to the show when CBS picked it up after NBC cancelled it. Few people remember Laborteaux as a child star on Little House on the Prairie where he and his brother Matthew had recurring parts as friends of Laura Ingalls.

As for the female leads, I need to go back and see the episodes that had Jordan Parker's character in them (I missed those), and I liked Catherine Bell (she's very smart and pretty-I'm not dead), although Karri Turner's character of Harriet Sims was a little more believable. I hope Zoe McLellan gets some more acting roles, and I did like her part as Petty Officer Jennifer Coates. Few people know that the actress who played LT Singer (Nanci Chambers) is David James Elliot's real-life wife (they have been married for 14 years and have 2 or 3 children), and Andrea Parker was supposed to be the female lead in the first season, but NBC execs didn't want her in the role. However, Ms. Parker did get a good part in the Pretender, and had a sitcom on ABC.  She returned to JAG sometimes, as did Randy Vasquez, who got a part on Bellisario's First Monday.

Another thing I liked about Bellisario was he seemed to cast good female leads for Adm. Chegwidden.  Hollywood often thinks women over 35 are not "beautiful."  I thank Bellisario for casting Cynthia Sikes as Dr. Walden (who I had a crush on in high school when she was on St. Elsewhere), and later casting Isabell Hoffman (remember Dear John?).  Both of them, especially Cynthia Sikes, fit in well with John M. Jackson.  I remember Sikes leaving St. Elsewhere because the writers were going to make her character into a lesbian, and that should be a tribute to the values Ms. Sikes holds.

If I would skip any season of JAG, it would be the 9th season - I didn't really get into all the story lines with Webb and the traveling around the globe, especially when Webb was dating Lt. Col. McKenzie (Mac). I also preferred Paul Collins as the SECNAV over Dean Stockwell, even though Stockwell was on Bellisario's Quantum Leap.  I think JAG should of "wrapped up" earlier, especially since some of the characters were leaving. Even though I enjoyed Adm. Chegwidden's last official duty promoting LT Roberts to LCDR, and liked David Andrews portrayal of MGEN Criswell, JAG probably should of quit around the 8th season.

Hollywood, JAG was a quality TV show, and take a note from Donald Bellisario that a "clean show" will be watched by many.