One uneventful Friday night while curled under a blanket I watched the musical on DVD entitled Sweeney Todd:  The Demon Barber of Fleet Street.  Not expecting much from a movie makes for no disappointments.  I slipped the disc in with no certain hope.  What a surprise when the final credits floated off the screen.  I found myself left with the gruesome reality of what the hunger for vengeance can do to an innocent victim.  Sweeney Todd, a barbaric barber who seeks to settle the score for the robbery of his perfect life, is masterfully played by Johnny Depp.  His devilish companion, Mrs. Lovett, was played by Helena Bonham Carter.  She selfishly keeps Todd blinded to everything but his need for reckoning.  She does this by feeding Todd's ravenous anger with exposed necks for his barber's blades to devour.  The blades themselves could have won an Oscar for best supporting actor.  They were brought to life in the hands of Todd and the lighting of the movie.  They glistened in a similar manner to that of an evil eye just before a malevolent plot unfolds.

Todd and Lovett sing charming tunes in a gentle British accent while cutting the throats of whoever may wander their direction.  Although it seems contradicting, it is a perfect melody of emotions which helps the viewer see past the gore and find the relevance of their corruption.  As if this was not enough, the duo further defiles the clueless people traveling Fleet Street by secretly serving their victims up in a pie.

Although Todd is sinister and brutal some may say it was not without cause.  He had the life that anyone would wish for:  a lovely wife, a beautiful baby girl, and a successful barber shop.  Unfortunately his idyllic life was coveted and stolen by the dark-hearted judge played by Alan Rickman.  The judge exiled Todd for fifteen years while he defiled his wife and claimed his daughter for himself.  When Todd returns to London he is a changed man.  He has returned angry and ready to make everyone pay for what he has lost.

Tim Burton brought his masterful creative eye to this project as the film's director.  Todd begins the movie on a ship headed for London.  He sings, "There's a hole in the world like a great black pit and the vermin of the world inhabit it."  Once he hits the shore you see Todd has arrived in that pit.  The mood is perfectly captured in the use of hues and the angles chosen for the camera lens.  Watching the smoke course from the chimney the viewers are left feeling cold and dirty.  You can hear the dampness looming when the unaware city dwellers walk through the residue of rain resting on the cobble stone streets.  The only use of vivid shades is when Lovett attempts to paint the possibility of a happy union between her and Todd.  The contrast in color boldly communicates this future is impossible.

If you can tolerate the bloody violence this is a worthwhile movie to see.  Attempt to see beyond the animated slashing and ask yourself, "Who benefits from a life driven by revenge?"  Retribution can serve a purpose and there are times when bad things happen to good people.  The message is clear; don't be blinded by the need for reckoning or you may become the villain, driving away any chance for peace and you will lose sight of who you love most.