WARNING: CONTAINS SPOILERS

Mystic River is a misunderstood masterpiece.

Several critics hailed the film as a modern Greek tragedy, but at its core it is really an opposite kind of tragedy. The protagonists of the ancient tragedies were punished by the gods for the sin of hubris. Overweening pride and arrogance caused the heroes' downfall. The characters in Mystic River, however, especially Dave, are punished (and punished repeatedly) for being weak and for lacking self-confidence. Worse, the punishment is passed down to the next generation of innocent children, through no fault of their own.  Witness Dave's son, portrayed as a timid little stripling, exactly the type of child likely to get picked on by everyone and perhaps even molested by pedophiles: He is left fatherless at the end, to be raised entirely by the weak, anxious, stupid Celeste, the only woman the ruinously victimized Dave could find for a mate. You just know that things are going to turn out badly for this child. His only sin was having Dave and Celeste for a father and mother.

Mystic River is more accurately described as a Darwinian tragedy, much bleaker and far more pitiless than anything dreamed up by Aeschylus or Sophocles.

If critics found any fault at all, it was with the coda that contained Laura Linney's out-of-nowhere Lady Macbeth speech and the depressing little neighborhood parade. Most critics thought the film should have ended with the scene of Jimmy and Sean standing in the street, recalling their friend's abduction twenty-five years earlier. This ending would have suggested that perhaps they had sinned by not protecting their weaker friend. But no. Eastwood's ending reinforces the film's pitiless Darwinian ethos: Jimmy's feelings of guilt over murdering his innocent friend Dave are dispelled by his wife's passionate sociobiological sermon, finally freeing him to become the dominant alpha male of the tribe; Celeste is left wandering lost and forlorn among the tribal gathering, shunned for being weak and stupid; and then these contemptible figures recede into ant-like insignificance as the camera moves away from this cruel, squalid spectacle and sinks into the river, a mystic river that flows on forever, utterly heedless of human suffering. Fade to black.

Such a cheery little movie. I'm surprised it did so well in tragedy-resistant America.