Mad General Jack D. Ripper of the Strategic Air Command, concerned about the purity of his "precious bodily fluids," launches a pre-emptive attack on the Soviet Union with his bomber wing, based at Burpelson Air Force Base. His executive officer Captain Mandrake, President Merkin Muffly, and the Premier of the Soviet Union Kissoff, all try to rein in the bomber team currently headed toward its target in Russia, before the dreaded Doomsday Device is set off, ending all life on Earth. But why is ex-Nazi scientist Dr. Strangelove smiling so much?
One could go on about the tight plotting and even belivability of the situation depicted in the film (the opening disclaimer notwithstanding) and the unforgettable images of Major Kong riding the bomb, but the real star of the show in Dr. Strangelove, is, without a doubt, Peter Sellers. He plays three roles in this film: Captain Mandrake, the President, and Dr. Strangelove, and in each of those three largely improvised performances he comes up with unforgettably hilarious lines. (The comedic monologue as he speaks to the Premier is especially funny--never have multiple apologies been so true!) The obvious phallic references throughout are both funny and satirical; Kubrick's slams on the military mindset and the military-industrial-sexual complex were dead on for that time period, when the world was regularly on the brink of destruction. Somehow, brilliantly, he found a way to make people laugh at the sheer horror and absurdity of the situation. Though this is a laugh-out-loud comedy, the subtext of the film is very dark indeed, suggesting that given the chance, human beings will destroy themselves and take the whole world with them for the sake of ideology and "purity of essence." This film also marks the beginning of Kubrick's idiosyncratic use of music; the world's destruction is set to the score of Vera Lynn's "We'll Meet Again," and the lush, serene string music that accompanies the beginning of the film is incredibly ironic . . . . Though we are not quite as afraid of nuclear annihilation by the Russians now, the film remains incredibly watchable and compelling, and an eternal indictment against the gungho/hawkish element that seems to be itching to attack anyone, at any opportunity, regardless of the consequences.