It's difficult to review something like this without spouting out the boring and cliche "OH MAN I'VE SEEN IT ALL AND YOU CAN'T SHOCK ME, THIS WASN'T GORY"

But in one respect, it's true: I've seen quite a lot in my 23 years, in film and real life, so to disturb me, to make me cringe you have to really search for the right nerve to strike because I don't think mine are like everyone else's; the one's who think Jigsaw is so evil, and blah blah blah.

This wasn't not a gory film, in it's context; it's a mainstream horror movie, so showing a guy get his johnson snipped off is a bit more than the people who flocked to Return of the King are used to seeing.

Nothing in this film made me cringe though, I've seen worse as far as genital amputation's go (Germany's Cannibal, which is basically disposable trash.) and just like the first in the series the use of music was really, REALLY, obnoxious, and those are one of my nails-on-the-chalkboard cinematic pet peeves; exploitation of the soundtrack to build suspense.  The atmosphere was decent, the ambiance almost spot on, but then that stupid Michael Bay-ish music comes in and kills it.

Roth seems to want to make true horror films, ones that don't entertain but scar most people, but he's got to realize in order to do something like that, more or less, you have to work away from the system, away from caring about if you get an R or NC-17; but, alas, he can't seem to come to terms with that.  All the films of the past that have really kicked people where it counts have been independent; Last House on the Left & Cannibal Holocaust immediately come to mind, and more recently stuff like Murder-Set-Pieces.

I tried, tried, to enjoy this in, again, the context where it finds itself, but I just couldn't.  I understand, people are evil, and no matter how much they seem to be caring and sweet and like an extra out of High School Musical they can turn into vicious blood thirsty beasts, unworthy of sympathy or compassion; this isn't Straw Dogs, though, and the message falls flat.

Thus far Roth is 0-3 in my book, so chances are any further efforts will simply be passed over.

At least the Bathory thing was at least semi-cool, but not by much.

2007 is apparently the "year of don't bother going to the theater" I sincerely hope Eastern Promises, There Will be Blood & No Country for Old Men don't follow this chain.