I was very pleasantly surprised to find that Criterion's smashing release of this classic, the first original "Godzilla" movie, came in a box specially tailored for film nerds and geeks of all ages. Open up the cover with its exquisite print painting of the colossus itself, its huge tail dangling in the path of fire and destruction it leaves behind, and flip it open to reveal a cut-out pop-up of Godzilla. It reminds me of a postcard I once received as a child, which upon opening delivers a pop-out madness of huge dinosaurs and octopi destroying skyscrapers and crossroads. There is something inherently fascinating and thrilling about huge prehistoric and other-worldly monsters coming into our safe urban environments and creating chaos. And this is the movie that gave new life to a film genre that had been fleetingly touched upon by the appearance of King Kong some twenty years earlier.
Upon watching this gem of classic suspense movies, which now has over half a century under its waist, I was struck by how timeless it seems. Even though the hand-made special effects and action is no longer awesome or frightening in any way, the drama is rather touching. The film, despite its insufficient technical qualities, feels very earnest, and it is rather moving sometimes. The sentiments expressed are very Japanese, but also very human, and considering the time when it was made (so soon, no more than a decade and a half after Hiroshima) its poignancy is not lost upon us all the way to today. When you discover that an actual fishing crew really came upon an H-bomb testing in the sea outside of Japan and that they almost died from radiation poisoning, and that this inspired the making of the film, it is perhaps not very surprising to perceive the film as very earnest and realistic despite its fantastical metaphorical nature.
For a metaphor it is, the magnificent terrorist monster Godzilla, a metaphor of the destruction we humankind often inflict upon other people and ourselves. Warfare, atomic bombs, mass terror and mass destruction, all too common subjects back in post-Second World War society. Simply the roots to all science fiction and modern horror where huge monsters created through science spread chaos, the examples are endless. And even though Hiroshima and WWII are soon to be remnants of modern history, no more than mere souvenirs of the past, the genre and subgenres persist and will live on, because as long as there is disaster and conflict in the world, the themes will be sorely needed. We will probably need to have all our fears materialized in a large monster which can be defeated by heroes and eventually is, just for some time longer to come.
As I said before, this old movie may look corny today, with its plastic models of Tokyo and armies being crushed by a fake monster lizard in an obvious suit and the intercut sections of people running away from a rubber doll, "Godzilla" from 1954 still has something to offer that modern adventures with all the eye-popping effects they provide can still lack. That is the ingenuity, the craftsmanship, the storytelling. And the depth that this seemingly simple-minded matin&eacute; actually possesses. For although Godzilla is a rather silly, rather cute, very obviously home-made puppet, the people's tragedy is all too real, and its acted and produced in such a fashion as to almost make one feel as if this is a documentary about the hardships endured by the Japanese people of the 1940s and '50s that is sporadically interspersed with some anti-nuclear propaganda as symbolized by Godzilla itself.
I say never mind the special effects, never mind the visuals or anything else about the film that shows its age. Just sit back and enjoy the purity of this chaos as therapeutic
fantasy for trauma victims and anyone who needs the kick that comes out of seeing fleeing masses trampled underfoot, a kick we all need at times, surely? Thanks to Criterion for giving me this opportunity for some harmless indulgence and allowing me to find this thrill from the most unexpected place, a film I would probably never have seen otherwise.