Hi,
Most important issue is the show is true Sci-Fi, not just special effects like Star Trek 2009.  Storyline is fantastic (no giant plot holes like why Spock wouldn't go back in time to save his people from genocide, how cadet Kirk can jump to captain military status, how Nero can have 30 yrs. of advanced technology but refuse to save his world and instead seek revenge - hopefully the next movie will have Spock going back in time to correct the timeline now that new fans are on board so old fans don't refuse to stay on board.  Sorry - I digress)

It's true that box is distasteful and plastic casing should have been present, but the show is great.

Below are "pearls" that many will find helpful to maximally enjoy the fantastic BG series.

One star lost b/c TEN webisodes omitted from Face of the Enemy as poor decision akin to rotten cardboard boxing.

If the story was not so great, would have deleted another star for lack of subtitles.  Truly deserves only 3 stars, but story just too great to not give 4 stars.

-Season 2, disc 2 ends with "Pegasus" - don't watch it like I did, b/c disc 3 starts with the extended unaired version.
-Season 3, disc 2 ends with "Unfinished Business" - don't watch it b/c disc 3 opens with the extended unaired version.
-Season 4, disc 3, the last one - the menu shows 3 'episodes' - 1st- Daybreak part 1, 2nd-Daybreak parts 2&3, and 3rd-Daybreak extended unaired. Maybe I'm a dolt, but it appeared to me the extended unaired covered parts 2&3 - so I watched the broadcast version of part 1, then chose the extended unaired option for 2&3 - WRONG. That option covers ALL 3 PARTS. So I watched the first part all over again, minutes after just completing it.
-Hidden Deleted Scenes (SD, Season 3, Disc 5) &iexcl;V On the 'Colonial Military Assignment Quiz' (fifth disc of Season 3) a hidden deleted scene can be viewed upon completion of the test. It looks like there are seven scenes in total.
- if you hit "play all" It plays the "aired" version, then the "extended" version of the same episode.
- Movies Caprica and the Plan are not included.
- Movie Razor is included.
- Does not have Face of the Enemy webisodes.
The 25 DVDs in this set are the same DVDs available in the 6 season sets (1, 2.0, 2.5, 3, 4.0, 4.5).

- NO SUBTITLES FOR $250 set!!!  How incredibly rude!
- Crummy case can be fixed by buying ultra-slim CD cases for $3 or same price for one padded slide-in CD sheath wallet.
The Supplements: Digging Into the Good Stuff
If you aren't already sitting down as you're reading this review, now would be a good time to pull up a chair. Universal has included supplements on each of the twenty discs in this collection, so needless to say -- we're going to be here for awhile.
Battlestar Galactica: The Miniseries:
Just for the sake of organization, I'm giving the miniseries its own little section here. However, all of this content is technically part of Season 1 on the first disc.
h Audio Commentary: Miniseries Parts 1 & 2 &iexcl;V Both parts of the miniseries have an audio commentary with director Michael Rymer as well as executive producers David Eick and Ronald D. Moore.
h From Miniseries to Series (SD, 9 minutes) &iexcl;V This featurette covers the evolution of the re-imagined 'Battlestar Galactica' from a televised miniseries to a full blown series.
h Change is Good, Now They're Babes (SD, 8 minutes) &iexcl;V A short little piece covering Boomer's and Starbuck's sex change and a look at some of the other major female characters in the series.
h The Cylon Centurion (SD, 6 minutes) &iexcl;V The toasters get their own 15 minutes (OK, make that 6 minutes) in the spotlight here.
h Future/Past Technology (SD, 8 minutes) &iexcl;V A glimpse at the different kinds of technology seen in 'Battlestar Galactica' over the years.
h The Doctor is Out (Of His Mind) (SD, 8 minutes) &iexcl;V All about the good Dr. Baltar played by James Callis.
h Production (SD, 9 minutes) &iexcl;V A brief production vignette covering filming in high-definition, the sets, make-up, and more.
h Visual Effects (SD, 9 minutes) &iexcl;V Covers the various ships, jump effects, and usage of green screen technology bringing the intense world of 'Battlestar Galactica' to life.
h Epilogue (SD, 8 minutes) &iexcl;V The final featurette is a general overview of the show.
h Sketches and Art (SD, 4 minutes) &iexcl;V A concept art, paintings, and costume photo slideshow set to music from the show.
h Deleted Scenes (SD, 21 minutes) &iexcl;V An assortment of deleted scenes from the miniseries.
Battlestar Galactica: Season One:
h Audio Commentary: '33' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary for the pilot episode of the series with Michael Rymer, David Eick and Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Bastille Day' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with David Eick and Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Act of Contrition' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with David Eick and Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'You Can't Go Home Again' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with David Eick and Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Tigh Me Up - Tigh Me Down' (Disc 3) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'The Hand of God' (Disc 3) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Colonial Day' (Disc 4) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Kobol's Last Gleaming: Parts 1 & 2' (Disc 4) &iexcl;V The two-part season finale has a commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 2, 18 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episodes '33,' 'Water,' 'Act of Contrition,' and 'You Can't Go Home Again.'
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 3, 12 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episodes 'Litmus,' 'Six Degrees of Separation,' 'Flesh and Bone,' 'Tigh Me Up - Tigh Me Down,' and Hand of God.'
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 4, 18 minutes) &iexcl;V The last disc of this season has deleted scenes from episodes 'Colonial Day,' and 'Kobol's Last Gleaming: Parts 1 & 2.'
Battlestar Galactica: Season Two:
h Audio Commentary: 'Scattered' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Valley of Darkness' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Resistance' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'The Farm' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Home: Parts 1 & 2' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Final Cut' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Pegasus: Extended Edition' (Disc 3) &iexcl;V Commentary with David Eick and Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Resurrection Ship: Parts 1 & 2' (Disc 3) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Epiphanies' (Disc 3) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'Black Market' (Disc 4) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'Scar' (Disc 4) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'Sacrifice' (Disc 4) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'The Captain's Hand' (Disc 4) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Downloaded' (Disc 5) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Lay Down Your Burdens: Parts 1 & 2' (Disc 5) &iexcl;V Commentary for the two-part season finale with Ronald D. Moore.
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 1, 42 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episodes 'Scattered,' 'Valley of Darkness,' 'Fragged,' 'Resistance,' and 'The Farm.'
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 3, 9 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episode 'Resurrection Ship: Part 1.'
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 4, 30 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episodes 'Black Market,' 'Scar,' 'Sacrifice,' and 'The Captain's Hand.'
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 5, 30 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episodes 'Downloaded,' and 'Lay Down Your Burdens: Parts 1 & 2.'
h Extended Episode: 'Pegasus' (HD, Disc 3) &iexcl;V The unrated extended version of this episode.
h Sizzle Reel (SD, Disc 5, 4 minutes) &iexcl;V Basically just a preview for the first episode of the second half of Season 2.
h R&D Logos (SD, Disc 5, 3 minutes) &iexcl;V A collection of all of the weird Ronald vs. David death scenes that appear after each episode.
h David Eick Video Blogs (SD, Disc 5, 22 minutes) &iexcl;V A collection of video blogs: 'Episode 205: Day Two,' 'Episode 207: Day Four,' 'On the Set of the New Pegasus,' 'The Magic of Battlestar Galactica,' 'Never Let the Inmates Run the Asylum,' 'Scenes from the Video Blog Floor,' and 'Sex, Lies, and a Video Blog,'
Battlestar Galactica: Season Three:
h Podcast Commentary: 'Occupation' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'Precipice' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'Exodus: Parts 1 & 2' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'Collaborators' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Torn' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'A Measure of Salvation' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Hero' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Hero' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V A second commentary for this episode is included with David Eick.
h Audio Commentary: 'Unfinished Business' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with stars Grace Park and Tahmoh Penikett.
h Audio Commentary: 'Unfinished Business: Extended Version' (Disc 3) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'The Passage' (Disc 3) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'The Eye of Jupiter' (Disc 3) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Rapture' (Disc 3) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Taking a Break from All Your Worries' (Disc 4) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'The Woman King' (Disc 4) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'A Day in the Life' (Disc 4) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Dirty Hands' (Disc 4) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Maelstrom' (Disc 4) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'The Son Also Rises' (Disc 5) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'The Son Also Rises' (Disc 5) &iexcl;V A second commentary for this episode with actor Mark Sheppard and writer Michael Angeli.
h Audio Commentary: 'Crossroads: Parts 1 & 2' (Disc 5) &iexcl;V The two-part season finale commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Crossroads: Parts 1 & 2' (Disc 5) &iexcl;V Another commentary for the season finale with actor Mark Sheppard.
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 1, 12 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episodes 'Occupation,' 'Precipice,' 'Exodus: Part 2,' and 'Collaborators.'
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 2, 8 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episodes ''Torn,' 'A Measure of Salvation,' and 'Hero.'
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 3, 12 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episodes 'The Passage,' 'The Eye of Jupiter,' and 'Rapture.'
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 4, 19 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episodes 'Taking a Break from All Your Worries,' 'The Woman King,' 'A Day in the Life,' 'Dirty Hands, and 'Maelstrom.'
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 5, 8 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episodes 'The Son Also Rises,' and 'Crossroads: Parts 1 & 2.'
h Extended Episode: 'Unfinished Business' (HD, Disc 3) &iexcl;V The unrated extended version of this episode.
h David Eick Video Blogs (SD, Disc 2, 15 minutes) &iexcl;V More video blogs from David Eick: 'Testimonials,' 'Who Dies?' 'Prosthetics,' 'Lucy and David,' and 'Introducing Bulldog,'
h David Eick Video Blogs (SD, Disc 3, 21 minutes) &iexcl;V This disc has more video blogs: 'Characters,' 'Adama on Adama,' 'Episode 6 Read Through,' 'On the Road,' 'Steve McNutt Gets a Video Blog,' and 'The Soldiers' Code: Leave No Man Behind.'
h David Eick Video Blogs (SD, Disc 5, 40 minutes) &iexcl;V Eleven more video blogs: 'Taking a Break From All Your Worries,' 'On the Road: Part 2,' 'Some Guy Named Colin,' 'Building a Better Show,' 'Katee's Scrapbook,' 'Shooting,' 'Mr. Eddie If You Please...,' 'Oceans in the Desert,' 'David Who?' 'Out of Control,' and 'Last Episode Blues.'
h Battlestar Galactica: The Resistance (SD, Disc 2, 27 minutes) &iexcl;V A collection of ten bonus 'Galactica' webisodes featuring an alternate storyline that takes place during the third season.
Battlestar Galactica: Razor:
'Battlestar Galactica: Razor' is included in Season 4 on its own separate disc.
h Audio Commentary: 'Razor: Extended Version' &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore and writer Michael Taylor.
h Deleted Scenes (SD, 3 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from 'Razor.'
h Extended Episode: 'Razor' (HD) &iexcl;V The unrated extended version of this movie.
h Razor Minisodes (SD, 20 minutes) &iexcl;V All seven 'Razor' webisodes are included here.
h The Look of Battlestar Galactica (SD, 8 minutes) &iexcl;V An all too brief glimpse into the production of the series hosted by Moore.
h My Favorite Episode So Far (SD, 11 minutes) &iexcl;V The cast and crew reflect on their favorite episodes of the series.
h Season Four Sneak Peek and Season Four Trailer (SD, 3 minutes) &iexcl;V Snippets promoting the fourth season.
Battlestar Galactica: Season 4.0:
h Podcast Commentary: 'He That Believeth in Me' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'Six of One' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'That Ties That Bind' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'Escape Velocity' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'The Road Less Traveled' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Faith' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore as well as producers Bradley Thompson and David Weddle.
h Audio Commentary: 'Guess What's Coming to Dinner' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore and writer Michael Angeli.
h Audio Commentary: 'Sine Qua Non' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore and writer Michael Taylor.
h Audio Commentary: 'The Hub' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore, co-executive producer Jane Espenson, editor Michael O'Halloran and supervising Editor Andrew Seklir.
h Audio Commentary: 'Revelations' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore, David Weddle, Bradley Thompson, and editor Julius Ramsay.
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 1, 12 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episodes 'He That Believeth in Me,' 'Six of One,' 'That Ties That Bind,' 'Escape Velocity,' 'The Road Less Traveled.'
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 2, 10 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episodes 'Faith,' 'Guess What's Coming to Dinner,' 'Sine Qua Non,' 'The Hub,' and 'Revelations.'
h David Eick Video Blogs (SD, Disc 1, 40 minutes) &iexcl;V Yep, ten more video blogs from David Eick: 'Love in Space,' 'Why Hath David Forsaken Us?' 'So This Is It,' 'What Next? What Now?' 'Digital Pressure,' 'Space Cowboys,' 'Lucy's Breakdown,' 'Are You Frakkin Kidding Me?' 'I'm a Frakkin Cylon,' and 'Last Call,'
h The Journey (SD, Disc 2, 21 minutes) &iexcl;V A very comprehensive documentary packed with cast and crew interviews with their thoughts on the progression of the characters and storylines throughout the series.
h Cylons: The Twelve (SD, Disc 2, 16 minutes) &iexcl;V Just a teaser for the final ten episodes of the series.
h Season 4.5: The Untold Story - Untold (SD, Disc 2, 2 minutes) &iexcl;V A television preview for season 4.5.
h Caprica Sneak Peek (SD, Disc 2, 2 minutes) &iexcl;V A preview for the upcoming 'Battlestar Galactica' prequel spinoff series 'Caprica.'
h The Music of Battlestar Galactica (SD, Disc 2, 23 minutes) &iexcl;V From what I can tell, this is sort of a spoof featurette with composer Bear McCreary. If you're interested in a serious behind-the-scenes look at the music for the series, you're better off with the ones in the next few discs.
Battlestar Galactica: Season 4.5:
h Podcast Commentary: 'Sometimes a Great Notion' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'A Disquiet Follows My Soul' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'A Disquiet Follows My Soul: Extended Version' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'The Oath' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Podcast Commentary: 'Blood on the Scales' (Disc 1) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'No Exit' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Deadlock' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Someone to Watch Over Me' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Islanded in a Stream of Stars' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Islanded in a Stream of Stars: Extended Version' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Islanded in a Stream of Stars: Extended Version' (Disc 2) &iexcl;V Commentary with star/director Edward James Olmos.
h Podcast Commentary: 'Daybreak: Parts 1-3' (Disc 3) &iexcl;V Podcast commentary with Ronald D. Moore.
h Audio Commentary: 'Daybreak: Extended Version' (Disc 3) &iexcl;V Commentary with Ronald D. Moore and David Eick.
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 1, 16 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episodes 'Sometimes a Great Notion,' 'The Oath,' 'Blood on the Scales.'
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 2, 21 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from episodes 'No Exit,' 'Deadlock,' and 'Someone to Watch Over Me.'
h Deleted Scenes (SD, Disc 3, 6 minutes) &iexcl;V Deleted scenes from the series finale 'Daybreak.'
h Extended Episode: 'A Disquiet Follows My Soul' (HD, Disc 1) &iexcl;V The unrated extended version of this episode.
h Extended Episode: 'Islanded in a Stream of Stars' (HD, Disc 2) &iexcl;V The unrated extended version of this episode.
h Extended Episode: 'Daybreak' (HD, Disc 3) &iexcl;V The unrated extended version of the series finale that runs about half an hour longer.
h David Eick Video Blogs (SD, Disc 2, 46 minutes) &iexcl;V More video blogs from David Eick: 'No Retreat No Surrender,' 'The Hatch,' 'The Fifth is Among Us,' 'Action Please,' 'Hanging in the Background,' 'Some Guy Named Colin Part 2,' 'A Cylon Till The End,' 'Inserts Action & FX,' 'Documenting Battlestar Galactica,' 'Life on the Cylon Battleship,' and 'Favorite Battlestar Galactica Moment,'
h The Journey Ends: The Arrival (HD, Disc 1, 13 minutes) &iexcl;V The cast and crew say goodbye to one of the best series ever produced on television.
h Evolution of a Cue (SD, Disc 1, 23 minutes) &iexcl;V Composer Bear McCreary reveals the process on developing musical cues for the score.
h What the Frak is Going On with Battlestar Galactica? (SD, Disc 1, 8 minutes) &iexcl;V A lightning quick recap of the series in eight minutes. The first time I saw this was on You Tube and it's totally hilarious.
h A Look Back (HD, Disc 3, 37 minutes) &iexcl;V A extensive reminder of the series -- from its production, storylines, characters, and development. This feature is divided into six segments: 'So Say We All,' 'Manifesto Destiny,' 'Battle-Style Galactica,' 'Martyr to a Cause,' 'The Sins of the Forgiven,' and 'Battlestar Revelations.'
h &iexcl;KAnd They Have a Plan (HD, Disc 3, 5 minutes) &iexcl;V A promotional piece for the upcoming 'Battlestar Galactica: The Plan' film.

HD Bonus Content: Any Exclusive Goodies in There?
h U-Control: The Oracle &iexcl;V Most, if not all, of the episodes (including the miniseries and Razor) come with this interactive guide to characters, starships, the twelve colonies, and more.
h U-Control: Picture-in-Picture: Miniseries (Season 1, Disc 1) &iexcl;V This interactive feature is composed of notes and interviews for the making of the miniseries. It's the same one found on the previously released HD DVD.
h U-Control: Battlestar Blips (Season 3, All Discs) &iexcl;V An optional viewing mode with a pop-up trivia and factoid track. This feature is a Season 3 exclusive.
h U-Control: Battlestar Actual (Season 4, All Discs) &iexcl;V When activated, this viewing mode displays a pop-up guide to the terminology used in the show. This feature is a Season 4.0 and 4.5 exclusive.
h U-Control: What the Frak Happened to You? (Season 4.5, Disc 3) &iexcl;V Another picture-in-picture track similar to the one for the miniseries. This one is exclusive to the series finale - 'Daybreak: Extended Version.'
h Are You a Cylon? (HD, Season 1, Disc 4) &iexcl;V Take this interactive quiz to see if you are human or a Cylon. It looks like I may be a sleeper toaster that hasn't been activated yet.
h Battlestar Galactica Career Assignment Quiz (HD, Season 2, Disc 5) &iexcl;V An interactive quiz to see what your job would be in the Galactica universe. I've been assigned XO.
h Colonial Military Assignment Quiz (HD, Season 3, Disc 5) &iexcl;V Another interactive quiz to determine what your rank would be in the Colonial fleet. I'm a Lieutenant (that's what I get for being a little rusty on the trivia questions).
h Battlestar Galactica: Ultimate Battle (Season 4.0, Disc 1) &iexcl;V A BD-Live card game. I was expecting a poker-style game like the one from the show, but it's actually more along the lines of a collectible card game. I couldn't get it to work for me, though. The game can be found on the first disc of both 4.0 and 4.5 half-seasons.
h The Musicians Behind Daybreak (SD, Season 4.5, Disc 3, 31 minutes) &iexcl;V In this documentary, composer Bear McCreary gives viewers an inside look at the creation of the music for the series finale.
h Exclusive Deleted Scenes (SD, Season 4.0, Discs 1 & 2, 23 minutes) &iexcl;V Just in case you haven't had enough deleted scenes, there are a few more exclusive to this Blu-ray from the following episodes: 'Six of One,' 'Guess What's Coming to Dinner,' 'The Hub,' and 'Revelations.'
h My Scenes &iexcl;V Bookmark and save clips of favorite scenes and send them to your friends.
h BD-Live Download Center &iexcl;V Lastly, the disc is BD-Live enabled. The area has the usual option to register and a collection of previews, and as of this writing there&iexcl;¦s also the Battlestar Galactica: Ultimate Battle card game. I was expecting a poker-style game like the one from the show, but it's actually more along the lines of a collectible card game with Cylons vs. humans. I couldn't get it to work for me, though. The game can be found on the first disc of both 4.0 and 4.5 half-seasons.
The Cutting Room Floor: What Didn't Make the Blu-ray?
While the extensive supplemental package is more than enough to make any 'Battlestar Galactica' fan run circles around the room giddy with glee, there are few items noticeably absent from this Blu-ray collection:
h Battlestar Galactica: The Lowdown (40 minutes) &iexcl;V The featurette originally included on the miniseries DVD release isn't included in this set. However, parts of it have been incorporated into the U-Control features so technically it isn't really a total loss.
h Battlestar Galactica: The Series - The Lowdown (20 minutes) &iexcl;V This "making of" featurette included on the Season One DVD is also absent, although like the previous featurette, some of this seems to be recycled into the interactive content.
h The Making of Battlestar Galactica: Razor &iexcl;V This behind-the-scenes featurette for the 'Razor' special was included on a bonus disc as a Best Buy exclusive for the DVD release. Too bad that it isn't part of this set.
h 'The Face of the Enemy' Webisodes &iexcl;V A series of ten webisodes 'The Face of the Enemy' is MIA from this set. It's disappointing that Universal couldn't find the room for these segments, but hopefully they will be available at some point perhaps as a download via BD-Live or part of the upcoming movie 'Battlestar Galactica: The Plan.'
Easter Eggs
There are a few Easter eggs reported so far in this set:
h Sharon Audio Quote (Season 2, Disc 5) &iexcl;V On the setup menu, highlight the French option and press RIGHT to hear this audio quote.
h Hidden Deleted Scenes (SD, Season 3, Disc 5) &iexcl;V Technically this might not be considered an egg, but on the 'Colonial Military Assignment Quiz' (fifth disc of Season 3) a hidden deleted scene can be viewed upon completion of the test. It looks like there are seven scenes in total.
h Music Editing Clip (SD, Season 4.5, Disc 1, 2 minutes) &iexcl;V On the setup menu, highlight the "Evolution of a Clue" option and press RIGHT to access this short featurette.
DISC ONE - Miniseries
Deleted Scenes (21 minutes/480p)
Sketches and Art animated gallery (4 minutes/480p)
From Miniseries to Series featurette (9 minutes/480p)
Change is Good, Now They're Babes featurette (7 minutes/480p)
The Cylon Centurion featurette (5 minutes/480p)
Future/Past Technology featurette (8 minutes/480p)
The Doctor is Out (Of His Mind) featurette (8 minutes/480p)
Production featurette (9 minutes/480p)
Visual Effects featurette (9 minutes/480p)
Epilogue featurette (8 minutes/480p)
Miniseries, Part 1 commentary with director Michael Rymer and executive producers David Eick and Ronald D Moore
Miniseries, Part 2 commentary with director Michael Rymer and executive producers David Eick and Ronald D Moore
U-Control: The Oracle
U-Control: Picture-in-Picture
DISC TWO - Season 1 Part 1
Deleted Scenes (17 minutes/480p)
33 commentary with director Michael Rymer and executive producers David Eick and Ronald D Moore
Bastille Day commentary with executive producers David Eick and Ronald D Moore
Act of Contrition commentary with executive producers David Eick and Ronald D Moore
You Can't Go Home Again commentary with executive producers David Eick and Ronald D Moore
U-Control: The Oracle
DISC THREE - Season 1 Part 2
Deleted Scenes (12 minutes/480p)
Tigh Me Up, Tigh Me Down commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
The Hand of God commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
U-Control: The Oracle
DISC FOUR - Season 1 Part 3
Deleted Scenes (17 minutes/480p)
Are You a Cylon? Personality Quiz
Colonial Day commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Kobal's Last Gleaming, Part 1 commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Kobal's Last Gleaming, Part 2 commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
U-Control: The Oracle
DISC FIVE - Season 2 Part 1
Deleted Scenes (41 minutes/480p)
Scattered Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Valley of Darkness Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Resistance Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
The Farm Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
U-Control: The Oracle
DISC SIX - Season 2 Part 2
Deleted Scenes (27 minutes/480p)
Home, Part 1 Podcast commentary with executive producers Ronald D Moore and David Eick
Home, Part 2 Podcast commentary with executive producers Ronald D Moore and David Eick
Final Cut Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Sizzle Reel: Sneak Peak at Episode 11 (3 minutes/480p)
U-Control: The Oracle
DISC SEVEN - Season 2 Part 3
Pegasus Extended Episode (59 minutes/1080p)
Deleted Scenes (2 minutes/480p)
Pegasus Extended Episode commentary with executive producers Ronald D Moore and David Eick
Resurrection Ship, Part 1 Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Resurrection Ship, Part 2 Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Epiphanies Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
U-Control: The Oracle
DISC EIGHT - Season 2 Part 4
Deleted Scenes (25 minutes/480p)
Black Market Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Scar Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Sacrifice Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
The Captain's Hand Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
U-Control: The Oracle
DISC NINE - Season 2 Part 5
Deleted Scenes (14 minutes/480p)
Battlestar Galactica Career Assignment Quiz
David Eick's Video Blogs x7 (28 minutes/480p)
RND Logos show reel (2 minutes/480p)
Downloaded Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Lay Down Your Burdens, Part 1 Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Lay Down Your Burdens, Part 2 Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
U-Control: The Oracle
DISC TEN - Season 3 Part 1
Deleted Scenes (12 minutes/480p)
Occupation Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Precipice Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Exodus, Part 1 Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Exodus, Part 2 Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Collaborations Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
U-Control: The Oracle
U-Control: Battlestar Blips
DISC ELEVEN - Season 3 Part 2
Deleted Scenes (18 minutes/480p)
The Resistance Webisodes x10 (26 minutes/480p)
David Eick's Video Blogs x5 (16 minutes/480p)
Torn Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
A Measure of Salvation Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Hero Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Hero commentary with executive producer David Eick
Unfinished Business Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore and actors Grace Park and Tahmoh Penikett
U-Control: The Oracle
U-Control: Battlestar Blips
DISC TWELVE - Season 3 Part 3
Unfinished Business Unaired, Extended Cut (69 minutes/1080p)
Deleted Scenes (12 minutes/480p)
David Eick's Video Blogs x6 (21 minutes/480p)
The Passage Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
The Eye of Jupiter Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Rapture Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Unfinished Business Unaired, Extended Cut commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
U-Control: The Oracle
U-Control: Battlestar Blips
DISC THIRTEEN - Season 3 Part 4
Deleted Scenes (19 minutes/480p)
Taking a Break From All Your Worries Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
The Woman King Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
A Day in the Life Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Dirty Hands Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Maelstrom Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
U-Control: The Oracle
DISC FOURTEEN - Season 3 Part 5
Deleted Scenes (8 minutes/480p)
Colonial Military Assessment Quiz
David Eick's Video Blogs x11 (40 minutes/480p)
The Son Also Rises Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
The Son Also Rises Bonus Podcast commentary with actor Mark Sheppard and writer Michael Angeli
Crossroads, Part 1 Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Crossroads, Part 1 Bonus Podcast commentary with actor Mark Sheppard
Crossroads, Part 2 Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Crossroads, Part 2 Bonus Podcast commentary with actor Mark Sheppard
U-Control: The Oracle
U-Control: Battlestar Blips
DISC FIFTEEN - Razor
Broadcast Version (88mins/1080p) and Unrated Version (104mins/1080p)
Deleted Scenes (4mins/480p)
The Look of Battlestar Galactica featurette (8mins/480p)
My Favourite Episode So Far... featurette (10mins/480p)
Season 4 Sneak Peak (3mins/480p)
Season 4 Trailer (1min/480p)
Minisodes x7 (19mins/480p)
Razor: Unrated commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore and writer Michael Taylor
U-Control: The Oracle
U-Control: Battlestar Blips
DISC SIXTEEN - Season 4 Part 1
Deleted Scenes (47mins/480p)
David Eick's Video Blogs x10 (40mins/480p)
He That Believeth in Me Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Six of One Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
The Ties That Bind Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
Escape Velocity Podcast commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore
The Road Less Traveled Podcast commentary with executive producer RonaldD Moore
U-Control: The Oracle
U-Control: Battlestar Actual
DISC SEVENTEEN - Season 4 Part 2
Deleted Scenes - including Blu-ray exclusive footage (38mins/480p)
The Journey featurette (21mins/480p)
Cylons: The Twelve featurette (16mins/480p)
Season 4.5: The Untold Story - Untold (1mins/480p)
The Music of Battlestar Galactica featurette (23mins/480p)
Caprica: Sneak Peek (2mins/480p)
Faith commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore and supervising producers Bradley Thompson and David Weddle
Guess Who's Coming to Dinner commentary with executive producer Ronald D Moore and writer Michael Angeli
Sine Que Non commentary with executive producer Ron