As a lover and connoisseur of horror movies, I had high hopes for this film (especially in light of the tremendously disappointing last few years we've seen in the genre). I was both impressed and disappointed. [VERY minor plot spoilers follow, so beware]
The acting is wonderful, particularly Gina Phillips in the role of Trish. The new faces are a welcome change. The scenes where Darry goes through the church, I think, were the freakiest and most gratifying of the whole movie. If you haven't seen it, you'll see what I mean. And I can say that I was genuinely apprehensive about that stupid beat-up truck--I kept watching for it to reappear on the road and jumped every time it did.
Now for the bad news...First of all, haven't we had enough of horror movies making references to horror movies? You know, the ones that say things like "If we were in a horror movie, then you'd be dead right after we have sex" (no, that particular one's not in this movie)? I think there were two lines in particular that made me groan. They offered nothing to the script except to rip me right out of the movie mindset, and should have been left on the cutting room floor.
Secondly, most good monster/demon/scary creature flicks either have a really, really, really scary monster (something original), or they just don't ever give you a good look at it. This one, unfortunately, doesn't do either. You see the thing, many times, and it's really not THAT freaky. It looks like something I would see getting it's butt kicked (very easily) by Buffy on Tuesday nights. I would have liked it better with a few glimpses and a whole lot of shadows and noises. But that's just me, the money-spending viewer.
The whole psychic-lady thing didn't work for me. I realize that there had to be somebody to reveal certain things about what the two main characters were up against, but it was all little too convenient and contrived for my taste.
Lastly, the ending--was that really necessary? I think they could have lopped off a big chunk of it and we all would have been happier. It all goes back to what I said before about the creature--sometimes the scariest things are the ones you DON'T see (I mean, come on! Why do you think the Blair Witch Project was so successful?).
Overall, I would recommend seeing this movie, but don't pay the full $8 or whatever. See the matinee or wait for video.