There is an objectivity and predictability about farm life that would seem to be a source of comfort:  the cycle of life, the cycle of time, the food chain, the survival of the fittest.  There is a connection to the earth that reminds us all life begins and ends with and in the earth--yet, when someone comes along to inject that world with a dose of passion, of sincere and open-faced love for all life--wherever it links to the food chain and however fit or unfit--the objective and predictable give way to delightful chaos.

Such is the world of E.B. White's children's book Charlotte's Web, and now a Paramount movie directed by Gary Winick.  Many of us met Fern, who befriends a runt pig, names him Wilbur, and fights for his life against the slow-moving, monotonous machinery of the family farm.

Fern is a fighter and just a little sassy to her parents.  Her parents are wonderful because they let her lead the way on this one, and they don't put out the fire of her passion.  They let her learn, and they learn with and from her.

The beloved Wilbur in his turn breathes life into the barn, and the critters there find a new heart and soul inside themselves.  Notably, Templeton the Rat and Charlotte the Spider--by most accounts two scourges on the pastoral landscape of our sleepy imaginations--conspire despite themselves to find the right words and spin a web that causes a community to stop and see the wonder in Wilbur.

Among the words that help to save Wilbur's life are some pig, and radiant, but the most important one is humble.  Humility is at the heart of this story.  It is the awareness that we can learn from each other.  If we are all teachers, we are all deserving of respect.  That respect transforms life as much as the learning does.  You can't help noticing that the world is beautiful.

This is the stuff of the third grade, the age at which most of us first encountered White's chapter book.  Years later in high school or college we might also have come across Strunk & White's Elements of Style, which White created with his college professor and for which he wrote the introduction.  It's the simplest, cleanest, most direct text on how to write well.  It's a lesson that's easy to take from the man who taught you as a child that every word counts, that words can make or break a soul, that the kingdom belongs to the least of these--to you and to me.