I'm a animated disney film lover, and Pocahontas is my favorite.

I don't care what people say about the relationships, I don't care if people find fault with the strong and sincere character of Pocahontas...

what I DO care about however, is people disliking the movie simply because it's not true to historical fact.  It's Loosely based on history sure, but most fairy tales and films are, and what they evolve into doesn't matter, or Shouldn't matter, as long as the spirit remains the same, and the SPIRIT of Pocahontas is just where it should be.  So if you're going to crit this beautiful and moving animated masterpiece, pick some other aspect of it to attack, or I'll hunt you down.

Another common attack is various reflections on how it's unrealistic.  Seriously.  have you watched any disney films recently?!  Wait, forget that, have you watched ANY films.. ever?  Most aren't realistic.  If you want real, look out the freaking window, go for a walk, live life.

Oh, this movie can't be good, it has Pocahontas talking to animals...  native americans didn't talk to animals, well, first of all, how do we know that she didn't talk to animals?  We all talk to animals, ever yell at your dog?  Ever ask your cat to sit on your lap?  Get a grip, they're cute.

Oh, this movie can't be good,  how do Pocahontas and Smith understand one another?  Listening with your heart?  Seriously? ... YES.  would you rather have them speaking different languages the whole time?  maybe it'd be better if they just ran subtitles for the 3 yr olds.  Or have a 20 minute montage of all the characters going to langage lab.  Ugh.  It's called artistic license, it's not hard to understand.  And if you still are going to fret about that, then remember that most disney films take place in other parts of the world, and Belle and Ariel didn't speak french, and as far as i'm concerned no one can really understand lions, so just shut up right now, unless you are attacking all disney movies, in which case, why the heck did you even come to this page to begin with?

If you don't think you should let your kids watch something so violent, then you shouldn't let them outside the house.  It's freaking PG, chill out, and if you are at the same time  concerned about how it's not accurate, wouldn't the accurate version be a BIT more graphic?!  And If your kids watch this and think it's acutally what happened, then in history class, they will get the real story, or you could tell it to them, no biggie!  But that would involve actually Talking to them instead of just sitting them in front of a movie.  Inaccuaracy in media is a good lesson to learn, no matter the age.  Too many people out there believeing everything thats fed to them.  Question information, and then find yourself some answers!

Okay, that's enough ranting for one afternoon.

PS.  Tell me you don't get goosebumps from just LISTENING to Pocahontas run to the cliff to wave to Smith at the end.  Seriously.