Just saw this yesterday, and enjoyed it very much.  There is something uplifting about the aspiration of beauty, even when it reaches unattainable heights of personal beauty (digitally enhanced) or sartorial splendor (that may or may not ever materialize in your local department store, let alone on the runway).  "The September Issue" soars with beautiful fashion photography as well as an almost undetectable level of tension and interpersonal cruelty, or percieved cruelty, coming from the dion of fashion, Anna Wintour.

Partnered with (and sometimes opposing) her long-time co-worker Grace Coddington, Wintour pushes to produce the annual "bible" of the fashion industry, the September issue of Vogue magazine.  That tome, alleged to be as thick as a phone book, drives her and the whole office to deeper and deeper levels of concentration and higher and higher levels of stress throughout, as we tag along and watch her making Svengali-like decisions that (very) frequently slap down her staff--almost in the style of Meryl Streep in "The Devil Wears Prada."  Devotees of that fictional comedy will be amused to see that the two women's offices are nearly identical, and may chuckle (or gasp) as Ms. Wintour abruptly dismisses a younger woman with an incongruous "thanks!" after clearly and firmly explaining that she's not getting what she wants from the somewhat devastated layout designer.  Ms. Streep, in "Prada," famously ended her icy critiques with the airy, dismissive "that's all."

In another scene, just after arriving in Paris with Ms. Coddington, Ms. Wintour seems to cringe and flinch ever-so-slightly, as if waiting for a confrontation after removing a lavish chunk of remarkable photography from the September planning (a series of photos supplied by Ms. Coddington herself).  But Ms. Coddington is too good a soldier to provoke a confrontation before the camera, which further attests to the power and respect her boss commands.

The movie becomes something of a "how-to" story of one woman's fierce leadership of a world-renown publication, though Ms. Wintour's decision-making is often opaque, maintaining an aura of mystery that further makes this a documentary worth talking about.