The original Dragon Ball series has long been overshadowed by its sequel, Dragon Ball Z.  I would chalk it up to the dubbing and the TV censorship.  Dragon Ball is filled with comedy, and you can't dub or censor comedy and except it to be nearly as funny.

But make no mistake, Dragon Ball is the superior series.  If you've seen the popular "over 9000" Youtube video, you've basically seen DBZ.  It is a very formulaic show, though it is still entertaining to watch, provided you're watching the filler-less Kai version of DBZ.  Dragon Ball, on the other hand, is a far more substantial show.  Like DBZ, it is oriented around martial-arts fighting.  Unlike DBZ, it is also character-oriented.  This makes a big difference.  Goku, the main character, starts the series as an adorable, carefree, incredibly naive boy.  He ends the series as a calmer, cooler adult (though strangely enough he is childish again in the DBZ series).  It is his continual and constant progression in strength, skill, and eventually maturity, which is one of the main highlights of the series.

However, the supporting cast of characters is no slouch either.  There are so many creative and entertaining characters in the series, many of whom also develop throughout the series.  For example, Buruma (or Bulma) starts out as an atypical bratty and self-absorbed teenage girl, but becomes much more mature and likable as the series progresses.  Unfortunately, these great characters lose a lot of their personality in DBZ.

As the characters grow, so does the scope and seriousness of the conflicts they face.  This is another one of the main highlights of the series.  It begins as a comedic series, and elements of seriousness are introduced as the series progresses.  This is why it is important to watch the series in its original Japanese language.  The comedy is absolutely hilarious, and much of it comes from Goku's naivete towards pretty much everything.  There is also a lot of humor revolving around the perverted Muten Roshi, but it's all in good fun, and I doubt anyone would be seriously offended.

Dragon Ball is broken up by three martial-arts tournaments.  Each of these tournaments contain strategic fights that I find more engaging than the mindless powering-up battles of DBZ.  It is during the second of these tournaments where there is a clear change in tone from mostly humorous to mostly serious.  The intensity level ratchets up further when a major character dies shortly after the tournament.  This last portion of the series is fantastic, because at this point you have already seen these characters in numerous humorous situations, continually growing, and to see them finally face a seriously threatening situation is very gratifying.  Goku's battles during this portion of the series are more brutal than anything in DBZ.

In conclusion, Dragon Ball is a must-see series for anime fans.

Here's hoping for some Dragon Ball Dragon Boxes (Dragon Box Z has already made it the U.S.).  These season sets look all right, but they are slightly zoomed in, and have occasional dirt and dust particles that were cleaned up on the Japanese Dragon Boxes.  There's also a yellowish tinge to the picture that is again not present on the Dragon Boxes.  Finally, the sound quality for the Japanese audio track is not as good as the track in the Dragon Box.  The subtitles are very nice though.