The aim  of the rallies and parades described here was to create dramatic impressions that overcame rationality and reached the emotions of participants. The adrenlin that must have been generated among the thousands at these rallies  and other Nazi events, probably could have filled an ocean. Wilhelm Reich's _Mass Pyschology of Fascism__ gives a very good analysis of this aspect of the Nazi party and its regime.

The film captures the Sixth Congress of the Nazi party in 1934, the first after Hitler had come to office.  What also see is how the Nazis studied what the theater, the cinema, the church, and the pyschologists had learned about the use of pagentry, of light and darkness, of symbol and ceremony to craft their spectacles.

I remember the first time I saw it, I watched it in solemn, silent awe, as impressed by its images as I was disgusted and terrified by what it documented.

Leni Riefenstahl was a genius.  The film techniques used, the editing, the absence of any narration, and the way you are struck by the film despite the utterly disgusting spectacle that this film was, are great example of the what both creativity and technical achievement can produce.
It is a massive example of the central concept of dramatic art: SHOW DON'T TELL.

The film was used not only as a propoganda piece around the world where it won many prizes, but as indoctrination in Germany itself. Every school child in Germany was forced to see this film with its marching storm troopers, its shreaking speaches by Hitler, Goebels, and other Nazi leaders, and its display of pagentry.

  All of this was not by accident.  The congress came after a major crisis in the Nazi movement. The Nazis had always had a radical rhetoric, claiming to defend working people (The party's actual name was the German National Socialist Workers party) against the huge landowners, the bankers, the corporate plutocrats who had in fact bankrolled and managed Hitler's rise to power.  A radical wing of the party was concentrated in the SA, the storm troopers--the Nazi's gangs of organized thugs and street brawlers--, their leader, Ernst Roehm. After Hitler came to power in 1933 Roehm demanded a "second revolution" by the Nazis against the plutocrats.  Roehm demand a merger of the Army which was the lynch pin of the old Prussian Aristoracy and Germany's new capitalist magnates-- and the storm troopers be combined under the Roehm's leadership. Germany's ruling class threatened to replace Hitler, or, at least not allow him to succeed the ailing President Von Hindenberg, if Roehm and the other adherents of the "second revolution" were not crushed.

  In June 1934 Hitler had hundreds of Storm Troopers including Roehm  murdered.  Roehm was replaced by Viktor Lutze, an insignificant police official and the SA was allowed to whither away.  Meanwhile. the SS, Protective Squadron, which had hitherto been Hitler's personal body guard was extended to become a large organization, fielding its own military divisions in the the Second World War.

  The Sixth Nazi Congress shown in the _Triumph of the Will_  took place in September 1934, only a few months after the SA purge. Throughout the film you are continually seeing Viktor Lutze, you are continually seeing affirmations of loyalty by the Storm Troops, including a huge cermony in which tens of thousands of Storm Troppers swear allegiance to Hitler (Previously, these thugs swore to obey their unit commanders only). In the speech that concludes the Congress and the film, Hitler 's final point is that the two institutions that are the foundation of the new order in Germany are the Army and its aristocartic leadership and the Nazi party.

The rally ratified loyalty to Hitler, loyalty to the course of serve the capitalists, the landowners, and the army after the Roehm purge.

The splender of the triumph of the will, the marching thousands, the banners, the spotlights, the festivities of women, children, townspeople, and the brown shirted hordes, all was staging to ratify that the same old plutocrats and big landowners that Hitler had claimed to fight for the interest of Germany's people were still in the saddle.