I'll be honest. I rented this movie expecting it to be terrible. I thought that mediocre would be a miracle in regards to this story. I didn't think it could be done in a miniseries format, or even a movie format due to the length of the tale.
I was dead wrong, and was pleasantly surprised. They were able to keep all the important scenes (and plenty of unimportant yet character building scenes) from the book while still keeping it fairly short (in comparison to the book).  Still probably a 2 session movie, but considering the length of the book its pretty amazing they were able to keep it as short as it was and tell the story so well.
The acting in this miniseries is very good, especially from Sinise, Sheridan, and Faggerbakke. Rob Lowe, Molly Ringwald, Corin Nemec and Laura san Giacomo also are great in the movie. Its practically a who's who of late 80's up and comers. 
The casting is great, most of the characters look close to how I pictured them when I read the book, and in a few instances, I think the actor was almost born for his part. Specifically Matt Frewer as the Trash Can Man and Miguel Ferrer as Lloyd. Both gave excellent performances that instead of changing how I thought of their characters only added to what I already had pictured in my mind. 
But aside from surprisingly good acting and miracle casting, this movie did a great job adapting a very long and difficult novel. The Stand is NOT a horror story but rather a contemporary one with some elements of science fiction. The story centers on the survivors of a plague which kills 99% of the USA population. Most of them begin having pseudo-psychic dreams of either a motherly woman in Nebraska or a Mysterious male figure in the deserts of Nevada. Eventually the survivors come together as two communities lead by these semi-religious figures and the story goes from there. As you could imagine, traveling across the country when 99% of the population is gone could make for a movie in and of itself, but The Stand also covers how the characters set up a new society and what they eventually decide to do about the rival community ran by the bad man from their dreams.  I won't ramble on since a lot of the reviews mention the story, plus you could look up the book for more info, the movie follows it pretty closely.
Its a story of good and evil set in a future we can all imagine but hope never happens. Many have called it King's greatest work, and I think it is certainly in the top 5. However, a title that it does deserve is best screen adaptation (probably a tie with Kubrick's adaptation of "the shining") because this DVD is fantastic and won't dissapoint. 
4.5 out of 5 stars.