The message of this movie is to be found in its quiet moments. It is in the silent angst of a woman torn between her personal convictions and public obligations. It is in the graceful and dignified demeanor of a queen, despite the battles that rage within her. You would not know it to look at her, and that's precisely how she would have wanted it, lest you should think her to be some heartless monarch.

The Queen's(Mirren) initial decision to refrain from making any public statement after Princess Diana's death was as much rooted in protocol as it was in a personal grudge. Why should the monarchy make an official statement on behalf of a lady who was no longer the Princess of Wales? Moreover, why should she have to acknowledge a woman who made a mockery of her family? Lost in her own world of justifications, she waits for the hysteria to die down and the public to "come around"; but they never do. The newly elected Tony Blair(Sheen) serves as a barometer for public opinion to the monarch and coaxes her ever so gently to address Diana's death in a statement, especially with the media quick to disapprove of her stoic disposition. However, Blair, a keen observer, is also mindful of her internal conflict and respects her all the more when she finally makes a decision to appease the English people despite her own misgivings.

The British Monarchy has always lived in the shadow of Diana's popularity, a friction that was brought to surface with the tragic incident. If this movie is a propaganda, then it is a good and well deserved one; at least Her Majesty has finally found a level playing field with the "People's Princess". No, the Queen would not have you believe her to be some heartless monarch, but a wise woman who has endured countless administrations throughout the decades, and in doing so, has realized that the demands of her people are more important than her own, even if her appeasement ultimately came at the eleventh hour. Mirren's acting is controlled and contemplative, as it should be, Micheal Sheen lacks presence and the motley cast that surrounds them are forgettable. Considering that more than three-fourths of screen time is devoted to Mirren, the weak supporting cast is not a mitigating factor to the overall excellence of the film by any means.

P.S. This may not be the true representation of what went on behind Buckingham Palace in 1997, but it paints a highly believable scenario.