Branford Marsalis says in the film about Sting's music:  "The music is a tremendous social statement.  Musicians are always social critics.  And that's the biggest problem with pop music is that they don't have any more social critics.  They don't have enough people with the intelligence or the balls to stand up and see the world for what it is and say, 'This s$!t is out.' "

When viewing the same problems, what makes one person call for violence and another person call for understanding?  There are probably many reasons.  The title to this review is an Anais Nin quote that I think suggests part of the answer.

'Bring on the Night' is a movie about the launching of 'The Dream of the Blue Turtles' album and the creation of an interracial band.  The songs on the album are protest songs, protesting cold war propoganda, nuclear waste, possessive love, pride that refuses to forgive, and many other things.  For example, "If You Love Somebody Set Them Free" is a response to his earlier "Every Breath You Take".

Sting's intent was to be disarming, to disarm through the discussion and publication of ideas.  He took a stand by stating his positions.  He did not choose to be silent or abandon the issues he cared about.  In his mind, love is not hidden and not silent.  Love doesn't say, "I care about this issue, but don't tell anyone what I think."  Good protest songs are made to be sung.

Some of the lyrcis from the movie include:  "One world is enough for all of us."  "Love is the seventh wave."  "I spent too many years at war with myself.  Doctor has told me, it's no good for my health."

Sting spends time writing a song to his ex, where he laid out both his admission of guilt and an olive branch for reconciliation:  "If I built this fortress around your heart, encircled you in trenches and barbed wire, then let me build a bridge, for I cannot fill the chasm, and let me set the battlements on fire."

This movie is the most fluid rock band film I've seen, and both the music and interviews discuss substantive issues.  If you are a fan of acapella or minimal accompaniment, the film has amazing, open versions of both 'Roxanne' and 'Message in a Bottle.'