This is probably the most thought provoking movie that has been released into the States from Japan yet, it gives a real moral question on personal survival against the bonds of friends and loved ones.  The movie has us shown in the fictional near future of Japan with a near bankrupt economy and for some reason have mad a law called Battle Royale where a group of high school students picked at random or forced to fight each other until there is only one survivor who has the "Honor" of coming back to Japan and becoming a helpful citizen to their country.  Many of the actors and actresses pulled off their roles with great realism as you can't help but wonder what you would do in that situation.Could you kill your best friend?, you girlfriend?, your boyfriend just to stay alive.  The movie shows us all these angst thoughts and choices the students make in this horrendous situation.  Some will kill,others will unite to escape,and others lose hope.  The emotional acting from the cast was great and you can't help but empathize with their plight, as you watch the movie you feel some choices were right some wrong but in all the choices are made for good or bad.  The video quality is nice and clear and the audio is sharp so no complaints on either part.  This is definitely not a movie for young children and I would also advise with teens under 16 until the parent watches the movie first to make sure if their children can handle the scenario in the movie.  So a great movie with a great cast and story are here for you to enjoy regardless and at a very affordable price as well....

Update 06-20-2012

Some friends and others were wondering if this version comes with a dubbed English audio,  while you do get a dubbed cast more then 70% of them were just atrocious while doing their lines.  This is one movie that would have been better just being subbed because if you can't get a halfway decent dubbed voice cast then all you're going to leave people watching the movie with is a headache and annoyance..