Woody Allen had never been more mature and sensitive than in Annie Hall. A true delight from start to end this isn't a laugh out loud comedy. It's a subtle, charming and smart look in the lives of two strange lovers.
  Allen has always shown us the way people is without really explain why. That's a great thing about his comedies. They focus on normal life, the daily events. He lets all of the one liners, philosophical comments and observations of life lie there unconnected, not forcing them to melt together to reveal an universal truth. He eventually manages to draw a perfect portrait of the way people is and after all is said and done he reaches a conclusion as simple as it is powerfully true.
  Annie Hall is maybe the most moving film to achieve this, since it concentrates in love and the way each relationship changes our lives, even if it doesn't work out you can always take the best of the other person with you.
  Annie Hall is a goofy and insecure aspiring singer who finds a potencial soulmate in Alvyn Singer a nervous, pesimistic and sarcastic comedian. Together they build a relationship in which they try to change each other for the better. Annie manages to brighten obssessed-with-death-Alvyn's life while he gives her the confidence she needs by encouraging her to educate herself and being there to never let her feel like she has failed.
  But as time goes by Annie suddenly has outgrown Alvyn, who still refuses enjoy things and not worry. It's now up to them to decide what they will do.
  The film reaches the bittersweet conclusion as Alvyn and Annie see again and each one understands that they didn't waste time with each other, and that their relationship help them change so much that they can't fully get over each other. The movie ends with a melancholic and moving secuence of several shots from different parts of the movie each one presenting the couple in their happy moments and Allen saying: "...It was great seeing Annie again, right?  I realized what a terrific person she was and-and how much fun it was just knowing her". With that line he closes a chapter of his life in a sweet and happy way.
  Annie Hall is a terrific film, full of smart one-liners and sarcastic remarks in the old Allen style, the direction is sublime and the pace is fluid though the way of storytelling could be confusing for some.

  Annie Hall is probably the greatest romantic comedy you'll find today and just as any movie should it leaves you the feeling that you've seen something beautiful and special. Should not be missed.