First, quite the movie poster. I think one of the reasons I wanted to watch this film was I just could not figure out what on earth was coming out of this guys mouth.

Another reason is I just love a good haunting. From the moment I saw Amityville Horror, I have been fairly hooked on the haunted house genre.

Anyway... The Haunting In Connecticut takes place in...yep Connecticut. Is it just me or do more hauntings seem to take place in the East? Probably just me. The movie gives you that whole thing is based on a true story. I don't fully buy the true story stuff, because I have heard that before with things like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre.  Also reading that the Warrens were involved made me a doubter.  I don't care if a movie is based on a true story or not.  A good horror film is good no matter who thought it up or if it actually happened.

The story is about a family who moves to this home in Connecticut to be closer to the facility where their son is getting treatment for cancer. The family is facing the financial hardships you would expect when a child is seriously ill, and they rent the home because it is simply a wonderful deal and they really need a break.

A great deal is usually attached to something pretty bad, and this house is no exception. This home has a past as a former funeral home. Not terribly terrifying in the grand scheme of things. I mean, yeah, kind of creepy living in a place where dead bodies were prepared for burial, but it is after all, just a house in the long run.

As barely days go by, bad things start happening in the home, and the family learns there are secrets to this home that have not been revealed.

The movie definitely does its job in grabbing you and making you flinch with the typical blast of noise and the flash of something out of the corner of a character's eye. It gives good explanations as to what could be going on, so that the family may not at first be as terrified as they should, but of course the viewer knows better.

Pros - The acting is really done well. The special effects are used in just the right amount. Nothing is too over the top other than the creepy stuff coming out of the mouth of the young man in the poster. Really, that is probably the grossest thing to me. FAVORITE PRO - Elias Koteas. Ahhhh a nice blast from my John Hughes loving past. He was an artist hoodlum in one of my faves "Some Kind of Wonderful."

Cons - I am a little tired of seeing people stay in a house that is obviously haunted or at the very least dangerous. How many red flags can one home fling up before people just GET OUT?!!! Seriously. Other con...I am so tired of father's in films pretty much sucking butt. Men...you need to stand up for yourselves with the entertainment industry, because no matter what the genre is you are all portrayed very badly for the most part. Unless you are Will Smith.

This was a movie that I had no intention of seeing at the theater. There are just some that scream BIG SCREEN and some that do not. Really, I get more impacted in the privacy of my own home when I am watching a horror film. A large audience just distracts me. It was a great horror movie to watch while snuggled up on the couch enjoying a bowl of popcorn.

I would give this 3.5 stars if I could. Trust me, this is NOT a bad rating. It did the job.