This movie brings up many philosophical questions about life, death, love, and what it means to be human.  It leaves itself open to many interpretations, and will leave you thinking about the larger meanings and messages long after the film is ended.

****ALERT - MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!!!****

First off, I think one main message of the film is about how certain forgotten classes of people are used and tossed aside by the rest of us, to make our lives more luxurious or comfortable.  The only way we can manage to live with the knowledge that we are profiting off this exploitation, is to pretend these people don't exist.  We know there is child labor, and sweatshops, and that many of our clothes/sneakers/electronics are made in 3rd-world factories in borderline slave conditions, often by children who have no hope for a better life.  But we push this inconvenient truth out of our minds in order to enjoy the luxuries these forgotten people make possible.  It was interesting that in the film, almost every "regular" person who came in contact with the schoolchildren (deliverymen, maintenance workers, etc.), seemed very uncomfortable around them and wanted to avoid interaction with them.  They did not want to be reminded of the cost innocent people are paying for their longevity.

I also found it interesting that you almost never saw the beneficiaries of the Donor's sacrifice.  They lived in an alternate universe where the organs they needed just appeared - the messiness and horror of the process was hidden from them.  One very brief but telling scene is when the children were all in a restaurant laughing loudly, and an older couple at a nearby table looks at them with disgust and annoyance.  These are the very same people who will likely live a long life thanks to the ultimate sacrifice of the "annoying" young people.

I also found the issue of the "Deferrals" to be full of philosophical significance.  In essence I think Ishiguro is making a comment about death, and how we all bargain for more time with the ones we love.  Interestingly, in the film the deferrals turn out to be nothing but a false rumor, a children's fairytale.  I think perhaps the author is making a comment on belief in the afterlife... we all want to believe that death is not the end, that we will see our loved ones in the afterlife.  After all, if our love is true enough, justice MUST dictate that we get more time with them.  Is there any basis in truth to this belief?  Or, are we like the kids at Hailsham - desperately believing a made-up story?

Of course, the film makes it clear from the very 1st scene that deferrals are false - we see Tommy clearly about to reach "completion" even as the opening credits roll, so we know there will be no happy ending for he and Kathy.  So the viewer is not surprised by the revelation late in the film that there are no deferrals.  What is touching, however, is the childlike hope with which Tommy and Kathy cling to this dream of more time together.  One of the most moving parts of the film is when we realize that Kathy, always the more grounded one, has just realized there are no deferrals - even as Tommy still clings to his hope.  Carey Mulligan does wonders with the smallest of expressions in this scene.

Also on the subject of the afterlife, in the final scene when Kathy looks across the field, she imagines seeing Tommy running across to her.  This is clearly a reference to the standard Hollywood version of two lovers reuniting in the afterlife.  We've seen this type of "happy ending" so often in movies, that we almost expect to see him come running over the horizon.  But tellingly, he never does - and Kathy never even allows the fantasy to progress to the point where they actually embrace.  The thought of something that she knows will never happen is too painful.  There is no more time.  There is no deferral.  All she will ever have is the brief time they had together.

So in the end I think this is a movie about life - specifically, the blink-of-an-eye flash of time we all get on this earth.  Anyone who has been truly in love will know that no amount of years will ever be enough.  We all want a deferral, and would give almost anything for one.  In fact, the people in this fictional society in effect bargain their humanity away in exchange for their own deferrals - they allow innocent young people to suffer and die in exchange for their own "deferrals".  But in the end, deferral or not, "completion" comes for us all, and too soon. All we can do is appreciate every moment, and respect all of our fellow humans, and never let each other go.