I'll try not to add comments that others have already made.

One thing I'll say is that it is not the horror flick that many make the film out to be.  Grow up!  Yes there were some scenes that make you "shiver"  but this is not a film just going around maiming animals and characters that like S&M as other reviews tend to portray.  Maybe I grew up watching too many horror movies or else reading all these reviews about the gore and violence built up my expectations of what I was to encounter, or else I just watch too much of the daily news.  Whatever, the reason, don't go watch the film thinking it's going to be an all out horror show.

It's about emotions conjured up through anger, betrayal, and love.  It hits the sensitive areas of relationships.  Put yourself into the character's place.  How would you feel and what would you do?  (Maybe not the fish hooks.)

As far as all the PETA comment, (of which I'm not a member) they cry foul over eating a chicken!  Worse stuff happens over here in the US.  Keep in mind it's a different culture you're seeing in the film.  In Vietnam and other parts of Asia they eat dogs.  Other parts of the world may frown on us eating chickens and cows and pigs.  We don't have to "prepare" our animals.  We just buy it packaged and ready to cook.  The gross stuff is done for us.  The so called gross animal scenes are fast and the camera doesn't "loom" on the animal so it's an inconsequential part of the scene.  So what, they put it in a film.  I've seen documentaries on how steak and pork chops are prepared and no one says it's a no-no to show.

The frog incident-She knocked out and skinned a frog to eat/feed to the guys bird.  She didn't skin it first when it was alive.  It's not like we don't eat meat over here.  Her economic status didn't allow her to go to the local Shaws Market and get one skinned and trimmed.  You see last year what people did to chickens being raised for I think KFC?  They were stomping and kicking them for the fun of it.  On the internet I saw a clip of kids putting a live kitten in a cage, pour gas all over it then light the poor thing on fire.

The fish incidents- If you've ever prepared a fish its no big deal.  Yes, it was mean to hack up a fish (guys was pissed) or to run current through it (lady was pissed) but it was trying to convey the anger the characters had in them.  Same with the lady slapping the dog around.  She didn't beat it to death.  She was mad it didn't want to go out on the boat and boat house, plus she wasn't very happy.  (Although it doesn't make it right.)

Fresh sushi-  Can't get it any fresher than that.  If you watch the movie, the fish didn't die as it was caught by the male main character later, then set free, to show his pity for it.

Yes, the fish hook scenes were not pleasant to watch but a) the guy didn't swallow the hooks that far as evidenced by the lady taking them out with a pair of pliers, and b) you dont see her inserting the fish hooks into any place, just up her dress.  There's no clear shot of what she does.  She did bleed quite a bit but wouldn't you if you did that?  I've seen much worse in horror flicks and the news.

Anyway, there's lots more to this film than just the gore and animal mistreatment.  Go see the movie with a blank slate and you'll like it better.  But the ending is a little curious.