This movie was bad. It was not the acting, which was fine. The directing was so- so. I have no problem with english dubs (which is how I watched it. Why would anyone want to have to keep their eyes glued to the bottom of the screen reading subtitles for  2 hours, missing elements of the MOVIE happening above the subtitles, or missing a key dialogue if you have to sneeze or turn your head for some reason?)

No, my problem is with the main element that will make or break a movie: the story.

The point of most main character's journey is to STOP bad things from happening. That seemed to be the goal of the hero here. Instead the "hero" goes back in time to complete a circle of bad events, FOR NO GOOD REASON, other than having the director "show off" and impress us with how he explains why the weird or bad things happened earlier in the movie. But if you think about it, it wasn't impressive at all:

It's like seeing the main character, Hector, trip over a pink rock on the side of the road and injure his knee at the beginning of the movie, then saying "Let's go back in time to prevent this from happening, and find out how this rock got there and why?" The answer is something like: "well because a presumably good main character painted a rock pink and put it there." without answering the question why. "Why? because it's SUPPOSED to be there." Yes, but wasn't the character supposed to STOP the accident from happening in the first place?

There is no reason why things have to turn out they way they do  other than "this event must happen so that in falls in line with the timeline." Thus, the director forces these weird events to happen. But there is still no logical explanation as to why they MUST happen.

On top of that, the main character makes bad decisions at every turn, which disconnects him from the audience. The peripheral characters (mostly women) do not act like independent thinking humans, but automatons who follow the directions of the main character (i.e. the plot) even though what he is asking them to do doesn't make a lick of sense and they have no reason to follow his orders. As a matter of fact, the lead is seems like a selfish twerp and is unlikable.

Back to the bad direction in this movie: At the beginning, a character is stabbed in the arm by an unknown assailant, then turns and runs without looking at his attacker (and we, the audience don't see the "mysterious assailant") That doesn't make sense, other than the director doesn't want us to see this mysterious figure just yet, to keep us in suspense. But it doesn't matter because soon after, we see that the killer had bandages on his face that whole time and we couldn't see what he looked like anyway.

The director needs to take a dip in this movie's "hot tube time machine" so he can go back and undo this mess.