This is my favorite movie of all time. And I don't particularly like Peter Sellers!
It's a slow starter. First time I saw it, I remember being  somewhat puzzled by the opening, where Chance is revealed as a very  retarded middle-aged man, trained as a gardener, who apparantly has reached  his full--and extremely limited--potential. He loses his livelihood and his  sheltered place to live when "the old man"--his mysterious  benefactor--dies, and the lawyers in charge of the estate evict him.
My  first chuckle came soon after, when he tried using his TV remote on a  mugger, trying to change the experience into something more pleasant; it  wasn't until this point in the film that things began to make sense to  me.
Throughout the rest of the movie, scene after scene shows 'Chauncy  Gardener' as a complete misfit--and highlights how we human beings, in all  our frailty, create ourselves and our world through what we decide to  believe. When Chancy speaks, his words are mysterious because they are  short and puzzling--when those around him try to make sense of them, they  take what he says as metaphors, and read wildly profound meanings in his  words.
(This leads to Jerzy Kosinski's purpose for writing the novel, to  highlight the foolish way people blindly swallow whatever tripe the  media--and our politicians--serve up. IMO director Hal Ashby caught Jerzy's  intention with this movie even better than the book did.)
At the same  time that people read wisdom into his simple words, Chauncy is fully  present and honest in the moment, and the other characters--to whom this is  foreign--treasure that, even while they completely miss that Chance is  totally clueless as to what's really going on (with one notable  exception).
The irony is that those people closest to Chauncy are led by  the meanings they insert to personal growth and transformation--even, in a  performance that won Melvyn Douglas a well-deserved Oscar, acceptance of  approaching death, as just another season in the eternal cycle of  life.
Other reviews I've read on Amazon villify the walking-on-water  scene, at the end of the movie; I believe they completely miss the point.  
Chance has, by chance, walked out on a stone quay in the lake, and  doesn't even know that he should be drowning. He slowly bends over,  inserting his umbrella into the water, and looks at it with some  puzzlement; he is once again demonstrating that his total innocence is  protected--and he gives the audience the experience that the characters in  the movie have, namely, to read into this enigma of a film whatever meaning  they choose to see.