I haven't viewed the DVD, so I can't address the DVD quality, only the film itself.

This 1946 film tries very hard to be great but doesn't quite succeed, though it is worth seeing and is outstanding in many ways.

Edward G Robinson is the indefatigable Nazi hunter and Orson Wells is the Nazi mastermind Franz Kindler who immediately after World War II somehow manages to slip into a history professorship under the false name Charles Rankin in a small Connecticut town and marry the daughter of a Supreme Court justice.  Both give excellent performances.  I wasn't impressed with Loretta Young's performance, but she isn't one of my favorite actresses of the period anyway.

Orson Wells as the director does a magnificent job of playing with shadows in this black-and-white film to convey a sense of mystery that would be much harder with color, but the music is often just too flamboyant and too often draws too much attention to itself.

I especially liked how we can see the net closing in on Nazi Kindler/Rankin.  We know from the start how the film is bound to end, but we feel suspense anyway, and we can see it in Kindler/Rankin's eyes as the net draws tighter around him.  This part of the film is brilliantly done.

I found the story itself however uneven at best, and often unconvincing.  For a man who as Franz Kindler was the evil genius behind Nazi Germany and who brilliantly pulled the wool over the eyes of good Connecticut Yankees, as Charles Rankin he doesn't appear all that bright, though I won't spoil it for you by revealing details. He just doesn't act like a genius mastermind.  The very final scene on the face of the clock in the clock tower - I won't reveal details - is beautiful and dramatic but also seemed overblown to me.  I would have liked it better if the rest of the film had been as good.

Overall I enjoyed this film and I recommend watching it, especially to anyone who enjoys black-and-white films of the era, but I found myself thinking too much about the flaws that kept it from being a really great film.