Garner Electrifies!

- The Baltimore Sun

A Sleek Action Adventure!

- Chicago Reader

Here you have the box reviews for Elektra. But let's face it. Everyone but the box seems to hate the movie. The question is will I?

Well, it came of to a pretty slow start. So far the only thing I can tell is she has a bit of an obsessive compulsive disorder. Even JG in a bikini wasn't making this part of the movie all that good.

The flashback dreams to when she is a kid seem to serve no purpose whatsoever. I have to give her props on her strength and endurance though. She's able to do one arm pull-ups, and I can't even do two of them with both arms.

We're now twenty-seven minutes into the movie and this is extremely slooooooowww... I thought this was supposed to be an action flick!

And the plot thickens! I now see the issue! I knew that sort of before it started but didn't really seem to care.

Okay, the first real action scene and it was pretty bland. Really short fight, a pair typical kung fu get your butt kicked loser dudes. Question is, when they disappeared into a plume of smoke, where did they go? They looked like real people to me. Another question is why would a bunch of Asians hire an American/Greek to learn their arts and try to take out someone? It makes no sense. I should point out I don't know the backstory behind Elektra, as to whether or not she debuted in DareDevil before spinning off into this.

Oooh, billiards! Best part of the movie so far! Well, the tattoo that flies was pretty cool.

Well, I just hit token funny part of action movie. Now a little bit later on, what I'm noticing in the thriller part is that the action is not even shown because of the rating of the movie (PG-13)

Well, it's a wonder we had the girl-on-girl kiss in a movie like this. Oh well, it so far hasn't even been enough to make this a decent movie so far.

I have issues with the dojo. Why would a blind white guy run a martial arts instruction school? He likes to speak like a proper English speaking Yoda as well. We learn that it was all a plot to get the kid into the school. Kirsten Prout looks like she could play a younger Jennifer Garner, which quiite possibly could be what they're going for here. I really don't think it's a subtlety.

Okay, these flashbacks to when she was a kid are really getting annoying. They better actually serve a purpose or this will prove to be a pointless waste.

Ooh, battle scene. Double sai vs. double katana. I wonder how many takes it took to get all the sheets to fall and not hit the main bad guy. Wow. Gotta love a guy whose tattoos can come to life.

Oooh, I know what it is! They're all vampires! They disappear when you kill them. Eh, maybe not.

And... movie over. Not even Jennifer Garner in red leather could make this one good. I'm certainly glad it was only a rental. They could have done more action scenes and supply us with a little more backstory other than "she died in Daredevil." People said Daredevil was crap, but I liked it, so I thought I might like this one. I didn't. I don't even want to waste my time with the special features. The only one that looks good is the "sneak peek at the return of TV's 'Family Guy' and new series 'American Dad.'" Just previews for the show. Alright. I have checked out the soundtrack, and I do like that, but that's a different review.