Worth watching?  Absolutely.
A mind-twister?  Sure.
Does it stand up to the test of scrutiny? Nope.

(WARNING: This review is for viewers who have already seen the movie.)

The problem with a VERY clever movie, is that it attracts viewers who are determined to figure it out.  Therefore, the script-writer must be smarter and more careful than your average gum-snapping teen.

The big problems here are that our anti-hero plans every detail of "getting away with murder," except a few MAJOR details.

The entire plan will not work unless the detective-lover-guy reacts to the murderer's callousness by leaping at him and wrestling him to the floor.  Without this, there can be no calculated switching of the same-make guns.  Get it?

Also, the entire plan will not work if his wife had AT ANY TIME told detective-lover-guy where she lived or her last name.  Ooops!  And what if he was off-duty, or not called to the scene, or another hotshot cop went in first.  Ooops, the whole plan fails.

(Just for fun, I'd love to know why the elaborate part was included, of murderer shooting through some windows.  ??? )

Worse than these gambles, is the HUGE and ridiculous linchpin problem of detective-lover-guy NEVER realizing that maybe, just maybe, since he has the EXACT same gun, and no one can find the actual murder weapon, that just maybe he should have his checked.  Once he does that, the whole plan is foiled, and hey, no need to blow your head off.

At the end, it was almost comical that our hero prosecutor's plan depended on murderer thinking they were alone (thus, no witnesses to hear the cliche confession).  Yet, as soon as prosecutor opens the door, the whole yard is swarming with cops, with their police radios doing their noisy cliche thing.  Come on, script-writer, stay clever and real to the end.  Don't get tired of being sharp.  Your viewers expected a full ride.

Aside from these jabs -- the acting, camera work, characters and pace were all excellent.  A few times, lines were spoken so softly I had to playback and turn up.  The blonde love-interest was interesting, but kind of dropped without tying it up for us.  Shoot, I thought we were going to find out she was the private investigator who sold her services to a rich murderer.

Hey, gimme that script before you hurt yourself!