I went to go see this movie in theaters the night it came out because I thought that the first Saw was really good. I was just hoping that the directors, writers, and producers were not just putting out some crap sequal so that people would see it. (You know, one with no plot, bad acting, and that is very predictible) However I was very, very, very pleased with this sequal. I enjoyed this movie just as much (if not more) than the origional. (And with all of the sequals that I've seen I have never been able to say that before) I felt as if the plot was pretty average (parents get divorced, the kid turns into a punk because of it, and he and his dad fight over it) However, as the story goes along, I realised something. In all of the movies that I have seen with that sort of storyline, this one was VERY different. So the plot gets an A+ in my book even though it is not that origional. Now what is origional is all of the twists and turns that the storyline actually go through. The ending totally blew my mind. I had no idea that was going to happen. (Don't worry I wont spoil it) Now some people are saying on here that this movie did not live up to the first one. I could not disagree more. If you were to take all of the acting, twists, gore, and even the death traps, then multiply them by 100 this is exactally what you would get. Plus, I mean how many horror movies have you seen that were this thought out? I say that because about 99.9% of horror movies that have been released recentaly have been just crap. Most of which I went to go see in theaters, and felt as if I had got screwed out of the money that I used to pay for the ticket. Mostly due to the fact that either the commercial was very diceiving, bad acting, or it was just some stupid college movie slasher. Either that or I felt like I could have crapped out a better idea for a movie. (Officially known as that turd of a movie titled "Hostle") Anyway, what I am trying to say is that for a horror movie (or for any type of movie out there) this movie has it all. Great acting, great storyline, great gore special effects, awesome villian, and one of the best endings I have ever seen in my life and in any movie. So, go out on February 14 (unless they change the date that has been anounced) and buy this DVD!!! I greatly recommend it and you will not be disappointed!