Gungrave is one of those rare jems in Japanese anime.  It is a stylish show for mature audiences with complex characters, an intriguing storyline, stunning visuals, great music, and superbly directed action sequences.  The story follows the lives of two young men, Brandon Heat and Harry MacDowell. Both are orphans who have formed a strong bond with one another since they have known each other since childhood. Even though they are close friends they are total opposites.  Brandon is a shy, introvert, who barely speaks, a tough fighter, and the kind of guy who is highly devoted to the well being of his friends.  Harry on the other hand is an extrovert, a natural leader, a great communicator, good with women, a thinker, and a little selfish.

They spend their youth content to not have a steady-legit job in a dangerous, crime riddle city.  They survive through their involvement in petty gang activities and through coning people.  Their simple, wasted youth comes to an abrupt and deadly end when a member of a rival gang seeks to exact revenge against them by involving his older, mafia brother "Mad Dog" Ladd Carabel into the conflict that he his having with Harry and Brandon's gang.  Mad Dog decides the best way to restore his family's honor is to kill Brandon, Harry, and their gang.  He succeeds in killing off all the members of their gang and prepares to kill Brandon and Harry.  Just when it looks like their meaningless lives will come to an end they are aided by a members of another crime syndicate known as Millenion.

It is at this time that both Harry and Brandon's lives head in a new direction.  Harry becomes obsessed with obtaining the power that Millenion has and desire to take it.  Brandon on the other hand desires to not be separated from his best friend Harry and to locate Maria who is a shy blonde girl that he has affection for who has unknowingly become involved with the Millenion organization.

While in the organization both young men lose the last bit of their youthful innocence and Brandon's goals shift.  Brandon becomes a hitman for the organization.  He also establishes a good relationship with the head of the organization "Big Daddy" who feels that Brandon is a good guy and that he reminds him a lot of himself when he was younger.  The two develop a father son relationship.  As a result of meeting Big Daddy Brandon becomes a devoted member of the Millenion crime organization.  He wishes to use the organization for the reason that Big Daddy created it and that is to protect is loved ones:  Harry, Big Daddy, and Maria.  However Brandon's simple goal will prove harder to accomplish than it sounds.

On the other hand Harry remains obsessed with obtaining the power that Millenion has. As he advances in the organization he aims for higher and higher positions of power and uses any method to get there.  This naturally leads him to break the organization's Code of Iron (which is never to betray the organization or its members) repeatedly even though the penalty for breaking Millenion's Code of Iron is death. As the years past the only position of power that remains for Harry is "Big Daddy's" spot as the head of the organization.

Naturally Harry's ambition leads to conflict between the two men.  This conflict takes a deadly twist.  Soon Brandon finds himself on the receiving end of a several bullet shots from his best friend.

Fast-forward 13 years and a necrolized Brandon finds himself awakened from his slumber by a young girl who bears a striking resemblance to Maria who is being targeted by a Harry (now known as "Bloody Harry" for his ruthlessness) controlled Millenion for death.  He also wakens in a far darker and dangerous place than the world that he once knew.  It is a world where all of his former friends and allies are now his enemies.  The events that happen from this point on surprisingly do not follow the generic ones that typically happen in an action-orientated betrayal type story.  What you get instead is something far more effective and refreshing.  I highly recommend watching this show.  You won't be disappointed.