As someone who has read Sartre and other investigations into philosophy and the meaningness of society, the self described intellectual romp television previews of this movie had me anticipating the DVD release. I was curious to discover if the movie lived up to the expectations. Are these investigators really going to explore man's interpretation of our existence? The fact that these investigators are played by Lily Tomlin and Dustin Hoffman, two actors that I enjoy watching, didn't inhibit my interest either. If you are well read on the subjects played out in the movie, you might feel as though the variables are exhibited as two opposing extremes, with no room for any grey area's in-between or any possibilities that reside outside of the boxes. And you might feel teased that once these two established options are portrayed that the plot seems to be repeating itself without further exploration, without delving into why we assume these dichotomies, what the historical references are, or any new suggestions for these quandaries. Except of course for the end, which apparently is supposed to be some sort of epiphany, but ends up being a rather predictable and disappointing resolution. Bear in mind that I do come from a scientific perspective, meaning I don't necessarily examine our questioning as a form of destiny or fate that needs to be discovered, but rather as how our own minds have a hard wired drive to find one. I am fascinated with understanding functional neurology and exactly how the brain's physiology fires off these philosophical neurons. I do admire the production of this movie, and for the mainstream audience it might be thoughtful enough, and you will think about it for a day or two, or three which is more than I can say for a lot of movies. I do think that they might of held back when this movie was in development, perhaps there should be two versions, this one that brings up the ideas, and a second that assumes we can handle more. In spite of all of this, I did enjoy it, even if I was waiting for something bigger to happen, I would still recommend it, and I will watch it again.