Though English is not my native language (so I apologize in advance for any mistakes you find in this review), I watched the movie on DVD with original English soundtrack and without subtitles.

This is one very good movie.

Acting is just perfect and very realistic. I do like that there are many silent scenes in the movie when you can still clearly understand what each of the kids thinks and feels only by their looks.

There are two characters I like most: Clyde and Marty.

My personal favorite is Clyde, perfectly played by Ryan Kelley. I like that he is sensitive and actually able to enjoy simple things like "smells of the airs". I like that he "never does anything to anybody", because there's mostly no point in doing so. He has the most common sense of all of them and approaches situations in the most intelligent way. My opinion is that he was the one who understood George more than others.

I wish there were more movies with Ryan Kelley.

And the "very male" by looks and character Marty is perfectly performed by Scott Mechlowicz. Being the man who "follows thru his plans", no matter if they make any sense or not, a man who'd rather watch TV than enjoy a boat trip, he is in contrast with Clyde.

I think the movie has several morals, not only that each medal has two sides. Humans are egoists by their nature and they usually don't even want to try to understand what other person may feel or why he does what he does. We just go all judgmental; the easiest way is always to blame and hate as it involves less work to do. The movie also shows what our bad intensions can lead us too, how things can get out of control.

Some attention is also paid to common "issues" of that age connected with sexuality. There's always somebody high school or college called a "faggot" no matter if he actually is or isn't homosexual. Mostly, in such environments, being a sensitive non-smoking skinny teenager is enough to be considered a faggot. Here, we have a boy with two fathers to make the situation more convincing. Other small scenes like the way Millie and Sam's friendship is shown or dialogs between Marty and Kile also make sense.

To summarize: it's very sad. I could feel tears growing while I was watching it. This one is definitely worth a watch.

PS: It's a pity the movie is not rated for people under age of 18. I guess this is because of lots of "f- words" used and the beer-drinking-weed-smoking factor. Anyways, to my mind it won't do much (or any) harm to a bit younger audience.