Now, it's no secret the DC original animated movies have been a mixed bag.  "New Frontier" was genuinely excellent, "Superman/Batman" was very fun and watchable... but unmistakeably a big, dumb, action movie, Wonder Woman and Green Lantern were decent if unremarkable, and Death of Superman and Gotham Knight... well, they were better than Marvel's Ultimate Avengers, anyway. I knew this one wouldn't be on "New Frontier's" level, I hoped it would be on the "Superman/Batman," but I suspected it would be on level of "Green Lantern."

And it seems I'd set the bar too high.

The art (with the odd exception of Batman's coloration) is crisp and fluid, the voice acting, however, is a mixed bag.  Characters that weren't stunt-casted (like the Flash or Wonder Woman) are the standouts while Mark Harmon's Superman (and oddly Billy Baldwin's Batman) merely sound old.  I'm always in favor of bringing in new voice actors for these characters, but how is it that no one realized in the course of production that Chris Noth (here playing Lex Luthor) could have done a better job as either hero.  The biggest problem, though, is the writing.

Dwayne McDuffie is a talented writer, but he's always had problems with the Justice League's moral code: his Superman more practical at the expense of the character's trademark morality, and while his Superman states that the Justice League doesn't kill, at least three members of the League certainly seem to trying to kill people throughout the course of the film.

As for the plot, it's nothing that hasn't been done before: the Justice League crosses into the evil Anti-Matter Universe to fight their evil twins (none of whom are given a back-story beyond their often-ridiculous mobster accents) and save the alternate world.  Anyone who knows the comics has seen it done many time before (McDuffie himself did it better in Justice League: the Animated Series) and the only thing this version adds is a bomb shaped like a giant Easter egg for Evil Batman (Owlman) to putter with.  The casual fan might get something out of Superman beating up the Evil Superman... but this movie isn't for the casual fan, a fact made more than evident by barrage of needless cameos (although it was cute giving Captain Marvel a Spock beard), while the lead villains are just sort of... there (except Gina Torres, who gets more screen-time then any other villain combined).  The dichotomy between the characters is explored in exactly one scene... and that was by in large the best scene in the movie.  The movie's other great crime, of course, is to repeatedly remind us there are an infinite number of worlds in the Multiverse... and never show us any of them.  I would have killed to see Vampire World or Kamandi World by the end of this... if only because the world I was stuck with seemed so boring.  I honestly went into this wanting to enjoy this, but by the time the credits rolled, I realized I was actually angry at a cartoon for the first time in my life... there's so much potential and it's never even tapped.

In the end, the best version of this story is still Grant Morrison and Frank Quitely's  <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1563896311">JLA: Earth 2</a> , which actually examines the issues and moral implications of the JLA interfering with another world's infrastructure while simultaneously having better action, better characterization, and vastly better art, or if just want a fun cartoon movie about Batman and Superman blowing stuff up, this one delivers much better <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0027FG2CG">Superman/Batman: Public Enemies (Two-Disc Special Edition)</a>.