Originally only available to customers of Best Buy when released, this package is now available to the masses. With four distinct and discrete DVD offerings, this is a fine collection that approaches a retrospective of Sir Elton's expansive and amazing career.
The audio quality of this package is really great, with Dolby 5.1 surround sound. But, as good as the sound quality, it's the variety and the auspicious offering of two of the concerts that makes this a DVD that approaches "Must Have" stature. The first disc is a brilliantly staged and filmed concert at New York City's Madison Square Garden. It's clear that this is a place that Elton enjoys playing. He is intimate with the audience and his band is in rare and fine form for this evening. From the opening song, the epic "Funeral For A Friend/Love Lies Bleeding" through the final encore "Don't Go Breaking My Heart" (A duet with Kiki Dee), this night is one of memorable performances. This concert alone would make this package worth the price, with unforgettable renditions of "Candle In The Wind", "Tiny Dancer", "Don't Let The Sun Go Down On Me" and other hits.
DVD 2 features Elton on the other side of the pond in a breathtaking performance from The Royal Opera House, replete with students from London's Royal Academy of Music Orchestra and Choir. Elton rises to the occasion with absolutely stunning performances worthy of a Royal audience with so many talented musicians on stage. With the orchestral arrangements to embellish the performances with astonishing brilliance, you will find your soul soaring. As Elton and Band and the assembled Academy musicians and singers blow you away on "Sixty Years On", "Burn Down The Mission", "Saturday Night's Alright For Fighting" and more, you won't believe the video quality. This disc too, would make this collection worth adding to your repertoire of concert DVDs, but there is more.
DVD 3 offers you a glimpse of Elton performing without the benefit of a backing band and his usual wall of sound. This is the most intimate of the discs, and the setting is lovely and it adds a nice rounding out of the package.
DVD 4 is the retrospective piece, and offers video and audio footage from four decades, from the 70s to the current day. I found this disc to be a bit quirky and it didn't work well in some of my DVD players from time to time, but a real collector's piece. I particularly enjoyed the inclusion of "Mona Lisas And Mad Hatters" and "Empty Garden".
If you're a lifelong fan of Elton John and his various Bands, you really should own this collection. The first two discs make the purchase well worth it, and the extras on discs 3 and 4 are just gravy. Great video quality and audio quality combined with unbelieveable musicianship make this a "Must Have"....