This "movie" is a tedious, cynical, obvious, indecisive complete waste of time, effort ... any resources expended, by anyone concerned.  Especially YOU, the consumer, who may be thinking of plunking down even $10 for this pile of barely tepid fertilizer.  Don't.  Please don't.  You'll enjoy your waste of money more if you just take it out back and set it on fire.  At least you'll have something a great deal more compelling to watch.

I don't know exactly what to make of the people who score this so high, and lord it over everyone else, saying it's a 'thinking' movie, not so infused with teen slasher gore, etc.  Would that it were; at least 10 minutes of it might have been watchable.  This movie is confused, confusing, non-linear, consumed with itself, and absolutely lost.

This follows a narrative of a only-retroactively-seen allegedly drowned teen female, whose age is given as 14.  (If this girl is 14, then I'm 8.)  And it gets more confused, unbelievable, and self-destructive from there.  At about an hour into the tedium, it's suddenly "revealed" that the girl's brother has been faking the "ghost" image photography.  Shortly afterward, a "fiendish twist" is introduced, in that this 14-year-old has filmed several menage-a-trois with a couple for whom she'd been babysitting.  I didn't catch the origin of this snarky couple, or where they vanished -- but the "fiendish twist" is displayed about 15 minutes, then abandoned/forgotten.  For the all-stops-pulled horrifying finale, the girl reveals through retro footage from some barren wasteland (the titular dry "lake") that she's been haunted all this time by -- herself.

You know, herself.  In the future.  Or something.

The one slightly disquieting composite moment comes early-ish in the movie when we are shown two shots of a drowned, dessicated corpse.  These shots are repeated at various times throughout, as I suppose reminders that we are to be scared.  Witless.  Wit.  Less.  Which is what I am for investing in this dog, wasting 75 minutes watching, and even the time I lost spent furiously jamming it back into its box.  Please, please, please -- all of rational humanity joins me in begging you:  Do NOT make the same mistake I did.