"Formulated"......"Predictable"......"Unoriginal"  These are all words you may have heard to describe this film, and I wouldn't argue any of them. Let me tell you though, you could also describe this film as "fun"..."energetic"...and "factual".

  The basis of the story is simple. The Belushi-influenced Jack Black plays Musician/loser Dewey Finn. Dewey just got kicked out of his band for being too maniacal and unpredictable, and he's about to be kicked out of his best friend Ned's apartment for being a lazy freeloader. It just so happens that Ned is a substitute teacher, and when Ned gets a call for some work, Dewey answers the phone and accepts the job for himself. Being the furthest thing from a teacher, he tells his class to have recess all day, and teaches his kids about "the man". As he feverishly refers to all authority as "the man", he says "There used to be a way to stick it to 'the man', but 'the man' ruined that too with MTV!" Then he sees his kids in their music class. He has a classically trained guitarist, a classically trained pianist, a percussionist, and a cello player in his midst, and he then gets an idea. He wants music class all day instead of recess. He teaches his guitarist to play classics like "Iron Man", "Smoke On The Water", and "Highway To Hell". He tells his piano player to play The Doors "Touch Me". He absurdly convinces his cellist that the cello is the exact same thing as a bass guitar when it's tipped on its side. Dewey has plans to enter the Battle Of The Bands contest and win some rent money, and he's going to do it with these kids.
  Yes, it is predictable. It is also a similar plot to many other teen comedies of the past. The biggest difference between this film and its predecessors, is its intensity and accurate rock knowledge savvy. Jack Black is a power load as Dewey, a real high voltage entity here.  As he states in the film, "Rock is about the passion", and his passion and knowledge of rock is so eminent throughout the film. He makes the difference in this film. You just want to stand up and cheer as he hands his keyboard player Yes, and tells him to listen to the solo on "Roundabout". He eloquently informs the timid pianist that the solo will "blow the classical music out your butt". He continues with his drummer, by telling him to listen to Rush - "2112", and informs him that Neil Peart is one of the greatest drummers of all time...."study up". For his guitarist he has Hendrix's "Axis: Bold As Love", and for his backup singer he assigns a listen to "Dark Side Of The Moon"'s vocal solo on "Great Gig In The Sky".  I couldn't have done it better myself.
  Great moments just fill the time here. When Black asks the class "What's Rock all about?", he gets answers like "scoring chicks" and "getting wasted", both of which he replied an emphatic "NO!" to. He then gets the answer he was looking for, and that's "sticking it to the man". Rock is about breaking the rules, and standing up to "the man". Nice work, Mr. Black.
  Early in the movie he asks the kids about their knowledge of legendary bands such as Led Zeppelin. They all look dumbfounded, and have no clue what language he's speaking. He continues to spit forth names, "....Sabbath......AC/DC........MOTORHEAD!!!!!", all of which are foreign to these kids. This is the point where he establishes time slots for teaching "Rock appreciation" and "Rock theory" classes. This is great stuff.

  If you want to see a factual, fun, and light hearted movie with some great Rock 'N' Roll.......go rent, or better yet, buy this one.

For more Dr. (...)