First, I've read the reviews re: poor sound quality. There is a note toward the bottom of the liner, saying that if you experience any gaps in the narration to switch to the Mono sound track and everything will come through clear. This is followed by a stern warning to not adjust your Babel Fish!

Yes the production quality was poor. Yes the special effects were, also, laugh-out-loud poor. But look at the material. Only Douglas Adams could take something as macabre as the Earth being blown up and turn it into a joke!

His type of humor falls into a niche very few people will understand. Those of us who DO understand his humor find amongst ourselves a sence of community. We are the people who smile and nod at each other while clutching our towels while standing in line to buy movie tickets to the long-awaited screen adaptation of The Guide.

I was not at all dissapointed in the product I recieved because I read the description several times over to make sure what I was getting. I was never under the impression that I would be recieving full-length radio shows as special features. I was pleasantly surprised that the purist in me could occassionally switch to the Mono sound track at will. And I was overjoyed at the biography/tribute I was told I would get to watch! So I urge you to read the product descriptions of everything before you buy it, unless you wish to be (pleasantly or horrificlly) surprised when you unwrap it 6-8 days later.

Now on to the matter of certain inconsistencies. As anyone who owns "The Ultimate Hitchhiker's Guide" knows from reading the introduction by Adams, No two tellings of the story are identical. They all contradict each other! Even some of the books contradict each other and one of the books even contradicts itself. This is all part of Adams' wacky zany humor.

The screenplay was great and I can't wait for it to finally arrive on DVD. There is a part of me that wishes for a sequel, but I know that if anyone but Douglas Adams writes it, it won't be the same. It would turn out to be simply an adaptation of one (or an amalgam of several) of the books and would lack his wit and originality. So to Douglas I raise my Pan-Galactic Gargle Blaster and say, "So long and thanks for all the laughs."