First off, the movie is in 2.35:1.  There has been some discussion as to this point, with several people wondering about the initial disclosure that the movie would be released in 1.77:1.  2.35:1 is the original aspect ratio that was seen during the movie's initial theatrical release.  All of the italian actors are dubbed, after all, Sergio Leone is italian and the movie was shot in Italy except for the scenes on the road leading to a local "watering hole".  These scenes were shot in Arizona's Monument Valley.  I have seen every John Ford movie made and recognize every one of the rock formations that Ford so beautifully shot in his western trilogy:  Fort Apache, She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, and The Searchers.  I won't go into too much depth as to the plot other than to say the movie is certainly an allegory on good vs. evil, revenge, and certainly the ending of the western "horse culture" giving way to "the Iron Horse".  I have already mentioned three of John Ford's masterpieces that also happen to be on numerous people's greatest Westerns of all time, as they are certainly on mine.  Before I bought the OUATITW dvd, I would have said that for me, Ford's and John Wayne's "The Searchers" was the greatest western of all time (it was John Wayne's favorite), and it still may be.  But after seeing "Once Upon a Time..." on dvd with its brilliant remastering of sight and sound and seeing it in its full aspect ratio, I could be persuaded that "Once Upon a Time..." could have usurpted the title from "The Searchers".  But whether "Once Upon a Time..." is number one, two, or seven on the greatest list, it is most assuredly on the list.  "Once Upon a Time..." did not even receive a nomination for Best Picture when it came out, much less receive the award, but that travesty was due to Hollywood politics at the time and had nothing to do with the greatness of "Once Upon a Time...".  The musical score by Ennio Morricone has got to be THE GREATEST score for any movie ever made.  Better than "The Magnificent Seven", better than "Dances With Wolves", and better than another Leone/Morricone collaberation, "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly".  The music is haunting, truly.  And if that weren't enough, all of the major characters have their own musical riffs that introduce them and follow them throughout the movie whenever they are the focal point of a scene.  Very clever and rarely seen.  I know that I said at the outset that I was not going to talk much about the movie, and here I've gone and done exactly that.  This review was to concentrate on the absolute perfection of the dvd itself, and I do mean perfection.  Besides the aspect ratio and musical score, the remastering of the images defies belief.  It's like looking through air in real life.  You can see the pores in the faces.  I have never seen a more pristine dvd ever, and I've got at least 1,000 of them.  Utterly flawless!  (P.S. Alot of movie goers have seen at least one or more of Sergio Leone's movies, but few have ever seen the man.  He did keep a low profile.  But if you would like to see him, get his also brilliant "Once Upon a Time in America".  He is the ticket seller who sells Robert DeNiro a bus ticket out of town.  This man is truly one of the greatest directors of all time.)