We need more extras, behind the scenes and audio commentaries for these classics!  Raiders of the Lost Ark (and it's called just that "Raiders of the Lost Ark", not 'Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark' - ridiculous marketing idea) is still one of the greatest movies ever made.  Temple of Doom, contrary to the blurb written in the description, is the 2nd best movie of the series.  No, Indy wasn't battling Nazis and he didn't need to.  It followed the same path as the first movie - tribute to the serials of the 1940's, it was a prequel, so it's totally fine that he was with a different girl and had a sidekick, and for the most part, the movie took itself as seriously as the first one did.  It was adventurous and bold and entertaining and had beautiful locations.  The third movie was good and had some great elements to it (like Sean Connery as his father, River Phoenix as young Indy - even with bad hair), but overall the movie became hoakie.  Think about Sala and Marcus.  In the first movie, Sala was the serious and devoted friend.  In Last Crusade, he and Marcus were comic relief, joking around and being silly - way out of character for both.  And most of the action scenes with Indy contained wisecracks for the audience, something that was never done in Raiders.  Think of the truck scene in Raiders and any of the other action scenes - there was a sense of urgency and possible doom if he failed, but in Last Crusade you always knew he would be fine because there was an element of comedy there.  In the first and second movies you are clutching your seat and hoping everything turns out okay.  In Last Crusade, you're watching and laughing, with drink in hand just going along for the ride.  The 4th movie had very few great moments - Lucas, Spielberg and Ford waited for years for just the right script and couldn't do any better?  Bringing Marion back was awesome and Ford was fun to watch.  Even Shia is a good addition as Indy's son, but the plotline, action scenes (Shia swinging with the monkeys?!) and the pacing left much to be desired.  Let's hope the next one is worlds better, is less hoakie and takes itself as seriously as the first did...