HOWARD STERN has recently left the FM airwaves to go into a multi million dollar SERIUS gig. Whatever. I can't afford to listen. I'm here to talk about this movie PRIVATE PARTS. This movie was on TV last night, and though it was heavily edited, it was just what I needed to watch.

The story that is told here is one about doing what you feel is necessary, no matter who, or what force tries to cut you down. The movie is important for this reason. Sometimes we forget we are right, when EVERYBODY tells us we are wrong! The message is to keep fighting for what you believe in. If the results of your struggle are hillarious, well then thats an added bonus.

Theres more happening for this movie than just STERNs potty humor, so don't let the leading role deter you. Although there is a bit (heh heh) for good measure. (Lots of boobs)

The supporting roles are all great, Mary Mcormack as his wife, Robin Quivers, and Fred Norris as themselves (and Jackie The Joke Man, who is GREAT for the five minutes he's in the movie). Then Paul Giamatti, who plays Pig Vomit. He's a great comic actor, but you have to hate him in this one, his character anyway. Without that animosity towards him, this movie would never have worked as good as it did. "W-eeeeN-Bee-Ceee"

So, enough said, heres the basic gist of this thing. Howard Stern grows up an awkward kid, eventually he breaks into radio but struggles for a while, until he gets big on a D.C radio station, and then gets picked up by the big boys at NBC. Here is where the major conflicts arise between Stern and Pig Vomit. Pig Vomit wants to make him sorry he ever took the job at NBC, and really wants him to quit (The station can't fire him because of breach to the contract.) The war begins and ends, I won't tell you how. You can probably guess. AC/DC joins him on stage at the end and ROCKS Central Park! Thats just the icing on the cake right there.

This movie will make you laugh even if you don't like Howard. It will probably soften you up to him if you are a straight out hater. I personally always found him funny at times, and at times sort of dumb... but the movie is pretty rad.