WARNING: REALITY CHECK ALERT

I've know for the past 15 years that "Northern Exposure" has a very loyal and dedicate following, but it wasn't until reading some of these reviews that I realized how dense and how far out in La-La land some of them really are.

Music licensing fees are a fact of life and they are here to stay.  Deal.  Yes, there are some "Northern Exposure" fans who would happily pay one hundred, two hundred dollars and maybe even more, for a full season set with all original music restored but you know what?  There aren't ENOUGH of them to make such a package cost effective and profitable for Universal who, again REALITY CHECK, are releasing these sets for one purpose and one purpose only -- TO MAKE A PROFIT.  Even issuing two separate sets will not aid in this goal.

Even if somehow they could restore all original music and price the sets at a reasonable level to sell enough copies to be worth their while there is also the distinct possibility that some of the artists and copyright holders of some songs have simply said NO.  No, they won't sell the rights to their songs at ANY price.  What else can Universal do?  Would you rather have nothing rather than having at least something?

Get over the box design.  Sheesh.  People complained endlessly about the parkas and the case design for the first two seasons.  It appears that Universal took heed and redesigned the set for the third season.  So what are people doing now?  Complaining about the redesigned package for the third season, that the missing parka and about how this set will look different on the shelf next to the first two seasons.  Whine, whine, whine.  Gripe, gripe, gripe.  Man can some people ever pick.

"Northern Exposure" unquestionably represents some of the best programing commercial television has ever had to offer.  But there are many televisions show (late 70's/early 80's sitcom "WKRP in Cincinnati" springs to mind) that may NEVER see a DVD release simply due to the fact the music licensing will make such a release cost prohibitive.  I am grateful that "Northern Exposure" is finding its way to DVD even if some compromises need to be made in the process.  This isn't genocide or world hunger people.  It is television entertainment.  Let's keep a little perspective.