A Christmas Carol became a huge hit almost as soon as Dickens wrote it and has remained a classic ever since. Is there any movie that has been remade so many times and in so many ways? From more recent versions with George C Scott, or even more recent with Patrick Stewart to children's version with the Muppets or even Mr. Magoo to musicals to other derivative versions like Scrooged and American Christmas Carol, few stories are as enduring as that of the curmudgeonly Scrooge and his ghostly visitations. This surely is one of the best of the traditional movie versions. Alastair Sim is absolutely believable as Scrooge, from beginning to the very end, hitting all the right emotional notes along the way. Getting to play the restored B&W version on my large widescreen TV is truly a delight, one can really get immersed in the story and the wonderful acting without grainy old images and crackling sound track getting in the way. Being able to listen to an audio commentary on a 50+ year old movie was certainly extraordinary! I've always been a fan of commentaries and it's amazing the recollections that they provided us with. An additional track for the blind is certainly an interesting, and I'm sure for visually impaired people, a very welcome addition.

Going to the second disk, we have the often lamented colorized version. While like most I do prefer the original B&W I do often enjoy watching colorized movies once in awhile. My grandfather often colorized photos and many of my favorite photos of my mother are ones that he colored and watching old colorized movies somewhat reminds me of them. The additional features and interviews on this disk have some interest....the before & after on the restoration is kind of neat. I think I will enjoy the interviews more in the future, they became a little much after already being through the audio commentary on the movie. Getting another edition of "Christmas Carol" was a neat bonus, but would have been much nicer if that movie had been restored as well.

Overall, this is a truly wonderful movie, well worth the purchase price, and full of wonderful features and bonuses that will surely be enjoyed for years to come.