"The Mission" occurs during the colonial era in South America in a disputed area between Argentina, Brazil, and Paraguay. The movie focuses on the terrible situation of the indigenous people of the area during this time period.
  The movie follows two men, father Gabriel (Jeremy Irons), and an ex-mercenary named Rodrigo Mendoza (Robert De Niro). Together the two of them are fighting to protect the missions of the region as well as the souls (and the bodies) of the indigenous people who reside in the missions.
  The central problem of the movie is based on historical fact. At this time, the area is being disputed between Spain and Portugal. The kings of the two countries have decided that the region, which previously belonged to Spain, should now belong to Portugal. The problem comes in that when the land transfers to Portugal, the Portuguese will dissolve all of the missions and make the indians into slaves. However, in order for Portugal to legally own the land, the Catholic Church must o.k. the exchange. The objective of Father Gabriel and Mendoza, then, is to convince the church not to allow the exchange of land.
  The two main characters are well portrayed by Irons and De Niro. The interaction between the two characters also adds an interesting element to their attempt to help the native people. De Niro's character Mendoza is a mercenary who captured and sold indians into slavery for the Portugese until he is convinced by Father Gabriel to help the very people he persecuted and become a Jesuit priest.
  This is a very good movie. It shows the terrible status of the native people of the area during the colonial era quite convincingly. The movie brings into question the best way to protect and help the native people, not only during the time period of the movie, but for today as well.
  The movie is also worth seeing for the incredible natural beauty of the sets. Much of the movie takes plaze above the famous waterfalls at Iguazu in Argentina. The thing I liked best about the movie was the incredible soundtrack, that featured haunting melodies, as well as actual choir music from the Baroque period, which is historically accurate to the time period.