First of all, let me get the comparisons with 'Sixth Sense' out of the way. Has to be done though because even the Director of 'Echoes' - David Koepp (in the DVD commentary add on) makes a indirect (and complimentary) reference to that earlier released movie when he talks about the cold breathe effects used by the director of 'Sixth Sense' - M. Night Shyamalan. To me the titles of the movies could have been exchanged as 'Echoes' plot relies  centrally on the development of this 'sixth sense' by Tom Witzky allowing him to see and hear the afterlife.
Back to the present life now and this good movie. Tom (Kevin Bacon), a telephone lineman and his wife Maggie (Kathryn Erbe) are trying to make ends meet, improve the life they share with son Jake (Zachary David Cope) and hold onto their dreams. Tom still wants to be a rock musician but is coming to the realization that mid life responsibilities bring "I never wanted to be famous. I just never expected to be so... "What?" Maggie asks. ..."I don't know. ordinary" Suburban life in America for most of us huh? Not quite. The old adage of being careful of what you wish for applies here. On a drunken dare, with his sister-in-law, Tom states that he can't be hypnotized. She tries, and he is. 
If the idea of hypnosis allowing you to perceive another reality is really bothersome to you then switch off. That is the central theme of the movie and is what the plot depends on. It's not overly done though and there is no 'message' attached, it's just the vehicle the movie uses to explore the underlying crime and the afterlife. The ghosts that come with it provide the horrific visions and clues that help Tom solve the mystery. 
Overall the movies plot holds together, the acting is excellent, the horror is subtle, not gory -but scary (Tom watching TV on the couch... being watched...brrr!). It's light on psychology of the afterlife and the disappointments of present-life. It's simply a good, scary thriller. 'Stir of Echoes' is only weak at the end with a pretty ordinary closure.