Futarama is the best new TV series. If you only watch "Simpsons", "Family Guy", or "King of the Hill" then what the heck is wrong with you. Futarma is so funny on so many different levels. They have so many guest stars like Pamlea Anderson, a couple Star Trek members, and the voice of Richard Nixon. The three disc collection contains episodes 1-13.

The show is about Fry (Phillp) who a loser pizza delivery boy that has nothing to live for. His girlfriend leaves him he always gets fake deliveries. He ends up getting frozen for 1000 years. He wakes up in December 31, 2999. He goes out nd meets a robot and ends up running into Leela which joins him for the rest of the show. Fry trys to find a reletive in the future. He finds Professor Farnsworth who is some 100 year old man which ends up being his nephew. He hires them as his delivery crew on go on all kinds of exciting and funny missions. Here is a list of the episodes and what there about:

Disc1
1.Space Pilot 3000
  After an accidental cryogenic freezing, Fry awakens at the dawn of the year 3000. With the help of his two new friends, a swearing robot, and a cute one-eyed alien named Leela, Fry defies his life assignment as a delivery boy. He tracks down his great-great-great-etc. nephew, Professoe Farnsworth, who hires the three to work for his intergalactic delivery service.

2.The Series Has Landed
  After delivering a pacgage to an amusement park on the moon, Fry shows Leela how to appreciate the celestial body. Meanwhile Bender finds a little robot romance with a farmer's daughters, which puts the whole crew in jeopardy.

3.I,Roommate
  Fry is such a slob that he is forced to move out of the Planet Express offices. But friendship makes for strange bedfellows when he moves in with Bender and discovers the nuts and bolts of living with a robot.

4.Love's Labours Lost In Space
  On a mission to save endangered animals from a collasping, lonely Leela meets legendary starship captain Zapp Brannigan - who (at least in his own own opinion) is the universe's greatest ladies man.

Disc 2
5.Fear Of A Bot Planet
  While delvering a package to a planet inhabited by robots, where humans are killed instantly, Bender becomes intoxicated with the robot lifestyles and must choose between becoming a celebrity of sorts or saving his friend's lives.

6.A Fishful Of Dollars
  Fry discovers he's a billionaire because his savings have been accruing interest for 1,000 years. Caught up in the excitement of his riches, he squanders his fortune to buy an unopened can of anchovies - extinct since the year 2200. What he doesn't realize is that Mom, the head of mega-conglomerate, will do anything - even use Pamela Anderson's head in  a jar - to get her hands on those anchovies.

7.My Three Suns
  The crew visits a planet inhabited by liquid aliens. Fry, after delivering a package under the scorching heat of the planet's three suns, finds a bottle of cool blue liquid to quench his thrist. But when that liquid turns out to be the civilization's ruler. Fry finds he has become the new leader. Initially drunk withpower, he soon discovers his life is in danger and must turn to his friends to help him dry out.

8.A Big Piece Of Garbage
  A gigantic ball of garbage carelessly launched off earth in the 21st century returns on a collision course for NNYC and Fry and the crew set out on a mission to destroy it.

9.Hell Is Other Robots
  Bender puts his sinful lifestyle behind him when he joins the Temple of Robotolgy. But after returning to his old ways, he is banished to Robot Hell where, in a musical extravaganza, he faces the Robot Devil and endures tortures unimaginable to man.

Disc 3
10.A Flight To Remember
  Professor Farnsworth treats Planet Express crew to a vacation on the largest, most luxurious space cruise ship ever built - the Titanic. Once in space, love is in the air as Bender falls for a beautiful robot Countess and Fry dates both Leela and Amy. Captain Zapp Brannigan sets a course for adventure when he decides to steer the Titanic through a swarm of comets, or as calls them, "the icebergs of the sky."

11.Mars University
  When Fry returns to college to prove he can be just as good of a dropout as he was in the Twentieth Century, Professor Farnsworth surprises him with a dorm roommate, a super-intelligent monkey. Meanwhile Bender, a legend of the robot fraternity "ERR" leads a revenge of the robot nerds.

12.When Aliens Attack
  The Omicrons threaten to destroy the earth if they can't see the last episode of the lost 20th Century TV series "Single Female Lawyer" starring an unmarried human female, who wears very short miniskirts, struggling to succed in human man's world. Because the last episode was destroyed by someone spilling beer on the transmitter (Fry), the crew from Planet Express must deliver their version of single Female Lawyer.

13.Fry & The Slurm Factory
  Fry opens a "Slurm" beverage container bearing the golden bottle cap and wins a tour of the "Slurm" Factory (a la "Willy Wonka") to see how the world's most deliciously addictive soft drink is made. Wandering off from the tour, Fry is horrified when he accidently discovers the top-secret ingredient that makes "Slurm" so impossible to resist.