I don't usually give one-star reviews...this is the first and probably only time I will do so.  I saw this "film" when it came out, at the theater, and the anger and disgust I felt toward it at the time has not gone away (if anything, it's only increased), and so I feel compelled to write this review, even though it's a number of years later, and vent some of my outrage.

Let me start by saying that most bad movies are bad because, for whatever reason, they just don't work, and they're either boring or simply not funny.  Off the top of my head, I can think of several films made by ex-SNL cast members which fit in this category.  Those type of films I can excuse.  They are what they are, and they generally don't aim very high to begin with.

This, though, is something else entirely.  This is a movie that aims to be more than a mere gross-out comedy. It aims for a kind of social commentary, and to say something meaningful about men, about women, about the way they relate to one another, etc etc.  The only problem is, it doesn't know what to say, or how to say it, and so it fails miserably, both as social commentary and as entertainment.

The main male characters are repellant, obnoxious, truly hateful people, and I would not want to know, be around, or have anything to do with any of them.  There's no reason why any one else with any class or intelligence, male or female, would either, despite what the filmmakers would want us to believe.  The "dialogue" is crude, simplistic, and painfully unfunny, and it is downright unpleasant to hear.  And yet, at the same time, it's implied that these are witty, urbane, intelligent adults, and that despite their smugness, crudeness, and narcissism, we're supposed to identify with and even like them.  Ha!  Nothing could be more preposterous...except maybe the so-called plot twist at the end.

I could go on, but I won't, except to say that this is a bad movie on every level, and without exaggeration, one of the worst I've ever seen.