I have enjoyed this film for years and was very eager to have it come out on dvd.  A smashing little thriller and a fine portrait of a woman who is a complete sociopath. Imagine my suprise that in all the world, Fox couldn't find two people who actually like the film to do the commentary track!  Most of the track is taken up by the non-stop whinings of Darryl Hickman, the then teen aged actor who played Danny.  He is currently a drama teacher who has discovered (I kid you not) "the definitive acting style for the new millenium", about which he is writing a book.  And apparently everyone comes up short against his high standards.  Gene Tierney was a lovely, troubled, cold stand-offish society woman of no discernible talent who telegraphs her technique.  Both Cornel Wilde and Jeanne Crain were lovely people of limited abilities.  Chill Wills was a personality and not an actor at all.  The actress who plays Gene and Jeanne's mother was a stage actress and far too mannered and "internal" (?), not "in the moment". Only Vincent Price escapes his wrath, and even then he unfavorably compares his looks to Cornell Wilde's. The director treated him abominably, constantly referring to him as, gasp, "son". In fact, he doesn't think there should be child actors at all since it's so abusive. It seems this guy thinks every bit of film acting prior to "the method" was irredeemable garbage and the only admirable thing about the film is the cinematography. The film obviously interrupted his high times with Liz and Roddy and Shirley and other heavily dropped names of the period. Sad sad bitter man. You and Jay North need to form a club. I hope you are enjoying putting your impeccable technique to work in the many fine community theatre productions that you feel superior while doing.

Richard Schickel is better if repetitive with his discussion of Women's pictures other than the one he's reviewing.  He too does not seem overly enamored of the actors or their performances.  But, Oh, that cinematography!

They should've let Scorsese do the track! He would've had some superlatives.