I have never played the games, nor do I know much of the story behind it. Perhaps that is good, because I won't like many reviewers be lamenting that it differs from it. Although to be honest, even if I did know the games I doubt I would care. I realise that movie versions of books and games differ, and as long as the story is good that's all that matters. I enjoyed this film, it wasn't a 'hide behind the sofa' film, but then these days, what is. We start with a bunch of people in an office slash science lab being killed. We do not know why but this grips us. We then cut to Milla Jovovich lying naked (covered by a shower curtain) in a bathroom. She doesn't seem to know where she is and gets flashes of memory. The action kicks off from there with SWAT like operatives storming the place along with a man who says he is local police. The action keeps on giving from there. People die in a myriad of ways, and you don't get a zombie here or there you get them BOOM all at once. I'm not sure if this is good or bad. One the one hand it makes the task of escaping (which they must do in an allotted time or be trapped forever) all the more impossible. On the other it's not a big shock when we see them all again, and again. The big creature wasn't scary, or rather, it was if we believed it to be real but I didn't. The dogs were scarier in that sense because they are more believable. I liked that the film had strong female characters. Now, I am no feminist but frankly, I'm sick of whiny, girls who want the man to rescue them. From the beginning, I knew Alice would kick booty, I mean the woman wears a pretty little dress, with combat boots. Michelle Rodrigez is a tougher chick but she also shows she has feelings and therefore doesn't feel one-dimensional. It's an interesting film with nice little twists. The soundtrack is both good and bad because it is by Marilyn Manson. I say that because as it's by him the film is labelled as a worthless teen flick, which is not the case. It's good because - and while some of his music does suck - the tracks included in the film are good. Not too gory, this again is both a blessing and a sin. It's a zombie film so we expect lots of gore but the fact not much is added makes it not just be about blood but has to have a plot too.
Diana