I must warn the reader that I may not be objective reviewing this product. Because I'm a Maiden fan since their early years and I always tend to rate their products with five stars. (Yes even their albums from the 1990's; many people believe those albums are weak in Maiden standarts).

I live in Turkey and En Vivo DVD was released a few days late here. At the meantime, I -as many Maiden fans did - watched the songs in You Tube. But yet, I purchased the Limited Edition Steel Box. I believe many Maiden fans did the same.

In 2011, when the Final Frontier album was announced, it was scary for two reasons: There was a resemblance with Pink Floyd's The Final Cut album. First, both albums included the word "final" in their title and second both albums included a song about a nuclear holocaust. (Two Suns in the Sunset in The Final Cut and When the Wild Wind Blows in The Final Frontier.) Some commentators claimed that The Final Frontier would be the last album in Maiden's career. But soon after the album was released, Maiden announced a World Tour called The Final Frontier Tour. It was a great chance for me to watch them live in the Sonisphere leg of the tour in Istanbul/Turkey. It was the best show I've ever seen so far.

En Vivo was recorded in Santiago/Chile with the same list of songs. So, nothing new for those who watched Iron Maiden live in their World Tour. So what makes this DVD special?

Let's review one by one:

1. Nice album cover + booklet: I don't like seeing Eddie (Maiden's famous mascot) so disgusting in the album covers. My Favourite Eddie's are those in the Piece of Mind, Seventh Son of a Seventh Son, Somewhere in Time and A Matter of Life and Death album covers. In En Vivo's cover, we see Eddie with his huge teeth and small eyes at the upper half and Maiden on the stage at the lower half. Amazing Chilean fans are at the background. There's an 8 page booklet in the DVD, including the info about The Final Frontier World Tour, band members, special thanks, the "Killer Crew", etc, plus pictures from the show and that disgusting Eddie again.

2. First DVD (Concert) : Then the show begins with an empty view of the Estadio Nacional Stadium of Santiago. Then the Ed Force airplane flows over the stadium and a lovely Latin lady screaming "Maideeeeen". Then comes the screen divided to three. We watch pieces from the Final Frontier clip, band members landing on Chile and the Maiden fans - always so hot and amazing, they are the best parts of the Maiden shows. Finally, the stadium is full and Bruce Dickinson's digital view appears, singing the first lines of The Final Frontier song. (Stars at the background) This is a very exciting start for the show. After the opening, the live show begins and from the very begining of the concert, you feel the taste of a great Rock band.

The song selection may be discussed. Many Maiden fans would like to hear the songs such as Aces High, Run to the Hills, The Rime of the Ancient Mariner from the earlier period or songs such as Isle of Avalon, Starblind from The Final Frontier album. But, hey guys ! Remember, Iron Maiden can organize a concert and play all the songs available in their career and yet, Maiden fans would demand more and more. If I should criticize En Vivo DVD, it would be that: Why there's no song from A Matter of Life and Death album? (I think it's one of the best albums in Maiden's career.)

My favourite songs from En Vivo album are The Talisman, Dance of Death, Blood Brothers, When the Wild Wind Blows, Fear of the Dark and Hallowed Be Thy Name. I don't mean the other songs are performed bad. But I think, Maiden performance is at the height, especially in Talisman, Dance of Death and Fear of the Dark. Bruce Dickinson is more than a singer; almost an actor. Dave Murray, Adrian Smith and Jannick Gers are perfect. Nicko is Nicko (any comment needed?) and Steve Harris is unbelievable. I am younger than all the members of the band and I can't believe how energetic they are, at the stage.

A walking Eddie appears in The Evil That Men Do. Then a giant Eddie appears behind the stage in the song Iron maiden, again. The last song is from the "Jurassic Park Period" of the band: Running Free. I think it was funny to close the show with that song. At least Maiden fans have hope now that Maiden will not disband and make new albums. ("2012 - Maiden England" tour was already announced.)

3. Second DVD (Behind the Beast) : As the name implies, this DVD is about the behind of the stage. I'm sure Maiden fans would like to see how that excellent show was planned from the very beginning in full details.

Finally ... We always ask ourselves: Why should I buy this product? My answer for En vivo is simple: This is the height in Maiden's carreer. If you're a Rocker, you have to own this DVD. Iron Maiden products are always worth of buying, and this is the best so far.