When I watched this film when it initially came into the theaters, I was a young child and the thing I remember about the movie was that it got me interested in running since the actual race footage in this movie is outstanding and highly inspiring.  Later on, I began to grasp the more substantive elements of the story.  The acting, filmmaking, and story all combine to produce an outstanding film of substance over form.
As others have commented, the film is a study of contrasts that mainly chronicles two men.  We're first introduced to Harold Abrahams, a secular Jew who comes from a successful Jewish family in England.  He enrolls at Cambridge and sets out to prove himself in an often defiant spirit against what he perceives (rightly so in all probability) as the soft antisemitism that dominates his surroundings.  He establishes himself as a dominant athlete possessing special athletic gifts, and also aggressively seeks to be accepted as an 'English man' by his peers through participating in G&S productions and in courting a prominent socialite.  He is clearly on a mission to prove himself (to others as well as to himself) and to be accepted (by others and by himself).
Then we encounter Eric Liddell, a Scot and a Presbyterian missionary who believes that his ability to run fast is a gift of God that would be sinful to ignore.  After a personal struggle about being torn between his church work and his running, he makes the decision to devote himself to running in the short term in the hopes of qualifying for the Olympics, and then after that, to become a full time missionary to China.
Both Abrahams and Liddell are portrayed as encountering opposition to their goals.  When not competing directly against each other, they pull for each other and recognize each other's gifts.  But I felt that the most provocative message of the story is that while one might expect that Abrahams would encounter opposition from the old guard and establishment because of being Jewish, we find that Liddell experiences the same thing as a result of being a sincere Christian, rather than one in name only.  When Liddell refuses to put the interests of the earthly king ahead of the sacred instruction of the one true King, he takes a principled stand that is quietly respected by some, loudly protested by others - particularly those in power.  In this respect, the contrasts between Abrahams and Liddell end up becoming similarities.
This film won the Best Picture Oscar, and deservedly so.  By Hollywood standards, it is a rare achievement.  It not only praises the humanistic determination of Abrahams (which is standard Hollywood fare) but also clearly praises the principled Christian attitudes of Liddell, which is antithetical to much of what we see on the movie screen these days.  This movie provides a tremendous focal point for further discussions and contemplations because it does such a good job in contrasting the two men and their experiences in such a way that many viewers will likely find something they can relate to.  The very end of the film demonstrates that both men achieved what they wanted, with Abrahams becoming an influential figure in British society and athletic scene, and Liddell fulfilling his Christian mission to China and being a hero to Scotland.
An outstanding film all the way around.