You know, I saw NSNA in theatres as a young teen, and having been brought up in the Moore era, I really did not see it as a bad or good movie, just an action movie.  In later years, I kept hearing this was the orphan James Bond movie, that it really wasn't very good, and that when the Bond films were being released on VHS in the early 1990's, it was not worth looking for.  I promptly forgot about the movie's existence.

Then something happened.  Over the two successive DVD releases of Bond films over the last decade, I started remembering mysterious, hazy scenes of a chess game that caused the players to feel the pain of their decisions, with a round-faced bad guy who loved the water.  Sean Connery played the lead role.  Ooooh!  And then there was that really, sexy bad lady in (what was for 1980) a very brief bathing suit.  But what movie were these scenes from?  Oh yeah!  Never Say Never Again.  The power of negative reviews!  I decided to watch it again and yes, it did have some bizarre production values for a Bond film.  The opening music is truly awful for the scenes shown. (Irving, my Empire Strikes Back friend, what were you thinking?)

But by the end of the movie, the good plot points outweighed the bad.  There were some moments of humor...perhaps too many for a Bond film...but I didn't feel as if I wasted 2 hours of my life.  I enjoyed it.  And while I prefer the Broccoli/Salzman productions, I think seeing an alternative like this is rewarding.  Even if you don't like it as much, it's a different take.  Mind you, after many years of being a habitual fuddy-duddy, I now now enjoy trying new things and looking at different perspectives.  You may not.

As a true Bond fan, it's almost a must own anyways, especially at Amazon's price.  Extras?  Well, yes, that would be nice.  A commentary or two?  Redux?  Digital restoration?  Sure, but think about it...if you owned the rights to this movie, after reading about so many low ratings over the years, would you invest $5 million in a redo?  Well, I hope the owners/studio will consider it, because I think the film is worth it.