Two men who haven't met for a long while sit down and talk--about life.  One, Wally, starts the conversation with a thoughtless, "You look great!"  Andre replies, "Well, I FEEL awful."
I just came back from hearing the two actors discuss the film in person at UCSB, and I'll add a bit from their impressions:
They had no intention of creating a smash, knew nothing about financing such a film, and started out by getting some of Andre's stories (yes, they're real, the actor did those things) and Wally's responses on tape.  They did this for about a year and a half, talking wherever the talk led them.  Wally had for a time been the "cold coffee" man who believed in science and chance and coincidence, and he wanted to move beyond that.  Andre had been opened up and shattered by the events he narrates, and he wanted to talk about it.  That's how the film started out:  a project between two men speaking and listening from the heart.
The movie ran for six weeks in four cities and was dying.  ("That couldn't happen today," Wally said this evening.  "It would have been pulled long before.")  At one point Andre went to a theater up the road and told men standing in line to see a gay film, "Hey, if you can't get into this one, there's another movie about two men right over there...."  Then Ebert and Siskell saw it and began to praise it, and before long it took off.  (And no, they don't plan a sequel.)
Asked how making the movie had changed him, Andre replied that he came away a humbler man.  The interest in this film, which deals with issues of staying alive in a society of near-robotic sleepwalking, astounded him.  He believed in the film (and the dialog and writing are marvelous), but had no idea it would speak to so many people.  
Fascism, Hitler, and terrorists are mentioned in the film, although briefly; the actors agreed that had they filmed it today, more along those lines would have appeared in it.  Both are appalled at the rapid development of the American police state since 911; but as Andre remarks in the film, the ultimate in tyranny and confinement is to condition the prisoners to be their own guards.
A good slogan for this soulful film, which I warmly recommend, might be Camus's statement:  "Being able to remain on that dizzying crest:  that is integrity, and the rest is subterfuge."