In the aftermath of Star Trek:The Motion Picture, Star Trek II:The Wrath of Khan went back the original format established during the television series. Gene Roddenberry wanted an action packed movie. The story of the movie was basically a fight for survival.
In the beginning, Captain Spock and his cadets, were in a bridge simulator in preparation for a training cruise on the Enterprise. Admiral James Kirk would be evaluating crew performance during the cruise. The movie seen the introduction of a new character, Lieutenant Saavik. Kirstie Alley did good job in portraying the character. Robin Curtis would do a better job during Star Trek III: The Search for Spock and during her brief appearance in Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home. In original storyline, Saavik was to be half Vulcan, half Romulan. When her character was introduced in the movie, Saavik was a full Vulcan.
The main part of the story takes place in the Ceti Alpha star system. Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan, is a continuation of the Star Trek episode "The Space Seed" The late Ricardo Montalban, reprised his role as Khan in the movie and turned in an outstanding performance. In this part of the movie, the Reliant is on orbital approach to what they believe to be Ceti Alpha 6. Reliant was part of the Genesis Project. In this part of the movie, we were introduced to Kirk's past. The affair he had with Dr. Carol Marcus and the birth of their son David. By mutual agreement, Kirk agreed to stay away. David grows up to be scientist and a research partner with his mother. While growing up, David was never informed, Captain James T. Kirk, was his father. After landing, Chekov and Terrell,are captured by Khan and his people. This is when Chekov and Terrell find out,they're on Ceti Alpha 5. In the series, Khan and his people, were sent into exile on Ceti Alpha 5, rather than face charges of hijacking the Enterprise. Six months into their exile, the orbit of Ceti Alpha 5 was shifted when Ceti Alpha 6 exploded. Over the course of time, Khan was hoping to seek revenge on Kirk and the Enterprise. With the arrival of the Reliant, gives Khan the opportunity he was hoping for. While waiting for Reliant to be transporter range, Khan learns about the Genesis Project. Kirk is alerted of possible trouble, when Dr. Marcus attempts to contact him on the Enterprise, requesting verification of an order of Starfleet taking procession of Genesis, only to find out, their communications were being jammed. With the Enterprise, the only ship in the area, they're ordered to active duty. Kirk's concern, is for the training crew on the Enterprise. They were being placed in a threat situation before they were ready.

The rest of the movie, was a fight for survival. Khan ambushes the Enterprise and disables her. The ace up Kirk's sleeve, was the Prefix Code. After making whatever repairs they could, Kirk's concern was for Dr. Marcus and the Genesis Project. Upon arrival at the Regula I station, Kirk finds the aftermath of Khan's anger. After finding Chekov and Terrell, Kirk makes a coded message to the Enterprise. Upon transporting inside the Regula 1 planetoid, Kirk finds Dr. Marcus, his son and the Genesis Device, only to find out, they walked into a trap. After taking Genesis, Khan was under the impression, Kirk was going to be marooned inside a dead planet. Khan was unaware of the coded message. The Enterprise was in hiding and was able to restore partial main power. Two hours later, Kirk and his party, were transported to the Enterprise.
This is where the fight for survival, get intense. Kirk knows the only way to even the fight, is to play hide & seek inside the Mutara Nebula. During their battles, both the Enterprise and the Reliant were heavily damaged. In his last attempt to destroy the Enterprise, Khan activates the Genesis device. What Khan was not aware of, Dr. David Marcus was on the bridge of the Enterprise and seen the sensor display from Spock's science console. With Warp drive unavailable, the Enterprise tried to get away from the Reliant at best possible speed before the Genesis Device detonates. Knowing they are facing certain destruction, Spock makes the ultimate sacrifice when he makes repairs to the Warp Drive. With seconds to spare,the Enterprise escapes destruction. After knowing his wife and son are safe, Kirk has to endure the ultimate pain of losing his best friend.
The funeral ceremony was a fitting close. The special touch is when Scotty was playing Amazing Grace on the bag pipes. Their window of opportunity for the next movie, is when Spock's burial tube passed through what remains of the Genesis Wave Radiation. During some quiet time in his quarters to grief over Spock's death, David acknowledges that Admiral James T. Kirk, is his father and very proud of him.

Star Trek II:The Wrath of Khan, is the best of the action based movies of the Star Trek movie series involving the original crew. This was the first Star Trek movie to use George Lucas' Industrial Light & Magic to provide the special effects for the movie. Ricardo Montalban was outstanding in reprising his role as Khan. He was being considered for the Academy Award. However, he did not make the final cut. In the Special Collector's Edition, the edited scenes were restored to this version, including the introduction of Scotty's nephew, Peter Preston and the scenes in Sick Bay where Scotty loses his nephew and scene between Kirk and McCoy asking the question, "How did Khan find out about Genesis?" The restored scenes, added to the storyline.
Star Trek II:The Wrath of Khan - The Director's Cut, would be an excellent edition to anyones DVD collection. The movie is a continuation of an episode that appeared during the original series!