I LOOOOOVEEE this movie, i always loved the story of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow in all its formats, from the made-for-TV version starring Jeff Goldbloom as Ichabod Crane to the Disney mini-classic of the story, this has always been one of my favorite scary halloween tales. I remember when the film first was announced and i saw the commercials, i was sooooo excited to see that tim burton would be making a live action version! of course, this is a very different take on the tale. lots of blood and gore, and yes, you may be thinking "whhhhooaa! that wasnt in the book!", well i know it isnt, but before you think this means the film is just a stupid freddy krueger-type slasher, think again. this movie has two things that makes it absolutly spectacular to experience: GREAT style and GREAT music score. Elfman is just.............SUPERB in this one. his music is so emotional, so SCARY and DARK. gives you goosebumps, and it stays with you. His music is superb. theres no question about it. and he seems to be at his best when hes working on Tim Burton movies. the movie follows ichabod crane who is a kind of detective/invesitgator for the law in this version and he is sent (by Christopher Lee!!) to a little town called Sleepy Hollow where cases of "decapitations" have been happeneing and is told to solve this mystery. Well, it turns out a myseterious figure called the Headless Horesman is cutting off peoples heads left and right. The plot deepens, and it really is a shocking surprise. this is a very suspenseful, atmospheric horror movie that has such great set designs, great acting, VERY atmospheric (lots of fog, hardly any sunlight, lots of dead trees and everything very dark), this movie has it all for a big horror fan and while it does have some gross moments (personally, i think they are scary as hell), it really is done so well that it grabs you and doesnt let go. the first scene in the movie makes hooks you in and it takes you on a real scary ride! if your a Tim Burton fan, this is a must see. if your just a movie fan looking for a GREAT horror movie with style and substance, you NEED to tsee this. so well done!! Kudos to Burton, Elfman and Co. Ill never forget when i first saw this on video when it came out (i couldnt bear to see it in the movie theater), and i had nightmares about it! i thought i'd never be able to watch it again, but now i find myself watching this great horror flick on a monthly basis! its sooo good. The only thing i wasnt crazy about in this movie was chistina ricci. how did she get this part anyways? she was pretty stiff, as someone else has mentioned, and she was just annoying. she didnt even kiss ichbod or anything! she just wasnt great. but hey! one dumb actress doesnt make this movie any more worse, johnny depp is funny and very cool and he gives alot of humour and great acting to the story. michael gough (who played alfred in Burtons Batman movies) is in here as well, along with miranda richerdson, and that other actor who also was the fther in tim burtons other classic "Beeatlejuice". many great perfomances in this one, so just cuz the love was lame cuz of ricci doesnt make this a bad film. i still give it 5 stars, great movie-making.