After several seasons of 'The Simpsons,' Matt Groening (with David X. Cohen) decided on creating a warped version of 'The Jetsons,' called 'Futurama.'

Basically it tells the story of a hapless delivery boy who inadvertently gets frozen for a thousand years, only to end up being a futuristic delivery boy in a world gone mad with Suicide Booths, Killer Santabots, Robots, One-eyed alien/mutant, and other oddities.

Regrettably, thanks to Fox pre-empting the series with Football and other strange programming, the show really never got the chance to shine like it's other counterpart did.  But as with 'Family Guy,' 'Futurama' survived in reruns thanks to CN's Adult Swim.

And now after so many months of reruns, the show returns in a Direct-to-DVD feature called, "Bender's Big Score."  Of course, the title is a bit misleading since as with most Futurama episodes, the real focus happens to be on Fry and Leela.

Primarily as an inside joke, the story begins with Prof. Farnsworth informing the Planet Express crew they have been fired for about two years by the Box Network. Ironically, just before the dejected employees go to clean out their desks, Farnsworth receives word the Box Network execs were fired and subtly transformed into Torgo's Executive Powder (a running gag since apparently the product has many uses throughout the film).

Due to this, Planet Express is back in business, but the celebration is short-lived when Hermes Conrad gets beheaded in a freak accident.  Thus the film really begins.

Amidst the classic jokes and such, the plot goes something like this, while making a delivery to the Nudist Beach Colony Planet, three aliens trick the crew members into giving out their private information.

This results in Prof. Farnsworth losing ownership of Planet Express to them as well as Bender becoming an unwilling slave to them.  Yet, apparently these aliens thrive off of information, as they get Bender to plunder the Planet Express secrets and later discover Fry's Bender Tattoo subtly contains the Universal Time Code.

Though it's a Paradox-Correcting Time Code, there are unforeseen complications, as the scammers discover, because you can go back to the Past using the code, but not return to the Present (and apparently you can't go into the Future, but I'm digressing).  Thus, Bender volunteers in helping the scammers plunder the riches of Earth History.  Meanwhile, the scammers keep up swindling people out of their valuables.

Mainly the rest of the film deals with Fry and Leela, where Leela meets a handsome new medical assistant, Lars, while Fry ends up escaping back to the 21st Century, where we see another version of him live between 2000-2012.

The one thing I liked about the film was how they allude to a lot of the classic moments from Past Episodes.  As well as keeping with some inside gags, if you can spot them (like Cartman inside the Head Museum).

Many purists may not like how the film runs because technically it's really a long episode with some of the classic Futurama characters and shticks we've seen before.  Consequently, being a Futurama fan, I liked 'Bender's Big Score,' mainly because at least Groening and Cohen are keeping the original formula of the series, and not attempting some modernized flavour unfamiliar to us.  As what CN has done to 'George of the Jungle.'

Primarily I feel this is Futurama at it's best, the wry humour is there, and a lot of characters from past episodes, like the Harlem Globetrotters, make appearances.  We also get to see some mysteries solved as well, like how Fry's dog got fossilized in the first place, as well as what really caused 'aliens' to decimate New York as well.

I won't spoil the ending for you, but I will say it does leave you wanting more, which is good "Beast With a Million Backs," will be coming out soon, hopefully to give us more of the Planet Express crew and the hijinks of Futurama as well.