This is the first movie of the most well-known anime series ever, Sailor Moon!! This is my favorite anime series ever!!  Okay, enough with that, this movie, Sailor Moon R, is supposed to take place during the R season (doom tree, negamoon series) when Chibi-Usa (Rini) was still in the past *she hadn't gone home to the future, which is at the end of the R season, she comes back in the S season*. This movie is mostly based on Mamoru's (Darien's) past when he was in the orphanage; he was all alone when he befriended a young alien named Fiore. They became really good friends until Fiore had to leave earth. Mamoru, saddened by Fiore having to leave, gave him a flower *a rose* to say goodbye. Fiore, touched by the gift, searched all his life for flowers to bring back to Mamoru. In this movie is when he returns, and doesn't want Usagi (Serena) or any of the other soldiers to get in his way!! I won't spoil anything else for you :)
I really recommend this to Sailor Moon fans, but if you're a "moonie" and you've only seen the Cartoon Network Sailor Moon, here's some facts about the original *and much much better* Sailor Moon.
Names
Serena-Usagi or Usako as Mamoru calls her
Amy-Ami *that's hard, ne?*
Raye-Rei
Lita-Makoto, or Mako
Mina-Minako
Darien-Mamoru or Mamo-chan as Usagi calls him
Rini-Chibi-Usa
Luna and Artemis have the same names
Other stuff
the girls in the japanese version use -chan after each other's names. In Japan, this is used by people to express friendship with each other. The only exception is Rei, who just calls Usagi "Usagi", which means she has a closer frienship with Usagi than the other girls.
if -san is used after a name, it means that the person who said it is showing respect to that person, for instance, the girls *except for Usagi, of course* call Mamoru "Mamoru-san"
Usagi calls Mamoru "Mamo-chan" *a affectionate nickname* while Mamoru calls Usagi "Usa-ko" *an affectionate female nickname*
Okay, i'll end it here
Bottom Line: pretty good, if you're gonna get it, learn some facts if you don't know the japanese!!