Previously, I'd only seen this movie when it was a couple of years old, on HBO. I missed the first 40 minutes or so, and a few key scenes during the movie. I have to say that it hit me MUCH more emotionally thirty years later than it did the first time! At fifty, I have more concentration & patience to watch a movie through (or more than once) than I did at 20. For example, I interpreted the ride-to-brighton scene, where Chalky gets run off the road by Rockers differently this time. His "friends" stop for a few seconds, check him out briefly, then repair to Brighton without even waiting to see if his scooter still works, knowing that the road may be full of Rocker malefactors. The scene shows just how shallow the "friendships" in this set are. Throughout the movie, Jimmy pursues his goal of becoming a "Face" (trendsetter,Scene V.I.P) with manic force, but the quest brings him less gratification & more frustration as the story goes on.
First time around, I thought it was very weird for a couple to take a break from a violent riot to have sex in a alley, then re-join the riot. I now realize that to Jimmy, it is the "finish line" - he naively thinks that he's Got The Girl, the climax (pun intended) of a heroic day. Throughout the movie, Jimmy places great significance upon people & events that really mean nothing to his friends, who simply do whatever feels good whenever they feel like doing it. Steph has 3 boyfriends in the space of about a week, but it doesn't seem to bother anyone, least of all Dave , who seems happy to take his "turn". He even has the nerve to rib Jimmy about it, and seems genuinely surprised when Jim freaks out. Nothing means very much to these people. In the end he realizes that everything he's been pursuing is a fake: his Dreamgirl is the Neighborhood Slut, his Mod Idol is a lowly Bellboy.
The ending is a direct ripoff of "Harold & Maude". Harold "kills" the symbol of his morbid obsessions, Jimmy "kills" the symbol of his hedonistic lifestyle. And BTW, Jimmy does NOT die-the opening scene shows him walking away from the cliff