There are a lot of reviews of Imagine Me & You, but being my new favorite movie, I couldn't miss writing a review. I was really mesmerized by this movie the first time I saw it. There are so many good things about this movie so I'll try to elaborate on them.

The story may seem very clich&eacute;d, yes it is. Some people may say it isn't original at all. But even if that's the case, an unoriginal story becomes unique by the way it is told, by the people that tell it and the elements involved while telling the story. That is the magic of making movies and when it comes to Imagine Me & You, the outcome is just excellent. The photography used, the setting, the music, the lighting all contribute to deliver a very clean and sweet movie. Even if the title of the movie is borrowed from a song, the choice of music is delightful.

As I said before, a very important element on this story is the cast, the characters in charge of telling the story. Every character is memorable. First of all we meet Rachel, played very sweetly by Piper Perabo. She is about to get married to his long time best friend and boyfriend Heck (Matthew Goode). Of course this is the beginning of the story and not the end, so the plot grows when Rachel exchanges a deep and very meaningful glance with an unknown girl on the other side of the church. That girl is no other than beautiful and talented Lena Headey playing Luce, the florist. From then on, the issues to be solved circle around Rachel defining her feelings for Luce and for Heck. Fortunately this is a light comedy, so you'll laugh, you may shed a tear or two, but for me the movie leaves me in a very good mood, it really cheers me up.

Bothe Piper and Lena show a great chemistry in the movie. They're both charming and sweet. I think that the made a great impact on the audience because they nailed their characters perfectly. They feel both so real and so natural, and you only get that with pure talent. I really think that Lena goes a little further with her character. She provided Luce not only a face and a voice, but a soul. That makes her stand out from many other actresses who will never be able to provide that to a character.

I think that if you're looking for a nice movie to watch, this is a must. I may even guess there will be more people that will eventually give this movie a chance and even become fans. As a side note, I wouldn't label this movie as a lesbian movie. It is just a romantic movie. I don't think of it as a lesbian movie because that concept is not an issue during the movie. It's barely relevant Rachel isn't conflicted because she has feelings for another woman. The actual conflict is finding herself being in love with someone who isn't her husband. Luce accepts her being gay but she doesn't parade it or even try seduce Rachel. All the romance in this movie feels so natural and so fluid because love is like that. There's no rejection between gays and straights; Luce finds Cooper's attempts to seduce her charming, not offensive or irritating. Perhaps it's an ideal unreal micro society, but what's wrong with watching something nice, even if it's not real?

You will find that even the secondary and incidental characters are great. You will definitely love Edie, definitely.

I think Imagine Me & You  is one of those movies that don't attract many attention and will never be blockbusters, but nonetheless it will remain in your memory and maybe even in your heart. Imagine Me & You is a movie that touches you and a movie for which you may have a soft spot.

Finally, I think Ol Parker made a terrific job writing and directing this story. For me, this movie is a little piece of heaven.