You ask if this (Tribulation) is true, than why bother being a Christian , you can live how you want and then get your 2nd chance in the Tribulation after the Rapture. Well, I assure you, a 'pre-trib' rapture is by FAR the most believed of the three (incl. mid-trib rapture or no rapture...just the Second Coming) The most blatant,obvious proof in scripture of a pre-trib rapture is found in 1 Thessalonians 4:16-17 : 'For the Lord himself will come down from heaven with a commanding shout,with the call of the archangel,and with the trumpet call of God. First,all the Christians who have died will rise from the graves.Then,together with them,we who are still alive and remain on the earth will be caught up in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air and remain with Him forever.(NLT)

 There is a very good reason to accept Christ NOW before this happens . God promises tomorrow to NO ONE. If anyone that hasn't accepted Christ should die tonight, there IS no second chance, they'll spend eternity in hell and then the lake of fire(unbelievers judged at the Great White Throne Judgement will be cast with Satan into the lake of fire..Revelation 20:11-15) after Christ's 1000 year reign on earth. Even if you choose to deny Christ until after the Rapture and intend on turning to Him during the 7 year Tribulation, it won't be a picnic. Christians will be persecuted and hunted down day and night and be killed, most likely beheaded for their beliefs.The worst of the years will be the final 3 1/2 years which will culminate with Armagedden.As God said in 2 Corinthians 6:2 TODAY is the day of salvation" I'm looking SO forward to that  day when the Lord will come for me and all born again believers that we won't HAVE to endure the tortures during the Tribulation.
 As far as this movie or the first 2 Left Behind movies not being anywhere near the books, WHO CARES?  The POINT is getting the Word out there and save as many people as possible while there's time , whether through the books OR movies, it's the MESSAGE that counts!  Praise God!