This rather bleak picture of human nature is obscured by the mixed feelings we see Director Federico Fellini bestow upon the wretched characters in this intense black and white 1954 Italian film.  The simplistic theme of La Strada reminds me of the famous Alfred Hitchcock classic, Rear Window, with Jimmy Stewart's amazing charm running the show.  While a bored photojournalist, laid up with a broken leg, spies on his neighbors, he suspects one of them (Raymond Burr) has committed murder.  What could a man of physical limitations do?

What could a man of emotional limitations do?  We see the shrewd and calculating Zampano (Anthony Quinn), eager to take advantage of anything coming his way.  He makes financial arrangements with a poor family by bargaining for one of their daughters, a young and innocent Gelsomina (Giulietta Masina), eager to have her assume the role of his wife.  At first, he is delighted\\ with her participation in his circus act, reasoning that she will enhance their financial intake each time they perform.  At night, he viciously manipulates her, forcing her to do his deeds.  Soon, however, he tires of her and ventures into local bars with the extra money he earned to pursue other women.  Of course, a fight breaks out in one of his escapades and Zampano winds up at the losing end, never realizing that his chain-defying mentality is only circus born and cannot demonstrate the might he needs to muster in the real world.

They begin to perform in miniature circuses.  As Gelsomina learns the ropes, she begins to steal the act, sending Zampano into rages.  In their quest to take part in a real circus, she meets the fool, (Richard Basehart) who represents hope for her.  Although he is allusive in his communication attempts, he appears to support her contentions to be her own woman.  This arrangement only angers Zampano even more, pushing him to take strong action against the fool.  Later in the film, Gelsomina and Zampano meet the fool again, this time on the road in a remote place.  Zampano becomes so outraged at him that he fatally strikes him in the head.  Zampano is left in a state of desperation to make his death look like an accident.  Even though he appears sorry for having pushed his anger so far, his only alternative is to make Gelsomina feel responsible for the deed.

He summons the strength to realize his inadequacies, which comes, ironically at the end when he realizes what he missed when she finally leaves him.  Believing he is invincible, he moves on, but eventually, comes to terms with his shortcomings in a strange twist.  She never knew that he searched for her fruitlessly.

Federico Felini's attempt to give our exaggerated Italian macho man an invulnerable character is very successful, flavoring the mid 50's yarn with believable sketches that endure and reach out to our hearts with their limitations and human potential.  Before the movie ends, Zampano does reveal his human frailty.  When we see films like this, it's easy to understand how young Anthony Quinn rose to become one of the truly great icons of the screen.  I could see this film again and again and again...