The primary purpose of this movie is to garner laughs, even at the expense of believability and reality.  Nevertheless, "Kingpin" holds a certain visceral appeal that is not necessarily related to humor and that "Dumb and Dumber" and "There's Something About Mary," two other Farrelly Brothers movies, while also funny, do not have.  Maybe "Kingpin" has - dare I say it? - heart.
First, the laughs, of which there are plenty.  In the tradition of "Airplane!" this movie is spilling over with gags and also in the tradition of that seminal movie, some of the gags are funnier than others.  A couple of the weak ones: the urinal scene, the s**t storm.  The wince inducing one: poor Buttercup (what is it with the Farrelly Brothers and animals?).  The funny ones however more than compensate.  My personal favorite is the depiction of the drunken, down on his luck Munsen done to "It's a Beautiful Morning." by the Rascals.  I can never hear that song in the same way again!  The jokes are audacious but not mean spirited, suprisingly enough.
Then there are the characters!  Bill Murray as Big Ern McCracken is a comedic classic, a character of unprecedented arrogance and unctiousness.  The directors were wise to let him ad lib.  The landlady is wonderfully grotesque.  Stan, the psycho boyfriend, deserves kudos just for the way he pulls money out of his pocket.  Those shady characters in the bowling alley the night Munsen loses his hand.
Second, the heart, or the je ne sais quois, or whatever. I guess it has to do with the main characters, Roy and Claudia for being downtrodden but still kicking, Ishmael for his naivite.  Even though the movie never passes up a chance to exploit Roy's prosthetic hand for a laugh, I felt sympathy for him. He actually is a three dimensional, evolving character. You want him to succeed even as you laugh at his expense or at Ishmael's expense when Roy corrupts him with non-Amish ways.
The movie is shot in a lovely way what with the rolling bucolic farmlands as Roy, Claudia, and Ishmael wend their way to Reno.  The generous use of rock and pop tunes interspersed with the original music paces the movie nicely.
It is these ingredients - characters, scenery, music, not to mention a strong plot - that bolster the movie several notches above 90 or so minutes of mere laughs.
[A few words about the DVD itself: I bought it because it contains footage not previously shown but I wonder about the wisdom of including it in the movie itself. Some of the extra gags did not seem to fit. They struck me as jarring.  Perhaps if I had seen it in this way first. My major complaint is that the footage I really wanted to see, that which is shown in the trailors, was NOT included.  Ah well.  It's still worth owning.  One nice little feature enables one to watch the movie while listening to the directors' commentary throughout.]