So many people have dismissed the acting in this movie, and the characterizations, as one-sided, and have stated with assurance that they knew what was going to happen, that I must put my two cents' worth in. This movie is -- among other things -- a remarkable portrayal of narcissism in the flesh.

Narcissism, clinically defined, is the condition which makes the person act as if they are the only person of any importance in the world. Not only is she the center of the world, but she deserves to be there and anyone who does not recognize this and pay homage is simply too stupid to exist.

It's also a horribly painful way to live. We all have some degree of narcissism, but I don't know anyone who's ever felt that they are or were given all the positive attention they have ever wanted. Some psychologists say that while the major problem during Freud's time was neurosis, the corresponding problem today is narcissism. I think they're not far off.

Just a thought or two to chew on: what if we look at the movie with Nina and her mother as the main focus? It's clear that the mother is pushing Nina to fulfill the role she had wanted (and expected) for herself back in her youth, before her pregnancy with Nina forced her to stop dancing. Nina has been affected in such a way that she will do ANYTHING -- including some pretty overt self-destruction -- to make her mother love her. And it appears that no matter how beautifully she performs this role, she will not satisfy her mother; should she perform "perfect," she will only incur her mother's wrath for bypassing her achievements.

The last words of the movie suggest some consideration of this angle. As she's dying, Nina says, "I felt it! I felt it!" and the director asks her what it is she felt. She answers, "Perfect!" and then dies, apparently in bliss. That's a question worth spending some time chewing on: what happened in the first 20-something years of this woman's life that she can finally be at peace ONLY when she was performed a piece so perfectly that it necessitates her death.

Sad. And hardly superficial acting- or story-wise.