Love the Bundys. That said I have to disagree with some of you all when you say its one of them shows that doesnt have a moral to the story/series.

1. Never Mess with a Bundy.

2. No matter how hard you try, no matter how hard you fight or how much you struggle or strive 90-99% of the time: You...JUST...CANT...WIN! Unless Youre messing with a bundy then chances are greatly increased Like in "What goes around came around" one of the girls bud had a crush on in the past humiliated him, then she did it again but this time on stage at the prom and Kelly got revenge for him. Then when kelly is told to 'put out or get out' in a later episode Bud gets revenge for her and gives the guy measles I think it was. And What about the labor day Episode where the people in the next car tell Al to 'shut the hell up'? Free-way Brawl anyone?

3. Also A bundy is a bundy's own worst enemy Like in the "Bundyful Life Episodes" They are happy with out me? Hell I wanna live then! Paybacks for them making me miserable my whole life! Seemed to be the Moral of that Story. And how about when Peggy Out-bowled Al? Or when Peggy swapped Kellys Jello for Home-Ec class that Al ate in the middle of the night, just so she could finally get her diploma even though Kelly got held back or had to go to Summer school?

4. And there are alot of Food opportunities all around the house if you but look.....Toaster Leavins anyone? Hows about a Tang-wipe? Or Toothpaste sandwiches...so you can eat AND fight cavities at the same time.

My favorite episodes would have to be (Not in any particular order): Rain Girl, We'll follow the sun, Married with Aliens, Wabbit Season, You better shop around, Route 666, The England episodes, Poppy's By the tree, You better watch out (Santa dies), Peggy and the Pirates (Cabin Boy-Girl lol!), Take my wife Please, How green was my apple, The Camping Episode (in season 3), Married with...Queen (Season 3), Hot off the grill, Who'll stop the rain?

  ...And My Ultimate Favorite I think is the Episode where the Bundys have to play football in Hell to get out of Hell with Satan (Robert Englund ?spelling?) as the referee (I cant remember the name on that one but it was Hilarious!).

Over all I loved the Bundys although the "Seven" episodes were kinda confusing/annoying? I remember how he, Seven, showed up but I dont rememeber about how/when he left. But it kinda threw off the dynamic in my oppinion, then again it was pretty ironic to see peggy doting on him when she never did for Bud or Kelly (Unless they were moving out of the house, another irony?). Like when the others just simply sneezed once and she threw them out so Seven wouldnt get sick...

Loved the cast everyone was Great made me laugh till i cried. And I am sooo glad it was released on DVD although I was kind of disappointed when I think in Season 3 They changed the intro music. The Original was just classic Bundy. The new music does kind of fit cause it brings to mind a 3-ring circus But still I Liked the original much better.

Anyway this is just my oppinion.
Peace everyone, Cyn