To clarify, I do not own this particular DVD.  This review concerns the movie itself.  Plot elements are vaguely revealed in this review, so don't read it if you haven't seen the movie yet.  There is a warning in the review before any potential spoilers are revealed.

People have called this film many things, dull, plodding, what have you, but they do not understand the point of it.  This film was never meant to be an action packed romp through a fictional western ideal.

This film deals with real men, imagined, perhaps, but real in their plight and manner.  Death is heavy subject matter, and this is perhaps one of the few movies that gets the point across.  There are no heroes in Unforgiven.  It is not a director's self indulgent pat on the back, either.  This film is as good as anyone ever said it was, and is by far, the most relevant story of violence told on the silver screen.  It is at times vulgar, distasteful, and flat out cold, but such was the life of this kind of man.  This was the reality of the myth, and no punches are held in laying that fact out for the viewer to observe.

After this point, I discuss plot.

There is an evolution throughout the film, where the viewer tags alongside the main character.  At first, he is innocuous, and one is lead to believe that perhaps the days are truly over, or maybe this man isn't so bad, after all.  Throughout the film, the journey follows him, and his fellow riders, as he is laid low by the plot, forcing the viewer to identify with him slowly.  You get to know his character as a man, as varied myths of the west are smashed to pieces in action and conversation around him.  Throughout it all, there is talk by many characters of just what a real killer truly is.

This man begins to grow on you, as others talk of killing, and even accomplish it, to their own ability.  Mention is made of his devotion to his wife, and the viewer is left to identify further with him, and begin to really like him, before the bottom falls out, and the man reveals the true colors of such a legend, and the monster is revealed.

The gunfight is sudden, and the killings are meant to shock.  Things are presented things actually are in such a situation.  The viewer watches as violence fuels this character to a bitter end for others, you can feel the adrenaline flowing in his veins as he steels himself after the fight, murdering the survivors and promising death to everyone who would oppose him, right on down the family line, starting with women and children.

He knows the use of fear and blood, and you can see him slump away on his horse as the moment leaves him, riding not into a sunset, but into a dark, wet, cloudy night, rain dripping off of his hat, hoping to leave town before his spell wears off of them.

This is a film about death, and the reality of death.  It does not color over the harsh reality of the men we like to idolize.  5 men killed at the end of this film feels like 500, it weighs on you, if you let yourself be absorbed by it.  This film does not idolize a gunfighter, it obsesses, it twists and writhes with the reality of the coldness and hate that is required of a killer, and the detached irrelevance of life after the act.

If you only see one western film in your life, make it this one.