I loved this movie when I first saw it as a kid in 1979 and this is truly a kids film

This movie was Disney's response to Star Wars.

The story goes as follows.  The Cygnus was the first and apparently last of a vast program to explore the stars.  The Cygnus was as vast as a city and as well armed as a battleship.  It carried a large crew.  Unfortunately, after it was lost without anyone hearing from it -- space exploration went a different route....smaller ships like Palomino were sent out to explore the cosmos for life (mostly in vain).

As the Palomino with its small crew featuring Ernest Borgnine, a few other crew members, and V.I.N.C.E.N.T - the ship's robot, are making their way back to Earth they detect a massive black hole.

Caught at the very edge of the Black hole's gravity but not falling in they detect a ship.  It turns out to be the Cygnus.

I won't spoil the story beyond that but suffice it to say that the first 3/4 of the movie make great scientific sense.  Even when the pyrotechnics start, its wonderfully beautiful -- but the very last finale of the movie falls apart into metaphysical mumbo jumbo many times that's more reminiscent of the psychadelic 60s.  In its defense, the finale does tend to be somewhat poetic, is visually beautiful, but somehow it seems out of place for a movie that seems so well grounded in science for the first 3/4s of it.  Poetic ending, yes, beautiful yes....but the movie could have done with a more balanced ending.

The movie's special effects, acting, animation, robots are all great.

Beware though, if you saw this movie as a kid and see it as an adult expecting that same wonder that you felt as a kid - you might be dissappointed.  The robots look a bit rigid and like they're made of cardboard -- but VINCENT's and BOBs personalities steal the show.  The movie is dated, not quite as tightly woven as you probably remember.  Its a fun romp through memory lane though.

I own the movie, if that says anything.

If you don't like sci fi - stay away.