The movie centres on Michael Kovak (O'Donoghue) who works with his father in the family business as a mortician, but decides to attend seminary school and become a priest as per family tradition. During his time at the school, he suffers a crisis of faith and resigns his position, but after witnessing a fatal car crash and Kovak giving a blessing to a dying woman, his headteacher sends him to Rome to study exorcism, under the tutelage of Father Xavier (Hinds). When he constantly doubts the methods and facts surrounding exorcism, Kovak is sent to see Father Lucas (Hopkins), who shows him exorcism from a more practical perspective which makes Kovak question his beliefs and what is indeed real.

The first half of the film explores Kovak's struggle. The movie is quick to establish Kovak as a man in conflict, struggling with the decision to work at his family's mortuary business or to become a priest (which is stated in the movie as being the two jobs their family does), but it is his character's doubts about his own beliefs that provide the central theme through not only this part of the movie, but the entire movie in general. The pacing of this part of the movie and the development of O'Donoghue's character moved a bit too slowly for me and most of the scenes showed Kovak arguing with his teacher during classes. The film however picks up when Anthony Hopkins' character makes his appearance and Kovak begins to see exorcism in practice.

The second half of the film follows Lucas, with Kovak in tow, as he conducts exorcism sessions. Despite several instances where the supposed possessed person does and says things they can't possibly know or do, Kovak remains the doubter even when he begins to experience strange phenomena himself. The finale is one of the best parts of the film, where Kovak must put aside his doubts if he is to save a friend. O'Donoghue's character is developed a bit more in the second half but he was still a bit bland in comparison to Hopkins, whose character develops nicely and was much more interesting, providing the audience with a creepy performance reminiscent of Hannibal Lecter.

The scenes and dialogue between Hopkins and O'Donoghue are brilliantly written, with O'Donoghue constantly questioning exorcism practices and Hopkins delivering a calm and logical response from the religious perspective. O'Donoghue himself provided some excellent counter arguments based on science and medical fact and it is this battle of beliefs between Hopkins and O'Donoghue that provide the best entertainment.

The mood of the whole film is very sombre. Most scenes are shot either at night or are very dark and dismal. The film also draws on using dream and hallucination sequences to add that surreal element and the use of close-ups showing the demonic presence in victims were also very well done.

OVERALL
The Rite is a good film that can sit proudly as one of the better films about exorcism. Anthony Hopkins once again delivers a stellar performance in one of his better roles in years. Although the movie starts slowly, the tension builds right through to a fantastic finale and may even make the watcher ask themselves what they truly believe. A definite watch.