<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00003CXI4">The Legend of Bagger Vance</a>This is a film with many levels, some of them pertinent for our current economic situation, and how it affects us and our families.  Another current issue addressed is that of the returned soldier, how his life has been changed and whether he can meet his demons and let them determine his future life or whether he can find a new path through "the rough" and get himself free.  Then there is the love story, and whether the soldier and Adele, the "sweet young thing," will return to each other now that the war is over.  Before that can happen, however, Adele loses her father, and is no longer "daddy's little girl;" but someone who must save her father's dream, as well as his financial legacy, while standing on her own two feet--not an easy "feat" in the years between the end of World War I and the depression.

Then there are the characters, all representing different aspects of life, as well as the game of golf.  There is Bagger Vance, played by Will Smith, a caddy, an African-American, sort of dusty-looking but who somehow fits in, in spite of the overwhelmingly white world in which he finds himself, and also given the time and place during which the story occurs.  Perhaps it is his unfailing devotion to honesty that makes others sit up and take notice; perhaps it is his ability to see the good in life when things seem at their darkest.  Nonetheless, Vance is looking for work in his chosen field--golf--in the very depth of the depression, who comes upon Matt Damon, the returned soldier and former amateur golf champion, but a man who unfortunately cannot find his swing and has no clue as to where it can be found.

Smith and young Harley--a young actor whose name I cannot remember, but who plays his role brilliantly, not only helps Smith find the golfer's swing, but who in doing so, leaves his boyhood behind, learns the meaning of responsibility and discovers the respect and love for his own father that he had somehow lost along the way.  Even Jack Lemmon shows up in this film, playing the aging Harley, who helps us discover who Bagger Vance may actually be.

There are other roles in this film, some played by veteran character actors who allow us to enter life at this time in our history, and who make it real, whether we are golf players, "golf widows" or people like me, who know very little about the game of golf, but who have seen this movie again and again and never tire of it. Give yourselves a treat, and purchase this movie; you'll not regret it.