I used to consider myself a film purist but I guess I no longer can because I really enjoyed this 'digital noise reduction' version of the film.  That's because the excessive DNR was noticeable mostly in the first 10 minutes (before they got to the jungle) and for a few scenes outside of that - scenes which had incredible amounts of grain which is why they look bad when they were DNR'd to death in this release - but I imagine they would have looked worse, and more out of place, if they weren't grainless like the rest of the film (Ah, but film grain is good, and it should have been left in - in the first place - right?  Yes, I'll elaborate later).  For film, grain IS good.  Grain basically 'is' the detail in the film.  There's no denying that.  I already have the 2-disc Collector's Edition DVD, which I've watched many times so I know how grainy it looks.  It never bothered me because I understood that that's how the film was shot.  The thing is, the original Blu-ray release of 'Predator' used a poor codec and the disc was only single layered.  So, the compression artifacts made the grain look even worse.  People complained, and FOX came out with this release.  If they did it right the first time, and used the proper codec and bitrate (due to having the 50GB dual-layer disc that they have now), I'm sure there would be a lot less complaints.  But, they screwed up the first time.

Wanting to satisfy fans and milk this franchise for all it's worth (since they left out all of the special features on the last Blu-ray), they decided to "clean up" the picture, put back all of the special features, and give a little sneak peek to the new 'Predators' movie.  It was a good business strategy, but film purists would not agree.  At first, I was very against the idea of this release.  But hell, Amazon was offering it for $13.99 and I always wanted to own 'Predator' on Blu-ray (with the best picture possible and all of the special features), so i decided to give the disc a try.

The first scene of the movie looks excessively DNR'd.  I'm not denying that at all.  However, I'll live with that since the rest of the film looks BEAUTIFUL.  It looks like it was shot yesterday.  I know, I know.  It wasn't shot yesterday.  It was shot in 1986 and released to theaters in 1987.  The film stock used was cheap, hence the film should look grainy.  I know that.  But damn, the picture looks so gorgeous now.  I still have my Collector's Edition DVD for when I want to be a film purist and see the picture in all of its grainy glory.  I wanted the film on Blu-ray, and I wasn't about go to buy the original release which was more like an upscaled DVD.  If the movie were released, grain in tact, with the proper codec and bitrate, I would have bought that.  I feel that this disc is the lesser of two evils.

If you want the movie to look like it did when it was in theaters, please, go and buy the lovely 2-disc Collector's Edition DVD.  If you want the movie to look like it was shot yesterday, buy this release.  I've seen the movie enough times to know how it's supposed to look.  If you can get over the first scene looking excessively DNR'd, then give this release a try.  I've included a page with some comparison shots of later scenes in the movie (to see the comparison, check out the 'Comments' section).  If you prefer the grainy pictures, buy the DVD or the original Blu-ray.  If you prefer the 'clean' (DNR'd) image, buy the 'Ultimate Hunter Edition' Blu-ray.  Aside from the first scene (the infamous shot of waxy looking Arnold - which really didn't look as bad in motion on my TV as it did in the screenshot), there really aren't too many parts of the film where detail is lost due to the DNRing that took place.  I know, grain is detail, but I'm talking about the lack of sharpness that can occur when too much DNR takes place.  That doesn't really happen at all, aside from that first scene.  Give the screen shots a look and judge for yourself.  The detail looks very well preserved, which is the ONLY reason I recommend this release.  If the whole movie looked like the first scene did, I wouldn't go near it at all.  But, the picture quality ends up being pretty damn amazing, albeit artificial (since I know what it SHOULD look like).  Like I said, I think this release is the lesser of two evils, especially since I don't think FOX will re-release it AGAIN any time in the near future.  The lossless audio (DTS-HD MA) track is amazing, the special features are great, and the picture quality (artificial, I know) is astounding.  If you are a film purist, stay far away.  If you don't even know what DNR means and you just want a nice looking movie, you won't be disappointed.

On a side note, the menus can be a little annoying.  They are very Predator-like, but they take too long to navigate and while you fastforward, an image pops up on screen showing you what chapter you're on - this is the only disc I have that does this.  That stuff was only a minor annoyance that doesn't really detract from the awesome disc.

In summary, I normally wouldn't recommend such a DNR'd release like this, but since the only HD alternative was the lower bitrate (and worse codec) Blu-ray that was already released (with no extras), this seems like the obvious purchase - especially since the DNR is only distracting in that first scene.  Once the action starts, the film looks beautiful - and the sound is amazing.

PLEASE CHECK THE 'COMMENTS' SECTION FOR A SCREENSHOT COMPARISON!