I'm actually going to start with the story itself first.  Who fans know it, and I think there's generally some great affection for this.  However if you're NOT a Who fan I'm not sure, despite what many speculate, that this is a good introduction.  There is a LOT of Doctor Who history which you're assumed to know to understand how the same character is being played by 5 different actors in the same place at the same time (or nowhere in time technically).  It is also not representative of the normal stories because of the need for getting all the major characters on the screen.  Additionally while the three most classic villains of Doctor Who (The Master, the Daleks, and the Cybermen) are in this (and us Who fans like to see them) they are hardly menacing as when involved in their own plots to gain intergalactic domination.  For novices this story was made to celebrate Doctor Who and in many ways succeeds for fans, but I think is not a good introduction for people new to the series, unless of course you have a fan to talk you through it.
For fans though there are some great things.  First of all we get to see the different regenerations of the Doctors interract with each other.  This is ALWAYS hilarious.  While each Doctor had their own manner and sense of humour in dealing with their companions, it's absolutely hilarious to see how much they dislike their other selves.
As noted above the top Who villains make cameos, but not at all satisfying ones.  Teh Cybermen and the lone Dalek just aren't threatening without their own specific plans for world domination.  The Master is a bit better and has his moments but even he is rather tame in this episode.
Naturally we also get to witness pathetic assistants (usually female as is the case in Doctor Who), some witty yet cheesy one liners,and some cheesy special effects.  However for people not familiar with Doctor Who, these are actually all part of the appeal.  Much like older Bond films there are things that might make one wince in real life that are priceless to see on the screen.
Personally as they're only 2 other stories with multiple Doctors this is a rare treat.  The banter is at times priceless, but for me there was something else that made this a fantastic DVD.
The commentary by Peter Davison (the 5th Doctor) and Terrance Dicks is wonderful.  To have the man who largely wrote the story and one of the principal actors discussing script choices, rapid edits, shooting conditions, and of course BBC budget limitations (notorious, and often explanatory for the cheesiness found in Doctor Who as well as Blake's 7 and other British science fiction).  From experience some commentary tracks are dull or of questionable value (Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon imho) but this is one of the BEST ever!  Davison and Dicks don't just tease others but take themselves to tasks for things that they wished they could have done better.  Marvelous!
I whole-heartedly recommend this DVD, but be aware that it is not a truly first class Doctor Who story, but a Doctor Who EVENT.  For newbies I really urge you to look elsewhere.  Watch a classic episode or two, but if you get this as your introduction you may be confused and nonplussed by the villains to go much futher.  It would be a shame...