Slick, cool, stylish. Danny Ocean is going to rob three casinos in one night, all of which are owned by the same man. To do this he's gonna need a team, a team of the most lighthearted criminals on the planet. They'll need wits, they'll need brains, and they'll need a heck of allota character developement.

From director Steven soderbergh comes an extremely fun, if not rather confusing story about a bank heist, the likes of which you will prbably never see again.

For the sake of being honest and fair I think I'll start on the negative note. This film is sprinkled with some small problems, the largest of which is that the viewer has to stretch their mind like laffy taffy in order to understand the endings twist. The reason this flaw does not ruin the movie is because it doesn't really change the outcome, fortunately for anybody who doesn't want to hurt their minds just to understand the film.
One of the smaller flaws of the film is that it often relies on face-recognition in order to understand what is currently going on. A viewer might have t ask somebody "who is that again?" to understand a specific scene. All the negative parts of this movie revolve around lack of clarity, though this does not, in anyway ruin the movie, or make it completely incomprehensible.

Now for the good stuff. "Oceans 11" is filled to the brim with laughs, good acting, taste, style and.., well Vegas. The film dazzles the screen with lights, enough flash to catch the eye, enough class to stay cool.
I must particularly congratulate George Clooney, Julia Roberts, Andy Garcia and Don Cheadle for their contribution to the movies characters, bringing them to life, each with their own distinction. The casting for the film was amazing, all the way down to the small roles. Each character was memorable, and fun to remember, full of personality, but also well developed, so the audience can feel a connection with them.

Overall I would say "Oceans is very much worth a watch, definitely a good movie (and series) to watch in the summer, at the beach maybe.

Maybe even playing some cards....... maybe.

8/10 stars.