Actually, the first time I saw this film I did not think much of it, and by the end, I said to myself; is that all!!?? Well, I must not have been paying attention, or in a bad mood or something, because the second time I saw it, WOW! This is an incredible work of cinema.

The film has an eerie sense of foreboding in nearly every frame.
Lang's home looks like a bunker, and the grounds are lifeless and bleak.
When we meet the major players, there is a tension in the air that we can't quite put our finger on.

This tension builds slowly in layers with Polanski using the actors, their dialog, the buildings, the sets, the pacing, the gloomy atmosphere etc. to create a feeling that something is not quite right.
The memoires themselves seem to have a life of their own, they are a character in the narative.

Polanski said this movie is for adults, he is not kidding.
It's clear that he did not have the American under 25 age group in mind.
There are no explosions, car chases, gun battles, fast close-up cutting, jitter-cam or any of the modern Hollywood gimmicks used as cues to elicit tension and manipulate audience reactions.
Polanski uses slow and deliberate pacing as he layers the narrative. Pay particularly close attention to Pierce Brosnan's performance in the beginning of the film, his demeanor, body language and dialog.

A foreboding atmosphere permeates the entire film.
As an added touch, the ghost writer is never named, and the dialog cleverly tip-toes around it, even to the point of throwing in a little wry humor; "and who are you"? Lang asks, "I am your ghost"!
Lang refers to his ghost writer as "man", "he always says that when he can't remember someone's name".

There is a stark realism to this film, everything is logical and all the story pieces fit together in a way that could actually happen.
This is not a "larger than life" farfetched action thriller yarn.

The film is loaded with subtle clues and nuances' in the acting, and the final 30 minutes is sheer cinematic gold. Reminisant of Hitchcock at his best. The scene where the note is passed from person to person until it is finally read by Mrs. Lang is wonderful. This is the work of a master filmmaker.

Don't be too put off if you don't like it the first time, it's the kind of film that you really need to pay attention to everything. The second time around it will make perfect sense.
Polanski dots every "I' and crosses every "t", the film seems uncomfortably real leaving no gaps of logic.
The ending is ironic genius.

At the end, I felt as though this could actually happen, and the implications are staggering.