The short judgment I have on Citizen Kane is that it's a grand masterpiece. It lives up to reputation. Many are the souls of the cinema, surely, who have joyfully hailed it through the years as simply the best movie ever made (e. g. The British Journal "Sight and Sound,"1982; American Film Institute Top 100, June 16, 1998 has it both as NR. 1). They are not wrong, they are not wrong...

That might of course be because of the glowing originality, or the splendor it shows in it's composition, the techniques it deploys, the bald and ferocious statement it ultimately makes on American and Western culture. There could be many things in there that causes the praise.  I primarily go for the substance and the statement it makes while focusing in on Charles Foster Kane's decaying life, more so than the technical aspects.

There have certainly been many other precious movies to appraise, Who's afraid of Virginia Woolf, Annie Hall, The Time of the Gypsies, Short Cuts, Apocalypse Now, Godfather, Pulp Fiction, The Bicycle Thief, Nostalgia, and many others. Notwithstanding these great films I can't deny the fact that Citizen Kane has the staying power and a tremendous impact. To me it comes through most of all as the awesome comment on the cultural life of Western societies, built by greed for money, where newspapers and other mass media supposedly are controlling our lives. The blind faith we also might give those at the pulpits -- the politicians -- is ruthlessly examined as it quickly erodes. What shows is what remains: false hopes and the tragic void creeping inside of us while only living for "Western" materialism that could never help Charles Foster Kane, of which he was painfully aware.

The crash of course on Wall Street 1929, and the ensuing depression years gives historicity. The years following the crash were depressing years indeed, before Franklin D. Roosevelt began "The New Deal". Equally it did damage to Kane's empire.  It's more than anything else though a personal tragedy to witness the inevitable downfall of Charles Foster Kane. First the fall from politics, "caught in love nest with singer". Then fall from marriage of Susan Alexander; the fall from his whole life, eventually left with nothing but a mansion in Xanadu, echoing so clearly the crazy falsity of hopes placed in riches or in comfort of empty materialism. The welth, what will it eventually do for our happiness? Nothing. Then what's it all been worth? You can forget about all the cinematics and the techniques of this picture for a moment while enjoying just the Kane drama.

There really hasn't been a movie quite like it since.

"The Battle over Citizen Kane" gives valuable information and thus accompany the film very well.