I must admit, I had very high expecations for Tears of the Sun.  Coming off the highs of Black Hawk Down, Enemy at the Gates, and We Were Soldiers, I was hoping to see a modern day quality war film in a beautiful setting.  Well I got the beautiful setting.  The rain forest is gorgeous and at the same time claustrophobic, the sunlight streaming through the canopy is beautiful and yet confining.  The march through the jungle to safety with the SEALS and civilians in tow looked truly agonizing.

  However, I simply found it very hard to stay focused on this movie.  I wanted to, I really did.  I love war films, and always enjoy a good Bruce Willis movie.  He played his part here adequately I suppose, but I just wish there was a little more depth to him so I could have cared if he lived or died.  The film attempts to set up some character development early on, but ultimately fails as we never really get to know any of the brave Navy SEALS enough to start liking them for begrudgingly saving innocent people.

  Monica Bellucci is also satisfactory in her role of the good doctor who won't leave her patients behind to die, but satisfactory doesn't mean I enjoyed her performance.  If anything she came across as slightly unemotional.  And I have yet to figure out, what's up with her and Bruce Willis in this?  Are they potential love interests?  Is it just wishful thinking?  What do those long glances mean?  The film never digs beneath the surface here.

  I found the action sequences disappointing overall.  The assault on the village in the rain was well done, being the high point of the film for me.  The payoff at the end was just nonexistant.  Special effects were only decent, and paled in comparison to modern war films.  Let it be said, I am not a gorehound (I enjoy Gettysburg for all of its nongraphic violence as much as anybody), but I detest in films like these when instead of spending a little time to add some realism to the movie, the filmmakers opt to just have those extras pretend to be hit by bullets and fall over.  Any special effects director or CGI master can make something blow up on camera, but when there aren't even any squibs to point to as evidence of bullet wounds,I roll my eyes, especially in this day and age.  The battles were simply not rousing - I didn't feel apprehension, didn't sit back when the credits rolled and finally let my breath out, didn't have to remember to start blinking again.

  I am being slightly harsh with this movie, and I know it, mainly becaue I wanted it to be so good, and I suppose that is my fault for expecting too much.  If you take Tears of the Sun for what it is, an action movie with little character development and a happy ending, you won't be disappointed.  I must confess, I rented it once, was not overly impressed, and yet found myself watching it again a couple months later.  And if and when my war movie collection actually gets cooking, I wil eventually have to add Tears of the Sun to it.  Take that for what you will.