You may find "Sleepers" to be just be a well-acted, provocative legal/psychological drama.  However, beware.  This purportedly true story just might sneak past your guard.

Robert De Niro is, well, Robert De Niro - always worth watching.  But this is not a Robert De Niro film.  
With "Sleepers" you won't just HEAR about past rapes of boys by slimy prison guards.  "Sleepers" makes you experience (no male nudity shown, thank you) the Hell's Kitchen of childhood mental and sexual devastation.  (I think that Joseph Perrino, the young "Shakes," deserves an Oscar.)  
When the movie does a 15 year jump ahead, you are still feeling what they thought they had been able to leave in their past.  Major message of the movie - you don't get past your past by trying to avoid it!!!!  (That's an exclamation point for each "boy.")  The next scene, when John (Ron Eldard) bumps into scumbag rapist former-guard (Kevin Bacon) in a dive diner, shocked me as much as it shocked John.  John looking at himself in the bathroom mirror may be the most powerful single event in the movie.  
A close second is when narrator "Shakes" gathers up the courage to go visit his father in desperate hopes of telling his own dad what was done to him while in the juvenile prison.  His father is just not on the same page, and Shakes closes back up without telling him.  Wow.  If that scene doesn't move you.......  
As an attorney, I particularly liked Dustin Hoffman's defensed attorney come-back (required by awesome character, King Benny).  Hoffman's unassuming cross-examination of the only unmurdered rapist guard is one of my favorite courtroom scenes of any movie.
The movie's ending is either a flaw or a masterful choice by director Barry Levinson.  "Sleepers" takes you from tragic childhood to tragic adulthood, but the very final scene is a flashback to pre-trauma childhood.  Perhaps this ending is an offer of hope that innocence can be regained.  Perhaps it's a thrown gauntlet, to challenge those who need to restart from the beginning - if we can.