I've suffered through some pretty bad movies in my time, and usually by the time they're over, I just let out a mental sigh and think, "Boy..that sure was a waste of time." But the strangest thing happened not only AFTER this movie, but even *during* the movie as well. I actually found myself growing more and more angry. By the time it was finished, I felt like not only had I been robbed of more than an hour of my life that I'll never get back, but I actually felt..I don't know...INSULTED. Yes, insulted. Insulted that anyone would think that literally throwing together a steaming pile of feces like this would be entertaining, and that we would be glad we paid for it. Insulted that whoever did it thinks that 99% of their audience are going to be gorehounds who delight in the sight of people literally being ripped apart, overandoverandoverandover again. Insulted that whoever did it thinks that 99% of the audience are brainless adolescents who delight and revel in mindless, pointless dancing and gratuitous nudity, overandoverandoverandoverandover again.

Now, don't get me wrong, I'm not a prude, I'm a middle-aged, red-blooded male, but C'mon, it seems that most supposedly 'scary' movies these days focus on nothing BUT gore and nudity. It doesn't add to the story, when it's being done overandoverandoverandover again. Moderation, M-O-D-E-R-A-T-I-O-N!!!!!!!!!!!

Also..and I'm not going to throw any spoilers out there, there are plot-holes in this movie that will have you rewinding, just to see if your imagination had played a trick on you, or thinking maybe you had been paying too much attention to the nudity to notice something amiss. LAUGHABLY bad plot-holes.

Do yourself a favor, don't be fooled by the 4 and 5 star reviews, they were either bought and paid for, or were relatives/employees/friends of the people who made this pathetic excuse of a film. I can't BELIEVE Richard Dreyfuss even made a cameo appearance in this one.

This isn't one of those movies that's "so bad it's good". This isn't one of those movies you will enjoy just because you are drunk or stoned. This isn't one of those movies you'll enjoy sober either. It just sucks. Period.

-500 stars, if I could.