I am going to say right up front...I AM NOT AN ADAM SANDLER FAN.  And Kevin James doesn't light my fire either usually, I don't watch his tv shows.  BUT this was different.  Yes the premise is a bit silly but, news flash, this is a comedy.  How many are based in reality?
The movie Strange Bedfellows with Paul Hogan is similar.  If you get beyond the "Who would do that" ideas you get to the theme of men loving their friends and trying to help them - they don't have to be overly bright (because there are other ways to solve the problems, of course there are). This is a well paced movie, it gets to the point very quickly.  Of course some characters are over the top but they are off-set by Kevin James and surprisingly by Adam Sandler.  I have to say a memorable character is the son - who can do the splits and is into muscial theatre...hmmmm.  I don't like the minister who marries Chuck and Larry in Canada (Canada are sooo enlightened they allow marriage not just domestic partnerships or civil unions).  It is quite racially stereo-typical and offers a jarring note to me.
What made me spit the coffee?  Ving Rhames acts like a homicidal axe murderer...you are just waiting for the point he explodes, you can practically see the steam coming out his nose as he glares and snorts at people.  Then Chuck and Larry are exposed as gay...horror. No-one wants to play with them at the fire station anymore...basketball, showers, work etc.  Alone of the basketball court Chuck gets confronted by the potential axe murderer Duncan and puts up his fists ready to be...well let's face it he would be slaughtered.  But lo and behold he gets a hug and Duncan comes out.  Did that make me spit coffee?  No, that was the aaawwwww moment.  The coffee needed to be cleaned up because of the shower scene, it starts of giggle funny and ends up wiping up the coffee funny...it is worth getting the movie just for that scene. I have decided I like Ving Rhames.
For the guys there is the Jessica Biel scene were Chuck has to authenticate, in her bedroom (and she is in her underwear), that her breasts are 100% natural...he gives them a very good test...very thorough.  It is literally a touchy feely moment.  She of course thinks he is one of the girls (because consensus is that Chuck is the girl in the relationship - the kids even say so).
What the movie shows is that if you change category in the eyes of the world for some sections of society the 'closed' sign is immediately erected.  Chuck and Larry were no longer wanted in their shift at the station.  Larry was no longer needed as a parent at school camping trips or little league...he is still the same person no matter who he bunks with but for some who you snuggle with determines your eligibility as a citizen in their closed little world.
The deleted scenes and gag reels in the bonus feature had me laughing out loud too.
I like this and I am not into comedies, really don't like slap-stick farcical movies.  This is a cut above - the performances of the main characters are solid, I am surprised.  Other characters were over the top but I suspect that is how they were written rather than the actors themselves.  Not going to become a fan of Sandler or James anytime soon but am a fan of them in this movie.  There is some star power here, and it is played to good effect.  Enjoy, and remember don't put food or drink in your mouth for much of this, you will just have to clean it up off the floor, walls, coffee table...