Be warned there may be unintentional spoilers.

One thing I must mention before getting to the review is the amount of negative criticism aimed at this movie.  It is probably the only movie supporting pro-American sentiments among the plethora of anti-American ones.  And like pigs to the slaughter, liberals beat this thing down like like a whack-a-mole game.  But when conservatives assert their views over liberally biased movies and news/television shows, we are considered ignorant, stupid, unintelligent, (apologies for redundancy).  Thank you Zucker for this film, and it's too bad you decided against a sequel.  It doesn't help that this movie was shown in an extremely small amount of theaters, thus assisting in its money shortage.  Yet movies with liberal bias can't find enough theaters to infest.  Now on with the review.

In short, I liked this movie.  It was short, entertaining, and quick with the humor, both verbal and slapstick.  Farley acts in comparison with his late brother, the only thing that may have made this better, would have been seeing David Spade by his side.  I always hoped Kevin would gain a staring role.  Maybe this will help him, maybe it will hurt him.  This movie doesn't preach war mongering, but the idea of fighting is suggested as needed at the right times.  This movie is a conservatively biased movie, yet they use John F. Kennedy, a Democratic President, as a Jacob Marleyesque character.  Conservatives are not out to destroy the world, they simply accept that like a school yard bully, words are not always the answer, but they can be a good place to start.

Like "A Christmas Carol" Farly's character deals with three ghosts, Kelsey Grammers ghost being the one most seen.  In the end, like in Dickins original, Farley sees the "error" (obviously depends on your political views)of his ways and changes, thus avoiding death and saving the lives of 20,000 people at Madison Square Garden after inadvertently assisting a terrorist earlier on and throughout the course of the film.

The overall plot is silly, and if you read too hard into it, you may have trouble enjoying it.  But in my opinion this is a must see for conservatives, especially if you have had enough of the America bashing Hollywood scene.

P.S. College professors beware, there are insults aimed at you during the course of this movie.