The colors in Akira Kurosawa's "Kagemusha" re-emerge bold and saturated on this DVD, with images bordering on hyper-realistic. The 1970s film stock retained a fair amount of grain, but it's rendered harmless by the raging colors. Wear is at a minimum, limited to some speckling and spotting. The film unspools letterboxed at an aspect ratio of 1.85:1 (with enhancement for 16x9 monitors). The stereo sound is as good as it gets with a foreign film of this age. The taiko drums roll out just like thunder while the rush of hooves fills the listener's room.

Stephen Prince, commentator on the Wellspring DVD of "Ran," the director's other color epic, gets the nod again on "Kagemusha." The author of the Kurosawa book "The Warrior's Camera" repeats the feat of lecturing with authority and verve throughout the lengthy feature. Prince points out where most of the cuts were made for the shortened U.S. version of the film, accurately calling the complete presentation found on the Criterion DVD "a richer and more organic presentation."

"Kagemusha" works on a surface level as a take on illusion and reality, but those wise enough to dig deeper will need Prince's help. The commentator provides the historical orientation that Kurosawa rushed past, baffling his foreign audiences.

Disc 2's extras lead off with exec producers George Lucas and Francis Coppola looking back on Kurosawa and "Kagemusha" in 19 minutes of interviews filmed last year. Kurosawa captured violence in a "poetic surprising way" that schooled the young American directors of the 1970s, Coppola says. "You could trace a line backwards from `The Godfather' to `Bonnie and Clyde' to Kurosawa," he says. The Japanese director "always had a great story to tell," Lucas adds.

Some of Kurosawa's 200-some storyboards for the film reappear on the DVD in a split-screen comparison with finished scenes. In a fun extra, Coppola clinks glasses with Kurosawa in an odd TV ad for Suntory whiskey, a pitch clearly ... lost in translation. A 40-minute episode of the Kurosawa documentary series "It's Wonderful to Create" runs down the story of the production, in which the director stunned local fans by firing his popular star, Shintaro Katsu of "Zatoichi" fame. (Katsu dared to bring his own film crew to the set on day 1.)