No one is arguing whether it's ok to accept God's rewards. That's a moot point. C.S. Lewis' needed to get a reality check. We're merely stating that you need to take the focus off of the "me" and place the absolute focus back on God, period! This is the real world with Christian struggles, not a Christian fantasy land of verbose semantics and philosophy. So here is THE BEST real-world illustration I have: When I worked at EMC Corporation in "the real world", I had a lunchtime conversation with a Christian brethren in which he praised God greatly--greatly--for his dad's $10,000 gift. He stated that God was good to his family and that he felt immensely blessed. [Does this sound familiar, in your particular life?] He was so tickled. I rejoiced with him. The following day, during lunchtime, he told me that he became infuriated when he found out that his "non-Christian" brother also received a $10,000 gift from his father. With his anger boiling over (literally, beet-red face) he emphatically stated, "That [reward] belongs to me!!!" I would never forget that moment, the voraciousness of the anger that came from a Christian. It was a subtle reality check, as I realized then that we've all become desensitized in our Christian walk...I leave you with a couple of thoughts. In Hebrew, when the phrase "kingdom of heaven" is used, it is a phrase that has been transformed into an idiom that most often means "people of God." In the beattitudes, when Jesus said, "Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." Jesus meant that of those whose hearts yearn for their Lord and Savior, they shall be called the "people of God". You see, God sets those people aside to become His bride. You don't inherit the kingdom of Heaven. Interestingly enough, as human beings by nature, we seek rewards. God seeks us, His kingdom. Learn to be godly. Lastly, in the real world, when Christians pray for God to bless their finances, how many of them would prefer to hear the words "Ka Ching! Ka Ching!" over their spiritual well-being? It's a rhetorical question, that can be answered if authors would more often reference Jesus in their discussion instead of someone like C.S. Lewis. Here we go, Jesus said, "Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God." Jesus was referring to the rich man's selfish attitude, not the status of the rich man. After all, your mind is a "Civil War Battlefield" in which Satan attacks (picture a Civil War Battlefield). I'd like to ask a rhetorical question to all of those who think that talking about rewards in heaven is a good thing. So, here it is: As you stand before God, and He gives you a choice between collecting the rewards you've amass throughout your Christian walk, or to give them up and refocus your entire life on bringing others to Christ, which would you choose? If you pray that God would guide your life towards the latter selection, then lose yourself COMPLETELY. How your Lord chooses  to pay you (method, plan, or criteria) for your day's work in the hot field is ENTIRELY up to Him, so why are people writing books about this? My father and mother are non-Christians. I am a first generation Christian. My only desire is for them to know and accept Christ as their Lord and Savior, not to lose their souls to Islam or Buddhism, in the real world. That said, if my Father rejoices in heaven to give my parents a greater reward in the end, as the angels shout with joy over their salvation, it is His will.