I have now watched this film several times on pay-for-view, because I find the details about operation of the fashion industry absolutely fascinating.  Although the documentary centers around the production of the September issue of Vogue, with the "human" element provided by the different styles and working relationship of the editor, Anna Wintour, and creative director, Grace Coddington, what we really see in this film is how fashion works and styles are made.  The designers design, but are also influenced by the business interests, represented in the film by Anna, the Conde Nast publishers, the Gap and the President of Neiman Marcus (who wants his deliveries on time!).  Moreover, as Grace Coddington, the artist, says -- if the magazine (and clothing) doesn't sell, the artists will have no place to practice their art.  So business and art go hand-in-hand to create Vogue, and the marriage isn't always an easy one.

The magazine is built, literally photo by photo, on photo "boards."  As editor, Wintour must keep the whole issue in mind, balancing stories, developing themes, and instructing the stylists who go out on shoots.  In addition, with the help of her editors, Wintour must keep her eye out for new designers and fashion trends.  It's a multi-billion dollar business, reflected in a few hundred pages of editorial work and advertisements.  Yet at the same time, fashion is sociology, psychology and art.  The editor knows this, which is why she excels at her job.

Many reviewers have commented that "human" side of Wintour comes through in this documentary.  Yet, disappointed assistants aside (and you know what -- it was one of the best jobs in the world -- what was her problem?), I've always believed that Wintour's demeanor and attitudes are no more harsh than that of any top executive running a successful, mega-dollar corporation.  In that respect, fashion is no different than auto production; the executive has to wear many hats and always consider the bottom line.  Wintour is running the top fashion magazine in the world; she'd be an idiot (which she surely is not) if she did not strategize and play tough.

The big surprise in the film, however, and the Vogue editor who steals the show is, of course, Grace Coddington.  I have to say that I had never heard of Grace.  Yet I see that, if Wintour is the heart of Vogue, Coddington is the soul.  I agree with Wintour; Grace is a genius.  She comes across as a true artist: sensitive, warm, open, testy and rude at times, angry when her vision is not appreciated; yet endlessly creative and very beautiful.  I loved her untamed red hair, long black dresses or pants, and sandals.  While I'd expected that Cutler's film would be fun and and informative, Grace was a treasure that I hadn't anticipated.

So I've now ordered the DVD (but from B&N, not Amazon -- I wanted the extra DVD).  This documentary is a keeper.