I experienced repeated viewings of this movie on a widescreen in Montreal's art theaters of the early 80's, at the height of my love affair with Robert Altman and Leonard Cohen.  At the time, neither of these artists could do wrong, so I wondered how the movie would fare 20 years later.  Would I discover I had been infatuated blindly in my youth?  Or would my ardor be re-kindled?
I found I have less patience for some of Altman's mannerisms: Camera shots that linger on irrelevant close ups as if the camera wandered off and got lost, scenes where cast and director seemed to be jamming and can't get the magic to happen, and abrupt cuts that disrupt the flow of the movie.  It is as if Altman gave up on some scenes and moved on even though they didn't quite work.
However, most of the time, the magic is there.  The opening credits show a hunched rider bundled from the relentless sleet in a huge fur coat ride though a breathtaking wilderness.  It's beautiful and raw, but not romantic.  We see McCabe (Warren Beatty) bumbling through his attempts to build a whorehouse and gambling saloon:  a man with entrepreneur spirit and vision, but hopeless at business.  The townspeople, deftly sketched with Altman's trademark overlapping conversations and ensemble sets, rally behind McCabe without really connecting with him.  Soon, more people come to town, including Mrs. Miller (Julie Christie), the tough Madam who has the business sense that McCabe lacks.  When McCabe bungles the ultimate negotiation of his "holdings" with a large mining company, he misses out on the big cash payout and has to face the bounty hunters sent to get him out of the way.  The town deserts him and Mrs. Miller sinks into an opium induced dream world.
We see the town buildings grow from the timber of the great northwest (the carpenters on the sets must have had a ball), and small hovels change into cozy wood paneled homes.  The photography catches the rain, snow, dark clouds and dazzling sunshine and colors of the northwest, as well as the actor's terrific performances, and the fated arc of McCabe's rise and fall.
In the end, Altman doesn't give us neat answers.  Why did the townsman rally to save a church run by a minister who mostly ignored them, while deserting McCabe who brought them prosperity?  Was Mrs. Miller found of McCabe, or was it just a business relationship?  Was McCabe just a bumbling man in the right place at the right time, or did he have some unique entrepreneurship?  I have my answers, just as you will have yours after watching the haunting, beautiful movie.
The DVD transfer appears rather grainy to me (I remember such crisp images from that large theater screen), and the sound is dim (Leonard Cohen's songs are distant and I really had to crank up the volume).