If you are looking for a very happy review, one that bestows the ultimate accolades on this film, I suggest you turn off your PC now, as this is not one of those reviews.....

Before I get into the overall review of the film vs the books, keep in mind that as a stand-alone film, the movie is very good. As the first movie adaptation for this popular book series, there are some issues (and in saying "issues" I mean "what the heck were those crazy screenwriters thinking rewriting such a great story in the first place?")

Jim Carey as Count Olaf has to be one of the best casting choices ever. Carey IS Count Olaf in every sense of the word. He captures the sinister character brilliantly, and the make-up is spot on with the books renderings. In fact, the children and the bulk of the cast are all very good choices, mirroring the books very closely.

The music is outstanding and the imagery of the film looks like a joint-project between the late Edward Gorey and Tim Burton. Olaf's tower, the Reptile Room, and the house along the lake come to life in vivid detail (and when I say "vivid" I mean "holy cow this looks even cooler than I could've pictured it when reading it"). The closing credit animation is also worth watching as it is fantastic (again, think Edward Gorey).

This movie would've been almost perfect, had I not read the first three books. Here is why I can not give it 5 stars. The books, written as they are, are perfectly suited to a screenplay with no real changes needed.

Why they decided to chop up the first book, drop the wedding play (only to appear at the end of the film randomly), segue into a rail crossing segment that never existed in the books, mess around with the second story somewhat, and throw in a completely unrelated "spy glass" plot and secret society of people investigating arsons (to which the parents, uncle, and aunt were all part of) is beyond me. Throwing the wedding play from the first book into the film's end, again changed considerably (Olaf tells Violet to sign with her correct hand, and Klaus saves the day by burning up the certificate with a magic eye prism from Olaf's tower before the crowd) ruins the flow of the film, and will annoy loyal readers. Not too mention, the happy ending of this film, which tops a series of unfortuneate story changes in my opinion. Now, I have yet to read beyond the first 3 books, so maybe by book 11, the ending is happy. But it is quite out of place in the context of this film.

So, if you watch the film ignoring (or having not read) the original storyline, it is a very enjoyable film (and by "enjoyable" I mean you'd much rather watch this film than finish your vegatables). If you are expecting the film to follow the books, you may find a bit of the film annoying and inaccurate.