Ok, I can't really review the new Blu-ray edition of 'R&M's High School Reunion'.....it hasn't even been released yet, DUH.......but I have to imagine the HD transfer will be excellent, and I HOPE it will have a fistfull of special features included, we'll see.  Really, I'm just here to testify that R&M, from the first time I saw it in 1997 and in each of the probably dozen viewings since, remains one of the funniest 'guilty pleasure' films of all time!  AND it has a heart of pure gold at the center of all the hysterical post-high school hijinks.  The vintage 1980's New Wave soundtrack alone is worth the cost of admission!

Lisa Kudrow and Mira Sorvino dive into their characters with a fearless gusto, creating iconic (if slightly moronic) 1990's versions of clubgirls who are BFF's since high school, and continue to be the essential supports for each other's sometimes fragile and yet utterly unwarranted and overblown self esteem. It's kind of ironic, and more than a little pleasureable watching two of Hollywood's brightest and most generous actresses portraying such completely self-absorbed, delusional characters!

The rest of the cast is equally brilliant and deliciously funny.  Janeane Garofalo is wicked as R&M's fellow high school alum, a nicotine-addicted, angst-ridden, goth-girl who just can't get past her loner status in HS, even though she's gone on to create success for herself following her heart....or rather her cravings. Cameron Mannheim seems impossibly naive, young and vulnerable playing the classmate who was involved in everything, and annoyed the hell out of the rest of the class. Alan Cumming is literally unrecognizable as his character morphs from nerdy HS geek to Billionaire mogul.  And on and on, the cast of largely at the time upandcoming actors seem to really enjoy playing their parts as if they were hitting for the outfield fence....which could go wrong in another film, with another script or another director, but here it just adds layer upon layer of comedic icing to this cinematic confection!

I won't go into all the plot turns and contrivances, but suffice to say R&M is chock full of funny (and occasionally sweet) scenes providing a look into the minds of these young women who refuse to see their rather mundane lives as anything less than full blown exciting, and their exuberance is contagious!  Can we just talk a minute about the dance club scene early on in the film, where R&M, disappointed at that night's prospects in the club, decide to dance together, and casually step out onto the dancefloor, launching in a perfectly synchronized and choreographed disco pas de deux???

YES, I love Romy and Michele---I always have and I always will.  They NEVER fail to brighten my spirits.  Rock on, Girls, and welcome to HD at last, you deserve it!