There are some films that manage to simultaneously warm the hearts of moviegoers and break them. "Blue Valentine," the first major film from writer/director Derek Cianfrance, plays tug of war with your heart for its entire running length. It is a stunning debut from Cianfrance that takes a familiar tune and strips it down to its most raw and unflinching form. This is a film that lives and breathes, as we experience the flames of love being extinguished before our very eyes by the harsh realities of life.

"Blue Valentine" stars Ryan Gosling and Michelle Williams, two of Hollywood's most talented and courageous actors, in a very low-budgeted, non-Hollywood film that centers on the rise and fall of a young couple's relationship, as they fall out of love after years of marriage.

The film begins in the present, and then skips back and forth through time, showing the young couple at two different times in their relationship, from first time that they met to their now doomed and dissolving marriage. Structurally, this can sometimes be a distracting and confusing ploy to make a story of falling romance seem more interesting than it is. That is not the case here, and the film is wonderfully edited.

Gosling plays Dean, once a childish but devoted guy who has no big plans for the future except to keep on living each day, waiting for whatever the world has in store for him. He is a nice guy, but as the films reverts the present, we see that being a nice guy is not enough to sustain a happy marriage.

Dean's tendency to sit back and be content eventually becomes too much for Cindy (Williams) to deal with. She is a charismatic girl in the beginning who wants to be a doctor one day. When she meets Dean for the first time in the nursing home where her grandmother lives, and where Dean, working for a moving company, is moving in an elderly man, their eyes connect. In that moment, the two actors make us believe that this is something special.
These scenes in the past are so wonderfully acted, as the naïve and passionate lovers connect and embrace, make love and share each other's dreams.  These passages in the film make it all the more painful when we are reminded of the present, where the passion and honesty are dissolving at a rapid pace. They also have a daughter named Frankie (Faith Wladyka) who was not planned, but who is accepted and loved deeply by her feuding parents.

Told in a linear fashion, I think "Blue Valentine" would lose a lot of its substance. The big question of what went wrong is never explicitly answered, and I am not certain there is one answer. There is so much authenticity and power in the performances, particularly Williams, who does the most challenging and brilliant work of her career. To pull off the small jump in age (10 or 15 years) that she and Gosling perform effortlessly here seem like it would be incredibly difficult. We are so emotionally invested in Dean and Cindy's lives that we don't doubt it for a second.

"Blue Valentine" stirred up quite a controversy in the movie world when it initially earned an NC-17 rating from the MPAA for a scene of explicit sexuality. After a successful petition, the rating was rightfully dropped to an R. It's a silly thought that in our society, movies like "Piranha 3D" and "Saw" that contain such gratuitous violence can pass with R-ratings, but as for sexuality (GOD, LET IT NOT BE SO!) there is so little tolerance to spare.

This film is a work of art that realizes that in life, there are few easy paths to take. Many questions go unanswered and many days pass unremarkably. From what I have come to understand, the method by which Cianfrance and the two stars handled the material was through much improvisation, which allows for spontaneity and authenticity if handled well. Williams and Gosling are so astonishingly intense and real in this movie that at times it is difficult to watch.

But those who can stomach the searing performances will experience a tremendous story of found and lost romance, and one of the best films of 2010.

GRADE: A