Seems to me Lucas was once an idealist of the juvenille sort in the early 70's. Science fiction is not very easy to do. It doesn't matter whether you're writing books or making movies, you basically have to create a world in the future (or some alternate space and time) but the only knowledge of physics you have are those of the world you live in. Lucas himself says that this is not a movie about the future, but from the future. Even though I'm not a fan, I have to applaud the man for what he did here. To create the elusion of the future, Lucas the writer makes sure that at least seventy-five percent of the plot doesn't make a lick of sense (that's a good thing) and Lucas the director makes sure that we wander through the world in a languid pace with a pale color scheme. This is all done so we recieve the effect of receiving cinema from "The Future." This is effective real SCIENCE fiction (not just something that focuses itself on gizmos for geeks... ahem STAR TREK), a few scenes and images have power, Duvall immerces himself into the role, the movie has life to it, but it doesn't have a lot of depth to it. While the details are wonderfully incomprehensible, the base of the vision (or its core, whatever you wanna call it) is pretty simple, dull and repetitive, some safe bourgoise intellectuals would call it "Orwellian" that isn't a good thing in my book. The supposed vision is that of a society that submits its inhabitants and works in itself as a machine, scrapping its parts once they no longer function correctly, these parts just happen to be human beings. This notion doesn't contain a lot of punch these days, everyone from the hamfisted Orwell to Pink Floyd have done it with varying degrees of success, Lucas is pretty juvenille to make this his center or his central "message." But there is a redeeming factor if you've followed Lucas's career, since Hollywood is itself a machine-like society as depicted in THX where most movies are made in collaboration with various elements of the machine, no director in hollywood is a ble to start by depicting his own vision without having to collaborate, with prducers and businessmen, so individuality in Hollywood is almost non-existent, yet If you as a filmmaker would like to make films on a big budget it is the only way. The only filmmaker that is probably able to work in this system and project his own vision is Sir Ridley Scott, but he is to be discussed at another time. What I'm getting at is the irony of knowing how Lucas completely immerced himself in his latter years inside the type of environment that he sermonizes against in THX, spending the latter years of his life stealing from Kurosawa, making tons of money over the work of others, and immercing himself in collaborating himself and being welcomed into the machine (I wonder if he ever listened to the Pink Floyd song). Those are of course only my thoughts on the man, I can only distinguish his career choices. With all the factors, I still recommend this movie to fans of REAL SCIENCE FICTION and those who want to see a talented film maker still taking risks before his descent into the fiery furnaces of riches beyond imagination and universal praise.