Well, having finally gotten a "round tuit" it is time to write a review on Romeo and Juliet, starring Margot Fonteyn and her understudy young Rudolf Nureyev. You see I am using her name first, when most everyone else puts his name first. She was here first and besides, she's a Lady, with a capital "L". I am not going to mention that she was forty-five when this ballet was filmed, and I don't want you to even think about her age. Just think of her as a ballerina dancing the part of a young girl, not quite ready to marry someone she doesn't even know, much less love.

Since this ballet was filmed in 1966, you might think this DVD would be of poor quality, but actually it is very good quality. I have seen ballets filmed in the 21st century which have much poorer quality. The resolution is good, the color is good and the sound is, the sound is, the sound is OK, but Mono. Most filmed versions are going to be in good focus, with good color, etc. It is the transfer to another medium which causes poor quality of reproduction. This IS a filmed version, done at Pinewood Studio, so you won't hear pointe shoes or applause, but you do hear sword play in the fight scenes. The running time is 130 minutes, with the complete score. There is a scene by scene synopsis, biographies of the principles and the composer, plus a history of the music. Oh by the way, they do add some "canned" applause at the end which is sort of tacky.

For once, Nureyev is not made up to be more beautiful than the leading Lady, like he was in their version of Swan Lake. This ballet is good enough to be your only version if you only want one. You certainly need something staring this famous couple, and preferably one in which the male part cannot outshine the female part. There are lots of good R&Js on the market, but none with better dancing, which is why we buy these ballets. This version is loaded with talent besides the principles, like a gorgeous Georgina Parkinson (now with American Ballet Theatre, and recently playing the Queen Mother in their Swan Lake) as Rosaline, Anthony Dowell, Monica Mason, Jennifer Penny ( A beautiful "Manon" with Anthony Dowell, her lover), and Gerd Larson, just to name a few.  You won't go wrong, buying this ballet.........Richard.