In this part of the "Be Still" website (http://www.bestillprayer.com/?content=faq), it clearly states that "BE STILL introduces a form of Christian contemplative prayer called "Lectio Divina" (which is Latin for "sacred" or "divine" reading)."  FYI, Lectio Divina "is ordinarily confined to the slow perusal of sacred Scripture, both the Old and New Testaments; it is undertaken not with the intention of gaining information but of using the texts as an aide to contact the living God." In addition, "A person can linger over even a single word or phrase for an indefinite period of time after which one moves on to further slow and careful reflection." Both statements from www.lectio-divina.org.

These are absolutely unbiblical statements and absolutely antibiblical prayer techniques.  The Bible is entirely True (Psalm 119:160), spiritual food for the true born again Christian (Hebrews 5:12-14), and necessary for Christian Sanctification (John 17:17).  To promote using the Bible for babbling mantras and gaining extrabiblical information is NOT what God intended it for.  Moreover, all Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work (2 Timothy 3:16-17).

Finally the very title of the video is taken (out of context) from Psalm 46:10.  The Hebrew word for "be still" is "raphah."  In it's true context it literally means, "stay put," or "don't move hastly" in reference to man's attempt to help God end wars in the earth.  The verse does not suggest an exercise for quieting the mind for fervent prayer or dialog with God.  Period.

Do not let the fools who appear in this video stumble your walk with the Lord.  Contemplative Prayer is unbiblical, unedifying, unsanctifying, and unnecessary.  Jesus himself said that the only "stillness" necessary for prayer is the kind you find in your room with the door shut (Matthew 6:6).

The practice of "Contemplative Prayer" is no different than the practices encouraged by Eastern Meditation gurus such as Baghwan Shree Rajneesh, Shirdi Sai Baba, and the creator of Transcendental Meditation himself, Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. I strongly encourage you to research their individual "philosophy" for contacting the living God. They are all (Contemplative Prayer included) actually demonic portals disguised as "Godly" techniques which they are not.