I recently had the good fortune of seeing this classic movie in the German version on screen at the National Gallery of Art where it was shown in conjunction with an exhibit: "Foto:Modernity in Central Europe, 1918-1945". The film was an appropriate companion to the show. It shows the conflict between two ways of life: the first characterized by authority, high culture, and sexual repression, and the second characterized by sexual openness, informality, and popular culture, primarily jazz.

"The Blue Angel" dates from 1930 and features, famously, a young Marlena Dietrich whose performance as the nightclub singer Lola Lola radiates sex. In the film Dietrich sings a song called in English "Falling in Love Again" which became her signature piece. Emil Jannings also gives a stellar performance as Lola Lola's suitor, Professor Immanuel Rath.

The movie is based upon a novel by Heinrich Mann who also assisted in writing the screenplay. The story has many resemblances to the short novel of Heinrich's brother Thomas, "Death in Venice" as it explores the conflict between repressed respectability and sexuality. The movie tells the story of an German professor of English, an aging, very fastidious bachelor named Rath, who visits a club called the "Blue Angel" out of concern that his charges are spending their evenings there to the detriment of their studies.  Rat quickly becomes enamored with Lola Lola.  The movie tells of the relationship between Professor Rath and Lola Lola and how it leads to his deterioration and destruction.

There are many humorous moments in the film as the incongruous relationship takes its course.  The movie rapidly picks up tempo to work to its sad conclusion. Professor Rath's emotional degeneration is marked by the physical changes that appear as the film progressed.  From a well-dressed, punctual and rigidly authoritarian teacher, he becomes late, poorly dressed, embarassing to himself and others, and in sore need of a shave.  When he realizes how he has lost himself through his love of Lola Lola, it is too late.

The raw sexuality of Marlena Dietrich remains the great visceral attraction of this movie.  But in its story of the perils of neglecting and repressing one's sexuality with the attendant cost of falling headwise into the opposite extreme, "The Blue Angel" tells a story both distinctively modern and timeless.

Robin Friedman