First of all, this is not quite a Sherlock Holmes film.  It has Holmes, but no deerstalker cap. no calabash pipe, and no magnifying glass.  It does have Holmes keep observations, and it is loosely based (14% of the film at least) is based on the canonical story "The Dancing Men." Furthermore, it is not set in Victorian England, but during the Blitz of WWII.  If you can get past all of this, it is quite an enjoyable film.

It is essentially a B spy film.  Since it does not focus on Bond's gadgets, or any heroes  super alien powers, you actually get a story that has a Bourn Identity fell to it.  This is what saves the film--you see normal people with keen minds solving a riddle and trying to get the targeting equipment.

As a Sherlock film, it falls flat on it's face.  It is a vague, pale ditto-copy of "The Dancing Men," and is barley a Holmes film  As a spy film, it is fairly good, and is a good family film.  The only objectionable material is there is a torture scene, which, by 1940's standard, is a bit graphic--about 10 years old and over.  However,  Kids see this type of thing all the time while playing HALO.

Most other reviews have blasted this film, primarily for the continuity jump from 1890's to 1940's.  I would remind these people that Holmes is a timeless charter, as the Sherlock Holmes in the 22nd Century cartoon shows.

Moreover, the Nazi blitz was a real thing. Think of the scene where Holmes and Dr. Tobel were walking to 221-B Baker street, and cross over the rubble and bombed-out buildings. The Brits needed this film for the moral. That is why they had that corny speech at the end of the film. This was not a bleached-teethed marketing monkey or airhead exec, but a soul-surge of a people on the brink of a very real and present disaster.

For the die-hard Sherlockinas, I would also ask them to reread "His Last Bow":  He was at odds with the Kaiser.  Having him fight Hitler is by no means a stretch of the imagination.

This is a good Saturday afternoon or rainy day film.