Walt Disney's Brother Bear is a story of a young boy named Kenai, who wants nothing more than to become a man. At a special ceremony, Kenai receives his personal totem- the bear of love- which he finds absolutely un-manly, but is advised of its importance by the tribe Shaman. In his quest to prove he is not the same clumsy little boy his entire village grew to love, he tracks down a bear who had stolen fish from the village. After getting himself, and his brothers, into a spot of trouble, his oldest brother gives his life to save them all. Kenai is so infuriated by his brother's death, he convinces himself the bear is a killer. The movie revolves around the very important lesson that Kenai must learn after he exterminates the bear out of vengeance. From the spirit plane, his deceased brother transforms Kenai into a bear. During his journey, he befriends a bear cub named Koda and a pair of airheaded moose. Kenai gains a new perspective on his life and the life of everyone and everything around him. By the end of his journey, Kenai is ready to fulfill his totem and make the most important decision of his life.
The culture depicted during Brother Bear is known as indigenous ways. Tribes exist today that still follow the sacred ways. Usually, they do not possess much influence when it comes to the big picture; but, these people have had the same belief system for years, sometimes centuries. Due to oppression and a few other factors, religions/cultures like the one shown on Brother Bear have been isolated into scattered groups all over the globe. Most, if not all, have the same basic principles and strongly believe in the spirit world. Respect is of utmost importance, especially to the spirits, nature, and fellow people. Just as pleasing the spirits would earn one rewards, angering the spirits (as Kenai did) brings about great consequences. Kenai had to walk in the footsteps of his enemy to understand that all of life is equal. Only by gaining a true understanding, would he be granted favor by the spirits, and changed back to human form. Although these indigenous tribes are scarce, all the existing global religions could take a note from these people. Rarely is there conflict among the communities, due to their strong family bonds. The environment is respected for its valuable resources, not ravaged for profit. They bide the Golden Rule- treat others as you wish to be treated. Just a thought... CHammonds