I saw this movie the night it came out in the theatre and thought it was awful. Worst than "Friday The 13th" but at least still better than "Texas Chainsaw Massacre," which doesn't bear mentioning. Honestly, no matter what any of us say, I went in with preconceptions and expectations because I was such a fan (actually, a MUCH bigger fan than I ever realized) of the original series. Not many people can make it through the four-hour documentary "Never Sleep Again," which as a side note is terrific. But I did.

I had pretty much decided after seeing the remake in the theatre that there was no reason to ever watch it again or add it to my video library, which even includes VHS copies of "Freddy's Nightmares." However, my 14 year old son INSISTED on buying the blu-ray over the weekend. After fate intervened and the copy of some chick flick with J-Lo getting pregnant or some nonsense that my girlfriend rented refused to play in our machine, I decided to just throw "Nightmare on Elm Street" in hoping that she would be so bored by it that I might get laid. That didn't exactly happen.

She had gone with me to the theatre but had no recollection of seeing it or what it was even about. She remembered that David Cassidy's daughter was in it and that's about it. In the film's defense, she had spent the majority of the movie talking to her sister, who had gone with us, and texting her 17 year old son who was in the mountains with friends for the weekend. But to totally forget you saw a movie six months ago DOESN'T speak well of said film.

My entire opinion changed after watching it a second time. I could have done without the opening scene and find myself curious if the original introduction would have played out better, but I understand the director's decision to go the way he did. I also missed John Saxton's character of Lt. Thompson, but I'm not sure if he would have worked in this version. As a friend of mine noted today, the biggest difference is the fact that in this version Freddy is actually a child molester and not simply a serial killer. Incidentally, that was Wes Craven's original vision for the character, which he changed at the time because of a major story that was in the news and he worried that playing the molestation angle would be inappropriate. And it's that one major change that opens this film to a whole new interpretation.

Whereas the first film was straight forward brutality, this one plays more towards a murder mystery. With the rules basically thrown out the window, we are left wondering if Freddy really did do it. (I will leave this review spoiler-free.) And to me, this new back story actually makes the relationship between Freddy and his victims much more logical. In the original, just as in the original "Halloween" series, we are left to accept that there is just plain and simple evil in the world that requires no rhyme or reason. As frightening as that concept may seem, it just doesn't seem plausible to me. Of course there are people in the world who are just beyond moral comprehension, but MOST of the time there is some event or series of events in their lives that lead to that darkness. I never really bought that with Freddy. He had a sense of humor. How bad can a guy be who's snapping off one-liners like some kind of demonic George Carlin? Not that I wasn't able to suspend belief and just enjoy the ride. And one thing to remember about Freddy in the original "Nightmare" is that he WASN'T humorous. Actually, the humor wasn't added until "Dream Warriors."

As far as the acting in this remake? I thought it was spot-on. I thought Jackie was perfect as the new Freddy and the rest of the cast did a fine job. And not that I'm trying to compare, but did you ever notice that for kids who were being picked off 1 by 1 and who hadn't slept in nearly a week, Heather Langencamp and Johnny Depp look incredibly well-rested? Try staying up for three days straight and see what you look and sound like. And anyone who ever has knows what a micro-nap feels like. So in that respect, I thought that "Nancy" and "Quenten's" portrayal's were accurate. I also liked that Nancy was somewhat introverted and that's what drew Freddy close to her as a child, as he probably felt some sort of morbid connection. And for as horrible a situation as that may be, the scenes with Freddy and the kids at the school make you at least stop for a second and wonder if there must have been some feeling of remorse on Freddy's part because of his seemingly genuine care for the kids. It raises alot of uncomfortable questions and... sorry to say this, folks... that's the benchmark of quality storytelling. And that's truly where the darkness and intrigue of the story lies, as well as the fault of the parents who decided to play God and take the law into their own hands, thus creating the nightmare to begin with.

I will always love the original and hold it in utmost regards, but I definitely think it's a disservice to anyone who doesn't look past the surface of the "remake" stigma and see the thoughtfulness and questions that can be raised about our own sense of morality and justice in the depths of this retelling of a classic story.