The fifth season continued the epic mythology expanse, and arguably pushed it into oblivion.  The end of the Vancouver era, this season (according to me) is where things got a bit too complex for Chris Carter to handle with 100% success.  It lead into the movie, which brought the show a new and larger audience, but never really got a full grasp on it's success.  That said, there are some incredible episodes that need mentioning, and make this set worth buying.
--Redux (I and II): This is my favourite two parter, and one of the best explorations of trust The X-Files has ever attempted.  Everything is remarkable, from Scully's cancer, to the haunting voiceovers.--Post Modern Prometheus: a dazzling slight of hand from Carter and Co.  This modern fairy tale/frankenstein story had one of those moments that fans die for; that wonderful, insipirational, moving ending.--A Chirstmas Carol/Emily:  Not one of the best, but Gillian Anderson's performance is magnificent in this two parter.--Patient X/The Red and the Black: The final two parter of the fifth season, this show is relentlessly entertaining and challenging.--The Pine Bluff Variant: The best 'stand alone' of the fifth season, a well paced and executed suspense show.--The End:  The cliffhanger before the movie.  Very strong conclusion.
  So what do I mean when I say 'arguably pushed it to oblivion'?  The overall season is very inconsistent, with some very weak episodes, that don't measure up to previous efforts (Bad Blood, Kitsunegari, Kill Switch).  Plus, the sixth season (despite a great lead in), failed to generate as much interest.
  The third and fourth season, when taken together, display a rare ambition of an epic nature.  The fifth season fails to live up to the standard set, but this is by no means a waste of time.  If you are a fan, then you probably already know if you're going to get this or not.  If not, then I recommend buying the first four seasons first, (or at least the 3rd and fourth).  If you like it, than the fifth season will be a welcome addition to your collection.