The stark landscape and attendant violence might make this seem real for it's time, but the Indian characters are the same stereotypes we always see coming from Hollywood. It is the portrayal of a missionary that makes this a different film. Nice scenery even in a film which is not well digitized for today's high definition. You will need a warm blanket while watching canoes moving through so much ice and snow. This movie reveals human cruelty in a harsh landscape. It is set among  incidents of violence between groups of Huron and Iroquois peoples during the early contact with Europeans. The film's dozens of Native characters are lightly to moderately developed in contrast to the main character a Jesuit missionary. While he is the main character he is portrayed with a cold aloofness which is fitting his personality, historical role and the landscape setting. Directed and framed with a touch of abstraction it is the horror which makes this story human not some warm fuzzies. The Jesuit Black Robe is sent among North Eastern tribes as a human sacrifice by his superiors. This is a self fulfilling prophesy  revealed through revelations, past and present of his self loathing and in flashbacks of his mother's prophesy. Black Robe is a psychologically dark film which floats the usual raft of Indian stereotypes to a deeper more graphic contemporary stomach turning level. However murderous or sexually unashamed the Natives seem they are bluntly, satisfyingly human in contrast to the starch collared priest who has forever lived in mental torture but never had a minute of pleasure in his life. Or perhaps he has, we can only guess, when we see him beating Mia Culpa's on his back with tree branches following his voyeuristic sexual incident in the woods. Finally arriving at the abandoned mission where he is assigned he immediately gathers an Indian following by telling one less lie than his recently deceased priestly predecessor. Truth being such a rare thing to them we know Indians flock to any white man who shows the slightest improvement regarding the forked tongue issue and he instantly sets about baptizing them all. Should we mention he is greatly helped in this conversion by children who are dying enmasse from fever. The strength of this film lies in looking more deeply into the  mind of a Jesuit missionary and his culture at the time of contact. Recent American history scholars might suggest these fellows were misguided but well intended messengers who brought disease, intertribal warfare and sexual perversion to a people that probably had few struggles in these areas- but after all the Indian probably did deserved it for his violent nature, brought about by ignorance and weakness. Black Robe is not a departure from that formula. Since Hollywood has shifted little in the Indian/White Man Western genera than to add a more sympathetic eye to the Indian side of things, it is interesting to see a film which centers on the missionary mind.