Possible Spoilers Ahead:
I have to admit that I am not a big Adam Sandler fan.  However, I saw the trailers and I was intrigued by the thought of Sandler playing a regular guy to an over-the-top Jack Nicholson.  About halfway through the movie, I had trouble following the storyline.  I think this was due to Sandler playing his mild mannered Dave Buznik character too calm in the beginning.  While I understand the concept of a guy who internalizes his anger (which is why he was a candidate for Anger Management classes), even guys who internalize their anger show some frustration when there are problems.  I thought Buznik's overly calm reactions seemed unrealistic during the entire flight attendant hostility `over the headset' episode.  I suppose Sandler was trying to go for no reactions at first and building up, over the course of the movie, to more obvious displays of anger (like the fight with his grade school nemesis turned Buddhist monk), but he started out so overly calm at the beginning, it was hard for me to understand whether he was acting or not. While the West Side Story 'I Feel Pretty' bit had some amusing possibilities, the Buznik character started well (frazzled at being forced to stop on the bridge and sing for his bizarre therapist), but the singing soon became too much like Sandler doing his singing bits for SNL, and not Buznik trying to placate his therapist so he could get to work.  This may explain why some of the other reviewers gave this movie a thumbs down.  I did find the second half more entertaining, mainly because I thought the Buznik character seemed to be reacting in a more realistic fashion to hostility directed at him.  I didn't mind the final scene at Yankee Stadium, but I didn't think the cameos from the baseball players were required.  While it was nice to see Rudy Giullani, that part could have also gone to someone playing just a regular guy in the stands rooting for the guy to propose to the girl at these sporting events (I didn't think all of the cameos were required - or added anymore laughs to the film).
Overall, this movie has some entertainment value (good as a rental), better for the die-hard Adam Sandler fans.