Chance and circumstance.  Intertwining myth, tragedy of heroic proportion, the fragility of illusion and appearances, this film gracefully exposes viewers to the depths of our bondage to our self-imposed archetypes. Dissolute Writer, The Lustful Boy, The Wounded Mother, The Spurned Lover.  The walking wounded stumble and fall together in this luminous, beautifully crafted showcase for the acting skills of a stellar cast.

I found the most telling scene to be the one in which Eddie, looking up into the face of his lover Marion, sees her face contorted not with the passion of lust but the passion of grief.  Marion's estranged husband Ted later points out to Eddie that he had "given" Eddie to her because of his resemblance to one of her dead sons.  Marion herself had revealed the incestuous/cathartic nature of her desire for Eddie when she almost longingly confides in him her certainty/sorrow that this son had died a virgin, then almost in the same breath invites Eddie to lose his virginity to her.  This act consummates her awareness that she must leave behind her enamored lover, her philandering husband, and her small daughter - that it's "better to be dead" than to be a poor mother.

There was plenty of room for this film to dissolve into cliche'd resolution of conflicts, but instead the story reveals the depth and intelligence and truthfulness of these character's flaws as if peeling away layers of silken veils.  The deft and deep acting skills of the cast are marvelous to behold - it was breathtaking to watch the naturalness of Jeff Bridges as he arises from his bed and walks his tiny daughter back to hers, then stands in the doorway to toss her a few honest thoughts on fear, all the while content in his nudity.  I found myself longing to be that uninhibited.  It was an honor to see the aging actors reveal their characters, line by facial line, to watch the younger actors' romantic, brave, naivte', and yes, thank God for Mimi Rogers showing the desirability, vulnerability, and passion of a mature, healthy woman.

There were no "perfect" characters, no fluffy endings, nothing Hollywood about this film. It did not cheat. I highly recommend it to anyone capable of appreciating their own imperfections, the horrors of surviving your own chidren, and the struggle to understand and accept our human limitations.