"Dog Day Afternoon," an extraordinary movie in its own right, is made even more extraordinary because all of it was true.  This is a movie based primarily on character study, more so than the simple plot.

Here's the basic premise: two men set out to rob a bank, for reasons that become clear later in the film.  Sonny (Al Pacino, in his best performance to date, imo) is the mastermind of the heist, while Sal (John Cazale, equally brilliant) is the brooding follower.  However, the heist goes drastically wrong, and suddenly cops, TV cameras, and crowds surround the bank, and it turns into a circus.  It's a fascinating account of the seduction of celebrity, as evidenced by Sonny, the bank tellers (who want to remain inside the bank and give interviews instead of being saved), and, in a nice touch, the pizza man (who, after delivering the pizza while surrounded by the TV cameras, shouts, "I'm a f***ing star!!")

Frank Pierson wrote his Oscar-winning (well-deserved) screenplay around only twelve scenes, and the movie is 124 minutes, so it's pretty obvious from the get-go that the plot, even one as intriguing as this one, can't support this movie on its own.  This is where the acting comes in.  Al Pacino is wonderful wonderful wonderful as Sonny.  He is adorable in his dorkiness, and gets the nervous face tics, shuffle in his steps, and the wonderful boyish, insecure voice down pat.  Pacino's Sonny is fresh-faced and enormously likable, even as he is robbing the bank (although I think that Pacino naturally exudes this charm and likeability, even when he's playing less-than-perfect characters).  I've seen most of Pacino's films, and I consider this to be his best performance to date, even better than his amazing performance as Michael Corleone in the "Godfather" movies (and that's saying something, because I adore Michael Corleone).  It's definitely an Oscar-caliber performance, and he should have won it that year.  John Cazale is just as good as the brooding, reserved Sal, who is the perfect counterbalance to Pacino's screaming, wide-eyed, excitable Sonny.  Chris Sarandon (Oscar-nominated) is also very good as Leon, Sonny's lover and male "wife".  A very strong supporting cast makes the film even more enjoyable.

I said Pierson's Oscar for his screenplay was well-deserved because of the witty dialogue and extremely well thought-out, bitingly funny, and compassionate scenes.  Take, for example, the very memorable scene where Sonny tell police captain Moretti, "Kiss me.  When I'm being f***ed, I like to get kissed a lot" before shouting, "Attica!  Attica!  Put those f***ing guns down!" at the police, and wins the crowd's support.  The scene is pure adrenaline, and one of the most thrilling and exciting scenes I've ever witnessed on screen.  The best scenes in the movie are Sonny's two telephone conversations, one with his male wife Leon and the other with his female wife Angie.  Director Sidney Lumet claims that Pacino and Sarandon improvised most of their telephone conversation, which is a testament to the skills of both actors, as that telephone conversation is simultaneously funny ("Algeria?  Why are you going to Algeria?  There's crazy people who wear things on their heads") and very poignant ("You're warped, you know that?" "I'm warped, I'm warped, I know it").  Sonny's conversation with his wife Angie is just as good, with Pacino getting a chance to let out his trademark volcanic-ash tirade on her: "Will you shut the f*** up and listen to me!  Just listen to me!"

These wonderful scenes work v. well together, capturing all the madness, poignancy, and compassion of the events.  It's a very well-made movie; the director knows the movie is a superb character-study and wisely sticks to just that, his characters.  One of my favorite movies, and a definite must-have for any DVD collection.  5/5