Attack the Block is one of the best movies I've seen this year. Though it is very much its own movie, I can't help but draw a comparison to Shaun of the Dead. Not because it is also set in the UK, but more because the films are sort of mirror images of each other. Where "Shaun" is a comedy with action and horror elements, though, "Attack" is primarily a horror and action movie with comedy elements.

Rookie director Joe Cornish learned well from Edgar Wright though, because aside from keeping the action down to only what is necessary to tell the story, he also allows the film to slow down at a couple points. Just enough to allow his film to have actual characters, with substance and dimension, not just pointless action-guy schlock. It's refreshing to see these things in any movie released today, since so much has become recycled, rebooted, remade, or sequalized, but especially so for a first film.

And speaking of refreshing, the acting in "Attack" is superb, despite the shoestring budget. John Boyega as the film's lead is exceptional, and I look forward to seeing him rip through future roles. He has serious talent. The supporting cast is all golden though, even though I was familiar only with Nick Frost prior to seeing the film.

For an American like myself, giving advice to fellow Americans, I will say this: You're going to miss things, and some dialog is just not going to make sense, because for the most part we aren't exposed to British slang. I have some friends in the UK, and though I wasn't familiar with many of the expressions, if you keep them in mind from the beginning as you hear them, you won't have any trouble understanding what the slang or expressions mean. And I take exception to a reviewer saying we'd need to have subtitles for an American version or that this might as well be in a foreign language for all we'd not understand. That's just juvenile.

Attack the Block is definitely worth watching if you have any level of interest in science fiction, horror, or action movies. The dialog isn't pandering to non-native audiences (which I appreciated, the alternative would have felt dumbed-down and phony), the acting is top notch, the score is excellent and well-implemented, and at 88 minutes, the film doesn't drag or get bogged down in pointless action. Overall it's a great way to spend an hour and a half.