After seeing all of Jim Jarmusch's films, I have to admit not a single one of them is easy to watch.  All of them are boring and slow, but I love them anyway.  Unlike all his earlier work, Ghost Dog is easily accessible yet still definitely a "Jim" movie.


The subtle beauty of this movie is quickly realized within the first few minutes of the film.  The start of this film is much like his earlier works, usually showing a run down part of a town with music playing overtop.  They seem to be the only shots he uses that have panning and movement with the camera.  After knowing his work, you realize this is because he hates showing the audience what to look at.  It is just one of the few things Jarmusch does that makes him the best.  But, back to the music.  Of all the soundtracks that he has had in the past 20 years, I must admit this one is the best.  He allows RZA (from Wu Tang Clan fame) to add music that enhances every scene, which is different from what he normally does.  These tracks are all awesome, varying from an outright Gangsta Rap song to the weirdest jazz ever created.


The rest of the movie is beautiful in every way.  Jarmusch once again uses poetry to create visuals that go along with his beautiful dialogue.  This movie probably has the most dialogue of any of his movies, yet it still isn't much.  There are things that take getting used to and seem like they are not important to the plot, but for some reason they are just really great scenes. A good example of this is the scene when Ghost Dog and his Haitian friend (who knows why Jarmusch made him not be able to communicate with his best friend?) are watching a man build a boat in an alley for no apparent reason.  There seems to be no logic to this scene, yet it has a certain charm that just adds character to all his films.


This, like a lot of Jarmusch movies, creates a movie that brings together many different aspects never put together before.  In this, he combines Eastern Philosphy, The Dying Mob Scene, and the Hip Hop generation all into one story.  That is something no director could pull off in a two hour movie.


As for the rest of this movie, I can't say enough.  With things like mobsters watching old (and a few Itchy &amp; Scratchy) cartoons that seem to be foreshadowing, how can you go wrong?  Plus, the addition of carrier pigeons as communication, GENIUS!  You must understand that this movie is probabaly his funniest yet (tied with Dead Man) with the addition of Rapping Mob bosses and overall beautiful acting.  Robbie Muller once again proves why he's the best filmographer in the business, Forest Whitaker finally gets a role that he deserves, and Jim Jarmusch strengthens his greatness with another masterpiece to add to his library.