I watched Scott Pilgrim without knowing a thing about it.  I didn't even know it was based on a comic book.  My brothers just sat me in front of the TV and pressed play.

I thought I would cringe because the protagonist is Canadian and the film acknowledges it's in Toronto (I'm looking at you Short Circuit 2). Generally Canadiana content for some reason doesn't normally have the same cache as other countries and comes across...well, lame.  I'm relieved to say that that wasn't the case.  The production value on this film is insane.  It's been a long time since I've seen a movie with this kind of quality and creativity (probably the top of my list).

I definitely wasn't prepared for what I saw.  It caught me off-guard.  WARNING! The movie will cause sensory overload.  I could feel my brain adjusting itself in real time to absorb all what was happening (in a good way).

First the protagonist is not someone you're supposed to empathize with immediately because he is a jerk.  But as the movie progresses, he realizes this and 'grows up' (they did this better than "Knocked-Up", which I hated). Second, the special fx and quirky videogame references were entertaining and fresh.  What I liked was that it wasn't a half-attempt putting in pop and video game culture.  It went all out!  It wasn't afraid to be what it was.  Third, I really enjoyed the music.  Metric's Black Sheep is my current favourite song.

There are a few parts I didn't like (the Seinfeld reference with the fake laugh-track I could have done without)and it did get a bit repetitive.  That's partly the fault of the premise.  The premise is there are 7 ex-s to defeat.  My brain, after the 3rd one thought, "Oh no, they're going to repeat this pattern again 4 more times??".  While it really wasn't monotonous I had already prepared myself mentally for repetition (does that make sense?).

This is a love or hate movie.  There are a lot of references not everyone will get.  Once you decide you hate the style and think the movie is shallow in the first 15 min, you're not going to change your mind by the end.  It doesn't pretend to be deep.  Just fun and creative.

I think the person who said people over 30 wouldn't like the movie is wrong.  It's people in that age group that played these 8-bit video games before they came out on an emulator.

I'm 32, female, and I loved it and all its ridiculousness.
Definitely one of my favourite movies of all time.

(Other movies and shows I like that are of a similar vein - Futurama, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind).