This classic movie occupies at least 3 levels of meaning, which is why I call it a nexus.  It is a religious statement, it is a historical drama, and it is just plain Hollywood entertainment.  It works so well on all three levels that, particularly at the very reasonable price of this 2-disc version, it is worth owning for anyone with even the slightest interest in any of those levels.

From the religious point of view, the movie has the strength (or perhaps weakness) that the producer, the famous Cecil B. DeMille himself, deliberately hewed to the Biblical account, and furthermore, that he occasionally brings in the magisterial wording of the King James Bible in the voice of a narrator.  Not for him the revisionist views of so many of today's clergy, who explain that Moses was "inspired" by a mysterious divine force and thereby wrote the tablets.  No, Mr. DeMille has the Deity Himself speak directly to Moses in a loud, clear voice.  I did not find this annoying; rather, I thought it was a reassuring rock of certainty among today's shifting moral sands.  In the commentary on the second disc, which is worth listening to, the narrator makes it clear that Mr. DeMille believed in God's Law, and our moral worth being measured against it; those who don't measure up would be punished, in this world or the next.  If you don't have doctrinal prejudices against those beliefs, they make for excellent theater.

While Mr. DeMille was certainly a Christian, if you're Jewish, you will not be offended by this movie.  In fact, you will find it both educational and inspiring. Without making you sit through a seder, it will painlessly tell you the whole Passover story, including all that's essential in most Haggadahs, such as the Ten Plagues and even the Four Questions, cunningly worked into a meal Moses presides over.  The miracles such as the burning bush and parting the Red Sea happen exactly as you'd expect from the Biblical account.  In the credits you'll find a Hollywood rabbi, and the Mishnah, one of the Jewish religious texts, listed as references.  Mr. DeMille tried hard to be consistent with Jewish lore.

The movie is history, also, albeit with a twist.  Biblical scholars do not agree when the Exodus actually took place; with so many details in the Bible it does not seem there is much doubt it actually happened, but there is little internal evidence with which to date it.  Even worse, there are no corroborating Egyptian records, which is odd, because Egypt was one of the world's first literate societies and their records, carved on stone or painted on papyrus and preserved by the hot, dry climate, have often survived.  Therefore, it was necessary for Mr. DeMille to pick a time period, and because he wanted a glittering spectacle in his movie, he picked the height of Egypt's power and glory, the reign of Ramses II (1279-1213 BC).  Most historians think that's unlikely, because Egypt was so powerful in that period that having a bunch of slaves rebel and run away successfully strains the bounds of probability; but of course with God helping, the problem is solved, and it makes a much better story.  It is a fact that Ramses attacked Nubia at the very beginning of his reign, just like in the movie; likewise, he married Nefertari (Nefertiri in the movie) when he was quite young. She died some years later and he lived on to be about 90, Egypt's longest reigning Pharaoh, marrying other women, but Nefertari was his favorite wife and their relationship in the movie might be close to historical reality.

Likewise, the costumes and architecture are straight out of archaeology, making use of materials excavated from tombs and the Ramesseum, the huge temple the historical Ramses actually built.  The construction site in the movie not only had thousands of extras moving materials around in a very authentic way, but its design corresponded to one of the monuments known to have been built in that time period.  In short, Mr. DeMille made sure his details were as good as they could be within the knowledge of his time period.  The Egyptian archaeological service is also listed in the credits.

Finally, the movie is a love triangle with Ramses and Moses competing for the attentions of Nefertiri.  That Moses has a mission from God that transcends his attraction for Nefertiri is something she doesn't understand till near the end of the movie, and of course Ramses doesn't either, fuelling his jealous rage.  That Moses isn't seriously tempted by her is another measure of how old-fashioned this movie is.  No shades of gray here!  The miracles, especially the death of the first born children, are carried out with special effects that are still rivetting, although not as overwhelming as those in more recent movies; remember, when this movie was made there were no computers.  Animation had to be by cartoonists painting frame by frame.  Anyway, the story reaches its destined conclusion, and although it's quite a long movie, it doesn't seem to drag.

If you haven't seen it, a treat awaits you; if you have but it was a long time ago, you might still enjoy watching it again, perhaps with your children.