Many a long year has passed since a movie impressed, charmed, and touched me like _Whisper of the Heart_. Those with preconceptions about anime might be surprised to discover that this is not primarily a comedy or an action-filled melodrama but a finely detailed, believable portrait of modern junior high school students in Japan, with all the ambitions and insecurities, the longings for adventure and for love, that young teens almost anywhere might feel. In fact, it brings to mind a coming-of-age television series called _The Wonder Years_.

In _Whisper of the Heart_ the protagonist is a winsome, vaguely self-effacing girl named Shizuku--a bookworm whose encounters with a mysterious cat, an old man, and a boy with hidden talents prompt her to discover her own undeveloped gift for writing. The occasional insertion of a brief dream sequence lends an extra element of fantasy and visual variety to a strikingly beautiful movie.

Such were my initial reactions to _Whisper of the Heart_ as dubbed into English by the Disney studio. The DVD edition, however, provides other choices: watching the film as it was first released in Japanese (with or without English subtitles) or even viewing the original storyboards--more than a thousand pencil sketches by Hayao Miyazaki, which flash by in synch with the soundtrack of your choice.

The Disney dubbing emerges as a characteristically slick feel-good movie. The infusion of American slang is reasonably effective, the voiceover acting even more so (with a few exceptions), and the surround-sound audio mix more elaborate than in the Japanese version. In some scenes, the dubbed version actually has more dialog than the original, as characters keep talking when their faces are turned away from us. The moralizing is perhaps more explicit than in the original--the message that students need to study hard, just as artists need to labor at their craft--yet it is inspirationally presented. Though many visible details reflect Japanese culture, young viewers could easily forget that they were watching a foreign picture.

There is one distasteful moment in English where Shizuku calls the cat a rather vulgar name that has no equivalent in the Japanese script (most parents will not object to the word, but it would not pass muster in my classroom). Even more cringeworthy is the line where Cary Elwes--who is supposed to play a supernaturally wise, urbane, gentlemanly character--unintelligently mispronounces "lapis lazuli." The gaffe is all the more obvious since at the end of the previous scene, a few seconds earlier, Harold Gould pronounced the term correctly. Speaking of gaffes: David Gallagher mispronounces his own character's name; at best, he Americanizes "Seiji Amasawa" in a way that no other cast member does.

Early in the film, a significant plot point involves Shizuku writing new lyrics to the John Denver song "Country Roads." Watching in English, we can't help wondering why the student is rewriting the song for her middle school graduation (but months ahead of time). Her version--to the extent that we can make out the words--has nothing to do with graduation, nor does it sound like remotely capable writing. In the original film, it makes sense that Shizuku is adapting the American song into Japanese and, in the process, making a poetic statement about life as a lonely and uncertain road.

What no one seems to have noticed is that the Japanese and American editions have startlingly different plot resolutions. By modifying and adding just a couple lines of dialog, the Disney team have given us a satisfyingly predictable Hollywood happy ending (details under "Spoiler Alert" below). The Japanese ending is more bittersweet and potentially more haunting. Which one best fits the story becomes practically a litmus test of viewer preference and personality.

And just when I would like to say "Skip the Disney dub and watch the film with subtitles," it turns out that the DVD spoils the Japanese version (and not the dubbed one) by cropping off the top of the image during the entire epilogue, which is wordlessly played out during the closing credits. The viewer is simply unable to see the final interaction between the young heroine's friends Yuko and Sugimura.

A sufficiently dedicated viewer might watch the film in Japanese and then watch the closing credits of the dubbed version. Unfortunately, finding the credits requires using both a chapter stop and a fast-forward button. The film is indeed a heartwarming and visually impressive masterpiece, but unless the recent Blu-Ray release has corrected the problem with the Japanese credits, an ideal DVD edition has yet to appear.

SPOILER ALERT: In the Disney adaptation, handsome young Seiji ultimately returns from Cremona, Italy, eager to explain that his mentor has pronounced him a potentially gifted violinmaker who will still need years of practice. Being sensible as well as sentimental, Seiji has realized that he really wants to attend high school at home in Japan with Shizuku. After finishing high school, he will be able to pursue his dreams in Cremona; once he is a famous violinmaker and Shizuku is a professional author, they can get married. Shizuku teases him for sounding a little corny, but as the sun rises, they have their whole lives optimistically planned out.

In the original script, however, the Japanese dialogue makes clear that Seiji has returned to Tokyo a day ahead of schedule to attend his junior high school (middle school) graduation ceremony. Within a few days, he will be leaving for Cremona to resume his long-term apprenticeship. As they cling to each other under a single jacket, he and Shizuku both cling to the touchingly juvenile hope that someday, in the far-off future, they will marry each other. Of course, the implication may be that just as Seiji's grandfather lost touch with the young woman he loved as a student in Germany, Seiji's youthful crush will not withstand the test of time and distance. This reflection gains significance as he shouts the final line of dialogue--"Shizuku, I love you!" Perhaps the reaction we see momentarily on Shizuku's face goes beyond startled or astonished embarrassment. Is she not concerned, alarmed, even pained at the same time?