This was a great film. Unlike ANY others on the subject, both in what was presented and how it was acquired and what other possibilities it might uncover and what the implications might be. It is exciting in and of itself without needing the usual dramatic special effects to make it that way.  And it has value for a number of reasons ...one in revealing unusual and surprising information (even for those who have other research on the subject) NOT revealed before and surprising to most...while leaving you to assess for yourself what that information means to you. The methods shown of the acquiring some obscure and yet very relevant information, was interesting (for some i know, it kept them on the edge of their seat), highly informative, and extremely thought provoking  and even more so, if you have a mature desire to really know the historical, spiritual and scientific truths that might affect our perceptions of reality and our individual life journeys.

So, everyone at all interested in this subject, should see this and would benefit from its presentation of information that everyone has a right to have access to, but up to now didn't, to this extent, even with some of the other good research already done both popular and obscure.  I think it suggests and questions what the evidence shows rather than imply that anything at this point is absolute and conclusive and that it was designed to do that...so any criticism that it is overdramatic and it doesn't prove anything is sort of out of place and is missing the real message inherent in the manner of presentation of the material and intent of the film itself.

Done the way it was, viewers are given the opportunity and encouragement to think for themselves and it does not claim to prove anything at this point and time...but does show information, interviews and experience shared that most do NOT HAVE access to and SHOULD and should want to if they want to know the truth (the whole truth that is).  I believe that it also encourages independent thinking and soul searching as to what the implications are IF certain things are true that we may not have thought about before...as well as open discussion of things typically hidden or suppressed. It further encourages the questioning of long held beliefs and dictates to see if THESE ARE SOUND AND PROVEN OR JUST SOMETHING WE DO ACCEPT AND CHOOSE TO BELIEVE and if we do question ...where the answers to those questions can be found along with what are the repercussions of that to ourselves individually or as a collective consciousness.

 Isn't that the purpose of most documentaries?....to  expose or show possibilities and probabilities and even to suggest further exploration of these without necessarily claiming the knowledge thus far to be absolute or conclusive? So i don't think anyone can criticiZe it on it's validity of the evidence that is shown or the value of it's being meaningful and provoking to a mature, intelligent, mind, as well as exciting and potentially life changing for us who do see its implications and continue to learn and refine our ability to assess what any sources of information tells us.

Everyone i know who saw it did not want to miss this opportunity to see this kind of documentary on this subject. The BEST that I see that this film has to offer is that IF what is presented here as evidence of certain possibilities IS TRUE and if it CAN be proven beyond a doubt it IS....it's implications are profound and important to all people everywhere, regardless of individual beliefs and historical claims of the past.  For that alone we should find ourselves worthy of such an opportunity to experience that which someone found value in searching out and presenting to us.

Finally what the producers of and contributors to this film gave of their knowledge, minds, thought provoking insights and personal experiences shared is of high quality OF HONESTY AND COURAGE and INTERGRITY along with extremely high level of dedication WHEN UP AGAINST GREAT CHALLENGES, greater even that what is often the qualities of works produced on this subject.

I can say this without hesitation or assumption, having viewed the film in a theatre and having met and spoken with the producers/ director in person where additional information and insights into it's creation were revealed to a much greater extent than could be acquired from only viewing the film itself. After that, I saw it several times over and  with a more expanded and deeper understanding each time, of what was going on that might be missed in just one viewing.

For this reason I would want to own this DVD TO VIEW OVER AND OVER again and to revisit, as new information and conclusions are drawn along the way from whatever sources. This will mean so much more once you view the film and once you see what i cannot say in words without giving away what should not be said out of context as part of a sequence of events that took place in the making of the film.

What makes the film most interesting ....beyond the subject matter...is the UNEXPECTED that occured and what direction each bit of information or experience took the inquisitor every step of the way. You almost experience/ live the journey with him...and it is NOT ACTING and NOT FICTION because it is a filming of something as it is happening.  So it is more than a documentary.  It is both a journey and a documentary and an unveiling and it is history in the making. I hope many more people see this film and i think it makes a great gift.