In truth, I can only really reccomend this movie to real fans of punk rock or Penelope Spheeris ("The Decline of Western Civilization", etc.). Others may not understand it so well. If you like punk rock, you'll have fun with this - the concert scenes are a HUGE bonus. It is a nice little "coming of age" tale, though, and is, dare I say, heartwarming in some scenes.

The movie "SLC Punk" (1999) borrows a lot from this movie but is a lot better made. They are interesting to compare, and you could make a nice punk rock movie night out of the two titles. I'm not saying one is better than the other, just try comparing them. Oh, and they both have phenomenal soundtracks (again, if you like punk, try them, they have a lot of classics on them).

I have had this movie for several years now on VHS - I got it for Christmas when I was younger from my Dad. My friend told me about it, and I was really excited to see it because it was supposed to depict life in the early 80's for a group of punks in California. I, being the little rebellious punk girl trying to relive the 80's LOVED the movie despite its many flaws.

The movie starts by focusing on Ethan and his life in a broken-home. After he runs away he is taken in by a group of rowdy punk rockers at their "suburban-hell" squatter house which is in an abandoned neighborhood. They treat Ethan well and respect him, and soon he brings his younger brother to live with the group so he can have a life away from the chaos their alcoholic mother creats. Then the movie begins to focus on the group as a whole and a new girl who arrives and falls in love with one of the group's members. T.R. ("The Rejected") begin having conflict with the local "law enforcement" and citizens because they believe T.R. is dangerous. You'll have to see the movie to find out how it ends.

Some scenes are very funny (Such as harassing the local yocals at the market - "Happy Easter!" and asking a housewife at a garage sale if she's "got any vibrators?" - the look on her face is PRICELESS!), touching, and sad (I cried at a few points), and look out for a young Flea from the Red Hot Chilli Peppers as a member of the gang. Like I said, the concert scenes are a DEFINATE PLUS - D.I. perform "Richard Hung Himself", T.S.O.L. perform "Darker My Love", and the early Vandals play "Pat Brown" in a very humorous live set.

To be honest, though, it is not well made, does not stand the test of time, and the acting leaves a lot to be desired, and also some of the things seem very unbelievable and outrageous today, but it has a special place in my heart because this is a movie that I grew up with in the punk rock scene. I gave it four stars because, if you are a fan of punk rock, you will enjoy this movie even with it's campy acting. It's fun.