Everyone's allowed to flop now and then.  No matter how surprisingly.  I'm pretty big on Adam Sandler.  He was integral in championing the glory days of SNL.  His humor is sick, perverted, and offensive - to some people, that is.  Me, I find myself laughing myself half to death at the most shallow of toilet humor when engineered by Sandler, whereas 99% of society looks stupid and superfluous when the execution of this type of humor gets into the wrong hands.  If you think NOBODY can pull off a fart joke that's actually funny, make sure you check out his first two cd's before nailing the coffin.  They get old, but thankfully it takes a while for that to happen.
Then came his movies.  One after another, legions of Sandler followers attended a decade's worth of 90 minute comedies which were diverse in storylines but similar in format and style.  Fans couldn't have cared less about most critics' "2.5/4 ish ratings."  Adam Sandler was and is a big pioneer of the kind of random humor that made big shots like Conan O'brien famous.  Many don't get it, so they dismiss the Adam Sandler catalog entirely, though not before using some of the adjectives I demonstrated in the opening paragraph.
But then came this movie.  I missed it in the theaters, so I rented it instead of buying it - smart move on all accounts.  The first time I heard Whitey in the courtroom, I thought it was Adam's ("Stone"'s) main character just changing his tone of voice amidst his rantings with the judge.  In due time, my brain recovered and realized that Adam was actually voicing an entirely different character.  This is a huge joke - and not the kind that Sandler was going for.  I've heard much better, and more contrasting, and much FUNNIER voices on his cd's, and basically anywhere else outside this project.  Huge mistake #1 is having your two main characters have almost the same voice.  It's as if the one character is just speaking in a higher voice the whole time, and it's not convincing at all. In other words, that's one strike for poor acting.
Huge mistake #2 is the plot.  Whenever you've got animators involved, it pains me to see a great technical effort wasted on a failed delivery of entertainment.  A promising youth gone bad after tragedy strikes - that's what briefly takes the main character on the tried-and-tired-to-death path of needing to confront his emotions.
What audience is this geared towards? It has the aspirations of a child's movie, which would make it more forgivable, but that notion is quickly dissolved as soon as we start seeing the stereotypical Sandlerisms that always randomly invade his work.  Ok, not for children.  But the 3rd grade plot makes  a viewer who is any older than that want to beg for 74 minutes of his life back...  
The movie's so short, barely over an hour, but 15 minutes into it I felt like time was moving so slowly, I was back in highschool.  That NEVER happens with the always creative Adam Sandler, as he always keeps you involved... well, now we've got to change that to ALMOST always.  I hate to say it, but Adam made a boring movie.  What a time to have writer's block.