Hitchcock was "The Master of Suspense." His films were famous for combining action, big stars, Bernard Herrmann music, suspense, and even traces of wry and subtle humor. However, in his long career, Alfred Hitchcock only made two films that can be classified as total comedy. One was 1955s The Trouble With Harry, which was a black comedy, but still definitely a COMEDY. His only other comedy, he made 15 years prior to this, in 1940. He made the film as a favor to a friend of his. That friend was Carole Lombard, the undoubted Queen of Screwball Comedy. She had read the script and fallen in love with it, yet she couldn't find a director, so Alfred Hitchcock agreed to do it for her. The film was Mr. and Mrs. Smith, and it starred such comic legends as Carole Lombard, Robert Montgomery, Gene Raymond, and a young Jack Carson.
Mr. and Mrs. Smith is the story of a bickering, but non-the-less happily married couple. In the films hilarious opening scene, the Smiths are locked in their bedroom. It seems that they have a set of rules they follow each time they get into a quarrel. They lock themselves in their room and do not come out until the fight is solved. One time, they stayed in the room for 8 days. When they finally solve the dispute, they sit down for breakfast, where they are as happy and as "in love" as ever, but rule number 7 permits Mrs. Smith to ask Mr. Smith a question, and she asks him, "If you had to do it over again, would you have married me?" He tells her how much he loves her and how happy he is, but he concludes by saying that married life is too much for him, and that if he had the chance, he wouldn't have married her. At first a little disappointed, Mr. Smith soon comes to see that her husband really does love her, and he goes to work happy, and she blissfully starts the chores.
Unfortunately, a man comes to Mr. Smith's office and informs him that because of the fact of "the town is across the river and is in one county and has been considered in another county, but the other county isn't in the state" that Mr. David Smith and Mrs. Ann Smith aren't legally married. The laughter and humor keep rising after he is kicked out of the apartment and has to live in a local men&iexcl;Çs' club. Each gets a temporary partner and after a hilarious restaurant scene, a crowd of three is off for a weekend in the county in the uplifting conclusion of Hitchcock&iexcl;Çs classic Screwball Comedy.
Marvelously scripted with beautiful and flawless performances by all the cast, Mr. and Mrs. Smith is a breathtaking and fast paced classic. Although not typical Hitchcock, his traces are still evident. There are small incidents of suspense, a small chase scene in a department store, a stalled Parachute Jump in the rain at the World&iexcl;Çs Fair, and some great chemistry and rapport between the stars on the screen. If Carole had not died tragically a few years later, in 1942, I would not have been surprised if Lombard and Montgomery had made more films together. Looking at them here, how can one have doubt as to how successful they would have been?