I have already written a review on my thoughts on this film but just wanted to add that this IS classic film making not a superfical action or monster film.

Sure M.Night is a ego manaic who really enjoys making what he believes to be masterpiece's and is probabely a tyrant to work with but the man does deliever old style story - telling, film -making and adds a few modern twists.

In other words, the man does deliever different and classic films in the tradition of the old film makers like Alferd Hitchcock.

I studied the movies and life of Hitchcock when i was in university and M.Night himself realtes Mr Hitch as one of his favourtite directors. There is a clear connection to the two

However, M.Night has he own style and man, can he add emotions to even the simplest scenes. His movies tend to make me cry like a baby and i'm not a cryer.

And for &8&8 sake can people stop relating everything to The Sixth Sense. I mean it prob one of his best films and certainly touched a larger auidence but the guy does have more to offer than this and its a tad unfair to always compare every movie he makes to that one really but him on the map. When we live in a world of fast, cellioud, popcorn movies, it is both re-freshing and important to embrace films that have directors who can make different, thought provoking films that actually make you think and question - not just eye candy for the eyes.

Granted his films ARE slow moving, they CAN tend to make people question some of his logic, they CAN even bore people to tears but man, can he write a story that you both think and talk about for days after. He is a story teller first and film maker second and has demonstrated 4 times now that he can deliver on both.

Six Sense was a introduction really to M.Night (yes i know he made two films prior but im talking about the commerical films only). UnBreakable was never going to live up to the 6th Sense but still delivers a interesting, fasinating story that held me to the end with a conclusion that was so obvious but yet not expected by me. Signs was a major commerical hit and once again deliver a fine story that was excuted in a way that just oozed emotion and interest for any viewer who likes a good story and film-making. Lastly The Village provides another great tale with brooding emotion. M.Night likes to make a set/or the environments isolated i have found and we tend to focus in all his movies on a very claustphobic environment that just sucks the intellegent viewer in.

I have come to realise that people always concertrate on the suspense, horror and twists of a M.Night film and maybe thats why some find them slow and boring. But what the man SHOULD be awarded for is his ability to create a great emotional drama. I truely believe this man can film a person standing in a field and induce so much emtion somehow from the scene that it makes yah eyes tear up. M.Night is a serious film maker who develops emotional stories first and adds the supernatural elements second.

As far as i am concerned he is a modern day filmaker using old style filmamking in the tradition of Hitchcock and his films stand out from the wham, bam movies of today. The films are about story and emotion not effects or explosions.

Pesonally, in real life, the man would prob drive me nuts with his ego and need to write , direct,act and gloat over his films but i respect him for his clear talent in film making and ability to make a film that stands out in a Western Culture and his sheer passion towards making his films.

In regards to The Village, i say this.....a brillant film that moves slowly but constintely and will hold for those who appriectate a good tale with dramatic flair.

And as i said in my movie review....THIS ISNT A MONSTER FILM, TIS A DRAMATIC PIECE WITH A SUPERNATURAL FEEL.....so if u want a monster film that will scare the pants off you this aint it. But if u want creepy, spooky and at times damn sad then this is for you.

Keep it up M.Night !!!!