This review concentrates both on the quality of the DVD and that of the film itself.  For the most part, the picture is clear and evenly lit.  However, there are about 14 scenes where the picture quality is devastatingly poor.  A constant "popcorn" effect during these scenes makes the average VHS quality look superlative.  It is somewhat jarring since in some scenes as camera angles change, the quality of the image changes drastically, whilst still within the same scene.  Night scenes and close-ups are especially horrid.  
Now the film....Don't get too hung up on plot.  In fact, I would suggest watching the first ten minutes then fast forwarding about 25 minutes, then stopping once again and fast forwarding for another 15 minutes.  You get the picture.  There are so many scenes that serve no purpose.  Not only do they not advance the plot, but they actually weigh down the picture.  They also are not particuarly stylish and are sometimes actually painful to focus on.  DePalma tries his hand at comedy in a few of these scenes with nauseating results.  Not only are the actors ill-suited for comedy bits, but they clash with the seriousness of the main characters struggle.  And forget about character development...you'd be better off creating a little background for each character on your own.  Andrew Stevens' character supposedly went through some kind of metamorphosis in this film, and thank god some other characters chat about it casually because who the heck knows how he got from point A to point B.  
In addition, Pino Donaggio and Bernard Herrmann are sorely missed.  John William's score, though dramatic, is only dramatically boring.  
The two stars are for the well-orchestrated paragon institute escape scene and amy irving's telekinesis scenes, and depalma's selection of carrie snodgress for a small role.
This one is only for DEPALMA heads.  You'll have a good time picking up on DePalma ripping off his own films and spotting DePalma regulars such as Denis Franz, William Finley, &amp; Charles Durning as well no-names at that time, Laura Innes, Darryl Hannah, Melody Thomas Scott and James Belushi. If you're looking for DePalma's best, try Blow Out!, Carrie, Dressed to Kill, or Obsession.