Rather than restate the plot, I'll counter some arguments about why people didn't like the movie... adding in a few comments why I thought the film was valuable.
First, I give the film points for having characters which praised intelligence.  That includes all Will Huntings hoodlum friends.  I'm sick of these low grade ghetto movies, where the poor inner city kid shuns book learnin' cuz' their going to sell "crack" for a living and drive a jacked up BMW.  Example: The scene where Chucky (Will's best friend) tells him "No offense, but if your still hanging out with me in 20 years, I'm gonna kill ya.... You have something all these guys (construction workers)here would kill for (Wills great intellect)."
Secondly, the film gave great exposure to the field of mathematics, which was the subtle background plot of the movie. You'll note that no mathemeticians publicly decried the movie; so you shouldn't either.  It amounts to good exposure, and implied that you can be "cool", but still be smart.  The recent film, "A Beautiful Mind" gave even better exposure to the field of mathematics, but unfortunately the characters mental nature sort of took a little bit away from that :-)
Thirdly, criticism is people say that nobody can possibly know so much about so many things (math, chemistry, history).  Nonesense.  It is not at all uncommon for geniuses to have an affinity for books and subjects of all types.  The comment that nobody could be that smart without it being noticed is totally 100 percent bogus.  First off.... everyone noticed.  Who didn't?  All Will's friends knew it.  Also, we live in a world where many people "slip through the cracks."  This works both ways.  Usually it means that dumb people manage to make it through classes because teachers cut them some slack... but on not so rare occasions, it works the other way.  There are alot of very smart people in this world who end up being janitors for a living.  Just look into the statistics of the MENSA organizations.  Geniuses come from all backgrounds.  Scholarships to MIT or Caltech aren't just handed to people on a silver platter.  The scholarship fairy doesn't magically show up at your door.... and clearly, as was the whole plot of the movie... will obviously wasn't going out of his way to bring his talent to the right peoples attention.
Final notes:  Minnie driver... just gave me the creeps.
... and that grad student who followed the Professor around
for the ENTIRE movie!  Whats the deal there, if ya' know what I mean....  My favourite lines:  "Why shouldn't I work for the NSA?" ... "How da' like them Apples."... and "R-E-T-A-I-N-E-R"