Robots is a great movie for the family to watch all together. The whole concept of talking robots and the animation was something to watch. Knowing the director and the producer, it is amazing to see how well this movie was put together. The plot was really suitable for children. The characters are funny, which is the whole idea of this movie. The story goes like this...

This robot named Rodney Copperbottom has grown up not as the richest family. His parts are hand-me-downs, and his father is a dishwasher working at a restaraunt. Rodney has had an inspiration for many of his childhood years until after he finishes college. His inspiration is a fat inventor called Bigweld. He invents things to make things better. The big thing that he makes is spare parts so people can fix themselves. So, for many years of his childhood, he works on an invention called wonderbot. It helps his father with the dishes because his father "has to take work home with him," because he didn't have any extra time. After college, he finishes his invention, but it gets nervous under pressure. So, wonderbot messes up with the dishes at father's job. So, Rodney wants to got to Robot City, where Mr. Bigweld lives and show wonderbot to him. He ends up going and gets into a little trouble at first. He finds out that Bigweld isn't there and this guy named Rachet, has taken over. Next what happens is that he meets new friends that are broke. Then, the whole group goes to find an extra part for his friend. They find out that he is outmoded. They are no longer making spare parts. They are making upgrades that are worth a lot of money. Mr. Bigweld was about saying, "You can make anything no matter what you are made of," but Rachet is all about making money. He finds out that Bigweld hasn't been there for 2 years and then he started to look for him. He ended up meeting a girl that works with Rachet named Cappy (Halle Barry). She never really liked Rachet and started to help Rodney. They found his place, and then they found out that Bigweld had just given up. They didn't know what to do afterwards. I will not give the ending.

This movie is an inspiration to all children and everyone will love this. Buy this please if you are looking for this movie.