I don't know if this script was written by a man or a gay man, but it's got to be one of the two for the script to be this disconnected from women and the original series.  I will try to not put any spoilers in my review.

First off I have to say that I loved the series and felt that the way it ended was superb.  I felt they ruined that superb ending with this movie.  The series is about 4 women who have been great friends for many years and support each other through the hard times and the good and share in each other's quest for love, security or pleasure (depending on the character).  In the movie this support for each other goes down the drain when one of the girls gets cheated on by her man.  She decides to separate from him... do the girls support her in her very sane decision to do this, like they would have in the series?  Nope.  They pretty much gang up on her for not allowing his "little mistake" and forgiving him.  And they do all act like it's a no big deal thing that should be swept under the rug and that she's being a drama queen for nothing.  From Samantha perhaps this would be acceptable because of her attitude towards monogamy, (though even she broke up with a man for cheating on her during the later seasons), but it is completely out of character for all the characters to do this to their "friend" not to mention completely unrealistic.  Especially since during the season something simular happened to the other characters and they were completely supported when THEY broke off their relationships do to this same reason.

Another thing that was bad was the fashion.  The director tried too hard to make these girls look "fabulous" to the point where they were dressed completely out of character at times.  Miranda during the series never wore ultra bright colors and unprofessional attire because she is a lawyer and this attire would not suit her.  In this movie it changes and suddenly she's walking down the street wearing colors that are too bright for her skin tone and going to work in attire that is not appropriate for the office.  Even the other girls are sometimes too done up.  During the season they had style and were fashion conscious, but it was natural looking rather than looking like they were TRYING.  It seems somebody put more attention on the fashion the girls were wearing than the actual script and movie.

There are other points I could mention specifically about the script that I felt was lacking, but to save this review from being too long I'll just conclude here and say that this movie was a disappointment and really brings down a rare series that had great writing and good performances.