I'll tell you why I like this movie...this is strictly fun popcorn fare and meant to evoke those late night Saturday sessions of failed seduction rolls and munching down cheesy puffs while alternately guffawing and sweating over the fate of an alter ego who exists only in the mind's eye and on a piece of paper much worn from erasing hit points and changing stats. 
D&D the movie is just for fun.  Anybody looking for any deep meaning should look elsewhere.  Yes, it does owe a lot to Raiders Of The Lost Ark and Star Wars.  The main character of Ridley has about two dozen Harrison Ford moments throughout the film.  No its not completely a full immersion in fantasy, but then again neither were most of the D&D campaigns I played in.  Think of all the moments somebody would crack a joke or toss in a geeky line from a movie while you were playing this game - the filmmaker didn't try to create a fantasy world, he tried to portray the game as it was...a fun night of bickering and mishaps with the occassional monster and bit of melodrama thrown in.  
There was no way this could please every fan, because each D&D fan had his own memories.  There were those who loved a lot of magic, and those who liked hack and slash, and those that were straight on roleplaying.  Maybe I only enjoyed this movie because the bumbling but ultimately heroic thief was always the kind of character I liked and played.  Anyways, don't try to see this as anything staggering or high-reaching as Excalibur or (sigh...) Lord Of The Rings, just enjoy it for what it is - there is a good deal to like...
The acting is way way over the top - but its fantastic in that regard.  The villains are of the mustache-twiddling egomaniacal comic book variety (particularly Jeremy Irons, who is so wild you can't even understand his evil wizard's ranting sometimes under the roaring of the dragons `Their blood will RAAAAIIINN from the SKIIIESSSS!' reminded me of  `We're gonna RAIIIN on you, Warriors!').  Demadar (sp?) speaks in an exaagerated cold rasp through the whole movie and goes around with a parasite in his head (and when Marlon Wayans mocks him late in the film its pretty funny)!  Marlon Wayans plays his typical scared brutha (a role he seems to have been born to play), and the guy who played Rosie The Eternal Flame in Freaked as the dwarf plays it to the hilt, gobbling turkey legs and in one hilarious scene (one of my favorites) stares at the camera and says `That's no way to do business. Mmmmm.'  And rolls his eyes.  Thora Birch is appealing as the mage if not particulalry memorable, and the elven chick is purdy, as she is meant to be.  These are archetypes from a game system, not really living characters with pasts of their own - they are the beautiful but aloof Elven Ranger, the crass and surly Dwarf Fighter, the likable but selfish Thief, etc...and no game of D&D is complete without them.
The production design ain't too bad - obviously it reflects the look of the new 3rd Edition rulebook, with elements that don't really belong in any time period.  But the golden coin-mail of the empress at the end makes her look stunning, and the other costumes (particularly in the Thieves' Guild scene) look cool as well.  Even the props are great - the Red Dragon Control Rod in particular, and did you notice that cool Michaelangelo-like mural of the mage using the Rod as he observes from a cloud?  I wonder where that painting is now...
The FX - not nearly as overblown as you might expect.  This director went to the Star Wars school sure, but it was the original trilogy, not the new garbage.  We don't linger or drool over CGI fluff for too long (like we do in some other recent fantasy movies I could mention).  We get nicely detailed establishing shots to give us a sense of place, and a big dragon battle at the end, which I think comes off rather well - the best since Dragonslayer - and not nearly as bad as Dragonheart.  Yeah, the Beholder is floating around in broad daylight - but so what?  Its a Beholder!  Highlights:  The Thieves' Guild Maze, The Dragon Fight at the end, Ridley and Snails breaking into the Mage Tower and getting caught.
The story - not nearly as terrible as some would have you believe.  Its linear, it makes sense most of the time, and its no frills. If there are flaws, they are the fault of market-minded producers who changed the director's original vision (as in most movies).  If you watch the extra material interview, you can tell his heart was in the right place when he did this.  As for the very ending, no it doesn't make a lot of sense - unless you consider this....D&D is a game.  This movie is based on a game.  Therefore it could be surmised that the characters are all people playing a game (that's why the three main characters are so young).  When the one character who died has his name disappear from his tombstone, and when we are told `Your friend waits for you' and they are all spirited away in a flutter of pixie dust, I like to think that its because the night is over.  The game is ended for now (its nearly dawn).  Yes, your friend is waiting for you.  He died early on in the night, so he made a food run and is now back with pizza and is waiting in the real world.  Thus `we'll stop here' and go eat and talk about the night's adventures and what's next, and probably a little of real life too.  If you look at it that way, this movie's not so bad.
My eleven year old son and I watch this movie and have a ball - even he knows when the actors are too much, and we laugh about it.  The dragon fight is awesome, the swordplay exciting, Marlon Wayans is funny, and the rest of the cast is passable and good looking.  A good family movie and a light bit of fun.