Tori's first ever full length concert DVD "Welcome To Sunny Florida" captures and examplifies the true nature and power of this musical siren better known as Tori Amos. Filmed on her final show of Scarlet's extended summer tour "Lottapiano's", Tori and the Boys (Matt Chamberlain- Drums, Jon Evans - Bass)mix up some of their favorite Live songs to 'Go out with a bang' in Sunny Florida.
Filmed in an almost Documentary fashion 'Sunny Florida'is a truly professional work directed by Loren Haynes. Packed with a few minor surprises, the interview's and look into the backstage life of the artist provides much excitement. Including the video debut of Tori's young child "Tash" (Who looks like a little spitting Image of her mother).
Welcome to Sunny Florida is a mix of 'secrets revealed' and stories re-told. As I watched, I felt the increadible sense of actually being at the show. The effect of the DVD comes as even greater if you listen to it on a good sound system.  As I watched my eyes could not leave the screen as Tori primaly dived into her music. The ONLY fallback is the cencorship issue in that Professional Widow's famous opening and end lines are cencored. Which baffles me because during Father Lucifer Tori's flip off to the audience was not cencored. But if you can get past that, then this show is truly immaculate.
The package also includes an audio disc called "Scarlets Hidden Treasures", a mini collection of Bee Sides from Tori's Epic records debut "Scarlets Walk". The 6 songs range from classic Tori sound as heard on "Apollo's Frock" to The classic rock influence'd "TomBigBee". But the stand out song in my opinion would have to be "Bug a martini". It has that late summer evening summer concert sound to it and it just makes you feel at home with life. A delight indeed.
In conclusion Tori's Debut into the DVD realm is fantastic and it will leave you wanting more (Which is also why they should have not cut out Wednesday and the others). If you want an uncencored show, then please do Call Epic and file a complaint. But otherwise I'd say give this DVD a watch and prepare to feel like you're right there in "Sunny Florida" With The other Toriphiles. This is a GREAT DVD for those who have not had the chance to see Amos live.