Oh, I absolutely love this anime more than I ever could love any other! ^_^  This series was on such a level of it's own that I was amazed.  There's a kind of Yaoi overhaze, but I'll get to that in a minute.
 It starts out with Tsuzuki, an employee of a company called the Ministry of Hades, that is supposed to go and solve mysteries that cannot be explained by the Chinese government.  Mysteries such as those concerning ghosts and vampires and such.  He is a really ditzy character that has a huge sweet tooth, and frequently turns into a dog (you know, how girls like turn into cats in animes with the ears and tail? Well, he does it with a golden retriever's ears and tail, and it's soooo cute!! ^_^)  Anyway, he is assigned a partner because all employees of the Ministry of Hades must work in pairs for protection.  His partner is Hisoka, a very serious blonde with a very difficult and shadowed past.  Hisoka is an empath, and he is sensitive to his surroundings, such as sensing your energy and being able to see where you are in his mind's eye.
 They are in charge of looking after Nagasaki, and at first, are not getting off to a good start because Hiskoa has a very hard time trusting Tsuzuki.  Then, we enter the villian; the insane Dr. Muraki.  He is a creepy guy who dresses in all white and has pale skin and platinum blonde hair.  And Hisoka hates him because besides the fact that he's a serial killer, he is the one who killed Hisoka under a mysterious circumstance (which is why he didn't cross over), but also, because he raped Hisoka before he killed him (which you see a breif scene of, but it's only a few seconds long, and there's nothing shown; you just get the idea of what's going on).  Muraki is obsessed with Tsuzki, because of some elements from his past, that I won't give away for you, because it would suck if I did.
 Anyway, they (Tsuzuki and Hisoka) become fast partners after Muraki kidnaps Hisoka and holds him somewhere, bound by twisted strands of women's hair (o.O I told you he was insane...) and Tsuzuki has to save him.  There are alot of implied MalexMale pairings, so it's not the anime for a homophobe, but if you're open minded, it's really cute I think.  Especially Hisoka and Tsuzuki... ^_~  Anyway, it's like I said, an amazing series that I actually bought completely on a whim, and I'm so glad I did.  There are alot of confusing and different parts until you get to the ending, where it all makes sense, so you might have to watch it twice to really grasp everything, but haey; I've owned it for a few weeks, and I've watched it over ten times (I kid you not... ^^;; ).  It's a very gothy anime, and some parts are very dark and confusing and creepy, but mixed with the light hearted humor, it is essentially one of the best shounen-ai animes out there! ^_^!! I highly recommend adding this to any devoted collector's set!! ^_^!!