This is my interpretation of the five Rocky movies including the stories, my opinion about the movie and box-office results.
ROCKY (1976) - 117,000,000$ domestically
This movie is the story about a small-time Philadelphia club fighter named Rocky Balboa, who doesn't seem to get any luck. Though he works as a collector for a second-rate loneshark, he fights in clubs for mainly nothing. He meets Adrian, the girl who works at a pet shop, for whom he falls in love. Adrian's brother, Paulie is always bothering Rocky to give him a job as a collector and Mickey, his trainer gets him out of the gym. So, everything seems to be going bad for Rocky, until the Heavyweight Champion Of The World, Apollo Creed picks Rocky to fight him since he can't get any good challenger for the fight. Rocky jumps at the chance to make something of himself and his whole life becomes a million-to-one shot.
This is the original movie that started it all. It won the 1976 Best Picture Oscar and picked up two more Oscars. Sylvester Stallone became a star around the world and was nominated as Best Actor at the Academy Awards. What is so good about this movie, is the script. Sylvester Stallone wrote it himself for 23,000$ and it was shot with a small budget of one million dollars. This movie is about courage, love and believing in yourself. It is the ultimate feel-good movie that has been copied so many times since it's release. If you haven't seen the original Rocky, you haven't seen anything.
ROCKY II (1979) - 71,000,000$ domestically
After going the distance with the Heavyweight Champion Of The World Apollo Creed and losing by unanimous decision, Rocky decides to retire. He gets married with the love of his life and with the money he made with the fight, he buys a house, a car, some new clothes and stuff for the house. He then learns that Adrian is pregnant. So, Rocky, having spend all of his money from the fight, has to make some new. He tries to make some commercials, but he can't read and blows the whole thing. He then learns to read and tries to find an office job, but his efforts come to nothing. Rocky finally gets a manual job at the Philadelphia meat house, but loses his job. Meanwhile, Apollo Creed wants to get a rematch with Rocky Balboa to prove that Rocky is just a lucky club fighter, but he knows that Rocky has retired, so he sets out to challenge Rocky on TV. Rocky sees Apollo's challenge and knows that he has to put his gloves back on and prepare for the fight of his life.
This movie was very hard to write, because Sylvester Stallone had to come up with a story as good as the first one. Though it doesn't have the charm of the first one, it's totally entertaining and is a very good follow-up to one of the most-acclaimed movies of all-time. Sylvester Stallone wrote, directed and stars in this powerful sequel that was shot with a budget of 8 million$. If you loved the original, you gotta see this one.
ROCKY III (1982) - 125,000,000$ domestically
This movie takes place three years after Rocky won against Apollo Creed and became the Heavyweight Champion Of The World. Rocky, then, scored ten consecutive wins, earned millions of dollars and became famous around the world. Then, Rocky meets the ferocious #1 Challenger, Clubber Lang and learns that all of his fights since his win from Apollo Creed are set-ups for him to win. Rocky decides to fight Clubber Lang, but he loses the fight by K.O. in Round 2 and loses the title. It is clear that Rocky has lost his edge, but when former Heaweight Champion Apollo Creed offers to train him, Rocky must accept and go back to his roots and prepare for a rematch with Clubber Lang for the Heavyweight Championship Of The World.
This movie is probably the most entertaining of the series. It has lots of action and it's really a good movie to watch if you have to regain trust in yourself. The movie is at the same time, exciting, sad and funny. Sylvester Stallone did a good job at writing, directing and acting in the movie. Mr.T is perfect as a Mike Tyson type-fighter. Rocky III is truly a great movie.
ROCKY IV (1985) - 127,000,000$ domestically
After regaining the heavyweight title from Clubber Lang, Rocky is proudly the champion for a second-time. Then, Soviet fighter Ivan Drago comes to Philadelphia in hope to fight Rocky Balboa, but it's Apollo Creed who wants to make a comeback and fight Ivan Drago. After the tragic lost by Apollo Creed, Rocky accepts to battle the 261-pound fighter and sets out to Russia to train for what is gonna be the most-challenging fight of his life. 
This movie is again very good. It has lots of action, some good 80's rock music and the final fight is truly the best of all the Rocky movies. Sylvester Stallone wrote, directed, and stared in the fourth chapter of the Rocky saga.
ROCKY V (1990) - 40,000,000$ domestically
After wining against Ivan Drago in Russia, Rocky returns to Philadelphia as the champion, but things are about to get ugly when Rocky finds out he lost all of his money. To make matters worst, the injuries that Rocky substained from the fight forces him to retire. So, Rocky, Adrian and his son Rocky Jr. move back to the old South Philadelphia neighborhood. There, Rocky meets Tommy Gunn, a young fighter who wants to be trained by Rocky. Tommy Gunn rises to national prominance and betrays Rocky by going with promoter George Washington Duke. After Tommy becomes the Heavyweight Champion Of The World, he challenges Rocky to a fight. That's when Rocky knows he has to fight once again.
The problem with this movie is that it doesn't have the same big fights as in the other ones. Rocky fights in the street at the end of the movie for nothing and loses all of his money. Though the movie failed at the box-office, it remains a great tale of life after the crowd stops cheering and the glamour goes away.