If you are a fan of the British comedies "Mr. Bean" (played by Rowan Atkinson) and "Keeping Up Appearances" (with Patricia Routledge at the helm), you will probably enjoy this movie, as it is clear that the creators of those comedies were influenced by Tati.  There's even a scene that resembles one from John Cleese's "Fawlty Towers" (as the party guests are leaving the party, which has just ended disastrously, each guest is nursing an injury received at the party, or with soiled clothing--just like ending of the "Fawlty Towers" episode entitled "The Anniversary"--even down to the last guest handing the host an empty glass).

The movie is a visual and aural delight--I love the sound of the coins that the boys toss on to the rock when they are taking bets on the bluff overlooking the street light.  The scenes involving the modern house and business office contain no background noise--very eerily silent and lifeless (like they're in a vacuum), and certainly contrast with the old world scenes, where the village denizens are lively and loquacious.

Tati further exploits sound in this picture.  Even the woman at the party with the obnoxious laugh (very funny!) is "shushed" by Mrs. Arpel, as that laugh is clearly out of place at her backyard party.  The old world music that annoyingly comes over the office phone, totally unwanted and out-of-place, followed by an abrupt cut to a shot of another phone hanging off the hook in a phone booth in Hulot's neighboorhood sums up the whole point of the movie in one sequence.

The first time you see Hulot enter his apartment complex you know that you will see him or part of him through each of those windows as he meanders his way up to his flat.  Very clever.  The one brick that Hulot picks up and puts back on the wall, which is crumbling--as if that is going to help the situation, again rather summarizing the point of the movie.  The scene at the party where Mr. Arpel is sitting, rocking in that ridiculous, exaggerated rocking chair squawking to his business associate, while Hulot and the boy are off on the left of the screen trying to trim the branches on the foliage next to the garage--hilarious--Mr. Bean, where are you?

When the silly fish fountain malfunctions and sprays water all over, the party guests have to pick up the patio furniture, dishes, food, etc. and follow Mrs. Arpel around the backyard to a "new" spot to have their picnic.  Anybody remember the "Keeping Up Appearances" episode where Hyacinth is in search of the perfect spot for the "waterside picnic and riparian entertainments" and has her whole entourage laborously carrying backyard furniture, picnic baskets, etc. all over the place?

There's hope for the young boy's father, though, because at the end of the movie, his whistling catches someone off guard, who runs into the statue, reminiscent of the earlier scene with the young boys.  Maybe Mr. Arpel IS catching on to why his son would rather spend his time with his uncle.........

This movie is not the "bust a gut laughing" kind of movie--rather it is contemplative and views like a rather large comic strip.  Great fun!