Gregory Walcott (Jeff Trent), Mona McKinnon(Paula Trent),Duke Moore (Lt. John Harper),Tor Johnson (Dan Clay), Vampira (Vampire Girl), Bela Lugosi (Ghoul Man), and Criswell playing himself star in Edward. D Wood Jnr's masterpiece "Plan 9 from outer Space."

This classic creation from the brilliant mind of Ed Wood is about as good as it gets. A masterpiece in every sense of the word, Plan 9 from outer space is a piece of art.

A terrifying threat from outer space comes with the power to make the dead come alive. One by one, the undead are being brought back to terrorise the living. The police are sent to investigate the strange happenings in the cemetary. Will they be able to stop the body snatchers from outer space!!

Tor Johnson gives the performance of his lifetime as the inspector Dan Clay, he's totally believable and mind numbingly horrific as he is brought back from the dead. Vampira also shines in her role as - vampire girl! You may have nightmares and not be able to shake off the memories of her terrifying visage as she walks and stalks her prey.

This is also the last chance to view the mighty Bela Lugosi as he gives his final performance here. It's only a brief part as he is seen grieving his dead wife at the beginning, as he sadly died before filming finished his part was then played by a chiropractor friend of a friend of Ed Wood. Look out also for a powerful cameo by the director playing the guy holding a newspaper.

Be warned, this film is not for the faint of heart, horror fans only please for this lesson in terror is almost too much to bear!!

Ok, seriously folks, this is the best of the best of "B" grade sclock that has been produced. There are more laughs to be had here than the average Hollywood "comedy" and it's a true joy to behold the master in his top form here. Witness night turn to day then back to night in the graveyard. Marvel at Tor Johnson's mumbling as "Lobo" gets to finally speak. Watch as cardboard gravestones are knocked over by the bumbling cast. Hear the hysterics of the alien leader and above all be entertained by this wonderful movie by the king of the B grades himself - Edward D. Wood Jnr.

Enjoy and thanks for reading.