How quickly the cultural phenomena of one generation is forgotten by the next. From the years 1960-64 "Route 66" was one of the most popular and critically acclaimed TV shows on the air. But it has been little remembered throughout the years, and somehow the status of a television classic to rank with the likes of TV's greatest has inexplicably eluded it.
Ostensibly an adventure show chronicling the ultimate American road trip, Route 66 originally had three main regular stars: (1) Martin Milner as clean-cut, Yale-educated, introspective Tod Stiles, (2) George Maharis as his close friend the street-wise, hep-talking and opccasionally short-tempered Buz Murdock and (3) the Corvette the two of them drove around the U.S.A. in search of romance and adventure.
"Route 66" had all the qualities that the greatest of television series possess: Fully developed lead characters who attain depth and complexity and become as familiar to viewers as their own friends and family, superlative top-notch writing including classic lines of dialog, unforgettable individual episodes and scenes, quality musical scores tailored for individual episodes and used to great effect, and even a two-part series finale which brought closure to the saga (almost unknown in television at the time, today it is de reguir).
The series achieved a quality of literary and dramatic excellence seldom seen on the small screen, and did it consistently throughout its four-year run. The brilliant scripts of chief writer Stirling Silliphant and his award-winning stable of writers took Tod and Buz through a series of psychological character-based stories in their trek throughout America unparallelled in the medium. In contrast to the pat happy endings and clean resolutions which prevail in episodic TV drama even to this day, the individual stories of "Route 66" often turned out to be tragedies with no real winners, no clear answers. As the series progressed and the stories began to attain more complexity, some of them quite flatly appeared to be nearly incomprehensible on a first viewing, only to take on new levels and layers of meaning each time they were viewed again. Yet the series showed it's diversity by offering up the occasionally delightful whimsical comic episode as well. "Route 66" probably couldn't be done today.
But perhaps the most unique aspect of the series - and its most historically significant one - was the fact that it actually was filmed on location all throughout the U.S. And not only were the adventures of Tod and Buz played out against the background of familiar metroplolises such as Chicago, L.A. and Boston, but in America's small off the beaten path communities as well. Towns like Grant's Pass, Oregon; Butte, Montana; Carlisle, Pennsylvania; Apache Junction, Arizona; Poland Springs, Maine and many others had episodes filmed in them, and those shows remain as important time capsules for those communities of how they looked in the early 60's.
There's so much more to say about this marvelous show, but that will have to wait till the release of volume 2. Yes, the only shortcoming of this set is that only the first 15 of the 116 episodes are availible. And, also true, that while this undenaibly constitutes fifteen great hours of entertainment for the truly discerning, the show is still finding its legs, and these early offerings really only begin to hint at the level of excellence that "Route 66" was about to achieve. In fact, the benchmark for me when the show really began to take off, was right immediately after episode fifteen.
Well, all the more reason for us to buy this set, then, so that the makers will put out the rest of these 116 true screen gems. Then finally all of us devotees who have held on all these years to our old VHS tapes garnered from mid-eighties Nick at Nite reruns, made nearly unwatchable from the wear of having our most beloved epsiodes played again and again and again, will finally be able to retire them.

ADDENDUM: This initial review was written just prior to the release of this set. At the time, neither I nor the other fans of the show who were eagerly awaiting this official release could have anticipated the dreadful overall quality of the set, probably the worst of any official TV series DVD offering I've ever seen. While everything I stated above about the quality and importance of the review still holds true, I would be remiss if I did not add my voice to the other reviewers warning about the poor quality of these episode transfers which in most cases are no better than bootleg quality. One episode, "The Fury Slinging Flame", is actually an edited-for-syndication version with four and a half minutes trimmed from the original! This is unacceptable for a professional release and I cannot believe that better quality sources were not availible for this important release which has been so badly done. If this is the only way you can get epsiodes of Route 66, then by all means by the set, as the series is of such an outstanding quality that it must be seen in whatever watchable form one can get it. But take heed of the warnings of the quality I and others have posted. The five stars for the series itself I gave earlier still holds, but I have to temper that earlier enthusiasm by giving two stars to the quality of the product.