Those reviewers who thought this was a great film, have a Medical Marijuana Card, or are from Texas and voted for both Bushes.

On every level, this film is a disaster -- acting, directing, story, cinematography.  But you must see it just to appreciate how bad it is.

First:  Elizabeth Taylor can recite dialog with the best of them.  But . . . OMG, who thought super short Elizabeth Taylor would look good next to super tall Rock Hudson? (Next to Alan Ladd, yes.)  And the director shoots their scenes full body so you dramatically see that she is about 5'2" and Hudson is 6'4".  She even wears 3" or 4" heels and it doesn't help.  The only time he holds her is during close-ups -- she is standing on a box so her head hits his chest.  In reality, her head would be just a little higher than his belt buckle.  Also, Taylor just had a baby in real life, and was chubby through this film.  The director could have shot her at angles to make her look thinner, but all the shots of her accentuate her weight.  (Skinny Audrey Hepburn was originally considered for the role, but she turned it down.  Maybe the director didn't get the memo and used the original camera angles for a skinny actress.)  Yeah, this DVD is worth the price just to see how Elisabeth Taylor looked in real life.  (Richard Burton once described her as a short, fat bitch, with big tits.  Then he married her.)

By far one of the worst scenes in the film is when Taylor and Hudson are standing at a window with their backs to us.  He has his arm around her.  His sister has died because Elizabeth's horse threw her.  The horse was Elizabeth's favorite, which Rock bought from her family for breeding.  She loves that horse -- only she can ride it.  Elizabeth, with Rock's arm around her, asks him about her horse.  Without pause or sympathy, Rock replies "I shot him."  Elizabeth does not flinch.  Then Rock says that he had to put the horse down because he had a broken leg.  George Stevens should have had Elizabeth immediately push Rock away and say "You did what?!"  He can then hug her and tell her the horse was in pain, and it was he humane thing to do.  As the scene stands, her non-reaction is entirely inappropriate.

Second: Rock Hudson cannot recite dialog with the best of them.  Often, his face does not match the words he is speaking.  Even when he is silent and tries to "emote", his face loses the scene (e.g. the opening dinner table scene at Elizabeth's house.  He looks goofy.)  Hudson is best in a farce like "Pillow Talk", and not a drama.  He was truly miscast in this film.

Third: Poor James Dean.  His last movie and it had to be a real stinker.  His problem was that he trusted the director George Stevens.  "Keep your hat down over your eyes, and stand in the dark shadows Jimmy, no one wants to see your face, or what you're thinking" his director probably told him.  "We only want the audience to see your face on rare occasions."  And he has Dean go from under-acting a scene, to over-acting a scene (e.g. when he tells Rock he hit oil -- he's way over the edge).  Dean should have followed Marilyn Monroe's advice and refused to come out of his trailer until he was allowed to follow his own instincts and direct himself.

Fourth: As part of the plot, all three leads are racists (e.g. Elizabeth Taylor's father has black servants that are treated kindly, but they are servants and know their place, and Rock Hudson treats the Mexicans like his cattle. And James Dean -- although poor -- distances himself from "those wet backs".  For the benefit of his fans and prosperity, Dean should have demanded that his character be sympathetic to the plight of the poor Mexicans.  It would have made a better story.  Especially when he strikes it rich -- he could have helped the Mexicans.  There was much of this 201 minute film that was unnecessary and could have been reduced to 100 minutes at the most, and still carried the major plot.

George Stevens was the director and had absolute control of all aspects of this film.  He cast the wrong actors. Rock Hudson does not walk or talk like he owns the second largest cattle ranch in Texas -- he simply talks loud to express authority, nor is he convincing in his love for Taylor.  Taylor looks short and fat and out of place in all of her scenes.  James Dean is either manic or mumbles his way through his scenes.  Different actors were definitely needed.  (Think of Clark Gable, Ava Gardner, and Paul Newman.)  And Stevens should have had the balls to tear several pages out of the script.  Hell, Gone With The Wind (a truly great film) did not try to film every page of the book.

Stevens also supervised the photography.  With the exception of one shot -- James Dean in the expensive car with his feet up, which has become iconic -- there is not one scene in the entire 1956 film that ranks with Alan Ladd looking at Jack Palance (immediately before the shoot-out) in Steven's 1953 film, Shane.

And all of the shots of Taylor should have been from the waist up, and every scene with Hudson should have been behind a table, fence, divan, etc. so she could stand on a box.  She does, in some scenes, wear a bullet bra to make her chest look bigger and her waist smaller, but then photographing her bare arms only served to emphasize her chubbiness.

Also, in the death scene of the gay incestuous sister, note how James Dean walks into the parlor.  He does a super exaggerated John Wayne, bow legged stride.  It's like he's on a boat with his shoulders tipping way to the right, then way to the left.  It's comical in a non-funny way.  And with his hat covering his face he steps into the shadows of the hall way, tilts his head, and only one eye can be seen -- like something out of a horror movie. Good grief!  Stevens knows better.  And Dean knows better.  Dean should have said "George, WTF!  You want me to walk stupid like that -- which I don't do in any other scene of the movie -- and you are not even going to light me?"  That walk is not part of Dean's character in the film -- why do it in this scene?

And obviously, neither Taylor or Hudson watched the dailies of this film -- or they would not have come out of their trailers either.

No, this is not a great film.  It is not even a mediocre film.  It is a terrible film.  Enjoy the disaster.

For you Texans: Okay, the broad open expanses of dry dusty Texas with the tumble weeds and illegals are photographed well.  George did that right.