I've read the other reviews of this film, and while I generally think Norwegian films are less than see-worthy, this one is hopefully the start of a new era in Norwegian film.

The backdrop is drawn heavily from Asbjørnsen and Moe's Collected Norwegian Fairytales, albeit in a very modern world setting. I've heard people complain about "it's so unrealistic and it's trampling on christian faith, smelling christian blood is SO unrealistic" Well. To all of those who think that's a very free interpretation of the lore, you should seriously try to read some of the aforementioned fairytales. Trolls CAN smell christian mans' blood. And it DO drive them even crazier than normal.

The fairytales comes from an era in Norwegian history aftrer the Viking era, and thus "we" were "christianised" for lack of a better word. And as all bad creatures (like vampires, werewolves, etc) hate and distrust symbols and people of the Christian faith, so do trolls. Although, the trolls take it a step fursther with their heightened sense of smell, which allows them to actually smell "christian mans' blood."

Now that THAT is explained and now makes sense, the film is very true to the Norwegian Folklore, Otto Jespersen (playing Hans) describes the different kinds of trolls and their habits, their habitats and societies and all such in a quick and easy way to understand. He's actually a comedian in Norway, as well as at least 3 or 4 others of the (minor) cast, but does a very good job in this film.

All in all... when me mrs. said she wanted to see a Norwgian film, I seriosuly didn't expect much. I expected quite a bit of dodgy (at best) dialogue, slightly unfocused cameras, thin storyline with even less plot, and music originating from Norway Worst EuroVision SongContest.

What I got was good dialogue, sharp camera focus (bearing in mind it's supposed to be amateurs handling the camera at all time) good storyline (which every Norwegian knows the background of by heart) with a fair plot, and music that actually fits the film.

I'll give it 4 out of 5 stars, as I think they could've done a slightly better job in fleshing out the different troll tribes and why the government tries so hard to keep the trolls a secret. Also, in quite typical Norwegian film-manner, it lacks a little bit of "polish," norwegian film always look very amateur-ish, and this was no exception to that rule. I think Norwegian filmmakers and script writers scould learn a little from BBC and also Hollywood when it comes to the "polish" of the films, although that's just a very minor point, but as I'm now used to BBC productions of Torchwood, Being Human, Dr. Who, and others, it's very easy to notice. Even though the film is supposed to be made (mostly) by amateur college students, the lack of this "polish" DO drag the whole experience down. Then again, it might just be because I'm so used to Norwegian film that I cringe every time I hear about one :lol