To be perfectly clear, even though I'm a Monty Python fan with all of the original episodes/movies and much of 3 decades' worth of solo projects (including, of course, the first Rutles TV movie), I only bought this because I'm ultimately a bigger David Bowie fan and just had to see his cameo.  Ultimately, this "sequel" didn't even meet my low expectations for a long-shelved and direct-to-video sequel, and Bowie and Billy Connolly are pretty much the only funny people in the movie.

First of all, it's very obvious that this was shot on no budget.  It doesn't look low budget in that endearing Monty Python/Doctor Who/etc. BBC way, but just flat-out cheap.  Instead of film, everything that isn't left over from the first Rutles movie looks like it was shot on a regular video camcorder, and he even uses his own backyard/house for the opening and several other scenes, which is obvious if you've seen his interview pieces in the Life of Python set recently.  Unused footage from the first film is poorly-integrated with the new footage and very obvious (again, because of the lousy production values of the new stuff).  In particular, several newer Rutles songs from the (Idle-less) Rutles Archaeology album are very obviously dubbed over left-over performance footage.

Next, and most importantly, it is a pointless rehash of the first movie, with plenty of inconsistencies.  I'm not as avid a fan of the Rutles as I am of Python and hadn't seen the original in several years, but even I could tell right off the bat that there were lots of lazy little oversights like the Rutles being turned on to "curry" instead of "tea".  As only Idle is involved in this film, you don't even get to see the other Rutles.  Instead, he recycles old jokes like the tight trousers bit and beats them into the ground, and there are plenty of cloying talking heads praising the Rutles.  If you couldn't stomach the Beatles Revolution special that ABC aired around John Lennon's 60th birthday, you will HATE watching this.  While Idle has said in interviews that Can't Buy Me Lunch is supposed to be a spoof of that special, it is more straight-up emulation.  Pretty much the only people who don't slather praise on the Rutles are David Bowie and Billy Connolly, which is one of the reasons they are funny here in their brief appearances.  In particular, Bowie sends up his pretentious artiste public reputation pretty well in his dissing of the "Rutles 1" compilation, to the point that if you didn't know he was fully in on the joke it might come across as a candid camera moment (he's a long-time Rutles fan and also wrote about this cameo on his website).

The guest cameos are the other major problem with this video.  Instead of fresh interviews with celebrities like Mick Jagger who would have been contemporaries to the Rutles (he is seen in recycled footage), Idle mostly interviews people who have nothing to do with the Rutles, ranging from Jewel and J-Lo to his comedian buddies from LA like Steve Martin and Gary Shandling.  Even his daughter shows up, in a scene that only exists as an excuse to let her have a few seconds on video. Bonnie Raitt is particularly embarrassing and keeps going on about the Rutles' trousers and, as expected, Jimmy Fallon is dire as a competing documentor.  The worst offender here, however, is Eric Idle himself.  His attempts to emulate his performance as the narrator/documentor from the first film are forced and more embarrassing than funny.

Finally, as mentioned by another reviewer, there's the long-going spat between Eric Idle and Neil Innes that ultimately gives this video a bad taint.  If you are skeptical of this as I was, look up his interview with IGN Movies over Spamalot and a Chicago Tribune article called "Art Imitates Strife: Rutles Launch Feud" and find out about the bile and hypocrisy involved in the making of this film, plus the reactions of the other Rutles to this sequel.

All in all, Rutles 2: Can't Buy Me Lunch just as inept and embarrassing as Burn, Hollywood, Burn, a 1997 "comedy" about Hollywood that Eric Idle starred in, but in this case he is entirely to blame for it.  If you really still feel you want to see Can't Buy Me Lunch, I wouldn't recommend paying more than $5 for a used copy, including S&H.