There is a certain beauty contained within this film that makes it beyond a film about infidelity and its consequences.  Diane Lane didn't get my attention until the recent "The Glass House."  As a new fan, I had to see 'Unfaithful'...her performance is nothing short of remarkable.
The story revolves around a 'happily married', middle-aged couple living in the suburbs of NY with one small son.  Their life is the picture of the 'American dream', until one day, Mrs. Sumner (Diane Lane) goes into the city on business and cosmically collides with the much younger Paul Martel (Martinez).  When he invites her in to clean up her skinned knee a most deadly affair begins.
What makes this movie different from all the other films with themes such as betrayal, etc, is that we see the struggle and transformation Diane's character makes.  Several times we see Diane reflect on her various 'visits' to Martinez and all at once her face displays pleasure, pain, and paranoia.  She brings likability to a character we should hate.  Richard Gere is one of my favorite actors and I deeply respect him for taking a 'backseat' role in this film.  His character torments himself wondering why his wife would possibly want to cheat on him, as he thought he was providing a perfect life.
Added suspense and thrills come about when Gere starts to suspect and eventually finds out about the affair.  We then see the direct effect affairs have on families.  The murder mystery was thrown in more for entertainment value but the true artistic aspect remains in the adultress' mind.
We've seen affairs start from heartbreak, drunkeness, seduction...any reason other than this film's...boredom.  From boredom and seduction we get obsession, we see Diane become addicted to her breakaway from daily life.  For those of you who love Richard Gere as much as I do, you really have to bite your lip watching him getting cheated on!  However, there is great remorse as Connie (Diane) really does love her husband, but someone dies before the affair is ended.  This movie truly remains with its viewers.  I recommend picking up the haunting tracks 'Moby - Rushing' and 'E.S. Posthumus - Nara' to reexperience the emotions captured through watching 'Unfathful.'  This is a definete must see!