First and foremost, I want to state that Hugh Grant, as an actor and screen presence, deserves to be respected more. The abuse this guy has endured, at the hands of the media and general public has been unwarranted and cumulative to the point where one of this generations most under-appreciated talents is considering an early retirement at age 43.

The root of Grant's success and criticism is his championing of the romantic comedy. Once a well respected genre (think It Happened One Night - which swept all major Oscar awards in 1934, or The Philadelphia Story) the "romcom" is only now re-emerging as a force to be reckoned with. This is in part due to the success of a few classics such as When Harry Met Sally('84), Pretty Woman('90), Sleepless in Seattle('93), Groundhog Day('93), but more in part to the work of Hugh Grant.

The man has almost single-handedly restored the genre to its rightful place as audiences are beginning to appreciate the depth, quality and cathartic power that movies like About a Boy are achieving. But his success has come at a price. Grant is in a unique predicament (not unlike most pop star idols) of being lionized by romcom audiences(mostly female) and lambasted by the media and the average Joe six-pack for being too soft, feminine, foppish, (pick your own).

This is the reason he is deliberately seeking out roles with more weight and "steel". Not only is this a step in the right direction for the continued health and success of Grant, but also the logical evolution of the romantic comedy with the drama. Grant's character in About, who is a flawed and 3-dimensional with the pain, wounds and vulnerability that humans possess, represents this shift. We watch as he must break his cocoon of complacency or break down and die under its weight. The risks are really quite high; a life is at stake. And we watch this man break his shackles and gain a life of happiness, social connection and ultimately, love.

The story is timeless one of personal transformation and freedom from mental barriers that we as vulnerable creatures erect to cope with the pressures and anxieties of modern living. About a Boy remembers that at the heart of every good story is a character flawed in some capacity that must engage in battle with his own personal demons before balance and harmony are attained. Through Grant's (character) transformation, we as witnesses to his story, must embrace his struggle as our own - this is the power of movies - thereby challenging ourselves to grow and improve.