First of all, let me state that this review is not about the movie, but about the special features included in the dvd.  As far as the film itself goes, I find myself somewhat in agreement with the above December 27 review by B. Marold, although I probably like this odd, disjointed film better than the above reviewer.  This film is definately worth a watch for curiosity, though it is far from perfect.

However, if you decide you like the film enough to give the DVD a try, I would definately recommend you take a look through the deleted scenes.  90% of them are absolute gems, and you can decide for yourself whether they deserved to be cut purely to speed up the pacing of the story.  Important: You should watch them first all the way through (Play all) without the director's commentary, and then again with the commentary on for Director Terry Gilliam's take on each scene (the commentary track washes out most of the audio from each scene, so you won't really get the scene without watching it first without the commentary track).

Sadly, the deleted scenes contain some of the best jokes and gags in the entire movie, as well as a somewhat spectacular unfinished battle scene with a living tree.  There is one scene in particular in which a rereading of the tale Cinderella is given a comically spooky twist with some creative saw-playing, and which ends with a great riff on necrophelia.  The deleted scenes also explain a lot of the plot discontinuities that one feels on watching the final - edited - version of the film.  These plot jumps include the strange bit with the snails at the beginning, how Angelika (Lena Headley) escapes from her French captors near the end, and numerous other comments and references that seem out of place throughout the film and are better explained upon viewing the deleted scenes.  Another great moment between Cavali (Peter Stormare) and Delatombe (Jonathan Pryce) provides a hillarious cap to the ending of the dinner scene in the castle.

The commentary is also quite enlightening, as Terry Gilliam explains why these jewels of scenes were cut from the final movie.  He laments that each scene had to be cut because of the pacing of the film - a fault of the writing rather than the direction - and pokes fun at the digital DVD medium, challenging fans to recut the film with the deleted scenes.