I was just reading a few reviews of this movie.  I'm very tired - jetlagged - and this opinion I'm expressing here is "off the top of my head" so please excuse the odd "error" or "inconsistancy".

I read in one review "mentally handicapped" and "retarded" - which just shows how poorly some people understand autism (I have Asperger's Syndrome).

Socially of course - that might be the case.  Then again - we live in a world of war and terror, of bullying and slavery ... and if one gets rid of the "mentally handicapped" autistic people - those things won't go away.  Everybody has a part to play in these things.  I'd suggest we're all "mentally handicapped" to allow such things to happen (gladly as we do as we all partake in the scavenged rewards) - or really such things are acceptable to us as part of our normal-functioning and we just like to pretend they're bad, for appearances and our perceived social status - the most important thing to most of us.

This movie is claimed by some to oversimplify things - e.g. regarding political posturing and the like.

They're right of course.

My point of view however is of a benign Aspie (person with Asperger's Syndrome).  I like people.  I do tend to see things in "black and white".  All people are imperfect.  We are all grey.  I think I'm safe in stating that.  There is conflict between my instinctive view of people, and my intellectual understanding of them.

I like this film because it chimes with my instinctive view and also addresses "justice" - often an important concept to Aspie's.

Let's face it - if people are not fundumentally altered with gene therapy, and are allowed freedoms, then we are always going to have conflict, prejudice, hypocrasy, tragedy, expoitation ... we are all part of the problemS in some form or other.  No amount of education is going to fundumentally change our humanity in a long-term persistent manner that's logically consistent accross differing contexts. We live in a social hierarchy based on power structure.  Some societies are perhaps more morale and successful in "fair structure" over-all than others.  I could go into the philosophy of morality or the meaning of logic or the validity of mathematical axioms - but this isn't really the place to do so.

This film does require a suspension of disbelief.  It does look at things rather simply - as someone with Asperger's might prefer to - or at least I would prefer to do so as a key thing about Autism is that every person with autism is very individual and more resistent to societal meme's.  Some things in life - some actions and stances by people or people(s) are particularly bad.  Some are particularly good.  It's comforting when there is clarity.  This film is over-simplified fiction - and I think quite wonderful.  Perhaps a particular mindset is required to properly appreciate its position - concepts possibly alien and incomprehensible to many.

I like it.  It made me cry.

Nb - I came accross these reviews as part of a partially related search - I haven't seen the blu-ray movie - only the cinematic presentation several months ago.  Also, if I recall, this film sits in a series of films intended to educate about various [and often poorly understood] "disabilities".  Autism is extremely complex and difficult to understand - I've spent the last two years trying to understand it and despite my intelligence, intellectual insights / academic training and ability, and experience of having Asperger's Syndrome and meeting many others with the condition, I still only vaguely understand it at best. There's a saying regarding Autism: approx. "After you've met one person with Autism, you've met one person with Autism".  It's not safe to (unscientifically / non-rigorously) interpolate.