The documentary was done well, as it pretty much told the Flaming Lips story and gave the viewer plenty of insight into the bands personality and dynamics. What was lacking was good live music in the documentary. I'm comparing this to the Pavement  Slow Century dvd where they'd pull away and show some awesome clips of the band playing live, and let the song play through. On disc two you do get a small section to chose some live songs from. Also, there were no music videos on this documentary which was also kind of dissapointing. It would have been nice to watch those, especially since part of the emphasis of the documentary is how Wayne and his friends enjoy making film. So I found it weird that the only example of this work was just the documentary itself. My favorite part of the documentary was the parts that covered the earlier parts of the bands career. There are definitely two types of fans that like early Lips music, and the later studio sythesized stuff. Being a noise freak, I like the old stuff better. There was some good footage of the band playing on stage with fire on a cymbal which looked completely bizarre and looked incredibley dangerous. While watching I couldn't help thinking about the Great White concert in Rhode Island. There was also a weird part about the Fearless Freaks, which was a weird mixture of drugs, sports, and violence. You also get a bit where Wayne talks about his old job working at Long John Silvers. This was the type of bizarre insight and footage I expected from this film.

I will add this as well, there is an entire cult of Wayne out there that really enjoys his candor and sort of droll sense of humor. This film delves into that towards the end. You witness his feelings on life, death, and his appreciation of fake blood. He after all is often described as being an overgrown child. You also get isnight into his love of making film with his lifelong friend and neighbor from Oklahoma. The parts about the martian movie made me scratch my head. From a documentary view point it was good insight into a strange project, but the premise itself just seemed super hoaky. It honestly looks like one of the most ridiculous films ideas I've ever seen. I like the guy though, and I hope he is able to pull it off.

All in all not a bad thing for Lips fans. When compared to other great music documentaries like the Wilco film or the Pavement dvd this one fails in terms of actually representing the bands music. The music is brief, and is talked over. This is a shame because the Lips built their legend on their incredible live shows, and in particular their performances in records stores shortly before Ronald left the band and with their performances on the 2nd stage of Lollapalooza. Surely there must be some footage of this stuff out there, and it amazes me that it wasn't utilized in this film. The other thing that blew my mind was that this documentary just glosses over the Soft Bulletin which is a symphonic masterpiece. What you get instead is a bunch of their personality which after a while gets a little too self indulgent. It gets to the point where they have to show Steven Drozd shooting up, which in my opinion was carried way too far, but also let you know that the documentarian had pretty much full access to film the band. In this Film you get to see disturbed family members, the messed up neighborhoods they live, the impoverished life style the band had to endure to make it, the bands wives, their parents, and pretty much Wayne's happy level of acceptance of everything that is. That pretty much is the crux of the film.