As a huge fan of cats before the video release, I was a little hesitant...and even more so when I only saw a clip of the video...but I found I was pleasantly surprised.  While not perfect, the video is enough  to satiate my desire to see it..especially when I am several hours from  Broadway and can't afford to go see it every day! 
While the editing is,  at times, poor and choppy, you can still enjoy the dances and see the  expressions on the actors faces much better.  Who would have thought humans  could act so much like cats!  It was a disappointment to see Growltigers'  Last Stand not in there...I would have thoroughly enjoyed seeing this  "memory" of Gus's played out with a younger actor...but even  without it the production is full.
John Partridge as Tugger...well,  enough said.  He steals the show everytime he's onstage!  He keeps me  rolling on the floor with his sometimes over the top performance, making  Tugger lovable, despite his curious ways.  Jacob Brent as  Mistoffelees...another actor who's performance is a showstopper.  I do wish  they had not cut out the dance scene and made him "disappear"  like they did...for the amazing dance routine is half of what makes Misto  so magical!  His endearing portrayal shows you with every moment how  lovable, kind, and playful Misto can be.  
To keep it short the only  other actor I will comment on is Rebecca Parker as Cassandra.  Her subtle  way of drawing her attention to this cat keeps me transfixed..I sometimes  forget to watch the other cats!  She is a fine dancer who takes part in  all the dances, and with gusto!  And has anyone but me noticed that Tugger  always escorts her down off her perch (Skimbleshanks and Journey to the  Heaviside Layer)! 
All in all, the video is something that I enjoy  watching...and it tides me over between live shows.  If you are able to  overlook bad editing..get it.  You will enjoy it! and if you've never seen  it before...it will draw you into the world of cats..and you will never  want to return!