Wow i never thought that i would be saying this as an avid Bond fan but this movie is horrid. While none of the official 007 films were truly terrible. A couple of Roger Moore efforts less than spectacular. If i compare this to A view to a kill NSNA makes the latter seem like a great film. Here is what is wrong with the movie.
The Plot- There is no plot it is just a remake of Thunderball. Something invloving a couple of nukes. They should have come up with a completely different plot line for this film.
The Action-Man was this slow paced i am sorry they talk to much and for what little action there is it is not very exciting at all.
The Performances-Sean Connery dusted off his tux for one last time and should have never done so. He is to old and is a little thicker around the waste. Hard to imagine love at first sight. Edward Fox as M, Compared to the Fatherly Bernard Lee, Edward Fox's interpretation is shrill and very irritating. Kim Basinger is stiff and not very alluring looks like she is crying all throughout the movie. probably because she found out that this was not an official bond film. Pamela Salem portrayed Miss Moneypenny, i can't pin point it but there something that i just do not like about this person. Lois Maxwell will always be the only Moneypenny. Kalus Maria Brandaur makes for a very uninteresting Largo. Barbra Carrera as Fatima Blush sutibly attractive but kind of over the top. 
The Direction- Slow paced and needed to be more action. Irvin Kishner to a huge step back with this because his previous was The Empire Strikes Back. The locations were very mundane and not very exotic. One thing Bond films have been. And finally
The Music-Here is where the movie suffers alot, First no Gun barrel opening sequence and no Pre title sequence, Sleep inducing theme song by lani Hall and Michel Legrands score now this was just one lazy careless score, The music is supposed to fit with what is going on in the film seems so out of place and from a different time and last but not least NO Jame Bond Theme you know it is a 007 film because of the classic theme somthing lacking. I just could not watch this film because everything seemed so wrong. This Movie is just an utter disgrace and Sean Connery should hold his head in shame for doing this movie He made 007 and always will be 007 in my book but this is what happens when Money talks. So if you want to see an offcial bond film from the same year watch Octopussy while not Moores best it is a fun film and his alot better than this piece of ... I would love to Give it zero stars but cant