...then you throw yourself on it.
Such is my impression of TNT's "The Mists of Avalon". MZB's book upon which this retelling is based is one of my favorite books of all time. When I heard that TNT was making a movie ersion I was excited... ooOOooooh, the same people who did "Animal Farm" and "Moby Dick" and "A Christmas Carol" (all of which I thoroughly enjoyed) were going to adapt a book which I have read and reread several times since my senior year in high school. I watched TNT looking for previews, commericials, anything in which I could see the appropriatley beautiful and haunted-looking Juliana Marguiles (as Morgaine) and the iron-faced Anjelica Houston (as Viviane) shine in their roles. And ooOOOOoooh the ads tempted and teased me. They showed a movie that was carefully constructed and lovingly filmed in perfect locations with the perfect mood.
Well, they lied. What else can I say?
When The Day finally arrived to watch, I was glued to my TV, and as time progressed I was still glued to my TV waiting for the movie to really "start". Six hours (or was it days?) later TMoA finished and I was left feeling hollow. This was it? What were they thinking?? 
It's... well, it's cheesy (when it should be dignified); it's banal (when it should be sexy); it's simple (when it should be subtle); and it's bland (when it should be interesting).  There was no meat in which to sink my teeth..  no emotions for anyone (maybe for morgaine)..  no anger at the hypocrisy of people...  *sigh*  It's another example of how A Good Book Can Go Bad on Film, which is sad because TNT had been doing so well up until then.
Told from the viewpoint of Morgaine (Le Fey), the history of Camelot is laid out as Christians and Druids vie for control of Dark Ages England by supporting the High King Arthur, each trying to ensure their survival in England's future. But here it really boiled down to a love story between Arthur and Gwenhwyfar, Gwenhwyfar and Lancelot, Lancelot and Arthur, Morgaine and Lancelot and Morgaine and Arthur. No real political or religious strife was shown; but ironically no hearts really seemed to be broken. All the passion of Camelot was dropped for the beauty of the image.. no one got dirty, the colors were way too bright, the moods were shallow and, honestly, for as much gold as Gwenhwyfar was decked out in I'm surprised she could stand up. Poor frail thing. Avalon was full up with veiled-women (which reminded me of Paradise Island in the Lynda Carter Wonder TV series) and magic that was uninteresting to say the least - where was the awe of the Goddess?  The horror of The Sight? And what was going on with Joan Allen's eye make-up?? That star-burst design was distracting in the least and Cleopatra Schwartz in the extreme. And why were all the Christians so clean?  Thomas Aquinas himself eschewed bathing in favor of fleas whom he referred to as "my little brothers".  I doubt there was that much yellow in the world back then.
To be fair, though, I *was* touched two times during the movie - when Arthur and Morgaine were separated as children; and when Mordred was told his destiny was to betray his father Arthur. There was real emotin behind those moments. Sadly, they were brief. I also have to applaud TNT for not backing down form the incest issue, as it was integral to the plot.. even if they did A.) beat it over our heads, and B.) never really explain WHY Morgaine had to have a child with Arthur. The idea that Mordred would be raised to be the next High King as he was from two royal bloodlines (Pendragon and Avalon) was lost somewhere, so the incest in the movie just became kinda... well, gross. Noble effort, bad follow through.
I really wanted to like this movie. I really did. Sorry, guys, I didn't.