Mostly Martha
 If you've seen the movie, No Reservations, starring Cathrine Zeta Jones, then you know the basics about this movie. Mostly Martha (originally Bella Martha in the German version) is the original story that inspired No Reservations. At the beginning of the movie, you are introduced to the main character, a head strong woman by the name of Martha Klein, which ironically, `Klein' means `small' in German. Our first introduction of Martha, shows us that she is a perfectionist. In the beginning narration, Martha describes how to make a perfect meal, right down to the smallest details.  She concludes that if you cannot make the dish exactly how she is explaining, then it's not worth even trying to make it.
 We see that Martha lives alone, and doesn't really have a life outside of cooking and her job, which is being a chef. One afternoon she gets a call from her sister and her niece who are coming to visit. On the way there, her sister is killed in a car accident and Martha is left to take care of her niece, Lina. It doesn't take long to see that Martha doesn't know how to live outside of work. The day after her sister's death she is back in the kitchen and trying to function, even though her life has been completely changed. When she's at home, it's clear that she doesn't know how to take care or relate to her niece. She tries to prepare fine meals for her niece, who refuses to eat the fancy food.
 While Martha is trying to figure out her life, and is forced to take some time off work, she finds out that an Italian chef had replaced her. Martha takes it personally During her time off, we journey with Martha as she learns to care for other peoples needs as well as finding who she is outside of a kitchen. We see how Martha learns the importance of friendship, It's definitely not an easy trip for her, and she finds out that she's no where near as perfect and collected as she pretends to be. For a while, we see that Martha seems to be failing in almost every aspect of her life, the life that she forgot and left behind when she became a chef. I think that this movie helps us to realize how important it is to not be tied down by labels. We see through life of Martha how important it is to not push away our family and friends.
 The story is told in a slightly humorous way that helps us feel like it is a reality. Even though Martha is a chef, with a chef's vocabulary and metaphors, she speaks in such a way that really helps the audience to accurately feel how she is feeling. We all know the desire to be loved by someone who won't give us a fair chance, and it's easy to understand Martha's struggles, and her happiness in the small victories as she gets to know her niece better. As Martha begins to find herself again through friendship, you celebrate with her and laugh as she begins to enjoy life again.
 I really enjoyed this movie the first time I saw it and I think that it's 10 times better than No Reservation. The story line, though it's the same, is more heartfelt through the German narration. I was disappointed when I watched the American version and they had taken out my favorite parts. In my opinion the characters are more believable and realistic in Bella Martha. I hope that you can enjoy the movie in the same way that I did and that you remember to not get stuck behind a label yourself. Get out a live. Don't leave the ones you love behind in your pursuit for perfection.