Ok, so I saw this film several years ago...in fact a LOT of years ago.  I was young, impressionable and I thought Ms. Taylor was the most beautiful woman on earth and this was the best movie I'd ever seen.  Fast forward to 2010. I could hardly wait to get the DVD. Well, sadly for me, the movie had lost a lot of it's previous luster. The storyline was so inept and predictable.  Bad girl wants to change her bad ways and become a respectable wife and live happily ever-after.  Too bad it's with someone else's husband.  Not that the husband is happy in his boring, sterile marriage.  The script is bad.  Gloria Wandrous...wait a minute...Wandrous did you say?  Like in 'wander'?  Yes, certainly... as Gloria wanders from party to party and man to man.  She is a high-paid call/party girl and Butterfield 8, her answering service, is the means by which her 'clients' connect to her. She is seen hopping from nightclub to nightclub, being lifted by several 'clients'  to the bar counter, smiling for the camera while pouring drinks for the lot. She is dressed to kill in a sexy little black number with white pearls.

The one thing that stands out in this tragic tale is that nobody is happy.  Gloria's mother (Mildred Dunnock) is in total denial about the line of work her daughter is involved in.  She thinks Gloria is a model. But, come on! Mother must know something is going on since the only people that ever call Butterfield 8 are men.  So mom worries about Gloria and goes around with a cloud of doom hanging over her head. She isn't happy. Weston Ligget (Laurence Harvey), the man Gloria falls for, is not a happy camper in his high-society marriage to a cool, aloof ice princess.  Of course Emily (Dina Merrill), his wife isn't happy when she discovers his infidelities, though she tries to hide it under a cool facade of patience.  Then there's Steve (Eddie Fisher), Gloria's long time friend. You can't really tell what Steve is feeling since Eddie's performance is so weak and so-o-o bad.  He comes off like a mama's boy. Too soft-spoken, too conforming to whatever situation he may find himself in. Steve's girlfriend, Norma (Susan Oliver), isn't happy that Gloria seems to be always hanging around Steve's apartment everytime she visits. It's a tale of gloom and doom for all except for the happy 'clients' when Gloria is around.  You get this gut feeling that something bad is bound to happen. Especially when a happy Gloria goes to her psychiatrist and tells him she doesn't need him anymore because she is in love.  That feeling is cemented further when she voices the same sentiment to her mother.  Then the feeling really takes root when a drunken Liggett insults her and treats her roughly in public. At that point, you know there is no recovery. Finally, the total letdown when you're proven right. Leaves a bitter taste, but hey, you knew it was coming...so predictable!

There are a few scenes that are worthwhile...Like Gloria brushing her teeth with scotch the morning after;  The sarcastic exchanges between Gloria and her mother's friend; Gloria standing motionless as Liggett throws the mink coat at her while his wife is looking undetected from the window above.  All in all it was a fun film....predictable, but fun because Ms. Taylor came across as the outstanding actor that she was. The one true constant that remained from seeing the movie years ago and now - was Liz's unchanging beauty.  She still looked as beautiful as I remembered when I first saw the film.  If you are a Taylor fan, you will no doubt enjoy this.