What exactly is 'Stigmata' trying to be?  Is it a horror/thriller?  Is it a scathing commentary against the Catholic Church?  I really couldn't tell.  While the story is flimsily entertaining, and the effects creative and almost overwhelming, the film and its message can barely hold itself together.  The acting is sufficient, so I have to blame the screenplay.  
The basic premise is: a young woman - - who happens to be an atheist - - is stricken with stigmata (a condition where the wounds of Christ's crucifixion appear on a body) after receiving a religious item from a priest who has recently died.  The handsome, hip, priest who is assigned to investigate her case is then caught in the midst of Vatican politics fueled by Church self-preservationists.  The woman, meanwhile, goes through a very "Exorcist"-like transformation.  There are some very dumbed-down plot points that you have to just swallow in order to stay with the story.  Does anyone today really not have any idea what a rosary is?  Especially anyone who lived through the late '80s - - and is familiar with Madonna, Cher, or any other of the myriad of celebrities who have rosaries tattoed to their bodies?  Does a priest, particularly a priest who is stationed out of the Vatican itself, really need to be explained about the variety of Gospels, where they came from, and why they vary?  Would a hospital really release a patient whom they believed just jammed a pointed object cleanly through both wrists?  Wouldn't they put you on suicide watch or something?  Especially after you keep coming back with other mysterious wounds and no logical explanation for them?  And the biggest farce of them all - - how does a hairdresser get medical insurance where her doctor immediately wants to implant neuro-sensors into her head to investigate the cause of her seizure-like problem?  I have a government job and I have to get an ungodly number of authorizations and referrals just to have a mole removed!
The best part of this movie is seeing Enrico Colantino, the guy who played Elliot the photographer from the tv series 'Just Shoot Me', in character as a Vatican toady with a thick Italian accent.  
The problem with 'Stigmata' is most of the characters are utterly under-developed, as is the primary plot line, and the focus is placed on the special effects, including some not-so-dazzling attempts at utilizing symbolism.  I would have appreciated a more educated approach to learning about the so-called hidden gospel, and the attempts to get the Church to release the contents, with a little less possession sensationalism.