"Moonrise Kingdom" is the best film I've seen in years.  It was flawless.  Brilliant!  And, really, I've never seen anything like it.
"Moonrise's..." uh, sensibilities... are...
whimsically nuts is one way to put it, I guess.  I'm really at a loss for words.
But I can't recall when I last had so much fun watching a movie.
SPOILER ALERT!  Essentially, this is a story about two twelve year olds (a boy and a girl) who run away from home.  Partly because they're misfits, but mostly because they've "fallen in love."
Which is exactly the sort of story I'm predisposed to dislike.  In the main, I don't care for movies featuring kids.  Never have (with only rare, rare exceptions).
But I think my bias in that regard was a non-issue with "Moonrise," because even though it stars kids -- and its plot is centered upon them -- it's not really about  kids.  Having said that, though, I'm not completely sure what "Moonrise" was about.
Director Wes Anderson took an inherently sad, melancholy --potentially tragic -- story about two kids who don't fit and made the audience (me, at least) smile and laugh while watching it.  Given that, then, I think "Moonrise" is much, much more than a charming little film about two endearing twelve year olds.
As I said earlier, however, I'm at a loss for words in trying to describe this film.  It really overwhelmed me.  First chance I get, I intend to watch it another time or two, and then try again to organize my thoughts and feelings about it.  In the meantime, though, I'll say this in closing:  "Moonrise Kingdom" is a gem of a film, and I can't begin to imagine anyone who sees it not enjoying it.
Oh... almost forgot.  Bruce Willis, Bill Murray, Frances McDormand, Ed Norton, Harvey Keitel and Tilda Swinton are all positively great in "Moonrise."  As were the two young actors.  The casting and acting in "Moonrise" are as good as it gets.
* What follows was written an hour after I wrote the preceding and added in an "edit"*
Had to take a little more time to really digest this film.
Clearly, "Moonrise" is social commentary.  But social commentary done with wit, insight and intelligence.
Wes Anderson's caricatures of people like clueless parents, self-important attorneys, simple-minded, but well-meaning scout masters, and social workers who take themselves too seriously (to mention just some of the "Moonrise" adults) are spot-on.  And people such as those invite send-ups.  Which I thought Anderson did splendidly.  And with a sense of humor.
In any case, I could go on at length about "Moonrise."  It worked for me on a number of levels.  Which is why I facetiously entitled this review "Wes Anderson For President."  Because, in my experience, it's rare, rare, rare to come across a film this well-done.
I should point out, however, that until seeing "Moonrise," that I'd never really heard of Wes Anderson.  But after seeing this film, I'm eager to check out what else he's done.