Many movie makers use to make good novel adaptions for the celluloid after previously having them converted into scripts that try to recreate the books' atmosphere. Altman, though, uses to take someone else's writings just to fit them into his personal satirical vision of corruption, lies and dishonesty inherent to us human beings, to set them, finally, into a brilliant suite of humor gags. The Long Goodbye is a special work of Altman -perhaps not as notorius as MASH, Short Cuts, The Player, etc.-, but here the satire and the black humor reach an unexpected zenith through a playwrite that is la cr&egrave;me de la cr&egrave;me...The main character -Philipp Marlowe- played by Elliot Gould, is one of the coolest and most hillarious detectives ever seen on screen. A chain-smoking curly-headed loser addicted to Marlboro cigarettes and witty wisecracking who seems to be more of that sort from the outside looking in, spins the fade of the action and meets the infamous bunch half amused and half horrorized, but never trusting anybody of them. An outsider-loner, so as Chandler figured out Marlowe in his novels and as Raymond Chandler self and the only one in possession of a bit of honesty and integrity, he tries to clear up the missing of a good friend and comes upon deeply rotten intrigues faded by stingy shrinks and a wife of wishy-washy reliability played by Danish baronessa Van Pallandt in one role out of her usual folky-hippy musical attempts of real life. Her husband, -a writer, stunnigly good played by Sterling Hayden-, delivers one of the dazzling perfomances. Meanwhile, Marlowe tries to fool his cat feeding him with the wrong brand that he dislikes -one of the most hillarious bits of the film, it takes at least five minutes-, getting to the supermarket, digging it and changing the label of the can. Other memorable moments follow, like the wanna-be-actor-chap of the parking ground impersonating Barbara Stanwyck or the Jewish gangster cracking a glas vase in his own girlfriend's face, stating: "...And this is the person I love the most in the world, now go and figure out what could I do with you -and I don't even like you". Marlowe's trip over the Mexican border turns out to be rather elucidating too. This is Altman at his best, pulling everybody to pieces, but contrary to his European counterpart Chabrol does -with the coldness and precission of a surgeon's scalpel- Altman gets to the conclusion that once the disgust's been got over, humor is the only weapon left to can stand up all the rotten things in this world.