Back in the fall of 2002 I saw the promo for a new show called "Everwood". The storyline intrigued me. I usually try to pick one new show per year to watch and stay with. I chose "Everwood" for that year. I was fed up with endless and frenetic crime, lawyer,reality, and medical shows which now grace (and saturate) our airwaves. This seemed different. The show intrigued me from the beginning. Shortly into the series I became aware that the writers of this show were doing something very clever, but I could not put my finger on it. About mid way through the series I figured it out on my way to work. The writers had worked a subtle Rockwell motif into the story. It is most explicitly seen in the opening credits during the first season. The shots of the cast are not only done in Rockwell's style but are also seen in quintessential Rockwellian settings. A clever twist- take a hip, yet disfunctional, New York family of the 21st century and plunk it down in "fly-over country" - the small town America of Norman Rockwell. The  motif was again alluded to, when, in a later episode, I noticed a copy of Rockwell's  "Country Doctor" hanging on the wall of the doctor's den. The point was then made quite explicit in the episode "Miracle of Everwood" when the journalist makes reference to the picture as he attempts to justify the inaccurate story he is going to publish. I was pleased to discover that in the commentary track Berlanti talks about the motif in the opening credits and how hard and expensive it was to do. Details and texture such as this can add so much to the storytelling.  Furthermore, some of the editing was of a very high quality and emulated a lot of techniques used in cinema: graphic matches, matches on action etc. Whoever chose the songs also did a very good job. The selections were not just the music popular today (also designed to sell more WB cds). Some great standards from the past were used as well, such as Etta James' "At Last". I have great respect for Berlanti and the writers on this show. The constraints of the medium force them to work very fast and to appeal to as big a market as possible.In such an environment it is hard to produce anything that rises above the level of schlock. Thus, it always amazes me when anything really good emerges from such a format. While I, like other fans of the show, am disappointed to see it cancelled, I have to say that the miracle is that it lasted as long as it did. Given the moronic network it was on and the minimal backing it received, we were fortunate to get four years out of it. While it was killed off undoubtedly before its time - there is one blessing. It will remain one show that never "jumped the shark". The idiots at CW have seen to that.