ever since this series was canceled in what 1992 fans have been crying out.  At first it was the first oneline attempt to save a show (most of the protest sites can still be found on goggle; and some still have protest letters you can send to the producers but it's all over now but the the shoutin' and all the actors have gone on to other projects).  This show was goth before there was a word for goth.  Emo before emo was a word.  But both those tags are disingenous.  This show was prophetic in that it depicted socially rejected people in the 90's before nirvana ever hit a chord on the guitar and before bevis and butthead ever hit the air.  It was socially relevant before most shows had the balls to represent the rejected. Fans who know it and recognize it you must inform all the others who don't know what this series represents.  While this is one of the most fan beloved shows on tv (the protests on its 3rd successive cancelation launched the very first ever oneline campain to save a TV show!) it has fallen into obscurity (look at the rankings on previous seasons).  I will not say like my previous listing that this release is totaly for the fans. But, i will say all the fans owe it to buffy, angel, stargate, stargate atlantis, firefly, smallville, timecop, 24 (the lead from this series is a baddie in one of the seasons of 24 look it up!), battlestar galatica, highlander (movies and tv), lost, the prisoner, the avengers (yes the whole run), alias, wonder woman, dark angel, supernatural, the man from u.n.c.l.e, babylon 5, the tomorrow people , I spy, the X-files (which were also for the first five i think seasons produced in the same part of toronto), due south, friday the 13th the series, (i could go on but i hope u know what i mean by now that this series was the first in a line...) and many, many lesser known shows, buy this offering now. It is both a fan favorite and a pice of TV history.  Many, many series owe thier life to this series.  It's a must see.  Many of the previously listed series (some are not, some are not listed! like i have all day to list them) derive some plot point of inspiration form this series.  It is truely a must see for fans of the genre and fans of TV drama all around (like the smallville and the Buffy ref is in one episode only each i leave it up to fans to list it!)