An incredibly historic cinematic experience based on the John Steinbeck novel is only marred the DVD's commentary by film critic Richard Schickel. His narrow focus provides little historical enlightenment to the film. Schickel gives biased opinions on performance and subjects his listening audience to lame "actor subtext" a child would have understood without his "expertise". Elia Kazan's understanding of the new wave in acting techniques (i.e. the Actor's Studio's approach to realism) appears to completely mystify the commentator. "East of Eden" ("On the Waterfront" and "A Streetcar Named Desire" are certainly in this same category) was a powerful explosion of raw emotional purism on the screen rarely explored in earlier cinematic efforts. Clearly Kazan's work has heavily influenced the realism of America's next generational tier of filmmakers.

Frankly I resented Schickel's unschooled perceptions on the art of acting Lee Strasberg revolutionized with The Method. An actor must be truthful to each moment of a scene. Much of Dean's performance in the film is completely improvised (bible readings, dance in the bean field and his ride home on the train curled in his sweater.) But the most famous improvisation was the pivotal birthday party scene. Instead of running away from his father as the script called for, Dean instinctively turned to Massey tragically embraced him. This take and Massey's unscripted reaction were kept in the film by Kazan. James Dean's haunting outburst stands as a testament of the Acting Method's stylistic honesty. Schickel's language choice to describe Dean's woeful reaction as "whining, childishness, and pewling" is just sophomoric. His attack on Dean's acting "range" denigrated by "his inexperience and age" is so bizarre (Dean, playing an age appropriate character in Cal, had just won a Tony Award [The Immoralist] and received a Best Actor Oscar nomination for the film.) It should be noted Kazan was thrilled with Dean's interpretation so please trust the director not the jaded critic. But I do agree with Schickel's following statement that his thoughts are in the "minority."

Buy this great American classic ... just ignore the commentary.