I used to really enjoy Family guy, but in all honesty, I think I've just lost interest, or at least I've outgrown its more recent style of humor. I don't mind the half season DVDs; that's just the way it is, and if you're a fan, you'll suck it up and buy it regardless. I do wish that I would have bought this at amazon rather than paying $12 more for it locally, however. I really liked volumes 1 and 2 of this show; Volumes 3 and 4 were still quite enjoyable, although the anti-Christian and, to a lesser extent, the  anti-Bush things were beginning to bother me a little. Even volume 5 was mostly OK; The coolwhip bit will absolutely never get old for me, and I got a real kick out of watching the anamatic episodes.
This brings me to Volume 6. Even though I've primarily been into watching my ever-growing collection of British DVDs lately, I popped the first disc of Family Guy Volume 6 into the DVD player almost as soon as I got it home. Ever since Volume 3, I've always gone for watching the commentary tracks first; even though they're somewhat offensive in places, I've more often than not found them to be both humorous and informative. I didn't even make it off the first disc this time. Maybe I was just in the wrong frame of mind, or perhaps I've just become too accustomed to the practicly wholesome nature, at least when compared with these most recent episodes of Family Guy, to British TV shows.
Whatever the reason, I just couldn't bring myself to watch past the 3rd or 4th episode of Family Guy Volume 6.
I know I'll probably get negative feedback for this review, but even though I am a concervative Christian, I like to think I have a good sense of humor. I don't like profanity, but can handle it in small amounts if necessary.
The things I don't like about family guy these days are the changes several other people have mentioned regarding Stewie.
More than that, though, I don't like the character of Herbert; that character is creepy, not at all funny, and should have never become such a regular. The other thing that really bothers me is that Brian dates human women. He's supposed to be a dog! Also, at least so far as I can tell, Brian seems to be primarily responsible for a lot of the anti-Christian and anti-Bush remarks that seem to be dominating the show recently.
Bottom line, I got this volume of Family Guy to keep my collection complete, but I wish that I would have waited to buy it when I could have gotten it much cheaper. For the time being, however, I believe that my money would have been much better if saved up and put towards completing either my Hugh Laurie or David Jason DVD collections.