performances I've seen by an actress in a LONG TIME!  On first viewing, I found the film good, and Angelina's performance pretty impressive, but I  was of the opinion that Gia was a confused, annoying woman who contributed  to her own demise.  Then I happened to watch the film again and this time,  I was totally blown away.  Why, I couldn't tell you for sure.  Maybe it's  because the performance by Angelina is so layered, so intriguing and so  complex and one that you have to watch at least twice to appreciate on all  of its levels.  She captures the sexy/sensual Gia, the confident young Gia  taking on the modeling world and the scared little girl Gia, who only  wanted to be loved.  
Even if you're one who would write off the  performance as showy after the first viewing (Gia's life had the  ingredients that made for great drama), for some reason, you do come back  again, and at that point, you're hooked.  That second time you watch  closely, and you see how Angelina turns Gia from someone who I felt  contributed to her own demise, to someone I was sympathetic towards after  the second viewing.  Angelina's performance has me admiring Gia for how she  lived life on her own terms and feeling heartbroken that it had to end so  soon.  Elizabeth Mitchell and Mercedes Ruehl are also very good, in strong  supporting roles, playing the two women in Gia's life that, in the end,  mattered most.  The scene that I found most powerful was when Mitchell's  character is trying to keep Gia from choosing  drugs over her.  It is at  that moment that she realizes she's got to get away because she can't stand  to see Gia destroy herself.  I also love the closing scene, where Gia  arises and walks on to eternity, her words serving as a punctuation to a  life lived on its own terms.  
It's Angelina's performance that is  amazing, and the power of that performance lingers for quite a while.  If  this film was theatrically released, there would have been no way she would  have lost the Oscar that year.  No performance by an actress has come close  since.