Super Troopers (2002), is the rare comedy that has managed to sneak into my burgeoning DVD collection -- I generally prefer drama, action, horror, and sci-fi movies. My initial reason for purchasing this disc was because Brian Cox had a small supporting role, and I'm very pleased with his performance here.

Usually I'd just launch into the plot, but I'd like to introduce you to these funny characters; Farva (Kevin Heffernan), Foster (Paul Soter), Mac (Steve Lemme), Rabbit (Erik Stolhanske), and Ramathorn (Jay Chandrasekhar) are all bumbling Vermont State Troopers at imminent risk of losing their beloved station house to discretionary budget cuts.

Perhaps this group of actors sounds unfamiliar? They're part of the Broken Lizard comedy troupe. They're the same people responsible for that Beerfest movie that came out this past summer. Anyways, these guys did a superb job delivering a sidesplitting movie framed upon dopy arch rivalry between bored city and state cops.

Events taking place in this film occur in the fictional Vermont town of Spurbury. The movie begins with a roadside confrontation between Ramathorn, Rabbit, and three joyriding teens stoned on pot. The cops pull a joke on the teens, hoping to scare them. Musical accompaniment from The Unband further enhances the scene.

Right after that, there's a moment in M's Cozy Corner Diner when troopers Rabbit and Ramathorn engage in a syrup chugging contest -- and end up starting a melee with four yahoos from the local Spurbury police. This ruckus is halted by Captain O'Hagan (Brian Cox) and Chief Grady (Daniel Von Bargen).

The comedy keeps getting edgier. Trooper Farva (suspended from patrol) is the acting police dispatcher, and he relishes hazing his coworkers at the station house meetings with idiotic tomfoolery like putting soap bars in the coffee. Troopers Womack "Mac" and Foster also have fun harassing lead-footed Vermont speeders with inane word games.

Really unexpected -- I could summarize the gags repeatedly -- but one third of the way through the film, a plot revolving around a murder and a slipshod drug bust develops. Just for good measure, love appears in the mix when jovial Trooper Foster falls for Spurbury's lovely dispatcher Ursula (Marisa Coughlan).

One of the funnier scenes takes place at a baseball game when Ramathorn's son Arlo is at bat. Foster visits the concession stand where he runs into Ursula (who's also off duty), and she jokingly remarks that he can slug her since she hit him at the prior melee. While Ursula's eyes are closed tight, Arlo's homer pops her in the face and Foster ends up wearing a sno cone.

Of course -- this hapless troop just isn't that smart. Rabbit pulls a stupid stunt and Captain O'Hagan yanks him off patrol. This gives Farva a chance to go on patrol again, but he blows it immediately by assaulting a sarcastic counter clerk at Dimpus Burger.

Perhaps the only way these goons can save themselves is if they solve the bungled drug case before Governor Jessman's (Lynda Carter) campaign swings through Spurbury.

Eventually the troopers deduce Chief Grady is cooperating with Canadian drug dealers, and affect a last minute collar after a drunken fistfight. Unfortunately it's all for naught, and the precinct is closed. However, all five (minus O'Hagan) end up working for the Spurbury PD.

Repeat viewing of Super Troopers will not disappoint. The picture is bright and clean and the soundtrack is endlessly engaging. Besides the score from .38 Special, you'll experience tracks from individuals and bands such as Bubbles, Charles Burbank, Jack Grace Band, Nashville Puss-y, Royal Fingerbowl, Southern Culture on the Skids, and Steak.

Super Troopers is a classic comedy -- on par with American Pie, Friday, or Office Space -- and it's hilarious. The screenplay and the capable direction by Jay Chandrasekhar really stand out. The cast apparently had a great time making the film, and their enthusiasm shows up on the screen. I also savored the outtakes and wrap party video included in the special features.