While the reign of the dinosaurs has been a subject movies have done to death, the era and animals that came afterwards has seen little screen time. This changed in the period between November 2001 and March 2002 with the release of the BBC's "Walking With Beasts" and Fox's "Ice Age".
"Ice Age", starring the voice talents of Ray Romano, John Leguizamo, and Dennis Leary, is the story of three unlikely heroes who band together to return a human child to its tribe. As the story goes, Manny the Mammoth (Romano) and Sid the Sloth (Leguizamo) run across a dying mother and her baby, both of which have been seperated from their tribe by a pack of saber-tooth cats seeking revenge on the baby's father. One of the "tigers", Diego (Leary) is sent by the pack's leader to retrieve the baby, and attempts to lead Manny and Sid to the tigers' liar for dinner, with the two unsuspecting herbivores as the main course. Meanwhile, the audience is treated to the antics of a prehistoric rodent, Scrat (voiced by the director, Chris Wedge), a combination of a rat, squirrel, and raccoon, as he tries, unsuccessfully, to bury his acorn for the winter.
Coming on the coat tails of Dreamwork's "Shrek" and Disney and Pixar's "Monsters Inc.", comparisons with the latter movies are unavoidable. And there are parallels with the earlier movies; the "return the kid" plot is shared by "Monsters Inc.", Manny does have the same sort of "loner" attitude that Shrek had, and Sid has attributes that are shared by Eddie Murphy's Donkey in "Shrek". There is also elements of the original "Jungle Book" spinkled in; the lead saber, Soto, is a near perfect copy of Shere Kahn. However, "Ice Age" has enough twists in it to be unique from the other movies. 
If you're looking for this movie to match the animation quality seen in "Walking with Beasts", forget it. The animation is not done in any "realistic" sense, and it doesn't pretend to, unlike Disney's "Dinosaurs". Although the animators for "Ice Age" did study the fossils from this period, it is clear they took a more artistic license to the animals. However, for Blue Skies and Fox's first foray into a CGI feature film, it isn't bad. The story and humor are enough to keep even adult's minds off the more artistic animation this film presents. The character interaction is nearly priceless; despite the fact the actors more than likely never saw each other, the chemistry comes off very well.
Fans of DVDs will also be pleased with the extras that can be found on the second disc. Along with "Scrat's Missing Adventure", one can find the "Making of..." documentaries, will be amused by "Sid on Sid", and can see the scenes and concepts that never made it into the final cut. There are also games for youngsters for PCs with DVD drives.
In all, *Ice Age* proves that can stand up to other movies such as "Shrek" or the "Toy Story" series. Although not as funny as "Shrek", it does rank above "Monsters Inc.", IMHO. Although it will probably not become a true "classic", it will certainly keep audiences amused for years to come.