I am a big QT fan without a doubt. I have seen all of his movies minus Death Proof. I awaited his "war movie" ever since I read on his website about his desire to make one.
Today I got to watch Inglorious Basterds for the first time and while It had me on the edge of my seat the entire time, I thought to myself that some of the music and things that made Kill Bill original just came off as a redundant carbon copy and annoying this time around. If he wants to use a particular technique in his films, be it a visual theme, or a certian hybridization of his favorite genres, that is a wonderful thing. But to recycle these unique tricks in a second movie makes it seem like he is either really out of ideas, or so full of himself that you think we will love to see these tricks over and over again.
It irritates me a bit to see a period movie with music in it that is not from that period (ex: "A Nights Tale"). While I believe that music can be done effectively, I think that we as the audience get the point that he loves to mix the 70's blaxploitation and the spaghetti western. I think it would be a unique departure for QT to leave his trademark style behind and do a movie without the tricks and gadgets. These types of techniques will make me cringe eventually, instead of making me look forward to another Tarantino release.
In this movie we have the Gore of "Dogs" with some of the exact same music, intertitles, and comic book charachter reveals from Kill Bill.  As a QT movie, he hasn't necessarily added any new recipes to his menu.  It is almost as if he has read too many reviews from people who aren't otherwise capable of following his non linear continuity, so he "dumbed" his style down with Chapter Intertitles.
I would like to see QT also leave his fetishes in the bedroom for once. Im not dissing the foot fetish, but putting it in every single movie is getting on my nerves. There are a billion other things worth capturing on celluloid than the different types of foot coverings and positions a lady's toes might find themselves in. Gimme a freakin break! "Okay in this scene your foot will be dressed in distress, though still in a 40's pump fashion, okay? We still need a closeup on the dolled up foot, so lets see some plantar flexion in 5...4..3..okay..."

I also have to say that Id like to see a QT movie that doesn't have Samuel L Jackson or Harvey Keitel anywhere in it. We get it, he likes his troupe, but it is little things like this that made me roll my eyes during this particular piece that kept me from giving it 5 stars. Im through complaining now, perhaps.

I gave this movie a review, because if moved me to do so. I don't normally review things, but this is an exception. The actors in this movie were great, and aside from the reasons listed above of why this movie isn't an A+, everything else in this movie was Best Picture calibre. The nazi bullying was intense, and even though none of the antagonists in the film were creepy, their sense of evil comes at you from the other charachters. This was simply brilliant.

It is worth watching, but my overall opinion is now QT needs to retire all of his old tricks, leave some of his old standby actors behind, and really reinvent himself.  This will be of prime importance in my opinion if Tarantino is to be remembered as one of the Great directors of this century.

I still love his work, I still will look forward to his films, but if I watch another movie of his with the same tricks from Kill Bill, I will puke on my bootlegged DVD copy of it.