Have you ever stopped and listened to the sounds all around you?  Did you hear the crickets, the wind chimes, the sounds of the wind?  They create music, a symphony when all is put together.  It is so beautiful and majestic.  Even taking in the scenery that paints pictures before you, can add to the wonders of the natural sounds.  August Rush (2007) is the perfect movie to turn your attention to these everyday surroundings.  Not only is it a movie of music and the power it holds, but it is also a movie of love, whether it be romantic love, friendly love, or the love of a family.  August Rush has it.  Its story line is unique, and is harmoniously constructed.
 I give a great deal of credit to the writers, James V. Hart (screenplay), Nick Castle (screenplay and story), and Paul Castro (story).  I applaud the producers, the crew behind the movie, and the director, Kirsten Sheridan.  There were many camera angles used; most were close-ups, but some long shots were included.  There was a scene at the beginning of the film where both of these types of shots were shown.  Lyla Novacek, (Keri Russell), and Louis Connelly, (Jonathan Rhys Meyers), just met on the rooftop of a building, and the close-ups of their faces showed sparkles in their eyes, they both looked happy and free.  In this same scene, a long shot showed a man walking, later to be revealed as Wizard, (Robin Williams), on the sidewalk beneath them playing a harmonica.  The camera was zoomed out and in when necessary, and used in so many different angles.  At one point the camera zoomed out rapidly from a close-up on Russell, when she thought she saw her son.  The watcher could really get a feel for the characters throughout the movie.
 It was great to see the way the music carried emotions, the lighting formed a scene or character, and the shots told the viewer what to think and feel about what was being shot.  The different sets, especially the broken down theater, proved that the props and sets were well thought about.  The costumes were mainly modern day, and the accents of the actors fit who they were described to be.  For example, Louis was an Irish character, and that's just the accent he carried.  Symbolism came with the moon and music, which was the connection between Evan Taylor, (Freddie Highmore), Lyla, and Louis.  Wizard said a quote in the movie that revealed the role symbolism played in this particular film.  He said, "Music is...God's little reminder there's something else besides us in this universe.  Harmonic connection between all living beings everywhere, even the stars."  The setting took place in numerous cities.  They were, San Francisco, Chicago, and a few different cities in New York, all mentioned in the movie at least once.
 The movie started out with capturing the viewer as, Evan Taylor/August Rush, spoke while only a black screen showed.  He was an orphan who believed the music talked to him.  He even ran away from the orphanage because "the music told him to."  He was on the search of his parents, listening to the music to find his way.  Along the way, he met a boy named Arthur X, (Leon G. Thomas III), who introduced Evan to Wizard.  After discovering the musical prodigy that Evan was, and fearing that he would be taken away, Wizard gave Evan Taylor the name of August Rush.  August continued his journey with the help of other characters throughout the film. As he searched for Lyla, his mother, she, soon after, began the search for him, and Louis, his father, began the search for her.  The movie shows these three different lives and how they are intertwined.  Richard Jeffries, (Terrance Howard), winds up playing a big part in the paths of these characters.  August's life and search was the main focus though.  His search revealed yet another symbol, a necklace, which symbolized that he was on the right track in his journey.
  This original script will fill you with emotion, questions, and even wonder.  Lie back, and let the music take you away in this hope filled, love story.  Discover how a necklace showed that August was on the right track.  Embrace new levels of imagination as music brings magic to the film and opens you up to ideas you never thought possible.  Answer your own questions: Are Lyla, Louis, and August ever connected together?  Does the music bring them to the end of their search on a high note?  Follow the music and find out for yourself in August Rush.