I bought a Blu ray player a few months ago.  At 39 years old I was really hoping to see some of my favorite movies in this new HD format.  Some movies seem to really benefit from this format (Kubrick's re-releases, Fifth Element, etc.).  And some movies don't seem to take full advantage of the HD format.

So it is with great pleasure that I say that this edition of Close Encounters of the Third Kind is quite simply "amazing!"  Yes, the film is 30 years old.  And some grain is to be expected.  But wow, what a transfer!  The colors pop off the screen.  The contrast is nice and sharp, but not in a bad way.  The dark scenes are virtually flawless.  The color tones and overall look of the entire film is breahtaking.  The audio easily makes this a reference Blu Ray disc and will really test your system.

I'm not sure how much of the look of this film is due to the recent digital remastering and how much is simply due to the HD format, but the end result is enough to give you goose bumps.

The movie may be 30 years old, but this transfer makes it look as though it was released this year.

Worth noting is, thanks to the Blu Ray format, this release is just two discs (not 3 discs as in the standard def format).  All three versions of the film (original Theatrical release, Special Edition release, and the edition for this set, Director's Cut) are ALL on the first disc.  Disc two contains all the special features.  And there's hours of non-filler, must-watch stuff on this disc too. A 2007 interview with Spielberg and cast talking about the versions, an almost 2-hour documentary from Collector's Edition release, 42 minute "Making of" documentary.  After watching all the special features I want to go back and watch the film again.

The Director's Cut seems to be the one to watch since it is Speilberg's idea of the how the movie should look.  Worth noting is the deirector's cut of the movie removes the scene inside the mother ship.  Wich Speilberg admits in the special features was a compromise with the studio to fund a few extra scenes for the Special Edition.  (The "Director's Cut" is a combination and re-cut of the original release and the special edition.)

In colclusion, a fantastic release that seems to embrace the benefits that the Blu Ray format offers.  A stunning and breathtaking transfer of an already great movie.  The transfer is so good that you'll feel like you're watching it for the first time all over again.  I suspect this release will be in most Blu Ray owner's libraries.