FIGHT FOR THE DELETED SCENES!  In March of 2000, New Line DVD approached David Lynch and asked him if he would be willing to allow the release of  some of these deleted scenes to be included with their upcoming Twin Peaks:  Fire Walk With Me DVD. David Lynch gave the thumbs up, but only to add  these scenes as a supplement at the end of the disc. Mr. Lynch also  personally hand picked the scenes that he wished to be released with this  DVD.  Now at this time, it has been reported that New Line is currently in  negotiations with Ciby 2000 to acquire the rights to add these scenes to  their DVD release. However, in November of 1998, Lynch sued Ciby 2000 for  breach of contract and won a 6.5 million dollar settlement. At this years  Twin Peask Festival, it was revealed that Ciby in fact is asking way too  high of a price for these deleted scenes. (Almost as much as it would cost  to buy the rights to FWWM TWICE !) This may dissuade New Line from  purchasing these scenes. What we are trying to do is let New Line know in  massive, MASSIVE numbers how much we would like to have these scenes  included on this DVD, and that if they would purchase the rights to these  scenes, that we would be willing to pay extra to help defray costs. We are  hoping that if we can get enough people to politely write or email New Line  and let them know how important the inclusion of these scenes would be,  they will do what it takes to bring these deleted scenes to us on their  upcoming DVD. At this point, New Line will not confirm whether or not this  DVD will include these scenes. They have confirmed, however that the disc  will be out in the fourth quarter of 2000. (Hopefully a December 19th  planned release date) Although they have yet to make any announcement on  their website. Time is Running Out ! This is Probably THE Last Chance That  We Will Ever Have to See Anything "New" From the World of Twin  Peaks. We are urging you to write to New Line and let them know that you  want to see the Deleted Scenes to Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me ! You can  email New Line at dvdteam@newline.com