I expected this movie to be terrible by the way the critics ripped it to shreds. Instead I found it to be an engaging emotional roller coaster and was crying by the end of it. I think this is a movie that might not stand up to critical scrutiny as a great piece of cinema, but as human beings, it hits us where we live. Even if you're not married, or have only been for a short time, if you've ever loved anyone or been in a relationship, you can understand it and recognize yourself in it, because the people that we love sometimes are the ones that make us the most crazy. 
Many of the comments I have read stated that they didn't understand why the two of them got back together in the end, that Katey Jordan's reasoning didn't seem to mesh with her original complaints. But it seemed right to me - it was obvious that although they had many problems, they loved each other very much and it would have been a tragedy if they couldn't have stayed together. The separation was necessary to prove that to them, prove how much they still wanted to be a family and to be together. There's something to be said for a shared history of love and struggle, and as Katey said, every relationship has its problems, the one that you're in or any other new one you might start. I think that as a society we see marriage as the be-all and end-all, and as soon as we hit any problems or difficulties, we assume there's something wrong with the relationship or our partners or us, and that we should wipe the slate and try for "happily ever after" with someone else. The truth is that every relationship is work. There are gobs of movies about the beginning of love - which is nice, but there ought to be more stories like this - stories about what happens *after* happily ever after. 
My only complaint with the film was the attempts to be funny. I can understand wanting to leaven the intense emotions with some comic relief, but the sequences with Rob Reiner and especially Rita Wilson (who have both been better in other things) were downright painful to watch they were so unfunny. I always have to fast forward through Rita Wilson's shrill and cliched diatribes about husbands and marriage. The scene with all the sex and masturbation jokes with Reiner and Willis and Paul Reiser wasn't offensive, but it wasn't funny at all. Those scenes needed to be rewritten, and someone should have told Rita to take it down a notch.