This film has been mentioned in the same breath as so called "hood films" such as Clockers and Menace 2 Society, I had heard it was set in a NYCHA housing project and so I bought it partly for visual research purposes for an upcoming final year degree project which may or may not involve architectural renderings of a NYCHA housing project, but partly because I enjoyed other apparently similar films.

 This film is absolute lightweight all the way. It may be "important", and back in '91 it may have been hardcore, gritty, convincing, etc. etc. but watching it in 2005 it packs a weak punch.

 It is not set in a NYCHA project, and the street lifestyle that is tackled so superbly for example in Menace is never even approached here. This movie instead chooses to go the route of King of New York, but Wesley Snipes is no Frank White. New Jack was instead set around an apartment building called "The Carter", which were we not told it was a crackden looked like a pricey, well-kept appartment block that totally lacked any edge or atmosphere whatsoever.

 The film utilised several times a helicopter fly-over of the area surrounding "The Carter", in much the same vein the beginning of Menace panned over Watts and Jordan Downs; but where Menace succeeded in capturing a palpable atmosphere of feral ghetto landscape and an implied simmering below the surface with its fly-over scene, New Jack's left you wondering why the film's director bothered setting the movie in such an unintimidating place, and then bothered to show it to you by means of a helicpter fly-over.

 Snipes and his crew look like a wannabe Run DMC, never convincing, never gritty, none of the darker more subtle aspects of criminality of the nature apparently portrayed in this film are ever even brushed upon. Snipes' Toni Montana impressions made me cringe, however good they may have been. This film was not tuned in, it simply didn't appear to have its feet on the ground.

 Ice T was plain annoying with his pseudo-racist, "street" policeman with the most annoying voice, accent and lines I have come across. He acted out every simple-minded stereotype of the character he was trying to portray, all the while smug and convinced of his own worth. Every scene with him in it annoyed me immensely.

 The only characters who seemed to do a stand-up job were Chris Rock's crack-head, and Mario Van Peebles' detective.

 New Jack is a lightweight crime drama that fails to deliver on most of its chosen frontiers, there are other films out there that tackle New Jack's chosen subjects in immeasurably superior ways.