I bought this DVD for research purposes.  I will be performing in "Promises, Promises" the musical based on "The Apartment".  I am so glad I bought this DVD, as this is a great film.  That's not just my opinion.  "The Apartment" was nominated for 10 Academy Awards, and won 5, including Best Picture and Best Director in 1960.

This film will speak to you on many levels.  On one level, it is an indictment of corporate politics and a condemnation of philandering executives.  On another level, it is an examination of extramarital affairs, and the sometimes dire consequences.  On another level, it is a love story where a damsel in distress literally meets her white knight.  Then again, it is about people who fall into the abyss, only to find redemption and the happiness they deserve.  It is about knowing what is right, and finally finding the courage to do what is right.

The cinematography is great, as is the lighting.  The setup is perfect.  We are shown the enormity of a life insurance company, with its 31,000 employees in the Manhattan headquarters.  The shots of the teeming, faceless humanity are fantastic.  The long shots of the endless office are fabulous, and will make you appreciate black and white.  Out of this morass, we are asked to get to know 3 people; C.C. Baxter (Jack Lemmon), Fran Kubelik (Shirley Maclaine) and J.D. Sheldrake (Fred Macmurray).  They are embroiled in a love triangle that will change all of their lives.

The late, great, Jack Lemmon is a wonderful C.C. (Chuck) Baxter.  Lemmon was a dapper 35 years of age when this film was made.  He wants to get ahead, and he does so by selling himself out.  He loans his apartment to senior executives for their extramarital assignations.  They in turn promise to move him up the corporate ladder.  There is humor in this, as Baxter trys to juggle "appointments" with 4 different execs.  But, as in the rest of this film, there is a pathos to it.

Chuck has quite a thing for cute elevator operator Fran, played by a 26 year old Shirley Maclaine.  She returns his innocent flirtations, but for some reason keeps her distance.  Maclaine is all sweetness and vulnerability.  So, why won't she go out with Chuck?

As it turns out, Fran has a boyfriend.  That boyfriend is the Director of Personnel, J.D. Sheldrake.  Sheldrake is quite married, and has slept with many women in the office, including his Secretary Peggy Olsen.  Macmurray plays a wonderful cad.  He is not sleazy or oily.  He is able to continue stringing Fran along until one fateful Christmas Eve.

I won't continue discussing the plot, as you need to experience it as it unfolds.  While "what happens next" is not a huge leap of the imagination, the skill of the actors and the sensitive direction make for fascinating viewing.  There are some great scenes in this film.  The pivotal Christmas Eve scene with Sheldrake and Fran will get you at a visceral level.  Macmurray and Maclaine shine here; her with vulnerability and his meeting her vulnerability with incredible insensitivity.  Brilliant.  Lemmon shines in the "discovery" scene when he figures out that Fran is involved with Sheldrake.  Sheldrake had borrowed the apartment for a rendezvous with Fran, and Fran left her compact behind.  The compact had a broken mirror. Chuck, not knowing who it belonged to, returned it to Sheldrake.  Later, at a Christmas Eve party, Fran loans her mirror to Chuck, who recognizes it.  Lemmon communicated so many emotions with his face, his voice, and his body.  He was such an actor.

This movie is listed among the Top 100 movies of all time, and it deserves a place on your shelf.

Highly recommended.