I think Wournos had a little Anne Heche syndrome which a surprising amount of women rebels and lesbians seem to conveniently get. Mental illness, threats, extreme, strange abuses.... did you know that male supremacist secret societies like Christian secret groups, white supremacists, the mob, freemasons, millionaires boys clubs and other groups practice psyche warfare and certain women seem to be getting these troubles more than others. At one point in the documentary (not this movie) she says they are using sonic pressure on her ears. The government and other psyche warfare groups actually do use techniques like this in hostage situations etc... and the CIA have done experiments with these and other techniques to manipulate people mentally. We are living in fascist country and she could well have been being driven mad. Some of these techniques are very focused and subversive, so if you are a target, getting proof or convincing others to believe you will be hard.

Wournos reminds me of John Brown of Bleeding Kansas fame, she mentions that people kill for all sorts of reasons - religions (usually male supremacists and anti-women's freedom religions) wars over resources etc... but you kill in defense of a woman's body and freedom, you get thrown in the crucifixion machine (lying media, court system, death system.) If you're against religions that practice child sacrifice and torture (Christianity especially) against animal abuse or the slavery of women you are shut down or shut up. Wuornos knew what happens, many of us are threatened, raped, tortured or killed. Watch the Stoning of Soraya M. and know that we are already living that reality in this country. Men define our morality (and it usually has something to do with being their slaves or "subject in all things" as per the bible) and then brutalize us for defying it. Secret male supremacist groups rule our lives in this so-called "free" country. Your right to vote is an illusion. Defy the male rule society and you stand a good chance of going mad, being conveniently afflicted with "stressors" psyche warfare style (lose the job, relationship, family, death in the family or friends. pets, using children or pets as hostages and threats)-  the networks of white and/or male supremacists do these things. White supremacists have openly stated they're using women to breed for their armies having many children per family. Male supremacists are doing this also and brain controlling children from a young age for breeders and slaves. Free speech is often a lie, many of us have trouble getting our message out there. You must stand up and fight back. The word is they are selling San Fran as the city of joy for homosexuals and then plan on destroying it. Do not gather in large numbers in one place, disperse yourself throughout the nation in groups large and small. If you are black or any race, do not gather in large numbers in one city. Homosexuals same thing. White supremacists are targeting you as are Christian fascists. If you gather in very large numbers you are in danger of being exterminated.

This movie portrays her as grotesque and clueless as the people attacking her would like. I bet she wasn't. In high stress the first thing to go is your mind and hygiene, not high on your list of priorities when being assaulted continually, which is why people in the know often end up crazy and on the streets talking about conspiracy theories (which have a lot of basis in reality). Do not believe psyche and image warfare. Aileen was a possible feminist folk hero to me and she was discredited because of the damage done to her mind, which is a common trick. In spite of the attacks to her psyche she was a strong fighter.