Before The Girl Next Door (GND) came out, I was sitting watching previews saying to myself "I really hope this isn't just another gross out, teen comedy like American Pie."  Now, don't get me wrong with American Pie.  I loved the series, but it's been done too many times and it's tired.  So, naturally before I saw this I ha to check out the reviews.  Let's just say I was pleasantly surprised at it being called sweet and romantic.
Well, the day finally came that I was going to see it.  In the past few months the reviews I read are either completely opposite or dead on in a bad way.  Not this time my friends!  As a guy, of course I didn't find it sweet or romantic, but I wasn't like the other ogres in the theater that hooted and hollered every time a girl came on-screen with little or nothing on either.  What i found really interesting and original about GND was that it did in thirty minutes what other romantic comedies take the entire two hours to accomplish yet at the same time gets you to like and care for the two lead characters, Matt and Danielle (Athena).  Also, another interesting aspect is the boy loses girl, boy gets girl back scenario embelished on.  In GND it's made into boy loses girl, boy gets girl, girl helps boy get stolen money back by helping him with a porn direction scam on prom night.  
The thing that surprised me most is that the female lead, played by the lovely and talented Elisha Cuthbert of 24, isn't really all that exposed to the camera if you catch what I mean.  That's another thing I liked about it was that it avoided being overly raunchy like American Pie but it rather made you laugh or made you want to yell "Just kiss her!" at the screen.  That is what made this movie such a big surprise.
To some it all up, I'll just say I left GND with my mind totally elated because this movie made me so happy.  I saw it again for the second time two days later and it made me even happier watching it again.  It takes turns you may or may not see coming without being too predictable.  Of course you're going to guess certain plot points, but that's what makes the movie going experience so enjoyable.  It's wondering if you're right or not in your prediction.  This is the first film of the year that I actually liked.  Correction...  I loved it!  it's amazing!  Don't just take my word for it, go see it for yourself.