I think I enjoyed this primarily because it was different to the first two Terminator movies. Sure, the plot was the same. Killer robot gets sent back in time to assassinate the leader of the human resistance, and another killer robot is sent back to protect him.
The difference with this movie, though, is that the one sent back to do the protecting at no time gets sentimental, warm and fuzzy, or lovey dovey. There is the distinct impression, throughout the entire film, that this particular T-101 terminator could just as easily turn around and snap Connor's neck as take a bullet for him.
There are plenty of one-liners to be had, some corny and some not. The scene at the start where Arnie acquires his clothing is totally hysterical. There are definitely places in this film where you can't help thinking that the director and the actors just weren't taking it, or themselves, seriously. Rest assured this is not to the movie's detriment. The humour only helps relieve the tension that might otherwise have turned the film in an unbearable mind job.
Kristanna Loken more than does the job as the new and improved Terminator, sent back to [destroy]not only Connor, but also men and women who will become his deputies. She gives a good impression of a machine with sole intent, but who can't quite help enjoying itself in the process.
The demolition scenes that result from the two Terminators battling are spectacular, and there is one hell of a hair-raising car chase through the city (I wouldn't go so far as to say it meets the standards of the car chase in Matrix Reloaded, but it is mind-blowing to watch).
Despite what local reviewers have said, I think Nick Stahl and Claire Danes were a good pair-up for this film. It doesn't detract at all from not having Edward Furlong reprising the role of John Connor.
Nick Stahl was perfect in his role. People have to remember that what we are being presented with is a young man who thinks (but isn't positive) that his destiny as leader in the war against the machines has been thwarted by the actions he, his mother and his Terminator protector took some years ago. This is a young man who is now uncertain of his future role, but still suffers nightmarish visions of what the world was supposed to become.
This is not yet the battle-hardened warrior that is depicted in the 'flash-forwards' of all three movies. This is just a young man who wants to stay anonymous, and untraceable.
Hence, he is hardly surprised when a Terminator appears abruptly one night, saying it is there to protect him. The surprises start coming with the Terminator's determination to also protect former once-off kissing companion Kate Brewster....
Someone criticised the lack of chemistry between Danes and Stahl. They were well off the mark with that criticism, because the film was not meant to focus on any serious romantic attachments. Stahl and Danes didn't need to 'click' like that right then. Should there be a fourth film (and I seriously hope there is after seeing T3), then that will be something that they might need to focus on then. ...