This film fits the "Crash" formula, although it's hardly a prizewinner - which is not to say it's awful. The movie takes itself way too seriously, and it doesn't add up to much, but, nevertheless, it's borderline entertaining and philosophically stimulating. The performances have a certain tanginess. Perhaps the stars felt freer than usual because, thanks to the film's episodic structure, none of them had to carry the entire movie.

Its layered, interconnected and thought provoking. Definitely allegorical and disturbingly real.

The first of four episodes focuses on a mousy, unhappy businessman (Forest Whitaker, convincingly pathetic) who overhears a tip on a horse race. He tries to change his life by taking a loan from mobsters and betting it all on a horse. Along the way, this man encounters a mob henchman (Brendan Fraser, strong and often silent), and we eventually discover that he can see the future. The second section of the film concerns what happens when the mob kingpin (a commanding Andy Garcia) assigns this henchman the task of keeping an eye on his out-of-control nephew (Emile Hirsch, amusingly amok).

In part four, an up-and-coming singer (Sarah Michelle Gellar, effectively distraught) abruptly learns that the kingpin has acquired her management contract. She wants nothing to do with him but discovers that his desire to control her career is the kind of offer you can't refuse.

The final segment concerns a doctor (a properly pensive Kevin Bacon) who loves a woman (Julie Delpy, appropriately angelic) who suddenly finds herself at death's door. It's up to the doctor to devise a plan to save her - a plan that somehow includes the singer from the previous segment. And to keep the story spinning round and round, it turns out that the singer has a connection to the businessman from the first segment.

If this sounds rather contrived, it is. And the various parts of the story don't robviously fit together.

The performances give the film a lift. And if the accomplished, eclectic cast was not enough to put The Air I Breathe in contention for a major award, it certainly could help to make you a winner the next time you play Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon.