" ... so let's completely rewrite it."

The simple problem with Peter Berg's "Friday Night Lights" is that it tries to be both a blockbuster football movie (in the spirit of Varsity Blues, The Program, Remember the Titans, etc.)and a gritty real-life documentary of high school football in the craziest football town on earth (in the spirit of the book). It doesn't work because blockbuster football movies are feel-good flicks with simplistic characters and ridiculous football games with predictable outcomes, whereas Friday Night Lights is a story about real people where things don't work out in the end.

The players on the 1988 Permian team had plenty of drama and conflict -- hey, it was enough to fill a best-selling book anyway. Berg and co-writer David Cohen are not interested however, in the subtle nuances of the books characters. Instead they take a snippet from the book and blow it up until it becomes that character's defining point. Don Billingsley's somewhat rocky relationship with his father and occasional fumble becomes all-out drunken child abuse and a total inability to carry the football which become focal points of the movie. Mike Winchell, the everyman QB who struggles under the pressure of the Friday Night Lights, becomes The Guy With the Insane Mom. Ivory Christian, a guy who has other dreams and who's not really sure if he wants to play football anymore, becomes The Guy Who Doesn't Talk.

None of this is either historically accurate or pleasant to watch. It's simply the creation of a pair of hacks who knew they didn't have the talent to film the real story.

The football scenes are surprisingly few and far between, but overall are a mixed bag. They are an order of magnitude better and more realistic than any previous film, but the games as a whole are predictable rubbish -- Blowout Victory, Blowout Loss, Blowout-turned-Comeback. In order to try and generate suspense, the Panthers are portrayed as a bunch of incompetents except for Boobie -- Winchell is an interception-throwing goof (He threw 5 INTs all season in real-life), Billingsley fumbles, etc. etc. And at the end, the movie gives up all pretense of trying to look real and switches back to "cartoon" mode where the Dallas Carter Cowboys, a team of "giants", knocks the Panthers around like rag dolls in scene after scene. In real life, Permian played them play-for-play and was only down 7-6 at half-time and was leading for most of the game. But really, the cartoonish footage was necessary to attempt to salvage some sense of suspense because the rest of the script utterly failed to.

The only plus to the movie was Derek Luke's phenonmenal performance as the star tailback Boobie Miles who only had one dream -- to play in the pros. Luke WAS that character. In the best scene in the movie, after realizing a devastating injury to his knee has effectively ended his football career, he quits the team, making a few last smart remarks on his way out the door. But he breaks down in the car with his uncle on the way home as he realizes his dreams and his future are gone forever. It was an absolutely gut-wrenching scene because it was a true, unflinching look at the reality of high school football for so many people. Unfortunately, this scene is an oasis in two hours of (totally fictional) Tim McGraw beating up his 17 year old son who can only mumble "Daddy stop."

Peter Berg should apologize to Don and Charlie Billingsley, apologize to Mike Winchell and his mother, apologize to the entire 1988 Permian team, apologize to Odessa, apologize to everyone who read the book, apologize to everyone who ever played football at any level, refund every penny he made from this movie, and then commit suicide. It wouldn't make things even, but it'd be a start.