Robin Williams plays a cutter, the person who sits down with your memory chip after you die and edits a 2-hour movie of your experiences so relatives can remember you.  He is somewhat controversial because, as a cutter, his specialty is taking really nasty, despicable people and making them look normal.  Cutters are not allowed to create footage, not allowed to mix footage from two individuals, and are not allowed to have the Zoe Implant themselves (which would record other peoples' memories).

He starts working on a lawyer for Eye Tech, the company that makes the Zoe Implant, and discovers that he sexually abused his daughter.  Anti-implant protest groups want to use this footage to bring down Eye Tech.  He is adamant about protecting his client and burying the incident -- but not entirely comfortable with it either.  A struggle ensues, during which the late lawyer's memory chip is destroyed.  Everybody thinks, fine, story over.

But Robin's character, Alan Hakman (great name for a cutter!) discovers he has an implant himself, unbeknowst to him (his parent died before telling him).  Suddenly the bad guys want to kill him, to get his implant and download his memories of the lawyer's abuse.  Mayhem ensues.

It was pretty good, an interesting premise, kinda a cross between Minority Report and all those memory movies like Spotless Mind, Total Recall, et al.  Robin Williams does well as a very taciturn, humorless employee (not unlike his performance in One Hour Photo).  The best part of the movie is the production design -- everything is kinda 21st century retro, with lots of wood and expensive fabrics.  Even the computer cases are carved from wood!  It makes an odd balance between future-tech and 19th century opulence -- very believable.  Great musical score, all done with orchestra (another retro touch).

Bad points: A few of the technical details aren't fully worked out -- the lawyer remembers being born, for instance (when did they have time to install the implant?)  The idea that having an implant (only 1 in 20 people do) makes you live your life differently, knowing somebody will be reviewing everything you did, is touched on but never really explored fully.  Most of my objections are minor like this though.  Overall: four or 4-1/2 stars.