It is, in a word, fabulous.  In more words:

I loved the man who played Kambei Shimada: Takashi Shimura.  This film was made in 1954 and here was an actor who looked like he could star in a movie of today.  He was wonderfully believable and natural -- even though I was reading subtitles the whole time.  I understand from reading Roger Ebert's review of "Seven Samurai" that he considers Akira Kurosawa's finest movie to have been "Ikiru" which also starred Shimura.  After the strength of his role in SS, I am eager to see "Ikiru".

Of course, Toshiro Mifune was terrific as Kikuchiyo, the deranged farmer-turned-samurai.  I learned a bit about him that I had been curious about.  I saw him in the role of Admiral Yamamoto in "Midway" (which I saw in Los Angeles in a theatre that went whole hog with the "Sensurround" sound system.  Man!  Those planes starting up at the beginning of the film!  It was like an earthquake!).  His voice was overdubbed by American Paul Frees, whose voice was instantly familiar to me as the voice of Boris Badenov from the Rocky and Bullwinkle show, and as one of the voice talents in Stan Freberg's troupe (he narrated "Stan Freberg Presents the United States of America, Vol. 1).  The trivia I learned was that even though Mifune painstakingly learned how to sound out English phonetically, his own voice was never heard in English-speaking roles, something he regretted to his dying day.

Mifune plays the character of Kikuchiyo with wonderful verve and physicality.  His mood swings are a feature of the film as Kambei Shimada marshals the farmers to defend their own village from the coming bandit attack.  After a very skilled samurai stages a selfless raid on the bandit camp to capture one of their few firearms (this is set in the 1600s) Kikuchiyo is bothered by the gushing hero worship shown by the band's "apprentice" samurai.  Kikuchiyo runs off and very cleverly captures a second firearm, but brings down the whole gang of bandits who manage to kill one of the band of seven.  Kikuchiyo's remorse and what he does to redeem himself is a highlight of the movie, I think.

"Seven Samurai" is the story of down-on-their-luck samurai warriors coming to the aid of a poor village of farmers just for the chance at regular meals.  The movie spotlights the suspicions some of the farmers have for samurai--specifically the fear that their daughters will be carried off. There's the budding romance between the apprentice samurai and the daughter of the farmer who most fears the lecherous reputation of the samurai.  He even cuts his daughter's hair to make her look like a boy before the samurai arrive; but she is discovered and the apprentice is moonstruck by her.

There isn't ANY of the fancy choreography that comes standard with modern day martial arts movies.  The fights are mel&eacute;es, for the most part, not individual mano-a-mano duels...but I think they are more authentic for that reason.

The slow buildup, the recruiting of the samurai to defend the village, the buildup of the defenses, the training of the villagers to stand and fight, the panicky rushing around of groups of villagers when the bandits finally do arrive, the tactics employed to whittle away at the bandits' numbers, the things the samurai do to pluck up the courage and morale of the villagers...all these factors are beautifully timed and executed.

It was amazing to me to feel so strongly about a movie that required me to read all of the dialog, but I have few objections to it now that I've seen such excellent movies as "Amelie", "Hero", and "Seven Samurai".  I suppose there's an added dimension of concentration that has to be invested in a subtitled movie, but that simply makes the experience more complete, I think.  I was more involved with the progress of the story and what the characters were saying and doing.

If you've never seen it, well it's about time!