This Bond film practically saved the series in my mind.  Unlike others who say this film and its star nearly killed it, I feel that George Lazenby's performance was a first rate effort, especially for his first time out,and no acting experience on top of that, that took alot of guts to do on his part, and George I salute you for it!  I loved how George made it known that he was the new guy when he said "This never happened to the other fella". I was in stitches when I heard that.  Diana Rigg was perfect in every way as Bond's one and only true love.  She had the sex appeal and finese, and it was good to see Bond meeting his match in a woman with "brains". This was the last Bond film of the 60's, and alot of people fail to realize that the series was a baby starting to grow, and sometimes growth is painful.  The series was experiencing growing pains when this film was made, and this growth was needed at that time. OHMSS forced the series to grow and face reality for a minute.  It felt good not being bombarded by gadgetry and unnecessary humor.  For once we saw that Bond was a cutting edge character that was capable of feeling love, and this adventure proved that he could be taken seriously. This was also the most psychadelic film of the 60's Bond era. It was about time we got to see that.  It felt good to get away from opening songs by famous singers too.  The instrumental opening sequence fits perfect, and displays that this is a different Bond film.  I like it so much I play it in my car when I'm running late for work. For anyone to say that this was a box office failure needs a hole in their head, the masses are the final critics,and as time has proven the film remains outstanding because we finally got to see a visual of one of Fleming's novels in pure form, no adaptations,or additions that digressed from Fleming's literary vision. I only wish George Lazenby would have hung in there.  The 70's would have been a coming of age for him as Connery's successor, and for the series as well.