Short Version of My Review:
MOVIE - 5 Stars
Blu Ray - 1 Star

I have seen this movie MANY, MANY times, and it is one of my favorites!  I grew up watching this movie; first during a TV broadcast, and then many times off of a VHS recording of the broadcast.  A few years ago I bought the DVD, but because I can't find it, I bought the blu ray version.

Because I have seen this movie so many times, I can remember almost every sound effect and every line of dialog.  Because I had watched this movie over and over on a 19" tv with the audio playing out of the tv's tiny speakers, I looked forward to watching this movie on my modern home theater setup with all of the great music in the soundtrack and great dialog of the script!

Despite a review I had read discussing the shortcomings of the provided soundtracks, I bought the disc...I guess I was just jonesing to watch blondie and tuco!  I am sad to say the review I read was dead-on and I reiterate their sentiments...the audio options are horrible!!!!  There is an English DTS HD track, English mono, Spanish 5.1, French 5.1, Portuguese 5.1, German 5.1, and the original Italian mono track.  So many tracks, none of them what I want!!!!!  Each of the English tracks substitutes these ridiculous generic gun and cannon fire sound effects for the original sound effects.  Every time they shoot, instead of hearing the authentic sound effects, you hear a cheesy 80's TV cop show gunshot sound effect.  It is so annoying!!!  How hard would it have been to get an old gun, get some bullets, shoot it, and record the sound?!?!?!?!  Imagine watching Top Gun, and whenever there was a scene with jets, they played car engine sounds!  Wouldn't that be ridiculous?  Well, it's almost as bad as that would be.  And the rest...well...they aren't in English!!!!  I found myself watching the movie with remote in hand, constantly switching from an English track to hear the dialog I know and love, and then switching to the Italian track to hear the original gunfire sound effects whenever there was shooting (which is quite often!).

Okay, okay...my grandmother is from Mexico so on the odd chance that she comes over and randomly wants to watch this movie, the Spanish track will come in handy.  But adding a French, Portuguese, German, and Italian track but not the original English track...C'MON!!!!!!!

I would have been very happy watching this movie on blu ray with the original English mono track converted to 5Ch or even 2Ch stereo by my receiver.  But instead I have this crappy disc with it's crappy options!

Unfortunately this movie isn't the only movie where the wrong sound effects are used.  One that stands out in my mind is the Italian Job, where when the guy rides up on a Ducati, they use the sound effect from a 4 cylinder bike.  The sound of a Ducati is unmistakable!  I would let it slide if they had used the sound from another V-twin bike, but a 4 cylinder?  Are they that clueless?  Oh yeah, the same thing happens in Transformers, the dude rides an Aprilia Mille (another v-twin) yet it sounds like a 4 cylinder bike.  I guess somewhere on a computer they have a "motorcycle" sound effect recorded and they use it for all motorcycles.  It must be the same computer where the "gun" sound effects they used to make this blu ray are stored!!!!  Maybe someday they will hire actual knowledgeable human beings to do sound effects for movies and not just some clueless monkeys!!!  Maybe they can expand their portfolios not to just include "gun" sounds, but maybe even ".44 magnum" and "9mm semiauto" and "m4" sounds!!!!  I can only hope, until that day you can be assured that there is someone somewhere shaking his head in disbelief or even pulling out his hair out of frustration because Hollywood didn't do their research.  Damn you, soundtrack guys!!!!!!