When you have titles like "Se7en" and "Fight Club" under your belt, you kind of go into the movie expecting a phenomenal (yet mildly flawed) movie. The movie didn't focus on the killings like I had expected. So if your expecting a slasher or thriller, look elsewhere. Instead, it opts to focus on how it consumes the individuals. Detectives Toschi and Armstrong are subjected to copious amounts of bad help from citizens which adds on to a really long and tedious case. I think the movie does too good of a job showcasing how tedious it really was because instead of feeling bad for the detectives, I just felt bad for myself because of how long it was taking. *Spoiler* The part where Armstrong is about to get out of the car and says he can't take being on call anymore, it was literally 30 mins. too late for me to really care. Armstrong is probably the least fleshed out of the characters. The movie implies how the case is straining Toschi's marriage, but it doesn't go into too much depth at all. You can just tell there is a growing distance between the two, yet you barely hear anything out of her mouth and there never really was one of those it scenes to really display the stress (the most was when he hangs up the phone from her hand). After watching this movie I know I couldn't be a cop because they covered almost every friggin aspect of it. They observe every crime scene extensively, everything you'd see on the report. Think of like the opening part of Law & Order where the detectives examine the scene for a few seconds, find the witness that makes the case in about 10 minutes, and arrest the bad guy at around the half hour mark. Well it's sort of like that cept they examine each scene for what seems like 20 mins. and then go back to headquarters and discuss it with the captain and each other for another 10, and then go to the next murder, rinse and repeat. I have no doubt this would be an excellent read, but for a movie, it's just too much detail to pay attention to all of it especially when you never feel like they are ever really that close to catching the guy *spoiler* (until they get the connection with the watch and the symbol)
So bravo for being realistic, but nay for not being exciting.

I think Jake Gyllenhaal's character is ultimately the most interesting. His fascination turns to uncontrolled obsession. His relationship with his girlfriend/wife, Avery, Toschi, and the case are really what makes this movie interesting. You could almost separate the movie into two acts, with the first going to Armstrong and Toschi and the second to Gyllenhaal and everything in his life. As the case slowly consumes him, you see how his marriage breaks down, his relationship with Toschi builds into a love/hate manner in that he wants to be done with the case but all the leads Gyllenhaal fines he can't help but pursue, like the case that got away. Eventually, he gets to close, and the killer begins harassing him via phone. Ultimately, the movie comes to an interesting conclusion with the whole "you may have gotten away with it, but someone knows" and I found it to be rather enjoyable.

I'd almost recommend skipping to the part where Gyllenhaal becomes thee predominant character in the movie, but then you wouldn't know what the killer is all about. I think the movie loses points with the almost grotesque amount of time devoted to detective work, at the same time not focusing enough on Armstrong and Toschi's relationship with each other and individual relationships with their families. If the director's cut (coming in January) adds some of that, my score would go up, even if it meant the movie had to go longer. However, if it adds more detective work, the movie would lose more points. That's not to say "the second act" doesn't involve any investigating, the movie still does plenty of that, but it just devotes a good chunk of time to developing Gyllenhaal's character. If you don't care about any of the characters, what's the point of watching any movie? And I think that's what ultimately saves it. It's interesting, done well, the acting is great, but too much detective work for me. If you enjoy that sort of stuff, you will get a lot more enjoyment out of the first half.