Having been born after the time of Fame and other break out movies of the time, I knew that this was something I had to experience much the same way as my mom did when she was younger.  What I hadn't expected was the terribly torn reviews between either hating it or loving it.

Still, I went with my gut and purchased the video to find meaning to both sides of the story.

First, the audition sequence was very long, much longer than necessary even.  While it was interesting and visually appealing, it got sort of boring and right when you thought that it was never going to end, the students get their calls of acceptance!

Beginning Freshman year with "Hot Lunch" sets the mood for the rest of the movie, energetic and in your face.  Students dancing and singing all over the place show us the naivety of the youth as they begin their journeys toward becoming performers.

The movie did have continuity issues and was inconsistant in it's presentation of each year.  It spends too much time on Freshman and Sophomore year and shortens Junior and Senior year to maybe 15 minutes more or less.  The fast pace of the movie, however is what gives it it's feel and it's ravor sharp edge.

The issues are real though I don't believe that ever single person should have suffered from them.  A previous reviewer described the movie as pornographic which it is not at all.  Bare chests do make several appearances through out the movie (mostly involving Irene Cara's barely noticable breasts), but there are no explicit sex scenes or even noises.  There are two implied scenes and you don't see anything but the girl beckoning that the guy follow, no more.

All around. this movie has an impact many movies fail to achieve.  It defines a subculture, a dream, and an era that will not soon be forgotten in pop culture.  If you are looking for a snappy dancey musical with an upbeat ending, pass this one up and I suggest you take a look at Grease or Rent.  If you want reality and hard hitting truths backed by an incredible soundtrack, then take a look at this.