Let me take a minute to sigh a few times and do a little coping with what I just saw.  This movie could be a TAD more real, possibly by adding some more tears, but other than that; two thirteen year olds rebelling against nearly everything: sounds and looked, and FELT very real to me.  I have a younger sister who went through almost exactly what these two girls experienced.  The drugs, sex, alcohol, you name it, they were doing it.  Some of the scenes in this movie almost felt voyeuristic.  And will leave many wondering if it was legal for these girls to do.  The two young ladies playing these roles are Evan Rachel Wood and Nicki Reed (who is also the co-writer.)  (BEWARE!  SPOILER!)  There is a scene where these two girls are both making out with one of the girl's next door neighbors, who's character in the movie is supposed to be at least 7 or 8 years older.  I checked imdb.com, and the actor who portrayed the neighbor is Kip Pardue, born in 1976.  Evan Rachel was born in '87, Reed in '88.  Both of these girls were 15 when this movie was shot and he was 25-26.  SHOCK AND AWE!  How the hell did Catherine Hardwicke (director) pull this little stunt off.  Very powerful scene, but will leave you in absolute wonder days after you see the movie.
Other shocking scenes are of self-mutilation.  Evan Rachel's character taking razor blades to her forearm.  One can only turn away, and just accept what is happening.  I know there are other movies out there that are way more gruesome, such as Irreversible, but this was like a "Kids" sequel, except way more dramatic.  A very touching deleted scene is on the DVD where Evan Rachel's character (Tracy) comes home to find Reed's character (Evie) and her guardian sitting in the living room with her mother.  She leaves to "use the restroom" but the cut part of the scene is when her brother (played by Brady Corbet) catches her in the hallway, and wraps his arms around his sister; letting her know that he loves her very much, and that he knows the fall she set her self up for.  Heartwrenching, because I have given the same hug to my sister when she was a VERY rebellious teenager.
  I must give credit for the way this movie was shot.  It was filmed on a shaky dv cam, with low lighting to give the movie a more dark feel.  Which is exactly what is accomplished here, giving the audience a dark feel, and have their emotions run with each scene.  I would give this little gem five stars, but it lost one for a bit of quickness to the movie.  I felt that they could have spent a little more time in the beginning of the movie with a little more distance between Evie and Tracy, before they started hanging out.  It's almost like Tracy was suddenly accepted into a group that wouldn't be caught dead with her.  So, it would feel more real, if some more real scenes were going on; and that would make the climax even more emotional.
  Over all, wonderful, and touching film.