Throughout the United States, Mexican seek not merely a better life (as many Americans would like to believe) but rather survival.  These immigrants are all faced with a simple yet difficult question:  How much should they assymilate, and how much of their own culture should they retain?

Flor (Paz Vega) is James L. Brooks' (director of As Good As it Gets) realistic portrayal of a Mexican woman, abandoned by her husband, seeking survival for herself and her daughter through emmigrating to the United States.  After six years of working two jobs in Los Angeles, Flor is forced to look for a single job to provide her with the money she needs and the time she needs to spend with her daughter.  She finds this job in the affluent Clasky home, as a housekeeper.  And this is where the cultures begin to clash in a very amusing, yet true to life manner.  And, it is here that Flor, and her young daughter, are faced with the question of identity.

Sub-stories add depth and credibility to Spanglish.  The collapsing marriage of four star chef/restaurant owner John and neurotic recently unemployed Deborah Clasky (Adam Sandler and Tea Leoni), and the alcoholim of Deborah's mother, Evelyn (Cloris Leachman) just skim the surface of the sub-plots in this film.  Deborah's constant stuggle for attention isolates her from her family, and her need for perfection drives her lonely, overweight daughter, Bernice, further away.  Bernice buckles at times under the pressure of unrealistic standards placed upon her by her mother, especially when Flor's seemingly perfect daugher, Cristina enters her life.  John, drained from his wife's persistant neediness, eventually turns to Flor for comfort.

Throughout the entire movie, Flor's actions, and choices to refrain from action, are a direct result of her placing the needs of her daughter ahead of her own.  Even as the relationship between them is undermined by manipulative Deborah Clasky, Flor continues to live her life for her daughter.

This movie is a must-see.  Actually, it is not only a must see, but also a must see again.