What's most remarkable about this movie is not the humor value or anything; it's how quotable it is.  For some reason this is the most easily quoted and most quoted movie as far as I can tell.  Even the most mild fan can quote several lines from this movie without having watched it a hundred times like some of us die-hards.  There are just so many funny lines to quote, not just one-liners but also conversations.  It's quite remarkable.  A real phenomenon.  I doubt there will ever be another movie with this characteristic.

I could go on that for another 15 minutes, but instead I'll convince you on why you shouldn't just rent this movie; you should BUY it, right now, even if you've never seen it.  It's quite funny.  There's just a lot of funny one-liners and even non-one liners that you can laugh at over and over and almost more importantly laugh over and over with your friends just TALKING about them!  You can seriously sit there and do back-to-back quotes with one another and keep laughing.  There's nothing like it.  And what's even better is if you're doing it in a group or crowd of people someone overhearing it is bound to know what you're talking about!  The events in the movie are funny too, such as when Judge Smails hurls his golf club.

The characters are also all very funny.  You even like Judge Smails, the "villain" of the movie, who is played brilliantly by the late Ted Knight.  He makes a very good villain.  I thought Bill Murray was overrated in this movie, not to mention the gopher, but after watching him for a while he did some pretty funny stuff, such as staring at the old ladies golfing and talking to himself about how he's gonna kill the gopher.  My favorite is Rodney Dangerfield's character.  Rodney's always great and always steals the show because, well, he's Rodney!  He delivers plenty of his famous one-liner jokes, some of which even people with the "high brow" sense of humor can laugh at.

The plot is easy enough to follow and isn't exactly "complex".  Hey, it's a comedy.  But in any case it suits the movie and I can't comlain.  It may get a little slow in the middle around the yacht club scene and all but it picks right up soon afterwards and you may not even find that part slower at all.  But the movie definitely keeps you interested, even when Rodney disappears for a while.

All in all, a great movie.  Even if you're not a particular fan of any of the actors here you may like them or just not dislike them as much and the movie will keep your attention and keep you laughing.  It's no wonder this movie is a classic.

So get...no, BUY it NOW!!!