I won't even bother reviewing the film itself: it's a modern classic & everyone who is reading this has probably seen it a few dozen times.  What I will review are the extras to this 20th anniversary 2-disc special edition.

You'd think after twenty years the producers would have a boat-load of extras to offer.  If not that then a large assortment of cast & crew members onhand to create an interesting retrospective documentary.

What we get instead is a 20 minute reflection by a few of the cast members (the now grown up actors who portrayed Ralphie, Schwartz, Flick, & Scott Farkus, as well as director Bob "Porky's" Clark) called Another Christmas Story that seemed to have been thrown together in one afternoon.  Where's Melinda Dillon?  Where's Darren McGavin?  And where's the kid who played Randy (who, might I add, looks NOTHING like he did in 1983.  I saw a photo of him somewhere & he looks disheveled & totally washed up).  This "reflection" just features the five guys rattling off a few ordinary memories of their experience (They didn't think it was going to be a huge success [who ever does?]; The kids played pranks while they stayed in a hotel; etc.  Wow.  The insights are killing me).  It's not really informative.  Nor is it fun to watch.

Although I want to point out that Scottie Schwartz- porn star extraordinaire- looks creepily the same as he did in 1983.  He's just pudgier & has a goatee.  And Zack "Scott Farkus" Ward (who you'll recognize from TV's recent Titus) is incredibly obnoxious.  He's constantly hamming it up, which seems to be encouraged by the not-at-all-funny Pop-Up Video style production features.  Yeech.

The PG-commentary (by actor Peter Billingsley & director/writer Bob Clark) fares a little better.  Not the best commentary ever recorded, but it gives the film a fresh viewing (I must have seen the film like, 700 times).

The rest of this special edition's features go way downhill:  There's the Triple Dog Dare trivia game (which features the above mentioned interview participants reading the questions... clearly taped right after giving the interview); Radio readings by author Jean Sheppard, which are interesting, but a tad on the long [read: tedious] side; a stupid decoder game (does anyone really needs this?); etc.  It's your typical DVD special edition filler [...].

The most annoying extra (besides Zack Ward's testimonials) is the featurette on the company that makes the leg lamps.  The "correspondent" (I forget his name) gives his worst Daily Show knock-off in what is perhaps the most embarrassing and unfunny segment my eyeballs have witnessed.  This has to be seen to be believed.  Though you'll want your 3 minutes back immediately after viewing it.

I still recommend getting this DVD over the other standard version.  The packaging is nice.  The film is naturally classic.  The commentary is vaguely interesting.  But the extras are weak... really weak... and had so much potential.