This was my first time to view any Max Lucado Hermie and Friends DVD's.  I was very impressed not only with the quality and entertainment value, but how they zeroed in on children's attitudes and challenges in different areas of behavior.
In Milo the Mantis Who Wouldn't Pray, Milo wouldn't pray even in the face of disaster.  His problem was he didn't know how to pray.  He tried many different ways to get God's attention when in reality he was just taking of his problems on his own rather than turn to God.
This was a timely DVD as my granddaughter, like many young children, wouldn't' pray because she said she didn't know how to.  It encouraged her that there was no right or wrong way to pray and that God is always listening.  You can talk to God anytime and anywhere.  It also taught that God doesn't always answer prayers in our time or our way but He does answer them.
Buzby and the Grumble Bees, dealt with children's rude and demanding behavior and resistance to follow rules.  Bubzy is corralled into keeping his ill-mannered niece and nephew.  Through Buzby and all his friends working together, the children learn what it would be like if there were no rules and everyone did as the pleased. From messy homes, grown-ups who sit and gripe to poor table manners, they see how difficult and disgusting life would be.  The little bees are quick to learn that it's no fun and rules do have a purpose.
In Hailey & Bailey's Silly Fight, the story addressed a big problem, siblings fighting!  Hailey and Bailey decide to do something thoughtful to help a needy family.  Instead they end up fighting about each of them wanting to do it their way.  Soon everyone is fighting and their goal is forgotten.  It is a powerful lesson in that when we fight no one wins.  Realizing their mistake they begin to work together and the family is helped.  The girls learn that nothing is worth fighting over.
I cannot stress how much I liked these DVD's.  All my grandchildren thoroughly enjoyed them and were able to grasp the lessons being taught.  I want to purchase more Hermie and friends DVD's after viewing these.
Disclosure of Material Connection: I received this book free from the publisher through the BookSneeze.com &lt;http://BookSneeze.com> book review bloggers program. I was not required to write a positive review. The opinions I have expressed are my own. I am disclosing this in accordance with the Federal Trade Commission's 16 CFR, Part 255