There are many different reasons for watching a movie, and I suppose I have about as many of them as anyone: sometimes I'll watch a slapstick comedy just for the chuckles, or a grand historical epic so I can be transported to a world that's simultaneously fantastic and familiar, or a murder mystery for the fun of solving a puzzle.  But whenever I saw previews or reviews for K-Pax I couldn't for the life of me figure why I'd want to watch this movie.  As far as I could tell I knew what the movie was: a character study involving someone who may or may not be an alien, being treated in a mental institution by someone who may or may not believe he's an alien.  The way I figured it, he either is or he isn't. If he is, it's a fish-out-of-water story with a sci-fi slant.  If he isn't, it's a one-flew-over-the-cuckoo's-nest story with a little ambiguity thrown in but resolved in the end.  Neither of these were movies that I'd seek out, but I found myself again and again drawn to watching K-Pax, waiting for the mood to strike me.  To be sure, I love Jeff Bridges and Kevin Spacey in just about anything they've done, and I had no reason to believe I wouldn't be watching a well-made, well-acted movie, just perhaps one not quite to my taste.
So imagine my surprise when I found myself stunned by not only the movie's emotional power, but by it's visual beauty.  I suppose it's a testament to the limited imaginations of the people who decide how to craft a trailer or a blurb in order to sell a movie, but K-Pax it seems to me has been done a terrible disservice, because it's promotionals all seem to focus on the mystery of "is he or isn't he?", which in my opinion misses the entire thrust of the movie.
Amazingly, the director and his cinematographer have deliberately and lovingly crafted a dreamlike fantasy that exists squarely and believably within the everyday world of overworked urban professionals and weary suburban commuters. From K-Pax's opening scene, which follows a feather as it drifts down a column of light into the sun-drenched vastness of Union Station, to the heartbreaking finale, the movie gently but inexorably reveals to us the lives of the two protagonists, and eventually the intertwining of those lives, all the while painting around them a world of ineffable beauty, a world defined by light.
I feel I can without reservation place K-Pax squarely within the tradition of those films to which I can go when my reason for watching is to revel in their pure visual beauty, films like Ridley Scott's "The Duellists" and "Bladerunner", or Stanley Kubrick's "A Clockwork Orange" and "Barry Lyndon".  It is however Krzysztof Kie'lowski's "Blue"  that most often occurs to me when I watch K-Pax, and it's in the company of these great films that I believe K-Pax belongs.