Okay, you've heard tons of reviews about how awesome the movie is.  Its like a Disneyland ride, you see it the first time and its exciting- but you want to go back to see it again, because you know you missed some stuff.  My husband and I have already been back to see the movie a second time- and yes, we will be going to see it again the theaters.  But if you are into the comics, then you wanna know how close this is to the comic book. And let me tell you, being that this is a Marvel produced movie (instead of studio produced) they took care of their baby.  Some time ago they updated the Iron Man comic from the 60's version, of Iron Man being in Vietnam, to the Middle East.  The movie further adapts it to fit the current goings on in the world.  This detail doesn't take away from the story at all.  In fact, the movie is so close to the comic book, that its obvious the care Marvel took in keeping true to Iron Man and Tony Stark.  The only problem we found was in the Jarvis representation, but it didn't take away from the story either.  There was still the playful interaction some readers come to love between Tony and Jarvis.  The 10 rings is addressed, but not fully fleshed out.  But that's what Iron Man 2 is for; seeing as this was Iron Man, and Tony Stark's introduction to the movie fan.  Favreau did an excellent job weaving this story, and making it understandable, even if you aren't into the comics- without making the comic book read feel as if the story is being dumbed down.  Its not, not at all!  He is a brilliant director, and did a fantastic job.  Robert Downey Jr is excellent as Iron Man/Tony Stark- he really IS Tony Stark and its so excellent, he's funny, and charming.. which makes it obvious exactly why Tony Stark is the ladies man he is; he was born to play this role, and Terrence Howard will be FANTASTIC as War Machine in the next film!  I hope to see Happy and Pepper together in the next film, and I hope that Tony's alcoholism plays a bigger part in the next film, as its been something he struggled with during the comics.  But this is all stuff you wouldn't expect to be overwhelmed with in the first movie, but want to see in the second film.  There is not a single boring moment.  The movie is fast paced, and takes you on an excellent ride.  The after credit scene had me howling, and will probably have every Marvel fan howling as well- so make sure you stick around for it.