Years ago, when rumors surfaced that Andrew Lloyd Webber was working on a sequel to The Phantom of the Opera, I was both excited and appalled:  Excited because I'm a huge fan of the original show and would love to see and hear more material on the subject - and appalled because I couldn't imagine the possibility of a well-conceived idea for a sequel.  To move forward with a sequel - at least in my mind - there has to be more to the original story, and it has to be an intriguing story.  A good story.

Whether you believe the story of Love Never Dies is a good one or not, I think it's at least. . . interesting.  The Phantom of the Opera was certainly interesting.  It's basically a "beauty and the beast" type of story told using spectacular scenery and lush, melodramatic music.  Andrew Lloyd Webber struck gold in more ways than one with that show.  Love Never Dies has the exact same formula except that there's a twist in the story, albeit a far-fetched one.  Just because some may perceive a story line to be implausible doesn't mean it's a bad idea.  I mean how likely is it that a horribly disfigured man came to be such a genius, such a musician, such an architect, such a magician?  Is it feasible that he'd live years and years across an underground lake underneath the Paris Opera House and haunt the place without ever being caught?  If you loved the original story, then I'm assuming you buy in to these ideas.  Why not?  After all, it's fiction.  Right?

The continuing story that the Phantom escaped from Paris and discovers the fortune and anonymity he enjoys at Coney Island is completely plausible to me.  Same goes for the reason that lures Christine to New York 10 years later.  What has happened with Christine and Raoul's relationship in the interim isn't all that far-fetched either.  The twist in the story involving the only new primary character of Gustave is a bit hard to swallow but definitely not impossible.  If you understand that conception took place just before the Phantom left Paris (and not sometime during the original story, which I find ludicrous that some reviews seem to think that that's when it occurred), then you have to know that the story line is possible.  I don't understand how some people can watch and listen to "Beneath a Moonless Sky" and not understand this.  I totally understand why a person might be skeptical about the likelihood of the circumstances, but again it's fiction.  Right?

For the very reason that many people say the show doesn't work or for which the story is so often criticized, I believe the show wouldn't work without it.  The above-mentioned twist is what makes the story interesting.  I think it's the hook that makes the viewer want to see how the story is going to play out.  Add in the battle of the Phantom and Raoul vying to win Christine one last time, and the story becomes perhaps even more intriguing than the original story.  I'll admit I had trouble buying the whole story, but I found myself genuinely interested in seeing it all unfold, even if parts are completely predictable.  Realizing that the new story is pure fantasy, just like the original story, I enjoyed it a lot.

I don't blame Andrew Lloyd Webber one bit for attempting what he's done here.  I absolutely don't believe that he has done what others have suggested - that he simply saw an opportunity to make some cash.  He attempted to strike gold again but not necessarily for fortune.  Rather, to be inspired to write new music for a subject that's near and dear to him.  Sure, he may have borrowed a melody or two he had previously written for something else to incorporate into the new score, but there is plenty of really terrific original stuff here.  Combine all of it with just the right amount of familiar tunes from The Phantom of the Opera, and the score to Love Never Dies is one of Webber's best ever.

The production values are second to none.  From the actors on stage and the musicians in the orchestra pit to the crew handling the sets, costumes and lighting, all are tremendous.  The picture and sound quality on the Blu-Ray are stellar.  I think Love Never Dies is a great show, and the disk is worth every penny to have as part of my collection.  The only reason I didn't give it a 5-star rating is because the show was filmed and put together on disk more like a movie than a live stage show.  I would have preferred to hear all of the audience reactions and to see all of the scene transitions.  You do hear some audience reactions, maybe only three or four times throughout the entire show.  When I see a show in person, I enjoy witnessing and imagining all of the technical and creative details that must go into changing from one scene to another and making everything flow seamlessly.  You get very little taste of that on the filmed version of this show.  It's obvious in many places that the producers cut out audience applause and footage during transitions from scene to scene.  Still, it's a beautifully shot and edited show.  The only reason I could fathom for the decision to produce the DVD in this way is that it made me, at least, want to see the show live (if it ever comes to the U.S.) more than I might have wanted to see it had the DVD given me more of a feeling of actually seeing it live.  If the show ever does tour the U.S. or perhaps go to Broadway, I will likely make every effort to see it.