At 20 million dollars, PASSCHENDAELE was the most expensive Canadian movie ever produced. And I think it's fair to say that every dollar of that budget shows on the screen. From the ultra-realistic battle scenes at Ypres and Passchendaele, to the portrayal of Calgary as a small prairie town at the turn of the 20th century, it is faithful to the visuals of what it must have been like to live at that time.
PASSCHENDAELE is a throwback to the kind of war movies made by John Wayne, albeit with a hero in the throes of neurasthenia (PTSD) for having needlessly killed a young German soldier in a particularly cruel fashion. It wavers between glorifying the soldiers who fight in war, while criticizing war itself, especially the old men who stay safe at the home front and shame young men into joining the army.

This movie is amazing in that it is a war epic quite literally made by one man, Paul Gross.  Gross, wrote, solicited funding, produced, directed, starred, and even wrote the song "After the War" for this movie.  I'm a fan of war movies, and it was this fact that led me to first watch PASSCHENDAELE.  I must say, that for a one-man war film, it is astounding.  I really enjoyed it.  Other reviewers have commented on anachronisms in the speech of the characters and a "plastic love story", and, to some extent, these are valid criticisms.  But I ask them, could they single-handedly make a better movie?

The love story is between the character played by Paul Gross, Sgt. Michael Dunne, and his nurse, Sarah Mann, played by the wonderful Caroline Dhavernas.  The cast is rounded out by wonderful Canadian character actors, many of whom will be recognizable to fans of The Murdoch Mysteries, dueSOUTH, Slings & Arrows, and others.

Michael and Sarah have a strangely unrequited love; hers being dependent on him keeping her brother safe in the war. I wanted the characters to have more of a love story while the movie spent time on the home front in Canada. In my opinion, it would have strengthened the power of the ending.

Yet, this is a very powerful piece.  I would caution families against showing it to young children, as the battle violence is quite realistic.  Sexual scenes are very tame and brief, with no skin showing and more left to the viewers' imagination than to the screen.  Quite wisely too, I think.  PASSCHENDAELE was given an "R" rating -- I believe because of the war violence.  I think it would be ok to show to teens with parental guidance, especially if they are studying WWI in school.  Like its spiritual predecessor, ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT, the violence is not gratuitous: it shows the utter brutality and sheer waste that war can be.  Nevertheless, the visuals are brutal and disturbing.  Something that parents would want to talk to their kids about.

PASSCHENDAELE highlights the tremendous contribution Canada made to WWI.  The sheer numbers of men killed were staggering. It glorifies the bravery of the individual soldier and of the platoons, while showing the futility of the war.  It has a place in the war movie collection of any fan of the genre.<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0046YK4KW">Passchendaele</a>