'Amadeus' won 8 oscars in 1984 when the movie came out and till this day it hasn't aged a bit. The new director's cut adds a few scenes that clarify some parts of the story. It is a long but there are no parts I felt could have been left out.

Even though the movie is about Mozart the title is his middle name 'Amadeus'. And for that there is a reason. This movie is not really about Mozart but about the Italian court-composer Salieri. A man who was a rival of Mozart and envied his talent.

Salieri is a man fighting with God. God helps him first with the death of his father so he can learn music. He goes to Vienna and meets Mozart but is astounded to see that he is just a vulgar little man.

Saliere is insulted by Mozart all the time in love but also in music. There is a scene where Mozart meets the emperor and the emperor plays a little march written by Salieri. Mozart replays it and starts to freshen it up, mocking the old piece. Salieri loves and loaths Mozart at the same time, asking God why much talent is in such a vulgar little man while he has so little, being completely godfearing. The title of the movie also

refers to that since it means 'beloved of god'.

The notion of sex (Mozart has an affair with the woman Salieri loves) becomes  more clear in the directors cut, something that was missing from the old  version. Also the very strained relationship with Salieri and Mozart's wife. Another cut scene was when he is teaching but is interrupted by digs but walks out and grabs a bottle of champagne. He drinks the bottle  on the street before coming home to see that his father returned.

The audio option with remarks by Forman and author Peter Schaffer is very interesting. About  casting, the trouble with location and shooting scenes in then communist Czechoslovakia. Also things about the real life of Mozart

'Amadeus' is not a biopic! It's a succesful play based on sources and letters. Some tings have changed for the play and the movie so don't see it as the actual life of Mozart.

F Murray Abraham is brilliant as Salieri, and most of all as the old Salieri talking to a priest to tell of his plans and his life fighting Mozart.

Outstanding also are the costumes and of course the brilliant music of one of the greatst composers of all time. Even if you don't like classical music however this movie will entertain you highly as a psychological drama.