No spoiler here only praise
Pixar does movies in a special way.  No matter what visually technical movie they want to make they hold the animators at bay until the story is just right.  It is why we followed a fish on a journey to find his son, felt for a robot as it discovered love, and had our hearts strung by a cowboy toy who feels tossed aside like yesterday's news.  I have no idea why I ever doubted that Brave would work as well as past Pixar hits, but I admit I expected it to be nothing more than a money grab movie.  One might come to the thought that this movie was only so Disney could have a red headed princess from Scotland to market to little girls.  I walked into the movie thinking that very thing and was knocked out by how much I enjoyed it.  Regardless of the whether or not this movie was green lighted to fit a toy market, the Pixar touch gave it such strength both visually and emotionally I tossed away my prejudious I had on such thoughts.

Although there is humor of easy steriotypes in the movie that makes me feel that Disney had a finger or two in the pie the pace of the movie screamed Pixar.  There never seemed to be a conflict in the movie that was thrown in to only shock and grab your attention.  Every scene was purposeful, and seemlessly flowed into the next.  The artwork was beautiful, and I was pulling for the characters through the movie.  The relationships between the mother and daughter was realistic, yet also shows young girls how to be independent yet respectful.  Too often movies and shows have children who start off snotty rebels, and by the end are still snotty heroes.  It's nice to see a movie where they still show a girl who is independent, yet any snotty actions show real consequence.  By the end you can see the real developement of the hero, and want to root for her.  As a parent I loved how the story was enjoyed by the whole family and my girls left the theatre with a real role model to pretend to be.  The music was beautiful, and celic style made up for any overtly commercial sounding pop theme.  It's not going to be Toy Story, but I felt this movie was well worth the ticket price, and will be added movie to the collection.