This *widescreen* version is a scrumptious edition which corrects some editing flaws apparent in the cropped/fullscreen DVD one. Violet Beauregarde at one point does indeed have her finger up her nose during the boat journey down the chocolate river tunnel.
Despite the dated styles in acting, clothes, and music, this musical's appeal has stood up very well (but, hey, look at the 1939 Wizard of Oz for *dated*!).
After a recent reading of Charlie and The Chocolate Factory, David Seltzer's rework of Dahl's source comes across as not so much an adaptation as an alternate version of the same story. It's tighter and has better dramatic flow than the book.
The musical numbers by Bricusse, Newly and Scharf are engaging, not too frequent or cloying, and don't stall the plot. Not Arlen and Harberg, perhaps, but somewhat of a cut above the predominantly wretched pop music of the early 1970s.
In an unacknowledged but probably necessary dramatic hiccup, Grandpa Joe sings the important song "I've got a Golden Ticket", which by rights should be rendered by Charlie. But as Peter Ostrum admittedly could not hold a tune (a serious casting flaw), Jack Albertson rises to the occasion and rasps it out just fine.
I thinks it's very funny that "Wonka" was originally pitched to Quaker Oats by the movie's producers as a candy-bar-promotion gimmick to be shot on a shoestring budget. The irony is that the movie is so good but that the currently Nestle-produced Wonka-brand candy is so bad. But the movie rises above its base commercial roots and stands nicely on its own.
Buy it & see it, while you wait for the remake...
HOWEVER....
It is most unfortunate that the only girl role models are such horrid brats!
With the book, my 4 year old daughter kept asking about and referring back to Veruca Salt and Violet Beauregarde. But can one say anything positive about those ill-fated characters? At this critical time in her development, when she's looking to women and girls (real and in literature) as role models, the only girls in sight are punished and humiliated for their aggressiveness.
I don't begrudge Charlie and his spiritual journey with Grandpa Joe, or his final reward. But there's little in the book or movie of redeeming value for young girls.
The underlying message of the movie and the book is that girls have no part in larger adventures and rewards, that men and boys and male Oompa Loompas run the show. Mothers are either shrill, hysterical harpies or passive, feckless shadows.