Sanchin Kata Traditional Training for Karate Power by Kris Wilder could have been called Traditional Training for Martial Power.
There is a great deal of instruction on the principles of structure. Mr. Wilder says that "form must follow function and the function must be clear." He does a great job of doing just that. Starting at the feet and working up the body to the kua, arms, back, spine and head;he clearly shows correct and incorrect position. I had a smile when he continued to correct the overly bend back leg of the student, as my own taiji teacher was working on that with me this week. Good alignment is key to any form.

The filming of this DVD is clear, the studio set clean and easy to see the full body of the players. The outside venue where the form is demonstrated is quite beautiful and also shows the form being played on rocky ground, not just a flat dojo floor.

I like the way the instructor used analogies to explain his thoughts: The Goldie Locks rule, not too much, not too little, just right. Not too much blocking, not too little power, just right in every sequence.
He also talks about bringing rocks back from the moon. Some of the rocks brought back from the moon expeditions were put on immediate display so that people could wonder at them and learn about them. However some of the rocks were put away for a later date, when scientists are ready to reveal more of the secrets. Just like the katas, you are never ready to learn everything about them at first glance. (as in all other forms of martial arts). He also speaks somewhat about the history, in general of Sanchin Kata. He tells how it was used to protect the family and how, in order to be effective, not every secret was taught to every student. Only the worthy and trustworthy were shown, as it truly was a matter of life and death.

This DVD was excellent for anyone looking to begin Karate training. Please note, however, there is no instruction in the particular form being show. The form is demonstrated and the structure of the stance is gone over in great detail. This makes the DVD most valuable.

The only thing I would have liked to have explained is the heavy breathing that was done during the form. This is the exact opposite of our taiji forms, where the breath is silent, even to the player. I'm just curious. Another minor point is that "Crescent Step " in not mentioned in the DVD but it is mentioned on the jacket. Is this a moving step, as shown in the form demo or just the name of the stance?

I would highly recommend this dvd to people looking to begin martial arts training. It shows the meat and potato of the form and not just the sizzle on the platter.