!!!WARNING: SPOILERS!!!

Lately, I've grown tired of going to the theaters and shelling out 8 bucks a person to see a film that more than likely will end up in a video store a few months later that I can then watch on my big screen in the comfort of my own home. But Max Payne was different. I've played through the first game more than once, watched all the trailers, and had to see it on opening night. Needless to say, I was really surprised. The movie was well-paced, dark and gritty, and one of the best movies I've seen in a long while. I've watched it again just recently on the Special Edition and enjoyed it even more.

I was on the fence for awhile on whether to give this a 4- or 5-star rating, and finally decided to settle with 4 for a couple of reasons:
1. I applaud the movie in taking the direction that it did, knowing that it would not follow the game exactly, but so much had changed that I had to sit back and wonder why. Couldn't they have at leat kept some of the more supporting characters, such as the Mafia? The relationship between Max, the Mafia, and the Russian Mob is integral to the plot and partially the reason for the game's sequel.
2. BB listed as the main villain. This one's a minor afterthought, although I do like how Beau Bridges has the name BB in it (did anybody other than me catch this?). At first I wasn't sure he fit the part, but as the movie progressed, and events unfolded, he started to fit in nicely. However, he always felt like a secondary villain in the movie; and technically he is, considering that Nicole Horn is pulling the strings. So why on earth would they make him the last person Max Payne had to contend with? Aside from playing the game and seeing the graphic novel feature included with the Special Edition, you would have known Nicole was corrupt but never know whether she pulled the strings on Michelle's murder or not. And the only thing revealed in the scene after the credits is that her company's profits sky-rocketed. So what? Are they going to stop her from making a buck, do they have evidence linking her to the murders, anything? No, just that her profits are up. I really think they could have wrapped up the movie by having her die at the end, like in the game, but for whatever reason chose to keep her alive.

In any case, the positives far outweighted the negatives, the action was top-notch (never overdone), and the atmosphere was perfect. My only question is that when, and if, a sequel comes out will the sequel be based on the game's sequel (in which Nicole is already dead), or follow a completely different storyline, one in which Nicole is still alive?

One possible suggestion is that they are planning a trilogy of some sort. The first sequel would perhaps be the second part of the first game (revealing the Mafia, the Mob, and Nicole's involvement and finally her death), and the second sequel would continue the story of the second game.