Ah, while I was sitting here, listening to "Strange and Beautiful" by Aqualung, I got to thinking, "gosh, this reminds me of Wicker Park.  When the hell, is that coming out?!"  So, here I sit to find it comes out on Dec. 28th.  ROCK ON!  I've seen this movie 3 times.  How sad.  I never see a movie in a theater 3 times!  Here's the thing.  Last August was near the end of a great summer.  I met someone i completely feel for.  We had some amazing friends and spent every day after work together.  Then I come to find out, my love was falling in love with me and got scared so then bailed out.  Its amazing how long it takes to find love and then loose it so quickly.  Thats when I saw this movie for the first time and I realized something.  My life, as well as most other people can identify with someone in this movie to some certain degree.  It's all about lost love.  From the bright dream-like flashbacks of Mathew's (Josh Hartnett) past with former flame Lisa (Diane Kruger) to the almost dark and ominous feel of the present, it brings you into his world.  The one character that blew me away with her depth was "Lisa", the nurse that Mathew meets and becomes obsessed with him.  You see, she has the most complex character.  You feel every emotion towards this character.  Curiosity, humility, total hatred, sadness, and pity.  Not nessesarily in that order. There is so much depth and questioning in this movie, you do have to pay attention. If you do get it, which shouldnt be that hard, for anyone with depth, you'll find that this movie is more than a cat-and-mouse chase, it's about the trials of love and lust.  One important line is "Love will make you do crazy things".  Well, this is true to an extent.  I think we all can say we "stalked" someone to a small degree.  You know, to maybe find out their name or something.  Now, this is extreme stuff, but it'd be a boring movie if they didnt reach into some depth.  I dont want to give it away, but the ending is the BEST ending ever.  I can't say why, but it's the kind of ending people truly wish for.  It's not a hollywood happy ending by any means, but truly a tearjerking ending that plays in slow motion to Coldplay's "The Scientist" (which until I saw that will make me teary-eyed everytime I hear it).  So, that was a long story, but this movie is amazing.  Everyone I know that has seen it has loved it.  It's not a chick-flick but it has depth along the lines of American Beauty.  A must for anyone who has ever loved and lost.