Great setting throughout, beautiful woodland, or so it seems, apparently it was just a thicket, as explained on the extras on the dvd, which is kind of sad really, making it seem as though nowhere in the UK can you find a really secluded woodland that is actually far away from a road! Anyhow, to get to the movie's story, it was a shame they deleted the scene showing the woman driving her car with her daughter present also, and the man turning up in the middle of the road, making her stop the car, as it is it makes it seem as though she must have gone to bed and woken up in a box in the woods. It's only when watching the documentary on the dvd that one realises what actually happened.

I would have preferred it if the story had been centred around the first woman, rather than the character of Hope, I found her intensely irritating in the scenes in the restaurant with her 'date' where she was acting in a cringe-making coquettish manner, and even worse back in her home with her tell-all mentality giggling with her girlfriend who had babysat her kid. Her character started off by being such an irritating, silly woman, that it was hard to feel any sympathy for her character or to care much about what happened to her. As the movie progressed though, I did warm to her a little more, but not much, her acting seemed rather contrived and not exactly believable, but apart from that, I very much enjoyed the movie, I thought the hiding of a certain object inside people's bodies (which they have to dig out to enable escape) was similar to in the "Saw" movie, but this film was way, way better than "Saw" in my opinion, far more entertaining, and unlike "Saw", this was very visually beautiful to look at, owing to the lovely woodland setting.

According to the interview on the extras, they made the movie for somewhere between eight and ten thousand pounds. Incredibly low budget and therefore all the more praise necessary to the cast and crew and makers for achieving such a good piece of work but I guess having such a beautiful setting helped a lot here!

I was absorbed all through, even allowing for Hope's annoying behaviour in the restaurant. The movie had such great atmosphere, and I loved the touch of showing the delightful little robin singing on his branch!

Great movie. Well done to all concerned!

Oh, and I loved the ending. She didn't see that one coming! Way cool.