I saw this movie in the theatre when it first came out and loved it.  I just watched it again for the first time.  Seen through today's eyes, I expected to to feel somewhat cynical about it.  No such thing.  The film moved me just as much as it did then.  It seems to capture the religious experience of metanoia better than anything I have seen.  There are several moments of conversion, when characters hearts seem to open before our eyes.  That is no small achievment, and is due in no small part to the astonishing performance of Graham Faulkner.  He captures the "holy fool" aspect of Francis brilliantly.  There is no quality more difficult to portray convincingly than holiness, but he does so, beautifully.  How this fine actor did not have a major career is beyond me.  He ended-up working in a bank!  Astonishing, and bitterly ironic, given the message of the film.

The only aspect of the movie that no longer works for me are the songs by Donovan.  They are treacly in the extreme, and often fill the film with phony sentiment.  They are not needed, as the lush visuals are more than enough sensory information.  Silence would have been so much more powerful.

Judy Bowker was a mistaken bit of casting as Clare.  She is too familiar from other films of the time, and far too contemporary seeming. However, she is not used very much, so it doesn't matter.

The movie ends with a scene filmed in a recreation of the original St. Peter's basilica, a stunning set. The recreation of the period costumes and props in this scene make one realize how much Rome still remained classical at this time. It's a rare glimpse into a forgotten era. Alec Guiness plays the Pope, in a powerful cameo.

It seems to me that Zeffirelli is so good at religious subjects because he is a man of faith himself.  He understands the character of Francis because he is in his bones.

I spent some time in Assisi in 1976, and found it to be a very spiritual place.  The Carceri Hermitage in the hills above the town is still redolent of the Franciscan ethos.  I felt so drawn to the religious life there.  I've never been entirely convinced that shouldn't have been my path.  It may well be that Zeffirelli's film planted that seed.