Written by Brad Anderson & Stephen Gevedon; Directed by Brad Anderson (ASIN: B00005UQ9F)

The best rule for a horror story is "Don't show the monster." Alfred Hitchcock knew it. Robert Wise (The Haunting, 1963) knew it. Director Brad Anderson has mastered it. Much like the original version of The Haunting, Session 9 also takes advantage of another great rule in horror: "Atmosphere, atmosphere, atmosphere." The camera drifts around corners and into the harsh shadows of Danvers State Mental Hospital, a real hospital and portrayed in its genuinely rundown condition.

Gordon Fleming, played eerily spot-on by Scottish actor Peter Mullan, leads the team of Hazmat Elimination Co. into the vacant corpse of a once prominent mental institution famous for its invention of the pre-frontal lobotomy. Their job is filthy, dangerous and stressful--to strip all the carcinogenic asbestos insulation from the building before its imminent refurbishing one week later. David Caruso, Stephen Gevedon, Josh Lucas, and Brendan Sexton III round out the cast as the rest of the elimination team, each hinting at the shortcomings that have landed them in this hellish job. The promise of a $10,000 bonus hanging just beyond reach, they set out to clean the facility.
But Danvers State also holds its own attractions. For Mike (Stephen Gevedon,) it is the taped sessions with a psychotic patient named Mary Hobbes. For Hank (Josh Lucas,) it is the stash of old coins and trinkets he discovers hidden in the walls. For Phil (David Caruso,) it is perhaps the ultimate ownership of Hazmat Elimination Co. And for Gordon, it is something far more unsettling and not altogether natural.
Perhaps the most imposing character in the film is Danvers State Mental Hospital itself. Shaped like a bat, with a once administrative area branching off into "wings," the farthest reaches of this enormous creature were reserved for the most severely psychotic cases...cases like Mary Hobbes.
An effective use of foreshadowing, steady rise in tension, masterful cinematography and a group of solid character-actors makes Session 9 the best film to grace an otherwise flagging genre since, well, The Haunting.
The DVD (from USA Home Entertainment) contains the 100-minute feature film in letterbox, Deleted Scenes (including a wisely rethought alternate ending,) Story-to-Screen storyboard comparisons, Director's Commentary (with blessed on/off feature,) a chilling theatrical trailer, and the fascinating featurette, "The Haunted Palace," a look at the very real location and some of the art inspired by it.
This review is for the Region 1 encoded DVD with English Closed Captioning and Dolby Digital Stereo.