When I first saw magnolia, I would have given it 3 stars.  Like many other people I thought it was way too long and didn't deliver what it promised.  I have now seen it again and have given 4 stars.  I was mostly  wrong.
Seeing magnolia with wrong expectations is "deathly".  Because it was directed by the same director and shared many actors, I went  expecting Boogie Nights.  Because I knew it was about interweaving  storylines, I expected Pulp Fiction or Go. I expected an "event"  driven movie.  I expected all of this because this is what most movies are  made of.  Magnolia is NOT most movies.
Magnolia is not driven by events,  but emotions. I still believe the prologue is a bit deceptive because of  this.  It leads you to believe that the characters' actions are going to  unite them, but they are actually united when acted upon.  I still love the  prologue because it is wonderfully filmed, but it truly isn't crucial to  the movie. The story is told through the feelings of the characters (a bit  like catcher in the Rye).  We see them slowly fall apart and come to terms  with life. Part of what makes magnolia difficult to deal with, is that the  pain is so real.  When Earl partridge delivers his deathbed speech I  thought I was going to scream.  It was so long and miserable.....but now I  realize that's the point.  If P.T. Anderson had made a dying man  "enjoyable" it would have been dishonest.  People dying of cancer  is not fun, therefore the cancer sequences are not fun.  For the most part,  this movie is about misery, so you may start feeling miserable. You begin  to feel like the characters.  You wonder how long can the pain last, and  right when you least expect it, something amazing happens and you (along  with the characters) realize that life (or at least your perspective) can  be changed in an instant.  
  Many call this amazing event that happens  in the movie unrealistic and absurd, but it REALLY HAPPENS...do your  research (there are several webpages discussing the topic). I initially  found waiting almost 3 hours for this event to be frustrating, but now I  realize it adds to the shock and surprize.
I'm sick of typing because I  realize I can't explain a movie that is all about experience.  See it for  yourself, and if you hate it, think about it, and watch it again.