Travolta MAKES this movie work as an absolute WILD RIDE & I LOVED IT!! Too many spy thrillers and even action flicks get so hung up on "the story" nowadays that you end up missing out on most of the FUN and just going, "Huh???" in the end (e.g. the first Mission Impossible). But don't worry...Except for an anemic first 15 minutes that seemed like it would never end, this movie doesn't simply stop periodically and try and TELL a story. Instead, the convoluted - but interesting - story DEVELOPS as the movie just shifts into high-gear and keeps moving at break-neck speed with jaw-dropping action alternating with over-the-top humor! It works so well because Travolta plays an off-the-chain near super hero spy with Jonathan Rhys Meyers playing the "straight guy" who also happens to be the wannabe super spy. And become a super spy he does - on Travolta's Fast Track Plan!!

There's bodies piling up by the dozens wherever these guys go, a car chase that rivals anything you've ever seen in The Transporter series and gunfights/explosions galore. The tongue-in-cheek humor prevalent throughout the film shows that it never takes itself too seriously. For example, in one scene, Travolta tells his partner to stay a floor down while he goes up a spiral staircase after the bad guys. Every few seconds you hear a couple of muffled silencer shots and the bad guys literally start falling from the sky! Just brilliant and hilarious film-making!! Now, don't laugh too hard...But From Paris With Love reminds me quite a bit of Live Free or Die Hard. There are more than a few similarities: super hero-type playing off an inexperienced newbie; a bald Travolta and a bald Bruce Willis; both duos hunt down terrorists; special effects that look both real and unreal at the same time. But unlike Willis and his ever-present bloody shirt, Travolta's character never gets a scratch. I'm also impressed that he did so many of the stunts in this flick and didn't end up in the hospital! He moves around pretty well for a guy his age...

There's a Special Feature on the DVD where former real spies claim there really are Special Ops guys like Travolta's character in the real world! Too bad there isn't a reality show that follows them around...In fact, this is EXACTLY the kind of movie I wish someone would turn into a weekly TV series! I'd watch it every week...