I bought this purely for Johnny Depp, and it did sound like an interesting story. Right at the start, there's a lovely shot of Johnny's eyes, but when you hear people getting stabbed, it's so realistic, and so horrible! Sends shivers up your spine. There are a few familiar faces in this - Lesley Sharpe, Robbie Coltrane &amp; Ian Holm. 
The soundtrack is quite haunting and creepy, although the bit which really sticks out in my mind, is the heartbeat which appears faintly in the background when Johnny appears on screen, and steadily gets louder. It's a brilliant sound effect to use.
The one thing I noticed about Johnny's character (Inspector Fred Abberline) was that he seemed to be reprising his role of Ichabod Crane in Sleepy Hollow. Very similar characters. His English accent is surprisingly good, considering some of the other actors who have tried and failed in the past. (Not naming any names, but Keanu Reeves springs to mind!)
There's some lovely shots in this including close ups of Johnny's eyes, a cracking shot of Big Ben against a red sky, and the whole film seems to capture the essence of London in 1888 perfectly.
Heather Graham (Mary Kelly) has always annoyed me as an actress, for no particular reason, and I tend to avoid films with her in them. The red hair in this was a big mistake, she's very pale skinned to begin with, and the redness washes her out even more.
To begin with, it was hard to work out whether the character played by Robbie Coltrane was superior to Johnny's character. Later we find out that he was a sergeant. He plays the part of a sarcastic, temperamental policeman, a role which he is well known for, and particularly good at. 
The film is an 18, due to a couple of scenes. The scenes where the `unfortunates' "livelihood" is removed, is particularly disgusting, and not a pleasant image to have in your head. You just need to see the reactions in the film to feel nauseous. Also the scene where a girl's throat gets cut is really graphic, and I thought Murron's throat in Braveheart getting cut was bad! This is much, much worse!
The ending of this totally threw my opinion of the entire film. Up until then, the film had been good. From Hell is a film about Jack the Ripper, but the Hughes brothers (Coen brothers, Wachowski brothers and now the Hughes brothers!) provided their own solution to the Jack the Ripper mystery. This has been an unproven and unsolved mystery, so I didn't like how they decided to "solve" the mystery. It should have been left well alone. It seems like they wanted to wind up the story, so chose any random character to be Jack the Ripper. It doesn't work. 
This isn't really a horror movie, more a dramatisation, and there was a lack of tension as a thriller. Definitely a must-see for Johnny Depp fans, and people interested in the Jack the Ripper mystery - although the ending doesn't really match the rest of the film. And the ending is also sad!