Director Nicholas Meyer puts this age-old question to rest in the spiffy director's commentary included with the Director's release.  My family already owned the entire movie series (up through First Contact) on VHS widescreen, however, as with most DVDs Paramount has given considerable thought to extras (see Product Details).  The interveiws with the principal cast members are both bizzare and funny.
There are also extended scenes that longtime fans will recognize are often only included when TBS makes their tri-annual showing of this film. Some would argue they are still unnecessary and slow the film down, but I am thankful that they were restored for this edition.
This release had a new transfer that was just as good as, if not better than, the last DVD release of the film in 2000.  For a film of this age (and the fact that no one is about to go "Lucas" on it), colors are pretty favorable, even with the heave use of reds in the action sequences, uniforms, and its effect on fleshtones. Black levels seem pretty solid, but grain and dirt are a bit more detectable the now old effects sequences (the Mutara Nebula sequence seems to suffer the most).
Audio is Dolby 5.1 surroud -- the same used in the 2000 release (except for the new footage added, of course).  Don't expect to give your surround system a workout.  Fortunately, James Horner's score is still very enjoyable.
Star Trek fans: get it &amp; you won't regret it.
Newcomers: A good introduction into the movie series that include the original, principal cast, though I would highly suggest you watch "Space Seed" from the original TV series (as so many others have said) first in order for you to understand Khan (and why it's so funny when Khan says he remember's Checov).  By watching Wrath of Khan, you will avoid the disco fever that plagued the first Motion Picture, and the following movies will make more sense (except for ST V: The Final Frontier).
Pure sci-fi enjoyment -- all this from a director (Nicholas Meyer) who considers himself a non-fan!