1967 marked the end of Audrey Hepburn's continuous reign as a major film star. After this her cinema appearances would be sporadic and in vehicles of uneven quality. She certainly went out with a bang, giving two topnotch performances in films that year, of which "Two for the Road" is one ("Wait Until Dark" is the other).

The lush photography of the French countryside and equally lush score by Henry Mancini link this film with other glossy Hepburn vehicles such as "Charade," but Stanley Donen's film of a Frederic Raphael screenplay is a surprisingly acerbic and unsparing take on marriage. Mark Wallace (Albert Finney), an architect, and his wife Joanna (Hepburn) arrive in France, called to a project by his demanding boss. Their twelve-year union is obviously not in the best of shape, and as they travel toward their destination scenes from previous journeys they have taken together as a couple are intercut in alternately amusing, ironic and poignant flashbacks. The fluid time structure of the film remains remarkably fresh, and Hepburn rises to the demands of playing a woman at multiple ages and stages of life with ease, giving one of her finest and subtly shaded film performances, though a viewer with a heart of stone would have to admit she looks too mature for the earliest scenes in which she is supposed to be a college co-ed. Finney by comparison is one-note and overbearing early on, though he settles down as the film progresses, or perhaps the grating persona is deliberately imposed by the actor. At any rate the chemistry between him and Hepburn is obvious and adds to the credibility of the story; reports of an on-set romance seem entirely plausible.

Not all of "Two for the Road" has aged equally well--the attempts at outright comedy, such as a running gag involving a lost passport, are now strained and a sequence with a smug American couple and their monster of a daughter descends into caricature. But as a gritty portrait of a long-term relationship and the compromises one must make, it holds up well against many successors. It must be said in closing, too, that Hepburn wears her frequently outlandish fashions with enviable ease. Highly recommended.