Oh yea! This set is worth the ten bucks just for "Taste the Blood od Dracula." And these Prints look great.Just so you know, I'm writing this review before I have watched Dracula A.D. 1972. (which isn't supposed to be too hot).

As for the Horror of Dracula, I rate it Two Stars because the second Half was slow.
It's the Bram Stroker story with some liberties taken which at first make it better. But doesn't work in the second half. There is no Fritz character, and Lee doesn't get any good lines like Bela got. for instance "Listen to them, children of the night, what music they make." This movie shows no neck biting or any blood. Some horror movies don't need gore because they have a great story and atmosphere and good acting. This movie had good acting, but the story is weak and they spend too much time with the good guys, namely Van Helsing (Peter Cushing) and the annoying Arthur Holmwood,(played by (Michael Gough who played Alfred in the Batman Movies in wich he's great). This can't compare to the Bela Legosi movie.It's just too slow. But just wait for the next two movies and you'll be happy!

Dracula Has Risen From The Grave is a really fun and well acted Hammer Movie with Creepy Atmosphere to spare! A lot of the story takes place on rooftops that link the neighborhood and it's a great effect. Christopher Lee is Great and so is Barbara Ewing as Zena, the Bar Maid. It's never dull and has one of the best endings in any vampire movie that I've seen. A Three and a Half star movie!

And now to Taste the Blood of Dracula. This movie is just great entertainment and really creepy. Wonderful gothic sets and great photography. I love the dark tone from the three aristocratic men who delve into the dark arts only to regret it. Ralph Bates is a bit over the top as Lord Courtly, but  that works well in his final scene! This movie, like Dracula Has Risen From the Grave, has 1960's social commentary. The young College Educated man (Anthony Paxton as Paul) is hated by the his girlfriend's dad (Geoffrey Keen as William Hargood). Plus Hargood is hypocritical in his Christianity. So it's youth against the establishment, and the establishment is messing things up (by ressurecting Count Dracula!) I give this movie four stars!

You can't go wrong with thes set if you like Horror.