"Sanjuro," by Akira Kurosawa is a highly recommended film. The film is a sequel to Kurosawa's film "Yojimbo," and as usual, the late, great Toshiro Mifune shines in this off-beat and at times comical follow-up to the earlier film. I have seen this classic many times, yet never tire of the non-verbal wit of Mifune as a completely different kind of ronin. Mifune's continual warnings to the young group of samurai on what direction they should proceed with, in order to help rescue the kidnapped Chamberlain, always falls on deaf ears. Moreover, it is up to him to continually rescue them. The films narrative follows the attempts of nine young impulsive samurai, who while planning to file a grievance of corruption within their clan to the local superintendent, is met with the timely arrival of a ronin named Sanjuro Tsubaki (Toshiro Mifune), who is not your typical ronin.

The Chamberlain of this clan, Mutsuta (Yunosuke Ito) has been kidnapped and is being held prisoner. He is being forced to sign a confession of corruption, lest anything happen to his wife and daughter. The nine young men are very naive, and do not realize that they need their wits about them in order to rescue the Chamberlain. Most of their actions are irrational. Moreover, their attempts to rescue the Chamberlain are ill-conceived. And due to the fact they are ALL naive, they wind up being a headache for Sanjuro Tsubaki (Toshiro Mifune), and a danger to themselves. These nine young samurai, who are led by the nephew of the Chamberlain, continue to make mistakes and never listen to what this ronin tries to tell them. They are not only naive, but arrogant as well. They do not realize that not only are they putting the Chamberlains life at risk, but theirs as well.

Plus, there is the presence in the film of Hanbei Muroto (Tatsuya Nakadai). Who like Toshiro Mifune, is one of the greatest actors that Japan has ever produced. [Films such as Harakiri, Ran, Kagemusha, etal]. You can tell in the film that Hanbei Muroto does not want to clash with Sanjuro Tsubaki (Toshiro Mifune): As he senses that this is no ordinary ronin. But will these two giants of cinema eventually cross swords in a duel? And will the nine young samurai finally wise up and listen to Sanjuro? Or will they meet a tragic end? As usual, CRITERION did an excellent job with the DVD transfer. This is a highly recommended film. I really like Yojimbo; but I give a slight edge to "Sanjuro", because it was one of the first Japanese films that I ever viewed, and there are many great memories for me when I view this wonderful classic. Plus, I really like the comical and nuanced character traits of Toshiro Mifune in this film. As I wrote before, his non-verbal wit is outstanding in the film. Once again the film is highly recommended.