It's a Jaws movie; not Braveheart, not Silence of the Lambs, but a JAWS MOVIE.  Universal Studios' theme parks (both coasts) have extremely cheesy attractions based on this series (Orlando's version seems closer to  "Jaws 2" than the original), and no matter how silly, people  stand in line for an hour to see the big, fake-looking shark jump out at  them.  I live in Orlando, so I see this first hand every time I visit the  park.
Subsequently, I just bought "Jaws - The Revenge" on DVD  (cheaply) just for fun.  It was the first time, since it's opening night in  1987, that I have watched it (13 years ago, I walked out of it before the  end and sneaked into "Robocop" which opened the same day).  Now  that I've seen the whole thing, I feel humbled.  It's really not that  bad.
I have actually read all of the reviews here at Amazon, and some  others (Roger Ebert's Chicago Sun-Times review and TV Guide Online's Move  Database - an excellent resource) and I am ready to debunk those who had  (ironically the same) jaded opinions.  Let's begin, shall we?
"The  shark looks fake" - well DUUUUUHHHHHHH!  This was made 12 years  before "Deep Blue Sea" and two years before James Cameron helped  break special effects ground with "The Abyss."  Yes, it looks  fake, but for the first time in the series, the shark occupied a lot more  screen time.  Spielberg didn't show the shark early in his film because he  really couldn't - the mechanical sharks made for the first "Jaws"  were very difficult in the beginning of the shoot - there's still one  missing out at sea from 1975.  Also, CGI was almost unheard of at that  time.  I'm sure if the filmmakers had the technology at the time, they  would have tried to utilize some of it.
"The story has continuity  problems" - actually, it doesn't.  There are two scenes where Ellen  Brody (played for the third time by Lorraine Gary) has flashbacks to events  where she wasn't present; one was from the first film (and justified later  in the story) and the other was from several key points in this film.  The  only other way to convey these thoughts/flashbacks would be to say them out  loud - guess how awkward that would've been.
"The shark roars"  - OK, it did, but it was only for dramatic effect (the shark in the Orlando  ride roars, too - listen in the boathouse).  Remember, we're not defining  Pi here.
"The shark leaps out of the water like Shamu and stays  there indefinitely" - well, no; the scene in question is in extreme  slow motion and probably should've been edited a little better.
Roger  Ebert stated there was no "establishing shot" before the shark  was killed, and it did happen pretty quickly, but if you put yourself in  the same situation (I know, now I'm supporting the realistic quality of  it), you don't exactly get a lot of "establishing shots" in life  to perfectly set up a climax.
Please understand, I do realize this isn't  a fantastic movie, but the bad reputation that it has, and the fact that a  "part five" hasn't occurred in over a decade and probably never  will, is unfortunate.  Given the advancement in special effects technology,  maybe someone will write a worthy script and another will be made (maybe on  the 30th anniversary of the first film).  Jamie Lee Curtis came back to  Haddonfield 20 years later, so I guess anything's possible.
By the way,  the DVD version is the one where Jake (Mario Van Peebles - did you know his  father Melvin was in the movie, too?) lives.  I saw that question a lot  here, so I thought I should probably mention it.  The DVD has absolutely no  extras, which some may scoff at, but hey, I said I got it cheaply.
So,  about "Hudson Hawk" and "The Last Action Hero"...