In Sweet Home Alabama, Melanie thinks she's better than everyone in Alabama because of where she lives and where she works and because of her relationship with the mayor's son. Futhermore, Melanie goes back to Alabama only to realize what she's been missing all along.

 On October 23, 2005 I watched Sweet Home Alabama in my bedroom. This was my third time watching it. Earlier this year I watched it with a group of friends at there house. My first time watching Sweet Home Alabama was at the Orpheum Theater when it first played in Kodiak.

 I believe that Melanie thinks she's better than everyone in Alabama because she compares her lifestyle to their lifestyle. Melanie's lifestyle is fast, on the edge and what most people would say luxurious. On the other hand, the people in Alabama have a slower lifestyle, more laid back and they all have ordinary jobs. I think Melanie compares her job and her city to Alabama when really there is no comparision. The city and the country are on opposite ends of the spectrum. It all comes down to what you like and what fits your lifestyle. I think Melanie starts to realize what fits her lifestyle toward the end of the film. At heart, Melanie is a small town country girl who is happy with making an average amount of money. This is what she realizes when she comes back to Alabama.

 When Melanie makes the trip back to Alabama, she's engaged with the mayor of New York's son. To me, this is another reason why Melanie thinks she's better than everyone else. This guy could give her the life she never had and the life her mom had always wanted her to have. The life that I'm talking about is the one full of security and pampering. Since the guy she was going to marry had incredible amounts of money, she could go off and do whatever she had ever dreamed of doing. I think this was tempting to her because she thought she wanted all the things that Alabama couldn't give her. In reality, Alabama had everything she had ever known or really wanted. She didn't think she could like "the guy next door" because that wasn't how everything was supposed to work out. Her plan was to go off to bigger and better things and meet the guy of her dreams. The guy of her dreams was supposed to be tall, dark and handsome with lots of money. She thought she needed that guy who looked like he was going somewhere and a guy who could giver her the security she had always wanted. Liking the average Joe like Jake was almost impossible thinking for her after she had moved to New York. It was almost like she had standards for the guy that she was dating. Towards the end of the movie she realized that money doesn't make you happy and that love is all that should matter in the end.

 Now that I have watched Sweet Home Alabama for the third time, I can say that she has found what she has been missing all along. She was missing the life that Alabama gave her the first time around. Alabama is where she started and Alabama is where she will end.

 I thought this whole dilemma that Melanie had going on was helpful for the audience to fully understand the point of the movie.