This story does a terrific job of keeping the audience's attention. So many unusual and memorable moments are displayed here from one of the bank robbers who suddenly gets " bad vibes " and luckily bails out of the robbery , to the police's , FBI's , and media's arrival , to the pizza boy scene , and to Sonny's mom arriving at the scene. (she adviced Sonny to run away even though the FBI , NYPD , and all of New York City was watching. Hilarious!) This is pretty much a depiction of Murphy's Law going into full effect for these two guys trying to rob a bank. Part of the reason why the film is intriguing is because the story makes you care about how these two guys are going to get out of this situation. It glues you to the tv. It makes you care about everyone involved with very well developed characters.
The acting is grade A+ all the way through this film. This is acting 101. "Sonny" is one of Pacino's Oscar nominated performances. Pacino has a way of keeping you fixed on him but the supporting cast more than complements him with terrific performances. (my favorite scene : Sonny's phone conversations with Leon and Angie. Perfect!) The film earned six Academy Award nominations including Best Picture and won for best original screenplay. The film , excellently , captures the feel of summertime in the city. The opening of the film , effectively , establishes the tone and the feel of the setting. The screenplay Oscar was well earned. One of my favorite films.
The film is divided into 29 chapters on the DVD.
On the DVD you don't get alot of extras here. You get actor's bios , the awards that the film won , subtitles in english , spanish , and french and the Reel Recommendation's and thats about it. The audio is in digital mono. I am going to guess that one day Warner Brothers will release a special edition of " Dog Day Afternoon " with better DVD extras. Maybe in 2005 for the film's 30th anniversary. I'm writing this in 2001. We'll have to wait and see.
P.S. Everytime I hear that Elton John song I think of this film.