Dave was your typical ten-year-old until one fateful afternoon on a field trip when he passed a note to his crush. The note was swept up in a gust of wind and through a series of odd coincidences ended up inside a shop. It was in this shop that Dave met Balthazar, who informed Dave that he is a sorcerer.

Fast forward ten years and Dave is now a socially inept physics geek. Balthazar reenters Dave's life and tells him he needs to begin his training. Dave quickly realizes he's caught up in a centuries-old rivalry that could result in the end of the world- and he is the only one who can prevent it. Balthazar quickly tries to train Dave so they can battle the forces of evil that are trying to destroy the world.

The Sorcerer's Apprentice is an exciting and entertaining film for the whole family! It has a little of everything in it- action, magic, humor and romance! The characters are funny and interesting (everything from geeky Dave to the greatest wizard ever known, Merlin). The content is family friendly so you can enjoy it with the kids, but it's exciting enough to be a great movie for adults as well. I enjoyed the acting, and everyone did a spectacular job! There were quite a few familiar faces- Nicholas Cage is fantastic (as always) and Jay Baruchel once again shows that he is a pro at portraying the painfully awkward guy! Alfred Molina is also present, and plays a great villain! There are also many new faces- Toby Kebbell is showing us that he is an extremely diverse actor, one moment he's playing a rugged Persian prince and the next he's an egocentric magician!

One of the things I love about this movie is that Disney gives a nod to some of its past endeavors (Hint: think of a character by the same title and you'll have an idea of what I'm referring to). Subtle homage to various films and characters can be seen throughout the movie, providing what computer geeks would refer to as "Easter eggs" for the viewer to catch. Some are relatively obvious, but if you're like me, you'll have to brush the cobwebs off of your memories of some of the older Disney flicks!

I also love that the trailers didn't ruin every funny scene. There were many other parts of the movie that made me laugh! This movie has plenty of surprises, and it keeps you engaged for the entire length of the film. The soundtrack is also excellent, with fantastic compositions from Trevor Rabin. His music sounds like a cross between Klaus Badelt's Pirates of the Caribbean score and Steve Jablonsky's Transformers score, with a few distinct touches of his own. The primary song repeated throughout the film is OneRepublic's "Secrets", which I feel was an appropriate song choice!

The movie is a bit predictable, but it's not as if you can expect otherwise from a Disney film. Some of the characters weren't incredibly well developed, however I don't feel it detracted from the film. To have gone into the details of every character would have made the movie too long. Regardless, I would highly recommend this movie to anyone! So, if you're in the mood for something a bit more action packed, definitely consider this one! Also, if you tend to be a film score junkie (like me), you should definitely consider grabbing the soundtrack! It's got some great tracks!