What can go wrong in a movie produced by David Selznick, and starring Jimmy Stewart and Carole Lombard? The answer is nothing, nothing at all. The movie (1939) is brilliantly directed by John Cromwell, sets the stage for future classics such as "Penny Serenade (1941)" and "It's a Wonderful Life (1946)." Newsweek wrote in its review that they were "perfectly cast in the leading roles." This is a family drama about a young couple, named John Mason (James Stewart) and Jane Mason (Carole Lombard), who get married after just one date during John's stay in Boston. When they get back to New York, obviously everyone is surprised; an overpowering and overbearing curmudgeon, named Joseph Doolittle (Charles Coburn) as John's boss at the law firm who is unhappy that John didn't marry his daughter Eunice (Ruth Weston), and Jane's annoying mother-in-law Harriet Mason (Lucile Watson). The problems are typical especially for Jane Mason, after constant complaints and comments of her mother in law that Jane can't cook or clean, and the financial problems created by unexpected responsibility of a new baby on the way. The real star of the movie is Carole Lombard who offers spectacular performance as a newly wed woman trying to do her best, while offering a dinner party for John's boss, or trying to cope with house maids leaving the Mason family after constantly being harassed by Harriet Mason, or advising John as how to stand up for his rights as a man with his boss when asking for a fair wage. Things get worse as John's boss offers a pay cut due to shrinking business, and the new born is seriously sick, and only a serum from Salt Lake City could save the child. As the drama unfolds, everyone pitch in to help, a pilot from Salt Lake City offer to fly in a bad snow storm risking his own life, and John's boss offering to help financially, and emotionally. At the end all ends well and everyone is happy, and John is back in the driver's seat at the law firm.

The story is set during Christmas time, and singing of Auld Lang Syne during New Year's eve is reminiscent of It's a Wonderful Life; while it is heart warming to hear that song, the real tragedy unfolds as the entire set watches the medicine being flown in a private single seat plane during a severe snow storm..

It is a sad irony to watch Carole Lombard playing as a young mother. In real life, happily married to Clark Gable, she was desperate to have a child but sadly that dream remained unfulfilled after the tragic plane crash in Las Vegas in January 1942. Just before boarding the plane, Carole had addressed her fans, saying, "Before I say goodbye to you all, come on and join me in a big cheer! V for Victory" President Franklin D. Roosevelt admired her patriotism, and declared her the first woman killed in the line of duty during the war, and posthumously awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom.

1. <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0000003VY">The Songs Of Robert Burns, Volumes 1 & 2</a>