Bob has enough irrational and unreasonable phobias to give Sigmund Freud a headache.  Bob, the main character in the film "What About Bob?," is portrayed by the hilarious Bill Murray.

 Bob shows many signs of an inferiority complex.  He is an unhealthy individual who is unable to cope with many realities of life.  Instead of coping with inferiority constructively, Bob copes using avoidance and fear, which stops all real progress.

 As depressing as it sounds, Bob is hysterical!  Bill Murray's acting is topnotch.  This is a must-see for anyone.  All of the knee-slapping comes from Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss.  Dreyfuss plays the role of Bob's increasingly angry and irritated therapist.

 Before he even gets dressed for the day, Bob repeats to himself, "I feel good, I feel great, I feel wonderful."  Bob lives all by himself, accompanied only by his goldfish.  He is a mess.  Bob tends to lose almost all mobility.  He becomes stiff as a board and uses tissues to avoid contact with door handles and other things commonly used by people.  While walking down the street, he continuously tells himself, "I feel good, I feel great, I feel wonderful."

 Bob decides one day to see a shrink.  He eventually finds himself face to face with the doctor.  He says that he worries about diseases and, while in public, gets, "...dizzy spells, nausea, cold sweats, hot sweats, fever blisters, difficulty breathing, difficulty swallowing, blurred vision, involuntary trembling, dead hands, numb lips, fingernail sensitivity, pelvic discomfort."  When asked what it is that he is really afraid of, Bob replies, "What if I'm looking for a bathroom?  I can't find it and...my bladder explodes."  After listening to some of the doctor's comments, Bob expresses an intense need for the doctor and belief that he can help him.

Bob's multi-phobic personality drives his therapist mad once Bob starts clinging to him.  His condition worsens when his therapist leaves for vacation and he is left alone.  Bob becomes desperate and tracks his therapist down at his vacation home.  There, his therapist's family becomes attached to him while his therapist becomes increasingly annoyed.

 Aside from a little profanity, this PG-rated film is very family-friendly.  It remains one of the funniest movies of all time without the use of violence or nudity.  It is as refreshingly comical today as it was when released in 1991.