Someone's lost their sense of humour!
Well, I rented this video last night. I was pretty damn pleased with it, not least because of the pretty girls and pretty songs, and the back-door-lovin boy band.  Many bits made silly-ol'-me fall of my seat laughing , like the Honk if you love pussy......cats. This sets the tone of the film and introduces us to the completely gorgeous lovable wacko Mel). The plot is laughable, but so what? Very cute Rachel acting as Josie is a little flat but who cares? The film pokes fun at a horribly real cross-mass-marketing culture, in which all forms of media gang up to sell us the same products, and feed us the same drivel about what's going on in our world. But it didn't get bogged down in a lesson in ethics. It's a very watchable film, and that's all you need to know.
For those who go a little deeper:
How can so many viewers/reviewers/critics can miss the very very obvious running joke about the totally OTT product placement, and instead tell us that there's a lot of product placement in the film. That it becomes exactly what it satirises? Isn't satire all about the characters drawing attention to unpleasant reality by living that reality hilariously?  Lighten up!
How can anyone think that the ridiculous McDonalds shower-scene and Mel's urge to eat big macs after hearing their music played back through a "processor" will really make all the kids flock to McDonalds to buy Big Macs and Ronald McDonald bath-sponges? (I'd rather buy a shower with Mel in it, but maybe that's inappropriate)
There's nothing subliminal about all this, IT IS JUST A JOKE. Many seem to have lost their sense of irony. If we're assuming that kids won't get the joke, we're being very patronising. And maybe the fact that the distinction between
celebrating/slating the whole consumer culture is occasionally blurred in this film, makes the valid point that, WE  MAKE UP OUR OWN MINDS. If you wanna diet coke, get one, otherwise don't!
Recently, Justin Timberlake has teamed up with McDonalds here in the UK for a massive "I'm lovin it" ad campaign. No joke! Stick a Timburger in your CD player.
The fact that MTV avoided showing much about this film suggests that MTV felt targetted, not flattered, by being cast as distributors of the corporate propaganda. Not a celebration but an attack. Surely a good thing?
So..... cute likeable girls (esp Tara Reid), great one-liners and comedy timing by the pussycats as well as the other characters, bright sparkly production, fun fun fun!
 Did I like the film? Definitely. Would I buy the DVD? Yes, I think so. Was it better than Rock 'n' Roll High School which I bought last week (silly plot, stupid gags, great laughs and of course the Ramones)(...) well(...) that would be telling!
Some reviewers can't spell PARODY (parity, parroty, perrady). Can we blame them for missing the gags? Watch it again, I say.
The only truly subliminal message in the movie, from the gig scene at the end, managed to work through my mind into the title of the review. Whoops!