I believe that CUBE has a deeper meaning than just inacting how humans react in extreme situations.

To state the conclusion first :
Cube is a film about language and structure that humans are forever bound to.

In CUBE, there are 26 x 26 x 26 cubes in the entire structure. This represents the 26 alphabet letters and their combinations. The characters wake up in the vast structure of CUBE, just as humans wake up to a world of language, symbols, and meanings attached to the symbols. When humans wake up to the reality (when you begin to have a sense of self and existence) this happens within the scope of language. When we are born we start our lives by recognizing the image of "mother." Then we recognize "self."

CUBE represents the dimension of language. French psycoanalyst Jacques Lacan suggested that the subject is permeated by language. In the movie, Decart's coordinates are mentioned as a key to figure out the position of the cubes. We all know Decart's famous saying: "I think, therefore I exist." The mentioning of Decart may suggest the message that our existance is defined by language by which we think. Conversely, Lacan suggested that thinking and existing are not compatible, because to think means to follow the structure of language into which we were born. Because our own identities are only definable when we are free of the identity of symbols that restrict us, we can never exist as a self with language.

This goes along with the meaning of CUBE. The struggles of the characters are struggles to find their way out of the claws of the world of symbols that define them. And because they cannot exist out of the structures of language, no one manages to exit CUBE through the 27 th room (the unexisting 27 th letter in the English alphabet) except Kazan, the only person free from language. (Perhaps because he does not have the ability to grasp language as the others do)

The first person to be killed (the person who never meets any others, wanders into another room and is meshed into cubes) possibly represents a priest. The absence of the representation of any spiritual leaders among the six people who manage to gather and the overall appearance of the meshed man suggests that he is a priest, possibly Christian or Catholic. The fact that he is the first to be killed suggests that he is the first victim of language and that he is forever bound by it, never doubting its existance or authenticity. This is only possible because Christianity is bound by language, depending on written and spoken sermons to convey important messages.

In CUBE, different cubes move about each other. This represents different symbols leading to other symbols and other meanings. Some people wander from one symbol to the next. Some are killed during their effort while some manage to return to their original position. From when we were born we had not needed to follow symbols and learn language because our existance lies eleswhere. In CUBE, when Leaven, Worth, and Kazan finally return to the cube they started on, Worth loses the will to escape. This symbolizes his fright of leaving the structure of language that defines his identity and existance. Or may be he just realized that the world out there is just as same, regulated by certain structures that he cannot escape from even at death.

The final scenes in which Quentin stakes Leaven and Worth symbolizes the symbol "S" perforated by a "/" which represents Lacan's theory that the subject is permeated by language. The 27 th room, like the 27 th letter in the alphabet that does not exist, is even harder to escape, save Kazan who I doubt knew how many letters the alphabet has.

I really like this movie and the deep meaning that lies behind it. I think that the meaning may differ from my guess, but still, this is the way I interpreted the film. This is only a subjective analysis, and I wanted to share this with other people. I haven't looked, so I don't know if other people think the same way or not.