Well, I'm writing this review without looking at any other reviews first - just the overall ranking - because I flat don't agree with it. 
The TV series had a wonderful whimsical, intriguing, mystical feel with the giant magical mecha suits, its odd combination of magic and technology, and the girl lost in a strange world storyline, but this movie gives us a fakey angsty twist on the main character that I found completely pointless and rather annoying.  It did nothing for the main storyline and made her seem rather pathetic, in the end, rather than heroic.  There wasn't enough motivation given for any kind of change in her  character and it all came off as rather flat.  Hitomi deserved better treatment than that.
The visuals are also extremely dark, if beautifully designed, and the battles can get a little confusing because of it (but Van's initial attack on the airship carrying Escaflowne... wow!  Brutal and savage and incredibly rendered in near-monochromatic silhouette... oh yes, kiddies, swords are NOT toys...) but I was vastly disappointed to find that most of the main characters had been reduced to mere leather-clad charactures of themselves or given inconsequential cameos.  (Dryden? Allen? Gaddes?  Naria & Eriya?  Cripes... was *that* Millerna?!  Somehow I don't think she's studying to be a doctor anymore... *sigh*) 
The re-design of Escaflowne itself was interesting (as was the twist on how the suit bonded to Van... blood... *shiver*), but not much more than that.  Besides, it was just too dark most of the time to see it very well... and I prefer the suit's original incarnation and it's old flying dragon-form to the new design.
Dilandau's obsessiveness was nicely highlighted as was Van's pain at the choices necessary in the end, but overall I was highly disappointed with the movie.  I expected something with at least a little of the charm and pagentry, heroism and melancholy of the series and got a grim, battle-heavy, dark, angst-fest instead. (Oh, poor Folken!)  Some of the fight scenes are cool, but, unfortunately, they don't have as intriguing a story around them to make them have a real point.  Why do we really care about the final duel here?  And that's one of the best scenes in the series... the final duel between Dilandau and Van... with Allen stepping in... everything had built to that point.  This movie takes the barest, barest essentials of the plot of what is a rather complex series and crams it into a single movie.  It just loses too much for me, and I felt they could have handled the condensing with more care - or picked a sub-plot from the series to expand into something more true to the source rather than this odd re-hash of the whole thing.  
I've already bought it - and Van's first fight is incredible to watch - so I'll keep it, but frankly the TV series itself is far better.  I recommend you pick that up instead.  (And you'll even get used to the ski-jump noses after a while too... *grin*  They grow on 'ya.)