In 2005, Chris Cleave wrote a novel INCENDIARY about a distraught woman who writes a letter to Osama bin Laden after her four-year-old son and her husband are killed in a massive suicide bomb attack at a soccer match in London. The novel won the 2006 Somerset Maugham Award, was shortlisted for the 2006 Commonwealth Writers Prize, won the United States Book-of-the-Month Club's First Fiction award 2005 and won the Prix Sp&eacute;cial du Jury at the French Prix des Lecteurs 2007.

Three years later Director Sharon Maguire, in her first movie since 2001's Bridget Jones' Diary, made this film of Cleave's book.  Michelle Williams portrays the grieving mother. Ewan McGregor and Matthew MacFadyen star as men who try to console her.  (McGregor's character at the time of the bombing was sharing an "afternoon delight" with her on the living room sofa.)

Williams portrayal is masterful as she relives her son's short life in vivid happy snippets. She is not guilt-ridden nor revenge-seeking. She befriends the son of the bomber and his mother not for revenge but in empathy.  The photography of the beach scenes of mother and son at play and the imaginery blimp are stunning.  And the ending of the movie will haunt you for days.

Generally, the film received poor professional reviews from critics.  Apparently a theme of a simple western woman who empathizes with a third world terrorist's family is too strange to grasp.  Tom Charity, after viewing the film at the 2008 Sundance Film Festival, gave it one star out of five and called it an "ambitious/opportunistic effort that misses the mark, from the one-dimensional characters to the craven plotting and sentimental tone."

Time Out gave it two stars out of six, saying "there are so many things wrong with writer-director Sharon Maguire's film... that it's hard to know where to start, but the fatal problem is that this is a film with an 'identity crisis'; the film at times seems like a 'study of guilt and grief' and at other times a 'conspiracy thriller' but ends up being a compendium of bizarre diversions, most of which are utterly surplus to the film's half-cocked desire to stick with the experience and emotions of its main character."  The male reviewer for Time Out apparently was bent-out-of shape that an American actress was selected to portray a "nervy young British mother on a London council estate" calling the casting a joke.

Neither of these male film critics considered the film a character study nor noted Michelle Williams' stellar performance. She was in almost every scene!

(At the time of this review...Michelle Williams has been nominated for a 2012 Golden Globe for her performance in My Week with Marilyn.  Bet the family fortune she will win if she transforms herself into her character as she does in INCENDIARY!)