As a dedicated fan of the Lost In Space TV series since my childhood in the 60's I approached New Line's big-screen version with a mixture of anticipation and trepidation on its release in '98. I'd heard about the  initial reviews and was ready to be severely let-down. Imagine my surprise  to emerge from the cinema feeling as though it was one of the best times  I've had at the movies.The amazing effects "blew me away"  (leaving me somewhat exhausted by my responses to them)but unlike so many  recent sci-fi extravaganzas I found myself entertained by a complex and  witty screenplay which also unexpectedly moved me with its restrained use  of sentiment.I applaud the efforts of Akiva Goldsman and Stephen Hopkins to  recapture the tone of the early black and white episodes of the TV series  (before the show descended into camp, never to fully recover)and found the  90's modifications to the concept (eg. dysfunctional family issues etc)  intriguing.  Fans of the show were given clever references to  well-known episodes and lines of dialogue (the first two-thirds of the film  stuck very close to the pilot episode and the following one entitled THE  DERELICT) and the cameos by original cast-members were great.June Lockhart  in particular showed herself to be an actress with a bold sense of humour  about her TV image! The film cast couldn't have been better chosen (Gary  Oldman is particularly outstanding as the vain, villianous Dr. Smith), all  adding the kind of depth we don't see too often in films of this  genre.Bruce Broughton's score (the great John Williams was unable to redo  his classic TV score due to other commitments) is excellent (see the  reviews of the full score CD at Amazon.com) and a worthy successor to its  "forbear".  Although moved by the ending (involving the  saving of John Robinson's life by an older version of his son Will, who in  effect sacrifices himself for him) I originally found the last portion of  the narrative difficult to grasp and sensed that editing had played a hand  in this. The DVD's commentaries and deleted scenes confirmed my  theories(the "time bubble" sequence originally had many  "bubbles" and dialogue had to be cut when confused preview  audiences led the makers to shred this sequence down).Nevertheless,  repeated viewings have made even this section more enjoyable and easier to  grasp (time warp sequences are usually a bit hard to fully work out at the  best of times- eg. BACK TO THE FUTURE II).My only carp is that, despite  Jared Harris' good performance, I wish that Bill Mumy (who played Will in  the series) had been given the opportunity to portray the older version of  Will (he tested for the role and reportedly believed it was his for a time-  his disappointment at losing it apparently played a major part in his  decision to have no part in the production).Harris (the son of Richard  Harris) apparently had his dialogue looped by an American actor.Nonethless,  I happily cannot understand the tirade of criticism levelled against this  film and believe that time will be kinder to it than many other movies  which were well received critically at the same time.One Melbourne critic  (Jim Schembri, of The Age, called it "an undeniably entertaining  extravaganza based on the modest '60's TV series").It is  incomprehensible to me that there were no Oscar nominations forthcoming for  Visual Effects, Sound Effects Editing, Dramatic Score and Art Direction-Set  Decoration. I have yet to play the (excellently produced) DVD to anyone who  has not been entertained and moved by it. A planned sequel is reportedly  unlikely to be made now due to box-office figures- a tremendous pity which  I hope will be turned around before cast contracts expire etc.. I cannot  recommend this film highly enough- even to those who may not be sci-fi  buffs.