The owner of the company I work for is Catholic, so I had Good Friday off. That was the first day this film was viewable in Minneapolis. I happened to see a review of "Schultze Gets The Blues" in the Arts section of our morning newspaper. Most likely I noticed it, because of the picture of Schultze playing an accordion; I played accordion for a few years when I was young as did many of my classmates. But it seemed way too corny and I moved on. I didn't know about Zaydeco! Neither did Schultze.

Then, too, I spent three years in Germany from 1960-63, so the fact that the movie was in German and had English sub-titles did not deter me. My undergraduate degree was in English and I took a lot of German courses, so I am comfortable with deliberate pacing and literary values - this movie is screen literature - and I truly enjoy a little subtlety. There was plenty of that! Thread after thread after thread you can follow.

And it all takes place in Eastern Germany! I didn't actually realize it at the time, though. I thought the three old farts (one of whom is Schultze) who had been forced into early retirement were coal miners (even though their retirement gift of a lamp made from a large salt crystal didn't make sense). Turns out they were workers in a salt mine. Somewhere in the Saxony Anhalt.

After seeing the movie, observations kept popping into my mind for several days. The retirees, who get zip from their employer, really, ride bicycles. A younger person, a waitress, drives a not bad car. Some sort of comment on the fall of Communism? There is a thread of younger folk serving time in mundane jobs, while their dreams are much more grandiose.

I have to see the movie again to figure out what Schultze was doing with his garden gnomes. You see him cleaning them up (bored out of his gourd) and later there is a short segment (on TV) about something involving garden gnomes. This probably ties in with scenes where he is towing something in a bicycle trailer, but you never know what. The load seemed about that size. He may have placed the garden gnomes somewhere that would embarrass the mining company.

Well, I am getting bogged down in minutia. Schultze is bored with retired life and accidentally hears some Zaydeco (while turning the radio off a warning about lung cancer in miners). He can't get it out of his mind and, even though his friends don't really care for the sound, persists in trying to play the tune he heard.

His music verein sends him to the States for a Folk Music get together, but Schultze watches a few of the earlier acts and realizes he is strictly amateur. He appropriates a little boat and heads out into the bayou country with his very few words of English, but transparent good will and gets close to the soul of the music he has heard. He has really broken out of his shell, and yet, dies in his early 60s just as his father did.

But he has spread the seed. His funeral music, back home,  shows a bit of a Zaydeco beat.

There is a lot more going on in this movie, but it would take many more words to try to get it across. There are symbols galore and the photography is lyrical. Best bet is to see it. You will either love it or hate it, I suppose. I see much to like.