Ever since I was a little kid, I watched scary movies. One of my favorites when I was around 13 or 14 was F.W. Murnau's "Nosferatu: A Symphony of Horror," a little silent film that managed to scare the unholy Hell out of me. It was a poorly-scored copy of the movie from one of those 50-pack DVD box-sets of "The Greatest Horror Movies Ever Made," and it was my favorite out of all of them. Orlok (Dracula) and Hutter (Harker) were great characters that lit up the silver screen in a way I'd never seen before.

What seems like an eternity later, now in my mid-20s, I discovered that Werner Herzog, the man who made the documentary "Grizzly Man" (Which I was a big fan of!) had previously directed a remake of Murnau's silent classic, with the original character names from Bram Stoker's novel reinstalled to their rightful players. Needless to say, this movie is like "The Shining" meets "Dracula," it's a slow-paced, but visually overwhelming and delightful film full of fun and scares that will entertain horror fans of all ages.

But I won't waste time telling you the story, I'll let you buy the DVD and judge for yourself what you think of the film.

I will tell you about the DVD itself, instead. This DVD contains two disks, one with the movie "Nosferatu: The Vampyre," which is the English version of the film, and the other with "Nosferatu: Phantom Der Nacht," the German version of the film. They're basically the same movie, only the scenes with dialogue were filmed twice, once in English and once in German. Which version of the film you like better is up to you, personally, I prefer the English version of the film, because I find the German accents to add a nice touch to the film, plus I can understand it without reading subtitles. There are some great special features on disk two, which I have yet to check out, but all in all, I'd say this movie is worth your money. It's a timeless remake of a timeless classic, and totally unforgettable.

Scary, thoughtful and well made-- everything a horror film should be.