When I was 14 years along in life &amp; love, before my perilous journey through both began, my mother decided that I was adult enough to appreciate "staying up late" to learn the joys of real &amp; great  movie-making &amp; the icons of the acting profession. Of course, back in  "those days", you could only find a masterpiece of cinema from  the Golden age on in the wee hours...but you could always find them, and  more than one station played them. Now, we are subjected to infomercials  instead of a classic black/white 1940's war film for the sake of revenue.  As a young child, I often rebelled at suggestions from my Mother concerning  reading material- she had quite a library of this 'n that..but being  stubborn, I didn't want to make what I thought would be a wasted effort to  get involved in one of these boredom-laden tomes. They had dull-sounding  titles- The Prophet-K. Gibran, Andersonville (a civil war POW camp),  Bartlett's Book Of Quotations, Anything Can Happen-G. Papishvily, Gone with  The Wind-M. Mitchell, to name a few. To my embarrassment to this very day,  I must admit I did not get around to reading GwTW until I was 81/2 (1961  June) simply because of a hurricane that blew close enough to scare me from  leaving the house for two days. I nearly drove my Mother mad, she would  only suggest "find something to read"...at my whining  "there's nothing to do" So- I went to the bookshelf &amp; looked-  at this HUGE book- dirty, old &amp; somewhat odiferous after actually  opening the thing- the one Mother had been trying to sell me on for what  seemed like forever. Okay. I 'll try..Truly bored!  Never having forgiven  Mother for not threatening me w/ some really imaginative form of torture,  (involving insects, maybe..) for not making me, at least, read the first 10  pages of this most wonderful of classical stories, (Actually, I think I was  hooked on the first page) I am ready to admit that afterward when my Mother  said I should listen &amp; learn about classic books &amp; movies made in  the late 30's-mid-40's, I did just that with a vengeance. I have, forever,  loved planes, my favorite plane is the B-17- More than that, the 3.5 years  we spent fighting &amp; 2.5+ flying those B-17s over Germany &amp; other  wartime enemy territory, should be made a course of it's own in grade  school- 6th grade, perhaps. The country was never at its best as it was for  those 3.5 years. The early war brought our country to its knees for a  moment in 1941-1942, but you would never have known by the people. The  country joined the cause of freedom w/ Europe- the British were bombed out  of their homes night after night, the French had been defeated and had  given over to the enemy. All the low countries were also under the grip of  fear, along w/ most of Scandinavia.  To see the movie casablanca is to  experience &amp; learn along w/ just enjoying. It is impossible to come out  of that movie for the first time, &amp; not want to KNOW MORE! I have a 25  yr old friend who had not a clue about rationing in WWII. I have met her  Mother &amp; Dad- they SEEM normal..how could they have let their daughter  miss out on the history of not only our country, but of her own family and  its role during that most wonderful of American eras? An excellent way to  do that would be to make them watch Bogie as he walks into Rick's w/ that  white dinner jacket &amp; an attitude we'll never forget..Who can't  remember all the famous lines,  and if we're honest, who can't help saying  them along w/ Rick &amp; Ilse.."Here's looking..Hill of  Beans"..and all the rest inbetween. It is easy for us all to say we  are patriotic, just watch Paul Heinreid have enough courage to lead the  cafe in the most moving movie song I have ever seen- the Marseilles-against  the Nazi officers who try  unsuccessfully  to drown out the French anthem  w/ their own. By the end of that emotionally charged scene, you can not  help but be curious- maybe because today we cannot imagine ourselves  becoming involved in a war of that scope. Todays wars last a day or so-  there w/ never be another Pearl Harbor- Yes, we may well be attacked  somewhere in the world &amp; lose thousands of soldiers in a nuclear or  perhaps biological attack, but I know I would never see 75% of Americas'  male population run, not walk, to the nearest recruiting center to join  whatever he could -that's how it was in Dec. of '41.  Casablanca was a  fairy tale but it wasn't- a beautiful love story that just happens to be  set in one of the most exciting &amp; atrocious times ever in our history.  For those of you who have not experienced this classic, there is, as usual,  a twist at the end that sums up the state of mind of  America and left no  doubt as to who would come out on top in the end. Remembering also, this  movie was released very near the bombing of Pearl Harbor so it struck a  chord in the country.  Who can explain why a movie that was written  day-by-day &amp; w/ actors who had no idea where the story was going, would  turn out to be so successful then? How about now? Why?  Story, Actors,  Acting, Patriotism, Realism, Emotion, Sex, Violence, Music, great  editing....  It would be far more interesting than you might think to  watch a teenager, or younger preferably, watch this movie w/ you &amp; see  the child become as enthralled w/ the times &amp; the movie as you have  been. More doors open up for the whole family to learn about each other if  we just start somewhere. Yeah, they're black &amp; white, but just give 'em  a try- you just might learn something!