While growing up I've watched alot of fabulous movies comedies, action movies, and of course horror (the majority of which were way better than what's been coming out in the past 10 years!) And needless to say "The Howling is definitly one of those such enduring classics! What's clever about The Howling is the way by which it starts out fooling you into thinking it's a crime drama only to give you that false sense of security that the character Eddie Quist(Robert Picardo) is dead! To say nothing of him ending up actually being a werewolf! Very clever!! Who knew?! And just when Dee Wallace's beautiful news reporter character gets advice from her therapist(masterfully played by Patrick Macnee) to go to some kind of retreat or something she eventually learns that nothing and no one is as it/they seem(s) when she runs afoul with not only Eddie Quist but a whole culture of other werewolves as well! What in particularly makes this movie a masterpiece is its usage of fog,darkness,suspense, and needless to say some really awesome werewolf transformation effects the likes by which have barely been topped by anyone elses efforts!! To say the least this movie proves great nastalgia for me and reminds me of not only a superior GOLDEN AGE of movies but what was greatly possible effects and storytelling wise in the pre-digital age. I will say it is a shocker to think that actor Robert Picardo who is usually a comedic "goofball" could not only be an evil monster but also pull it off so seemlessly! I have fond memories of him as Coach Cutlip on the Wonder Years! I can't say that I could see that much about this movie that was funny however. I admit the little children musing over Dee Wallace's changing into a werewolf on the news to say nothing of her ending up looking like a female Wookiee always gives me a great guffaw though! All I'm saying is if you're a big 80's horror fan as well as a big werewolf movie fan than The Howling is a must see! PS if you love The Howling then also check out The Howling parts 2,3,5&6 and An American Werewolf in London,An American Werewolf in Paris, and Skin Walkers!