I have just seen this film again & was so impressed that I read every one of the 68 reviews about it on this site.  I'm not sure if I can add anything not already said by the generally wonderful reviews, so I won't go over the plot, theme, acting, directing, political, economic, sociological dynamics, etc., that were talked about quite adequately by the reviewers; but here are some feelings / thoughts / beliefs as I experience them:

What can one say about a film that literally takes one's breath away by searing one's lungs with the intensity of its impact as a very young man of perhaps 20 years old & then all over again almost 40 years later?  Its imagery is indelibly etched in my fore-conscious with the impact of a sledge hammer right between the eyes.  Not only is its impact not less intense, it's just the opposite; I was even more riveted this time than during the original viewing.  I was even more thrown up against the wall by its pull into the very vortex of the struggle for `meaningful existence'. It took hold of my blood & guts as a `youthful idealist' & again as a `burnt out cynic'. It solidifies why Vittorio De Sica is revered as one of the all time greatest directors of cinema.

In my mind, this film is one of the defining moments in cinema that has become the bar that all films aspiring to be considered 'great' must compare themselves with. While not a professional film critic, film is a 'meaning making magnet' in some magical manner that I have been irresistibly drawn to 'forever'.  In that context, for me, this film has obtained the status of the very best ever created. It is within that elite grouping of a handful of films that I cannot imagine could ever have been better in any way.

The fact that I am babbling like an ogling groupie is a testimony to the adoration I have for this esteemed masterwork. I'll leave it at that. This is one of the core `must see' films of all time! It is literally extraordinary & truly superlative.

As for the 2 out of 68 reviewers who did not care for it: they indicated that there was not enough `action' to sustain their interest. It's my belief that most of the really important `action' takes place `between the ears' & most films never capture that fundamental reality. I believe that they have unfortunately missed a whole universe of meaning somehow.