So here's a little review for the 2nd blu-ray of the film available worldwide (to my knowledge):

First off, let me say I do have a bit of a comparison, as I do own many different DVDs (and one BR) from all over the world (Germany, Italy, South Korea, to name but a few), with the best quality / content ones so far having been Warner's special edition.

Incidentally, I just recently bought the Germany version BR released by Kinowelt, which, I must say, really is NOT worth the buy. Not only does the already mentioned special edition have way more content and includes the original English language version, but also is the quality of the transfer on the DVD superior. Which makes Kinowelt's BD easily one of the most forgettable BDs released so far, so be warned. Will they continue to give BD a bad name?

As to the BD I am reviewing here (<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004YCKJ74">The Name of the Rose [Blu-ray</a>]), there is no doubt for me it is the best quality version of the film that has been available to the general public so far. It certainly still is not what you would expect from a film shot with state-of-the-art equipment, but that said, it probably doesn't get much better than this. Film grain really is reasonable, as someone else stated before, and only in very few scenes the general quality gets really bad, which generally is when we get to see mist/fog and/or the skies, i.e. greyish or bluish tones. Then it get so bad and off-beatedly disappointing, that I slowly suspect this must be a persisting error in the algorithm of the software used for the conversion to BD, an error that seems to have been passed on from the DVD format, as it already existed there.

GOOD NEWS for non region A/1 residents is that the BD appears to be REGIONLESS, I did however not have to switch regions!

Since the cover of the blu-ray simply leaves out all the info that does not regard the three most common languages of North America, here's some extra info on the languages/subs included with the main feature:

DTS-HD 5.1 master audio:

English

Dolby Digital 2 CH:

French
Italian
Czech
Hungarian
Polish

Dolby Digital mono:

Spanish

Subtitles included are for the following languages:

English
French
Italian
Castellano
Dutch
Portugues (Brazil)
Czech
Danish
Finnish
Hungarian
Norwegian
Polish
Portuguese
Swedish

Sorry, no Russian (which would probably be voiceover) or German language, the inclusion of these seem to be reserved for yet another release. Maybe Warner could do something about the annoying GREYISH/BLUEISH-PROBLEM in the meantime? That would be much appreciated, indeed.

I wonder if the companies will ever start to release the bonus material in HD as well? Particularly with the German/Austrian TV documentary included here, this would have been very interesting, especially for somewone like me who went to see the place (Kloster Eberbach in Germany) where most of the interior scenes were shot. Go there if you like the film and get a chance to, it really is worth it!

As to the rating it would been a 4 1/2 if that existed, but I just couldn't give it a 5 star rating.

A little side-note on a DVD-version that really made me laugh when I first watched it: The ITALIAN one. There, the scene where a little scuttle of the abbey opens and vegetable leftovers are poured down the mountain with the miserable peasants fighting over them and William commenting "another generous donation of the church to the poor" IS CENSORED, in fact very badly cut out (you can almost feel the anger of the cutter!). Taken what the book/film is all about, this makes it a truly contradictory release, if not a contradictory in terms release. How much bigottry is there in this world?

Btw, can anyone tell me, why Amazon by default includes reviews of DVDs with the BDs and even if there are BD reviews, hides them? The way it is that what's most important regarding BDs for the time being is the sound/picture quality, I do find it rather annoying to continually be presented with reviews that are of now no concern for me, to say the least. Even having no reviews at all, would be preferrable! At least less confusing...