The underlying premise of this film, that of a troubled young man(Pattinson) who is arrested and roughed up by an overboard police detective and then proceeds to meet and date the policeman's daughter(Ravin) is the type of premise that makes for a standard romantic comedy. In Remember me, it merely the backdrop of a more complex character study of people and how they deal with loss and tragedy.

In fact, this artificial drama nearly derails what was an otherwise well-made and well-acted drama. Lena Olin and Pierce Brosnin play Tyler's divorced parents and Chris Cooper plays Tyler's the policeman father of Ally. I must also acknowledge the young, but very gifted Ruby Jerins, who plays Tyler's troubled little sister Caroline (Ruby has a regular role as the oldest daughter on Nurse Jackie).

The film begins with the intense murder of Ally's Mom, before her very eyes at the age of eleven. Shortly after this, we are introduced to Tyler, a womanizing, drinking and ultimately angry young man who is still troubled by the suicide of his older brother almost seven years ago. This is the backdrop of Remember Me that we are presented with, with most of the story told through the eyes of and the focus on Tyler.

Pattinson and Ravin seem to generate a solid amount of chemistry and manage to sound remarkably American, given that one is English and the other is from Australia. Their performances are solid, with Pattinson doing his trademark dark and brooding performance which will undoubtedly remind many of his more familiar Twilight character. Emilie de Ravin is quite fetching as the love interest and manages to portray an interesting and complex young lady, the type that made me wish I had a woman like her to fall in love with.

Despite the artificial drama created by the bet/set-up, I found Remember me to be fairly endearing film that didn't have me constantly checking to see how long the movie had left before it was over. What I am about to discuss next is a total spoiler, so be warned:

Spoiler Alert

While it was surprising and shocking, the whole 9-11 plot device, I must say I felt it was cheap. I am not certain that even now in 2010, almost 10 years later, that I am ready for 9-11 to be used so blatantly as a dramatic plot device. I think that if Tyler's character needed to die as a plot device, that there were a hundred better scenarios. I would have even liked to have seen him get killed trying to defend Ally or something else that felt plausible in the world of these characters. Some will find this ending poignant and I realize that perhaps many folks won't have an issue with the 9-11 usage, so I guess to each their own. For me, this and the other "bet" plot device conspired to keep this movie from a higher rating, but it was worth the Amazon rental.