The Twilight Zone - Great Neck New York -1988

You are about to enter the Twilight Zone. A middle-aged computer teacher is caught by a postal inspector with kiddy porn, and is accused of molesting young boys in his classes.  He copes a plea and is sent to jail as a child molester for 10 to 30 years. He commits suicide in jail so that his branded son can at least collect the life insurance to live on.  His 18-year-old son is also accused of the crimes and does 13 years.

No tangible evidence is found of the alleged attacks. The teacher has been teaching computer skills and giving piano lessons for years in Great Neck, an affluent community where no one in the community has ever filed any complaints against the teacher or his son.

An ambitious detective in charge of the Sex Crimes Unit sends out detectives to prove that something must have been going on there.  The over zealous detectives make many visits to children who attended the classes and get confessions from some that they were molested. It was found that the visits extended for as much as 15 times for one child. The parents were never allowed to be present at the interviews.  Interview techniques included threats, favors, and scare tactics.

This information solicits guilty pleas from the father and son, or else they could spend the rest of their lives in jail. The Judge tells the defense attorney that if the son's case goes to trial and he is convicted she will give consecutive sentences for each count. The townspeople or at least the parents of the alleged victims are up in arms. The trial would be held locally, so the father and son were between a rock and a hard place.

The Judge is a friend of the detective in charge of the Sex Crimes Unit, whose husband just happens also to be a judge in the county. The Judge agrees to appear in the movie about the case and states that  "there was never a doubt in my mind as to guilt". The Judge and the Sex Crimes head both go to the opening of the movie in Manhattan.

This is a tale of ambition, incompetence, vanity, ignorance, and just plain bad luck.  Beware. It will haunt you.

And - You definitely should see disks one and two - and at least twice.