My, oh my!  I just watched this movie the second time in four days and boy, did it rock!  Mmm ... let me count the number of times I cheered heartily during this movie (don't read if you don't want any spoilers):
1. Nightcrawler teleporting in and out, to and fro, again and again, during his attack on the Oval Office!  I couldn't have imagined that scene being done any better.  In the wrong hands, a teleporting mutant would have looked about as convincing as Scotty beaming up Captain Kirk.
2. Dr. Hank McCoy!  Despite hopes being crushed that the Beast will be a main character in X2, the lovable amazing blue furry mutant still managed to make a small cameo in his human guise as the good doctor.
3. Wolverine going into his berserker rage during Stryker's raid on the X-Mansion!  NO ONE could have been a better Wolverine than Hugh Jackman, despite the fact that he is a foot taller than the Wolverine in the comics.
4. Colossus suiting up in his steel-armor!  Whoa!  I wish he had a bigger role in X2, but I'm sure there will always be X3.
5. Kitty Pryde passing through her bed and then through the bedroom floor!  Siryn's earth-shattering scream!  Still, X2 missed letting Jubilee (the Asian girl) do her stuff to defend the X-Mansion during the raid.  In the comics, she was a gutsy and independent girl who would have done her best to confound the raiders.
6. Pyro going psycho!  Way hot scene for the way cool hothead.
7. Storm finally gets to show who's the boss.  Twisters galore!  Halle Berry finally gets to sink her teeth into her role as the white-haired weather goddess.  
8. Magneto and Mystique save the day!  When was the last time you cheered for the VILLAINS?  Ian McKellen is simply amazing as the flawed and vulnerable but nevertheless evil Magneto.
9. Jean Grey versus Cyclops! Wolverine versus Lady Deathstrike!  Professor X versus mind-controlling evil mutant!  Climatic battles worthy of Star Wars movies!
10. Final scenes possibly setting the pace for X3: The Dark Phoenix Saga!  (X-Men neophytes might like to know that in the comics, Jean Grey eventually became the immensely powerful and destructive cosmic entity known as the Dark Phoenix - it took all of the X-men's might to stop her path of destruction across the galaxy.  If Bryan Singer is planning to make his own version of the Dark Phoenix Saga, I'll be jumping up and down with joy.)
Need I say more?  Bryan Singer, bring on X3!!