My little boy, Finn, who is 3, has taken to waking up in the middle of the night and the only thing that will get him down again is Toy Story, so I have seen this every night for the last 6 months, and I still love it, in fact as an adult, I went to the cinema to see it without kids! Of course, there are many plotting inaccuracies. How come the Toys have never been caught moving? Their early warning system seems a little hap-hazard to say the least. And when Scud the dog is pulling Woody off the back of the removal truck, the loading ramp would have to be about 5 feet off the ground making Scud the size of a Shetland pony! And when they light the rocket, it is unlikely that Woody would be able to steer RC because of the small size of the wheels compared to the thrust applied, and when Woody falls limp in the petrol station as the big tanker arrives, the wheel that nudges up against him is not the front wheel, but one of the rear wheels on the tractor unit, he would have been crushed by that stage. And why didn't the truck driver or the car drivers at the end see the toys and report it to the press? And surely RC would have been thrown away by Andy as Woody drops the remote control in the road when the battery runs out, and RC would be no-good without a remote. And how come some toys speak and some don't, and how does Lenny speak, he has no mouth? And how come Mr Potatohead never loses any of his parts that drop off all of the time? And anyone who has ever played the drop and grab games that Buzz and Woody are "won" by Sid in know that the air displaced by a cruising jetliners 36,000 feet overhead will displace anything you manage to pick up, so Woody would have been able to pull Buzz free easily. And when Sid's toys pop out the light housing in the porch to lower Duckie to ring the bell, the hole is too small to get the fitting back in again. And when Buzz falls out of the window, why doesn't he just stand in the drive and wave up saying he is ok? And what happens to the paratroopers that drop off the landing at the start, when the other troops abseil down the skipping rope, they have gone. And why should Woody have a Laser? He is a cowboy!
Some people ("Johnny One-Stars", I call them) will believe the above comments are serious.

As you can see, I have seen this film too many times, and seriously, I love it. Suitable for kids from 2 to 102. Mind you, my granny is 103 and I couldn't recommend it for her since I persuaded her that the Nirvana lyric, "can you feel my love buzz" was been sung by Woody and it ruined it for her. I fear she sees Woody and Buzz in a remake of Brokeback Mountain and that's just too much!