I was more than pleasantly surprised with the overall quality of this DVD. I'm not going to say much about the movie: if you haven't seen one of the best movies (and arguably the best in the genre) ever made, you've missed a classic, so go see it. 
The DVD offers superb image quality. The colors and sharpness are excellent, the image pristine, like it was shot yesterday instead of some 35 years ago. These days too many DVD's contain a simple copy of whatever master the producers happened to have lying around, with faded colors, grain, noise, scratches and everything. This DVD is an example of how it should be done: apparently starting with a good vault copy, the producers have removed dust, scratches and noise, and not just with an automatic filter that blurs all details. The colors have apparently been restored, being very close to what they originally were. Just don't expect too much of the 5.1 surround sound, but there are limites to what remixing can do.
The extra's are well worth watching, too, for a change. Normally I'm very much underwhelmed by the shovelware most producers fill up their empty disk space with. The first DVD contains the movie with additional commentaries, the second DVD contains documentaries about the film and the history against which the story is set, and these actually add something worthwhile to the experience of watching and re-watching the movie. A refreshing change after too many DVD's with so-called extra's that consist of a "making of" that's little less than a promo, and a theater trailer. And the extra's are in widescreen format too, something that is also sadly lacking from most other DVDs. Generally the feature movie is in widescreen format, but the extra are invariably either in 4x3 format or, if you're lucky, letterboxed. Heaven knows why... but on this DVD the producers haven't made the same mistake.
It's quite good to see a properly mastered and produced DVD for a change. This is the way it should be done!
(Oh, and if you haven't seen the movie... really, you've missed something important. Enough said.)