I saw Ocean's Eleven only recently, and I was completely blown away by it. Only a few scenes in, I told myself that I must own a copy of this movie, and everything I saw after that only reinforced that conviction
But I'm more than a little baffled by all of the negative reviews people have posted here. Having read maybe half of them, I have one thing I'd really like to say to everyone who's coming to give this movie a low rating because the plot is thin, shallow and/or unbelievable:
THIS IS A CAPER MOVIE. 
The joy of a caper movie is watching the characters' plan take one wild turn after another, a tangled network of nifty gadgets, daring near-misses, hair-trigger timing, and ballsy cons, all the while slinging one-liners and picking fights with the villain and/or each other. There's no point in watching a caper movie for its deep, thoughtful, realistic plot, because it doesn't have one. What it has is style, wit, flash and sparkle, easygoing camaraderie, a sense of glorious immaturity in its thrills, and the sort of sharp left turns that, if you're in the proper spirit of the thing, should have you sitting straight up in your chair yelling gleefully at the screen, "NO WAY!"
Ocean's Eleven has that. The heist plan loops in and out and around itself so many times expressly to allow for multiple fake-outs and to keep the watcher guessing. The whole point of the movie is to have some fun. The cast certainly seems to have done so. With the exception of Julia Roberts, who spends the entire movie seeming stilted and tense, all of the actors contribute to the movie's charisma. On the DVD's actor commentary from Andy Garcia, Matt Damon, and Brad Pitt, they say that the movie was very laid-back, easy, and fun to film, and it certainly seems that way to watch it.
The rest of the complaints, dealing mostly with pacing and dialogue, seem a matter of taste. Personally, I loved the dialogue, which was frequently delivered with such deadpan wit that what the characters *said* takes you by surprise. I dig the sort of sense of humor that comes up with lines like "They've got enough armed security to occupy Paris!--Okay, bad example," makes Chinese acrobat Yan's single English line "Where the **** you been?", and lets Don Cheadle's character speak in Cockney rhyming slang.
If you want a deep movie, see a drama. Ocean's Eleven is a heist flick; it's all about audacity and flair, and it's got that in spades.