Okay! Okay! It's not Kurosawa! It's not some fantastic hard to locate Samurai classic! It's not worth taking your hand out of your laps and getting out of your mom's basement long enough to go and purchase it!!! However, Mr. or Mrs. Purist, it certainly serves as a decent introduction into the Samurai film genre!!! Before I go any further, here's the lowdown:

Story- It really is "Dances with Wolves" with Samurai! Admittedly, it also reeked (in essence) of Mel Gibson's "Braveheart" and "The Patriot"!! Shogun lite??!! Nevertheless, it still was a good film despite a lack of originality and the usual "clich&eacute;'s" of honor, loyalty, integrity and love. Noticed that I said that it was a GOOD film Mr. and Mrs. Purists, not a great one!!! Its good family fare and I hope will provoke interest in some of the other Samurai films (which usually are poor family fare). In all fairness, it should be stated that the purists are right in the fact that it's not exactly historically accurate and a little more research and a better script would have helped out a lot! 
One issue I would like to address is this racist notion that a "white guy" running around playing Samurai is a "bad" thing. Admittedly, it's not exactly historically kosher but it isn't necessarily a horrible thing. Nevertheless, playing pin the label on the "white guy" isn't exactly kosher either! 
Action- The action sequences are tightly and neatly done. The Samurai fan in me wanted more!!!  I would point out that I did think it a little over the top for Tom Cruise's character to become such a astoundingly formidable Samurai in such a short period of time! It did kind of remind me of the old Tom &amp; Jerry cartoon skits where Tom learns how to "Play the piano in three easy lessons!" and just after hitting three keys he then rips into Chopin!!! Despite this, the fights were still entertaining, just far and few between! Parents should be warned that there is some blood involved but not on the level of "Barveheart".
Acting- This is where the good and the bad comes in. The good was the attractive performance Wantanabe gives. He appears to be enjoying the role and that is always infectious! Hey, Hollywood! Here's the guy for an updated version of "Shogun"! Then, there is Tom. Tom! Tom! Tom! It's not that he's bad in this, he really is not. However, he really didn't fit the role. Most folks won't care and that's not a bad thing but Tom is certainly not Samurai! I couldn't say who would be but I know for certain that it isn't him! The problem really lies at the feet of his celebrity. He's just too well known. Every time he stepped into a scene, his being TOM CRUISE detracted from the moment and his decent performance. I would have to say that a more gruffly someone (the beard didn't sell Tom!) of less renown or an up and comer would have benefited the role a little better. This would have also placed more visual emphasis on a scene as a whole and prevented any celebrity distraction. Yes, Tom! You CAN be too popular for a film's good!!!! Nice try though! 
The other actors gave us fine to solid performances but I'm sure that plenty of other Samurai lovin' "Amazonians" will try and learn us different. 
DVD Quality- Issssss goooood!!! Why on earth anyone would want the full-screen version of such a film is totally beyond me??!!!! Death to full screen!!! Trust me; it's for your own good!! 
Extras- The extras are fairly generous. I know that there will be those who will have demanded more but what more could they really want? I never quite understood the desire in demanding that every film have 4-6 hours of extras. I guess these folks have too much time on their hand (I know what I said)!! I would like to point out that the Hollywood vs. History was a slight let down. Instead of expert analysis, we got a fairly informative and slightly inaccurate historical overview on Samurai history. It would have been nicer to see a discussion between a panel of dusty old scholars rather than the movie promo we get. The rest of the extras are informative if a little on the short side. 
In closing, Last Samurai is good but not a masterpiece but then it's not the master-piece of ca-ca as the purists would have you thinking. It not without it's faults but only after one devours a few of the films listed below will one begin to see what those faults are.
Next!!- Now then, where to go from here. Obviously, there are plenty of fine Samurai films to watch but not all of them are easy to come by. Here is small but decent list:
Older- Difficult to find comes with a *
Seven Samurai
Yojimbo
Sanjuro
Samurai 1, 2 and 3
Chushingura*
Zatoichi (The Japanese T.V. series)
Shogun Assassin*
Sword of Doom*
Tenchu*
47 Ronin*
Kill! (Kiru)*

Newer- Some of these are coming to the theater soon.
Azumi
Zaotoichi (Darkness is my ally)
Zatoichi (Directed by Kitano)
Twiglight Samurai
Samurai Fiction
There are far more but this will get you started. Thanks!!! Pred88