Spoilers:

In the film The Longest Yard, the name Mean Machine represents love and power because their friend the caretaker gave the football team that name and because they wanted to win the game for the caretaker who was killed at the prison.

I did not know a lot about the film. All I knew was that it was a football movie and staring in the movie was Adam Sandler, Nelly who is a rap singer, and some professional wrestlers. I also knew that it was mostly taking place at a prison somewhere.

A thing that I learned from the film that actually might be of some use to me some day is that in a prison if you want to get along you have to go along. The warden used this phrase in the film. In a prison, you also have to trust yourself and no one else because if you go along with the wrong thing instead of saying no, your sentence might be extended. Crew learned this in the film because the warden was trying to get him to throw the game or shave points. He had already done that before, but if he didn't do it, the warden was going to pin the caretakers' death on him. Crew knew that things would work out all right so he still won the game.

Because one of the other inmates who were on the guards' side killed the caretaker, AKA half a star, the players gave their love to the caretaker. The caretaker gave the team uniforms with the name Mean Machine on them, which they all received just before the game against the guards. Caretaker wanted to be there to see the looks on his teammate's faces but he could not because of the way things happened. This is why the phrase Mean Machine showed love. Love was given to the caretaker for all of the things that he did for each one of the players on the football team.

And

Because they all thought they were not going to win, until they remembered their friend, the caretaker, and what he did for them. Therefore, they got their heads up and all of the players got tons of pumping adrenalin power just before the game. They knew that they were going to get back at the guards for the way that they had treated them and what they did to their friend before at the prison. It turned out that they did have enough power and pride to beat the guards. I believe that the name of the team gave them power because they knew that they didn't have to only win it for themselves, but mostly for the person who encouraged them the whole way through training and who gave them uniforms and a name to make them all a real team; this person was the caretaker.

Further more; the events that took place in the movie convinced Crew (Adam Sandler) that he could not shave points twice in his life off a football game. He had a feeling that he was going to be with the rest of the team a lot longer because the warden was going to extend his sentence if he did not loose the game. They all became a family and they won the game.

I wonder if they will have a sequel to this movie like a second season between the

guards and the inmates.