I have to admit, I didn't have high hopes for George Clooney's directorial debut.  A film based on the psychotic "autobiography" of washed up television game show producer extrodinaire Chuck Barris, revealing his secret life as a CIA contract agent seemed to be a recipe for disaster.  Leave it to Charlie Kaufman (Being John Malkovich, Adaptation), sans make-believe twin brother Donald, to create a script so rich with dementia that even Barris himself would be proud.  Clooney takes the script and runs with it, and cinematographer Newton Thomas Sigel (who I insist must be an alias of Soderberg's, considering their stylistic likeness) and Sam Rockwell's Chuck Barris keep up the pace (and utter mahem) quite nicely.
As with all of Kaufman's other screenplays, the audience experiences the rollercoaster of the lead character's psychosis, which Kaufman is truly the master of representing in words.  Until Confessions, I don't feel as though any director or cinematographer has truly captured the visuals of Kaufman's mental madness more effectively than Clooney and Sigel.  I always thought Terry Gilliam and Kaufman would be a perfect pair considering their similar tendencies toward artist psychosis.  Quite possibly because of this, I noticed several similarities between Confessions and Gilliam's Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.
This is not a film for the average Clooney fans, since it will probably leave them scratching their heads just like Soderberg's Solaris did.  Though, at least Confessions does not feature Clooney's naked rear as the center of its mainstream hype, in fact it lacks any mainstream hype at all.  This is true indie, art house quality, with stylistic (bordering on experimental) editing and cinematography.  It all seems so fabricated, just like the story, despite its use of documentary interviews (which appear less real than the narrative elements) and found footage.
The Gong Show, Dating Game and Newleywed Show footage bring back all my childhood television memories of growing up in the 1970's.  Confessions is obviously a medium for a critique of U.S. television standards, which haven't changed much since the days of Chuck Barris.  U.S. television is still obsessed with its working class culture making fools of themselves on television.  We've even taken this to a new level of being "entertained" by "real" (usually lower class) people being chased and arrested on prime time television.  And who watches this stuff?  Generally the same class of people appearing on screen.  How sick is that?  According to Confessions, we only have Chuck Barris to blame for "lowering the bar."  My only criticism is that Confessions is only preaching to the choir.  Its art house, intellectual mentality will make it unapproachable and uncomprehendable for the people that really need to watch and learn, the U.S. working class.  Even the best of directors have this problem (Soderberg for example, except for Erin Brokavich which did appeal to the working class audience thanks to Julia Roberts) so I don't hold this against Clooney.  
Confessions is a movie that would make his past directors, namely Soderberg and the Coen Brothers, proud.  Clooney has obviously learned a lot about directing from his acting career, and untilizes everything effectively while creating his own distinct style.  Other actors turned directors should watch and learn.