I can't remember exactly what prompted me to buy this DVD, but it its first five minutes left quite an impression.  For those who have seen it, that is, of course, "The Speech".  For medical reasons beyond my control, I was not able to stay in the Army (15 Oct 1997 -- 15 Jan 1998, MOS 11M [would-be]), but those first few minutes made me want to jump back in and kill every damned terrorist on this planet, because everything he said about the "Hun" could be said about fighting the "Arab" and the "Persian" equally.

The last line of the speech proper, the visualization of his troops' firesides 30 years from now, is quite possibly the most important line of the film.  It gives a view, albeit only  microscopic, of his command of history, and how he lived, ate, slept, and breathed the history of his profession, and was able to understand the propensity of the occasion as it was happening.

The only other two parts that compete with it also lift, for a few short moments, the veil of the past.

The first is the scene at what I would guess Patton and Bradley were at Zama (among the runins after Patton orders the driver off the beaten path), where the Roman Scipio Africanus beat the more famous Hannibal, in what was probably the most important battle for the Romans, republic or empire, where, even though I don't believe in reincarnation, his clearer-than-crystal view of the past makes it hard not to.

The second is the end scene as he walks out in the meadow with "Willie".  The monologue is so picturesque that, were I to fall asleep during that scene, and I woke up later, I would probably be looking for my sword and fumbling around in my chair looking for the reins of a chariot.

Among the most well-done scenes were those done with Capt. Steiger, the Nazi officer assigned to research Patton.  He, better than anyone except for Scott, conveyed the Patton "mystique" in this film.  His best scenes were warning Col-General Jodl that Patton would attack Sicily (because the Athenians did in the Peloponnesian War, and the final scene in the command post, where Patton's picture is burned, and he is bid a fond farewell as the "Pure Warrior".  If this latter scene actually happened somewhere in the doldrums of the Nazi regime, it is pure prophecy, because the absence of war ultimately did kill him inside, to the point that it was almost a good thing that he died when he did, so that his legend was cemented.

While this film was worth the six stars we have bestowed on General Washington, it is not beyond reproach.

Part of the problem is Bradley's influence.  I respect Bradley, and I loved his comment about Monty's proposed "dagger thrust" (Bradley likened it more to a "butter knife thrust"), but I don't think that Bradley's and Patton's friendship was always as amicable as is put forth in the show.  Patton's and Ike's relationship was also a bit better than portrayed.  There's also the glaring omission of any discussion about FDR before his death. More than any adverse relationship between Patton and Bradley, I think these scenes were just a matter of Bradley not fully understanding what Patton was about.  As is said in the movie, Bradley does his job because he is trained to do it; Patton does his because he loves it (l'audace, l'audace, toujours l'audace!).  That one was probably correct, and a good explanation.

The only thing that angered me about the movie was that, at times, Patton is portrayed as a micromanager or a figurehead.  The most glaring display of this, is his return out of the doghouse, before he gets 3rd Army, and he is shown just riding around in a jeep, with a big grin on his face; he was much more than that.

Any who have had the honor of knowing a former 3rd Army soldier, or even one from  II Corps or 7th Army, know that other soldiers will give their unit, whereas soldiers in those Armies or that Corps, when Patton commanded, will almost invariably say "I was with Patton."  Not only that, on the way to a church service project one time, I was reading a summary of 20 decisive battles, and that morphed into a conversation where one of my friends said the same exact words...about his uncle.  Patton's influence is one that will be felt long after we have gone the way of the dodo bird, and no general that just sits in a jeep can have that kind of effect.

The only glaring inaccuracy in the film is at the speech.  No, the editing of the language was done for the general public; he generally would only cuss profusely in front of his troops.  He was only a Lieutenant General (3 stars) at the time of "The Speech."

Other than these slight criticisms, it is a perfect movie.  The music, especially the theme music, is also perfect.  Again, six stars.