I first saw Frequency the day it was released in theatres, after I saw a preview that got me extremely interested in the movie. I didn't know quite what to expect, but what I found was well written movie, with excellent acting performances and a very gripping storyline, a truly enjoyable moviegoing experience. The story focuses on a cop named John Sullivan (played brilliantly by James Caviezel in a breakthrough big screen performance) who lives in Queens, NY in early October 1999, which happens to be the date of an appearance of a phenomenon that allows John to communicate with his father Frank (with a very solid and emotional performance from Dennis Quaid), on the same radio, in the same house. The interesing part is that John talks to Frank thirty years earlier, merely days before Frank, a firefighter, dies herocially trying to rescue a person trapped in a blazing fire. Frank and John end up making catastrophic changes in the timeline, which leads to the brutal murder of John's mother(in an excellent performance from Elizabeth Mitchell) only days later in 1969. The movie is really a combination of several different elements. First of all it focuses on a father-son relationship between Frank and John. The interaction between Caviezel and Quaid is superb, and leads to some of the films most emotionally moving moments. The emotion is skillfully achieved, as Caviezel and Quaid don't act face-to-face, but across a HAM radio. The interplay between the two time periods really adds to the movie without overshadowing the its story. Frequency also combines elements of suspense, action, mystery, and tense drama. Frequency covers all of the bases, and does so very skillfully. This brings us to the DVD disc itself, which comes from New Line Home Video, who completely loaded the disc with a huge amount of special features, including many interesting DVD-ROM features that can be accessed by any PC with a DVD-ROM drive and PC Friendly installed. If you don't have PC Friendly on your computer, the DVD will install it for you if you so choose. The disc also has deleted scenes, as well as several feature legnth commentaries(by the director, producer, and actor Noah Emmerich who plays the adult Gordo, John's best friend). The disc also includes an interesting original documentary, as well as a trailer and animation galleries. If you are are willing to let your mind go a little bit to accept the science of the storyline, it actually becomes a fascinating part of the movie. This movie would definitely be a worthy addition to any DVD collection. Frequency also offers an extremely exciting and rewarding finale that will not disappoint anyone who watches it. The bottom line is this: Frequency is a wonderful movie, with incredibly strong emotional performances from the entire cast, very moving dramatic moments, as well as tense, gripping action sequences, and a rousing finale. Frequency is definitely one to remember. This movie truly has it all!