In an age when Hollywood (particularly--but not limited to--televised Hollywood)churns out script after script that was written in five minutes by a group of apparent hacks, this film excels for a number of reasons.  We  have before us an ambitious project, one that attempts to amalgamate a  number of disparate Arthurian, medieval legends into a cohesive whole, and  present it in a watchable three-hour film. A daunting task, but 'Merlin'  succeeded with aplomb. It even dared to be so bold as to be ORIGINAL.  'Merlin' presented its own view of the myth: making our wizard a very  human, regretful, yet approachable character; elevating the shadowy figure  of the legendary Queen Mab to highlight the Paganism Vs. Christianity saga;  brushing aside Lancelot and Guenivere as incidental adulterers(a fine  dismissal, if you ask me, and a brave move); preserving the centrality of  Arthur; emphasizing the threat of Mordred; making the love between Nimue  and Merlin central to the tale. This film WAS, after all, entitled  'Merlin.' The script was fine in every facet; never brilliant, but never  stilted, and imbued with RESPECT for the mood of mythology and the average  viewer's sensibilities. It was thoroughly accessible and elegant, never  degenerating into the triteness that disfigures so many films. The  performances were very worthy, indeed, and never over-the-top. Sam Neill  was quite competent as Merlin (nothing more), Miranda Richardson was  spectacular as Mab (this is a real triumph, in a role that other actors  could have easily turned into a piece of pure Hickory Farms Ham), Martin  Short was an absolute joy and robbed of an Emmy for a marvelous performance  as Frick...never muddying the character with slapstick or lack of grace,  despite his costuming. Issabella Rosselini was a delight as Nimue. The  effects were marvelous and appropriately scattered throughout the story.  Cinematography was spell-binding and haunting in most cases. This was, all  in all, a thoroughly enchanting venture in every way. For packing so much  legend into three hours running time, the creators of 'Merlin' have done a  job that will resonate with far more people than the equally fine (but  dated) Excalibur ever shall. It seems that the peole bothered most by this  film are purists who mistake their pre-conceived notions about Arthurian  legend as being Biblically infallible tenets. The truth is, the seminal  legends were notoriously complex and pliant, and there is really nothing  technical or substantial to criticize about 'Merlin': not script, not  cinematography, not perfomance, not effects. It is quality film-making in  every fasion. Naysayers may wish to reconsider, or conjure up "a  clue," as they say. Four Big Shooting Stars.