I am amazed at the mixed reviews this movie has garnered. Its really not that bad and is actually watchable and definitely enjoyable. ATL chronicles the life of four black men, Rashad(T.I.), Esquire(Jason Long), Brooklyn(Albert Daniels) and Teddy(Jason Weaver) and their growing up in Atlanta, Georgia.

The acting is good and nobody is given in to fits of outrageous overacting in this movie. T.I and the rest of the cast act just like the laid back residents of Atlanta Georgia without coming out forced. Big Boi was better here than he was in Idlewild and Mykelti Williamson was better here than he was in Forrest Gump.

Brief Spoilers: Rashad knows that his little brother "Jellybean"(Evan Ross)is headed down the wrong path after catching him riding in the car with a local drug dealer(played by Big Boi of Outkast). He also has problems when he finds out that his gorgeous girlfriend, New New(Lauren London) lies about being loaded(believe it or not people have done stranger things than that).

ATL has heart, is genuinely funny. It is also easy to follow and the characters(especially Rashad and his crew) are all likeable. Also T.I. and Lauren London make a good looking couple on screen. The chemistry between each character is not forced and the people in this movie actually talk to each other with a sense of civility without acting like crazed pitbulls on heroin. This movie might not address important issues in society but its not over the top ignorant and stereotypical like John Singleton's 2001 blooperfest(no names needed, you know what "movie" I'm talking about) I'll watch this movie over that monstrosity anyday because I feel at ease when Im watching ATL and I dont feel like Im being bombarded with wacky stereotypes and overacting. Just people that are misundertood and are trying to make sense of the situations they are given. This movie is strongly recommended to the crowd that rather see black people act like normal people and not like crazed jackals(like these brainless hood flicks that come out every month have them doing).
Two thumbs up indeed.