Schindler's List is my favorite historical drama of all-time for a number of reasons. Not only is it a masterpiece from a cinematic point of view, but it is priceless for the story it tells to the world. 
First of all,  the acting is superb. Liam Neeson does well as Oskar Schindler, but in  particular I liked Ben Kingsley (as Istak Stern, Schindler's accountant)  and Ralph Fiennes (as Amon Goeth, the camp commandant). All of the  performances were very convincing and reflect the good  casting.

Another great feature of this film is the soundtrack. Slow,  soaring music tells of the painful circumstances of the Jews and of their  conflict with the Nazi regime. Mixed in with the instrumental pieces are  Jewish melodies which also gave me a sense of the cultural traditions of  the Jewish people. 
From a technical point of view, the decision by  director Spielberg to shoot the movie is black-and-white was a good one. In  fact, I think it makes the movie better than it would have been in color.  The few color segments throughout the movie are aptly placed and help to  focus the viewer's attention on particular details through the eyes of  Schindler. The scenery and photography were excellent compared to other  movies I have seen and contribute to the whole atmosphere of the 1940s.  Some people may be put off a bit by the length (over 3 hours) but believe  me, every minute is worthwhile. Unlike other long movies, there are no  lulls or useless scenes -- everything counts. 
The best part of the movie  without any doubt is the story itself, the tale of Oskar Schindler and how  he was able to save 1100 Jews from the Auschwitz gas chambers by employing  them in his enamelware factory and eventually his shelling factory.  Schindler's ambition and personal success shines through amidst the Jewish  tragedy and shows how one man, if he has the willpower, can accomplish what  appears to be impossible. Based on the novel by Thomas Keneally (which I  have not yet had the opportunity to read), this movie digs deep into the  human soul and shows how different people are able to survive. 
There are  many touching moments in this film; in particular, near the end when the  war has been declared over and the Nazis must flee from the Soviet army.  This part and the modern-day segment that follows are both truly  heart-warming tributes. I finished watching this movie for about the fourth  time yesterday, and even though I didn't cry, tears welled up in my eyes  (and this rarely happens when I watch movies). 
This movie is a must-see  not only for its excellence in the film genre but for the story it presents  to the viewer. Although it is not suitable for young children (due to its  violence and mature content), any mature individual should see it so they  can understand that a spark of good can still exist in a fire of evil. This  movie deserved all of the Academy Awards that it received and will likely  remain in top ten lists for at least the next fifty years. Highly  recommended.