Micheal Caine plays Pierre Brossard, who once massacred Jews under the Vichy regime in France.  After living underground for more than forty years, with the help of a some friends and the Catholic order The Knights of Mary, Brossard is on the run again.  He's running from the French government, which as once pardoned him but is now prosecuting him under a new 'crimes against humanity' law.  He's also running from someone, perhaps a Jewish organization bent on revenge, trying to kill him.
Micheal Caine and the other actors do an awesome job in this movie.  The filmography is also quite good, as well as the pacing.  On it's whole the movie was interesting, with the occasional small thrill.
Unfortunately there were a couple of big holes, which never seem to quite get filled.  Micheal Caine's character, Brossard, doesn't seem to have a definite bent.  One moment he is a penitent old man, sorry for what he did in his misguided youth.  Another, he is threatening his wife, informing her that she will do what he tells her or he will hurt her dog.  A man that threatens his wife's dog just to push her into submission doesn't seem the type that would be too bothered by what he did over forty years ago.  This inconsistency in character really sticks in the craw of the viewer.  There are also problems with how the Catholics who help Brossard are portrayed.  The director never seems inclinded to indicate their motivation.  Are they a group of anti-Jewish clerics?  Are they just old men who think that another old man has been pardoned and shouldn't be bothered anymore?  Or are they just kindly priests who would shelter and protect anyone who was in need?  The movie never seems to make up it's mind.  These are somewhat large and disappointing holes in the plot of what should have been a really slick movie.  I can only guess that the Brian Moore novel, from which this movie was adapted, gives more detail than what the director decided to include here.  It's disappointing and I would have been more than willing to sit through a slightly longer movie in order not to have those sorts of holes show up.