I am writing this review mostly to take issue with the idea that this work is 'anti-christian'.  To call this work anti-christian is like saying that abolitionists before and during the civil war were 'anti-white'.  They weren't anti-white, they were against treating human beings as property.  Similarly, this work isn't anti-christian, it's a lens on the inhuman cruelty, on both sides, done in the name of religion during the 200 years of the crusades.

Can you honestly say that burning a village and eating it's children is something Christ would have approved of?  Yet this was done in his name.  Is it 'anti-christian' to say so?  No, it is 'anti' the people who, while improperly invoking Christ's name, performed these horrific acts.  It is calling a spade a spade, and no more.

Being defensive about your religion when one points out the horrors done in the name of religion is counter productive.  If you are truly a 'Christian', then you ought to be just as vocal in condemning any atrocity no matter what religion the perpetrator claims to believe in.  Atrocity is atrocity, no matter what the cause.

To remain on topic, let me add to the chorus of those saying this is an informative and entertaining look at this period in history.  It is written such that it follows the perspective of the western world at the time.  I'm sure you could write one that followed the eastern side that also showed atrocities, as the west by no means held the monopoly there, but that's simply beyond the scope of this work.

Given its subject matter, parents should consider the temperament of their children before deciding to use it as a teaching tool, but otherwise it would be excellent for that purpose as an introduction to that period in world history.  Terry Jones has a wonderful sense of humor that young teens should especially be able to relate to.  I would say that it is a bit dry towards the beginning, but that once it hits its stride it becomes very easy to follow along with despite the subject matter.