First of all, when you see a live performance you have every element of the concert including the backgrounds and associated noise forever on the DVD.  While a few thousand may choose to attend the concerts, the overwhelming amount of sales go to people who have not (Groban's first concert set sold over 3 million).  So the setting of the concert is VERY important.  The people who filmed this concert chose to do it at the Greek, an open ampitheatre that seats hundreds.  Their choice.

Next it is a DVD, so everything visually comes into play.  The people who did this, including Groban, chose to dress down but keep beautiful Lucia Micarelli in a gown, thus having something to compare Groban to.  Pretty strong comparison considering the fact that Groban was wearing Sketchers or some other kind of sneaker and a sparkly T-shirt.  Also visually was the projected background scenery which was sometimes nauseatingly flashy.

Then we get to Josh Groban, and since he's the star of the show this is the most important of all.  His voice, noticably strained and noticably nasaly (noticed by the overwhelming majority of reviewers here and elsewhere).  His performance was more laid back and slouchy.  While a handful of people may find that dazzling including me, it is completely dulled by the fact that Groban cannot sing well throughout the concert.  Josh Groban isn't a dancer, piano man or drummer.  He's a SINGER.  If you take that away from him you get JOSH GROBAN, LIVE AT THE GREEK.

1. Oceano--Okay

2. Per Te--Mediocre

3. To Where You Are--Oh God..not THAT again!!.  We see it through a sea of waving hands with miniature flags.

4. Mi Mancherai (il postino)--Groban is NASAL here.

5. Mi Morena--Reasonably okay

6. Alejate--okay

7. Canto Alla Vita--Ahh.  Here's a sore sot.  This version includes a horrible intro by Groban on the keyboards and a rock DRUM solo by Groban at the end.

8. Nocturne/Bohemian Rhapsody (performed by Lucia Micarelli)--Beautiful!!  She's a keeper.

9. Alla Luce Del Sole (special guest artist: Bela Fleck)--A BANJO!!

10. My December--Dull

11. Caruso--Well sung but we get popping and flowing Sub-Titles projected behind Groban as he sings.

12. Remember When It Rained--A dull song, written by Groban

13. Vincent (Starry, Starry Night)--Okay but not as good as the first concert

14. Remember--Not a good key for Groban

15. You Raise Me Up--Absolutely HORRIBLE.  What did they give the kids in the choir??  They're so hyped it's terrible.  Groban's voice is warbly.

16. America--Not Groban's key either.

17. Never Let Go --Another dull song from "Closer"

What they left out from "Closer" was the beautiful "My Confession" and his first song in French "Hymme a L'amour."  Matter of fact they left out a lot of songs from "Closer."