It was a strange movie; the edgy feeling was on par with, say, Edward scissor-hands. That was mostly due to the Score being very well done. A beef I have with a lot of more modern movies is that people don't use their score and background music well anymore. With the exception of Lord of the Rings, the use of themes takes the place of mood- and that's not really a good thing. In Fahrenheit, the music sets the tone and helps you interpret the intended emotional effect. Otherwise, in a movie with so little dialogue and such stone-faced acting (which wasn't as negative as it sounds), you'd hardly know what you were supposed to feel!
The story is set in the near future, in a time when books have been outlawed. The main character is a fireman- no, he doesn't put out fires (homes these days are modern and fire-proof - he starts them by burning books. Firemen are trained to go out on calls to people's homes, raid them of all their hidden books and burn them. Television totally controls the culture standard as all people are brought into uniformity with each other. The communist idea of everyone being made alike is brought to its full manifestation.
The Fireman begins to read the books he burns after meeting a lady who doesn't quite fit the mold.  Eventually he is caught, murders his captain with a flame thrower and escapes to live with the Book People, a commune of individuals each of whom have memorized some great work of literature in order to preserve it. "I'm `The Prince' by Machiavelli" says one scraggly looking man, "It should now be plain that you can't judge a book by its cover!"
Seeing as it is an older movie, everything about it is tame as far as how nasty stuff is portrayed. People smoke (books about lung cancer used to make them upset, so they were burned to preserve their happiness), overdose of pills, die fiery deaths among piles of forbidden books, and get shot. But none of it is anywhere near the more brutal or sickening kinds of violence and such one is used to seeing in movies. Incidentally, the one love scene in this movie consists of the wife knocking her husband onto the bed, untying his bathrobe to reveal *gasp* long sleeve and long legged pajamas, and as she wraps her arm around his PJs and kisses him, the scene fades. 
As a philosophical movie, it does well, bringing up some excellent questions about "common good", "individuality", and "happiness". As pure entertainment, or party fare, it does very little good at all. Rent it and think through the questions the "model society" brings.