People with Asperger Syndrome are all around you. You encounter them almost every day, though you don't realize it. If you think you know Asperger Syndrome after watching this movie, then you still won't notice them when you meet them. Because what you see in this movie is such a bad portrayal of people with Asperger's. Real Asperger Syndrome is usually so much more subtle than what you see here. The characters in this movie are much deeper in to autism than the average Aspie. They seem to be tending more toward Kanner's autism than Asperger Syndrome. The behavior of a true Aspie can be much milder than what is seen here. Just a little quirky oddness. Something wrong with them you can't quite put your finger on. But much more "high functioning" than what you see here.

I strongly agree with Nathan Andersen's review of the movie. The screenwriter designed the characters to be living illustrations of the autism symptoms found in the DSM-IV, and not much more. He went down the list of symptoms and had the characters act them out with the subtlety of a sledgehammer. It didn't help that the actors didn't really know how to convincingly portray these characteristics. Though I could sense Radha Mitchell's acting talent, even she didn't know how to portray an Aspie.

Even as a plain old love story the movie falls flat. The two main characters were obviously never meant for each other. Aspies usually aren't meant for anyone else, even another Aspie. I had absolutely no interest in their petty relationship squabbles. As boy-meets-girl, boy-loses-girl, boy-gets-girl-back writing goes, this was pretty lame. Do you want to see a much better portrayal of a relationship with an Aspie? Watch "The 40 Year Old Virgin." A more competent portrayal, and a better made movie.

There was one accurate feature in this movie which you may not have noticed. Observe how we never saw any shrink trying to counsel these Aspies, either as a group or individually. They were on their own against the normals. Quite an accurate reflection of the fact that shrinks have no interest in helping Aspies.

I suppose it was a brave act on the part of the movie's makers to make a movie filled with the kind of people that normal brained people have tuned out of their consciousness. But an inaccurate, almost caricatured portrayal of Asperger Syndrome could damage the cause of Asperger awareness. And that I can't tolerate.