I will not get into the story of Claymore (it is spoken of time and time again in other reviews) but I will add; as a reader of the on-going Manga, I hated how this series ended so prematurely.  But as an anime, Claymore has many redeeming qualities that I loved it for what it became.

I will entail in this review if this is a worthy upgrade from it's standard definition counterpart, which in fact I collected individually then the box set.

VIDEO:
Some may have heard, but this HD upgrade is 1080i. This maybe due to the fact that the show was encoded at 30 frames a second; and since Blu-ray does not support 1080p30, the show would have to be left at 1080i to play seamlessly (it would otherwise seem mildly choppy had it been 1080p24). Other than that, Claymore's video quality is indeed a welcome face-lift though it does have its hits and misses. As what you expect from most Funimation titles, the lines are extremely clean and without all the compression artifacts, you begin to spot little things you missed watching the DVD version such as, reflections, little facial details, etc. The color on the other hand is only mildly more vibrant and if you have watched Claymore before, you'll know that the atmosphere is intentionally grim and nothing in terms of color really pops out (until the end, that is).  If there is one thing they did not fix was the color banding. All in all, it looks marginally better than the DVD version; a standard but sweet upscale if anything.

AUDIO: ENG- DolbyTrueHD / JP-DD 2.0
Sadly only the English dub was given the HD treatment. Though in all honesty I enjoy my anime in either or language, especially if done by Funimation. However, if you prefer the ENG dub then you are in for a treat.  If there is one thing that Claymore does benefit from upgrading, it is the audio. Encoded at DolbyTrueHD, Claymore's music and action sequences really makes its presence through the speakers.  Most notably, I thought the sword clashing was extremely sharp and Riful's awakened speech was an aural shock to the ears.  Definitely pleasing all around, next to Heroic Age, I would have to say this is Funimation's best effort yet.

EXTRAS:
Episode commentaries, JP staff interviews, trailers, 48-page art book... nothing new added from the last box set. Though I might add; you can catch a glimpse of Evangelion 1.11 on disc two, and boy does it look fantastic in HD!

In conclusion, I'd say if you are a new comer to this series you are definitely in for a treat.  However, if you are double (or triple) dipping like I have, I would say pick this one up if you love Claymore that much.

Reviewed with:
Samsung LN4061F
Yamaha RX-V465 w/Orb Audio satellites and sub
Sony PS3