My husband and I viewed this film in the theater several months ago.  We found this film and be very well done.  It's one fault it's credited by those who oppose it, is that it shows a side to President Obama that his faithful either can't tolerate or refuse to hear.  Further they don't want YOU to hear it!  So, now they are getting on here with their reviews (most of which if they were honest would have to admit they NEVER saw the film) and are nonetheless giving it a one star rating just to poison the effects of this documentary.  This film is a very courageous statement if you really consider who made it & produced it.

Let me ask you a few questions and you will need to be open minded and fair.  Have you ever wondered why Obama's background (his political views and idealogy) weren't more vetted?  Have you ever questioned the source of your information?  Is it the mainline press on either CNN, CBS, NBC, MSNBC, or ABC news?  I would venture that 85% of the top level broadcasters or news analysts, news writers, reporters, or news producers are either extreme left leaning or consider themselves Democrats.  Why does this even matter?  Because even the best of news people can't help but have their political bias show through... and the worst among them purposely slant and ignore important news stories that don't show their political "Rock Stars" in a good light.  If these channels had been more committed to unbiased news then there would never have been a Fox News.  The reason Fox News has now overtaken all the other news broadcasts in the rating is that they don't ignore the news stories that are breaking they report on them and follow the story to wherever it leads or investigate it to try to find out how or why it happened.  If you were college educated do you realize that 80% of the university professors are also clearly left leaning.  These institutions have even given entry and refuge to 60's radicals who clearly have agendas and actively plotted to overthrow our government.  Some of these very people have the President's ear and are his advisers.  Do you know that the President's election team in 2008 tried to buy his former pastor's silence?  It's because they knew if you heard, really heard what he believed you would be forced to think what was Obama thinking to stay in this man's church for all those years!

Getting back to this film... clearly this IS a film that the people in Obama's reelection campaign do not want you to see.  So go see it!  Aren't you curious now?  You should be!