I cannot believe that this movie is ~22 years old already. It still holds its own today and is the best Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie. I remember first seeing it as a child, but I didn't truly appreciate this movie until I became an adult. Why? Yes, there are many corny/campy dialogue scenes and references to the 80s cartoon series that are meant to be funny for kids who see the movie. However, if you look closer at this movie, it is actually one of the darkest. I can provide many examples, including Raphael's inner struggle with his anger where splinter tells him "I am here, my son". Another example is when the Turtles suffer their first defeat and run away to the farm. Leonardo dealing with guilt to what happened to Raphael. Finally, I will go into the best example of the dark undertones in this movie. It is by far the best scene of the movie:

The bonfire scene where the turtles meditate to reach Splinter is one of the most powerful scenes in the movie. Leonardo finds out that he can reach his master by meditating. He gathers his brothers and they all meditate to hear a touching speech from their masters telling them "I love you all... my sons."  The music, the fire, the emotion was perfectly done. Maybe it partially influence to the loss of my own father, but it is hard to hold tears back at the end of this scene.

The fight scenes in this movie are all well done. The chucking scene between the foot ninja and Michelangelo was hilarious. The final confrontation with the Shredder was well made.

It is a shame that each movie that came after got worse. Part II was not that bad and still had some of the darker undertones (until the ending). But part III and the many shows made based on these characters after the movies were terrible. It is not worth commenting on, honestly. But one thing remains, I will treasure this movie as the best of the TMNT series. There will be no TMNT movie that will compare to this one.

If you want another awesome turtle series check out the 2003 TMNT cartoon series. It pays many homages to this movie.