I've been awaiting this excellent movie on Blu-ray since High Definition discs were released.  Not only is it an outstanding movie, but you can read web sites full of information on how accurately this movie depicts the era.  It is beautifully shot and looks stunning on-screen.

Which is why it's hard to give one of my few 5-star movies a 3-star Blu-ray rating.

WITHOUT ADJUSTMENT, SCENES ARE TOO DARK ON BLU-RAY
The nighttime scenes  (which is half the movie) were too dark to enjoy. Facial nuances and a great deal of the interaction was completely lost in the darkness of every scene that didn't take place in absolute daylight. Even the scene when Hawkeye comes back to the Cameron cabin the second time (which was a daylight scene), was too dark to make out any details until things brightened a bit later in the scene.

I removed the Blu-ray and put in both the U.S. and the U.K. versions just to make sure I wasn't just seeing things. And both of the DVD versions were infinitely easier to view and make out details.

This is the first and only BD I've had to radically adjust my gamma values to restore the nuances of the nighttime scenes.  So, the information is there (on the Blu-ray), but the default viewing experience is way too dark.

For non-videophiles or those who don't have a professionally calibrated setup, jack up your Blu-ray player's gamma value (or brightness if you can't find your Gamma setting) to make sure you don't miss out on half the movie.

DIRECTOR'S DEFINITIVE CUT
For those who prefer the theatrical version of the movie to Michael Mann's Director's Cut, you'll be pleased.  Although this is a new and different edit, most of the elements sadly removed from the theatrical version have been restored here.  Some additional scenes previously available only in Director's Cut are welcome in this version since they don't come at the cost of the scenes previously removed in the Director's Version.  For the curious, these include the minor goofs noticed only by a picky few (one's yellow, the other ripples).  Either way, neither take away from the particular scenes nor the overall movie.

This is a great version that brings the best from the previously-released versions into one.  Be sure to increase your gamma values for this disc to enjoy it fully.