I stumbled upon this movie after reading Suzanne Collins' "Hunger Games" and seeing how everyone keeps on comparing what happens in the book to this movie.  Just by reading about the premise, I had expected this to be some kind of a twisted exploitation film with lots of gratuitous violence.  But what I got is a thought-provoking film that is as relevant now as it was back when it was made at the beginning of the millenium.

So the story takes place in the near future, when the government in Japan has collapsed and youngsters are allowed to run amock...causing chaos and fear among the adults.  In an effort to curb the growing violence perpetrated by the youth of the nation, the government came up with what is referred to as the BR act.  Each year, a 9th grade class would be randomly selected and driven to a desert island under the guise of a class field trip.  Once there, they will be given a bag of food, a piece of weapon, and told that they will have 2 days in which to kill each until there is only 1 left.  To keep everyone under check, and make sure that there will be a winner, all the students are forced to wear a collar around their neck that will explode and kill everyone if there is still more than 1 person left alive at the end of the 2-day period.

Desipte what some people say about how violent this film is, I found the level of violence no more than what one would see in most R-rated movies these days.  The body count is high, but the cameras do not make a point to linger on the bloody scenes so that after the 1st couple scenes, the rest of the bloodbaths can no longer shock you.  Instead, you are allowed to focus on the nuanced relationships that develops between the students as some of them elect to follow the dictates of the game and turn on their friends, while others chose to rebel against the authority, to badn together and try to find ways to thwart the adults' plans for them.  For a film that starts out with a cast of 40+, the director did a very good job and developing the relationships and giving some of the characters personalities and enough background story so that you come to care about them.  There are also themes of trust, betrayal, friendship, and love peppered throughout the film...no small feat for a movie of this length.

Ultimately, this is not so much a movie about mindless violence but a commentary on a society that has become increasingly out-of-touch with its youth.  I've often thought that with the advent of the Internet age, where instant gratification is more the norm than the exception, where graphic violence are readily dispensed with the click of the button...that coupled with the tremendous strides in terms of economic advancement many countries have experienced over the last decade, the youth of the world has become increasingly more and more self-entitled, less willing to put in the hard work, and generally have exhibited a lack of understanding when it comes to distinguishing right from wrong.  While the solution this movie came up with is ridiculous and extreme, it does provide some much needed food for thought.