The Departed is, in short, a stunning achievement from director Martin Scorsese, who gleefully returns to the hard-hitting gangster genre that made him famous. Joining him in his return is one of the better casts you'll likely find in one movie, and all of these elements combined make this one a must see.

  I don't usually give a plot description because anyone who has read this far down the page probably already knows as much or more than they wanted without actually seeing the film. To put it simply, Jack Nicholson plays the only clearly definable bad-guy in the film. Everyone else is morally iffy at best. This is definitely not a movie for those seeking characters to admire or root for, although it's so involving and played so well that you'll likely find yourself rooting for just about everyone regardless.

  The performances in this film make this film, period. Jack Nicholson is spectacular as only Jack can be. He's basically here to remind the audience what a commanding and terrific actor he is, especially as a villain. He's equally terrifying and hilarious and, as always, it seems so effortless. Matt Damon also continues to prove his chops in a tricky role of dual personalities and dual motives. He brings across both his Good Will Hunting charm and his Jason Bourne brooding to great effect. His role is complex, to say the least, and you don't really know his true nature until the climax.

  The real star of this show, however, turns out to be Leonardo DiCaprio.  His outstanding performance is a revelation of his true talent, and it's safe to say that I was absolutely blown away by it. He perfectly blends a tough guy (and he is tough) with a regular guy that wants no part of all of that ugliness. He is completely desperate throughout, both in his current situation caught torn between cops and gangsters, as well as his long-time desire to rid himself of his family's shameful legacy. DiCaprio makes you believe all of this from beginning to end, and if any acting awards are handed out for this film, they should go to Leo (sorry Jack)!

  The Departed also benefits from an unusually stellar supporting cast. Mark Wahlberg, Martin Sheen and Alec Baldwin could easily headline their own film, but they all shine as role players in this one. Relative newcomer Vera Farmiga holds her own pretty well as the only female, which is pretty impressive considering that alone, not to mention the quality and reputation of the all-male cast she has to contend with.

  This movie is definitely not for children or the squeamish. It's violent, gritty, brutal, sexually charged, and almost every other word is four-letters. This is easily distinguishable as a Scorsese picture and is for mature adults that can enjoy this sort of thing and not take it too seriously. That said, any takers will be pleasantly surprised and thoroughly entertained.

  The Departed is definitely not an indie movie and never feels like one. This is pure old-fashioned Hollywood in the best tradition. Yeah, yeah, I know what you're thinking: Hollywood is anything but consistent & these days rarely of any real quality. Granted, but every once in a while a movie like this is made and reminds us that when the stars align in the right way, it is worth the price of admission and then some.