Ice Cube plays a man unhappy with his life. He manages a barbershop on Chicago's Southside, an establishment he inherited - along with its workers and patrons - from his father, deceased just a few years past. He chases get-rich-quick schemes (thinking other professions are more noble) and ends up selling the barbershop to the devil (the local loan shark) in order to pay off his debts. Only then does he realize the contribution that both he - and his barbershop - make to his community.
Cedric the Entertainer, as the resident Socrates, says it best; the barbershop is "the black man's country club." It's a place where souls can gather and great philosophy can be discussed, such as how a "Woman with a Big Ass" is different from a "Big Ass Woman!" Everyone speaks in cadence. And there's a stylish handshake for every occasion.
A cute black babe, Eve, also works there. But it's the men who steal the show. A white guy tries to act black (and eventually proves himself to be sincere towards the movie's end). Sean Patrick Thomas (Save the Last Dance) plays an obnoxious know-it-all, and everyone's foil. Two other fools steal an ATM machine, and spend the entire film comically trying to break it open. Imagine the two bumbling housebreakers in Home Alone with nappier heads, and you'll get the picture.
The movie reminded me of a black man's version of Frank Capra's It's a Wonderful Life -- except with much better music. Unlike Jimmy Stewart, Ice Cube doesn't get to see the world without him, and neither does he try to commit suicide. But he does come to realize that, in his neighborhood, his barbershop plays an integral role; and that he, as its proprietor - is actually a pillar of the community. Without him, the lives of others would definitely be much worse. 
For his wife, Jimmy had the lovely Donna Reed; and Ice Cube, just as lucky, has the gorgeous Jazsmin Lewis as his always supportive better-half.
This was easily Ice Cube's most touching role. And the movie break dances nicely between hilarity - and poignancy.