As a youth, I grew up on Dragon Ball Z: now approaching my 21st birthday, I decided to pick up the first to box sets on a whim to see if this series had aged well and just because I feeling nostalgic.

DESIGN OF THE BOX SET AND PACKAGING

Because this is a collection and because part of owning the box set is the actual box, I would like to discuss a little bit about how it looks and all the little physical features.

First off, the art on the front of the box is very clear and crisp and looks just plain cool. The hard side of the box has a little Dragon Ball on the side to notify you as what volume you are opening up. However, because this was made in Japan and just translated over, the box dvd containers will read right to left instead of the standard North American standard of left to right. Nothing big, just pointing that out. Slotted in between the 2 dvd containers is a book that contains episode information, artwork and trivia. It is in full color and is a nice little addition. Plastered on the ends of the containers is one of those image things that when lined up with the other box sets will create an image of Goku doing something (I don't know what it is quite yet because I a only have the first two boxes).

Overall, the design is nice and the artbook is a nice throw in
4/5

DVD's
The real reason anyone would want to buy this is the content on the disk. I am going to keep this short just because this is Dragonball Z and unless you have been living under a rock, you probably already know the story for this.

The quality of the video is very nice and crisp: quite good for its time actually. The big thing for hardcore collectors is that there is a Japanese audio option that is actually the default setting with English subtitles. Seeing as how I don't speak Japanese,I could not faithfully tell if the audio synced up properly or not. Changing over to the English side though, and I must say, this one can be a little rough. This was dubbed over in a time when this was still a bit of a challenge and some of dialogue can be a little choppy or odd. Still, it is uncut and still has its' own crowning moments of awesome. The only real problem I have with the content is that there isn't an option for the American original soundtrack. While the Japanese one is nice, I still prefer the American guitar to the Japanese horn and orchestra.
5/5

In the end, the final score is all that matters and really, this is the definitive DBZ box set. It has all of the episodes (filler included), is uncut, and has the packaging of kings. I highly recommend this to Dragon Ball Z fans young and old a like.

Final:
*****