I was not expecting much of Exorcist The Beginning, following the two laughable sequels to the original Exorcist. I am a big fan of the 1973 original and was looking forward to this prequel. I kept saying to myself "Nothing can be worse than Heretic". Thank God, errr Satan, errr well some higher power that it wasn't that bad. There are some holes in this movie as far as answers to sub - stories and characters that never get fully or even partially explained. There are some horrible graphics (The hyenas that spring from the well were,,, well,,, awful) that remind me of the spirits from 'Ghost' that drag the bad humans down to Hell. For the most part the movie pulled me in and I hung in there with it, even with the silly ending - I enjoyed it. I think critics take themselves too seriously sometimes and a good laugh at a demonic possession movie is a good thing. The opening of Exorcist The Beginning moves well and is suspenseful and depict Father Merrin played very well by Stellen Skarsgård as a priest who has doubted his faith (How original) and the audience starts to doubt if he will ever stop drinking long enough to battle Beelzebub or whomever. The cinematography is impressive and the Church and temple underneath gave me the chills. We are shown how Father Merrin lost his faith and why he insists on being called Mr. Merrin. This being from his past as a priest in Nazi Germany. OK, we start to enter "Bizzaro - Schindler's List - Let's put whatever we can find into this movie" world. But I am still in there. I am entertained damnit and that's all that matters. Okay, so the movie makes some twists and a few meant to shock scenes that do not really shock - But I am still there. A few more deaths, a predictable battle between soldiers and tribesmen - Hey I am still in there. Then it all culminates into the laughable ending. I respect the original because at the time of release I was 9 and it scared the crap out of me. Since then I have grown to love the original not only for the well written - well acted gem it was. But for the Hitchcock-esque way it scared you without really showing you anything. I have been de-sensitized since then, but I still enjoy a good fright and a good laugh. The ending gave me both. We were able to see the Regan-esque beauty of the possessed along with bad dialogue and bad graphics. I put myself in another place at this time and pretended I was watching 'Evil Dead', 'Reanimator' or some other campy Horror flick. I do not mean to "Diss" the above mentioned movies since they are classics among Horror fans but I think you get my point. I was still in there damnit, enjoying myself and having a good time in the dark. (...) What I am trying to say is in this day and age of movies about going to White Castle and Freddie vs. Snuffle-u-fagus ... Why not enjoy the ride of Exorcist The Beginning.  Hey, It was a Hell of a lot better than Heretic.
Mark D.