This set is the first two seasons of "Rumpole of the Bailey", a British series combining comedy and law.  The series is based on  the character of Horace Rumpole, an aging London defense lawyer.  The author, John Mortimer, has written a series of novels and short stories over many years.  I highly recommend the books.  They are able to add texture that the television series can't capture.

There are 4 discs, each containing 3 hour-long episodes.  There are no sub-titles available.  Since the sound quality is not the greatest, this is a real problem because there are certain parts of the dialogue that you will never get, no matter how many times you replay.  The sound quality is not horrible, just not very good - like all British based television series from the time, the production values just aren't very high.  The author, John Mortimer, introduces each episode.  Mortimer is a well-known author of books from Rumpole stories to his memoirs.  He also has written a number of screenplays and other television series.  Mortimer was also a practicing lawyer who is known for making Pornography legal in England.

Each episode is based on a short-story concerning a case of Rumpole's.  Also included are side stories of Rumpole's family and co-workers.  The show is almost perfectly cast, especially Leo McKern who plays Rumpole.  The supporting cast is also well-chosen.  The series itself is wonderful because of the casting and the stories of Mortimer.  The humor of the series is its strongest point.  Each episode usually brings up some social issue like presumption of innocence or trial by jury.  I especially enjoy the police, prosecution, and judges who are all opposed and ridiculed by Rumpole.

Given the current state of much of television, I much prefer popping in one of these episodes to viewing the latest garbage on the networks.  The set is rather pricy(> 5 bucks an episode), especially given the paucity of extra features.  Consider buying all the seasons or combinations of sets to get them cheaper.