I have never reviewed an item on Amazon before but I feel it would be beneficial to do so with TA method book/DVD.  This is an INTENSE and TIME CONSUMING process BUT I lost 18lbs and 21inches in 30 days.  My sister lost 20lbs and 19inches.  We completed the entire method together, worked out together when we could, and prepared meals together. I really advise having a buddy to do the method with to keep yourself motivated.  I am an extremely busy single mother of two working full time and my sister is a full time ER RN who frequently works long shifts, but we made time to complete the work out everyday.  What I liked best about the DVD and method is that although you have to exercise for 1-3hrs a day, ( the workout never took less than 2 1/2 hrs for me) you can break it up into segments and complete it little by little through out the day when you have time.  For example I would do 40-60 cardio in the morning, leg series in the afternoon, and arms and abs before bed.  There were days I was so sore that I thought I was going to die, but after stretching and cardio I was able to make it through.  If you want easy this is not the book or workout for you. If you want RESULTS and are willing to work really hard for only ONE month then I recommend this.  The book is fairly well written, nice to reference when you want to make sure that you are positioning correctly.  The menu is easy to follow I love that she focuses on not calories but eating good energy producing food. TA provides all the recipes and my sister who couldn't cook before this had no problem handling them.  The downside, the cardio gets boring, BUT it works, the DVD is not edited the best but it comes with the book and most of her DVDs run 30 bucks anyway, so you can't expect perfection.  I know other reviewers didn't like that she doesn't smile or talk much, but i personally liked it because it was so hard that if she had been smiley and talking it would have pissed me off-LOL. I have now moved on to her post pregnancy AB video and plan to stick with it.
 FYI - I was lazy couch potato, hardly worked out ever and my sister was uber-active exercise freak, it was difficult for both of us but we both made it:)