I originally watched Sirens on Netflix and absolutely loved it.  I watched it several times with the subtitles engaged, each time catching nuances I had not noticed before.  I liked it so much I bought it from Amazon.com, but I made the mistake of buyhing the least expensive version on sale, and it had no subtitles.  I found that a significant loss, as I am every so slightly hard of hearing and the Australian accents and humor are often missed.  I would cheerfully give this movie five stars if I was reviewing the more expensive model.

Artist Norman Lindsay (1879-1969) was an incredibly talented and prolific Australian artist, sculptor, writer, editorial cartoonist, scale modeler, and boxer (Wickipedia).  Examples of his paintings may be seen at (...)

"Sirens" is a quirky, humorous, fictionalized story that accurately portrays the controversies and consternation resulting from Lindsay's work.  I don't know if Lindsay was an atheist or not, but he accurately cast "The Church" in the role of self-righteous destroyer of all things sensual, sexual, and oppressor and suppressor of the most beautiful creation in all of God's Creation:  The nude, sensual, borderline (and not-so-borderline) erotic female body.  I am most certainly not an atheist, but I fully agree with Lindsay's philosophy about organized religion.

The story has an envoy from the Church of England (Hugh Grant) and his wife (Tara FitzGerald) who are tasked with visiting artist Norman Lindsay (Sam Neill) and trying to talk him into withdrawing one of his paintings (Crucifixian of Venus) from an art exhibition.  Lindsay welcomes the opportunity to have a rousing debate on the subject of religious censorship.

Australian supermodel Elle MacPherson plays one of his nude models in her film debut, and I understand she had to put on weight for the role.  Kate Fischer is another saucy model (and an obnoxious Stalinist at a time when the airheads of the world thought Communism was the foundation for paradise), and Pamela Rabe plays Lindsays wife, who also models for him.  Portia de Rossi plays a maid who has been invited to pose as well, and Mark Gerber plays a mute (maybe) and mostly blind (maybe) odd job man who also poses.  The movie is really about Estella (Tara FitzGerald) and her awakening to a much larger world of sensuality and passion.

BTW:  In an example of crass hyperbole, the DVD jacket quotes Playboy as describing the movie as "The most EROTIC movie of the year!"  NONSENSE!  There is nothing erotic about it.  There are no sex scenes beyond suggestive inferences.  However, casual nudity and sensuality is a prominent feature of the movie, and yes, the ladies are ravishing.  The ladies in the audience might also consider Mark Gerber to be ravishing.  But erotic?  Sexual?  No.

I won't say any more for fear of spoiling the plot, but if you are like me you will watch the movie again and again to catch all the extrfa little nuances that make it so fascinating.  I just wish the particular version I bought had subtitles.