This 1982 Paramount drama tells the story of a Navy aviation officer candidate Zach Mayo(Richard Gere)who comes into conflict with the hard-nosed Marine Corps. Gunnery Sgt. Emil Foley(Lou Gossett, Jr.) who trains him, but tries to make him an outcast by hazing him trying to get Zach to DOR, despite Zach's refusal to quit the Navy along with the fact that this films title used an old expression from the British Royal Navy and subsequently from the U.S. Uniform Code of Military Justice as being charged with "conduct unbecoming an officer & a gentleman from 1860.

AN OFFICER & A GENTLEMAN starts out with Zach living with his alcoholic Navy boatswain's mate Bryon Mayo(Robert Loggia)whom Zach has been living with since his early adolescence after his mother commited suicide, so by hoping to put his life on a different path, Zach joins the Navy.

Eventually Zach & his Navy buddy Sid Worley(David Keith)meet 2 local ladies at a Navy-hosted dance which are factory workers Paula Pokrifki(Debra Winger)& Lynette Pomeroy(Lisa Blount)with whom each begins a romantic relationship with.

Therefore, that song "Up Where We Belong" by Joe Cocker always makes me think of this movie, since it was released around the same time as that song was.

Richard Gere and Debra Winger were a hot and cute looking couple, especially in their sexy touching lovemaking scene in the middle of the movie showing Winger & Gere in bed together in total nudity showing us everything, but Wingers coochie and Gere's pee pee, which reminds me that Richard Gere always seemed to have a way of getting his main female co-stars into bed in most of his movies back in the 1980's, but I guess that's another thing that made Gere a sex symbol back in the 80's.

This DVD also has bonus features showing the director(Taylor Hackford) and co-stars from AN OFFICER & A GENTLEMAN 25 years later talking about their experience & memories while filming this movie back in 1982, but I don't know whatever happened to Debra Winger and I don't understand is why didn't they show Debra Winger talking about her experience doing AN OFFICER & A GENTLEMAN in the bonus features, especially since Debra Winger was one of the main co-stars in this movie.

This movie takes me all the way back to memory lane when AN OFFICER & A GENTLEMAN was released in theatres on Wednesday July 28, 1982 when we were still going through the recession we had back in 1981-1982 when Ronald Reagan was president which also takes me all the way back to my childhood years of when I was living in the Imperial Valley since I was living in my hometown(El Centro, CA)at the time when this drama flick was made and had amassed $129, 795, 554 at the box office in the Summer of 1982.

So if you liked AMERICAN GIGOLO, BREATHLESS, or PRETTY WOMAN, you shall like AN OFFICER & A GENTLEMAN, since Gere does his same kind of sexy acting techniques that he used with other female co-stars in a lot of his other movies.