+++++

(Note that this review is for the DVD distributed by Fox Home Entertainment and released in March 2004)

This movie, based on the story "The Curse of Capistrano," is about the son of a Californian nobleman (Tyrone Power) coming home in the 1820s from Madrid, Spain to find his father's land (the father is played by Montague Love) under a villainous dictatorship (the dictator is played by J.E. Bromberg with his assistant being played by Basil Rathbone).  On the one hand he plays the foolish, vain aristocrat, while on the other he's the masked avenger Zorro (Tyrone Power again).  He, as the disguised Zorro, works to restore his father to power and return tax money stolen by the dictator.  As if this is not enough, he even finds time to romance the ruling tyrant's niece (Linda Darnell).

This movie reminded me of "The Adventures of Robin Hood" but without Errol Flynn and the lush, colorful background of Sherwood Forest.  Not only is the storyline (as described above) similar but there are even some of the same actors.  I've already mentioned Basil Rathbone (perhaps most famous for playing "Sherlock Holmes") who again plays a similar role as a villain but there's also Eugene Pallette who also plays a similar but expanded role as a friar.  As in "Robin Hood", there is a thrilling sword duel between our hero (but in his nobleman duds) and the tyrant's assistant.  (Note that this duel is not as thrilling as the one in "Robin Hood.")

I found both the cinematography and the musical score quite well done.  The acting especially by Tyrone Power is very good.  I felt that Tyrone Power did not appear often enough as Zorro.

This movie is sometimes slow and lacks energy in places.  I also found that the black and white gave the movie an unintentional claustrophobic feeling.

Finally, the transfer to DVD could have been better but I found it acceptable.  There are two extras on this DVD that I found interesting.

In conclusion, an exciting classic has been restored to DVD.  Be sure to see this movie and learn the true story of Zorro!!

(1940;  95 min;  black and white;  closed-captioned)

+++++