After the success of the first season on DVD, we could only expect this to be announced as quickly as possible by Warner Home Video.  The second season of "Friends" was brought to viewers with a settled pre-existing foundation.  The first season developed each character inch-by-inch until we were ready to root for Ross and Rachel to get together.  In a wonderfully conceived cliffhanger to season one we were left questioning the outcome to Rachel's bold move at the airport.
When season two picked up, we found out that Ross was going to be a tougher catch than Rachel thought.  This made for quality television when Rachel began to flirt with Ross in blatant attempt at winning his affection.  Once Rachel accidently announces to Ross that she has fallen for him, he is presented with the incredibly difficult decision between Julie and Rachel.  He's had a crush on Rachel since high school, but he's gotten serious with Julie.  That too is accompanied by good writing and classic moments in the "Friends" (and "Mad About You") universe.  For all fans of "Friends", we've known for years how these predicaments turn out, and we also anticipate the eventual relationship between Ross and Rachel in this season.
This season is full of quotable dialogue and memorable situations.  It easily ranks up there as one of the best "Friends" seasons.  The first one started it all, and we are forever in the creators' debt for that, but as the series progressed so did the writing and the actors' performances.
This season houses many classic escapades such as when we find out that Phoebe is married to a Canadian ice skater (who she once thought was gay), when Ross finds out about Rachel's reciprical desire when she says, "I'm over you"(in which he replies, "You're over me?  When were you under me?"), the hilarious prom video that reflects on the Geller's past (and proves to Rachel that Ross has always felt something for her), the star-studded two-parter that aired around the superbowl(featuring Brooke Shields, Jean-Claude Van Damme, and Julia Roberts), when Monica starts dating Richard (played by Tom Selick), and when Joey moves out and is replaced by the annoying and potentially psychotic roommate Eddie.
It's all here, and complemented by some nice looking extras.  The two commentary tracks will definitely provide us with anecdotes up the wazoo and the tour of Monica and Rachel's apartment will be just as informative as was the tour of Central Perk on the season one DVD.  On top of that, you get every episode in their uncut form.
I'm an assured fan of "Friends" and am eagerly awaiting this box-set, which arrives on September 3rd.  If you enjoyed the first season on DVD, I suggest you reserve a copy of "Friends - The Complete Second Season" now.  For anyone who hasn't seen the second season of "Friends" before during its television run, this won't disappoint.