The Apostle (1997)
Robert Duvall, well known for his charismatic character Gus in Lonesome Dove, both stars in and directs this film.  He plays the charismatic character of a minister named  Sonny, who later renames himself through the sacrament of baptism: The Apostle E.F.  The baptism through a rite of the church which should be attended by others is self-administered with only nature attending the event.  The baptism does not change all of Sonny's ways and neither does his name change. It does however allow him to follow and live out his calling to evangelize for a time as an apostle; one called by God to do a specific vocation in the church, or in this case outside the established church.  Like others in our society who have deluded themselves into the belief that by changing their name and geographical location they can escape justice for acts committed against the law and society.  But eventually when the past catches up with them, as it does with E.F., then justice prevails.
A question that comes to mind is who pays or who is to blame?  Is society to blame?  Or are the constructs within society the culprit?  There are usually two sides, if not more to every action.  What Duvall accurately portrays in this film is that the double standard of the patriarchal system is still very much alive.  His charismatic style which attracts others to worship at church is also used in another way in his home.  His wife Jessie Dewey (Farrah Fawcett) knows his style of manipulation quite well as she refuses to pray with him when he asks, begs, and then orders her to.  She resists thus asserting her independence from him.  She is no longer a victim to and of his charm and charismatic ways.  Thus the stage is set for his later behavior; drunkenness and jealous action.  He tries to take by violence what he believes is his, by right of marriage; his wife and children.  The act that he commits causes him to go into hiding, by running and covering up his identity.  Yet his conscious gets to him, as he calls a friend several times to check on conditions at home.  During this time of self-imposed exile he has no contact with his former life except through calls he makes to a friend.  This friend informs him of two deaths; that of his former youth pastor and his (Sonny's) mother.  The self-imposed exile cut Sonny off from his mother, to whom he was deeply devoted.
What caught my voyeur's eye is that Duvall successfully brought belief and faith to the film.  Faith and belief in something outside of one's self will sustain and nourish a person; whether it be a relationship with a friend or God.  People need the construct of community to live up to their full potential.  Sonny proved this as his alter ego E.F. brought a caring sense of community to a depressed people, which helped them to restore and renew their own sense of worth, and relationship to God.  In this way he lived up to the call of God within him, without the vanity of his former life as Sonny the Evangelist.
This film is a must have for those who would like to really see the reality of Christianity and faith lived out.