Overall, I found this version of Jane Austen's "Northanger Abbey" disappointing. While no one element was completely horrible, several factors combined to make this the worst screen adaptation of an Austen novel I've seen to date.

The screenplay was scanty where I wanted more detail. The first half of the book, where Catherine enjoys Bath and becomes acquainted with the other characters was glossed over, without giving any of the characters a chance to emerge as believable. The time poured into the ridiculously repetitive dream sequences might have been better spent developing some of the other characters to the point where Catherine's relationship with them might have been believable. A few tender moments of friendship between Catherine and the mercenary Isabella would have given me at least some reason to believe that Catherine might have voluntarily spent some time in her company. John Thorpe was presented as an evil kind of buffoon, which made me wonder why the sensible James Morland would have befriended him at all. Even the relationship between Henry Tilney and Catherine was rendered implausible by the omission of his character development. The addition of the Marchioness was ridiculous. There was no need to invent her, as Austen already provided the General with enough flaws. The latter half, at Northanger Abbey itself, was not handled adroitly. The developing friendship between Eleanor and Catherine was never allowed to show, and Henry's tenderness toward Catherine was completely absent. The subtlety and understated humor that defines Austen's work was completely absent.

The direction could have been handled better. Everything was overly dramatic, with no trace of subtlety anywhere. Catherine was an idiot, Tilney a rebelious younger son, Isabella a devious fortune hunter, Thorpe an unalloyed villain, General Tilney a stern yet capricious patriarch. I blame the directing, here, rather than the acting, because there were times that it looked like the actors, left to their own devices, would have put on a more credible performance.

As for the acting, all I can say is that they did their best within the bounds set them by the director. Robert Hardy gave an outstanding performance, of course, and the second star I gave was by his merit alone.

The soundtrack is completely inappropriate. It is disjointed, jarring, and modern. All in all, it was a distraction rather than an enhancement.

The costumes were fine, although the Marchioness, who had no reason to be there anyway, was a bit of a joke.

All in all, I felt that the movie missed the point. "Northanger Abbey" was meant to satirize the gothic novel, not exemplify it.