First of all, hats off to CBS/FOX for giving X-Philes a real value.  It would be tempting to release the X-Files episodes two or three at a time as Paramount has done with the original Star Trek. Or even to just release a "best of" collection as they've done with the video releases of X-Files (which while it gives you the classic mythology episodes, sometimes it overlooks some some of my personal favorites).  Instead, FOX has given us the box set that includes every episode of season two, plus a few extra goodies.  
The second season of the X-Files was when it really took off, becoming not only a solid hit for FOX, but also a critical darling and a pop culture phenomenon.  It was the first season to be nominated for an Emmy for best drama and it certainly shows in the episodes represented here. Season two is the one that had the best balance of monster of the week and mythology episodes.  The monsters of the week were memorable and scary--from the disguisting flukeman to the horrifying Donnie Phaster and many more.  There were also the mythology episodes such as the six-story arc to open the season and the classic Colony/End Game episodes that introduced us to Mulder's family.  David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson are both superb over the course of the season and they continue to get better and better with each episode. The second season also introduces perhaps one of the greatest X-Files writers of all time--Darin Morgan. His two episodes here are interesting--one is great (Blood) and the other is superb (Humbug).  Season two had it all and it's worth a look on DVD.
As for some of the detractors to this set, I must point out that only the past three seasons of X-Files have been shown in both widescreen and the full screen version.  Rumor is FOX plans to release the widescreen versions when we get to those seasons. Also, the Dolby surround sound wasn't used until season three, hence why FOX may have chosen not to include it here.
If you're an X-Phile, this is a must have.  If you're looking for a good place to start your journey into the X-Files and remember how good it was, this is the collection for you. 
I know it says trust no one, but trust me on this one.