This movie had a solid performance by Mark Wahlberg and an OK performance by Jennifer Aniston (she somehow seemed mis-cast here).

In a nutshell, here's the plot line.  A guy name Chris works with photocopiers by day and is in a tribute band to the (ficticious) 80's hard rock/metal group Steel Dragon, by night.  His brother constantly insults him for trying to live someone else's life rather than his own. Chris suddenly finds himself at a real loss when he gets kicked out of the band.

Then he (almost miraculously) gets the chance to make his dreams come true when he gets the call to try out as the new lead singer for Steel Dragon.  He's initially on top of the world and thinks he made it in life when he "gets the gig" and gets the chance to live out his dream.  What better way is there to stick it to those guys who thought he was not good enough for their cover band?

But he quickly sees all of the downsides of being where he is and that the person he always wanted to be is no longer the person he wants to be.  Along the way, he loses his girlfriend and his identity, as he finds out that his life is no longer his own, but that he actually must live for the band (not to mention the adoring public).

He leaves the band in the middle of a live performance (tacky writing).  Then he goes home, finds his girlfriend, who of course waited for him (how typical) and then endures the rest of the band insulting him on TV and speaking of how "they are better off without Chris" or "never needed him anyway, because he wasn't an original member of the band."

He and his girlfriend are re-united and he finds contentment in playing his own music and having his own life (what else could we expect?)

If you grew up in the 80's then you would probably at least like parts of this movie because of the setting and backdrop.  But this movie is really just another tale of "just be yourself and live your own life" and/or "the grass is not really greener on the other side like you thought it would be."

I think this movie is a much better concept than it was a reality, the previews made the movie out to be better than it acutally was.  The soundtrack is also better than the movie, I'd recommend buying that before buying this movie, especially if you like 80's hard rock/metal.