First, let me say, that I am a huge fan of the X-Files. I do love this season but I do tend to watch Seasons 1 - 3 sets more frequently. Pros: Small Potatoes (great funny David Duchovny episode. Nerdy guy who transforms into Mulder.), Home (scary, really scary episode. Banned from Fox after one showing. Inbreeding family bury their deformed child. Very violent but funny in ways that I should be embarrassed about.), Demons (Mulder receives unorthodox treatment into his memories regarding sister Samantha. For some reason I like seeing Mulder in a tortured state. Get to see Mulder naked.), mytharc Tempus Fugit/Max (I don't usually like mythology episodes, but I like the character of the constantly abducted Max. Hated seeing Agent Pendrell get shot though...he was sweet on Scully.), Unruhe (another scary episode. Serial killer can see demons inside people and tries to remove them by performing labotomies. Scully gets kidnapped...again), Paper Hearts (another Tortured!Mulder episode. Serial child molester/killer may have killed more...including Mulder's sister Samantha), and Elegy (people who are dying can see others who were just murdered. Scully sees one but does not tell Mulder until later...annoying Scully habit). Cons: Musings of a Cigarette Smoking Man (too little of M & S), and Sanguinarium (gross episode about evil in a hospital specializing in plastic surgery. I had the beginnings of a migraine prior to the show, had a full blown migraine after seeing all the blood and the shrunken head.). Most overrated episodes: Memento Mori (I did not like the mytharc of Scully's cancer) and Never Again (not alot of Mulder. Dr. Scully picking up a stranger in a tattoo parlor in a bad neighborhood...right. Maybe she wanted to be a bad girl.  Did she sleep with him? Who knows.  Interesting, almost revealing conversation at the end between M & S.). There a very few episodes that I would not recommend watching. This season has very few comedic episodes though--very gloomy season (Scully's cancer began here). I think Anderson won an emmy in this season (Memento Mori).  Both lead actors won Golden Globes.  I would highly recommend Season 4.