In 2005, courtesy Turner Classic Movies

(TCM), I had the pleasure of seeing one

of the most remarkable films ever made.

It was remarkable because of the subject

matter, the time of its creation, the

principal players who brought it to life,

and the director who made it all work,

despite the odds.

The film is FURY, starring Sylvia Sidney

and Spencer Tracy. Made in 1936 for MGM,

it was the work of noted German director

Fritz Lang, the filmmaker who revolutionized

the entire field with his Speculative classic

METROPOLIS, and jolted the field further with

the chilling social indictments delivered in

M.

FURY, in fact, was his first American film,

a towering introspective look into the heinous

nature of lynching, the evil the very act

inflicts upon all involved, and the cancerous

ramifications that such deeds hold for the

well-being of anyone, whether  conspirator or

survivor. Indeed, the most ingenious point about

FURY is its compelling way of showcasing how

such roles can turn in upon themselves, showing

that no one is impervious to hatred, and its

terrible cost.

Point is, of course, that Hollywood-bound

filmmakers were not making films against lynching

in 1936, when the libelous melodrama of D. W.

Griffith's BIRTH OF A NATION yet held sway over

an entire period of lawlessness, where even

Universal monster films had glorified mob rule

as a righteous therapy for a disgruntled grass

roots.

For such a conscientious social drama to be done

at MGM, the home of glitter, glamour, andgiddiness

was a sure sign of the lack of industry perception

and respect that FURY would be subjected to upon

its release, and ever since.

Yet the brilliance of the film speaks its own cause

quite eloquently. It cuts through the bilge that

mob rule comes chiefly from "outside agitators",

that lynching is a spectator sport, and that such

activities come solely from men. Too, FURY is far

ahead of its time in pinpointing the fuel placed

on such volatile matters by a news media more

concerned with highlighting a spectacle for rank

viewership than pinpointing the Truths and Lies

at hand.

Sadly, these are points that are apparently lost

upon noted filmmaker Peter Bogdanovich, whose

commentary for the Warner Bros. DVD release seems

more preoccupied with citing Lang's technical prowess

while persistently denying his ability to deliver

emotional impact. A look at the charged passions

at play in FURY renders such opinionations absurd.

In utilizing camera angles to show a subject's

detachment from pleas of the heart or points of

sobering common sense, Lang avoids mawkish melodrama

and brandishes cinematic artistry of the highest

order; letting the narrative  -and its hapless

participants-  speak its own absorbing

piece.

Indeed, one of the film's strongest points

-totally ignored by Bogdanovich-  is the presence

of African Americans in FURY. While it could

certainly be argued that FURY's absence of Black

people in principal roles is a glaring omission

in a film whose subject has involved the murder

of untold masses of Black people in this country

over the course of centuries, the fact is that

any Hollywood film which depicted African

Americans as something to be respected  -even

in a symbolic light-  was one hell of a daring

move in 1936!

It would have been informative had some light

been shed upon these handful of Black actors

spotlighted in something other than the period's

coonshine caricatures; particularly the young

lady hanging her laundry while singing a wistful

song about freedom, or the bartender whose

comments help to set the film toward its

pulsating climax.

Certainly, having a young shoe-shine boy dash

out the way of a raging lynch mob  -in itself-

makes an emotionally ironic point which was not

lost upon FURY's viewers... or its worst

detractors.

Great work from a marvelous array of character

performers  -among them Bruce Cabot and Walter

Brennan- add to the intricate depiction of the

issues and people involved, and a sharp score

from composer Franz Waxman heightens the depth

of tensions tightening its beckoning noose. Most

of all, Tracy and Sidney are superb in their

depiction of hard-working lovers fighting the

despair of post-Depression America, fraught with

racketeers, political graft, and a dangerous

complacency.

Master Tracy is brilliant as the working man

striving to make an honest living, only to be

imperiled by blind Fate and civic irresponsibility.

Equally the master, Sidney is dynamite as the

sharp teacher who stands as the film's single

voice of unwavering compassion and clear

wisdom.

If the film's period stands out as the years

move on, it matters little. Almost any of the

finest films made will reflect the times from

which they came. Look at the films of Cagney

and Bogart. Yet, the tale and its impact

carries its point of origin proudly, while

effectively addressing untold generations

across the span of decades. Too, the fact

that Lang had considerable conflict with

many parties over FURY's conception does

not lessen the immense success of this

probing story.  One might as well deny

the genius of  SPARTACUS because Director

Stanley Kubrick fought with star & Executive

Director Kirk Douglas over the nature of

that film's content. As was the case in

SPARTACUS,  behind-the-scenes conflicts

seem to have actually contributed to a

momentous, visionary effort with FURY.

It is an effort which deserves its just due as a

milestone in one of the most turbulent careers

in the history of motion pictures. No mere

cinematic curio, Fritz Lang's FURY is a powerful

drama which entertains serious thought about a

subject which still rears its ugly head to mock

decent people, and true civilization, everywhere.