Definitely for adults and an amazing show!!!

This is my opinion about the shows. First of all, a few words about the story. In the near future, the main character, Yuji Kaido, has been diagnosed, as other ordinary people, in having an incurable disease. Because there was no cure available at that time they put him with the others alike into hibernation, supposed for a time span of two years. Unfortunately for them, in the mean time Earth got invaded by alien bucks, called "Blue" and most humans got killed. For this reason, humans retreated to a space station called Second Earth. A few decades later, Yuji was awakened by a soldier among other commrades, who was sent down on earth to find the "sleepers" (and there is a reason for it), in other words the ones that had been put into hibernation. The soldier was no other than Marlene Angel, who is the other main character of the show. In the mists of war, a love story will start to evolve around these two main protagonists who will have to go through various dangers and do everything to survive and to safe the world (well, what is left of it). The story has many twists and although it refers to a (near)future time the messeges that this show "sends out" are all the ones that we are facing nowadays, like the environment, human behavior towards others, military/political power games etc. In the show we see a possible outcome of our actions.

SPOILERS INCLUDED!!!

Some explanations that I consider important so that the people who read our reviews and are wandering if to buy the shows or not can have a better picture of the shows.

As for the battle scenes, yes they are brutal and realistic. To get a better idea, if someone is caught up in a war zone and his or her friend gets shot etc. then of course blood and body parts will fly around. That is how REALITY is and that is what is shown in these series.

Moreover, the series try to present things as they would be, if something like this would happen for real. For instance, Yuji comes more or less from our time continuum and now he is confronted with what human beings, after these experiences, consider to be appropriate. To simplify matters, Yuji sees things with today's values but Marlene, at the beginning, is cold, sleeps around etc (something that changes later on). She justifies her actions in saying that if she doesn't know if she is going to be alife the next minute than why shouldn't she feel alife (well, something among those lines). The question is, if you were in a situation like this how would you re-evaluate your own (or today's) values?

Apart from it, someone said something like, Yuji was "crying" etc. Let us make a comparison: In Evangelion the main protagonist was "crying" all the time till the end. However, many consider the shows as unique and brilliant of its kind (well, me included). Fortunately, and in contrast to the main character of Evangelion, after Yuji gets through the first shock he gets his s*** together and becomes amazing.

As for the storyline, my humble opinion is that it is a very good one, interesting, a lot of action (which is astonishing), violent, science-fiction drama, romance and the character development deep and very well executed. As for the atmosphere of the show, well it is dead serious and no silly things will occur at all; something that possibly would happen in real life if humans were confronted with such threat.

The dub is actually very good.
The animation is very good (of course, there will be definitely a few shows out there that have a better animation).
Now to the main two questions: Should someone watch the shows and most of all buy them?

If you can afford the money, than you should certainly buy it and be reassured that you will not regret it at all.

One more thing to consider: The shows are aiming at a more adult audience - now you understand why it also is ultra-violent, has nudity etc. - and therefore, if you are parents and have very young children, my personal suggestion would be to watch the shows when they are asleep or not around.

About the movie (Blue Gender "The Warrior"):

Well, if you have watched the shows than you do not need to buy the movie of blue gender; which is basically, a "putting-together" of the series with a few changes and a different ending (still a good one, but completely different as the one of the series). The box-set has the entire series and the movie included. The series would get straight 5 stars but the movie not more than 3.

I hope that I was helpful...