I don't think I've ever written a review on amazon despite buying literally thousands upon thousands of dollars on this site(You can click on my user id.  As you can see, I really haven't ever written a review), but this is the first one I will write because I truly am moved by this story and movie.  I bought this on the initial day it was released as I had heard about it, and was just dying to see the movie.  I went to best buy, and the guy I asked about it had no idea what I was even talking about.  My wife and I came cuddled up on the couch, and initially we were going to watch the movie, and then go out for a nice night afterwards..... Needless to say, after watching this move, we were in no shape to go out afterwards.  Being a dog owner myself, I could only sit there and look at her throughout the movie, and just think what her life is like from her point of view, and how she feels every day we leave or go out the door, and her level of excitement when we come home everyday.

This is truly a story of unconditional and eternal love, devotion and loyalty.  Something that only dogs and very can truly experience in my opinion.  It's so sad this never had a theatrical release, as it is an amazing movie, and EVERY single person I have ever referenced this movie to, also is amazed by what a touching story it is.  I cried for over 45 minutes of the 90 minute movie.  Heck, I even cried when I watched the two minute trailer.  After I saw the trailer, I knew I had to buy the movie.  I initially thought I was a total weakling, but after showing some of my friends the trailer, they were bawling by the end too.  If you do not cry in this film, I'm convinced you have a heart of stone.

I think the reviews speak for themselves.  5 stars on amazon is no small feat by any stretch of the imagination.  Very few movies/tv shows are able to earn such a prestigious rating.  Just buy the movie.  You will not be disappointed.  Can't believe it took me so many years to write a review, but I was saving it for something truly special.... and this movie is it.

Go play fetch with your dog for a bit after you watch this, and give him/her a hug and treat.