I've been a Rush fan since 1976 (yes I'm that old!) and, like everyone, my outlook on life has changed considerably during the intervening years.

Having always been an admirer of their musicianship, song writing and arranging skills, they are the only band/artist that I've kept up with and really listened to consistently. Sure, I still listen on the odd occasion to AC/DC (I mean, that's an exciting sound when the time is right!), but on the whole I've left bands like KISS, Judas Priest, Saxon, and Iron Maiden behind many years ago. So, that's a little background, now on to this DVD...

Rush very rarely put together new collections of material these days. There is the forthcoming album "Clockwork Angels" to come, but I'll get to that a little later (albeit in a short form as it's not due out until May apparently).

They have toured a lot in recent years though. "Vapor Trails," "R30," "Snakes & Arrows," and now "Time Machine" were all very successful jaunts and Rush have become one of the hardest working bands around and fair play to them for that. They are taking their music to the masses like never before and are experiencing a renaissance as a result. Good for them.

I don't have a problem with the amount of DVDs they put out either. I think it's great that fans who couldn't make the concerts have a chance to see the show, even though it's through camera lenses. After all, to get to see the gig you missed over and over is a great trade-off for just under $20, right? Of course it is.

What I have a problem with is the attitude coming from the band these days. "Snakes & Arrows" was musically one of their best ever. Producer Nick Raskulinecz had Rush playing how most Rush fans had been yearning for them to play for years. It was a nod to "Hemispheres" (that chord!!), "Permanent Waves" (the end of "Far Cry" continues, for me at least, to remind me of the ending of "Jacob's Ladder") and almost made it to the heights of "Moving Pictures."  Almost.

Lyrically, it was pretty angry, but not pretty. Neil Peart's lyrics have often come in for a bashing over the years. "2112" was called "crypto-facist" by a moron at the NME, and have been called various unsavoury names by countless journalists who have long since embraced obscurity. Rush have kept on rolling unabated as has Peart.

The lyrics on "S&A" were a vicious broadside at religion (but mainly Christianity). Peart has become an acolyte of British, and long since discredited anti-intellectual atheist bigot Richard Dawkins, (and I say discredited because someone who peddles hatred like that immediately loses any argument they may have had - and millions of atheists are completely embarrassed by his vile nonsense). Even the new album, by all accounts, is lyrically along the same kind of lines.

So, it's a shocking development, that Peart has "come out," as it were, in such a nasty way (on his blog he even mentions the pathetic "skygod" epithet...never thought he was a childish name-caller, but there you go). He always seemed like such a reasonable man, willing to take all things into consideration and give space to things he didn't agree with. That is obviously not the case, that's if it ever was at all.

But, finally, on to this DVD. On the special feature section there is another particularly telling moment of how ugly Peart has become in his elitism and crushing dislike of all things he doesn't agree with or like.

During a humourous intro video (Gershon's Haus of Sausage looks like a must-visit to me!), part of the script stood out as nothing more than a childish aside by Peart. During various versions of "The Spirit of Radio" (including a a pretty groovy 70s disco version), there is a country version. Geddy Lee's character rolls his eyes, but after "Rash" (the pretend house band in the video intro) finishes that version, Peart utters the sentence "music for morons." Unfortunately, this is typical of Neil Peart these days. He has fast become a man that dismisses entire swathes of populations as "morons" or "stupid" because they believe in certain things or listen to certain music.

Over the years, I have listened to country music and enjoyed some of it. I listen a lot to Alison Krauss & Union Station, Faith Hill, and many others. So, the questions begged Neil are: Am I a moron? Is everyone that listens to country morons?

There is a nasty elitism that Peart is infected with. He obviously feels, as does the rest of the band (or they wouldn't allow these lyrics and attitude to stand), that anyone who doesn't buy into their belief system is a "moron." It's inarguable as it's right there in front of us, in colour, front and centre and it's big time ugly and bigoted (and I feel so sad about it, but it can no longer be denied or ignored).

The performances on this DVD are fine, but not spectacular, efficiency personified. Yes, I know, I've left it long enough to talk about the performances (great to see "The Camera Eye" performed again after so many years, and it's a stand-out for sure), but certain things needed to be said, so I said them.

As for the next CD, I'll have to hear it before buying it (and that's never happened to me before with Rush). Quite frankly, however, I'm sick of being insulted for my beliefs, as well as my likes and dislikes because they don't line up with Neil Peart's or the rest of the band.

I'm probably going to get hammered by the Rush Patrol for this ("don't feed the troll," "you don't have to buy Rush products" yada yada), but I expect nothing less. Or maybe I should say, I expect nothing more.

Some of you will disagree with me vehemently, and I support your right to do so. Some of you may even agree with me, but you will be few and far between. I'm off to listen to Alison Krauss now, as a fully paid-up, card-carrying member of the "Moron Club" should. Bye y'all!