"Conviction" is the story of one woman's fight to have her brother's conviction for murder overturned and have him released.

A brother and sister are raised in a dysfunctional family where they receive little structure or discipline. Breaking into homes and stealing things become their barren source of amusement and excitement. It also gets the older brother in trouble with the law at an early age, but the bond between brother and sister have already been established and remains as they mature in society with the sister, Betty Ann Waters remaining within the norms of society married, raising a family and tending bar. Her brother, Kenny, played by Sam Rockwell is another matter, as he is quick to brawl and thumb his nose at society.

Betty Ann Waters', played by Hillary Swank is turned upside down when her brother is convicted of a murder she is certain he did not commit. There is only one thing for her to do. She must get her high school equivalency diploma, graduate from college and law school, pass the bar and get her brother's case reopened. She manages all of these things at the expense of her marriage and alienation of her children.

We see Counselor Waters struggle to get each piece of evidence to find the smoking gun that will lead to her brother's eventual release. This appeals to the audience's sense of justice and respect for the loyalty and industry shown by one sister toward her brother. Sam Rockwell plays his part as a chameleon, loving father and brother with a big heart, to the impulsive ne'er-do-well who is hard to cheer for his exoneration with the same passion, even though you feel his frustration with one setback and disappointment after another. Both bring intensity to their roles, but Rockwell is given more leeway in demonstrating his talent.

Then there's Juliette Lewis who plays the ex girlfriend and current hard drinking and smoking trailer trash, who would have stolen the show if she had more script to play.  Playing a half-inebriated slob in need of dental work, you are convinced she is a pathetic character only concerned about her.  Melissa Leo also turns in a superb performance as the unrepentant cop you love to hate. Minnie Driver returns to Massachusetts from her previous role as Matt Damon's boyfriend in "Good Will Hunting," becoming a friend to Betty Ann, and assisting her legally and emotionally in her quest.

"Conviction" is original and based on a true story which means, in this case, that it actually happened. I judge many movies based upon my willingness or desire to see them a second time, and I am very glad to have seen this, but I do not plan on  watching it again. There are no lines or scenes that will give me a greater personal connection or tie loose ends. A breathtaking story in real life, it doesn't quite achieve breathtaking status in film.

Watch it for the acting.