The idea of human trafficking existing for the pleasure of the silent rich to torture is both believable and disturbing on many levels. It touches the nightmare of captivity and the absence of humanity, just pure evil for one's sick private world. Apparently Eli Roth who wrote and directed the first two Hostel films got the original idea when he came across an article that suggested destitute families in Thailand would sell family members to well financed criminals and in turn businessmen from Europe and the US would pay $10,000 to walk in a room and shoot the sold individuals in the head. Shocking and very upsetting.

`Taken' (2008) gave us the action and the probability of how huge the human trafficking trade is in the world while the Hostel films just trims the fat off to give you the meat of unbearable acts one human can do to another who's strapped to a chair. Watching these films you can actually imagine the very real possibility of yourself being suddenly taken away and no one will know where you are and you can't escape. That is why this horror franchise stands above other lame film imitations. You will notice the influence of the brilliant `Hangover' films in this third instalment, it's almost a bloody carbon copy horror version of `The Hangover' (2009). The opening scene is great and unexpected, the ending could have been awesome. Unfortunately the makers decided to have a predicable comedy ending, just like so many other horror films do because they are fearful of taking risks. Giving the audience what they want instead of what they don't expect. I hate safe.

Putting aside the awful ending I enjoyed this episode, Eli Roth was not involved so I was interested to see how this one would pan out. I love the concept of the `Elite Hunting Club' whereby members have the round bloodhound tattoo. For this film franchise it's a great private members club title with a consistent brand tattoo design. The Vegas environment here is a nice glitzy touch which is a visual contrast for when a lad's stag experience goes horribly wrong.

The way the torture chambers are presented in this feature is the best in the trilogy. However, the actual torturing moments lacked the horrific impact of the first two. The first torture scene I found rather unbelievable, but hey, then again what do I know. I'm not in the medical profession nor am I a sicko psycho surgeon. So the nastiness is toned down here and it could have been really uncomfortable and imaginative if the right creative team was on board. Hostel III is gentle brutality compared to the other two but it did hold my attention. To bring the franchise way ahead of acceptable same old same old horror, if they make a fourth episode, whoever produces and directs need to create an experience that will be traumatic, unexpected and compelling. Or else it's best to leave the blu-ray box set as a trilogy.

bleedingcritic
bleedingfilms.com