The production values on this show are fantastic, making it one of the most expensive shows in history to produce. The acting is supurb and the plot conflicts are captivating. In the wrong hands, this could have been a poorly contrived miasma of failed attempts. But the writing is supremely tight without being stilted.

CARNIVALE goes beyond gothic or any other label. It surpasses what we have come to expect from TV. Some complain about multilayered elements of the plot and the fact the no plot lines were brought to a conclusion in the first season. However, much was revealed and the plot was made even more captivating in the manner in which these revelations were accomplished.

Some viewers complained because the creator admitted that he himself was not sure how parts of the story would go. THANK HEAVENS!!! At last, a TV series that is being given the freedom of a groundbreaking novel. At last, a writer in this field with the ability, historical background and sensibilities to let the characters drive the plot, rather than just be two dimensional devices to move the plot along.

Other viewrs have complained about the intricacy of the plotline itself. If you cannot follow the long phraseology of a symphony with appreciation, stick with the Monkees. In the same way if you do not have the firepower or sensabilities to appreciate the sheer beauty of a plot and atmosphere, as complex and symmetrical as the lines of the Mona Lisa, stick with the Brady Bunch-but don't try to take the symphony away from the rest of us who can appreciate it for the groundbreaking work of art it is.

If you cannot stand the idea of a story where the characters become so real that they influence the plot, stick with Stephen King's version on KINGDOM HOSPITAL, where all plot points are brought to goofy resolution, but let the rest of us enjoy the original Lars von Trier version, incomplete, with little resolved, but full of wonder, delight, humor and irreverence. Only HBO could make a miniseries such as CARNIVALE, which rivals the original Danish KINGDOM, but with greatly improved production values and continuity.

Plese, please try to think outside the box, especially the one marked "TV" and let this perfect crystal continue to grow and shine and not deteriorate under the usual hack writing that we have all become hypnotized into accepting as art.