A bicycle courier, Jim, awakens in the hospital after an accident and finds that he is incredibly alone.  There are no nurses, no doctors, no janitors, no other patients, nothing.  There is only the deafening silence.  He manages to wander down into the streets of London, where he finds absolutely no one.  Finally, after stepping into a church, he finds a mass of bodies all together - and also manages to find a zombie-like priest who seems possessed.  Jim only manages to escape the zombies with the help of two strangers, Mark and Selena, who quickly fill him in on what has happened in the past 28 days - a virus has spread throughout England, causing "the infected" (the zombie creatures) to attack anyone who is not infected.  The virus has spread so rapidly that nearly all of England has been either infected or killed.  Families no longer exist, there is no government, there is no army, there is nothing but a struggle for the non-infected to make it through one more day.  Jim and Selena team up with a father and daughter in search of a group of soldiers who promise salvation from the infection - but once they reach the blockade, one has to wonder just who the monsters are.
I really liked this movie.  The first part of the movie with Jim discovering the vast quietness that has enveloped London is particularly great - there is virtually no sound at all, and you almost feel like you are wandering the deserted streets with him.  I did wonder, however, how Jim managed to survive for so long in a hospital with no one to care for him.  I don't know how long he was in the hospital, but in the coma-like state he was in, surely he would have died within a few days with no assistance, if merely from lack of water.
I also had a few more questions about the movie...surely the zombies would have died within 28 days.  They only ate the non-infected, they never seemed to drink anything, surely even zombies need water?  I also wondered why the infected didn't turn against one another, but only attacked the non-infected.  Maybe it had something to do with the disease, I don't know.  Anyway, just because I had a few questions about the movie, the experience wasn't ruined for me!  :)
The movie really made you think, because in just 28 days "civilization" itself had pretty much disappeared.  The soldiers who weren't infected were pretty much becoming animals themselves.  There was no respect for others, no qualms about killing innocent people, etc.  I really don't know if that is realistic or not, as thankfully I have never been put into such a dire circumstance, but I imagine that it could conceivably happen as the movie portrayed it.  That is the scariest part in my opinion - humankind turning against humankind, and destroying itself in the process.
I didn't particularly like the ending, but the alternate theatrical ending (included on the DVD) was much better.  There are three endings in total included on the DVD, so if you don't like one, you can always pick another!  :)  Altogether, I believe this movie is a definite plus to any DVD collection.