This is truly a dream cast! Colm Wilkinson (Valjean), Philip Quast (Javert), Michael Ball (Marius), and Lea Salonga (Eponine) especially make this anniversary concert a must-have for any Les Mis fan. 
Be warned  though -- this video is NOT a replacement for seeing the musical live! It's  an abridged version with several edits and less props and acting.  If  you've never seen the musical before... wait before you buy this, or you'll  probably be either confused or disappointed.  If you have seen this musical  and love it, DEFINITELY get this video! It may not be a replacement for the  musical live, but it's a nice little memory of it. Turn the video on and  sing along to it while you're at home :)
I've seen Les Mis in London's  West End.. the cast there was great, but this video has the definitive  "dream team"!
Colm Wilkinson's Valjean is powerful and  passionate, but gentle all at once.  He has a spectacular voice, especially  in "Who am I?" His is a great counterpoint to Philip Quast's  interpretation of Javert... whose strong, forceful singing is breathtaking!  Quast's rendition is amazing... his strong booming voice is also somehow  tragic and haunting.
Michael Ball and Lea Salonga are (in my opinion) the  reason why you should get this tape!  Wow.. Michael Ball is THE Marius...  listening to his beautiful, elegant voice could bring anyone to their  knees! With Michael Ball as Marius, it's no wonder Marius gets all the  girls in this video. His duet with Lea Salonga in "A Little Fall of  Rain" is exquisite: perfectly in harmony, perfectly acted! Lea Salonga  was beautiful as Eponine. Yes, she was "bitter"... but Eponine is  a bitter character! Her "On My Own" is passionate and bitter, yet  sad and resigned... Salonga is truly one of the greatest!
Ruthie Henshall  as Fantine was great in "I Dreamed A Dream"... what I thought was  the most tragic song of the entire musical. Judy Kuhn as Cosette was good  too, but a little nasal-y in "In My Life". Little Cosette didn't  miss a note and Gavroche was pretty adorable too.  The Thenardiers (Jenny  Galloway and Alun Armstrong) were hilarious and provided the necessary  "comic relief" in this otherwise tragic tale.  They were great  fun to watch....
All in all, a great, grrreat video!