I have been a part of the Metallica Army for many years now, and when I first found out that the guys were going to play with a symphony, my heart leapt into my throat.  Being a former musician for eight years, I have a deep love and appreciation for classical music, and the overall sound of a symphony orchestra.

Being a Metallica fan since the 1980s, I have a deep love and appreciation for their awesomely bombastic music and ability to take simple musical notes, and weave a song that hits hard and deep on the emotions.

That said, I purchased the CD of the S&M concert, and immediately fell in love.

The fact that the concert opened with Enrico Morricone's "The Ecstacy of Gold" was more than enough for me.  When the first bell tone hits, and the solo trumpet plays along with the swelling roar of the crowd... it's enough to give you goosebumps.

Then, at the climax of the song, you hear the crowd scream their heads off... that's because James is entering the stage, solo.  I would have done the same thing myself.

So, after an amazing performance of "Ecstacy", I get to hear something I didn't expect at all - "The Call of Ktulu."  From what I understand, this was the first time the guys had performed Ktulu live.  Well, let's just say that that song is an awesome one in itself, and the addition of the symphony orchestra just made it thousands of times better... I loved how Ktulu and "Master of Puppets" were seamlessly transitioned.  It was truly awesome.

The entire concert is full of energy, as you would expect with Metallica, and the orchestra just seems to pump them up.  It's a two-way effect.  The orchestra keeps pumping up Metallica, and Metallica pumps up the orchestra, and the fans are feeding off it all, simultaneously.  And the fans keep Metallica and the Orchestra going.

Okay, so, after I bought the CD and wore out both discs in my car stereo... I had to see if the concert was video taped.  Thank God, it was.  I ordered the DVD immediately, and when I got it, I watched it continuously.  I loved it so much.  Seeing them live and hearing the music was almost too much for me.  I still love it.  In fact, a friend of mine borrowed my DVD, and he lost it, so, I'm ordering another one as soon as I finish this review.

If you are a fan of Metallica, buy this CD, and buy this DVD.  If you like classical music and are open to new experiences, buy this CD and DVD.  You won't be disappointed.

I would give this 1 million/1 million stars if I could. 5 ain't enough.