(Written by the teenager in residence)

Upon first hearing of Hop, I had high hopes for it. Although the premise - holiday figure gets injured in accident, everyman has to replace him - has been done before, one detail caught my eye - "From the people who brought you Despicable Me". Despicable Me is one of my favorite modern-day animated films, with interesting (and entertaining) characters, solid plotting, and a good dose of heart. Naturally, I expected this movie to be on the same level, or at least have some solid execution. It delivered in the entertainment value, but it left a lot to be desired.

Story: 7/10 - As mentioned, the premise combines several cliches - kid has legacy, kid wants to be something else, kid runs away from home, is in danger of having his birthright or whatever stolen by some other guy if he doesn't make it back home before a certain date. It also has the standard everyman who can't hold a job, but has his life changed when he accidentally injures, maims, or even kills a holiday figure (in this case it's the former) and eventually finds his place in the world. It's been done a million times, and the fact that said holiday figure is a talking CGI animal and the humans are all in live-action draws parallels to Alvin and the Chipmunks.

Depth: 4/10 - Now, a cliched premise is not a bad thing, and some works have managed to excel despite (or because of) their uses of cliches (like BlazBlue: Calamity Trigger), although mileage varies. A bungled execution, however, is certainly not good. The interactions between the human protagonist(Fred o'Hare) and the rabbit (E.B.) don't have much of an emotional impact - it's same old, same old. There are some interesting plot points that never get explored further - E.B. wants to be a drummer, rather than the Easter Bunny, but we're never really given a clear reason why (except for "touring the world", but his father (the incumbent Easter Bunny) points out that easter bunnies go all over the world, too). The Pink Berets, sent to bring E.B. back home, aren't developed, don't have a single line of dialogue, and are generally incompetent (they mistake a Butterball for a bunny by the end). And the fact that the easter bunnies live on Easter Island could have been used for some interesting, if far-fetched, plot points - maybe the Moai are actually sentient guardians of the factory where the Easter Bunnies make their candy? But no - all of these plots are wasted.

Characters: 5/10 - Most of these characters are underdeveloped and underused throughout the movie. For example, Fred fits squarely into the archetype of "beleagured slacker with a good heart", and doesn't show much depth except for his desire to be the Easter Bunny. To his credit, he does show that he's willing to work for his goals, but that's really it. The main villain, Carlos, is an obvious bad guy with cliched motives, but he is the most sympathetic character - considering how big of a jerk the Easter Bunny is when Carlos tries to show that he can be competent, it's easy to understand why he's so ticked off. The sad thing, though, is that we never see that Carlos could be a good easter bunny - indeed, when he takes over, he almost ruins the holiday experience for non-birds. All of the human characters except for Fred and David Hasselhoff (don't ask) are underutilized as well - his older sister, Sam, is used to give him a job interview that E.B. fumbles for him and a lecture on responsibility, but doesn't really do anything else. His younger sister, Alex, acts like a jerk and hassles Fred during a family dinner, but ends up upstaged and humiliated by a "ventriloquism" act that comes across as disproportionate karma. The whole scene doesn't have that much of an impact on the main plot, either, except for straining Fred's realtionship with his family even further. And don't get me started on the Pink Berets - seriously, don't.

Entertainment: 8/10 - Despite these glaring flaws, Hop proves to be entertaining on the first go-through regardless. It's only when examined with a keen eye that the fridge logic sets in. The jokes are relatively funny, the animation is fluid and avoids uncanny valley, and the soundtrack is decent, although not magnificent. The MST3K mantra - "It's only a movie, I should really relax" - applies in full here, but it still manages to be a nice diversion overall.

Overall: 24/40 - Like I said, there are many flaws and cliches used in this movie. There are a lot of wasted plots and potential characterization gone down the drain, but it still manages to be a nice experience on the first go-through. My recommendation would be to see it once, laugh a lot, and don't think too much about it. For the kiddies, take them to see "Rango" - a vastly superior animated experience - or watch "Despicable Me" again before you go see this. It's a good time on the first go-through, but overall, it's just... meh.