Hollywood seems forever hell-bent on producing contenders for the dubious honor of Most Unnecessary Sequel Ever. But despite awesome new entries like Speed 2: Cruise Control and The Lost World: Jurassic Park, the crown continues to belong to Jaws III.

Whereas the unnecessary sequel Jaws II still had Chief Brody, Jaws III features the now grown-up Brody boys (Dennis Quaid and John Putch) at a Sea World theme park in Florida, far from Amity and Roy Scheider. Quaid is about to unveil a mammoth, man-made lagoon attraction, which, you guessed it, will quickly become a shark-feeding station. Now meet the rest of the cast: Louis Gossett Jr., Lea Thompson, Simon MacCorkindale and, as Quaid's girlfriend, Bess Armstrong. Needless to say, you'll be rooting for the shark from the first frame.

Just as you're thinking that the underwater picnic can't begin soon enough, a shark gobbles up a lone diver working on the gate between the lagoon and the open sea. When the victim fails to show up at home, his angry girlfriend is certain he's with another woman--"I tell you, the man's trash!"---but Quaid and "senior biologist" Armstrong fear something worse and set out in a submarine to investigate. Two pet dolphins follow along, apparently with the intention of proving that dolphins are smarter than people, for as Quaid and Armstrong leave the sub to swim around, the dolphins warn them of impending danger by shaking their heads back and forth. Sure enough, a shark suddenly lunges for them. Lacking fingers to shake at the foolish humans, the two dolphins rush over to Quaid and Armstrong and offer them rides to safety. For the second time, the shark fails to get them. Why? For one thing, it resembles a giant inflatable Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade balloon and moves about as fast. To become this shark's dinner you'd practically have to swim into its mouth and throw yourself down its throat.

Faced with the alarming prospect of a killer shark in an underwater theme park, Armstrong has an idea: trap the beast and turn it into an attraction. "This is crazy!" roars Quaid--the very words he failed to say to his agent after reading this script. Naturally, the troop goes hunting for the shark, and, naturally, the shark promptly attacks, but MacCorkindale deters it by conking it on the snout, about which we only say: don't try this at home. Inexplicably, the shark proves easy to capture and becomes an endearing pet. Finding Armstrong petting the shark in the tank, Quaid jealously jumps into the water, saying, "If this is the only way we can be together!" Armstrong primly hands him a plastic bottle with formula for the shark. It's a Jaws III-way. When the park opens to the public, nymphets in hot pants succeed where Quaid and Armstrong have failed--they come upon the shredded torso of the missing diver. Ever the aquatic professional, Quaid takes one look at the remains of his pal and barfs.

Armstrong realizes... well, let her tell it: "Our shark couldn't have killed him--its mother did!" Yes, the captured shark's 35-foot great white mama is fiendishly racing around the lagoon, which is now filled with tasty tourists. After knocking people out of a boat and overturning bathers on a wooden raft, the killer shark simply scratches one person then politely stops. (Is it any wonder this movie was nicknamed Gums?) But things pick up when MacCorkindale cages the mama shark (don't ask) and then neglects to leave the cage himself. This allows for a genuinely laugh-out-loud shot of MacCorkindale's view from inside the shark looking out--a peak moment in sharkcam cinema. The body count begins to go up until the thing you've been waiting for finally happens--Armstrong gets attacked. Alas, Quaid rescues her before she can be safely devoured. Quaid then saves the day by detonating a hand grenade inside the shark--a fitting ending for this legendary bomb.