I first saw this polished gem of a film when I was thirteen. Of course at that age I was blown away by how cool and clever it was. And I think I always will have an affection for it, because despite not being as amazing as I thought, it is a genuinely smart and cool movie, nearly perfect within its own niche.

The 'usual suspects' are a group of career criminals rounded up to take some heat for a truck heist. Notable among them are Dean Keaton (Gabriel Byrne), a corrupt cop attempting to return to the straight and narrow, and Verbal Kint (Kevin Spacey), a crippled con-man. To make the best of a bad situation they plan a few jobs together. However, they quickly find themselves falling deeper and deeper into a web of violence woven by the mysterious master criminal Keyser Soze, who demands payment from all of them for past misdoings. Their story is told in flashback by Verbal to a zealous customs agent the morning after a disastrous attack on a ship in the harbour leaves him the only survivor.

I believe that the statutory limitation on spoilers must have been passed by now, but be warned if you continue reading.

A few people seem to see this as a standard crime caper with a twist ending, and one that means that the whole story does not make much sense. But it's not really about the story, it's about the fabrication of the story and what it says about the ego of the one telling the tale. The ending deconstructs the slick pretensions of 'cool' crime movies. The evil of Keyser Soze is revealed in the way he tells his own story. To his mind crime is a flashy world of wit, legendary figures, tragic decisions and ruthless exercise of the will. If you pay attention to the details of the story that must be taken to be accurate, they actually paint a picture of a sociopath who uses people and then brutally kills them. The trick this devil pulls is to make us believe that his actions make him more than a man, make him a mythical figure beyond normal humanity, thus bolstering his self-image.

So in thinking that this film is clever and cool perhaps I am dancing with the devil. The charm of The Usual Suspects is that it allows us to live inside that dream world for a few hours and enjoy the ride. But then, pfff..it's gone.