I didn't become an avid fan of football until the mid-nineties, caught up in the euphoria of Barnsley's promotion to the Premiership in 1997, a glory chaser I became but have remained loyal to my home town and given the many seasons of pain and despair I feel I have redeemed myself. Being a fan of football I had heard of the legendary manager Brian Clough but he had achieved his greatest feats before I was born so the opportunity to learn more about him was one I didn't want to miss when I approached The Damned United.

The film was advertised as being about Brian Clough's (Michael Sheen) 44-day management of Leeds United in 1974 but it is divided between that turbulent tenure and the early days of Clough's managerial career when he turned lowly Derby into the champions of England. Clough's time with Derby is initially one of admiration for Leeds United, the best team in the country, and their successful manager Don Revie (Colm Meaney). When Derby have a Cup game against Leeds when they're a lowly Division Two team, Clough is excited at the prospect of footballing greats coming to Derby. However, the meeting does not end well with Revie ignoring Clough and his team winning 2-0, courtesy of their trademark nasty tackles and cheating tactics which infuriate Clough and convince him and assistant manager Peter Taylor (Timothy Spall) to turn Derby into a success story and defeat Leeds and Don Revie. Given the vicious rivalry it is something of a surprise in 1974 when Clough takes the manager's job at Leeds following Revie's departure to become England manager but why and how does it all go wrong for Clough?

The Damned United is based on the book of the same name which is said to be largely fictional in tying together the key events of Clough's time as Leeds manager. Further reading has confirmed many of the dates and events are not accurate but the film still offers a very good outline of Clough. It veers between the 44-day tenure at Leeds and Clough's days at Derby. The meeting with Leeds in the FA Cup is a dream come true for the ambitious manager who believes Don Revie will be a gentleman when he arrives at Derby with him and Clough having grown up in similar streets and played for the same clubs. Instead, the Leeds team enter Derby's ground like gods and Revie doesn't even look at Clough, who has overseen an intense makeover for the ground, personally taking on some of the cleaning duties himself. This snub from Revie clearly affects Clough who watches the game quietly only to become animated at the antics of the Leeds players. After Leeds win, Revie shakes hands with Peter Taylor and Derby's coaching staff but once again ignores Clough! It's in this moment that Clough and his Chairman Sam Longson (Jim Broadbent) first come to blows as the vengeful manager buys new players including Dave McKay (Brian McCardie) without consulting Longson. The result is an unbeaten run that propels Derby from the lower rungs of Division Two's ladder to the very top. The following season they rub shoulders with Leeds once more but suffer a 5-0 defeat. Undeterred, Clough signs more players and when the two teams next meet Derby win 2-1 while Clough waits in the dressing room, unable to watch the game himself. Clough and Taylor lead Derby to the top of Division One and the following season to the semi-finals of the European Cup. Prior to this mid-week game Clough gambles on playing his best team against Leeds just for the pride of beating them and Revie but Leeds' players go to work on Derby's team leaving them with injuries and a depleted squad for the European game against Juventus which Derby lose. It's the beginning of the end for Clough.

Clough's days at Derby end with Peter Taylor having a heart attack, Clough criticising his chairman publicly and then issuing resignation letters for both him and Taylor to strengthen their positions only for the letters to be accepted! Clough and Taylor have an acrimonious fall out and go their separate ways when Clough agrees to join Taylor at Brighton only to spurn them in favour of Leeds. The 44 days at Leeds couldn't be worse. Prior to a press conference at the club Clough goes on Yorkshire Television and criticises Don Revie and Leeds as a bunch of violent cheats that have won nothing fairly and under him that will change. It doesn't! Clough faces a rebellion from the players, led by Billy Bremner (Stephen Graham), who criticise his every word and still long for the days of Don Revie. Revie's presence at Leeds' matches does not help Clough but equally his public criticism of Leeds and their players leads him down a path of no return. Outspoken and egotistical as Clough is, you have to have some sympathy for him as Leeds manager with the suspicion that the players are deliberately not trying. When Clough's brief reign ends he wants revenge in the form of another interview with Yorkshire Television but finds three seats waiting in the studio, one for him, one for the host and horrifyingly one for Don Revie!

The Damned United may embellish some of the facts and indeed some of the dates of events while Clough was at Derby but it is never a dull experience. Sheen is excellent as Clough, a naturally gifted manager but one with a big mouth that led him into many controversies. The rivalry with Revie is fierce and much of the blame seems to be with Revie, especially when he denies ignoring Clough or not shaking hands with him when they first met. The film's highlight is Clough's friendship with Peter Taylor who he dismisses as nothing when he goes to manage Leeds but in the end it is Taylor that has Clough on his knees begging for forgiveness at the film's end. Wisely Clough acknowledges that all his success is Taylor's as well and this proves to be the case in the aftermath when we learn both men reunited to manage Nottingham Forest and together took the lowly team to the top and won two European Cups in a row, a feat yet to be equalled by another English manager. It's somewhat fitting that Clough emerged from the hellish 44 days at Leeds to build himself back up, while Revie failed as England manager and ended his football days in obscurity overseas. Beneath all the controversies Clough was a great manager and is aptly regarded as the greatest never to have managed the England team.

The Damned United isn't completely accurate to the true events but it gives a fascinating outline to the darkest days of the managerial career of Brian Clough. Boasting some good performances and as much action off the pitch as there is on it, this should appeal to many football fans but also those who want to know more about the man who once said " I wouldn't say I was the best manager in the business. But I was in the top one."