"The Producers" is the essence of the cult film. You either love it or you don't get what all the hubbub is about. Those of us who love it, really love it.
By now, the plot is familiar - a crooked producer (Zero Mostel) cons a nebbishy accountant (Gene Wilder) to help him pull off a scam to net a million bucks (a lot in 1968) by producing the greatest Broadway flop ever. The opening credits sequence - a seduction between Mostel and an 85 year old Estelle Winwood (Hold Me, Touch Me) in which you have to ask who is seducing who - is riotous, and from there the comedy escalates.
Mel Brooks fans may be disappointed because this is the most un-Brooksian comedy he's made. It isn't a genre parody or a pastiche, it's a genuine farce with a plot that builds and twists and turns, with the characters going further and further out onto the limb with every twist. By the time the opening number of "Springtime for Hitler" unfolds, complete with dancing stormtroopers and chorus girls with pretzels and beer on their breasts, you can't believe you've suspended your disbelief quite so far, and you can't imagine what's to come.
At its heart, though, "The Producers" is sort of a coming of age comedy. Gene Wilder is as manic as he's ever been, but it his vulnerability that really sells the role of Leo Bloom. Zero Mostel is a force of nature, all bluster and bull, but is also the older brother who Bloom never had, who takes him under his wing and shows him the world. And Ulla is ... just Ulla, the Swedish Tease.
After years of wasting away on VHS, it's great to see this movie as a crisp new DVD transfer. (I've never seen the blacks so black before!) The extras are a mixed lot. The "Making of" documentary is well done, but the sketches and photos are presented in no order and with no context. Lee Meredith is a bit of an embarrassment (though still in great shape at 55!), and a little of her goes a long way.
But the movie is a comic masterpiece. The lines are still quotable today, Brooks is as unashamed of bad taste as ever, and the performances are all spectacular. Ever with no extra features, it would be worth it to have this movie remastered and preserved on DVD for a new audience. I first saw "The Producers" on TV as a kid, when my uncle made my cousin and me watch it with him. Hopefully this new transfer will introduce Bialystock and Bloom to a whole new legion of fans.