Describing this movie is pointless - every Star Trek fan in existence has seen it countless times.  The reason to buy the 2-disc DVD are the Special Features that are located on it.  "Captain's Log" has recent interviews with William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, Christopher Lloyd, and Robin Curtis.  It also offers a look back on the film from it's inception to the premiere.  "Star Trek Universe" has interviews with the designers and model makers of the space dock and Bird of Prey that are seen in the film.  It has Marc Okrand (a linguist) talking about how he created the Klingon and Vulcan languages.  "Terraforming and The Prime Directive" features NASA scientist Dr. Louis Friedman discussing the Genesis device and the Genesis planet and how we are now in the infant stage of the real thing as plans for making Mars habitable are underway.  "Archives" has many photos taken during filming of the movie, and the storyboards.  There are other features on this DVD such as commentaries, the creation of Klingon and Vulcan costumes and jewelry and the theatrical trailer.
I love this movie and never get tired of watching it.  My two favorite scenes both involve Enterprise; first when the ship is coming into space dock showing her battle scars and second when Enterprise is destroyed.  Sometimes I think Enterprise is the real star of this movie.  I already had Search For Spock but when the 2-disc DVD came out, I simply had to have it.  It is a must have for the Star Trek fan!  The interviews with the stars are very enlightening and entertaining and the "look back" is very interesting; I learned many things I didn't know.  The designers and model makers talking about special effects and how everything was made is wonderful, and although I can't speak Klingon or Vulcan, Marc Okrand discussing the languages had me in awe.  (How can anyone CREATE a language?)  Dr. Friedman discussing the greenhouse effect NASA will be creating on Mars and comparing it to the Genesis planet was very educational.
If you are a true Star Trek fan, you will buy this DVD!  It is a must have!  As Spock would say, "Fascinating."