I am a writer for www.theindyexperience.com and I thought it would be fun to do a review here. I have been an Indy fan for sixteen years and I am stunned by the amount of reviews here on Amazon. It's great to see so many people reviewing my favourite series of films.

Firstly, Raiders of the Lost Ark is my favourite movie out of the trilogy. Last Crusade is very personal to me, but I'll get to that later. I won't explain the plot, because that has already been covered here.

In my opinion, Raiders of the lost Ark is a visually stunning masterpiece and the greatest film ever made. I have been lucky enough to see this movie on the big screen three times in the last two years, and it just emphasises what a truly great movie it is. From a DVD point of view, when this wonderful trilogy was released on this format, I was thrilled beyond words. I have to say that Lucasfilm have done an absolutely fantastic job of restoring these films. After many years of watching these films on VHS, the DVD format is a blessing. I despair of anybody out there who has not seen this movie, as I feel that it is better than anything that has been released in the cinema for almost the last 25 years. Raiders was made at a time when there was no CGI, and films were made using models, props, miniatures, matte paintings and traditional moviemaking techniques. Raiders has to be one of the best loves movies ever released and it's great to see that this film receives positive comments, even now. Harrison Ford is absolutely magnificent as Indiana Jones, the archaeological adventurer searching for the Lost Ark of the Covenant. The supporting cast are wonderful, and Karen Allen gives a fantastic performance as Indy's old girlfriend, Marion Ravenwood. The locations and sets are a sight to behold and Spielberg's direction is perfect and one of his greatest achievements to date. John Williams' adventurous score adds to the greatness of this movie, and every piece of music is perfectly crafted for each scene.

Regarding Temple of Doom, it's a real shame. Not a shame about the movie, because I love it, but because of the negative comments about it. Okay, Indy's second cinematic adventure can be incredibly dark in places, but saying that, it makes up for in sheer fun. One of my favourite posters for this film is English, and I basically like it for its positive comments. "Spellbinding, wonderful stuff!" says one. "Thrill a minute blockbuster, the pace never lets up...you're left breathless with excitement", says another. I have to say, I totally agree with these reviews. I think it's a great movie and such a shame that others don't enjoy this for the great film it is. The mine cart chase is great adrenaline rush and the rope bridge is one of the best scenes in the film. Once again, the locations are stunning, and even though most of this movie takes place indoors, the sets are pretty impressive.

Moving on to Last Crusade, this was the film that made me the Indy fan in the first place! I know that many people like this movie and I think that one of the reasons is because the wonderful chemistry between Harrison and Sean is fantastic! I remember the first time I saw this movie in the cinema. I was totally blown away. It's funny, exciting, adventurous and has some of the funniest scenes that I've ever seen. If I had laughed any louder in the cinema, they would have probably thrown me out!

Okay, so we all know that George Lucas created Indiana Jones, but lets face it, Harrison Ford was the one who breathed life into the character and made him three-dimensional, and what a performance! In my opinion, this guy deserved an Oscar for at least one of those movies! I'm sorry to be biased, but Harrison being my favourite actor was incredible in these films. Not only is his acting magnificent and believable, it has to be said that he also looks absolutely gorgeous! Oh, those hazel eyes...

Ahem, well, on to the bonus disc...

Not to sound negative, but personally, being a huge Indy fan, I would have loved to have seen more stuff on this disc. The trailers are pretty cool, check out the Raiders re-release one: "Indiana Jones, befriended by Sallah, pursued by Belloq, and loved by Marion..." Very interesting. The documentaries are both interesting and informative, and there was some footage there that I had never seen before. I'm surprised that they did not include the fantastic documentary known as: `The Making of Raiders of the Lost Ark' as I'm sure there are many fans out there would have really enjoyed seeing it. The only thing that I am unhappy with regarding the bonus disc is the cut scenes, and there are at least ten from Last Crusade. Having said that though, perhaps they are going to save them for a future release.

There are many great film series out there, but for me none is as quite a good as this trilogy. You have a wonderful set of movies here and the bonus disc is both informative and fun.

If you haven't bought these movies yet, please do yourself a favour and buy them as soon as possible. There is a lot of good stuff out there today, but I feel that nobody can make films quite as good as this.