Okay, granted this movie is questionably gory, yes it's a film with an unpopular subject, and yes, it has David Arquette.  That's all okay,  because the rest of this film is delicious.  Oh wait, that came out wrong.  No, really, the movie was filmed very well, and the acting was incredibly  good, a sure highlight for Jeffery Jones, but This film, from almost every  angle, was brilliant.  From start to finish, it moves through  post-modernist film-styles to hokey slapstick, all the while manipulating  your reactions to it.  It's a two faced movie, the ultimate black comedy, a  contemporary macabre.  To illustrate it's manipulative nature and confusing  but extraordinary demeanor, we look to a scene of a psychotic cannibal  chasing down a scared-to-death preist in the woods, his chuckles audible  within the painful cries for help.  Our normal response is, well, not good,  as I would've viewed the scene as frieghtening enough, until...the music.  With a banjo/twang booming over this sadistic chase, we can see that the  film is most effetively humorous when the humor is post-production in  origin.  If it weren't for titles (a quote from 'anonymous':"Eat  me.") and for the music, this film could've been passed off as a  brooding drama.  Thank god it wasn't because I haven't laughed that hard at  Jim Carrey.  I thought to myself, perhaps the actors weren't even aware of  what was going to happen in post-production, because they keep straight  performances, strictly drama.  The acting is superb, as I mentioned, and  Guy Pearce continues his great work as seen in the previous film "L.A.  Confidential".  The same applies to Robert Carlyle, a wonderfully  psychotic slapstick actor and dramatic, see "The Beach".  All in  all, this film was strong to the points of script, good lines and  characters, music, photography, acting, directing, and of course, make-up  effects.  Don't be too afraid of this admittedly gory film.  I tricked my  squeamish parents into seeing it, and they loved it.  Bon appetite.