And I agree with the reviewer who says he expects a story to make some sense!

I've seen so many movies lately which make no sense at all, assuming audience is a bunch of idiots with 5 second memory span, it's "amazing"!

This film has so many problems, in plot, performance, dialogs..

Plot makes no sense cause who in their right mind would move their 2-children family from a big city to a middle of nowhere run down farm hoping to "hold the family together and get back on their feet financially"?

Btw why couldn't he (the father) find work in the city for 2 years?

And why would they employ a drifter and have him live with them just cause he happened to stumble upon their farm? And then when the father gets his hand cut, both mom and dad leave the kids on the farm, with the same darn drifter, sorry, their employee, staying around the house?

Why did the dead kid attack the girl (Jess)?

Why was trhe dead family trying to pull her into the dark?

Are the ghosts more vicious than the man who killed them?

How can a family of 5 disappear without a trace and noone asks any questions?

How can you buy someone's house if they just "vanished" from it? They are still the owners, or?

What is the meaning of the man coming along with the "what you paid and 15% plus" offer?

Why did the crows attack the father and later the drifter?

Why did the dead family, after they pulled the man who killed them (their father/husband i.e. the drifter) into the.. dunno what that was.. mud that kinda appeared in the basement, also try to pull the girl (Jess) in?

etc etc

Dialogs are amazingly stupid. You would actually have to see the film to know what i mean, which I don't recommend.

Performance.. the kids' (Stewart and Turner twins) performance was the best part of the movie.

McDermott totaly unbelievable in the role, as well as Miller (she also got shockingly old).

Yea, I'd say this film sucked pretty bad.

My ex BF said he enjoyed it, but I'd say it's thanx to the Stewart girl, who is a really pretty sight. So don't think that opinion counts :p