I love music, and country music. I also love a lot of the actors and actresses in the movie so I went expecting a "Pure Country" or even a "Coal Miner's Daughter" kind of movie.

Instead I got a movie with some exceptional acting, great music, and an amazing story.

I will first make a comparrison:
Love and Other Drugs was similiar in that it deals with a lot of human element and complexities. However, that movie was so OVERLY sexual that it watered down the emotion. And while I love Anne Hathaway and thought she did some great acting I didn't like her character. In the end I didn't think he character developed and still felt like her character was very selfish and that they both were. It was a very co-dependent relationship.

Country Strong was so much more. It was what I wanted Love and Other drugs to be. (Spoiler Alert) You wont' find a happy ending here but the complex story of Kelly Canter won't leave my mind. Paltrow was a perfect pic for this character as she almost has a sadness in her eyes, a certain quality.

Kelly Canter is a famous celebrity who's lost her way in life. After losing a baby when she fell of stage during a concert (she tripped over a mic cord, but she was intoxicated) she goes to rehab where she stays for about a year. James Canter, her husband checks her out early from rehab to help her get her career back. Kelly'd not ready to leave rehab and a friend who works at the rehab and sings at local bars and dance halls comes on tour with her- Beau.

Kelly Canter is now KELLY CANTER. Her entire being is her "celebrity" and she's no longer herself anymore. All she really wants is for James to love her. She longs to escape the life she's living but when she tries to talk to James about this he refuses to see the real Kelly anymore.

There's so much pain between them, and you watch Kelly's life jump off the tracks and spiral out of control. It's very painful at times. James and Kelly have a complex relationship that's become more about business and more about KELLY CANTER the headliner than Kelly Canter the woman. Kelly continues to make bad choices and it's clear she's had a mental breakdown. Only Beau can see this and while he's in love with her all of her demons push him away.

Meanwhile Chiles Stanton (Leighton Meester who does a great job) is the pageant queen girl trying to break in to stardom. She turns out to be more complex than she seems on the surface and in the end Beau falls for her. She wants the limelight though and wants to be the next Kelly Canter. Beau gets a taste of it and decides it's not for him. He can see what fame has done to Kelly. How it steals every piece of you. He just loves music and wants to go back to singing in dance halls.

James Canter will push Kelly at any cost. His love for Kelly has become so entagled in his desire for her to suceed and be KELLY CANTER that he can't see how broken she is. "She use to be strong. I don't know when she became so fragile." he says to Beau.

There is such a struggle in this movie between two people who love each other and hurt each other in so many ways. It shows how complex a marriage can be. How complex the "celebrity" personality can be and how even those close to you can blur the lines between real and pretend.

You'll find hope at the end of the movie when two characters decide to leave that life behind. Unfortunately you'll also find pain and sadness, when sometimes it's just too late.

There is not a character in this movie that is not deeply complex. You're heart will break and bleed for them even as you watch them hurt each other and make avoidable mistakes. These characters too do selfish things to one another but what will stay with you is the pain that love can cause when it won't let go.
You'll see the intensity that is so hard to show between two people as you peel back the layers on James and Kelly's marriage.