I am not sure whether this movie was advertised as a comedy. If you're going in expecting big laughs and fuzzy tingles trickling up and down your sternum, don't watch this film. It is so unbelievably bad that it will only leave you depressed.

I can't say I'm a fan of Jennifer Anniston or Vince Vaughn. I mean, these two people created the term 'Type Cast' for crying out loud. Jennifer sits there and plays a likeable little lady and Vince is a wise cracking moron. You get the sense immediately when the film starts rolling as they meet at a baseball game. Vince is so overbearing and obnoxious you're begging for the concrete mezzanine at Wrigley Field to break apart and fall onto his section, his row, and his seat as it does a couple times during the summer.

The credits show cute snapshots of the two together. Kind of a montage of their.... I don't know, months together before they buy a condo.

As soon as that Director credit fades out, it's one hour and thirty minutes of the two bickering. It's not that that couldn't be entertaining, but the problem is that you're never able to tell whether or not they dislike each other. She is a neat freak and he comes home and plays video games for a good half of the movie. Then they sit in their respective rooms and either cry or stare into space like they're in a drunken haze.

That previous paragraph epitomizes 'The Break Up'. What I just wrote probably didn't make any sense and this movie doesn't, either. At least it gives millions upon millions around the world the joy of knowing this production brought these two has-beens together in real life. I'm really happy now, Lord. Could you please get Julia Roberts and Sean Penn a script so they can get together and form another Annoyacouple? Pretty please?

Mix in your poster woman for a Art Dealer-of-a-boss for Ms. Anniston, her effeminate coworker who looks like the lead singer for Creed and a family who sings in a glee-club and you've got...well...absolutely zero entertainment value, really.

I will say that there is at least one aspect of this film I deem as true "entertainment value". When you're watching this it is truly astonishing how many more chins Vince Vaughn and his buddy John Favreau get during the production. About every other scene you and your significant other can take a stab about how many polish sausage sandwiches and Schlitz tallboys these guys must have put down after they wrapped for the day while shooting in Chicago.