This is a 2 disk set.  The main film is, like "20 Million Miles to Earth: 50th Anniversary Edition", on 1 disk in both a digitally-restored black & white original version and newly colorized version.  This is made possible by a process Sony calls "Chromachoice".  This allows you to switch between the color and b/w versions of the film at any time by simply pressing the "angle" button on your remote.  It's a good idea but some would argue that it's flawed in execution.  I'm one of those.  On my player the "angle" icon comes up every time there is a chapter stop and will NOT go away until I press the "clear" button.  This is very annoying but at least I can get it off the screen!  Based on reports on "20 Million..." other players will display this icon the entire film.  There may or may not be a way of disabling this on your player.  Frankly, I would rather choose from a menu which version to watch as the novelty of switching wears off after a while and the annoyance of the constantly appearing icon does not.  While this is possible you still get the icon "popup" at chapter stops.

Special features on a 2nd disk are:
Audio Commentary by Ray Harryhausen and Other Visual Effects Specialists
Featurette: Harryhausen on Earth vs. The Flying Saucers
Featurette: A Present Day Look at Stop Motion
Featurette: Tim Burton Sits Down with Ray Harryhausen
Featurette: Interview with Joan Taylor
Featurette: David Schecter on Film Music's Unsung Hero
Featurette: The Hollywood Blacklist and Bernard Gordon
Video Photo Galleries
Advertising Artwork video montage of film's ad materials by Producer Arnold Kunert
Sneak Peek of Digital Comic Book Flying Saucers vs. the Earth

All-in-all a good package for a classic Harryhausen film marred only by "Chromachoice" which reduces the score from 5 to 4 stars.

If you are concerned about possible problems with "Chromachoice" on your player, I recommend that you borrow/rent a copy of the newly remastered versions of "20 Million Miles to Earth" , "Earth vs. the Flying Saucers", or "It Came from Beneath the Sea" first to check your player for compatibility issues.