It seems that everyone who's seen this film has quite alot to say about it, most of it brilliant, however this is a film that needs to be watched with all preview and review blinders on.  Granted, it can be seen as surreal and may need a bit of explanation about the fact that Anderson liked absurdity to tip toe throughout his films, particularly the loosely connected "Mick trilogy"( if, O' Lucky Man, Britannia Hospital = school, work + death respectively).  The Color & b/w filming was because of a tight budget and to accidentally/on purpose enhance the message of this film to the eyes of many, such as myself; as I can't help but notice that the switch in lenses doesn't seem arbitrary, does it?  Please approach this film as the "forgotten main character", Jute, approaches the school so you can fully take in the experience as he does.

Can life lessons be learned?  Well, often those in power are cruel, boring, out of touch, thoughtless and lost in their world of accomplishment.  The whips under them are violent, arrogant and ambitious to take the place of the headmasters or the CEOs of any corporation when those in power meet their ends.  The rebels are misguided reactions to the whips, and to those in power, often hedonistic and ultimately raging beyond any anarchy to their own brand of tyranny, and therefore are, by no means, a solution to the problem.  Funny how some rebels share a bonding for some of the most mass-murdering fascists the world has ever known. They become nothing more than romantic pawns in the endless cycle of violence that is part of our nature.  Lindsey Anderson and Malcom Macdowell allow you to experience this first hand as the 1st form students by not reading any further about this movie.  This film was meant for anyone who had gone through schooling and survived.  The final scenes are meant to be addressed to those in the theater and not just the characters on screen.  That's really all that should be said.  This is a must see.  For anyone who takes sides, this movie might make you realize that no side can be absolute, or even, right.