With a one, two punch, this movie knocks your senses for a loop. 
Brooklyn native Diana has lead a life of trouble. She seeks it like a bee does honey. Any fight that comes her way she will take it, any challange that faces her she tackles it--the hard way. Growing up in a bad neighborhood with her emotionally abusive father Sandro and younger brother "Tiny" has not been easy. Especially since Diana's mother committed suicide years before and left Diana and "Tiny" without a gentle mother figure to protect, love, and look up to.
Marisol, a girl from school, is Diana's only friend. While Diana sees Marisol more like someone who needs her protection against people who will take her for granted, Marisol sees Diana as violent, tempramental, but a loyal friend. They get along because they understand the boarders of each others character and for the most part accept it about each other.
Diana soon finds a way to channel all of her inner aggressions when she sets out to pay Hector, a local boxing trainer, to train her to be a boxer. Overcoming hardships and gender differences she excels and learns where she can be accepted for the agresstion and power that she has inside her. And finally she finds a place to fit in. In the boxing ring.
Adrian has always wanted to be a boxer and has trained for years to become a pro athelete in the sport to make some money as well as a little fame from the Brooklyn side of town. But when he finds himself becoming interested in the aggressive yet pretty Diana he finds himself questioning things about himself he has never had to face before. And soon, as they are pitted up against each other he must determine what is more important, love or winning.
This movie has some slow parts here and there and in essense you want to see MORE fighting going on than really happens which can make it a little frustrating. I mean, you really want to see this chick set someone to the mat, esp with all the gender hardships that happen in the gym but beside all that you see enough for some great eye candy. This movie hits home for me. It is one of those feel good movies that speaks to the heart and yet has enough hostility in it to show the darker side of personalities and hurt and be glad that I've never been in THAT much trouble before.