I don't know who to blame here for this movie i'm just glad I rented it on demand instead of buying it.

The way I look at it the martins was well done and executed-ed but the humans was a total failure.
The only good human was Gribble and even the 3D animator managed to foul that up.

This movie would of been at least 59% better if it was live action mixed with 3D animated martins.

But it's not all white wash failure of a movie the gadgets was an awesome concept and the story is extremely daring and best to be avoided by any overly impressionable children who's beliefs can be influenced by movies.
And the alien Ki who has the best physical acting in the whole movie is welcome change with her 60s reference lines, And use of flower tags.

The movie still manages to hand it's views the all two traditional sappy happily ever after ending.

I just hope if they do another mars needs moms sequel or at least a remake they will use a different 3D animation studio to do the humans or at least make it live action mixed with 3D animation.

My end review is this.
Motion capture suits with all the human roles acting drowned out into robots. Big minus.
Milo's mom look's more like a male then a female. Another big minus.
Milo's mom get's next to no screen time. Huge plus.
Cleaver gadgets That is both fun and interesting to watch.
The martins are both fun and well animated with very expressive dialogue.
The alien Ki is a very fun twist on a 60's style flower power girl.
Gribble has brilliant dialogue to bad he is ruined by poor 3D animators.
The story is very daring and best avoided by any one who thinks movies are real or believes every movie has a message.

All in all this movie will not be a hit and will no doubt be a miss.
Watch it? I'd say once
Replay value? Two times may be three?
Worth it for the aliens? Yes if you can stand the crappy job on the humans.
Should the studio take another stab at this movie? Yes, Re-shoot the human scenes with live action, and hire a kid for the role of Milo. Then it would be perfect.
You give it how much? 2 1/2 stars no more no less.
Does this movie suck? Sort of.