With his postapocalyptic world and medieval cowboy look, Vampire Hunter D is undeniably one of the coolest vampire-slaying antiheroes out there.

And the cool fact gets ramped up in "Vampire Hunter D: Bloodlust," which is loosely based on Hideyuki Kikuchi's third novel about this half-vampire hunter. This one is a dark amalgam of loneliness, tragic romance, spectacularly gory action scenes, and some glorious post-"Ghost in the Shell" animation. Not to mention a wonderfully horrible villain.

The vampire Meier Link has abducted a wealthy young girl named Charlotte, and her desperate family hires D to bring her back -- or kill her if she has been turned into a vampire.

But D has competition, as the rough'n'ready Marcus Brothers (and hard-bitten "sister" Leila) have also been hired to catch Link. But when D catches up to Link, he finds that apparently the vampire and the girl are in love -- and Link has his own trio of lethal mutant bodyguards, who do their best to decimate the Marcus Brothers' numbers. And he unwittingly earns the anger of Leila, who is annoyed that a hated dhampir saved her backside.

But even knowing the facts -- and threatened by the Mutant Barbarois -- D won't give up. He and Leila follow the lovers to Castle Chaythe, an enormous fortress ruled by an ancient vampire named Carmilla. But in this castle of shadows, blood and nightmares, D's true power begins to shine when Carmilla attempts to destroy him... but what of those around him?

The two "Vampire Hunter D" movies were made fifteen years apart, so don't expect "Bloodlust" to resemble the first movie. This one is sort of "Ghost in the Shell" with a bizarre sci-fi vampire/gothic twist, and a somewhat bleaker storyline -- although nowhere near as dark as the original book.

In fact, it cranks the gothic grandeur up to the max -- dark crosses, enormous gilded palaces, dark pillared halls, sweeping capes, blood-soaked dreams and somnolent music. Even the scenes in a futuristic Western town (complete with yokel sheriff), airborne mantas and a startlingly green forest with a ruined palace can't stifle the darker dimensions of this story.

The plot of "Vampire Hunter D: Bloodlust" unfolds rather slowly, with different motives being unveiled as the story goes on. But along the way, Yoshiaki Kawajiri peppers the story with kinetic, blood-soaked fight scenes (with iron capes, killer vines, astral projection and a giant wolf-face on a guy's stomach), building up slowly to the gruesome battle with Carmilla. Her final duel with D is stomach-turning, much like her red barbell hair.

But it's not all action and zombie attacks -- Kawajiri sprinkles in some dark humor ("My NOSE!") and some poignant scenes for the tragic lovers, like Meier's daytime attempt to rescue Charlotte.

D himself gets fleshed out nicely in here, despite being a dhampir of few words -- we get to see his loneliness, discrimination, his mommy issues, and his fondness for small children. And despite all his powerful fight scenes, we get to see his more vulnerable moments as well. Even if he does look a bit silly buried up to his neck as he carries on a conversation.

Since he rarely talks, most of the conversation comes from Left Hand, who provides sporadic comic relief ("You're not really bad. You just dress bad") and insights into D's mind. And Leila is a pretty brilliant female lead -- tough, rough, hard-bitten, but still able to reluctantly befriend D when she realizes that they're not that different.

"Vampire Hunter D: Bloodlust" is a dark portrait of postapocalyptic horror, done with beautiful animation and lots of blood'n'crosses. Definitely a must-see.