It was absolutely painful to watch how vulgar and pathetic Mr. Bad Santa was.  Disgusting and offensive.  Selfish, chauvenistic, hedonistic in the most primitive fashion.  I have a great sense of humor and can have fun with dark comedies so I did snicker a lot but there were times my modest side had to look away from the screen.  But the underlying plot was a welcoming surprise, as soon we are introduced to a character in the film who I never expected to be the shining star (SPOILERS COMING UP).  He meets this boy who is completely persecuted by his peers and we cannot tell if he is mentally retarded, or just sheltered due to negligence, or hiding his brilliance for good purposes or bad.

Now I am never one to impose religion on anyone, but if you have any value for Jesus Christ, be it you believe he was a wonderful man, a special prophet, or God himself in the flesh, then here is an interesting analogy I found in this movie which truly inspired me.  Think of the stories about Jesus. OK he wasn't a pathetic figure, but did he not walk amongst and accept the lepers, prostitutes, and other sinners?  Moreover, what was Jesus' main lesson - "turn the other cheek".  This man was so mean and cruel to this boy who was always NOTHING but nice to him, the boy personified this lesson of simply turning the other cheek, and giving unconditional love.  There is an important story that Jesus is claimed having said in the Bible (again, you may or not believe in the Bible here, but it's worth noting).  I don't remember the exact words verbatim but the jist of what was written was this: "It's easy for us to love those who are good and kind to us.  We don't get credit in Heaven for that."  This little boy pursued being calm and good-hearted and giving despite what happened, and eventually the love did start to mirror off of the boy onto Bad Santa and grow in his heart. (Remember when he taped back up the Advent calendar? I had a tear in my eye when the boy found the aspirin!) I am hoping this can work for me because I have been having a lot of moments where someone close to me in my life has been treating me rather cruel for no good reason and it always upsets me greatly.  I am going to remember how this boy acted and hope that facing the roaring lion in my face with calmness and love will squelch the anger/meanness and bring out the better side of this person that I used to know and still have respect for.