This film is one that grows on you over time.  At first viewing it seems sub par to the first, but then gets better with repeat viewing.  Much like Beverly Hills Cop III.  Maybe over time it gains a nostalgic factor?  The last two reviewers are really F'ed in the head!  They are both way off the mark.  The film was shot in the Bay Area and sorrounding region.  Much was filmed in the central valley of California, and the prison was the same one as in the first.  The music is one of the best parts of the movie.  I really like that steel drum sound.  What I don't like is when they try to repeat things that were naturally funny or well recieved in the first film.  It just seems forced and unamusing.  Reggie did eventually recognize the Iceman, but it was difficult, because he only caught a glimpse of him once a long time ago, and was probably scared crapless when he did.  A cop that is the head of a crime ring is the perfect cover, and he would keep going to work everyday to keep his cover, and use his position and knowledge as a police officer to be even more powerful and in control.

There are always things done in films that are unreal and exaggerated.  I don't think we all believe there is an island out there with dinosaurs on it, do we?  I mean Breaking glass at a prison visitation booth, really isn't that far fetched, or unbelievable, now is it?  Maybe some of the scenes were filmed down in LA, but suppose to be San Francisco?  I do know that a lot of it was filmed in the N. California area.  Maybe all the liberal crybabies didn't want a violent film shot in their beautiful city?  Maybe they just thought Frisco had become too gay to shoot in?  Who knows and who cares, that's the least of the problems with the movie!

The first film was the perfect buddy flick, and had the perfect combination of humor and drama.  Most would agree, so if you don't you're a minority, and most likely WRONG!  Hell, they wouldn't even have made a sequal if the original wasn't so successful, because it was so well done!  The first is a Classic, and the sequel is noteworthy, and gets better as time goes by.  I would definately enjoy sitting down with a nice cool drink, an array of snackables and enjoying both in one sitting.  And that's the name of that tune!