For anyone enchanted by the ancient myths of fairy lore, your collection is not complete without this wonderful documentary by John Walker, "The Fairy Faith". Total running time: 77 minutes.
He takes the viewer on a magical journey through England, Scotland and Cape Breton, interviewing locals and listening to their stories about the "little people". Many of these people's beliefs are downright questionable, and I often found myself laughing and raising an eyebrow at what some of them had to say, but I did sometimes catch myself wondering if these mysterious creatures really are just legend or if they truly do exist? I for one find it hard to believe the latter as I am more of a logistic thinker but as I look back at my childhood, I wonder if some of the things I saw and experienced as a small girl were simply a figment of my imagination or if I was seeing it all with more clarity than I ever will again because I was not yet corrupted by life as an adult - living, in the rational world, to believe that there's reasoning behind every unexplainable, supernatural occurrence. Perhaps as we grow older we build a shield around ourselves, refusing to accept things we can no longer see with our own two eyes? I'm certainly not convinced that there are fairies dwelling among us but this documentary at least makes you ponder these things...

The cinematography is absolutely stunning, and the drawings they show amidst gorgeous, traditional Celtic music are beautiful to behold and listen to, magnifying the already breathtaking landscapes. But what I enjoyed most about this DVD was the interview with artist Brian Froud, who mostly talks about his dark, mischievous fairies, and how he became enthralled with them. And yes, he does believe they're fact, not fiction.
I also found it sad how many four to five-thousand year old trees - or "fairy forts" as believed by some - were cut down to build a new highway. It reminds me of how they built a highway near stonehedge and how that ruined the sacred, mystical beauty of the place.

I still question my faith in these strange, elusive creatures but if there's one thing I've learned from this well-executed documentary, it would be to not interfere with a fairy if you were to ever encounter one as they are not all sweet. Nor are they forgiving!