There are actors who can totally become the character they portray, to the point where they're almost channeling them:  Meryl Streep, Helen Mirren, Tina Fey...  Sean Penn is one of those actors.  He totally becomes Harvey Milk, the first openly gay politician elected to office in the U.S., in appearance, voice, and mannerisms.  It helps that Penn, with half Lithuanian and Russian Jewish ancestry, strongly resembles Milk, needing only the same haircut and perhaps some Grecian Formula to complete his physical transformation.

I think Penn is one of the best actors of our time.  He's a heterosexual who can very convincingly play a homosexual, and a schmuck who can very convincingly play a nice guy, in this Academy award winning best actor performance.
.
But the main reason to watch this movie is not to marvel at Penn's acting skills.  There's important political history to watch, with implications not only in San Francisco where he was elected after several attempts, but in cities and states all over the U.S., and internationally, such as in homophobic Jamaica, where openly gay behavior carries up to 10 years in prison.  Unlike black history where school children are taught about how Rosa Parks refused to sit in the back of the bus, and women's history, where children learn about Susan B. Anthony and other suffragettes, who is ever taught about gay civil rights?  A movement still very much underway, as gay people fight for the right to marry, receive spousal benefits, and visit their dying partners in the hospital.

San Francisco wasn't always friendly to gay people.  Gay merchants and renters were routinely discriminated against, as the movie shows.  But gay businessman, Harvey Milk, had enough, and organized voting power and buying power into social justice, forming alliances along the way, including the powerful Teamsters union.  Penn perfectly captured the humor, charisma, media savvy and grassroots organizing it took to accomplish this.  Milk paved the way for San Francisco to become more gay-friendly, and for other cities to follow suit, including Houston, TX, the 4th largest city in the U.S., which elected their first openly gay mayor in Dec. 2009.  The movie also shows how Harvey Milk was an important force in derailing the bigoted Joseph McCarthey-esque statewide Briggs Initiative, which would have required the firing of gay teachers and their supporters in the California Public Schools.

So watch the movie to experience Penn's fine acting, as well as the fine acting of his supporting cast, but more importantly, to see and *learn from* political history.  Those interested in fighting the Anita Bryants of today, might want to pick up a pen and take some notes.  (Anita Bryant was a former beauty queen and Florida orange juice promoter who organized fellow born again Christians to discriminate against gay people.)

P.S.  As someone who was around in the late 70s, I marvel at how well the movie got the feel of the era down.  Men's and hair styles, oversized by today's standards eye glasses, makeup down to the blue eye shadow, the cars--all authentic.  I was glad someone had saved some old push-button office phones with the flashing hold buttons, typewriters, Zenith color TV's, and an old cassette tape recorder from the late 70s.  That stuff seems so old-fashioned now, but it was state of the art modern back then, as the phones weren't rotary, the typewriters were electric and not manual, and the tape recorder was much smaller than the reel-to-reel.  I really felt like I was back in the late 70s, disco music and all.