This is one of the few movies that really changed my life.  I have read the book, and I do understand that this movie is not neccasarily the best representation of that, but I have to remind people that there are a lot of very faithful movies that fail as movies.  I know a lot of people who will never love Kubrick's the Shining because it is so different from the book that they can't love the film for being a great, but different film.  This movie is not as subtle as the book, and the directiion to the actors is not to indicate so.  However, I still read a lot of reviews that the movie was still too slow.  The movie is georgious and slow and romantic.  The film is about a lawyer who is engaged to May, but falls in love with Michelle Pfiefer's character.  DDL is tired of social norms, and so is she, though they can not be together, because she can't get divorced from her husband.  The beginning of the film is about his longing for her, and trying to get around social graces to be with her, and it rings true of first love or puppy love, before she goes back to her husband, and he gets married to May.  She comes back and he is after her again with burning loins, until finally she refuses him.  May confronts him with her pregnancy, and DDL makes the responsible solution to settle down.  What is most striking is that he is happy, and in his old age, after May dies, he is too content to go after his old flame.  He has led a content life.  Ultimately what is striking to me, is that under the pompousness of the society, they are looking out for his best interest, trying to save him from himself.  The current culture to follow your heart or what's in your pants doesn't work.  The Upper class got that way and remain that way because of rules, and you shouldn't throw your life away at rebelious youth.  He makes a smart decision.  It's not hollywood, or sexy, but is happy with his children and the life they have together at the end of his life that he can look back and have no regrets.