Most fans of Glee have been saying on Tumblr, Twitter, etc., that this season did not live up to season 1. I'm not sure if it's because I was influenced by those people or not, but I do agree with that opinion.  For example, the murder of Quinn's story line turned a likeable character from season 1 to a character that can easily be disliked in season 2. The obvious focus on Finn and Rachel's relationship throughout the entire season got old by the middle of the season. There were many upsides to compensate with some of the downsides, and one of them was the music. Maybe it's because I'm younger, but the newer music in season 2 as opposed to the 70's, 80's, 90's music in season 1 was one of my favorite things about this season.

The Warblers were also a welcome change to the show at first, but when I had realized that Blaine alone had gotten more solos then Tina in only one season, the fangirling died down. While I love the Warbler's music and sound, they distracted from the characters from the first season that deserved that kind of attention and character development (i.e. Tina, Mercedes, Mike, Artie). It provided a good storyline for Kurt's character, which included a quite dapper boyfriend (YAY! FINALLY!), but was there was ultimately to much camera time for the Warblers, camera time that should've been used on the New Directions.

Quinn's character personality murder. I personally loved Quinn in the first season, when her head cheerleader front was brought down by the occurrence of her child Beth. It allowed her to be a role model for teen moms that watched the show. In season two, though, Quinn's character was used as a prop in the development of Finn and Rachel's relationship, and frankly, WHAT WAS THAT LUCY CABOOSY BUSINESS? In the 'Born this Way' episode, this out-of-the-blue character plot line seemed like a last minute decision on the writer's part, and Quinn was again used to help Rachel's character, which is already more developed then it should be. Dianna Agron's acting saved the character a bit for me, and I applaud her for that.

The constant neglect of Mike's, Tina's and Mercedes's characters. While all three were highlighted in 'A Night of Neglect' it only became more obvious to people that they were being neglected both as members of the show and of New Directions. None of their talents are to be wasted, and while Amber Riley and Harry Shum Jr., had amazing acts in 'A Night of Neglect', will Jenna Ushkowitz EVER be able to finish a song? She is probably the most neglected character on the show, even though she was an actress on Broadway and has a great voice. Her talent is not something Ryan Murphy and the writers of Glee should take for granted and I hope to see more of her in season 3.

Sam and Lauren. I love Chord Overstreet and I'm disappointed that he's leaving the show. His character Sam provided Quinn a softer side for a short time and I'm going to miss him. Lauren Zizes, played by Ashley Fink, provided another member for New Directions, a comedic character, and a girlfriend for Puck that could give him a taste of his own medicine.

'Brittana'. Naya Rivera and Heather Morris were both background characters, pawns in Sue Sylvester's plans, in season 1, but the 'Brittana' storyline was a breath of fresh air for season 2. One-dimensional characters were given depth. Rivera's acting was simply phenomenal and she does deserve a Emmy more then anyone of the show this season. Morris returns as the hilarious Brittany S. Pierce, who proves to be not as stupid as everyone thinks by the end of the season. This couple was my favorite part of season 2 and I hope that they'll finally get together in season 3.

Gwyneth Paltrow. I enjoyed Gwyneth's appearances, as she turned out to be quite a good singer. Holly's loose, fun personality is a relief from Mr. Schuester's uptight personality.

The absence of Sue Sylvester. This was one of the major faults of season 2. Jane Lynch is undeniably the funniest part of the show, and without her, Glee isn't...well...Glee.

The season finale. Wicked and Jonathan Groff are two things that I love, and both of them were a disappointment to me. Wicked, in my opinion, is the best broadway musical of the decade, and Kristin Chenoweth and Idina Menzel are two people that are nearly impossible to live up to, and Chris and Lea just didn't do it for me. Jonathan Groff's appearance is welcome but not used properly. Patti LuPone's appearance was something I didn't expect, but Finchel's date was a bit TOO corny and unbelievable. Charice did an amazing job as well. By the end, the episode was pretty good, but it couldn't compare to season 1's finale, which was uplifting and beautiful, despite the fact that they didn't win.

All in all, season 2 was good. It wasn't the show I fell in love with, but I hope that season 3 can be more fulfilling for all of the fans.