Having not read the book, I am unable to use this space as a critique of how the movie and book compare. So skip half of these reviews, and read this one---it IS about the movie by itself.

This is a major league tear-jerker, as it should be. It is good to see a big screen portrayal of the horror and pain inflicted when a child becomes sick. Although we have made huge strides in medicine, I cannot help but to believe that it's borderline barbaric to make a child sicker in order to increase the odds of survival. Having said that, what else can any of us do in a similar circumstance? NOTHING. You live by instinct and emotion---doing the logical or "right thing" is impossible because nobody knows what that is. This is but one portrayal of what such a family might go through.

I believe all the actors here did a marvelous job. Cameron Diaz surprised me; she plays a Mother having multiple internal conflicts, and she plays it very well IMO. Sofia Vassilieva is absolutely terrific as the poor beautiful soul cursed with acute promyelocytic leukemia. Where do these young actors come from?! Amazing. Alec Baldwin, my personal dislike aside, gets my utmost respect here. He's just one of the best at playing these parts, and he certainly showed up for the job during this movie. Btw, I mention the dislike angle to illustrate that the man's acting abilities go a long way to counteract such views. I hope he's around for a long time.

I found the medical emancipation issue quite interesting and new to think about. Although a lot of time was spent on it---maybe it shouldn't have been, it could be that the movie would have been too weak without that extra baggage. Still though, it seemed to flow fine with this reviewer. Another thing that struck me, and I believe it is important to keep it in one's mind, is that events such as these are life's great equalizers. No amount of wealth, power, or connections can make one's life any better when you are dealt one of these hands. You are simply a sitting duck, waiting for fate to do what it's going to do.

The blu-ray edition (at least my rental version) does not have a special features section. This was one film where I missed that immensely; I would have enjoyed seeing interviews of the young actors, to see how they prepared, and how they kept themselves from drowning in the subject matter mentally. For the adult actors (Cameron and Jason Patric), I cannot imagine spending a dozen hours or more every day being immersed in this subject matter. That is why they make the big bucks though.

I recommend this movie.