A friend of mine, whose opinion I usually respect, called this movie "overproduced." And at the time, I thought I saw what he meant; but as I rewatch this movie (which has entranced me since first I saw it) I think I see where he went wrong. What he mistook for gratuitous style is actually deliberate design--design with a purpose, which thereby carries meaning. The creators intentionally draw your eye away from the characters to the details of the city which surrounds them; a city, which as the title reports, is what the movie's all about. It's about "cities" and about "children", and about the relationship that children have, as a human demographic class, to life in cities, which is the Primary Effect of Modern Life. The city is an engine of adversity, apparently consuming children, as all too many real contemporary cities do. But this very adversity breeds intelligence; not in any noticably genetic way, but in a cultural way. For the city has its child survivors, and they are creatures of pure intelligence; living by their wits, their flexibility of means, and their ability to focus on a purpose. And the city not only consumes, but its rich fabric of cause-and-effect also sustains and provides luck for the clever. But the larger forces in human affairs--Industry, Science, Religion, etc.--the forces which have given birth to cities, are all marked by their indifference to children, as are all but One of the adults depicted in the film. "The City of Lost Children" stands as a telling caricature of such indifference that actually exists in our world, and a testament to the survival power of children.
The DVD medium allows you to dissect the seeming "distractions" in the production design, and reveals them as statements of the city's character, as well as simply pure art: the range of scale depicted in one scene alone--from objects measured in milligrams to objects measured in thousands of metric tons (all keys to the narrative)--is fantastic. The scene selection portion of the DVD is done very well, and allows you to behold the larger structure of the film in an informative way.