First, despite the passing of 30 years this well made film is still a very good suspense thriller with excellent acting and pacing. The climatic scene is still a major creep-out, and the resolution scene is still a hoot-and-a-half.

The Stepford Wives touches on many issues popular in America in the early and mid 1970s and even today: the battle of the sexes (Katherine Ross's husband wants her to give up the career she had in New York City before they moved to Stepford), the feminist movement (The heroines don't wear bras but put them on after they've been "turned"), the sexual revolution ("My only tennis partners are two teenage boys with permanent erections." "Oh, really? Send them over to my place."), liberal versus conservative lifestyles, environmentalism ("Maybe these companies are polluting the water and tranquilizing the women in this town."), man's innate desire to create life without the help of women (The president of Stepford's Men's Association--Peter Lawford--is called 'Diz because he used to work for Disneyland where they build humanoid robots.), and the blandness or sameness of American suburbs (Everyone in Stepford drives a big station wagon. For you younger readers, the station wagon was the mini-van of the 1950s, 60s and 70s.)

The premise of this movie isn't silly but serious, and here's why: True, life-like androids aren't the stuff of science fiction but of pure fantasy. However, there are real methods of turning people into automatons involving surgery, drugs and social conditioning which should allow us to cut the makers of the film a little slack, although a story using these methods might have made for a more horrific and serious movie....I haven't read the book.

Since this movie was originally released in 1975 most people seem to agree that the male characters are portrayed as evil (although the men don't give up their wives lightly they do all go through with it in the end.) Feminist activists, leaders, etc. didn't and still don't like the film because the men do prevail and the women are powerless to stop them. They see the movie as more of a male fantasy full of negative stereotypes of women. However, when you see the film it's clear that these sterotypes were played for laughs.

Now, is this movie every man's fantasy? Well, yes, it is. But if you take a moment to think about it, isn't it true that when we realize our fantasies we often discover that the reality doesn't measure up? We men often fantasize about what life would be like if our wives didn't have "issues" or PMS, didn't gain weight or grow old, and never said no in the bedroom because we drove them wild with lust. But the fact is that a quiet, subserviant wife would sadden and disappoint most American men. We don't just want a lover, housekeeper or nanny; we want a partner and best friend. And that's what I came away with from The Stepford Wives. The film is an entertaining examination of American society and some of its more controversial issues, but more importantly it contains themes that left this viewer with a greater respect for the yin & yang relationship of men and women and the very American desire for freedom and the free will to take full advantage of it.