Unlike one of the reviewers who brutally attacked the film as being shallow and boring, I found it very interesting and full of facts that many people are not aware of concerning the life of anyone in the monarchy of England.  It isn't that I find that having a monarchy a necessary thing, however, that said, there are many things that the rest of the population isn't aware of that go on in the life of anyone who happens to be born into that life.  It isn't all glamor and luxury, as it appears from the outside, these people often live very unhappy lives, because they are loyal to the duties that are placed upon them from birth.  No, I am not from England, I just am very empathetic with anyone in a position of power and what the responsibility entails, especially when as in England, the position isn't always sought after, as was the case with King Edward VI.  And no, the things that he speaks of during his childhood, that clearly caused his stammering, are NOT  irrelevant.  they illustrate my very point.  Like the monarchy or anything about it or not, you can at least take from the film, an example of what any ordinary person may go through who has had similar problems growing up.  I personally know someone who has a speech impediment caused by child abuse.  It has affected him his entire life.  But back to the film, I found Colin Firth to be very effective in his roll as the speech therapist.  He was likable and believable and an interesting personality.  I found Geoffrey Rush to be a very compelling character.  I liked him very much and he was entirely believable in his personality and his interaction with the speech therapist.  Not too touchy feely, as hollywood likes to get with these kind of parts.  That would have been entirely unbelievable in this setting.  Helena Bonham Carter was also good in her roll as the kings wife.  It illustrates that not all in the royal circle are stuffy and stiff.
The film is a true story, which I especially like to watch, in this day of make believe and so much fluff and no substance or anything of any value to say at all.  This story, outlines a very important time in world history, the dawning of WWII.  It does this very briefly, but never the less, it adds to the weight of the entire story, of a man thrust into the roll of King, in a country who played a crucial roll in whipping the Nazis ass.  No this fact is not part of the film, it is just something you think about after seeing the end of the story.
All in all, I found the story, the people and the way it was put together, to be of excellent quality.  Bravo!!!!!!!