So I bought Dread on dvd and, after reading various reviews on the film, both here and on other websites, I was fully expecting and all out gore-fest...such is not the case with this movie.  I have seen many past installments of the After Dark Horrorfest and some have been quite gory while others have not.  There were a couple of pretty graphic scenes involving evisceration and ax-murdering, and one now notorious anti-vegetarian scene involving a steak that had me wincing and turning away from the screen...the steak scene even summoned my gag reflex, admittedly. But overall, this movie was more psychological thriller than horror.  And there is nothing wrong with that...

The movie starts you out on the edge of your seat and soon simmers down to a low boil.  There is quite a lengthy stretch of mostly talking, some semi-graphic sex, and a few fists thrown...this all goes on for awhile and then the last 20 minutes or so bring you to the edge once again, for a pretty disturbing, if not abrupt ending.

Overall, I enjoyed the movie and thought it was worth my investment of a few bucks.  The acting is pretty outstanding, especially compared to the quality of acting in previous installments of this series.  Most people will watch this film, I'm sure, because sometimes-sparkly vampire Jackson Rathbone heads the cast, and hopefully they will leave this movie with a new appreciation for his craft and less attention on his sex appeal...not that he is or isn't appealing...but he is certainly a capable thespian who is much underappreciated (probably due mostly to the poorly written roles he's become known for thus far, and his unfortunate preteen/teen fanbase).  He did a fantastic and convincing job as sensitive and empathetic, yet traumatized Stephen Grace, and he really has one of the most expressive faces I've seen in films.  It's like when he feels it, he really feels it.  So kudos to Mr. Rathbone.  He should be very proud of the work he's done with this one...

Next in the lineup is Shaun Evans as the deeply disturbed Quaid.  He also does an outstanding job with his character (aside from a wee bit of trouble masking his accent) but unfortunately the movie left me wanting more from him.  It seems as though just when we are gaining some insight into why Quaid is what he is and we are beginning to understand what motivates him, the movie is pushed into warp drive and flown quickly to the end.  That is my one big complaint with the movie.  Just as the characters are fleshing out nicely the movie seems to get sucked into a wormhole and rushed to the end, nearly skipping the climax in the process.  The same goes for the two main female characters.  We are only given a quick glimpse of what makes them tick, or in this case afraid, and then it's onto other things...though Abby's issues are blatantly superficial and kinda hard to miss.  So demerit for the director on that one.

All in all, I think this movie should've been longer; at least a full 2 hours.  With more character development it would've gained 5 stars from me.  But because of the rushed ending and lack of character development, it loses one star from this reviewer.  But overall, it was an enjoyable watch with bankable acting.