Haily Bramer
6/17/2011
Final movie review

A year ago, if someone asked you who Justin Bieber was, you'd probably get a response along the lines of, "Oh, that guy that sounds like a girl?" Now, Bieber Fever is sweeping the nation. From Stratford, Ontario, Canada, one of the biggest pop stars was born from YouTube. This movie is a documentary showing the hard work and dedication he put into making himself the star he is. This young seventeen year old was not handed his fame on a silver platter, like most of Hollywood; he worked tirelessly to get where he is now. In a matter of a year, Justin Bieber sold out Madison Square Garden in twenty two minutes. Originally, Justin had posted videos on YouTube because some family members couldn't make it to his shows. Eventually people from all over found the videos and started requesting more. Scooter Braun, his producer and publicist, found the videos. He pursued Justin and flew him and his mom out to California to try him out in a studio. Shockingly, after that, Usher decided to pick him up and help Scooter produce Justin. From there, the mania began.  Jon M. Chu was the director of this MTV Best Jaw Dropping Moment Award movie. It released in theaters on February 11, 2011. The budget for Justin Bieber: Never Say Never was an estimated $13, 000, 000 and brought in $29, 514, 054 opening weekend in the US alone.
The documentary highlights his grandparents, Jonathan and Joanna Bieber, his mom Pattie Mallette for all their love and support throughout his uprising career. The entire movie, you're moving around with him as he travels on tour. His schedule was crazy. He did over 80 shows in one year! He visits home, which is his grandparent's house in Stratford, Ontario, Canada and gratefully, gets downtime with his childhood friends. The final destination of the documentary is Madison Square Garden in New York City. While all his crew members work for him, they are a part of his extended "family". `Mama' Jan Smith is his vocalist coach and is like a second mom to him. Scrappy, one of his stylists, is like an older brother on tour. By these people keeping him grounded, they have made the biggest impact on him.
The entire point of the movie is showing how he came to be who he is. We get to see his incredible journey to fame and see the road he takes to Madison Square Garden, which, in the entertainment business, is a sure sign you've made it big in music. Social networking is how he was found. Crazed fans made him big. They found him on YouTube, followed him on Twitter, `liked' him on Facebook. Throughout the movie he thanks his fans multiple times, because, without them, he really wouldn't have made it. The thing that's different about his fans then anyone else's is each girl feels a certain type of ownership towards him. A lot of girls knew about him before he was big, and they feel responsible for his success. Lovingly, clips of fans appear throughout the movie, showing how incredibly important they were in helping his career.
"There's gonna be times where people tell you that you can't live your dreams. This is what I tell them: never say never."-Justin Bieber. Philosophically, Justin told this to his fans at one of his shows. This is the saying he's been living by his entire life because it fits his situation perfectly. People told him he was crazy for trying to make it, people laughed at Scooter Braun for picking him up, which didn't sway either one of them. By paying no regard to the naysayers, and look at what happened. Deservingly, he fulfilled his dream.  Everyone who thought otherwise was proved wrong. All you need is a dream, and the drive to fulfill it and anything can happen.
I thought this movie was really well made. Justin fit in some humor along with all the information, which made it very entertaining. I love how they show how down to earth he is, and how much he truly cares for his fans. Sympathetically, he gives tickets away to random people on the streets at every show who couldn't otherwise afford them. He wants to make people happy and is doing everything he can to do so. By showing this side of him, it really raised his public appeal. I really liked seeing how he got to be where he is and how hard he actually worked to get there. I think if anyone is not a Bieber fan before this movie, would be by the end. His sparkling personality is cleverly shown all throughout. It was really informative without being boring. This was a very well made movie.