The 1989 T.V. flick 'Nick Knight' tells us about the life of a man who's trying to forget his past and start on a new life. Nick Knight, played by Rick Springfield, is a cop who is investigating the murders of innocent homeless people, each having their blood pumped from their bodies. On the verge of discovering who is responsible for the horrible deaths, Nick is called in to a museum to find a murdered security guard whose blood is pumped from his body. But Nick notices that this one is different than the other deaths, the guard's blood was sucked from his neck with two bite marks. The killer has also stolen a rare Mayan goblet that is very valuable. Nick now has to deal with two murderers, one of them a vampire.

Nick's only witness is the museum archeologist Alice Hunter, a beautiful and intelligent woman who falls in love with Nick when they meet. She loves the way he dresses, his black hair and young handsome face she can never take her eyes off of. But what she doesn't know is that Nick is not an ordinary man, Nick is over two hundred years old and is not mortal. Nick Knight is a vampire.

Nick has to find the vampire who killed the security guard and stoled the Mayan Goblet, for the goblet can help turn Nick back into a human being. Nick knows that Lacroix, the vampire that turned Nick into one, is responsible for the murder and the theft. Without the goblet, Nick cannot become a human being again and will have to live for eternity, being tormented with the thirst for blood and watching the ones that he love grow old and die in front of his eyes. Nick tracks down Lacroix and the two vampires engage in a violent and dramatic battle over the goblet.

Mixed with horror, romance, humor, and drama, Nick Knight is an amazing and perhaps the best vampire movie ever. Rick Springfield delivers his best performance in acting. Although the special effects aren't spectacular, the script and actors are what make this an awesome movie. I highly recommend this movie and hope that it will always be remembered as the greatest vampire movie ever!!!