The Getaway is a slick, fast paced action film with, great acting, and a supurb script. Their is not a weak performance in the film despite the fact that many people seem to hate Ali Mcgraw. My theory is that these people are ugly losers who resent Mcgraw because she is more attractive than they can ever hope to be. She is not a great actress but she does a good job in this movie, her character is understated, quiet, but strong, forgiving and dependable. Without her Doc (McQueen's character) would not have survived or even gotten out of jail in ther first place. McQueen does a masterful job of portraying Doc, a smooth, cool, (sometimes ice cold) soft spoken tough guy. He may seem mild, but push his buttons once to often and you better start ducking because the bullets will be humming. Doc will shoot you dead without a second thought if he has to. His wife can shoot as well as drive and she too will kill if necessary. The music in this movie is great, especially the twanging music that starts whenever a violent confrontation occures. The story begins with Doc (McQueen) in prison. The monotony of his days drive him crazy, he is made to tear up tree stumps all day long. Even though this film does not focus that much on it is clear how much prison sucks in the few short scenes in which Doc is in jail. He comes up for parole and is denied. Desperate to get out of prison he swallows his pride and sends his wife to Benion, the local political power broker/gangster/rancher/ all around rich scumbag. In order to get Doc out of jail Mcgraw (I forget her character's name) is forced to sleep with Benion. On top of that once Doc gets out Benion requires him to pull a bank heist for him. Benion already has the bank selected because he has inside information on when a lot of money will be coming in, his brother-in-law sits on the board of the bank, and Benion has already assembled a team for Doc to lead. The actor who plays Benion does a great job of being really sleazy in a political way, arrogant and condecining. Rudy and Frank are the names of the characters Benion has selected to work for Doc. Doc does not trust these people and for good reason, the guy who plays Rudy played Solotzo in the Godfather and man is he GREAT!!! in this movie. He steals the show and in my opinion out performs McQueen. Dont get me wrong, McQeen gives a great performance but the guy who plays Rudy (Silversti?) is a menacing villian who exudes subtle threats throughout the film. He is also clever and funny but ruthless and viscious. Doc and his wife soon realize that they are surrounded by enemies, who they have no choice but to cooperate with now but who will likely betray them at the first oppurtunity. No one trusts each other on this job, Benion does not trust Doc and his wife and vice versa, Rudy does not trust anyone and no one in their right minds trusts Rudy. These people are all criminals but Doc and his wife are by far the most likeable and least scummy. This bizzare group of individuals are compelled by circumstance to cooperate but after the job is over, all bets are off!!! The job goes bad and betryal followes betryal, Doc discovers his wife's "infiedility" and is enraged even though he sent her to Benion and she only did what she had to get him out of prison. Doc and his wife end up with the money but with Rudy and Benion's boys on their trail. Not to mention the cops who have thrown out a state wide search for Doc, his wife, and everyone else involved with the robbery gone wrong. It is now a race to the border with Doc and his wife playing the hare for the cops, Rudy, and Benion's thugs. Across the border lies freedom and the good life beyond the reach of the American authorities. However, Doc and his wife are starting to distrust each other, their relationship is falling apart, deterioting more and more the closer they get to actually escaping. The viewer really gets invested in Doc and his wife and roots for them to hold it together and trust each other. The viewer really wants to see them get away with the money, the villians in this film are delicioulsy sinister, watching them die is truly a pleasure and a relief. People die horribly in this movie, the violence is realistic without being overdone. Plenty of shooting and shoot outs with lots of death, car chases, narrow escapes, and constant tension. This movie is very metaphorical in the sense that viewers will really relate to Doc and his wife. Who does not want to get away from the dreary life of a wage slave? Who does not feel that the only person they can trust is themselves, even though they badly want to trust their spouse? In this movie it is man and wife against the world. Who does not feel sometimes that they are surrounded by evil people intent on their destruction, and that the only solution is to destroy these other people first? Doc and his wife's odysessy to escape America and the long arm of the law, not to mention their previous "partners" in crime represents a fantasy many people have of escaping the prison of their lives. The real problem is that they are starting not to trust each other, and if anything is going to get them killed its that. The suspense climaxes in a great shoot out in a sleazy border motel where all acounts are settleed once and for all and Doc and his wife find out wheater or not they can truly trust each other. This movie proves the old adage that the robbery is the easy part of the crime, the true test of a criminal is the Getaway.