Boondock Saints is a movie that never got much publicity and did not use much advertising.  The most remarkable thing about this movie is that it never had any advertising at all.  The only way people could hear about it was word of mouth and yet many people heard about it.  It is good to know that movies still need to have some quality and can not just be hyped up with huge budgets and expensive actors.  There were very few known actors in this movie and that is what made it so good.  These actors established themselves in the acting world as great action heroes.

 This movie starts out with the two main characters praying in a church.  The director tries to get you to sympathize with the main characters right off the bat.  It then cuts to a shot of them in a bar drinking with their friends.  A few big men come in and demand that they all leave the bar.  As a result they start a fight with these three men and end up winning because these men were severely out numbered.  It then cuts to a shot of a crime scene and the police are investigating the death of the men that started the fight.  The unique thing about this movie is that it skips parts so that you don't understand what happened, then it cuts back and goes through what happened step by step with the police.  It is the most creative way to make a movie I have seen in a long time.

 Although the movie glorifies killers it is an excellent movie, and should get more credit then it does.  It's an interesting movie and keeps you on the edge of your seat.  You never know what to expect out of these two guys, they are always getting into mischief and always seem to find a very clever way to get out of it.  The fact that they always look back to God for help makes the movie more identifiable with more people that don't really like the killing and action of your typical 90's movie.  Before this movie I was really getting sick and tired of all of the spin off's of Saving Private Ryan.  All of those war movies got real old, real fast and everyone just kept right on making them.  This movie was a change from all that, it stood out from the crowd and made an excellent movie for the times.

 I think the most interesting thing about this movie is, like I said before, the way they showed the action scene.  They would show the very beginning of it and then they would cut to after it and what the aftermath was.  During the aftermath they would cut to parts of the fight scene when what they were talking about was important.  Say they were trying to repair someone's wound, they would then cut to that part in the action sequence where that person was getting that particular injury.  This way you get to guess a little about what happened and then you get the actual cause shown to you in the end to bring everything together.

 To finish up this review I am going to rate this movie on a scale of one to ten with the rest of the action movies that I have seen.  I give Boondock Saints a nine out of ten rating and that is pretty good on my scale, considering I am not really into movies that much.  This movie is a must see for any fan of action movies.  It can also relate with a Quentin Tarantino fan because the plot is very similar to most of his movies.