Cast in the hauntingly beautiful golden glow of a setting sun is the true Beirut that Caramel has captured, a movie dedicated "to my Beirut." This aurous atmosphere that lingers over the warmth and unique beauty of the city Beirut is one of the many high points of this film, as it captures so many insightful details about life and about humanity that the eye of a true artist should never miss. While many movies staged in the Middle East, or the politically turbulent country of Lebanon center around politics or the tribulations of war and poverty this film draws away from that to show Beirut as those that live and breathe that city each day see it, free of the stereotypes and of political conflict (that is not constant) but for what it really is, a city where people carry out their lives, a warm metro that displays almost forsaken beauty, a ghostly and romantic shadow of elegance that shines through the scars the past has inflicted. This movie IS about struggle, but you'll find that it is ultimately about people.

I would venture to say it is largely the struggles of Lebanese women, and this film carried many messages to them, messages of new beginnings and inspiration to press on through troubles they all endure as a society. The setting, a parlor is an excellent setting where the female characters interact and reveal their personal struggles. This movie goes further to show that although each character is of different age groups, of different (religious) backgrounds and show ultimately different (yet in ways similar) challenges, they each remain friends, bonded and supportive, defying any expected barriers as a result of differing backgrounds. Caramel touches on each obstacle that meets with all sorts of Lebanese women this way, from choosing the love of your family over love for yourself and for others( as demonstrated by the noble Rose) to loving yourself enough to respect your destiny (as demonstrated by the main character). Many themes are explored and my personal favorite was Jamale (a character who reminded me of someone I know) who to the very end remained the most tragic figure of them all due to her unwillingness to accept her age, opposing it to the extent of living a sorrowful lie, a life she knows is a lie and whose truth plagues her with fear of exposure  and with deep resentment. She never learned to embrace change and allowed change to alter who she was. If only Jamale learned to embrace who she had become and to love herself despite the demands of a biased society, she would live in truth and the heartache of dreams that don't belong to her would not have been among her list of plagues. She shares this theme with another character, the theme of lying to either yourself or to someone dear to you. In the end, a false life only tastes sweet as long as you hold your nose to mask the bitter flavor of the reality you've created for yourself.

And so golden sunset light was suitable for a bittersweet film such as this. That the despair of a setting sun may be true but the promise of a new day are a night away. The messages are all themes of learning to better love, whether it be love for yourself, the truth, or another. And to live free with an open mind, and heart.

Highly recommended and highly deserving film.