I've seen Predator probably several hundred times by now: first in the theater, then the VHS,then 3 different DVD versions, now with two different Blu-rays.  It's one of my all time favorite movies.  I've gotten pretty used to how it looks, and what it's supposed to look like.  The Ultimate Hunter Edition Blu-ray could have been the best, but several scenes were ruined by overzealous use of digital noise reduction (DNR) and digital processing.  As it is now, I'd probably rate the two Blu-ray releases equal.
The first scene in question is when Dutch, the General, and Dillon are talking near the beginning.  Dutch's red shirt is glowing neon red, and his five-o'clock-shadow looks like its painted on.  The old General looks like he had tons of Botox injections, and when he speaks, it looks somewhat "off".  But probably the worst is Dillon- he looks like he is made of plastic.  All the detail is gone from his lips and face, and it also looks "off" when he speaks, like his lips don't quite match his speech.  The smoke from Dutchs' cigar seems to magically emanate from the top of his head, probably because the DNR process mistook the smoke for graininess against the darkness of his face.
 The other two scenes are minor in comparison to the first one:  When Mack is talking to Dutch after Blaine is killed, and they are setting up camp, he looks like he is glowing, and his skin is really plastic like.  The other is when Dutch is falling into the water- that shot had a lot of grain in the other versions.  In this version, it has been DNR'd to the extent now that it just looks fuzzy and blurry.
 So these scenes don't add up to a whole lot of time when you take into account the whole movie.  But the thing is, these scenes didn't have to be altered the way they were.  The problem with the old Blu-ray was that it was encoded with an old codec (MPEG-2) and crammed on a singe layer Blu-ray.  This created artifacts and digital noise.  All Fox needed to do was encode with a better codec, and use a larger Blu-ray, and maybe use a conservative amount of grain reduction.  Unfortunately, as it is now, most of the movie looks good, but a small part makes me groan and wonder what the heck someone was thinking when they OK'd this.