I've never seen this movie for sale before.  I just assumed that this horrid wretch of a production was quietly swept under a very thick rug many years ago and certainly would have been quickly shuffled away after the Peter Jackson films were released.

I saw this as a child of about 12 years old.  I thought it was mildly interesting but then I read the books.  BAM right in my face.  This movie took the (arguably) most wonderful fantasy story ever told and reduced it to a trite, banal story for 6 year olds raised on Saturday morning cartoons.  I can still see the orcs singing "where there's a whip, there's a way" and hear Gandalf explain to the hobbits that "each year the hobbits are getting bigger, maybe there's a little hobbit in YOU" as he broke the "3rd wall" and spoke directly to the audience.  At 12 years old I found this insulting, as an adult I don't think I could hold this DVD in my hand without feeling rage enough to snap it in half.

I also assumed that this DVD would have no more than an average of 1 1/2 stars.  Color me surprised.  The only argument for more than a 1 star rating that I've read that makes the slightest of sense is that the Peter Jackson movies are too grown up for the younger crowd and this is a good introduction to Middle Earth.  That reasoning is spurious.  First, though the Peter Jackson movie is clearly not for kids, the books are.  Have the young ones read the Hobbit (or *gasp!* read it to them yourself) and when they are about 10 or 12, have them read the books.  At about 13 or 14 they will be old enough to handle the imagery of the movies and will (even better) have read the books too.  Second, Having them watch this movie doesn't give them an introduction to Middle Earth, it gives away THE ENDING!  There are many excellent movies that children aren't ready for, do we prepare the kids by telling them how it ends?  Ridiculous.  I was mad at this movie for taking away some of my enjoyment of the books.  Don't make the mistake I made, don't get this movie.