Any director can fill a screen with pretty things and call it beautiful, just as any writer can fill a page with words and call it poetry.  Those who have not yet been deluded into believing in total relativism know, however, how difficult true beauty and true poetry are to create.  Greatness in film, like greatness in poetry, requires hard work, and that work comes to little unless it is inflamed with a divine light.

A River Runs Through it is a work of great beauty and true poetry.  It is a film that I believe is destined to become a significant part of our national heritage, and in the long run I also believe that it is the most significant work for which Robert Redford will be remembered (not to take anything away from his other excellent work.)  During his time here on earth, it would appear that he has been fortunate enough to attain something resembling wisdom, and all of it is communicated in the exquisitely simple, yet divinely inspired, way in which this film gives us these characters and this story.

Having also read Norman MacLean's books, I will mention that this film is an "adaptation" of his story of the same title.  It is, however, that rarest of adaptations in that it gives up nothing to the original, and does it full and complete justice in every way that matters.

With each viewing of this film over the years, its profound use of symbolism and metaphor becomes ever more apparent to me.  It is truly a family story in that it revolves around the universal themes of sibling rivalry, parental tribulation, the tenuous beginnings (and deep foundations) of love and the seemingly random but somehow inevitable movements of the hand of fate.  You don't need to be a fisherman or have any interest in fly fishing to be deeply moved by this film; you simply need to be a human being.

In closing, I would like to beg Mr. Redford for a digitally remastered and restored director's cut in widescreen on DVD with an interview with him as a special feature.  This film deserves the royal treatment, and it's about time it got it, don't you think?