"Bill and Ted" is a movie startling in its originality and truly well written. It is the exposition of this theme:  What if you could go back and redo something that originally you screwed up.  Better yet, what if you had help.  The climax of the movie, strangely enough, occurs in the Sheriff's station just before the boys put on an history report that actually saves history.  (Just another one of the great subtleties that pervade this film.)  Ted realizes that he needs keys--so he thinks to himself, "I'm travelling through time, I'll just go get the keys and put them right here."  Sure enough, the keys are right there.  Simultaneously he realizes that his impatient father was right--Ted did steal the keys.  But here is the germ of an endless philosophy--I need something, I'll just apply myself in the future and I'll get the benefits.

Often times the best works masquerade as purely popular entertainment; indeed, the exigencies of today's creative world sometimes drive true creativity to seemingly lesser venues.  Whatever the reason, we need only be willing to enjoy the result.  I saw this movie as a teenager the summer it came out but it has stuck with me.  Now, at midlife, it presents a fantasy even more compelling than that of a slacker high school student wishing for an easy A on an history examination--it presents the idea of what could happen if you were able to go back and do it again.  The idea of leaving the keys just where you need them is rather more profound than it appears at first blush.

OK, here's my other favorite scene--cut to the theater where the students are presenting their oral history reports, a jock in full regalia (letter jacket) is stammering his way through a pitiful performance when his face brightens and he shouts "San Dimas High School Football Rules!" and, in turn, receives the predictably positive ovation from the crowd.  Obviously, the writer of the screenplay endured the same high school experience that I did.

The movie works at all levels--it is mercifully free from the bad language and suggestive tone of more recent high-school offerings.  For all the free benefits that rain down upon Bill and Ted, for the foreknowledge that they will be famous world-altering musicians, they still have to learn to play, that says much about the movie as well as life.