Saddle up, Costner fans -- "Wyatt Earp" has finally made it to DVD.
This epic Western biography bombed in theaters, and on video it's obvious why. The movie is long, long, long. It's best to watch this gigantic movie over a two-day period, stopping at the halfway point and picking up where you left off. "Wyatt Earp's" length is its biggest flaw.
I hated the movie the first time I saw it, on a pan-and-scan videotape, but DVD has restored the film's visual glory. Physically, this is a beautiful movie. Some of the shots are so lavishly stunning that we are reminded of the landscapes in "Dances With Wolves." This is the ultimate usefulness of the DVD format -- giving old(er) movies back their original beauty.
Costner is better than I remembered in the title role. He does a pretty good job of playing Wyatt from his early 20s to his 60s. He's especially good in the Dodge City sequences, dressed in black, teaching the Mastersons a thing or two about law enforcement. Is he as good as Henry Fonda in "My Darling Clementine?" Not quite, but this is not a bad performance by any stretch of the imagination.
The other actors are pretty good, too. Dennis Quaid is strong as Doc Holliday, though Doc really doesn't have that much to do and he has little onscreen chemistry with Costner (I didn't quite buy that these two men were great friends, mostly because Costner's Wyatt is so stand-offish.) Tom Sizemore, Michael Madsen and Bill Pullman also lend strong support. This being very much a guy movie, the female characters don't come off as well and are given scant notice, though Catherine O'Hara earns some praise as Allie Earp.
The movie's extreme length, though, almost kills it. "Wyatt Earp" could have used tighter editing and a stronger, more focused story. It does have some good action scenes, and the gunfight at the OK Corral is well handled. Unfortunately, the movie seems to be building toward nothing. I'm surprised it didn't carry us all the way to Wyatt's deathbed scene.
Still, I respect the movie; it's an impressive Western, and I'm glad to have it on DVD at last. And it's far from being the worst of Kevin Costner's movies.