Do you believe in fairies?  No? Well perhaps watching the latest movie in Disney's Tinker Bell series will change your mind.  I have never doubted their existence for a moment and neither has my granddaughter who I was lucky enough to have watch the movie with me.

It's summer and lonely little Lizzy is left to fend for herself while her workaholic father pays her little attention.  Lizzy loves fairies (and truly believes) and spends time building a fairy house to entice the little woodland creatures to reveal themselves to her.  This being a true "Fairytale".

I can't for the life of me figure out why some of these charming movies go straight to DVD instead of being show in the movies.  No matter, the theater's loss is the home viewer's gain.

The movie is enhanced by the fabulous, award-winning Martin Sheen (The Queen, Frost/Nixon, Breaking Dawn) lending his distinctive voice to the role of Lizzy's dad, Dr. Griffiths, while that of Tinker Bell is done by the talented Mae Whitman (Parenthood). The ever-so-wonderful Kristin Chenoweth and the popular Lucy Liu, along with Raven Simone, and Jesse McCartney also lend their voices to this entertaining movie.

Although there is a lot to entertain children, there's also plenty of lessons for adults here as well. In addition this movie comes in a 2-Disc Combo Pack with both the Blu-ray and the DVD versions. Very useful in this day and age where parents may have a Blu-ray  in the house yet a regular DVD player in the car. It is also nice to know that we have this on Blu-ray when we upgrade to a new TV.

There are plenty of interesting previews of upcoming Disney features including Tangled (the story of Rapunzel).  Bonus features include: Deleted Scenes, a music video, Design a Fairy House, and a Fairy Field Guide Builder, leading to more hours of fun for the favorite little girl in your life. All were most entertaining and informative to my granddaughter and myself. My favorite parts were - well why should I tell you? Let me have my granddaughter tell you herself, "the part when they were showing Tinker Bell the fairy camp and then I liked the part when Lizzy was making the fairy house. Oh and I liked it when they were making the little boat when they were rescuing Tinker Bell and I also liked when they were flying".  She also says, "I really liked it a lot and can't wait to watch it again". (Grandma's Note: It was bedtime so she will have to wait until next weekend}.  I can see this DVD getting a lot of play time at our house. This movie is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED for children of all ages, as well as those who are young at heart. It was a great bonding experience for my granddaughter and myself.