Ridley Scott's version of Robin Hood isn't the version you're used to. This tells the mythical story of Robin Hood before he became an outlaw and lived in Sherwood Forest. Of course the story of Robin Hood is one of a lot of mythology and possibly a little bit of fact. No one knows the real story. Chances are that film/book depictions of "Robin Hood" are completely wrong, so it's difficult to say if this movie is realistic in any way, shape, or form - minus the historical accuracies dealing with the king of England.

This version of Robin Hood is probably the best I've seen. It's very entertaining, and not a "big, dumb action movie." It's not on the level of Ridley's Gladiator, but I think it's a big leap ahead of Kingdom of Heaven (the theatrical release, at least).

The problem with Robin Hood is the ending. *Warning: spoilers ahead if you don't know the story of Robin Hood* I have not seen the director's cut yet but I would hope that between the final 2 scenes in the film there's something stuck in between them as a bridge. You go from a pretty mediocre beach battle to the king declaring Robin Hood as an outlaw. It feels like they had to cut something, or they just got tired with the film and wanted it to end and they rushed through the final scenes. At any rate, the film almost completely falls apart at the end, though the shots of Robin Hood going into Sherwood Forest make up for a bit.

Ultimately, this is one of the most watchable films of the last couple of years. It's not perfect by any stretch, but it's entertaining and one that I could watch over and over again. It has that kind of vibe to it. Other films I put in that category (in recent release) are the Hurt Locker, Shutter Island, The Wrestler. Just films that I can watch and be entertained by no matter how many times I've seen them. That's good company, and though critics panned Robin Hood, you should give it a shot. As I said, from a technical standpoint I can see it's flaws, but this is a very entertaining movie, and sometimes that's good enough for me.