I agree w/ most of the other reviews except I feel the need to point out that I don't believe that Kynaston is necessarily a "gay character".  I'm not sure he is gay at all.  That's why his attraction to Maria is plausible. Maybe he is gay, maybe he's not.  I don't think that it really matters.  The fact is that Kynaston said it himself that he was taken off the streets, fed and educated and train to act by his "tutor...who liked all the pretty, pretty boys".  I think Kynaston's sexuality has been twisted and pulled and remolded over and over like silly putty.  Nothing is cut and dry in this film regarding sexual roles.  In some ways it almost gives us a "missing link" gender that is no longer a part of our culture.  In the film Kynaston has focused his entire self on being an actor who plays women's roles. This is not just what he does but rather "who" he is. After recuperating from a severe beating he is rejected by his lover, George Villiers, who claims that his attraction was not to Kynaston the man but rather the female roles he played, Villiers would imagine himself "inside" Desdemona or poor, poor Ophelia when he had sex w/ Kynaston. He tells Kynaston that he does not who he (Kynaston) is and does not think that Kynaston know either.

 By Kynaston losing his place upon the stage he lost more than just his livelihood and social standing (that in and of itself could crush an a average person) but rather himself entirely.  In the aforementioned sexual role-playing scene he inadvertently ruins the moment by inquiring "how does your Desdemona die at the end?" to Maria.  Maria jumps up and quite eloquently states "your tutor has done you a great disservice Mr. Kynaston, he taught you how to speak like a women and move like a women but he did not teach you to feel like a woman and love like a woman...he has taken a you and trapped you in a women's form and left you to die".  Quite simply with out the acting he is just a confused boy that has never grow to be a proper man "...for he was kept in a basement w/14 other boys, and not allowed to wear a dress for 3 years nor a woman's wig for 4 yrs, not until he could prove that he had removed every possible remnant of maleness from his very being".  Crudup's Kynaston tore me to shreds and the comedic moments through out the film did nothing to detract from Kynaston's deconstruction after his emotional bubble is popped and he is forced discover some remnant of what he once was and what he could have been had it not been for the unusual circumstances of his childhood.