Sidney Lumet makes a film from a script that essentially remains a radio play. Any criticism of this film will say that you can essentially hear it without watching it and you'll still get most of the information you need to understand the story. The film at times film like a real-time recording of a process and in a reality-TV society this feeling will be more immediate for today's viewers.

That may be true. But the strength of this film is that its filmic touches are so subtle as to be almost invisible and yet entirely successful. The occasional twitch of a nervous eye, the single drop of sweat on a calm forehead, the perceived pressure of walls closing in on the 12 anonymous characters.

CONTAINS SPOILERS:

In terms of story the whole concept is quite straightforward. 12 jurors are called in to decide on an 'open and shut' case of a young adult of unidentified ethnic origin. 11 of them start off convinced he's guilty and are confronted by the doubts of the only one of them who is not so certain the case is open and shut.

In the process of the discussion imposed by the single doubter they confront the natural concept of justice, the consitutional concept of burden of proof and social realities such as group prejudice, poverty and racial profiling.

The film remains oddly impartial and we are not quite sure who is 'wrong' or 'right' as such. It may very well be that the final verdict of not guilty liberated a patricidal murdered. The only encouragement we are given by the juror who leads the doubters is that "it's possible" the boy is really guilty. But it's also possible he isn't and the prospect of putting an innocent man to death is even more horrifying.

Perhaps a contemporary American audience should think about the viability of the death penalty while watching this film. It is possible for any verdict to be wrong even in a case that may look like an open and shut case: after all "it's possible the defence lawyer is stupid", "it's possible the eye witnesses are wrong" and it's possible that the jurors selected to judge their peer may be governed by prejudices they are not themselves aware of.