When I heard they were making a sequel to 'Cabin Fever', I immediately brushed it off.  First off, Eli Roth would not be returning as the director...although, not necessarily a bad thing.  But the fact that new director Ti West had completely disowned the film and it was going to be released straight to DVD, I knew this had to be a total suckfest.  But boy was I wrong.

The film starts up basically where the first one left off.  Paul (played by Rider Strong) makes his way through the woods, leaving behind a trail of loose flesh with every tree branch that he brushes up against.  If you haven't seen the first film, it's basically about a group of teenagers who comes in contact with a deadly flesh eating virus.  In this film we find out that the culprit is a local bottling plant in town called "Down Home Water"...and unfortunately they just so happen to supply bottled water to the local high school.

Rider Strong's character quickly meets his demise via the front end of a speeding school bus and this leads us into the next chapter of the 'Cabin Fever' saga...A new group of kids, same deadly virus.  A majority of this film takes place around a high school prom where the teens not only try to survive the deadly outbreak, but they also have to contend with a contamination squad who shows up looking to use deadly force as a way to contain the virus.

Overall I enjoyed this film much more than I did the original and it surprises me, having now watched it, that Ti West had such an issue with the end result.  The thing that I liked the most about the movie was the overall tone.  Even though the movie is filled with gallons, upon gallons of the "red stuff", which is sure to gross out most movie goers, the dialog and acting is presented in a rather campy way which makes it so much fun to watch.  You can tell that the actors really had a blast with the roles they are given because it certainly comes across that way on screen.  There's also some really great cameo appearances with comedian Judah Friedlander and also Mark Borchardt of 'American Movie' fame who shows up playing Giuseppe Andrews' heavy metal listenin' cousin Herman.

The makeup effects by Quantum Creation's are surely the main selling point of this feature.  Like I said before, there's tons of gore in this film...Before the movie is over we see blood splattered throughout the entire school practically.  Some of the more memorable bits for me include Paul getting hit by the school bus in the beginning of the film and also a local townie who succumbs to the virus while eating pancakes at a local diner.  There's so much stuff going on though that it's hard to pick out a favorite really.  Gorehounds certainly won't be disappointed.

'Cabin Fever 2: Spring Fever' was released by Lions Gate Home Entertainment on February 16th, 2010 and fans of the original will definitely want to give this one a watch.  Even though most of the reviews I see regarding the film have been negative, I can't help but to call B.S. on all of them.  Other than the less than stellar ending, I found this movie to be highly enjoyable and definitely worth checking out.

3.5 out of 5 stars

Recommended