I give this one four stars though not for this making of the movie, but instead, the lessons taught by such a poor production of a potentially good story and for the value it could have if remade properly. I reccomend this movie for any fans of sci-fi/horror because it is an excellent example of a poorly made movie that could be redone as something great. Watch it, but notice what could have been done different.

This movie always makes me think back to a low budget sci-fi film I saw called Apex. Part of that ones base story was great, the rest of the base story was lame as hell. The part of Apex that was good would be echoed later in a much better film - 12 Monkeys. But don't mistake that for being based on the same story. The original writing of Apex was likely as a screenplay whereas 12 Monkeys was based on a novel.

Screamers suffers from too tight a budget and/or ignorance in its assembly. The basic premise is really good, its execution is awful. With work, this one could be made into something truly suspenseful, eerie, and bone chilling.

The basic idea is that corporations rule (which is a truly believable possibility for the future considering corporations already do indirectly in most of the world). Two competing corporations on one world wage war on each other, it turns to nuclear war, then drops back to more primitive methods. One of the warring groups builds a computerized robotic machine under ground to build robots that attack anything alive. As these robots are described in the movie as being of an ancient concept - "The autonomous mobile sword". And as they also said in the movie, they basically turned the machine on and ran. These attack robots are not really intricate in processing ability, they just home in on life and attack. They burrow through the sand that is the dominate terrain and attack using built in blades. The movie title is derived from the fact that the robots emit a sort of screaming noise when they attack. And knowing what the attack robots home in on (a living pulse), the developing company's workers develop a bracelet that disrupts the wearer's pulse.

Okay, everything is fine and dandy until the robot making the attack robots becomes more advanced on its own and starts making new, more complex versions. There are other things going on but they are unimportant for what I am saying. Before too long, everyone has problems.

Now, I'm going to try and point out a couple things without saying too much. There is one type developed that is designed to catch people with their guards down. But this is executed disasterously in the movie, because they all look alike. Once someone sees one, they can warn everyone to watch for the one that looks like yadda yadda yadda. If the robot that made it is advanced enough to make something as devious as this type is supposed to be, it should also be advanced enough to make each one look different. That is likely the single worst thing they did in this one and the rest of the film declined from that point on, even got downright lame. The idea of the last type beyond the one I just referred to was a good idea too, but the rumors of it should likely have been trimmed back to leave its nature more obscure. Lastly, this movie would likely be better with a Romeroish ending - no one wins, no one lives.

I reccomend this one but more as a study of something potentially great made very poorly. It's been a while since I last watched it but I believe I covered its main problems.