This gag worthy and highly artificial concoction throws in every late twentieth century clich&eacute; on cross generational bonding: a tremulous geriatric couple who appear to have been loaned by the "Carol Burnett Show", (remember when Carol and Harvey Korman did the elderly couple--and he grabbed her by the leg?)which is to say, they are as bristly and acerbic as a hairbrush in their testy public exchanges, but in their tender moments, they just brim with tearful, "genuine" reminiscent emotions.

In other words, it traffics in the type of Jimmy Carter era "authenticity" that consists in and of overalls, flapjacks, and maple syrup. One keeps expecting Will Geer to appear.

And who better to interpret this type of thing, than the dessicated "Hank" Fonda and Kate Hepburn, both of whom had long since discarded their by now forgotten, (but oh how much more appealing!) suaver selves in the more moth eaten environs of the RKO prop department.

Visually the film is suffused with Vermont travelogue optics--stereotypical slanting sunbeams on the lake ad nauseam, and it must be added, to the point that the whole thing looks like a very extended margarine commercial.

The script follows suit--for amidst the unbearable schmatlz, it takes pains to contain all the Norman Learish style "hep" touches--scatological humor, profanities, etc. (after all, lest we forget, Jane Fonda is in this too) meant to assure the audience that, we are dealing with "real" people, that this is in fact the late 20th century, and Ozzie and Harriet don't live here any more. Thus we are treated to such endearing witticisms as "let's suck face!". And yes it really is that embarrasing.

In short, it has all the sham sincerity of a Hallmark greeting card for an Octagenerian. You know the type--with the oaken bucket and the black eyed Susan peeping out?

Diabetics are herewith advised to avoid.

Those seeking a better take on these basic themes are herewith directed to: "I Never Sang for My Father" or "The Whales of August."