The first movie was great, ingenious and an innovation in animated film. Shrek 2 in one word is a "Masterpiece". Rarely do you see a Sequel being better than the first one, Shrek 2 is the exception. What make this movie better than the first one is that they added more characters which were put into play well in the movie. The actors who did the voices in Shrek 2 did it well with their characters themselves, they brought to life each character with their voice tone. An example of that is Puss-in-Boots (Antonio Banderas), was a great addition to the movie he gave the movie a little extra spice in the humor department. And thank to the technology available they make his face so cute and adorable that everyone just falls in love with Puss-in-boots. Also the addition of the Fairy God Mother gave this movie a different atmosphere. In most animated film the Fairy God Mother is a person with a noble heart and love for everyone. However, not this Fairy God mother she was selfish and evil. And her son Prince Charming was no different. At first I felt sorry for poor prince Charming traveling through snowstorms, desserts and find that his future princess was already marry and that she was in her honeymoon. But as the movie progress we saw that he was like his mom, self-centered. 
Are we there yet? Are we there yet? Are we there Yet?
Donkey the next American Idol after seeing his debut as a Spanglish singer I think he has a great chance. Donkey was the heart of the first movie and in the second movie although I think he has a lot of competition with Puss-in-boots at the end he is one of the character the makes Shrek enjoyable every time you watch it. In this second movie we see Donkey (Eddie Murphy) turned into a stallion after drinking from the magic portion. I think we have to give a lot of credit to donkey because his role as a stallion for like 30 minutes was to perfection.  
In addition, one of the things that I love about this movie is that is so realistic that you can connect it with real life. Shrek and Fiona got marry in the first movie most fairy tales movie will end it there. DreamWorks gave this movie a real life scenario. Most marriage after the honeymoon start having problem because misunderstanding, parent interfering or they just find themselves not made for each other. In Shrek 2 we saw that just after the honeymoon, Shrek and Fiona started to have these typical problems that happen after marriage. 
Also just like the first one this movie have a message in it.
The first movie's message was not to judge people by their cover.
Shrek 2 message is that sometime you have to make changes in your life in order to live happily ever after. 
The technology used in this movie was fantastic it make it look even more realistic than the first one.  Viewer will enjoy even more because of all the details in the movies. 
I highly recommend that everyone goes watch this movie no matter what age you are, you will laugh, cry, and fall in love with Puss-in-boots and The Gingerbread man.