I realize that watching a movie about a play and not actually experiencing that play from the beginning does not qualify me as actually grading the play.....however.....the play "Cradle Will Rock" sounded hokey  and average. The songs didn't move me, and when the entire audience erupts  at the end in joyous exaltation, I sat unmoved by what I had seen. I mean,  does anyone know why this musical has never been revived? It can't be some  sort of anti-union conspiracy. The musical just isn't that good. At least  not to me. 
That being said, the actual event that led to the performance  of the play was very powerful. The epic scale of the film dealing with not  only the federal theater, but also with the emergence of painters and the  multi-millionaires who funded their works until they became too political  was very interesting and balanced.
The performances in this ensemble were  also very well done, especially the combination of Joan Cusack and Bill  Murray as anti-communist activists. Murray has a wonderful moment during  his last performance as a ventriloquist that is heartbreaking. At the other  end of the spectrum was Vanessa Redgrave, in a rare bad performance,  playing a countess who gets swept up in artistic causes. I know she is  supposed to be a little ditzy, but I wanted to slap her face a couple of  times during the film. 
Being a Tim Robbins' film, it is very passionate.  From a technical standpoint, it is the best-made film he has made, but it  is nowhere near as powerful as "Dead Man Walking," which took a  very controversial subject and viewed it from both sides fairly and  accurately. "Cradle Will Rock" basically says:  Artists=good  Government=evil. Okay, maybe not that extreme, but still it is quite  cartoonish when portraying its good guys and bad guys without creating any  depth behind them. Here, Wiiliam Randolph Hearst is just a wealthy man who  can get away with anything, and his heart is black and cold...."RKO  281," about Hearsts' fight with Orson Welles' making of "Citizen  Kane" paints a much more tragic portrait, and ultimately a more  convincing film.
Still, the film works showing us the joy of creating  art. Although it is not as good as "Shakespeare In Love" or  "Topsy-Turvy" which dealt with the same subject matter, it still  succeeds in showing that performing can sometimes be magical.
I have  probably been more negative than I should have been. I probably held this  up to a higher standard, but Robbins' work deserves that. This is an  entertaining and sometimes powerful film, but it is not a masterpiece. One  day Robbins will create that masterpiece. Great last shot, however.