This is the first and only movie review I'll ever do.  I do not watch movies.  In fact, I hate movies with a passion.  This is the only movie I've ever watched in my entire life that I actually loved.  I tried to watch movies and appreciate them, but I never could enjoy them.  I don't even try anymore to watch movies.  I've accepted the fact that I am not a movie watcher, but a book reader instead.  However, of all the movies I've tried to watch, this is the only movie I love.  I will not review any of the other movies I've watched (or tried to watch - I don't comprehend movies) because it wouldn't be fair to give those movies 1-star reviews just because I couldn't get into them.

This is a fun and cozy movie.  Because I love it so much, I've watched it several times.  I've also read the book, and I also have a review for that, also.  This is a movie I can actually enjoy, cuddled up on the couch on a Friday night.  (Most Friday nights I am reading a book.)

Chris Parker, a beautiful teenager girl, accepts a babysitting job after being stood up by her boyfriend.  She thinks it will be a quiet night at home with the kids. . .

Her friend Brenda calls her to come and pick her up at the bus station after Brenda had tried to run away from home.  Just a quick trip to the bus station to get Brenda, and then back home with the kids. . .  Of course, the kids have to come, because they can't stay home alone.  Therefore, Chris and the kids come to the bus station. . .  or try to come to the bus station. . .

A tire blows on the freeway. . .  What a horrible time for a tire to blow when you have a carload full of kids. . .  How will Chris get another tire?

While trying to get another tire, she and the kids have one adventure after another.  I will not tell you what they are, but they are fun.  You never knew getting a tire was that adventurous. . .  I can't say more, because I don't want to ruin the movie.

But the main question is:  Will Chris get the tire, get Brenda picked up, and get home before the parents know that she was out on the town with the kids?

I enjoyed the French restaurant scene; Joe was an awesome character; I enjoyed the campus scene; the bus-riding scene was fun.  The hospital scene was really fun.  Gosh, the whole thing was fun, awesome, and cozy.  That's coming from someone who hates movies - from someone whose brain doesn't even comprehend movies!  (But I did enjoy the book even more.)

This movie is really awesome, and if you are like me and can't/don't watch movies, I think this movie is one you would enjoy; but thank goodness there is a book out and that would be even better for people like me.

Highly recommended (at least for people like me).  I get to have a "cozy, adventurous night on the town" without leaving my couch.