WarGames is a classic film of the early 80's, being both a cold war thriller and a cautionary tale about technology. Yet in all that, it's still a fun film to watch - hooking in both adults and kids, and having one of the best climactic scenes in cinema with hundreds of virtual World War III's being played out on the computer screens at NORAD. It's still mesmerizing to this day. The script, directing and acting are all excellent, with wonderful onscreen chemistry between Ally Sheedy and Matthew Broderick.

The 25th Anniversary Edition has a far superior transfer than the previous DVD, being from a much cleaner print of the film, and presented in true widescreen (not merely letterboxed). There are also a few new bonuses added to the release, the best of which is a new documentary with interviews of the cast and creators delving into how the film evolved from its original concepts, survived a directorial change, and came out as the film we know today. There are a few other new features as well, including an interesting look into NORAD and a brief documentary on the history of hacking. The commentary track is the same as the previous edition of the DVD, but that one was already excellent, so there was no need to replace it (although their introduction is cut-off for some reason, so you can't readily figure out who is who).

It's nice to see WarGames finally given a quality DVD release, although there's still room for improvement. It would have been great to have an additional commentary track with some of the actors, a gallery of deleted footage from the first director (if it still exists), and there has yet to be a proper CD release of Arthur B. Rubinstein's excellent soundtrack (something that could easily be done using a Dual-Disc, or even as an alternate audio track). Also - why can't DVD producers add a subtitle track for commentaries so you know who is talking? Even just the name of the person talking at any given time would help. Maybe some of these will be addressed if there's ever a Blu-Ray version. Still, the 25th Anniversary Edition of WarGames is absolutely well-worth having.