Masada proves to be one of the more entertaining mini-series to come out for network TV. Its a historical drama about the Roman siege of Masada and the series centered around two men who led the forces against each other. Peter O'Toole does a fanastic job as the leader of the Roman 10th Legion and Governor of Judica while his counterpart, Peter Strauss played well against him as the leader of the Jewish Zeolots hold up on the mountain top fortress. They were well served by their supporting actors. I especially enjoyed the job Anthony Quayle did as the siege engineer, it was nice to see him in action once again. The production values of this series was very good for a TV although I am amazed why Hollywoodland would put Roman soldiers in brown leather armor. At least color the armor silver to simulate their armor plated uniform!!

As ironic as this may sound, Masada is a story that supposes to show the courage and determination of the Jews fighting to remains free from Rome but instead, anyone who watches this series realized that it was the Romans who show greater determination, greater courage and greater resolved to conquer. Most of the series had the Jews trapped up on Masada fighting among themselves like a soap opera show while the Romans who did all the hard work of conducting the siege, stoic determination and willingness to endured. By the time the series end, we understand why most of the western civilization fell under Roman control, they deserves to rule because they are willing to adjust, adapt and overcome almost anything. Jews who thought to kill themselves to rob the Romans their victory really didn't robbed anyone but themselves a chance to die in glory. As any professional soldier can tell you, any battle that wasn't a battle is a good battle.

The DVD of Masada was long time coming but unfortunately, this is not really a very pristine copy. I doubt if they ever clean up the original print since the DVD looks pretty ordinary with dirts, spots and scratches. Still, its no worst then the VHS and I thought it was clearer and more crisp then the tape version. Its not the industy high standard but it not that bad. It come in two disc, cramming 383 minutes into that must had something to do with the average quality of the images. There isn't any extra features attach to this DVD.

Overall, this is a must buy DVD for anyone who enjoyed the series. Although the overall quality is average, it's still better then the VHS and it will last longer. Maybe someday, they might come out with a better verison although I'll think panda will fly before we see that day.