A lot of folks have commented on this movie, so why should there be one more? Last night a friend and his wife joined me for dinner. Afterwards, I showed him the section where the Confederates form up for Pickett's Charge. He is a Korean War vet who wept unabashedly as the Charge went in. This is my all time favorite movie to the extent that I wore out the VHS tape with repeated viewings. It is a painstakingly yet loving and respectful rendering of the pivotal battle of the Civil War. It is well cast and well acted. Martin Sheen is not a favorite of mine, but he captures Robert E. Lee as well as anyone could. The film shows in moving detail how deeply the troops cared for Lee, as they did in reality. Tom Beringer, who is a favorite, is excellent as General Longstreet. The facial hair on most characters is obviously fake, but not to the point of being distracting. At four hours, it's a long, long film, but it simply never drags; it is in the details that the story line and the reality of the setting are maintained There are no computer enhanced graphics; the cast includes several thousand Civil War reinactors, which produces combat scenes of gut-wrenching realism. Some of them are interviewed in an "extra feature", and their reverence for the battle site is moving. "Gettysburg" permits the viewer to understand, through the onscreen exchanges between characters, what the Civil War was all about. But most of all, it demonstrates the unflagging courage which American soldiers have displayed since the birth of our Country, and it is probably that aspect of the film that I find most moving. The DVD needs a big screen to do justice to the panoramic scope of the battle scenes, but the disc is a marked improvement over the tape. If I have one reservation, it has to do with the sound. Dolby 5.0 is good, but to have the subwoofer kick in during the artillery firing sequences would have been better. If you want to find out a little bit about what this Country is all about, see this film