There was an episode of "The Odd Couple" TV series where Felix was supposed to be in a cooking contest, but he came down with an attack of bursitis so he couldn't move his arms.  Oscar agreed to be Felix' arms for the contest, i.e. Felix would give instructions (mix this, blend this, pour that) and Oscar would do the actual cooking.  Felix intended to make a classic beef roast.  When the roast came out of the oven, Oscar, klutz that he was, accidentally rammed an electric carving knife into the thing.  Before he succeeded in pulling it out, he had mutilated Felix' roast.  Thinking fast, Felix instructed Oscar to cut up the roast into dozens of pieces.  Then they whipped up a quick gravy and presented a beef stew instead of a beef roast - and won the contest!
Watching "Superman II:  The Richard Donner Cut", it's pretty obvious that something similar happened to this movie 25 years ago:  Richard Donner clearly set out to make a masterpiece, only to have the Salkinds mutilate his movie.  Richard Lester was then hired to carve up Donner's film into dozens of little pieces and re-package and re-format it, essentially turning a beef roast into a beef stew.  And to think, when this movie first came out in theaters 25 years ago none of us were any the wiser.

I have both films, the Lester version and the Donner version, on DVD.  I've watched them both back-to-back.  I don't think there's any doubt:  the Donner version of this film is clearly the superior version of this film.  I'll give Lester some credit;  his version of the film is clearly the better edited of the two.  Donner's version of the film has a rough-around-the-edges, cut-and-paste feel to it:  some scenes go on a beat too long, some scenes look more like a rehearsal for the scene than the actual scene itself.  Donner's cut doesn't quite have that final, polished look to it that Lester's cut does.  But I'm willing to cut Donner some slack here - he is, after all revisiting material that he left behind a quarter-century ago.  Donner's film is the better of the two for three main reasons:

1)  Lois Lane gets an I.Q. upgrade - in Donner's version, Lois realizes right off the bat that Clark Kent is really Superman and she is proactive about it:  she's trying all through the movie to get Clark to admit he's really Superman.  It makes Lois seem that much more intelligent and therefore that much more credible.

2)  The Three Kryptonian Criminals are much better realized - in Lester's version their malevolence is only hinted at.  In Donner's version we get a real sense of who they are and the danger they represent.  Check for the look of sadistic glee on Terrence Stamp's face as he rips a machine gun from the hands of a White House guard and starts indiscriminately shooting people.  In Donner's cut, General Zod comes across as a psychopath and a megalomaniac but as a brilliant and accomplished man with a deeply wounded sense of pride.  It's a great performance and it all got lost in the Lester version.

3)  Marlon Brando - Once you see his scenes you'll realize how utterly indispensable he really is to these films.  Indeed, in the light of the 2000 DVD reissue of "Superman:  The Movie" in which Brando's scenes as Jor-el were restored, it's not too much to say that the Brando/Reeve scenes are really the heart of the movie.  In "Superman II", Kal-el, after forsaking his superpowers for an earthly love, goes back to the Fortress of Solitude to beg for those powers back.  In Lester's version Kal-el screams out "Father!" and no one answers.  He's about to leave when he sees the mysterious green glowing crystal that built the Fortress in the first place.  He holds it up.  Music up with a swell.  And ... cut to Metropolis.  Superman soon shows up, cape, boots and all, to fight Zod, Non and Ursa.  How?!  In Lester's version there's just this great, big gaping hole in the plot.  In Donner's version that hole is filled in and mightily with a truly magnificent scene between Brando and Reeve, Jor-el and Kal-el.  I don't want to spoil it for you, but that scene - missing in Lester's version - doesn't just fix a continuity error.  It turns out to be the climax of the whole movie!  What a tragedy that we never got to see this scene in the film's initial theatrical release.  It makes sense of all of Brando's mumblings in the beginning of the first movie.  Indeed when you see Brando's scenes, you'll really get a sense of continuity between the two films, how "Superman I" and "Superman II" are really two-halves of the same film.  If only for that reason, the Donner cut, whatever other flaws it might have, deserves to stand as the true, the definitive "Superman II".

All things considered, this is still only a good movie, not a great one.  It never reaches up to the grandeur and epic scope of "Superman I".  But that's really the fault of the screenwriters, Robert Newman and Leslie Newman and "creative consultant" (i.e. script doctor) Tom Mankiewicz.  There are too many irrelevant discursions and digressions in the plot (a sequence on the moon, a sequence in Niagara Falls, etc.) and an utterly illogical and bizarre ending.  And when the three Kryptonian Criminals land on earth, instead of having them trash some anonymous middle-American town (identified in the film as "East Houston, Idaho") wouldn't it be more poignant if they landed in ... Smallville?  But I guess that's my cut of "Superman II".