This workout and <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000FSL8WQ">Bellydance Basics and Beyond: Technique for a Solid Foundation</a> are probably the best for total beginners, because both include a more detailed tutorial section which breaks down the moves slowly and without music. If you are an absolute beginner and you want to buy only one bellydance DVD, I think this is the one. It has the explanations you need as a total beginner, it has a nice practise flow and a bit more advanced workout (the bit more of difficulty lies in the speed and in the combination of various of the moves into a choreography, not in layering the moves, so it's doable). If you are a total beginner maybe you should stick to the practise flow for some time, since going directly to the workout may "intimidate" you. I am still at a level that I enjoy the flow better than the workout, because I do not need to concentrate so much on following the combos and I can focus on doing the moves correctly, so I feel I exercise better.

CARDIO CHALLENGE: Low TONING: Medium CHOREOGRAPHY DIFFICULTY: Beginner to Intermediate INSTRUCTIONAL QUALITY: Very Good MUSIC: Very Good FUN FACTOR: Very good

CONTENTS: Tutorial, practise flow and workout are about 40-50 minutes each, so basically like a regular class.
1) TUTORIAL - Very good explanations and break down of the steps and moves that you will need in the following sections without music
2) PRACTISE FLOW - Drilling session for beginners with nice slow music so it's like dancing your reps. All the moves are practised in the basic combinations that you will need in the workout.
3) WORKOUT - Divided in 6 sections (led alternated by Neon, Blanca and Sarah - 2 chapters each, so you get more variety in teaching styles). Each section consists of several combinations that include the moves learned in the tutorial/flow sessions but combining the simple combinations from the flow into more complex ones and alternating them to form a more choreographed workout.
4) GODDESS DANCE - Combines the moves from the 6 sections of the workout in a full choreography.
MISSING: Warm-up and cool-down. Apparently Neon considers the first section and the last one as warm-up and cool-down respectively. In the trailer of another of her workouts, she expressly mentions that the last segment is your "dancing cool-down", a series of artistic slow poses and flowing movements that release tension in your muscles. Ok, I take it, but I really like standing or floor stretches, so sometimes I use the cool-down of another DVD.

MUSIC:
Very nice contemporary music selections without lyrics, so you can concentrate on your moves (only the last dance "Goddess" has lyrics).

EMPHASIS:
Very good overall emphasis, your abs get a very thorough workout and it even has some arm embellishments and footwork.

BETTER THAN OTHER DVD'S:
- Very well balanced: it is useful for almost all skill levels, the size of each segment is ideal, it combines slow and faster segments, it alternates the leading role of the dancers, it combines soft & undulating movements with percussive ones, it targets all body parts as well as some embellishments, it combines drills and dance combinations, as well as artistry and fitness.
- The combinations in themselves are well balanced and look nice together, although they are not too complex (not many layers). You can learn how you can put different moves together in a choreography.
- The shimmy section is real fun (excellent choice of music+combinations). Maybe it is not as thorough as the one in <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00095NX9G">Serpentine - Belly Dance with Rachel Brice :: Bellydance Technique & Yoga for Strong, Relaxed & Sinuous Movement</a>, but it is also easier, so you can start here.
- The way the tutorial and the practise flow have been built together as part of the features of the DVD is also very useful to customize your learning. You can go over the whole tutorial, or you can choose each move from a menu to go over a combination of tutorial & flow (the part of the tutorial that breaks down the move is followed by the specific segment of the dance flow to drill it) or you can perform the entire practise flow on its own.
- The best explanation & drills for undulations I have seen so far (followed closely by Neon's instruction in <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00095VJUQ">Bellydance: First Steps - step-by-step belly dance instruction & 2 hours of non-stop practice for Total Beginners</a>). Although this last DVD is not as good for Total Beginners and overall content as Love Potion, which is really excellent in almost every respect. Undulations work your abs thoroughly, so this is a good abs workout.