This is a good sampler if you are just getting started on viewing Buster Keaton films.  "The General" is a classic, and "The Playhouse" and "Cops" are among his best shorts.
Film #1  is "The General", a Civil War tale involving trains, one of  Keaton's obvious real life obsessions.  "The General" was filmed  in 1926 in the town of Cottage Grove, Oregon.  He stars as the engineer of  a train who tries to join the Southern Army but is rejected as being too  important to the southern cause as an engineer to be sacrificed as an  infantryman.  Keaton helps out anyway and is chased throughout the film by  the mean Yankees.  There's a scene where the engine of one of the trains  collapses a bridge and tumbles into the river, which happens to be the most  expensive scene filmed in the entire silent film era, and it's kind of  thrilling.  Keaton took great pains in making sure that authenticity of the  Civil War era (1861-65) was shown throughout the film, but I wish he didn't  dress the Confederates in matching uniforms, like their counterparts, the  Yankees. With the limited resource material he had at the time, it is  understandable; however, the reality was that matching uniforms in the  Confederacy was rare, for reasons too long and detailed to go into  here.
Film #2 is "The Playhouse" (1921).  Although this isn't  as fun as the Keaton shorts that involve his being chased around Los  Angeles, I found it unique and interesting.  In one scene, Keaton falls  asleep and dreams that he is every person inside a live theater, from the  spectators (women, too), the actors - including a monkey!, the guys in the  orchestra pit, and backstage help.  It was hilarious to see him take every  part in a minstrel show, a softshoe act (my favorite), and he had the  monkey act down perfectly.  Just from seeing how Keaton imitates the  precise details of the various acts shows us that he absorbed A LOT from  watching the other performers when he toured in vaudeville his first 20  years of life.
Film #3 is "Cops".  This is one of Keaton's  all-time classics.  Keaton is swindled out of a wad of money by a con man  who sells him some poor family's junky-looking furniture, who think Keaton  was hired to be their mover.  When a bomb is thrown at a policemen's parade  and ends up on Keaton's wagon full of furniture, Keaton uses it to light  his cigarette and then tosses it out, landing in the parade and exploding.  This, of course, causes a million cops to chase Keaton through the streets.  We get to see a lot of 1922 Los Angeles in this film, and sometimes you  may find yourself getting too distracted at looking at the interesting  streets instead of him.  If you're interested in seeing more 1920's L.A. in  Keaton's films, try "Sherlock Jr." and "The Goat".