I have a few concerns, not about the wonderful movie "Peter Pan", but of the comments that it has recived.

First off,  there have been quite a few reviews on how poorly Jeremy Sumpter's (Peter Pan) acting went. No, he is not British, but I think he did a magnificent job anyways. It didn't come across my mind once until it was brought up here that he didn't perform well because he was an American boy playing the part of a British boy. I think he did an excellent job and they probably wouldn't be able to find a better Peter Pan for the movie. Also, someone said a while back, that another reason he didn't shine was because of his slightly noticable lisp. Can he help that he was born with a very small lisp?? No, he cant, so I wouldn't hold that against him. That is what makes him so cute to watch.

The second thing I noticed is lots of people complaining on how badly Tinkerbell was potraied. I think she did an amazing job. How else would we be able to get the message about exactly how she was feeling? Yes, she may have overacted some parts, but they were only minor.

Third was how "Peter Pan" was getting bad reviews because of the previews? Just because you may not like the movies being previewed, doesn't make "Peter Pan" a horrible movie.

Forth, there have been lots of people dislikeing the "romantic" parts in this movie. One person said how Peter and Wendy (Rachel Hurd-Wood) both looked at Peter's "mid-chest", then looked at eachother and smiled. Umm, did you not notice what excatly they were doing? They were getting ready to dance. Peter hadn't really danced before, so when Wendy put her hand on his shoulder, he put his hand on her waist. They both looked at his hand, not his "mid-chest" as this person calls it. Also, I find the kiss to be very sweet. Kids between 2 and 8 or so wont really understand the so called "sexual tension" through out the movie. The kids will be focusing on the movie in a way that will get their imagination flowing, not how Wendy "wants" Peter.

This movie is my favorite movie. The way Neverland was introduced really took me by suprize, but in a good way. The acting was magificent and touching.I dont see how people can say this movie is boring, or too long. It's just right. The soundtrack, though I have yet to buy it, is incredible and really makes your imagination soar. I reacomend "Peter Pan" to anyone who is willing to become a kid again, if only until the credits roll!! I would give this movie 10 stars, but I can only go up to 5!!!