"The Illusionist" does not fail to entertain.  The film satisfies a wide audience with its ability to weave romance, mystery, and suspense all into one plot.  Right from the beginning of the film, the understated texture of the film adds an appealing aesthetic quality that draws the audience to wonder what secrets and illusions lie deeper below the surface.

The beginning scene sets the stage for the rest of the film.  Eisenheim (Edward Norton) performs a scandalous magic trick on stage that causes terror and fright in his audience.  Inspector Uhl (Paul Giamati) then attempts to arrest Eisenheim on the account of disturbing the peace.  The rest of the film follows a back and forth movement of events that gradually reveal the mystery of Eisenheim's past, present, and future.

All of the events in the movie revolve around the young adolescent love between Eisenheim and his beloved Sophie (Jessica Biel) that ended when Sophie's family separated her from Eisenheim.  Their love seems tragically lost until they are reunited by chance 15 years later.  At the time, Sophie is more or less betrothed to Crown Prince Leopold (Rufus Sewell) and seems set to marry him until fate brings Eisenheim back to her. The strange thing about their evolving love is that things aren't always what they seem.  The two lovers experience joy and tragedy through dramatic events.  The audience may be convinced that Eisenheim and Sophie's love is all but lost...until an unforeseen twist is revealed.

Even though "The Illusionist" is more or less a romance story, it will entertain multiple audiences.  There is no real in-depth character development, but the mysteriousness of each character helps to add to the enigmatic theme of the plot.  Each scene of the movie leads the audience to question and predict the acts and motives of the great Eisenheim.  Viewers may think they have solved the mystery of the lovers, but they will be astonished by the small details that are gradually revealed throughout the film.

"The Illusionist" possesses uniqueness in its delivery of plotline.  The qualities of the movie are of a different variety than most romance and suspense movies.  You will definitely want to watch it more than once to catch all of the small details.