If the opening credits  weren't the perfect set-up for this astral balls to the wall mind bender then nothing would be. What we have here is not so much a film, but more of a first-person simulation. The film chronicles the life and after-birth of a drug dealer that occasionally likes to trip on DMT, and winds up turning into a pervert ghost that basically floats around watching people have sex, and sometimes taking on their experience. But sure that description is only a small fraction of what actually happens in this film.

This film shares the same ethos of Stan Brakhage of treating the camera like an eye, and capturing things normally not captured in normal everyday human experience. Immediately we are brought into this film, as the protagonist, literally sharing every eye-blink with him, and then we are tripping on DMT. I would say the way the director captured this was pretty accurate, and very entrancing. It's when the character dies and we become a floating ghost, does the film take another drastic turn. We are presented with a lot of flashbacks of the character's childhood, which was captured in a way that Terrence Malick portrayed it in the brilliant Tree of Life. And these moments of the film are truly heartbreaking and shocking. The balance of intense visuals and poignant interactions with characters, is another thing that makes the film excellent.

It should be noted that this film is also very visually stimulating, though not in an overly-saturated photoshop sense, even though it reminds a little of that, it finds unique ways to show the beauty of Tokyo nightlife, and showcases amazing set design that doesn't appear to be too touched-up in post. The one complaint I have, and it left a foul taste in my mouth though I see why the director chose to do this, was the overuse of long-takes. This is a long film, but the final hour could've been cut down a lot in my opinion. The whole scene in the Love Hotel of watching all the various characters having sex, got very stale after ten minutes, and everything afterwards, though slightly interesting was just a little too self-indulgent. Though the reality was there (I suppose though we are presupposing what happens to us after we die) with the long-takes, there was just no need for them to get the point across.

All in all, this is a very powerful and incredible achievement of a film, which was more of a simulated life and death experience in my mind. If death is truly as beautiful and hallucinatory as Enter the Void makes it out to be, then I think I might be in trouble.

Bottom line: This is a phenomenal experience incomparable to anything I have ever seen. Highly recommended.