After many long years of waiting has finally come, and with American Pie 4: The class reunion is now the third sequel to the cult comedy cinema.

Caveat: The wait has been worth it! Just as everyone is at ease in front of his class reunion. The stars of the past, have lost nothing.

We have seen the movie on 04/24/2012 at Herne in the sold-out preview.

With this 4th Part of it is the creators Jon Hurwitz and Hayden Schlossberg, Chris Weitz, Paul Weitz and for the first time as Executive Producers Jason Biggs and Seann William Scott worked perfectly all the characters, and that really all the characters back into their roles back to the screen to bring .

When the film began and now sparkled even the first song with the Universal globe on the screen, it was clear we are back in the American Pie universe.

American Pie 4 is completely on the nostalgia factor, and this is precisely the strength of the film. We are also explained in exactly the characters so we feel as if you never left. Stifler is, as always, has not achieved much, and still lives with his mum, Finch is the coolest type on earth, Oz is a sports presenter and famous celebrity dance-off (Here is also a cool cameo by Neil Patrick Harris), Jim and Michelle are married or have a young son but your relationship seems to problem, Vicky is single and looking forward to the reunion, Heather has a devious doctor as a friend, and Kevin is now home and looks far too much television.

The good thing about this film is that he remains true to himself and relies on nostalgia, and not tailored to the hangover generation. Just dig at the Hangover, Justin Bieber and Twilight has me very much. I'm Twilight opponents and makes Stifler down Twilight, what more could you want ;) Right here comes the boys a high school reunion just right, but you quickly find that it is just not as used to. And here is another very Decisive thickness of the film, as falls or is hereby this film. When the guys come together, it really is with immediate effect as the past. You have lost nothing, wit, charm swipes everything is back to it without ever come to below the belt. Stifler's perpetual loggerheads with Finch (problem: Stifler's mom). This time also allowed Jim and Stifler's mom with dad at the party and just the two concerns for a lot of jokes. Overall, the whole film a gag fireworks. It is an absolute fan film. All the memories are just fun part 1-3. The stories about each character was lovingly and worked out in minute detail. Even the little cameos from Milf Guy 1 and 2, Nadia, Sherman and Jessica are just great.

Spoiler! Personally, I love the fact that Finch evolved and no longer thinks only of Stifler's mom. Stifler Gets His Revenge (A certain mother shows up) Jim and Michelle, as always, is the final. Heather and Oz have for me personally, but the most beautiful part of the whole movie. At the end of the film for any fan or a reference to part 5 is provided. End spoiler! For me, the soundtrack is a very important point. Part 4 has a very good soundtrack, but he can not reach the other soundtracks of 1-3.

The acting was just as benefits are very good in Parts 1-3 and even Tara Reid (Vicky Lathum) can sometimes points here ;). At the end remains to say who'd like to have long loud laugh in this film is just right. If you could start with the parts 1-3 can probably nothing will not do anything with this part. Although everyone has to try it yourself ;).

Who was the trailer is already well surprised as the movie itself is still a lot better. The film holds more than it promises, and I was not disappointed as the Years of a fan but I think with such a high level to please even a 5th Part will follow. I could continue writing long hours but then I would make the film a synopsis ;) American Pie 1 9/10 American Pie 2 10/10 American Pie 3 9/10 American Pie 4 9/10 Be sure to sit up after the credits remain important ;) American Pie 4 gets me 9/10 but only in comparison to Part 1-3 smooth or he would get 10/10. That's just American Pie brute with a heart.

Im From Germany and i Love the American Pie Movies