I am a really big fan of the Dukes of Hazzard TV show. I was excited when I heard they were making a movie till I found out who was in the cast . . . but I kept an open mind hoping that it would be good anyway. When I saw it my fears were confirmed  . . . this movie stinks! It's not totally awful but the only thing true fans are going to recongnize here is the car. The awesome stunts save the film from its bad casting. Whoever did the casting for this film should be shot. First of all Jessica Simpson is a rotten actress. She is not even that hot they could have gotten someone better . . . actually anyone would have been better. The guys playing Bo and Luke are stupid but they are not the worst thing about this film.  I think Burt Reynolds is off the mark as Boss Hogg. The charm that made the show a success is not here. I think Danny Devito would have been a great Boss Hogg. They needed a comedian as Rosco . . . Rosco was too serious here.  Personally I think Daisy Duke should have been played by Hillary Swank because she has a hillbilly charm and she sort of reminds me of Catherine Bach . . . who by the way is sexy. To all those sad boys out there who think Jessica Simpson was good in this film . . . check out the TV show . . . that is how a woman is suppose to look in the Daisy Duke shorts.  Even by today's standards the origanally Daisy is Hot. No one can replaced Tom Wopat and John Schneider either. The original Bo and Luke weren't stupid . . . they were cool.  I could go on and on here pointing out what could have been done to fix this lame movie but that would be pointless. My reveiw is this . . . the movie is a bomb but it is worth seeing for the stunts alone . . . the car does some amazing jumps. Duke fans are probably going to hate this movie because it is embarrassing. Those who never saw the show or who actually like Jessica Simpson (God Help you) will probably love this film. If you have never seen the tv show I recommend you check it out on DVD. I think then you will see why fans are upset.