Firstly, let me start this review by saying this film is certainly not for everyone.  You either get it, or you don't...it's as simple as that.
Robin Williams gives a stunning performance in this psychological thriller that is sure to at the very least, get him an Oscar nomination nod.  Williams plays "Sy the Photo Guy" at a discount store  Sav-Mart which, for all of us in America is all too familiar.  Sy takes absolute care and pride in his work, to the point of obsession (the altercation with the photo processing technician gives you your first peak at just how seriously Sy takes his work).  Sy becomes obsessed over one family in particular and dreams of becoming part of the family as "Unlce Sy".  Seemingly harmless on the surface, you find  that as the film progresses Sy may not be as harmless as one would think.
In the opening sequence, Sy narrates a tale of his customers from the new parent with the endless rolls of film, to the amatuer pornographer, which at this point you start to think, "should I be taking all of my film to the same place to be developed?"
Mark Romanek's theatrical debut as a director is stunnng.  The camera work is exceptional, from the enormous glaring halogen staleness of the Sav-Mart, to the drab environment in which Sy lives in at home, to the warm inviting coloration of the family to which he has become, in his own mind, an important figure in.  The set design, costumes and overall look and feel of this film is realistic, and yet has moments where the glaring sterility of everyday life for  a middle aged single male practically smacks you in the face.
Some people may find the film a tad slow, but every single frame of this is neccessary in order to fully develop the feeling, mood and the characters themselves.  
In particular, the ending is something that you absoluetly do not expect, but give yourself a couple of moments to think and it will become very clear as to what the motivation of the characters, screenwriter and director was.
I admit this film is not for everyone, but if  you find that you are searching for a film with a bit more depth and are willing to think your way through this, it is well worth the effort and money.