This was the first time I had seen the actual full-length coverage of the Kennedy assassination and it was horrifying and gut-wrenching.  I didn't see a president being assassinated, I saw a husband being murdered in a very gruesome way.  Whatever his flaws, you could tell his wife loved him and cared deeply for him.  I don't know why I haven't watched this until now, I guess partly because it's something else I would rather not have to deal with and it's become a big laughing matter in our society with a Seinfeld episode and the "second spitter".  It's also not something you talk about in "polite" company. It felt very much like it felt on 9/11.

The documentary starts with the news coverage of the president's arrival and then goes over every detail frame by frame; it goes over the autopsy photos, the medical artist renderings,  the photos and x-rays released on a FOIA request, the doctors and nurses' testimonies, the various video recordings and photographs and tells you what the Warren Commission found as well as what they covered up or ignored.

There's much to learn, I suppose I'll need to find the "Popular Mechanics" version of the story to understand what officialdom says on the matter.  However digging deeper doesn't mean that much to me because I know what the secret societies in control of our government are capable of.

It was nice to see the courage of the hundreds of citizens who charged the grassy knoll unafraid of a man who had a gun and had just murdered someone.  It was a satisfying look into the past and I had to wonder if the scared little lambs that call themselves Americans today would do the same or if they would flee in terror.

It also seems pointless to look further into this based on my experience with those who believe the government and mainstream media line on 9/11.  Not one person that I have come in contact with that believes the official conspiracy theory has ever looked into the evidence that contradicts it.  They stay in their safe little world of Rush Limbaugh, Glenn Beck, Sean Hannity and the litany of liberal talk show hosts and say to themselves "if it was a conspiracy, I would know, these people I trust would tell me so and more people would know."  It's truth by numbers...a democracy of truth if you will--courage by numbers. It's a sad and disgusting commentary on society.  Anyway that is my experience. So long story short, I say to myself, what is the point?

"And seeing the people in a state of such awful wickedness, and those Gadianton robbers filling the judgment-seats -- having usurped the power and authority of the land; laying aside the commandments of God, and not in the least aright before him; doing no justice unto the children of men; Condemning the righteous because of their righteousness; letting the guilty and the wicked go unpunished because of their money; and moreover to be held in office at the head of government, to rule and do according to their wills, that they might get gain and glory of the world, and, moreover, that they might the more easily commit adultery, and steal, and kill, and do according to their own wills."