This is a great movie for the Sci-fi and lovers of alien encounters.  Since it was filmed back in the late 70's it has aged surprisingly well. The plot follows a visitor Thomas Jerome Newton (David Bowie) from another planet on a well thought out survival plan to bring water back to his drought stricken planet. Early on in the film you can appreciate just how much care and planning has gone into the aliens only hope for survival, from having numerous engraved "wedding rings" to pawn to build up working capital to filing for patents on alien technology. Although there isn't a clear indication of the passage of time you get the feeling of the story spanning decades. David Bowie's character becomes more and more reclusive yet ever pushing towards his goal.  The alien's plan is on track and is perhaps too successful when it draws the attention of some powerful business interests.  Things start to go awry as the visitor is tempted and slowly drawn into the vices of humans. Sex and alcohol slowly and irrevocably corrupt the already isolated alien.  Just when he is about to achieve his goal and thereby rescue his dying planet he is betrayed and his friends and allies are stripped from him to leave him isolated trapped more by his vices than a locked door.  Here you get the impression of the advance of time, as his remaining friends grow old while he remains the same age. 
"The Man Who Fell to Earth" has a very isolated and depressing feeling to it. The visual impression is raw and gritty; it leads the viewer towards the plot rather than distracting them. There are some disturbing visuals in this movie like realistic vomiting but the violence in the film is used as a valid vehicle for the plot. There is also a fair sprinkling of nudity including Candy Clark, David Bowie and a full frontal nudity of a lecherous collage professor (Rip Torn) as he is seen replaying the same sex scene with numerous female collage students.
"The Man Who Fell to Earth" is a film you have to pay attention to fully enjoy it and it is worth viewing a few times to get all plot devices.