One: The wolves could have been BETTER!! NO the wolves SHOULD have been BETTER!!! Where's the guy who did the wolves from Underworld.

Two: The soundtrack for this movie......REALLY?  Did you NOT HAVE ANY idea of what songs to pick for this movie. (i will say that out of all the songs i ONLY LIKED TWO songs. that's it(Rosyln & Possibility))

Three: The Quileute Pack.... Those boys/men (especially Jacob & Paul) could not have been any better. Although i never made it above there chest, sooooo.

Four: The scene with Bella and Alice in the Yellow Porsche (which was vital in the book), was just plan sad. Well the part where she is SUPPOSED to be driving crazy fast, is just sad.

Five: Chris Weitz should have known that he was out of his league for CERTAIN parts of this movie and just been a man and asked for help. I mean when your out of your league, then your out of your league.....simple.

Six: I only went to see this movie ONCE, i figured i would just wait for it to come out on dvd, instead of wasting money in the theatre to see it. In other words i went to see avatar about 5 times instead of going to see New Moon. I thought it would have been the other way around.

Seven: I personally would have liked to see more scenes straight from the book. I did like how they added to the movie, which kind of made up for the lack of cgi(i mean really? i can't get over the wolves). The Volturi was pretty dead on, especially compared to the book. They added a little, but overall, not bad with the Volturi.

Eight: You are NOT going to like the ending. IT IS NOT HOW THE BOOK ENDS. Chris should have stuck to New Moon's (THE BOOK) ENDING NOT HIS!!  Again, why Chris Weitz?  Why?

Nine: OVERALL!!
I am a fan of the series therefore i support the movies even if they are not the best. I just hope Eclipse is better. I am the same way about the Harry Potter books and movie. I was disappointed with The Half Blood Prince, but i still bought the movie. It is vital when you have already started buying the series (movie or book). I feel the same way here. I loved Twilight, New Moon was OK, which means Eclipse better be AMAZING, but i'll settle for GOOD.