I recently had the opportunity to view Stephan King's screenplay version of his classic horror novel. It is mostly true to the story line in the book; however, there are some disappointing aspects of the miniseries verson in comparison to Kubrick's 1980 classic.
The music in the original was more erie, and as the movie progressed it got all the more intense as you could get the feeling that things were begining to unravel at the Overlook. I didn't feel that same effect while viewing the King version.
When you compare the part of Jack Torrance first played by Jack Nicholson then later by Weber, I find that Jack Nicholson is a far more convincing Jack Torrance. Let's face it, after starring in "One Flew over the Cuckoos Nest" the part of Jack Torrance was perfect for him. Perhaps I expected too much from Steven Weber(he had some really big shoes to fill after Nicholson Play the part earlier), but give Weber his due. He did a great job late in the movie battling his demons.
Rebecca DeMornay does a fine job as Wendy, and compared to the Wendy played by Shelly Duvall in the original,she comes through with a strong performance. There is much more mother-son interaction in the King version, and DeMorney plays a quite forceful character in comparison.
The hedge animals coming to life just didn't hit it in this movie. In fact, I thought it to be quite cheesy.  When I read the novel many years ago, I imagined those hedge animals to be very scary, but even the special effects were ineffective and actually comical.
The scene at the end of the film was unnecessary. The spirit of Jack coming to Danny's graduation was an add-on, it was not in the novel. I appreciated the fact that they ended the movie true to the book (the boiler), where in the original it ended with Jack in the hedge maze.
I'd say this six hour screenplay should be a part of every Stephen King fan's video or DVD collection, because both the classic and the newer version offer great entertainment-even if the newer version is a bit lumbering and not as scary.