I love "The Ninth Gate".  I have seen it many times since I first rented it back in the summer of 2000, and after buying it about a year or so later I have always made it a point to view it regularly.  Director Roman Polanski has given us another masterpiece of horror with some good touches of comedy, all wrapped up in a cloak of atmosphere so thick that you could cut it with a knife.  While I am not a die-hard fan of Polanski in the way I am with directors such as Tim Burton, I have seen and enjoyed very much three of his films: "Rosemary's Baby", "The Fearless Vampire Killers", and "Frantic", and have observed elements found in each of those three movies to be definitely present in this one.  "The Ninth Gate" obviously has its maker's fingerprints all over it, which is good news for fans of his work.
"The Ninth Gate" works great as a detective story, which is really what it is more a horror film.  Johnny Depp, my favorite actor hands down, takes us on a bizarrely fascinating journey through Portugal and France hoping to track down two of the three remaining copies of a book apparantly written by Satan himself during the Middle Ages.  Along the way, we watch him being followed and see some suspicious setbacks occur, along with his dealings with his employer, a millionaire Satanist by the name of Boris Balkan.  
The good things I have to say about this film: first, the directing is fantastic, atmospheric and spellbinding.  You will be totally immersed in the goings-on of this film, in spite of its numerous quiet and thoughtful moments and overall slow-moving nature.  The European location work is gorgeous ... we see some beautiful and sinister cities, castles, and countrysides.  The movie looks and feels great.  Also, a bizarre and interesting choice was made to cast the same man as four different characters, who(m) we meet two at a time, first and then again later, in the same location.  Was this supposed to be symbolic or indicate something implicitly to the audience?
Second, the musical score by a fellow named Wojciech Kilar is beautiful; its haunting, subtle, and quiet.  It perfectly accents the scenes it plays behind, in no way upstaging the action or even drawing attention to itself.  Also, I loved the soloist (a Korean girl, I understand) who sang during the opening and ending credits.  I find it appalling that during the trailers advertising this film, they played some awful new-metal-crud in an effort to get all the MTV kids into the theater.  As awful as this was, I am very thankful that none of this music found its way into the movie itself ... it would be entirely inappropriate.  Kilar's compositions are spot-on perfect, and nothing else should have been used.
Third, I was really taken by the fascinating artwork done for the engravings.  They were almost tarot-cardish, and very bizarre.  I particularly liked the one of the guy hanging by his foot from a noose (and the way it figured into a later scene after we see it for the first time) and the image of the maze with the castle turrets.  The moment when we see the initials "LCF" in tiny letters hidden on particular ones was absolutely chilling.
Fourthly and finally, in spite of the fact that Johnny Depp is my favorite actor, I must say that it was Frank Langella as Boris Balkan who stole this movie away.  Balkan is a fascinating character, from his special library (did anyone notice the passcode he entered to unlock its door?) to his attitude toward phony Satanists (his little "Boo!" moment was classic), all the way to his unfortunate end.  His dedication to his beliefs could be both inspiring and frightening (check out what he says to Corso, Depp's character, when he tells him that the book has been stolen from his hotel room), and I enjoyed every moment that had him on the screen.  Langella's Balkan definitely comes away as this movie's most memorable character.  I am now very interested in seeing the version of "Dracula" he did back in the 1970s.
One final thing: I found interesting the director's choice to present Satanism in a more objective light than would normally done in films such as these.  I understand that Polanski really has no religious beliefs, so as far as he's concerned one is as good as another.  While I do not agree with this, it certainly makes for an interesting and original approach to the subject matter, and really works for this movie's benefit. 
Give "The Ninth Gate" a try today.  The DVD has some good extras, including a nice commentary with the director, and the film itself has a very high rewatchablity factor.  You'll find yourself wanting to put this one into the player again and again as time goes on, and you'll find something new to enjoy about it every time.  Go for it!  You'll thank me.
Carry on Carry on,
MN