I am an Usui Shiki Ryoho Reiki Master and shamanic practitioner. I don't teach and I am currently doing energy healing volunteer work so I don't have any financial interests in selling or not selling any books or materials and only offer my experience and opinion for the consideration of others thinking about taking Reiki or purchasing any healing books, DVDs, and training/classes.

I had one on one training from a Karuna Reiki Master. Can you learn such practices from books and DVDs? Sure, but the in person training from someone who has genuine interest in these practices can't be replaced and the ongoing relationship and guidance from the Reiki Master who taught/attuned me has been extremely helpful. Unfortunately not everyone is a good and dedicated teacher and some are caught up in ego and making money rather than being of service to others. And perhaps some have not put in the work to learn what they should to be effective teachers and frankly some are still trying to charge the ridiculous $10,000 fee hoping to snag a sucker. The person who attuned me through the Reiki levels up to Master has been practicing for 11-12 years and received Karuna training about 8 years ago. Some of the comments about secrecy in Reiki in the customer comments and in Mr. Murray's books are a great shame to me since this is simply not what I was taught. I was not left puzzled about any of the aspects of Reiki and none of the symbols were represented as secret. On the contrary, the Reiki Master taught me that the symbols are available on the Internet and the purpose of not showing the symbols is a practice of respect not secrecy. It is too bad that apparently some try to make healing practices into something they are not out of misunderstanding or whatever else.

Before taking the Reiki Master attunement I was curious about the DVD and purchased it. I didn't feel anything after watching it and receiving the DVD attunement. In the attunements from the Reiki Master I had experiences that simply did not happen with the DVD. The distant/DVD attunements may work, but after using this DVD I feel these attunements are of lesser quality. Perhaps that is why some of the comments from customers are that they feel more power, etc. when they repeat the attunements. I have never had the need to repeat an attunement, but maybe because I already possessed healing and some psychic ability I may different from others regarding the Reiki experience. I know some Reiki Masters have taken classes from other Reiki Masters to learn new techniques, but don't know if repeated attunements do anything extra since the attunements are supposed to last a lifetime. I plan to try the Vol 5 attunements and report of my experience. If you want to try the distance attunement route a search of the internet shows people willing to do distance attunements for $10 and for free on YouTube.

I have purchased Reiki, The Ultimate Guide volumes 1 & 5 (<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0974256919">Reiki The Ultimate Guide Learn Sacred Symbols & Attunements plus Reiki Secrets You Should Know</a>, <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0979217784">Reiki the Ultimate Guide Vol. 5 Learn New Psychic Attunements to Expand Psychic Gifts & Healing (Reiki: The Ultimate Guide)</a>) again out of curiosity. The attunements differ from what I was taught from William Lee Rand's books. If I were to teach a Reiki class I would prefer using William Lee Rand's books since they give more information on healing sessions. This is not to say Mr. Murray's books aren't of value. Since I don't teach and have not performed any attunements I cannot comment on the quality of the attunements in Mr. Murray's books. The pictures clearly illustrate Mr. Murray's system and the majority of the books are on the various attunements as Murray emphasizes healing attunements. I differ with Mr. Murray on some of his teachings/statements; however, overall the books do contain quite a bit of information although some of it is very short especially given the attention to the attunements versus healing sessions. There is little on hand positions for healing sessions and subjects like the difference between using touch versus holding the hands above the person receiving the treatment. The explanation of the chakras could be better/fuller and there is no mention of the potential release of kundalini. His section on beaming only shows beaming from the hands. The Reiki Spirit Board is a Ouija board with Reiki symbols on it--not sure why that would even be in the book when you can just buy a Ouija board and put some Reiki energy into it and the symbols on it. I haven't done any of the psychic attunements so I can't comment on whether they would expand my psychic abilities. Perhaps there more information on healing sessions, etc. contained in his other books and DVDs. If you want to see some free clips of William Lee Rand's style made available by his publisher Sounds True, search on his name at YouTube and you can watch him give a healing session, etc. These clips were from his kit <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/159179370X">The Reiki Touch: Complete Home Learning System</a>.