It was said that Catch Me If You Can and the Gangs of New York are testing stones for the box office attraction of Leonardo DiCaprio after the failure of The Beach. Indeed Leo did a very good job in Catch Me If You Can. Co-starring with Tom Hanks, whose acting is nearly unquestionable; Leo's performance is no second grade to Tom. Telling the true story of Frank Abagnale Jr., a 16 year old school boy turned fraud cheque expert, Leonardo has captured the essence of the character who show gradual psychological changes with huge dilemma inside: on one hand he needs to survive in the cruel material world and on the other hand he doesn't want to be hunted down as a criminal. He took up different fake roles as a pilot, a doctor and a lawyer, which all requires strict standard of accreditation without being questioned. However, he who scored all these successes was not happy with his life. He tried to confess to his father-in-law to be but was not taken seriously. It is sometimes interesting that people would prefer to believe in lies instead of the truth. The problem is where is the truth for this tragic character now? Also where could he position himself in the world while he believes there is nobody to trust anymore? His father is far from being able to help, while his mother is already occupied with a new family, he seemed to be alone and on the run by himself. Strangely enough, Tom Hanks, who was the agent to catch him for his deeds become his only soul mate that he could call on Christmas Eves. The tie between these characters are interesting in a way that both saw something inside each other, but because of the difference in position that they could not let each other have a minute of rest. This is a very touching story delivered by two really really good actors who brought these two real characters back to life again in front of the audience. Leonardo DiCaprio's performance is way back on track and Tom Hanks' attention to details in character building is just shockingly good. These are the characters that you would care for during the movie, for you would find it difficult to stay on a bystander's point of view.