Everyone thinks this movie is about baseball, but it isn't, not really.  It is about much more.  It is about fathers and sons, and how baseball, since the early 20th century, is able to tie them together, even when they can't bring themselves to speak to one another.  Every time I see this movie, I am reminded of my own relationship with my father, and the ups and downs we have traversed in our relationship.  No matter how much we would argue, and antagonize each other, we always had baseball to fall back on as our common denominator.  In this movie, Ray Kinsella (Kevin Costner) is so haunted by the mistakes he made in his relationship with his father, that he manifests The Voice, which tells him to build a baseball diamond in the middle of his cornfield.  To show you how bad his relationship with his dad had gotten, Ray tells James Earl Jones's character that he once refused to play a game of catch with him.  But by building the field, Ray helps to resurrect Shoeless Joe Jackson, his father's disgraced baseball idol, and maybe make a little bit of ammends.  Ray gives Shoeless Joe, and the other "Black Socks" players a chance at redemption by being able to play in this magical field.  Through other acts that Ray commits on order from The Voice, he helps others fulfill their baseball tinted dreams.  The others being a writer, Terrance Mann (James Earl Jones), who yearns for the days of Ebbets Field and Jackie Robinson, and a country doctor and former minor league baseball player, Moonlight Graham (Burt Lancaster), whose one unfulfilled wish is to bat against a big league pitcher.  During the movie, we are led to believe that he commits these acts out of some random nature, the only reason being that The Voice told him to.  But in the end of the movie, we, along with Ray, realize that everything he has done is connected, and has a reason.  And it all comes back to fathers and sons, and the dreams we share, and our almost spiritual connection through the greatest game ever dreamt by God or man, baseball.  If you are a man, and as a boy you ever played catch with your father, then this film should touch you in a very personal way.  If you shed no tear at the wonderful ending, then you aren't a real man.