When this movie came to Houston, I didn't even know it existed. Then, two Aussie friends convinced me to see it with them. I think I was the only American in an audience of perhaps twenty Aussies, in the only theater in Houston showing the movie.
The movie begins with news footage from the 60s and the days of the Apollo moon missions, and as an Apollo buff, I was hooked immediately. The fundamental, factual story line concerns the use of the Parkes Radiotelescope in New South Wales, Australia, as the primary receiving station for Apollo 11's broadcast of Armstrong and Aldrin walking on the moon.
There's much more to this movie than a sidebar on Apollo 11, however. The primary characters are the people who run the telescope, and they're a very human, if not subtly quirky lot. The movie has several story angles including Aussie pride, Aussie politics, Aussie humor, and a little bit of innocent romance. Throughout the movie, the team manning Parkes grapples with technical problems, both self-inflicted and from Mother Nature, leaving you wondering if they'll actually pull off their small but not insignificant contribution to history. More importantly, the movie brings back memories of the awe the world felt as we watched two brave men become the first to set foot on another world.
Sam Neill is just right as Cliff, the fatherly radioastronomer who is the Parkes director. Since I saw the movie with Aussies, I learned that many of the bit parts are played by classic Aussie character actors. Everytime one of them appeared in a cameo role, the audience cooed with delight.
The cinematography is great and shows the rural New South Wales countryside at its best. The soundtrack contains numerous hits from the 60s and fits into the story well.
The movie is great for children, though I think it does contain a small amount of strong language (generally uttered in a classic, low-key, Aussie fashion).
Recently, I watched the movie again in high definition on HBO and was just as enthralled the second time as I was the first. I strongly recommend it.