NOTE:  I was wondering why this show didn't have a five-star, because of faulty DVDs.

I bought my set for $40 and bought it on a fling that Steve Buscemi was the main character in it, and from the very first episode I was thrown into Atlantic City.  This has to be the best show I have ever watched next to Dexter.  The 1920's atmosphere is very apparent and the show doesn't force this atmosphere on you.  ALL the characters are dynamic in their own way.  Noche (Steve) Thompson being the kind-hearted, yet dark aperture of crime in Atlantic City.  His character is the most intriguing next to Jimmy, a young man returning mentally and physically scarred from France during The First World War.  Al Capone makes more than a cameo as joking lackey of the Chicago gang (forgot name, if there was one).  More and more and more characters that you'd expect from a big budget HBO series...  Every episode of the 12 (730 minutes, 12 hours, 2 min intro, 2 min credits) are just as memorable as the last and plots and story lines twists together on the show's road to its series finale.  It kind of copies Godfather (Part I) in its series finale and it's very satisfying, and kind of makes sense with Martin Scorsese as one of the producers...

I bought the blu-ray set.  If you buy the DVD's, fine.  If you have a large HD television and you buy the DVD, you need to stop wasting money.  This is one of the best looking Blu-rays I have ever watched (compared to Avatar, Terminator: Salvation, and [American] Girl With The Dragon Tattoo).  The color on their suites are defined in ways only demos in the department stores can make them shine.  A bright and inviting presentation that can leave you immersed in the grittiness of the portrayed Atlantic City.  Can't really comment on sound to give audiophiles are well deserved review on it, but I listened to it on high volumes at times (5.1 Dolby Surround Sound) and the ambient noise of the 1920's was as apparent and satisfying, I recommend high volume play.  What do you expect, it's top notch.

If you like any gangster movie, get this one!  Politics were the first gangsters, and Noche Thompson sits high on the list.