I received this dvd set 2 weeks ago and I have been doing it religiously every single day!!! (I also have Fat Blaster, Live Booty Sculpt + Abs, and Kick Punch and Jam!) It's a great workout, and I sweat so much more than I do at the gym. I find myself really pushing myself with these workouts. For reference, I am really fit, about 5'4" 119lbs and I take pilates 3 times a week, do some elliptical and running here and there, but I am always ready to do my TJ workout every night. Even when I feel like crap, I put this DVD in and the opening music gets me ready to workout. The only downside is my quad muscles are becoming HUGE! I need to maybe do this 3x a week instead of 7 :P Once I'm doing it, I get so into it, and afterwards I feel very good about myself. Here's a breakdown of my reviews for each workout:

Learn & Burn: Very helpful, learn the moves straight off the bat and work up a sweat right after. It gets you excited. I did this on the first day and it got me excited to do TJ the next day. Only had to do this once since I've taken a lot of cardio kickboxing classes. It's easy to follow!

20 Min Workout: Great when you don't have a lot of time! Downside is there is a lot of uppercuts in here, I was hoping for more variety like in Fat Blaster, but nonetheless you still burn calories and have fun. There's even a Turbo in here! I usually do this workout with Fat Blaster, Ab Jam, or Turbo Sculpt.

Turbo Sculpt: I love this workout! I use 2.5 weights so I don't bulk up too fast, and I sweat like crazy within the first 5 minutes. I've never used weights like this before and time FLIES. All the moves are original and you'll get a great inner thigh and arm workout with this one.

Cardio Party 1: Amazing cardio workout. My mom takes kickboxing, zumba, and spinning, and she says this is the best workout she's ever done. It feels good and works out all your muscles. I love all the Turbos and fun moves here. I don't like all the lunges but hey you gotta do what you gotta do, that's just me! I sweat more doing this than running 3 miles on a track! I especially love the cool-down. The music is awesome and the capoeira moves are fun + a little bit like sexy workout dance moves. 40 mins of fun in this one.

Ab Jam: My abs are burning after this one. It says it's 40 mins long, but it's only 20 mins long- 10min standing ab workout and 10min mat ab exercises. By the time you get to the floor exercises, your abs will be burning! Use this with one of the cardio workouts and you'll get great results.