I guess the powers that be figured they could make enough money just from those of us who bought this set before knowing about the removal of the cover songs.  I had hoped that since Joey Scarbury sang these songs-unlike Rocket Man and Help Me Rhonda from season 1-that they could get around the whole license problem.  Or maybe they'd come to their senses after seeing that Miami Vice season 1 kept all its songs; so it could be monetarily feasible.  But nooooo!!  You can forget about the days when the customer was always right.  The manufacturer does not cater to the consumer, rather the opposite actually.  And all of our protests won't even reach their deaf ears.  Even if many, many people decide not to buy this set from what we've written here, the corporations will easily make up the difference in selling some other hot dvd title.  It is a sad time indeed when we have so many things to buy, but everything is sub-par in some way.  This was one of my favorite shows.  In my dreams, when I was a kid, I had to take three running steps before I could fly.  Ralph was a role model for me.  This show touched my young heart and mind.  And Operation: Spoilsport was its highpoint.  It was the realization of everything good about the series.  It was funny, while being dramatic and suspenseful.  It was about an ordinary man fighting the will of a corrupt government official.  And Scarbury's rendering of the classic Bob Dylan song Eve of Destruction was what made it work.  The song is powerful.  And it is just as true today as it was when Dylan wrote it.  "The eastern world, it is exploding; violence flaring, bullets loading.."  For those who don't understand why the original music is so important, let me say that music defines generations.  Songs are not just something to dance to or hum along with, they are anthems.  Each and every one of us has a song that we feel defines us, or our lives at a particular time and place.  These songs were put into tv shows for this very reason.  Music touches us in a way that nothing else can.  Think of the music for Jaws, or Psycho, Star Wars, Superman.  The most of a change we can hope for is that these corporations will start putting warning labels on dvds.  "Contains changes from original soundtrack"  They were quick to slap labels on Heavy Metal tapes and cds.  Let's see how responsive they'll be to this.  But someone would need to start such a movement.  Who's with me?