To me, Intruder signals the end of an era of classic horror movies. From the early 1970's to this film in 1988, horror fans were treated to the most amazing gory shockers ever made in the Exploitation, Grindhouse, and golden age of Slasher cinema. After Intruder, the 90's ushered in tame bloodless films with bad digital effects which lasted until the dawn of the 21st century, and at present we seem to be back to violence,blood, and gore albeit not as original as it was in the 70s and 80s.

Intruder was also the film that the KNB effects crew used to jumpstart their careers as a single company and this film features some of their best gore effects, even now. Everything about this film, from the casting to the gore, and music score, screams classic slasher and one could initally think this film came out in 1981 along with The Burning and The Prowler.

However, Intruder delivers a dose of humor that seems to carry over from Evil Dead 2 and into this film. In a wierd way, I see this film as a companion piece to Evil Dead two. They share some of the same cast and most of the same crew. From Sam & Ted Raimi, to Bruce Campbell, the KNB guys and Scott Speigel, this film is an obvious labor of love for the genre carried out by friends with their hearts in the right place.

While the Wizard DVD release was uncut, this Blu Ray is an absolute must have. The new cover art, the vinatage 8 MM footage prior to the films creation, the additional gore sequences, and the new featurette with cast and crew interviews - All make this release an easy choice for slasher fans and fans of 1980's horror cinema. The new transfer of the film alone would warrant re-purchase because the film looks ten time better than it did on the Wizard release. I hope you like the color of blood, because this new transfer makes sure that every drop is literally popping out of your screen.

While there are still literally hundreds of films from the heydey of horror needing release on DVD (or even better, Blu Ray), Intruder is a much welcome addition to any horror fan's Blu Ray collection.