I loved this show when it was on t.v. way back when. There was star wars at the movies and then it seemed battle star galactica and buck rogers soon followed on t.v. and I got hooked on them all. For one low price you are getting all of season one and all of season 2 that was produced (which was 13 episodes). Personally I loved season 1 and after watching the whole set recently I don't know if or when I will plop season 2 back in a dvd player as I think there were only 2 episodes out of season 2 I really enjoyed.

I want to avoid the typical "me to" post and will not repeat all the reasons given in other reviews about why the show was good but instead go into why I got this set. I have noticed an increasing gap between what I like on television and what they produce. In the last year I think my must see t.v. shows have fallen to just about.. none. Seriously I have tried again and again to get into something on t.v.  and can't find anything on regular t.v. and only a few shows on cable/sattelite I like. What do I find myself doing? Raiding my DVD collection every night and putting some DVDs on. I been collecting t.v. series for awhile now and watch those many nights instead of regular t.v and Buck Rogers fits right in there. Is Buck Rogers in the 25th century something I will watch every night? No. Will I put it on the shelf and watch it again? Absolutely. I will watch it and Farscape and Stargate SG1 and Firefly and I have Babylon 5 and Star Trek (the original series) on my eventual to get lists... So in that I think this complete series package was worth it. Will I watch this collection again sometime? Yes. Will I watch it every night 10 gazillion times? No. So for me the boxed set was a bargain which I will rotate into and out of my "throw a dvd in because there's nothing on t.v." lineup..

One minor point that struck me when watching this DVD set recently after not having seen the show since it aired way back when.. I suddenly felt old :) The series had a lot of guest stars many of them just starting out in their acting career. There was Jamie Lee Curtis who looked so young in an episode but then I saw her last night in a commercial with gray hair selling something for the 50 something crowd and it hit me.. I will be in that crowd in a decade (well a little less). Gary Coleman appears in 2 episodes of season one and he looks all of like 8 years old... sadly he passed away just this last year. When I looked closely at these episodes it struck me how many folks that guest starred in them have recently passed away and how I am seeing others now being cast as grand ma's and grand dad's on lifetime channel movies and elsewhere. Ouch that hurt.

The set is what it is and that is a set of DVD's involving a show that was made to entertain and be fun. It wasn't made to educate or try to influence folks opinions on anything nor make some sort of social statement. If you want something fun to watch and you raid your dvd collection regularly because there is nothing on t.v. you like then this set is probably for you.