The only reason I signed up for Amazon.com was to write a truthfull review.  I would really give this movie a negative star rating or even a zero, but I cannot.  Let me start off by saying that back in 2001, I saw The Fast and the Furious and thought it was the coolest movie in the world.  I have since then matured and realized what a crappy movie it was and how much they don't have a clue about what they're talking about.  Like how you can pop the hood and see a NOS fogger system AND, direct port nitrous injection AND, a stand alone fuel management system(and that's only in one scene).  But away from the past, this movie is ten times worse.  For starters, they turned it into a movie geared at only one audience, black people and people that like to copy them.  With slang, rap music, hydralics and numerous other items from the "Hip Hop" community, this movie tries to blend show and go, but that is not really possible.  Anyone that knows anything about cars knows that air bags, neon lights, big spoilers, chrome rims or just plain any rims over 17 inches, TV's, $10,000 stereos, and playstation 2's will not help you out in the speed factor of your automobile.  It just saddens my heart to see what started off as a great phenomonon with the first movie, into neon lights and hip hop music.  This is absolutly the dumbest movie about cars I have ever seen.  The kids that like this movie think that cars that look cool and run 17 second quarter mile times are fast.  They like to go crusing, and race other cars like their's and think when they win against a civic with exhaust their car is the fastest on the block.  I also read a big feature article in Super Street, where they got to test the cars from the movie, and the cars times were SLOWER than stock.  All the did for the movie was weigh them down with chrome rims and computer s***.  I also found out they disengaged the all-wheel drive on the skyline, just so it could drift around corners to look cool.  This movie really gives true car enthusiasts a bad BAD name.  THIS MOVIE SUCKS.  F*** YOU 2 FAST 2 FURIOUS.