
Before commenting on the contents of this tape it might be worth pointing out why the TV series is 17 episodes long (a very NON-standard number of episodes).

The fact is that McGoohan only made his original pitch to ITC boss Sir Lew Grade for a 7 episode series.  Sir Lew, with an eye on foreign markets, especially the USA, wanted a 26 episode series.  McGoohan tried to meet the 26 episode target, but production and financial over-runs brought the whole endeavour to a halt at 17.

This does NOT, by the way, mean that the story is incomplete.  We are actually told, in EVERY episode, who No. 1 is, and for those who understood this barely veiled message, the story line of episode 17 made a perfect, and perfectly sensible finale.

So, back to this particular three episode tape.

Being the first three episodes (though the series was screened in a slightly different order in the USA) you know you're getting three slices of McGoohan's original vision - with the emphasis on "original".

In brief, the first episode shows how "the man with no name" (a theme also common to Sergio Leone's "Dollar" trilogy - first released over the three years immediately prior to the first UK airing of "The Prisoner") - in this case appears to resign from some kind of mammoth organisation (judging by their filing system), in a very heated manner.

On returning home, the man with no name is gassed, in his own flat, and wakes up in a strange village (actually filmed in the now-famed Portmerion in north west Wales) where everyone is referred to by a number rather than a name.  The Prisoner is No. 6, the erstwhile head of the community is No. 2.  Only the strange, balloon-like guardians have a name: "Rover".

From this point on, until the final episode, the main focus of each episode *appears* to be the desire of No. 2 (and his/her master or masters) to know why No. 6 resigned.  With No. 6 being equally determined NOT to give any explanations.

In reality, however, it is the background to this battle of wills which carries the true message of the series.  So to explain anything more of any of the plotlines would merely intrude on your enjoyment.

As a matter of interest, note that is NEVER explicitly stated that McGoohan's character was a spy/secret agent before his resignation, only that he holds information in his head that could be of value (To whom? Again we are never told).  Thus the question of whether The Prisoner = John Drake (Danger Man (UK) Secret Agent (USA)) truly is irrelevant, as McGoohan has always maintained.

Many people have offered their views on what this series is about, so my closing suggestion may seem a little strange, namely: If you *really* want to know what the series "means", DON'T try to figure out what the series "means".

Instead, try to walk in The Prisoner's shoes.  Imagine, as you watch each episode, how YOU might feel, think, and react if this was happening to you.

Do this through the first 16 episodes and I guarantee that episode 17 will make perfect sense to you, too.