I tend to not watch things that I see advertisements for on every channel unless I was already planning to. It's more out of principal. The millionth time I see something advertised, it starts to annoy me. But I was bored one Sunday night and after seeing about five advertisements telling me that The Killing was probably about the greatest show ever, I decided it was worth giving it a shot.

I came to a conclusion: the reason everyone is going on about how awesome this show is, is because it's the best crime drama (a genre I'm usually not a fan of) that I have ever seen.

The story is broken into a few different major stories that intertwine around a central event: the murder of Rosie Larsen.

The most heart wrenching scenes are the ones with Rosie's family on the day her body is discovered, and in the aftermath of her death. The family scenes are painful to watch. The characters of her parents and siblings feel real and sympathetic enough that you will feel for them and their loss from beginning to end. There is no way to watch the Larsen family try to go about and rebuild their lives without the occasional (or constant) tears.

Then there's the campaign in the middle of the murder investigation. Whether or not anyone in the campaign is involved in Rosie's murder is up for debate throughout and the question isn't totally answered by the end of the season.

The officers of the case - Holder and Linden - are some of the most interesting and human detectives on television. One's an ex drug addict who continuously does questionable things for what he seems to believe is for the good of the case, and the other is a woman who wants nothing more than to retire and move with her son and fianc&eacute;.

The story unfolds slowly, dragging the viewer along for the shocking and sometimes painful journey. It's a fascinating story that the viewer (if they're anything like me) will be thinking about long after it's over.

The series finale is one of the greatest I have ever seen. I cannot wait for the second season after seeing it. After watching the season finale, I have even more questions and even more I cannot stop thinking and speculating about.
The Killing is full of suspense and drama and encourages audience speculation and participation. It's a show that keeps the audience on their toes.