For all those who said they could not understand the movie or appreciate the storyline, etc., and thus gave this film a low rating, here is a summary of the narrative so that you may wish to watch the movie again and enjoy it.

NARRATIVE

Pete Dayton a young attractive man works as a mechanic during the day and goes partying at night, and hangs out with Sheila a girl from the nighbourhood. His parents are nice and calm and do not intervene much in his life. One day at work he meets this girl, Alice Wakefield who was in the company of Dick Laurent a customer wanting to repair his car. She caught his eyes ogling her and she comes alone in the evening. Thus started a sexual relationship between her and the mechanic. Now Alice is a porn star in a film business owned by Dick Laurent, and is plotting to leave this business and run away. But before doing that, she wants to steal money from Andy, an associate of Dick. So she found Pete the innocent youngster (19 yrs) who would assist her in her plot. She leaves the backdoor open while she is having sex with Andy to let Pete sneak in and hit Andy. Pete hits Andy and Alice steals the money. But Andy wakes up only to fall on the edge of a coffee table and gets killed. They run away and get married and Alice dies her hair black. But they are pursued by Dick Laurent who fancies Alice and cannot let go. Alice and Pete now married have an average suburban house and change their names to Fred Madison and Renee Madison. A few years later, Dick finds out about them and threatens them, so Alice (now Renee) agrees to renew her relationship with Dick and sleeps with him at Lost Highway Motel. Eventually, she plots with Pete (now Fred) to kill Dick when Dick falls asleep after having sex with her. Pete (Fred) now in his mid-twenties, waits in the dark for his wife to leave the motel and sneaks in and kidnaps Dick and drives him to a desert cabin and kills him. He returns home and even before getting in he informs Alice that Dick is dead.
From then on, Alice (Renee) who always had a penchant for criminal thinking leads a normal life, and Pete (Fred) who was an innocent youngman cannot escape the nightmares of the murders he committed because he loves Alice (Renee). He has frequent nightmares and he suspects that his wife who was a porn star and who had sex with anyone to get what she wanted fast, is infidel to him with anyone anytime. Driven by his deteriorating psychological condition, he murders her one night. The police investigates and arrest him, and he is sentenced to death by electric execution. During the execution, his mind is revealing falshes of his memories about what happened.

THE PLOT
The plot is an artistic representation of the narrative. The film starts at a point where the tension between Pete and Alice is highest, and thirty minutes or so Pete kills Alice and is sentenced to death. He is now waiting execution in a prison cell and when is taken to be electrocuted, all the other events start flashing in his head, starting with his life as a 19 year old working as a mechanic and dating Sheila, and so on. All the other elements that are not directly part of the plot are there to improve the artistic presentation and to add style. For example, the strange man with the weird face is Pete's evil sub-conscious reminding him all the time about the murders he committed. There are moments when David Lynch gives away signales, for example when this strange man tells Pete/Fred that her real name was not Alice, or the photo when Alice and Renee show up only to have only Renee left after Andy is killed. Which means that Alice will now run away and use another name.

Now reviewers can watch the movie and enjoy it as I did. It is a piece of art.