Time Crimes is based on a pretty good idea. Often time travel stories can end up like a pretzel, but this film manages to contain the situation nicely.

However, I cant help myself.. I have a few suggestions. Maybe something the American remake can address.

No. 1
The protagonist makes illogical decisions throughout the film.
-"Take off your pants... This will work cause I am (I mean he is) a pervert".
-Lets go in the bushes and look for a naked chick without anything but binoculaurs.
-OMG Where is he?!?! he just stabbed me a second ago... let me just turn around and look thru my superfantastic b-i-n-o-c-u-laars!!!.
-Lets walk really slow up the xmas lit hill when the bad guy is "!!COMING!!!"
-Yes he's right.. Ill get in the big chamber machine, he wont look for me in there
-Oh crap he just saw me thru the window.. I definitely better hide in the chamber machine now.

No. 2
I know this is pointless in the same vain as... "what happened before the big bang"
but how did he end up in a time machine the FIRST time? What created this event?

No. 3
The female characters are ridiculous.
-the naked chick is just ridiculously nice.
"Oh hello Slipknot stranger with bandage wrapped around head.. are u ok?"
"Lets go in the bushes like u ask mr Slipknot sir"
"Here have a pair of scissors Mr. I dont know who the f%%% you are"
"Oh I just kicked the fat dude in the face...what should I do now.. I have a great a$$... but I dont think Ill be able to outrun him... hmmm I know.. Ill just hide behind the bushes ---- ah he got me"
"I just woke up naked and now there is another fat dude... what should I do..I know Ill help him too... I'm superwoman.. Cmon mr fat dude... lets get you to safety.. Ill make soup... and make out with you... huh in ur dreams pervert"

-Wife
"whats going on .. someone just screamed on the roof - oh thanks honey Ill just park my a$$ on this bench like you tell me to"

I know Im being picky but it gets like that after a while. Its just a series of events which are hard to comprehend. Someone once told me that sometimes the most absurd truth is the real truth ... and maybe in reality we can do absurd things.. like sometimes go out into the bushes to look for a naked chick... but in cinema, when we are trying really hard to believe in the fiction... too many absurd situations (no matter how small) just become distracting.

No... (was it 4)
As with other time beinding movies... one of the biggest traps is to fall into a repetitive environment. Im not saying Time Crimes gets bad like Bill Murray's masterpiece "GroundHog day"... but there is a point in the movie where one knows what the premise of the plot is.. and where its going... because its already happened. It manages to twist and turn a fair bit which I think saves it from narrowly missing that catastrophe but there is still that sense. You get this exposition about what is happening and you then understand why things happened and then you spend the next 15 minutes seeing what you already realised happened... happen...

Ok I give up
Its worth watching folks.