The style and structure of this documentary is nearly identical to that used by Burns's brother Ken in his trilogy of breathtaking American documentaries, "The Civil War," "Baseball" and "Jazz." This is an excellent format: Clean, evenhanded, evocative, democratic yet firmly rooted in an ideological framework.
But sometimes Ric, in "New York," lets that style, and the intellectual brand of rah-rah American centrism that is behind all of these documentaries, take precedence over its historical value. One will learn everything about New York's development as a colony, its geographical and economic importance, the European immigration that swelled its population, and its relationship to the rest of the United States. The work gives especial focus to the strength of the city as a modern Constantinople, a meeting place of all the world's cultures and traditions that nevertheless manages to exist in relative peace. Amid all of this, however, several crucial historical events and institutions, especially those from New York's more recent history, are omitted. The Five Points, for example, is mentioned but never defined or located.
Also without mention are: The New York Times, the Mafia, the Battery landfill project, the theatre industry, the fledgling movie industry and its later removal to Hollywood, and the subsequent rise of Los Angeles as the only American city seriously to challenge New York's cultural primacy, the Beats, drugs, rap music (which is mentioned, but Burns is apparently afraid of playing us any), the election of Mayor David Dinkins, the gay and lesbian movements in the city, and the rehabilitation of the city under Police Commissioner William Bratton, seeing the most radical drop in the crime rate in the city's history.
In place of these we get more breathless paeans to urban multiculturalism, more tentative hagiographies of New York's most notorious characters, more desperate defenses of New York's apparently fragile position as capital of the world, more handwringing lamentations over the depredations wrought by the automobile and the suburban transformation of American culture, more vilifications of Robert Moses and urban renewal, and yet more breathless paeans to urban multiculturalism.
A balanced and thorough historical document would have been more valuable, both to us and to posterity, than yet another romantic hymn to New York. Still, as romantic hymns go, it's pretty remarkable.