Wow.  All I can say is wow.  I can honeslty say I have never seen a more beautifully portrayed picture in my life.  All elements of this film were fantastic.  The acting was superb, all three actresses deserved acclaim and oscars for their roles, as well as Ed Harris, who I feel is in a dead heat with Chris Cooper from Adaptaion for the Best Supporting Actor nod.  The depth of this film was extraordinary, I feel that a very important characteristic of a movie is that it can make you think and have a great amount of emotion for the caharacters, and this film succeeds amazingly in that category.  Character develpment in this film is wonderful, you feel pain and sorrow for all of the characters, they are all flawed in some way and are tortured by themselves and in the ways that they can't express who they truly are.  It is a very sad look into the human heart, and takes you on an emotional rollercoaster on its way.  The Hours is so beautifully and artistically written and portrayed on film it is unbelievable, to take a story that has no theatrical background and make it into such an extroardinary film is an accomplishment in itself.  It was very imaginative in the way it weaved three storiess, which at the first seem unconnected except for circumstances and emotions, into and explosively shocking ending.  The Hours deserved every critics' acclaim and award it was nominated for, honestly it should have been the Best Picture over the superficial and overrated Chicago.  I feel this film puts an end to the Hollywood idea that there must be significant plot events and tumulteous occurrences of death or whatnot for the film to be viewing worthy.  The Hours shows that the voyage into the human mind and spirit is just as, or in my opinion even more exciting.  I don't think it is nearly appreciated enough at this time but I also feel it will be looked back in years to come as one of the greatestfilms of all time.  A feat in film making and a step in the right direction for a movie world that is reliant on cheap thrills and sex appeal.  Overall, A+ for wonderful film that we are lucky to have blessed upon us, definitely worth the time to watch it, you should be so lucky to have a chance to.  You will be a bit depressed and saddened but that is part of life.  And if you don't like it at first, give it a few days to let it sink in and you'll feel much differently I guarantee it.  I wasn't sure what to think at first myself but your opinion changes believe me.  And if you still don't like it than you are a very shallow person in need of help, enjoy the Charlie's Angels premier.  Best picture of the year without a doubt.