After a fairly lackluster fourth season, the producers of Desperate Housewives knew they needed to do something fairly dramatic to reinvigorate the series. What they did - jumping ahead five years in the ladies' lives - certainly wasn't untried, but it was a big gamble given fans' strong attachment to these characters. In true soap fashion, the twists and turns were dramatic, surprising, and in some cases a bit crazy.

Assuming you're a fan and have kept up on goings-on to this point, a brief summary looks like this:

Desperate Housewives: The Complete Fifth Season finds Lynette (Felicity Huffman) in more banal suburban drama, with a teenage son chasing cougars and a husband who continues to live largely in his own head, ignoring everything around him. Bree (Marcia Cross) has become a minor superstar with her Martha Stewart-esque line of products and recipes, which doesn't go over well with her ex-con husband (Kyle MacLachlan), who takes it as an attack on his machismo. How does he vent those frustrations? He turns to kleptomania, of course.

Meanwhile, Mike (James Denton) and Susan (Teri Hatcher) are suffering a failing marriage as a result of a car crash; an unfortunately all-too-easy and overused dramatic device borrowed from daytime dramas. The only good thing about the split are the objects of their affections: Katherine Mayfair (Dana Delaney) and Jackson Braddock (Gale Harold); unfortunately, respectively.

The clear winner of the "Oh my God, no they didn't!" award for appalling changes clearly goes to Gabby (Eva Longoria-Parker), who's not only gained "a few pounds," but now runs around in sweats with her fat daughters and struggles to take care of her poor blind husband (Ricardo Chavira).  Her biggest problems however, involve the struggle of knowing her daughter will never be a beauty queen... and keeping her away from ice cream, cake and French fries.

The storyline that ties the ladies together revolves around Edie's (Nicolette Sheridan) husband, Dave Williams (Neal McDonough). Although he's got most of the neighborhood fooled, Karen (Kathryn Joosten) and her sister (Lily Tomlin) know something's going on. (They may not know of his affliction for murder, but the fact that he talks to himself prompts them to begin snooping.) But what's his secret? Sadly - at least for many gay viewers - this season finds less witty social criticism and charm, and more simple melodrama.

Whether or not the "surprise flash-forward" injected new life into the series is up to you; reviews have been mixed. Having the complete series on DVD however - and being able to watch the entire season in fewer sittings - does make it easier to swallow such a dramatic leap.

&lt;slug>Special Features&lt;/slug>

The "extras" for Desperate Housewives: Season 5 are fairly standard, but also pretty juicy. The first and 13th episodes of the season feature Commentary Tracks, largely focused on the decision and rationale behind the flash forward plot device. The track on the 100th episode - featuring creator Marc Cherry and actress Brenda Strong - also provides a hint of clarity behind a couple of the more obtuse storylines, tying in real life events (namely Mr. Cherry's loss of a "close friend") to plot points in the series.

Perhaps the most prominent extra is a featurette on the 100th episode - Desperate Housewives: Evolution of a modern classic - which features interviews with the actors, producers, and others involved in the series. This behind-the-scenes look at the production gives a bit of a glimpse into what goes into making a series, the relationships forged, and some of the on-set craziness. It also shows an early table read, which is fun, and something fans will definitely enjoy.

Cherry Picked is a brief commentary from the series creator, in which he talks about the moments of the show that mean the most to him. Additional features - which shouldn't be missed - include the standard Bloopers and Deleted Scenes.