Yes it is propaganda....I see it as a brilliant example of creating discord and division as a good thing. We don't see what happens after. Like if you saw Kinsey he goes looking for butterflies in the forest at the end. In reality he went off to "investigate" sado masochistic sex...then to an unglorious demise.Salt Of The Earth ( a horrible contradiction) offers with the promise of equality driven by the typical feeling and emotion driven responses which in reality the antithesis never delivers as advertised(the norm with the communism hoax)  Most women were able to raise thier own children at home ,have farm life where "economic forces "wouldnt cause them to have 3 part time jobs with no benefits,and dictatorial (to be equal and even steven)idiotic policies of some nut who owns so many corporations he has no idea who the woman is and crushes her daily like an ant. Yay for women ! Forget just one "opressor" who was her husband. King of the Castle was made a joke by Gleason...Lucille Ball never obeyed her husband. But the fact is many women were queens of the castle. Women weren't soldiers. They and children were the spoils of war. The fair things. And we see them quitting thier careers daily to raise children contrary the utopian liberation from thier intended purposes. They are hard wired to do this. (most are anyway) The King and Queen of the castle was a layer of strength and autonomy the communists were terrified of. A nation of soverigns.  I guess they are much better off now being un-oppressed by multinational megalomaniacs corporate middle management weenies whims? The husband and wife both HAVE to work now and can barely make it. But public private partnerships will raise junior for you these days or an afterschool programmer at the afterschool program. Oh yes. Much better comrade. The kids now get after school mentors and the molesters have a data base you can look up to see how close they are to junior's school which is locked down like an armed camp.  So you have peace of mind while you are working at MalWart (eg) . That is if you even have a husband.(Or maybe he's had a sex change like Klinger)&lt;~ not thats theres anything wrong with that!! Yep...these guys like Ring Lardner were  wonderful at changing peoples thinking . I urge anyone else who loves this movie to see Ring Lardners Coup' De Tat ~~>M*A*S*H  The movie about lazy drunk American soldiers,who wince and abhor the carnage inflicted on the soldiers by the communists.  In the TV show they give aid and comfort to the enemy whenever possible.It was an  particularly effective movie capitalizing on the first War the US was to supposedly lose after the big so called World War 2 victory. So make a movie about it Ring ! About soldiers (but doctors) synthesis requires a emotional trigger to stir you from your foundational beliefs invoked by feeling or opinions and a freezing of the emotional state just where you want your audience torn somewhere inbetween. They are soldiers but they save lives....Hmmm rock and a hard place.Then get to work with  incompetent US Commanding Officers drinking sex...etc Nothing demoralizing about that !  The US now has the highest morals of any nation in the world. Ask anyone.  Lardner illustrates US command is totally out of touch with the heroes who would be better spent saving lives in a nice community center perhaps at home. These freaks and weidohs who just HATED fighting "commies" ! No they are not freaks today. But we considered that immoral behavior back when we were immoral. Yep..shame on us for being mean to the poor hollywood movie makers.=_-( They were showing us the better world of today yesterday,and we didn't appreciate it.How many of us were walking around humming Suicide Is Painless ? Thats a nice thought to have on your mind now isn't it? Thanks Ring Lardner ! Oh but we can laugh at ourselves as we are sooooo sophisticated. Unless we are on "meds" and thats normal now. Meds for lil' Johnny(odds are he has some "disorder")too.  It never got to us! Everything is swell. And we're all better off!  Oh yes...Those loveable Hollywood Ten ...they are masters at thier craft.  HOW COULD WE HAVE BEEN SO CLOSE MINDED?  Folks.... They weren't called the Hollywood Ten....They were called the UNFRIENDLY Hollywood Ten. Connect the dots.  Thesis...Antithesis...Synthesis