I'm going to generally criticize every bits of the movie.

Introduction: I loved the animation and lightening effects, there was no defects there. However, once they introduced "Zeus" and "Poseidon"... I didn't want to watch the rest of the movie. Especially when they show the Empire State building. First of all, the movie was supposed to start off from Percy's point of view and reveal later when he goes to Camp Half Blood about the war that was going to erupt.

Zeus: FAILURE! He didn't hold any real authority in his appearance. He's also not supposed to be a chunky overweight middle aged man. He's supposed to have had a storm cloud beard and hair. His outfit is supposed to be in professional stuck-up pin stripped suits.

Poseidon: FAILURE! He was supposed to have BLACK HAIR like Percy. He was also supposed to have a more strong appearance. I believe the actor who played him really killed his character. He was also supposed to have sun wrinkles around his eyes that show he smiles alot...

Both Percy and his father are supposed to have the same black hair and green eyes. I think the actor who played Percy has blue eyes? Which on a technical level messes up the physical details of the characters.

Percy Jackson: I believe that they picked the perfect boy actor for Percy. Although it seemed that he was "stiff" in many emotional aspects of his character. He didn't present any "fun loving" get-at-it attitude like Percy in the books. It was like he was detached the entire time.

Grover: 100% FAILURE! The major issues was with his personality and is "gun-how" attitude. In Book 1, Chapter 1, page [3]: --"Grover was an easy target. He was scrawny. He cried when he got frustrated. He must've been held back several grades, because he was the only sixth grader with acne and a start of a wispy beard on his chin." In the movie, his character is headstrong and wants to GOGOGOGOGOGO. It completely destroys Grover's character development in the book series. :/

Mr. Brunner: SUCCESS! He had the tweed jacket, the wheelchair, the hair, the beard and the right welcoming warm face. They picked the perfect middle aged male actor to play as Mr. Brunner (Chiron in disguise). I believe he was the only one that actually got to stay true to his character. (Probably because he was more years of experience in acting, anyway)

School field trip: 40% Success. 60% Failure. The museum was a success, its interior, everything. However, the field trip did not start right off there. They were supposed to be driving in a school buss where Nancy Bobofit (who had been slashed from the movie), was picking on Grover. Percy in turn, tries to defend his best friend Grover from being hit with wads of sandwich that stuck in his curly brown hair. It really hurts Percy's character for not adding this scene in because before he explains all the strange occurrences that happened in his life that labeled him a "failure student" and a "troubled kid."

Mrs. Dodds: Too quick to reveal her true form as a "Fury." She was supposed to be wearing a leather jacket. Her physical appearance was alright but I didn't get the feeling of "Georgian" as the book describes her to be. Slashing her background and involvement with Percy also kind of hurt in certain areas.

Getting caught by Mrs. Dodds: 100% FAILURE! There were no "ear buds" or apple ipod being played in the book. Percy gets called out by Mr. Brunner when Nancy Bobofit couldn't shut up about a naked guy on a stele, where he turned around and said "Will you shut up?" in a loud voice. That's when Mr. Brunner asks him if he had anything to say about the exhibit and about why Kronos ate his children. Mrs. Dodds did not call out Percy then! After they had left the museum to get lunch and when Nancy picks on Grover got on Percy's last straw and sent her flying into a water fountain is when she called it out. The disappearing act up the stairs was botched by her slight disappearing act into the room (which is right for the most part), where he's supposed to kill her.

Fury (Mrs. Dodds): I think for the most part, her demon appearance was an success? BUT! She was not supposed to GET AWAY. Percy ends up slashing her with riptide and disintegrates into a spin-wheel of dust. Having Grover there alongside Mr. Brunner destroyed this scene. Grover never goes inside with the latin teacher, he remains outside where Nancy Bobofit gloats about a "Mrs. Kurr" (a different teacher that the "Mist" created) giving him a butt whooping, so-to-speak.

Going Home: 100% FAILURE! They totally cut off the biggest part of the book where Grover and Mr. Brunner talk behind Percy's back about the summer solstice deadline. Especially when they ride on the travel bus on the way home for summer break. The most important part is when the bus breaks down in front of the three fates sitting at a (gas station? fruit stand?) and cuts the life cord of someone. I believe by leaving this out, really throws off the plot to the whole series about whose destined to die. . _ .

Sally Jackson: SUCCESS! They found the perfect actress to play Percy's mother. They got her physical appearance down to a "T." However, she could've been more headstrong in certain areas. Specially, where she's supposed to gather her wits like she does in the book and protect her loved ones.

Gabe (Not so smelly?): His actor ALMOST got it right. He was supposed to be more "walrus" shaped. Cutting his poker game which was supposed to happen when Percy walks in after ditching Grover at a public restroom area destroys his character personality. Beer bottles, cigars and smoke was supposed to be evident. Also, the part where Gabe sniffs out the money left over in Percy's pocket and threatens him to hand it over. Slashing the mess and disgust that Gabe presents to Percy upon returning home also affects this scene. How are you supposed to get the interpretation of "Smelly," when you cut out major parts of character developments?

The apartment scene overall: Percy's mother's not supposed to be in the apartment when he first comes home. Gabe is the only one he meets with his poker buddies. Then, he was supposed to enter his trashed bedroom that was filled with muddy boots, empty beer bottles and whatever else was mentioned in the book that Gabe thought of stuffing in there to spite Percy. Grover is also not supposed to be there, popping in on the apartment. Percy doesn't run into Grover until the vacation down on the beach where Percy and his mother borrow Gabe's car with a lot of fuss. And THAT'S WHEN the dream about an Eagle and Horse were fighting each other (Zeus and Poseidon).

Racing to Camp half blood: When Percy gets agitated and concerned asking Grover about what he was, Grover was supposed to "Blaah-ha-ha!" And the interaction was completely wrong. Percy asked (In Chapter 4, page [44]; at the bottom of the page)--"Um... what are you, exactly?" Grover said: "It doesn't matter right now." Then Percy replied: "It doesn't matter? From the waist down, my best friend is a donkey--", which is were Grover let out a sharp, throaty "Blaa-ha-ha!" and cried "Goat!" And Percy goes: "What?" And Grover replies: "I'm a Goat from the waist down." and Percy answers: "You just said it didn't matter."---Cutting this whole scene really destroyed it. That and Grover was NOT awake or physically conscious when running to C.H.B.. Grover was knocked out because of the Minotaur flipped Gabes car into a ditch. Percy and his mother were the ones dragging his goaty butt towards camp.

Fighting the Minotaur: 100% FAILURE! Percy doesn't have the sword with him! He gave it back to Chiron at the school trip. Grover is not supposed to be there egging him on to defeat the thing either. GROVER IS SUPPOSED TO BE KNOCKED OUT, like he always does. There was also no door-way or arch-way leading into Camp Half Blood.

Camp Half Blood: 100% FAILURE! First of all, they slashed Thalia's tree from the WHOLE story. That destroys her character appearance, history and development. Second of all, I'll just say that the Cabins were wrong. It looked like it all came out of Per 1. It was RIDICULOUS! - . - They also disregarded the campfire and the sacrificial food scraps to the gods. :/ Argus the 100 eye'd security guard was also cut out, as well as Dionysus. And where was Clarisse? She's supposed to be the key player in picking on Percy and revealing he is the son of Poseidon during the capture the flag night. Which, of course, was also slashed horribly. Annabeth and Percy were supposed to be on the same side during capture the flag. Not just Luke and Percy! The whole water-healing scene was good but everything else was choppy. Third of all, there are no Oracles?! The corpse hippie has also been slashed--so, the quest isn't given right. Nor does anyone hear of any prophecies... What was the whole point of making a movie if you aren't going to keep true to the key parts of the series?

Annabeth: FAILURE! Supposed to be blonde haired, gray-eyed and have a California appearance.

Luke: 80% FAILURE! 20% SUCCESS is for keeping true to his sandy blonde hair (I can't remember if his eyes were right--but they're supposed to be blue). They revealed that Luke was playing video games. I mean, c'mon. The "techno" stuff wasn't in any of the series besides cellphones and even then, they only thing really used was laptops because it sent up Monster flares telling them where they were. Luke was also supposed to have a long white dragon scar on one of his eyes from going on that quest from his father Hermes to get he "forbidden fruit" and got injured from Landon.

Chiron (Mr. Brunner): 50% FAILURE! In centaur form, Chiron is supposed to be a WHITE STALLION--NOT BROWN!
 Although his character is played beautifully, his outer appearance really slashed it.

The Quest: 100% FAILURE! The quest to the underworld and meeting the major monster characters were completely wrong. There was nothing about "marble this" "marble that". Percy only receives three white milky marbles from his father back in Santa Monica Bay from a water lady. Medusa was also supposed to be a middle eastern woman and never reveals who she is. There's also NO humans around when Percy, Annabeth and Grover end up there during their quest. It made me sad they cut out the scene where Percy had to say hello to the Pink Poodle. :( Hades appearance was ALSO HORRIBLY WRONG! He looked like Jaguar... And his wife was not supposed to be there either. Nor was Percy traveling with a metal shield given to him from Luke. The only thing Luke gave Percy as he was going on his quest was those winged shoes, which was also misused. The winged shoes brought Percy in Zeus's domain and if he ever dared to fly with them, he'd be shot down like a pigeon. He gave the shoes to Grover. ARES was supposed to play the biggest key part in the quest since he was the God who was "turned" being brain washed from Kronos. The lightening bolt is supposed to appear in the blue backpack Ares gives to Percy after they fetch his war shield back to him from the abandoned Water-land exhibit. (And so on)

I'll cut it short here. Basically, the producer slashed the entire series. It wasn't really worth it to buy the movie. Previously there was a movie trailer where they showed a girl named Clarisse wearing camouflage who had been doused in toilet water because of Percy. I don't know why they scrapped it? And I'm not sure if anyone else saw it but I did, on YOUTUBE.

The major key players that had been taken out of the movie really affected the development. The look and feel of Mount Olympus was cheap and completely ruined what I had envisioned from Rick Riordan... I believe they would have done a better job if they weren't so "gun-how" to earn more money. :/ If they want to continue this movie series, they need to RE-START from scratch and go by the book. Otherwise... I will only stick to the books and that's about it.