Despite all you can think about  the strange cover, in which there are many people disguised with a mask of John Malkovich, you should take a look before you put it where it belongs.
This movie goes by small dark places. It has a promising beginning: John Cusack starring in as a puppeteer with little money looking for a job. He has no children and has lost all the interest in his wife (Cameron Diaz). He starts working in the "seventh and a half" floor of an enterprise. This is placed between the seventh and the eighth floor and it's only 1,5 metres high, so he has to pull down the head to walk in all the time. One day he meets a beautiful woman at work (Catherine Keener) and he tries to attract her attention, but she ignores him. The things start to change when he discovers a secret door where he finds the power of  being able to see with John Malkovich`s eyes. However, this ability lasts only fifteen minutes and then, John Cusack falls in the outskirts of the city. He immediately tells all the story to that woman. At first, she doesn't care much, but she calls him on the phone later. Her idea is to write an advertisement in the newspaper and start a business: let people being Malkovich for a while after earning a lot of money. Everything is right then, but  it happens that Cusack's wife uses it when the other woman is meeting John Malkovich. They have a relationship, and it results that she is not making love to him, but to her, in fact. Malkovich realizes that he's not able to control his body.
The script couldn't be better, I mean, how can you imagine someone living in John Malkovich's brain? How can you imagine the funny idea of working in a "seventh and a half flat" and such a stupid story of how it became like that?
Another good thing in the movie are the actors. John Cusack's performance and Catherine Keener's are excellent; Cameron Diaz's character is well-depicted, although it's a bit strange to watch her acting in a movie like this, and John Malkovich doesn't really act, because the movie deals about this person, but he shows himself as an interesting and mysterious man, and I think that is the reason of why so many people want to be him. I found fantastic the scene in which he enters the secret door, and what surprise when he discovers a world dwelt by hundreds of copies of himself!
This is a movie you can't stop watching, and it's worth doing it several more times. I wait impatiently the next Spike Jonze's challenge.