Though I've never read the two books upon which this film was based, I came to it with a fairly comprehensive knowledge and understanding of the subject matter. Those who are reading this already know what Downfall is about, so I won't rehash it here. What the film does is deepen our understanding of the human side of those most often parodied as monochromatic psychopaths. People are people, and as Hitler's former secretary Traudl Junge commented in the interviews that bookend the film, one can sometimes be led down a path with an end unimagineable when the journey began.

The whole gamut of human emotion and behavior is on display here as the Nazi leadership tries to cope with the realization that the end of their dream of a thousand year Reich is at hand. For every man and woman who bravely, resignedly, or stoically faces the end, there is a coward or a self-server who seeks to save only his own skin.

We see Hitler poring over maps, concocting strategies for armies that exist in name only. We see him rage at his generals, we see his tender relations with his closest associates, and we see him a tear rolling down his cheek when he comes to know that even Albert Speer, one of his closest advisers, had disobeyed his orders to institute a scorched earth policy as his armies are in retreat. We see him rationalize the destruction of German cities with the comment that it is easier to clear away debris than to tear down existing structures after the war is won in order to build a Germany filled with National Socialist architecture. The portrayal of Hitler by Bruno Ganz is a rare masterpiece in that he brings home the essential humanity of a man concealed beneath a crushing burden of hatred. Many criticize the suicides of Hitler and others when failure was certain as the coward's way out, but suicide as redemption for failure was engrained in German/Austrian military culture long before Hitler came on the scene. Besides, Hitler knew what was likely in store should the Russians capture him and so as well did Eva Braun.

Other standout performances include the fetching Alexandra Maria Lara as the ingenue Traudl Junge (Humps), a Munich native who becomes Hitler's secretary. She often appears surprised and disbelieving at some of what she sees and hears, but remains a loyal employee to the end. There is a point when she is taking the dictation of Hitler's final Political Testament that the look on her face as she listens to Hitler says she wishes that he would quit ranting about the Jews. Lara's Junge actually comes off as a very normal kind, concerned, and loving woman.

Ulrich Matthes is chilling as the fanatic-to-the-end Joseph Goebbels as is Corinna Harfouch portraying his wife Magda. Goebbels seems to delight in the destruction of his country and when questioned about sending poorly-armed and unarmed elderly men and boys out to face the Russians, he coldly denies having any sympathy for them and says that the German people deserve their fate for giving them (the Nazis) a mandate. Matthes' portrayal of Goebbels seems to confirm author David Irving's assertion that Goebbels was the mastermind behind much of what was evil about the Nazi regime. Probably the only people that Goebbels loved besides Hitler are his ill-fated children and his wife Magda.

Harfouch's stone-faced Magda, who bears an uncanny physical resemblance to Hillary Clinton, is magnificent as a woman who after lengthy agonizing and rationalizing, very stoically did what she considered to be her duty in murdering her sleeping children in order to save them from the fate they most likely would have faced under the Russians and from life in a world without her beloved National Socialism. The scene is moving and painful. Make no mistake, she was not pleased with herself for what she did, nor was she pleased with her husband for making no effort to dissuade her. The Goebbels children are among the few besides civilian victims for which the viewer might feel sorry. Shortly after, Magda faced her own end with the same stony resignation as Goebbels kills her and then himself while the Russians close in.

Christian Berkel as SS Doctor Schenck stands out as a man whose concern for the civilian population, his tireless efforts to get food, medicine and other medical supplies for the helpless, and his heroic efforts at stopping roving death squads from murdering innocent civilians accused of desertion make him one of the few sympathetic adult characters in the movie.

I could go on, but you get the idea about what a brutally gripping film this is. Along with the main action, there are the sideshows: fanatical children ready to fight to the last "man", bewildered masses of displaced civilians, die-hard SS men threatening and in some case shooting any comrades who call for negotiated surrender, the never-ending tension in the fuehrer's bunker while the endgame plays itself out, the petty disobediences of party functionaries as awareness that the end is nigh sets in. One of the most striking scenes in the bunker is that of a drunken Eva Braun insisting that a bunker party continue after a close call with Russian artillery. She wants music, and when asked what kind, she calls  for forbidden "degenerate" swing music to be played while she clambers up on a table and dances with abandon.

Most viewers will want to watch Downfall several times to catch all the detail. There is so much to digest that several viewings are necessary for it all to sink in. The filmmakers worked hard to make the film as authentic as possible, right down to the uniforms. I have waited a long time for this to come out on DVD ever since a friend told me about seeing it in a Las Vegas art movie house. It was well worth the wait to me as I consider it to be one of the best films I've seen in years. If you have any love of history you should enjoy this film as well. Five stars are too few.