You will walk into this movie having heard nothing but great reviews for it and great word of mouth. You will definitley leave the theater after this 2 hour + film very satisfied, with a smile on your face to boot. That is how incredibly enjoyable and fun this movie is. Right from the cool opening credits down to the last minute, it is nothing but a fun, entertaining ride for the viewing audience. Everybody knows that this is a true story based on the life experience of a real man, Frank William Abagnale, Jr. I haven't read the book, so I can't quite comment on how truthful it is, or what it leaves out. What a life. He was a 16 year old kid who was dealt with a upsetting blow in his family life, and it sent him on the run. If you haven't read the book, I won't say what causes this. Frank now finds himself on his own, with nowhere to go, and no one to do it with. Thus begins the cons. Frank becomes one of the best con men ever. He went on to impersonate an airline pilot(as Frank Taylor), and then a doctor(under the name Frank Connors), and then onto being a lawyer. He even took the bar exam and passed. In a few funny scenes, Frank is seeing watching tapes of "Perry Mason", "Dr. Kildare", and "Dr. No", all after taking on these new identities, to get a hang of just what exactly he is doing. All of this before he turned 19 years old. Hot on his trail is FBI agent Carl Hanratty, played by Tom Hanks. The chase scenes between the two are extremely fun. How he slips away, which sets the cat and mouse game back in action, is great. Once caught, Frank is asked to work with the FBI helping out check fraud, under the supervision of Hanratty of course. This is unlike any Spielberg film I've seen. Different. All Frank wanted was a family. He loved his mother, but it seemed he had a closer, more loving bond with his father, Frank William Abagnale, Sr., who is played by the always fantastic Christopher Walken. The scenes they have together are all wonderful. Some of the best moments in the film. Frank wanted his parents. That's all. Once you get get past the fact of all the incredible things he has done, impersonated, and gotten away with, you start to remember that he is just a 16 year old kid, scared to death, and wanting a home, with a mother and father, to go too. This is what also makes his relationship with Hanratty so interesting too. He is chasing him. He's around. When he is caught and in Carl's care, it is apparent that Carl has been somewhat of a father figure to him. These two relationships with Frank and his father and Frank with Carl are very interesting to watch. The identities and all that are great fun, but it's these storylines that are fascinating to watch. The actors here are all great. Leonardo DiCaprio has proved that he is a great actor, and he is far more than just the king of world idol from "Titanic". For all the fronts he puts up, you see down deep that he is a scared young kid. He did a wonderful job. Tom Hanks shines too. But then again, when doesn't he?. Hanratty is a real man of course, and Tom makes it seem so on the screen. A harried man just trying to do his job. Walken is great as I've already said earlier. Martin Sheen also appears in a small role, as does James Brolin, and an uncredited Jennifer Garner from "Alias". John William's score is zippy and whimsical and it takes you right into the time. A nice piece of work. The film also looks amazing. They got great colors and the look and feel of the 60's down pat. It is a fantastic looking film. While it may appear to be light and shallow(Amazon's wrong)at first, you got to look beyond that and see what's really going on. This is something Spielberg has always been a master at. This is, pure and simple, one of the most entertaining and enjoyable films of the year. Thanks to all involved for giving it to us.