Appleseed E.M. -
This movie's cell-shaded style provides tons of eye candy for Appleseed fans.  The CGI effects are excellent except when it comes to the animation of body movement and character interaction in non-action scenes.  I'm not sure if it's the affects of the CGI cell-shading or if it's by design (cuz it seems rather glaring to me), but the characters seem to move like plastic dolls.  There are scenes in which human flesh is depicted to come in contact with metallic cyborgs (such as the scenes between Deunan and Briareros), but because of the clunky animation of the bodies and the seemingly unresponsive physical contact between characters, I miss out on the emotional conflict of what it must be like to be in love with a machine. The action gun-fight sequences are outrageous, but that is to be expected with John Woo at the helm of production.  Personally, I don't mind the over-the-top flipping, looping, twisting, whirling gun fights.  Those scenes are fun to watch, for me.  Buildings, scenery, character models, and vehicle CGI are top-notch.  Overall, most people would be the animation style of Appleseed E.M.

Now what I don't like,(perhaps this is due to the nature of Animes in general) is how little things just don't make any sense.  For instance, in the first action scene, Deunan (the main female protagonist) launches a flash bomb into small group of terrorist before the order to attack was given.  I understand a part of that scene was to illustrate she's an independent and strong woman not privy to the command of others at times...but the flash bomb really didn't provide any additional advantage to the ESWAT attack. Did I miss something?  Why did she throw that flash grenade and jeopardize the entire mission?  Then, after the scene in which Briareros grabs Deunan and jumps out of the chapel window, one of the ESWAT member holds her back from running to his body. Why couldn't she run to his body? Perhaps I'm too nit-picky, but for anyone who is like me, this ruins a movie.  I would have given the movie at least a 4 were it not for those bits of the storyline which left a bad taste for me.