VCI hits all the high notes with this, the first volume (first 16 episodes) of the wonderful police dramedy Burke's Law!

The series is based on an episode of The Dick Powell Theater entitled "Who Killed Julie Greer?" (BTW, VCI, wouldn't this have made a GREAT DVD extra?), in which Powell himself played millionaire police Captain Burke and Dean Jones played his eager assistant, Tim Tilson. The intent may have been for Powell to star in any series spun off from this, but Powell's tragic death from cancer in early 1963 killed any hopes of that, so the production company, Four Star Television, screened a number of Dick Powell Theater episodes to find a suitable replacement, settling on the urbane Gene Barry, who played a character not unlike Burke, albeit in a Wild West setting, when he played Bat Masterson a few years prior. Jones didn't land the role of Tilson for the series--that went to rising star Gary Conway--but he did guest-star in an episode or two. For the series, three characters were added: crusty Sergeant Les Hart (Regis Toomey), wisecracking chauffeur Henry (Leon Lontoc) and sexy policewoman Sgt. Ames (Eileen O'Neill).

Viewed in current times, these 16 episodes are a hoot, a virtual snapshot of early '60's L.A., with Burke investigating an array of quirky murder cases: a big-game hunter shot to death with an elephant gun and mounted on a wall, a model found shot to death in a pile of tires (but wait...she wasn't shot, she was DROWNED!), a sorceress dying a gruesome death from thrown acid...those are just some of the entertaining tales found here.

Naturally, the producers, as well-connected as they were, found a virtual 'who's who' of Hollywood folk for Barry to play off of. By one count, a whopping total of 63 stars appear in the first eight episodes alone! Those stars range from Annette Funicello to Jane Darwell, from Sir Cedric Hardwicke to Carl Reiner...a host of big names give these episodes a big bang for the buck! And it's nice to see that some folks have enough of a sense of humor to allow their images to be skewered: one episode features perennial tough-guy Broderick Crawford as a wrestling star who's getting a manicure and pedicure while being questioned by Burke's men! (Crawford obviously enjoyed the lampooning, as he would appear a few more times in similar situations).

Some of the better episodes here include "Who Killed Alex Debbs?", centering on the murder of a Hugh Hefner-styled girlie mag publisher (Hefner himself would appear in a second-season episode), with a high-energy Sammy Davis Jr. tapdancing on Burke's desk and telling corny jokes and a catfight between model Suzy Parker and British bombshell Diana Dors; "Who Killed Beau Sparrow?", in which Burke is a witness to a murder at a high-society party...but he can't seem to figure out just what killed the victim; "Who Killed Purity Mather?", in which a sorceress who told Burke that she was in danger is done in with acid to the face; and "Who Killed Eleanora Davis?", about a model/photographer who's body is found in a phony electric chair on a Wild West museum (Barry has a great moment in this episode when he does a doubletake upon reading a tombstone reading 'He called Bat Masterson a liar'!).

Extras include previews for the next week's episodes (with Barry doing narration) and some vintage commercials. There's also an informative booklet with an interview with Gary Conway in which he reminisces about the series). Highly recommended!