Wow! How we LOVE this film to pieces, and I scratch my head at those who don't get it. I never saw this lovely gem back in the `80s, "But I was just a kid..." My dad took me to see "Roger Rabbit," and that was my main interest. I actually do remember seeing a theatrical TV spot for "Midnight" at the time. "These guys have 5 days to get from New York to Los Angeles..." For years; I pondered what film that commercial was for. I'd skipped many syndicated viewings of "Midnight" over time (probably best I missed the edited `cut' anyway), until a couple years ago. My sister & mother had tuned-in on of the 100+ movie channels, and I sat in for the latter half. Both the "In the next life" & "The desert run chase" scenes were what clinched it for me. I also scratch my head as to `how?' this film escaped me for 20 years.

As of this date; I am a total devotee to "Midnight." I recently won a vintage `Advance' poster off E-Bay, which was put out right before the movie was released. I've nicknamed it "The White Poster." It's 27X40, and has this same pose (from an actual still) of De Niro & Grodin fleeing. The day-by-day taglines are listed above the picture. Sorry; this poster seems to be one-of-a-kind. Good news is that the Nostalgia Factory has "Midnight" press kits/stills available, for those of you hunting merchandise. I bought the soundtrack album from an Amazon seller as well. If you Google "Erasing Clouds - Midnight Run," you'll find a nice little article about the film too.

I don't own the HD version, but my thanks to those of you who've written reviews. Hopefully; Universal will put out a Blu-ray copy in the future? Like most of you; I hold great hope for a future commentary track + those deleted scenes we all know exist. I'd love to hear Martin Brest's own story about his "baby." For those of you who see the "Rain Man (Special Edition)," check out the commentary tracks by both Barry Morrow & Ron Bass. They will give you some insight into Brest's involvement in both "Rain Man" and "Midnight."

"The tough bounty hunter & the sensitive criminal" are definitely at the heart of this film. It's a true labor of love from the creators/crew & all the actors. They're what really make this film a lasting gem! The icing on the cake are Danny Elfman's score, and also Grodin's facial expressions. I can't help but think about "Midnight," whenever I see a package of Chorizo at my supermarket.  That's still on my taste-test list.

"See you in the next life": the Blu-ray review.