Wow! This set managed to give me appreciation for the ENTIRE Ripley/Alien trilogy, and even some respect for "Resurrection".
I remember my dad and I watching "Alien" when I was 10 years old or so in a hotel Spectravision, and I remember being terrified by "the perfect organism", (as Ash put it), and the conspiracy and duplicity of "The Company".
Then in 1986, I remember seeing Sigourney Weaver and the Queen on the cover of Time with the caption "Horrors!" - and my dad and I just HAD to see it! Everything about it was great - Cameron executed this perfectly. One of the best examples of this is when Ripley, after rescuing Newt, stumbles into the Queen's chamber. The dramatic score suddenly stops, the camera pans around, and I'll bet there wasn't a single audience member who didn't gasp upon seeing the multitude of eggs and the egg-laying itself. I still shudder when I see it.
For a long time I thought Alien 3 and Resurrection where just pieces of junk, more Hollywood attempts to squeeze money out of a good franchise (and in the process, squeezing the life out of it as well). To me, those movies never existed - I thought they shamed Ridley Scott, Cameron, Weaver, and the xenomorph.
When I bought this, I gave the special edition of Alien 3 a whirl, and I found I liked it a lot better than the original. Yeah, so some of the Alien CGI isn't great - so what. By now we've seen the creature enough we know what it looks like. I came to enjoy the starkness of the movie, and the feeling of finality and despair for the inmates and Ripley. (Not to mention I like the way the Alien was born in this one...I don't like movies with canine casualties.)
Resurrection was pretty much the same. I never really liked it, and it was useful only in explaining more of the creatures life-cycle, which I always found interesting.
The extras are great - I usually skip them, but the "Aliens" disc, with all the interviews, commentaries, etc. was FANTASTIC for a fan like me.
Since the original "Alien" and "Aliens" are out of print, I think this is the only way to get them on DVD now. But those two films are worth the price of admission.