I love Bambi. I wasn't too crazy about the movie when I was very little (I thought it was too cheerful and too musical), but now that I'm older and I've had a chance to see it again and really take a good look at it, it's become one of my all-time favorite movies. The song "Love is a Song" and the scene where Bambi's mother dies both make me tingle almost every time.

And Bambi 2 is a wonderful sequel to such a wonderful movie. It takes place shortly after Bambi's mother is killed by the hunters. (Those darn hunters!) Don't worry, you don't actually relive the death scene in this movie.

Bambi is running around in the woods, calling his mother's name, just like in the first movie, and is receiving no response. Then he runs smack into his father, the Great Prince of the Forest, or the Great Prince, for short. The Great Prince informs Bambi that his mother can't be with him anymore, and then he leads him to his own den, which is located in another part of the forest. Bambi, as you can well imagine, is devastated by the loss of his mother. The Great Prince then speaks to Friend Owl (who somehow knows of Bambi's mother's death and is feeling very sorry for the little fawn), asking him to help find a suitable doe to raise Bambi, as Bambi is still quite young and isn't ready to manage on his own yet.

Due to harsh conditions (such as the shortage of food and the intense wintry weather), Bambi is temporarily placed in the care of the Great Prince himself. The Great Prince is very reluctant at first (in his opinion, a prince's sole responsibility is to look after the herd; does care for the young), but he agrees. So Bambi spends the rest of the winter with his father.

Eventually spring arrives, and Bambi meets up with his old pals, Thumper the rabbit and Flower the skunk. He even meets up with Faline, his crush, and Ronno, the big brute that he battles with in the first movie.

Ronno is sort of the antagonist of this movie, but the real antagonist is man. I won't give away any details, but there is one scene in the movie where a pack of vicious dogs attack Bambi. Luckily the Great Prince arrives just in time and fights the dogs off. Then he and Bambi race into the trees together just as man is firing at them with a gun.

Bambi feels like he's a big disappointment to his father. He makes it his goal to prove that he can be every bit as brave and stalwart as the Great Prince. Thumper gives Bambi a hand (er, I mean, a paw) and Flower sort of helps out as well.

Eventually the time comes when Bambi's courage--and the Great Prince's love for his son--is put to the ultimate test. The same pack of dogs that attacked Bambi earlier in the movie start to advance on a helpless doe, and Bambi is torn between running far away and saving the doe's life. Finally he makes up his mind that the doe will not die in the same way his mother did, and he bravely lures the dogs away from her.

The Great Prince goes after his son, and soon Bambi is able to thwart every last one of the dogs. But just when it seems like everything's going to be okay, Bambi takes an unexpected fall from the edge of a cliff. When the Great Prince finds him, it looks as if Bambi has died. The Great Prince, who has all but ignored Bambi for nearly half the movie, is heartbroken. He actually gets down on the ground beside Bambi and nuzzles him gently as a single tear rolls down his cheek. (This is by far the most touching and poignant scene in the entire film. Anyone who is not affected by this scene would have to have a heart of stone.) Fortunately, Bambi comes to his senses and opens his eyes, and the Great Prince is greatly relieved. They spend the next few minutes or so rubbing their faces together, and their relationship with one another improves greatly after that.

This movie is every bit as magical as the original. The animation is just as rich, and the music is just as inspiring. And the morals this film teaches are priceless. It's not as long as the first Bambi, but it's a real keeper.

If you haven't seen this movie yet, then I strongly recommend that you do so. You will not be disappointed.