After Jason Goes to Hell, my expectations were pretty low for this one. "At least it can't possiibly be as bad as the last one" I thought to myself as I popped Jason X in. And it's true, it was better than Jason Goes to Hell...in a way of saying it is better to be shot and killed instantly than to be stabbed and slowly bleed to death. One may be less painful than the other, but both sure do suck. That is the case here. This is the gunshot to Jason Goes To Hell's slow death. By now you probably know the premise of the movie. Jason kills a bunch of people on a spaceship some 446 years into the future. As is the tradition with the past few movies, no tie in to the movie before it(at the end of Jason Goes To Hell, Jason goes to, well, Hell). Also in Jason Goes To Hell it is explained by creepy actor Steven Williams of 21 Jump Street fame that only a Vorhees can kill Jason. No Vorhees on board the space ship, but needless to say, Jason is killed yet again at the end. Some of the things in the movie are REALLY bad, the acting being the first thing to come to mind. The characters themselves are very unlikeable. I have seen countless hundreds of horror movies, but this is the ONLY one I can remember where I wanted ALL the hapless victims to die. Anyways, the whole outer space thing adds too much sci-fi to the horror based film. The special effects are horrible, but really cool if you are into old horror(think Ed Wood here). And Jason's new look, which thankfully only came at the end of the movie, is laughable. BUT, there are some good things here. The timing of Jason's revival is hilarious, and the first kill on the space ship is a classic. The scene towards the end with the campers is awesome as it will remind true FT13 fans of one of the most popular killings ever. And the VERY end is cool as a throwback, retro effect. All in all, it is a lot of bad stuff to sit through to get to a few bright spots. Other than a few cool death scenes, nothing great here. If you need this for your collection, then get it. If you don't already have the previous 9 movies, don't bother buying this. Do what I did and talk your girlfriend into renting it for you....for all my movie reviews check out my website at fromtheblackchair.blogspot