"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is arguably one of the most complex and brilliant dramedies in the Romance genre. Not only is it one of the best films of 2004 but it's probably one of the best films within the last decade. It's absolutely amazing. Jim Carrey and Charlie Kaufman are at their very best in this brilliant piece of cinematic art. This is my second viewing today (My first was at the theaters about 6 months ago) and I don't think I could ever get tired of it. Kaufman, your Oscar is coming. Hopefully the Academy won't be dumb enough to ignore this one.

Jim Carrey, in one of his most subtle and best performances of his carrer, plays Joel, a quiet and mousey man who buries himself in writing a bunch of journal entries of his "not very interesting" life (Which explains why there's several blanks). But then he meets Clementine (Kate Winslet), a free-spirited but rather impulsive woman who changes colors of her hair that depict her many different moods. They epitomize the "opposites attract" phrase because Joel's shy and Clementine's energetic and talky. They're immediately attracted to eachother which leads to a long-term relationship that ends rather badly. Joel's heartbroken beyond belief after an encounter with Clementine when she acts as if she's never seen him before in her life. Confused and ultimately sad, he then realizes that she has had her memory erased of him over at a clinic called Lacuna, which specialzes in erasing the memories of a certain person in the patients minds that upsets them. Joel desperately decides to participate. But is this really what he wants? Do you seriously not want to remember your past girlfriends/boyfriends?

Director Michael Gondry, creates rather surreal imagery and deja-vu that brings you inside the mind of Joel's memories, which he is gradually losing. The visuals are innovative on his memory loss. People begin disappear, surroundings begin to break apart, Joel's brought into a new memory in an instant (Some of his childhood, which are some of the most bittersweet and amusing parts of the film), etc. But the props of the film go to Charlie Kaufman. I am just obsessed with Kaufman and I think he is, along with David Mamet, the best screenwriter in Hollywood.  I never thought any of the brilliance and complexity of "Adaptation" would ever be topped,  but "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is his best work to date.  As for Carrey, his performance was wonderfully subtle compared to his previous work. He portrays Joel as a quiet and melancholy individual and that's a different turn for Carrey since he's known for playing maniacal or goofy characters from "The Cable Guy" and "Dumb & Dumber." Not the least bit of overacting in this performance. So if you're the usual Carrey fan, I wouldn't recommend it. But as for film buffs, definitely recommended. It's moving, it's sad, it's funny and it's brilliant. "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" maybe one of the best comedies ever made in a long time (or ever, period).