I am rarely into T.V. shows, but I was told CYE was one of the funniest shows on T.V. Since I don't get HBO, I proceeded to rent the first two seasons on DVD a couple of months ago. Let's just say I had Season 3 pre ordered ASAP. This truly is deserving of the many claims it has received as one of the funniest shows on television. It certainly is the funniest thing I have seen in recent memory.

 CYE Season 3 keeps up the hilarity of the previous seasons, and makes the series seem a bit more seamless, although each episode can still be plenty enjoyed as a stand alone. By now, if you are considering purchasing this set, you must have already seen the first two seasons (and if not, what are you waiting for? Go!), and this season is in the same vein as the prior two.

However, this show is not for everyone and the faint of heart. Yes there are awkward situations and sexual references, yes there is vulgarity, and if that is all you can see (or if you can't handle it), then this show is certainly not for you. If you are a person who is easily offended by some dirty humor, you'll want to stay far, far away from Curb. But there is genuine comic genius in just about every episode of this show, and if you can deal with the wanton attitude and coarse nature of the show, then you're in for a real treat. Once again, if you've already seen the first two seasons already, you'll know what you're in for.

  If Seinfeld was a show about nothing, CYE is a show about nothing that quickly turns into something. In case you haven't already seen the show, seemingly trivial and minor incidents that occur to Larry David early on always become magnified and return to play a role of huge consequence later in the episode. If you think you're having a bad day, just wait until you see some of the exploits of Larry David. The man must have the worst luck around! If you appreciate the style of humor the show has, you will surely burst out laughing at least once every episode. Larry David may come off as a direspectful, ignorant, snob to some, but I'm sure most people can relate to him at least in some small degree. Highly Reccomended.

  And now, I'll be not so patiently sitting around waiting for the next season of CYE to hit dvd...