Watching MTM's Season 6 reminded me how always-happy-perky Mary Richard's iconic TV character image wasn't always.  And I figured out why.  TMTMS wasn't rerun into perpetuity after it left the air in 1977, like some shows.  And when it did get picked up in syndication, for some reason a lot of stations didn't stick with it for its entire 7-year run.  So what happened is that later generations got to see usually only the first few seasons with Rhoda, Phyllis, Mary's first apartment, and Mary with all her over-the-top hairstyles and fashions.  But this release, and the show's coincidental longrun repeats on MeTV, have reminded me of how in later seasons--including episodes I literally hadn't really seen in decades--Mary really matured, and how great this show was at developing its characters and giving them backstories.

Season Six Mary begins to reflect real-life working women and has a job wardrobe that becomes a bit more realistically modest; she re-wears the same outfits in some episodes.  Heck, even her hair stays more the same, and she finally tones down some of the earlier seasons' stage makeup and ditches the bigtime false eyelashes.  We see a Mary who shows more of her not-always-positive or upbeat sides, and I mean that in a complimentary way.  Younger generations will enjoy seeing that Mary Richards could have doubts, get irritated, want to make changes in her personal, romantic and domestic life, to debate, to answer back, and not simply exist in the workplace--or the world--to be a "pretty woman."  Rather, as the '70s grew, so did Mary Richards.  She showed, especially in this and the seventh season of TMTMS, that women could rightfully be in the workplace and be themselves, and earn their places there, without always needing to have every beautiful hair and matching dress accessory in place, or smiling a megawatt smile and holding her disagreeing feelings inside in order to make her male coworkers or her supervisors happy.  In this later phase, I'm glad that Mary Richards showed that she actually did, for real, make it after all.  :)