Clint Eastwood managed to find a masterpiece of a script this time, and the brilliance of his directorship shone through. In this movie, the supposedly righteous sheriff turns out to be a brutal arbitrator, the violent, face-cutting cowboy an ordinary young man who committed a mindless crime, the celebrated "English Bob" a hollow underachiever and liar, and the seemingly fearless "Schofield Kid" a boastful but naive young man, the prostitutes a hive of hateful, vindictive beings. Eastwood plays William Munny, a supposedly reformed ex-killer and weak old man who, at the sheriff's slaying of the innocent friend accompanying him on his bounty, re-engaged in violence and vengeance and overcame even the sheriff and his deputies. In short, the one supposed to be the good guy turns out to be vicious and unconscionable, the otherwise insignificant (prostitutes) reveals themselves to be murderous, and then justice comes in the most unlikely source and form.

With a cast consisted of Gene Hackman, Richard Harris and Morgan Freeman, Eastwood got himself a movie teeming with such solid acting as to be hard to surpass in the film industry, alongside with his latter production of The Space Cowboys. This movie is also filled with supple nuances that withstand repeated viewing in appreciation of the finely crafted action sequences and cinematography. I enjoyed the little humors that Eastwood shared with the audience, such as him resorting to a shotgun for target practice after failing with a handgun, the exaggerated description of abhorring acts done to the prostitute that he describes to Freeman's character, the little standoff between Harris' "English Bob" character and Hackman's "Little Bill" character at the Barbershop, etc.

The Western that Eastwood depicts is an expansive and clean-aired one, and one could almost smell the fabric off his old jacket and the sogginess of that jail house in the rain, not to mention the wetness at W.W. Beauchamp's foot. With all the violence in this film, there is the irrepressible background premise of the human conscience, of what ought to be necessity and justice, and what truly are not.

The Blu-Ray transfer is beautiful and the sound is more detailed and dynamic. There is even a complete black-and-white episode of the 1959 Maverick TV show starring Eastwood included. I bought it for $9.99 from Amazon; for a movie starring solid acting and wonderful story-telling, and in wonderful picture and sound, this disc is indispensable.