Misery provides suspense as well as freaky stuff as James Caan and Kathy Bates play exciting roles. Paul Sheldon(James Caan) is a leading author of the 'Misery' series. Though, on a snowy New England road his car crashes and he is rescued by his No.1, some what unstable, fan. Though at first you might think Annie Wilkes(Kathy Bates) is an average caring lady, think again. The slick-two hander Stephen King adaption is like a prison cell for James Caan. With two mangled legs, his ideas of recovering safely are short lived after he finds out about her mood swings after she reads Paul's latest book. Then, Annie buys the latest Misery book. The physcopath is mad after her beloved Misery is dead and throws the tantrums at the recovering Paul Sheldon. And soon after that, a frightened but determined Paul finds that he will have to outwit a crazy and freakish Annie Wilkes. Soon enough he is told to destroy his own brought copy and make a new Misery where Misery returns and put Mrs. Wilkes name on it. He wanders around the house on two occasions due to he is isolated in one room. He finds her scrap book and is surprised by the horrifying truth. He stills a knife but when asleep has it snatched and is strapped to the bed helplessy and the result is he gets a painful experience after she finds out he had been gone the two occasions.

Love the scene when a distraught Paul types f***f***f***f***f*** on the typewriter. It was one that made somebody laugh, even when Paul was in a bad situation.

Through this movie there are clues on how Paul was planning his revenge, one was when he was lifting the typewriter thus at the end he smashed it across her head. The healing did help him recover soon enough to get  his revenge. Also the picking the lock scene was clever due it was a coeincidence he found the object on the floor.

The bloody scene at the end when the two are having a scrappy dog fight and Paul stuffs the burnt Misery copy in Annie's mouth made me feel better due she did shoot the sherrif with a shotgun. She (the bitch) eventually died. Thank god for that. The scene at the very end when the approaching waitress(with Annie's face) made me think she had came back to life. Cartoonish freakish stuff made this movie unpredictable. Thank you Rob Reiner was putting together at last a great movie by the name of Stephen King. Kath Bates deservedly won an Academy Award for her fine freakish performance.

'Misery' will put you out of your misery.