Based on the new release by Paramount (the first Star Trek DVD/Video with any semblance of extra features that have meat on them), a perceived wrong has now been corrected. No longer is it Star Trek: The Motionless Picture, although there is still a little bit of "Where Nomad Has Gone Before" in it. Wise often said that he had made 30 films, and 29 of them were representative of his standard of quality. Now it's 30.
In many cases, a matter of a few frames to a few minutes in some areas was trimmed from the film. No longer are there superfluous sections, such as those added in 1983 to make the film a "TV Event." The story moves better. The action plays better. And the flaws in the main characters are more pronounced and poignant. Remember that this script was the basis for an episode for the second Star Trek series that never happened (thank you Michael Eisenberg), not a feature film story, and it was ultimately rushed out to compete with Star Wars, Close Encounters, Battlestar Galactica, and any number of science fiction (not based in fact) films. So it was not the directors fault. Blame deadlines in stone and Jeffrey Katzenberg if you want, but leave Bob Wise alone.
Even the most subtle of changes have created a new patina of texture in line with the palette of tricks used when it was first made. The special effects guys were able to retrograde their work to 1978/1979 standards to the point that if you were seeing it the first time it would hard to determine what was added and where. Still, shots that used to be static now have motion. Shots in which we were previously looking at reactions or the view screen now actually have something to react to. The story, even though it is essentially the same, is also tighter. Also, the recomposed final approach and crew exit from the Enterprise to contact V'ger alone raises the level of this film several notches.
One more note for you critics. It is not outstanding. The even numbered ST films still retain that accolade. But it is new enough that it has a new copyright date, and altered enough that it now warrants a PG rating instead of the original G. Also, the few moments we see of William Shatner talking about the work actually seem to present him without the expected veneer seen in the past (but still with a piece on - and so what!). He appears more genuine than memory provides. So let him be also. Read his books. He was willing to let go of the com long before many Star Trek fans were wanting to let him do so.
I am a fan of intellectual writing and good storyline, which made ST:TNG my favorite series for some time (along with NYPD Blue and West Wing to show you my tastes). While I am well versed in Trek-lore (or Data and Lor) I don't go to conventions, wear uniforms or prosthetics, or even split my fingers when I greet people. Still, from the intellectual point of view -
THIS IS ENTERTAINMENT PEOPLE. IT HAS A MESSAGE IN THERE, BUT IT IS ENTERTAINMENT.
This isn't a documentary or Private Ryan or something. So for the entertainment value I rate it at 4+ stars, saving films like Wrath of Kahn and Dr. Zhivago for 5 stars. Got a problem with that? I got a Klingon friend to introduce you too!
Thanks for reading. Live long and buy the DVD.