Yeah, it's a not really a full first season, but the first 25 half-hour shows is still a big number for a 5-disc set! I just can't wait to buy this for my siblings, because I loved the show as a kid, and nowadays, I still appreciate the zany Looney Tunes-esque slapstick antics, solid art style, and great voice-acting.

As listed on tvshowsondvd.com, the first 25 episodes are:

1. De-Zanitized, The Monkey Song, Nighty Night Toon

2. Yakko's World, Cookies For Einstein, Win Big

3. HMS Yakko, Slappy Goes Walnuts, Yakko's Universe Song

4. Hooked on a Ceiling, Good Feathers (pilot episode)

5. Taming of the Screwy

6. Flipper Parody, Temporary Insanity, Operation Lollipop, What are We?

7. Piano Rag, When Rita Met Runt

8. The Warner's Lot Song, The Big Candy Store, Bumbie's Mom

9. Wally Llama, Where Rodents Dare

10. King Yakko

11. No Pain, No Painting, Les Miseranimals

12. Garage Sale of the Century, West Side Pigeons

13. Hello Nice Warners, La Behemoth, Little Old Slappy From Pasadena

14. La La Law, Cat On a Hot Steel Beam

15. Space Probed, Battle For the Planet

16. Chalkboard Bungle, Hooray for Slappy, The Great Wakkoroti: The Master & His Music

17. Roll over Beethoven, The Cat and the Fiddle

18. Pavlov's Mice, Chicken Boo-Rhyshnikov, Nothing But the Tooth

19. Meatballs or Consequences, A Moving Experience

20. Hitchcock Opening, Hearts of Twilight; The Boids

21. The Flame, Wakko's America Song, Davey Omelette, Four Score and Seven Migraines Ago

22. Guardin' the Garden, Plane Pals

23. Be Careful What You Eat, Up the Crazy River, Ta Da Dump

24. Yakko's World of Baldness, Oppurtunity Knox, Wings Take Heart

25. Disasterpiece Theatre, Hercule Yakko, Home On The Nile, A Midsummer Night's Dream

In addition, you'll also get the extra: "Animaniacs Live!" where Maurice LaMarche, voice of Brain, along with Animaniac friends comment on the facts of Steven Spielberg's show. The audio, too, is presented in Dolby 5.1 Surround Sound--can't wait to hear the theme song blasting through my Kenwood reciever system!