I hate the book after reading it.  I rented the movie because I grew up in Hong Kong watching Chinese dramas and movies and I watched Li Bing Bing's other TV dramas and movies and loved them.  She played Lily in this movie. As someone who hates the book, I find the movie much better than the book, even though it's not one bit as good as the other historical dramas and movies played by Li Bing Bing before.  The movie edited the plot in the book where Lily and Snowflower were teenagers and were writing Nu Shu on their naked private body parts.  In the movie, Lily and Snowflower were writing Nu Shu on their shoulders and they were little kids.  I played the same game with my sister when I was a little kid in elementary school.  She wrote Chinese characters on my back and I would guess what characters they were. I then did the same to her.  The movie improved this  rather perverted and wierd Nu Shu body writing from the novel into an innocent and normal child's play. So I have to give the screen play writer my thumbs up for changing that, and accurately depicting this game, probably played by lots of little Chinese kids.  May be the author in the novel is American and tried to Americanized this game too much into something that can sell to the American readers.

When the movie incorporated modern day life as a parallel to the ancient fictional story written by Sophia, the entire Snowflower and Secret Fan story becomes much more logical and sensible than the novel.  In the movie, Sophia was incorporating her real life experience and also her knowledge about the Nu Shu to write the Snowflower and the Secret Fan novel that has yet to be published.  Her best friend Nina uncovered the manuscript after Sophia's traffic accident and by reading it, she came to better understand what her best friend Sophia was going through.

I have problems with the novel quoting the Nu Shu writing on the fan into some stupid low intelligent and shallow English translation that totally got me scratching my Chinese head.  But the Nu Shu messages recited by the characters in Mandarine in the movie are totally logical and culturally accurate.

The novel centers the story too much on foot binding.  To me, the novel blows the foot binding part of the Chinese women's life in that period of China into much bigger proportion and is totally misleading. The only thing I don't like about the movie is that the movie picks up 100% of the inaccurate foot binding tradition from the novel.  But since Sophia in the movie is from Korea and she only wrote a manuscript and not a hugely successful best seller, I can forgive Sophia for being misinformed.  Small feet and small shoes were high fashion for wealthy family.  Poor families needed their daughters to raise kids and do chores in the house, and sometimes work as maids for wealthy people, so they couldn't afford to bind their daughters' feet.  I know because I read enough Chinese books about foot binding and I happened to have a great great grandmother who worked as maid in the late Qing Dynasty. Her boss's daughter's feet were bound so she was hired to serve the wealthy family's daughter, to be her walking stick.  My great great grandmother, her mother and her sisters never had their feet bound because they needed their feet to make a living and to take care of themselves....My grandmother told me that my great great grandmother was able to survive the Japanese Occupation because her feet were not bound and she was able to run.  Women whose feet were bound had huge difficulties in walking and often needed help to even move around the house.  They were totally dependent on others' assistance.  It's crazy to see how Lily was poor and yet she could afford to have feet that were 3 inches small.  At least the movie tells the audience that the Snowflower and Secret Fan story was just the manuscript of a novel written by a Korean girl and it was really fictional...  But when I was reading the  novel that claims to be telling a Chinese story from that period of time, poor Lily's marriage to a rich family and her bound feet were flaws that became too disturbing, too illogical and totally ruined the story's credibility to me.  Given the cultural restriction and the cast system at that time in China, Lily should have married the butcher and Snowflower should have married the wealthy family.
I can accept the movie even though I feel it's a little too bored and lame compared to Li Bing Bing's (the lead actress) other works.  At least Lily and Snowflower in the movie are talking sensible and logical Chinese instead of some weird English translation that don't make sense to me.  I find the movie okay, even though not great.