I am astonished that this film has been so undeservingly underated. It strikes me that certain people went along with the intention of having an utterly miserable time if they saw anything less brilliant than 'Citizen Kane', then took enormous pleasure in savaging this film when it failed to reach their vast expectations. Frankly if you are so through an elitist in films that the thought of teenage or 20ish characters (God forbid) or their brand of pop culture makes you break out into a hysterical fit of ranting, then you should have known better than to stay away from this.
DuJour are an utterly devestating parody of a boyband, and understandably much of the first half-hour is spent in their shadow. Still our introduction to the Pussycats is well done, and easily establishes their current standing. Rachael Leigh Cook, a stunning actress with the largest eyes I have ever seen, is nicely done here. To anyone who would doubt her comedic talent - or lack of interest there in - just watch her eye movements in her first scene with Alan M. Maybe, and I confess I am not an expert, she is different from the cartoon Josie, but by all accounts that is a good thing. In the cartoons I hear she was a nonentity, here she is the core character of the film. While Tara Reid's Melody is perhaps funnier, Josie is still the  centre and Rachael Leigh Cook does it well. The other Pussycats have similar good moments, though shorter than Josie's.
Alan Cumming simply lights up the screen whenever he appears. While we are required to actually like Josie, Mel and Val (and they are in fact very likeable) Cummings Whyatt Frame is under no such constraints and it is entirely suitable that he is the only character to break the fourth wall. Posey Parker is almost as good as Cumming, but odder yet. She is good fun in the film, though not as purely fantastic as Cumming.
The supporting cast are okay. Paulo Costanzo as the Pussycats hopeless manager Alexander Cabot III is the best, but Missi Pyle, Gabriel Mann, Tom Butler and especially Alexander Martin, are all very good.
I'm amazed that so many people seem to have either not realised the product placement was part of the films joke, or have realised it, but decide to hold it against them anyway. The gag does become a little cloying after a while, but it does slow down a bit in the final half hour, and is never too distracting. If you found the product placement scene in Waynes World funny, this should cause you no trouble.
The music is of course down to personal taste, but I found some of it at least pretty good, and nothing more unmemorable than any other film track. '3 Simple Words' and 'Pretend to be Nice' are viable singles in their own right, and you will never be able to listen to a boyband again after 'Backdoor Lover' and 'DuJour around the World'. Rachael Leigh Cook, Tara Reid and Rosario Dawson do at least provide backing for their own songs, which is something.
Overall I would say that this was one of the most underated films of 2001 and the least deserved flop. What kind of sick world is it where 'The Mummy Returns' is more popular than 'Josie...?' Watch it.
Yours
~Ross