For undemanding 12 year olds looking for a cute adventure story this would be pretty good but for anyone with a questioning mind there are just too many gigantic potholes in the story line. Based on a real case where dogs were left at a Japanese base on the coast this version takes far too many liberties. Dealing with just the most obvious: What would the dogs have eaten for 6 months? There is an Emperor penguin colony at Coulman Island up the coast from Mount Melbourne but except for the odd Weddell seal no other living creatures come ashore in the Antarctic winter. from May to August it is constantly dark, (we are shown broad daylight in June!!), and the dogs could not have caught live food. Temperatures fall to 60 below along the coast with ferocious winds. They might have found a dead orca as depicted but for it to have been washed ashore in this way is highly improbable. Leopard seals usually feed on other seals and penguins and all penguins except the emperors have long since gone to sea. In the early part of the film the scientist and his carer move over dangerous ice without roping up - fatal! The scientist and the map maker are just too idiotic and weak to be credible and the cute young female super pilot seems to be licenced for twin otters, helicopters and can land uninvited on ice breakers at sea in the Southern Ocean! Must be on loan from the Navy Seals! They steal a snow mobile from the Terra Nova Italian base in the area etc. etc. The dogs were tremendous but spare us the humans and the incompetent story line. To imply that the summer season ends in late January / early February is nonsense. In fact the twin otters are usually the last to either fly out up through the peninsula to Chile or go into winter storage in April / May. They can indeed land on a pin, I have made a blind landing on an icefield in a whiteout just using an altimeter so they could easily have gone back for the dogs - yes it is just a story but at least make it a bit more believable! Rent for the kids only.