I've seen the anime movie version of this (released in 2000), and the anime series which was based on the original (2005).  The series is quite different from the original, and stands on its own.  Both are well done and among my favorites.  I really wanted to like this new version, since it had live actors and the trailers had that "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" look and feel.
Unfortunately it comes up short when compared to the original.
The opening scenes of both versions are the same, and the setting is the same, but the 2009 movie soon takes a 90 degree turn into an alternate universe and never looks back.  Saya and David (renamed Michael) are the only characters who exists in both versions, and Michael gets blown away half way through the new version.  Saya is supposed to be the last vampire, but in this movie there are hugh numbers of them, including Onigen, the oldest and most powerful of the "demons".  The word Chiropteran isn't even used in this version.
Other characters are based on the original, but they have different names, and different actions.
The trouble with this release is that it seems like a female version of a combination of the Blade series of movies, plus a female version of Luke Skywalker/Darth Vader expressed in the relationship of Saya/Onigen.
Add a bit of Michael Jackson's Thriller video to make it complete.
Saya isn't even a full vampire (Chiropteran) in this version.  But that doesn't stop her hacking her way through about 100 or so demons on the way to her confrontation with Onigen.
The special effects are good, but the story line gets murky, and the end is both predictable and unsatisfying.  It comes across as just another movie using a time tested formula script to produce a safe and, hopefully, profitable bit of fluff entertainment.  The dark edginess of the original is totally lacking, and the characters are just disposable figures needed to fill in the action sequences.
What was the climax of the anime movie shows up about half way through the new version, and has no where near the emotional energy of the original.  In the anime, this is where you get to see the pain and inner conflict that haunts Saya as she kills her own kind to protect humanity.  The new version tries generate a bit of emotion here, but it comes across lame and trivializes what was the most important scene of the anime movie.
If you haven't seen the original or the series then you may find the 2009 version a bit better than I rate it.
In my opinion, the original anime movie is much better, I would rate the original at 4 stars.

Pat Phillips