This was an extremely inspirational movie! It was amazing to see how much strength and courage in one person could cause so much change for so many people. The movie began with Gandhi's assassination in 1948 and the funeral service and then goes back in time to when he was an attorney in South Africa in 1893.  During this time he realizes how bad Indian people are being treated in South Africa due to racial discrimination and begins his non-violent protests to gain some rights for the Indian people in Africa.
 After his success there he returns to India where he continues his non-violent, non-cooperation campaign there against the British Empire. The British government controls everything and the Indian people are treated very poorly in their own land. Millions of Indian people follow Gandhi's campaign against the British, but problems begin to occur such as protestors being killed. Gandhi eventually tries to stop the campaign by fasting until everyone stops protesting so no one else will be killed. Gandhi spends time in jail and protesting eventually begins again. The British is eventually pushed to the point that they grant India independence.
 Unfortunately after all of his work gaining rights for Indians in South Africa and being such a leader in gaining India's independence from the British things were still unsettled in India.  The end of the movie was about the war between religions. The Muslims and the Hindus began fighting and killing each other. Gandhi again refuses to eat until the fighting stops. Eventually it does, but India becomes separated into two nations: India and Pakistan. He spends his last days continually trying to bring peace between the two nations and religions. In the end the movie comes around to the beginning where he is shot and killed by one of his own.
 This movie relates to world religions by showing what religious tensions can cause.  Gandhi went through all those struggles to bring his people out of the pain and suffering they were experiencing under other governments due to racial inequality, oppression, etc. Then they turn on each other because they believed in religious inequality. We see this all over the world in all nations just maybe not to this extreme. Gandhi's belief was that all people can live together regardless of our race, gender, religion, caste, etc. Instead of people wasting so much time being prejudice and hating they need to take the time to learn about others and their way of life. This is a wonderful movie. It could be a great learning tool and inspiration to all.