This summer I had the privilege and pleasure of being part of a local production of Grease, albeit in an offstage capacity. It was amateur, though not amateurish. Sure, most of the cast won't be seen on Broadway, but I came away with a pretty good idea of what Grease the Musical should look and sound like. 
Unfortunately, you won't find out if you purchase Grease the Video. 
This version is a 50's musical in a 70's setting, or a 70's musical in a 50's setting. I haven't decided which. Moreover, I don't think the producer, Robert Stigwood, had decided either when he embarked on this project. 
Stigwood, in case the reader didn't know, also produced the movie musical Sergeant Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band based on the Beatles' album (as if I had to explain this. Or do I?) That movie was featured in Golden Turkey Awards: The Worst Achievements in Hollywood History by film critics Harry and Michael Medved.  In Grease the Video, caricatures of 50's greasers sing songs that careen across two decades. The original Greased Lightning is here, but so are You're the One That I Want and Hopelessly Devoted to You, sung by Olivia Newton-John, an immensely cloying and annoying vocalist. Sure, the added songs are good by Top 40 standards. But what are they doing here? Had Stigwood produced Fiddler On the Roof, we might have had to listen to the diaspora singing disco. 
Adding songs that weren't in the original was bad enough. Some songs were cut to make room for the 70's updates. Missing from the video is the exuberant opening number, a parody of the Rydell High School alma mater song. Also missing is the tender, plaintive It's Raining On Prom Night. Alone at the Drive-In got switched for a sappy Sandy. You're the One That I Want took the place of the snarling little darling I'm All Choked Up.
 Grease the Video is not without some merits. Frankie Avalon is the perfect choice, perhaps the ONLY choice, as the Teen Angel who sings the hilarious Beauty School Dropout. Stockard Channing also appears as the cynical yet vulnerable Rizzo. I suppose there are worse things Stigwood could do. Find out for yourself. Go rent Sergeant Pepper instead, and save the remainder to see a local production of Grease As It Should Be.