Adventures of Captain Marvel is highly regarded among fans as the best superhero movie serial of all time! And with good reason. The sequences of Captain Marvel flying are very well done. This is due to the expertise of stuntman Dave Sharpe & Republic Pictures special effects crew run by Howard & Theodore Lydecker. Also the story about the golden scorpion device is excellent as well. The Malcolm Expedition has traveled to Siam to find the lost secrets of the Scorpion Dynasty. After they accidentally learn how destructive & even how useful the device is they become trapped in a cave. Here the wizard Shazam magically appears before Billy Batson for the first & last time in the serial. Shazam tells Billy to repeat his name & he will instantly be transformed into Captain Marvel. Shazam also cautions Billy that the powers of Captain Marvel must always be used for good & never for evil or for Billy's own personal benefit. Through the 12 chapters we're treated to many exciting cliffhanger endings. But at the end of chapter 12 when the golden scorpion machine is destroyed Captain Marvel cease to exist. Why didn't Republic Pictures want to allow for a sequel? No doubt because of the ongoing lawsuits between Fawcett publications(publisher of Whiz Comics Captain Marvel's comic book) & DC (publisher of Superman comic books). DC had claimed that Captain Marvel was an imitation of Superman & they tried to prevent Republic from releasing the movie serial. After many years of legal battles (1940-1953) Fawcett finally stopped publishing comic books completely. Nothing more was done with Captain Marvel until 1973. DC Comics gained control of Cap & began printing his adventures under the title Shazam to avoid any more legal issues. A Shazam tv series debuted in 1974 on Saturday mornings & ran until 1977. I remember watching the show back then & thinking ''this guy's so cool.'' I hadn't heard of Shazam before this & I didn't know about the 1941 serial until 1993. Tom Tyler as Captain Marvel & Frank Coghlan Jr. as Billy Batson perfectly resemble the comic book images. When watching this serial on dvd I suggest using the chapter select option rather than play all. At the end of each chapter you have to wait for the Artisan logo the Republic Pictures logo & the copyright warning before you can see the next chapter. It's time consuming! By using chapter select you hit your dvd player's menu button & go back to chapter select without all the hassle. As an added bonus each chapter is broken down into 5 scene selections. So if you want to stop watching halfway through 1 chapter & start again later it's no problem! Awesome! How many serials on dvd offer this? NONE! I do feel that the serial should have been truer to the origin of Captain Marvel from Whiz Comics. Such is not the case but it's still a great serial anyway. Adventures of Captain Marvel was the first time a superhero came to the big screen! Also actor Nigel de Brulier does an excellent job playing the wizard Shazam. He looks just like he walked straight from Whiz Comics right onto the movie screen! The Shazam tv show isn't entirely true to the comics either. Billy Batson (played by Micheal Gray) & Mentor (played by Les Tremayne) travel across the USA in their RV motorhome. On each episode Billy is briefed on his missions as Captain Marvel by the 6 elders(Greek gods Solomon Hercules Atlas Zeus Achilles & Mercury appear in animated form via mental telepathy). The wizard Shazam is never seen on this show. Shazam debuted in 1974 & ran until 1977 for a total of 28 episodes. Captain Marvel has not been seen on movie screens since. I hope that will change someday soon. SHAZAM!