Okay, I've seen it (and got the T-Shirt) and here's my initial words on the topic... I've tried to keep it brief.

I had very low expectations due to some of the casting and the Digital-Video shoot. However, after seeing the evidence, many of my misgivings have been swept away. Read on...

This is easily the best use of SFX and CGI in quite some time. STAR WARS III pales away into insignificance due to the effects swamping the story and dwarfing the characters. In SIN CITY, all the special effects are there to service the plot and characters and this blending is so seamless that one easily forgets that you're watching SFX, instead you focus in on the story and become completely absorbed by the population that resides in the hard-boiled streets of SIN CITY.

The Noir style of the film, with all those jagged jaws, tough women and blood splattered corpses, makes this film the most visually arresting of the last few years. It really has pushed the envelope in what can now be done to illustrate a story and create a credible world for the characters to inhabit it. Absolutely magnificent imagination at work here and all the artists should be commended for giving us such a vivid creation. This is easily the best comic-book adaptation ever committed to celluloid.

And what a gargantuan task it must have been for Frank Miller to adapt most of his novels into one cohesive story! He makes the art of script-writing seem so easy. Other writers should take note and follow in his footsteps. Anyone who saw the recent film THE JACKET knows what I'm talking about here.

The performances are very convincing and no one actor overshadows the others. This ensemble piece is spellbinding and, once again, is there to showcase the diverse stories rather than glorifying individual characters. This allows us to become immersed in the world of SIN CITY and watch, almost like a fly which spies from a wall, the different people as their paths criss-cross the bars and alleys of the rat infested city.

The music and soundstage is also carefully tailored to bring out the best details and deliver realistic sounds of a city losing it's soul. Robert Rodriguez delivers a pulpy music track that blends smoky Jazz, salty Brass and the thumping electricity of glass being cracked with bare feet. Bullets buzz like wasps and knifes slice the air in vindictive whooshes that scratch eyeballs.

Tarantino, Miller and Rodriguez have given film connoisseurs a movie that will tickle their taste-buds. They have shown great innovation and new areas have been ploughed for future generations to mine and explore.

SIN CITY is a landmark film that deserves to be seen on the big screen, it oozes class and style and will give you old fashioned entertainment. Stinky juveniles should stay well away and allow adults to savour this Pulp-Noir.

Okay, I'll shut up for now...

Recommended.