This movie is excellent from the cast of actors through the plot and the realistic brutality that is far more shocking for it's realism than many of the movie scenes that almost glorify the act of killing and the crazed manner in which people die,that is all to frequently seen in movies of this ilk.
The stone cold realism of someone being stabbed in the swimming pool shower scene, in this movie carried out by a very young Pierce Brosnan is so much more disturbing for the cold quick and mechanical taking of a life watched draining away with a simple scene of blood swirling down a drain as the victim lies dead,with only this trace of his existence left,than the wild shoot outs and incredible fire and fist power which is empty and ridiculous in so many films.
The lack of airs and graces along with a lack of pretence as to who is who and who does what is also something that marks the movie as sitting in a category with very few other films of this genre.
Bob Hoskins and Helen Mirren as the principles are a suitably cold couple.
Bob Hoskins especially seems to relish the role of being the top man,and the outtakes and follow up interviews from years later are of great interest to any film lover.
They are far more interesting and revealing than many of the two hour "lost scene,outtake" discs that are usually the drivel that did not make it past the cut,that is why they are "lost" for so long,they should never be seen,as they are terrible.
I am cynical in that i do believe these discs are deliberately held back for cash ins at a later stage,to ease the viewers money away from them to see a load of not much at a bloated price.
I have not layed out the plot or said to much about the movie,more about the atmosphere,however giving things away to first time viewers is very unkind.
I would suggest that you do get this movie and enjoy it for yourself,you will soon see how far the quick and simple efficiency of action is far more memorable and frightening than so many other movies action filled with guns,weapons,hundreds of deaths etc yet ultimately empty of any resounding memories or of wanting to watch the movie again or tell your friends about it.
Ian.