This is a great movie ... maybe the perfect movie, in that it is entertaining from beginning to end, the story is easy to understand and take a personal interest in, the bad guys are never too scary, and the ending could not be happier.

The morals too are right ... children are more important than adults, the family is more important than the job (or cause), and good behavior is important, but so is having fun.

I think it is fair to say that ... the better a movie is, the more times we will watch it.  And Mary Poppins ranks high in that department.  All the different parts (the acting, the wonderful songs, the animation) seem to come together perfectly, and the final product is, well, ... practically perfect in every way.

Thank you Walt Disney for giving us this movie.

A FEW WORDS MORE

I recently got the 40th anniversary re-issue, and it is well worth buying ... especially for any "Mary Poppins" fan.  The quality of the extras is a little up and down, but we get the movie (and that's a lot) and the "Making Of ... " extra is excellent.

A lot of people do good work for "Mary Poppins" and it's hard to pick one who might be called the MVP of the movie.  Robert Stevenson has an excellent eye as the director, Bill Walsh and Don DaGradi give us a wonderfully well thought out script, the instrumental arrangements for the songs and background music for the whole movie (done by Irwin Kostal) are excellent, Peter Ellenshaw does all those beautifully realistic background paintings (I love the one that opens the movie best), the Sherman brothers give us 13 great and memorable songs, the choreography (by Dee Dee Wood and Mark Breaux) is imaginative and fun, and the actors and actresses all do a great job (even the pigeons do a good job).  Glynis Johns is fun as Mrs. Banks ... funny in just about everything she does.

... and there's Walt.  His guiding hand ensured that we got a perfect ... or practically perfect ... movie to be enjoyed for generations.

FUN LINES FROM THE MOVIE

Mrs. Banks:  I don't think we need bother the police dear.  The facts of the matter ...

Mr. Banks:  Kindly do not attempt to cloud the issue with facts.
--

Jane Banks:  Wanted:  A nanny for two adorable children.

Mr. Banks:  Adorable.  Well that's debatable, I must say.
--

Bert:  Now's the time Mary Poppins.  No one's lookin'.
--

Mrs. Banks:  As a matter of fact, since you hired Mary Poppins, the most extraordinary thing seems to have come over the household.

Mr. Banks:  Is that so?

Mrs. Banks:  Take Ellen for instance.  She hasn't broken a dish all morning.

Mr. Banks:  Really.  Well that is extraordinary.
--
--
NICE LITTLE TOUCHES

Jane and Michael are usually made to speak ... alternatingly.  Jane will say a sentence, then Michael will say a sentence, then Jane, then Michael.  It fits very nicely into the movie.

The children are (a couple of times) made to be peering through the banister posts ... a nice touch.

Jane, after measuring Mary Poppins, is seen rising up.  Somebody had to think of doing that, and it works nicely.

After Mary Poppins returns the robin to the outdoors, she closes the cutains, and a slight breeze is then seen blowing the curtains inward.  A nice little touch.

In the cartoon sequence, one of the baby swans is made to do a sort-of spazmatic little swim.  A nice touch, I think.

After singing "Feed the Birds" Mary Poppins gently brushes the side of Jane's head.  A nice little touch.

When fleeing from the bank ... out the door ... the edge of Jane's is seen as the bank guard grabs for her.

At the end of the movie, while starting to fly their kite, Jane is made to be holding the forefingers of her mother.  A nice little touch.

TRIVIA QUESTION

When Mary Poppins (and Jane and Michael) meet Bert in the park, and Bert outlines Mary Poppins' silhouette, .... what time is it?

(answer)
It is nine o'clock.  A clock can be heard chiming in the background, and it chimes nine times.

A CURIOUS THING

Late in the movie, when Ellen (the maid) dances up and says "It's the master!" there is a black object on her shoulder.  It looks like a black glove, and I wonder why they had it there.