Ah, I purchased my first VCR in the early 80's with the specific intention of saving "Dallas" episodes. And save I did. With the advent of syndication I was able to catch up and maintain my entire "Dallas" library for the entire run.

IF conflict is the main ingredient of drama, then "Dallas" is steeped in it. From the introduction of the famous "Ewing-Barnes Feud" in Episode 1 (or "Barnes-Ewing Feud", depending on your point of view) it never lets up. Youngest son Bobby Ewing brings Pam Barnes home to Southfork as his wife, brother J.R. starts meddling, and it rolls from there. And oh how did the booze flow!

"Dallas" will take you back to a time of pre-Internet, pre-dot-com 80's-style greed and avarice (well LATE LATE 70's for this set). Do you remember a time BEFORE cellphones and pagers (when the 'mobile phone' was the exclusive domain of the rich)? Do you remember when telephones rang with a real bell and "sounded" like a telephone? How about a time when monochromatic computer screens ruled? No answering machines or email? You'll see bell-bottom business suits and wide-collar- wide-belt leisure suits, platform shoes and Farah Fawcett hair styles (Tina Louise as J.R.'s secretary is a good example of the hair). How about a time when a Mercedes luxury car belonged only to the "filthy rich"? The disco scenes at the new "Braddock" disco had us rolling on the floor laughing with the gratuitous 'butt-shots' of the dancing cast.  If you don't remember these things, buy the set, sit back, and enjoy. If you do remember those things, buy the set, sit back, and enjoy!

It's great to watch the first 5 'stand-alone' episodes evolve ito the episodic storyline-driven primetime soap it eventually became. I'm not sure if I fit the 'profile' of their target audience at the time, but "Dallas" had such a wide appeal that it was eventually copied by the likes of "Dynasty". (However, "Dynasty" never captured the real aura or essence that "Dallas" had, and in my opinion, "Dynasty" was just a hollow imitation.)

I love seeing the early episodes as they were shot entirely in Texas in what was obviously winter. SNOW, cold, and the breaths of the actors all add to the realism of it. The grass is brown, the wind blows (a LOT), cattle are auctioned, and that daggoned pickup truck has a lopsided front license plate. The later episodes, obvisouly shot in a sound stage/set in California, sort of lost that 'realism'.

Note: If you look close in one scene, you can even see the film crew and camera reflected in the passenger side window of Ray's pickup truck as it drives by (2nd or 3rd episode I think, where there appears to be lots of snow on the ground).

- One thing I could never figure out was how come Ray (who can fly a helicopter) works as a ranch-hand when he could be making more money flying (of course, it's revealed in later episodes that Ray IS Jock's son, from a WWII relationship in England when Jock was serving in the military. This sort of makes the Ray-Lucy relationship of the first few episodes odd, as Ray turns out to be Lucy's 'half-uncle' - and that prior relationsip is never mentioned on later episodes). In any case, it's interesting to watch each character evolve.

David Wayne believably plays Willard "Digger" Barnes, who blames all Evil in the world on Jock Ewing. Keenan Wynn somehow didn't pull that off in later episodes. Ted Shackelford does not play long-lost brother Gary in "Reunion" as some believe (since he played Gary in "Knots Landing).

Here's a few things to do to make it even more interesting: count how many drinks are downed by the charcters in each episode. Start with Episode One and keep a running tally of how many times Bobby punches J.R. Keep a running tally of how many times Cliff gets beat down by J.R. (this one will be more relative in later episodes) or count how many gratuitous breast shots you see ("Dallas" was famous for that one)...the possibilities are endless...If you really get interested in it, purchase one of the "Dallas" compendiums.

As to the technical issues of the DVD set:  I agree with previous reviewers regarding the quality of the film-DVD transfer. I would have expected a digital treatment where the scratches, dust, etc are removed, but this apparently has none. I also would like to point out the audio in many places needs a workover or enhancement. In many interior scenes, the audio has an overpowering, distracting hollowness to it. In many outside scenes, bird noises and cicadas overpower the actor's voices.

I would also have liked commentary from more of the cast members like Patrick Duffy, Victoria Principal, Steve Kanaly, Ken Kercheval, Linda Gray, etc - this set features commentary from Jacobs (series creator), Larry Hagman and Charlene Tilton). More special features like bloopers (if they exist) would be nice.

* Did you know there was also an album released of "Dallas" music and singing cast members?

I rate it 4 stars. I hope the audio/video transfer technical issues are corrected in future season set releases. All in all, it's very entertaining and for less than $40, worth the purchase price. It's a good addition to any DVD collection.