"Fiddler on the Roof" is one of the greatest works for the theater of all time. The story is one of extroidinary importance, and one that has entertained ever since opening on Broadway on September 22, 1964. 
The story, based on the stories of Sholom Aleichem, centers around Tevye, a poor Jewish milkman who lives with his wife and five daughters in czarist Russia in 1905, on the eve of the revolutionary period. They live in their home in the small village of Anatevka. The story is so engrossing, so I will tell no more of the plot, as to not spoil for you the joys of first viewing it yourself.
Tevye, the deeple religious milkman, is played magnificently by Chaim Topol (he is billed only as "Topol"). Before I saw this movie for the first time, I thought it was a mistake for the filmmakers to not have Tevye portrayed by Zero Mostel, who played him in the original Broadway production. I must say, however, that Topol is a marvel as the lovable Tevye. He is a perfect match to the character...his performance is both funny and touching. I laugh every time I see him dance while singing the famous "If I Were A Rich Man". His performance is one for the ages.
The supporting performances are all extroidinary! Norma Crane is very sincere and fabulous as Golde, Tevye's wife. Rosalind Harris (Tzeitel), Michele Marsh (Hodel) and Neva Small (Cheva) are all magnificent as Tevye's three main daughter's. Their performances are all sentimental and heartfelt. Their rendition of "Matchmaker" is priceless. Leonard Frey is also great as Motel, the tailor and one of the girl's love interests. Only, the way he walks and moves can be quite annoying at times. Nevertheless, he sings a great rendition of "Miracles of Miracles".
The songs are all composed by Jerry Bock with lyrics by Sheldon Harnick. Every one of the songs in "Fiddler on the Roof" is incredible. The hysterical "If I Were A Rich Man", one of the sweetest duets of all time "Do You Love Me?" and the haunting, beautifully written "Sunrise, Sunset".
"Fiddler on the Roof" is an incredible story with incredible music. Th estory is very happy at times, but also very sad. I usually never cry at movies, yet several scenes made me teary eyed. Believe me, you will love this American Masterpiece. It is not just one of the greatest musicals ever written, it is one of the best movies of all-time. If you were a rich man, you couldn't buy a better show. (The DVD extras are great, also).
To qoute the New York Post, "'Fiddler on the Roof' is like your grandmother's house: a place to renew old values and get your soul scrubbed out. If you're lucky enough to have it still, be wise enough to visit it often." You'll be glad you did.