Of the four major screen adaptations of Rodgers and Hammerstein's Broadway  classics, I think this is the finest, and probably the truest to its roots,  yet adds Hollywood's special gloss. Luckily, Oscar-winner Yul Brynner was  allowed to re-create his role as the King and Deborah Kerr (although dubbed  by the versatile Marni Nixon) was a fine substitute for the late Gertrude  Lawrence as royal school-marm Anna Leonowens. In an unusual move, Jerome  Robbins was allowed to re-create his original stage choreography (most  notably in the "Small House of Uncle Thomas" ballet) and Jo  Mielziner's opulent stage sets were topped by John DeCuir's sumptuously  designed sound stages. Though well made, "Oklahoma!" didn't take  root on film quite as well (especially in the Agnes de Mille ballet  numbers, which looked so stage-bound on screen), and "Carousel"  and especially the hugely popular "Sound of Music," though  handsomely photographed on location, bogged down in sentiment. Sure,  "The King and I" is a tad schmaltzy too, but fiery Brynner and  feisty Kerr, ably directed by Walter Lang, bring tears that don't taste of  treacle. Alfred Newman's Fox orchestra and chorus were in peak form too.  It's too bad the songs cut from the film version couldn't have been  restored here (mostly likely they were recorded and not unfilmed). But this  remains one of the rock-solid screen adaptations of a beloved classic  Broadway show. Happily, the color on the full CinemaScope 55 image DVD disc  is excellent and the disc includes the Overture, Entr'acte and Exit Music  that would have been heard in the original '50s first-run engagements. The  sound isn't a crisp as the visuals, regrettably, but good considering the  nature of magnetic recording in the mid 1950s. The other DVD bonuses  include a grainy rendering of the 35mm theatrical trailer, quickie bios of  the principal creators, some Fox newsreel highlights of the premiere and  Oscar ceremonies (mostly blantant commercials for Fox performers and  products) and three audio-only replays of tunes from the show billed as a  "Sing Along" (Mitch Miller is nowhere in sight, thank goodness).