I got into the remake and its sequel because I heard, in other movies I watched, references to the first. Then when I was old enough to watch horror movies, and got into the old black-and-white classics, like "DRACULA", "FRANKENSTEIN", "THE WOLF MAN", and "THE INVISIBLE MAN", I decided to give them a try. So I rented them. It took me a while to get used to them, but now, I'm into them and I own them. They're both awesome, but kinda gross. Then after getting into those two, I ended up liking and wanting to own the oringinal two from the 1950's with Vincent Price that started this whole thing about THE FLY. While both of these look kinda fake and boring and may no longer shock or horrorify like they did at the time of their release, they haven't lost the power to fascinate. And I don't find them boring at all.
In the first one, a man named Andre Delambre ( Al "David" Hedison ) is a scientist who's just made a remarkable discovery: Two devices. One of them can transport an object to the next. When he finally gets it right, he sucessfully transports himself. Then he tries to do it again, but doesn't know that a pesky housefly gets in there with him. Now, he's got the enlarged head and arm of a fly and the fly has his shrunken head and arm. Now, his wife, Helene ( Patricia Owens ) is his only hope to get back to normal. 
In the second one, it's 20 to 30 years later and Andre's son, Phillipe ( Brett Halsey ) is a grown man and wants to continue his late father's work. Although his uncle Francois ( Andre's brother from the first, played by Vincent Price ) warns him about the dangers of it, he goes ahead and does it anyway, with the help of his assistant, Alan Hinds ( David Frankham ). Everything seems to be safe and doing well, but Alan is a criminal who plans to steal the secret and sell it to the highest bidder. And when Phillipe finds out, he and Alan get into a fight and Alan traps Phillipe in the device, along with another pesky housefly, and now, Phillipe is just like what his father was. Now, Phillipe goes out to, not just find a way to get back to normal, but to give Alan his come-uppance. 
For the first one, I will give 3 stars. And for the second one, 4 stars. And for this DVD, 4 stars. Just like the one with the remake and its sequel, this double-feature DVD works beautifully, although it doesn't have a special or a commentary by a film historian on both movies. 
The reasons I think the second one is a bit better than the first are: The music score, the storyline, and the villians of the second one. Those are the differences between the first and the second. The villians of the second are an example of how the second one is different than the first. The first one didn't have any villians. Most of it was just romance and drama. 
If you're a big movie buff like I am, I'm sure you'll like these two. I recommend both these movies. They're just as much fun as the remake and its sequel are. See my review of them ( THE FLY / THE FLY 2. ) It's titlied: AVERAGE REMAKE, ABOVE AVERAGE SEQUEL, LIKE THE ORIGINALS.