I had wanted this movie to be made ever since I saw the Alien skull in the trophy case on the Predator ship in the movie Predator Two. That is in fact the genesis of this movie, methinks.

For a movie that was inspired by a single scene in another film, this film was acceptable. The acting was not great, and there are no real famous names in the film but then none are really needed. The dialogue was not all that notable, neither sparking in watchwords or memorable phrases, nor was it over the top or corny. The Fx's were passable, though they did have one overdone Matrix type moment or two. The script was the weakest point, other than some well-used sci-fi cliches like the lost temple/artifact-in-a-remote-vastness'-of-the-world cliche along with the mankind-was-taught-technology-from-extraterrestrials concept. The weakness' of the script was notable on two main points: I do not think that a whaling station abandoned for exactly a century to Antarctica's weather would be that well preserved, and they were able to too readily translate the markings in the temple. Basically, they did not account for the fact that languages change over time, as well just saying that the markings were a polygot of Egyptian, Aztec/Mayan and Cambodian. The only other weak point I noted in the script was the gestation period of the aliens was drastically shorter than of the one that killed Caine in Alien. That weakness, I am told, is explained if you have followed the game, graphic novel, or the comic-books under the same title.

The basic premise is that as their forebears have done for thousands of years, a training class of Predators have come to Earth for the final test before they can join their adult society. The test is, of course, against Aliens, the lost temple being made solely as a prison for a queen that they bring out of cryogenic stasis. Humans are lured there to be hosts and the battle is on....The Predators have a sharp disadvantage because of the humans....

The movie is set in the present day, making it actually take place before Predator Two, its inspiration. The fact that they actually put a date in the film was one of the factors that made me think this is really just a Predator movie that has aliens in it, as opposed to being an equal showing of the two franchises.

Overall, I think the film was moderately entertaining and worth watching once.