I really did not care for the full length movie editions of The Cat in the Hat and How the Grinch Stole Christmas.  And I am a really big Dr Suess fan, so I was really dissapointed by those.  (I'm sorry, but I even thought Cat in the Hat was just outright creepy)  Horton Hears a Who was, okay.

The Lorax I thought was really good [for a kids' movie] heck, even for adults, I found it entertaining - moreso than any of the others.

It has some really great songs; I especially liked the one about greed, how he just kept making money and making money, no matter what the consequences to anything or anyone.  I personally can't see how anyone can truly believe that teaching children that the most valuable thing in this world *might not* be money is a bad thing.

And ~GASP~ how dare we teach children to care about our planet and our environment?!? Seriously?  There has been so much harsh criticism of this movie, and now that I've seen it, I just don't think all that negativity is warranted.
Don't worry, this is not a hard-core indoctrination brain-washing session, it's a fun, hopeful movie that stays very true to the *SPIRIT* of Dr. Suess and his book.  I thought the added story line was very cute and appropriate.  To all of the people who think it "deviated too much from the book," - can you tell me how a good full-length movie could be made from a children's book that is 20 pages long and only has one story line?  (As all good children's books do not typically have sub-plots and secondary story lines.)

My kids said, as we were leaving the theater, "this is our favorite movie this year."  And as far as kids movies go, I agree.  I thought the person who did the voice of the Once-ler was fantastic, then I googled when I got home and saw it was Ed Helms - so great!  I didn't know he was such a talented musician.  I like him even more now.
Two thumbs up!

***UPDATE**  RE: Blu-ray version, purchased in a Blue-ray/DVD combo pack
The Blu-ray version of this movie has several sound spikes, most noticeably one at the end of the Once-ler's "How Bad Can I Be?" song.  I'm not talking about how the songs are always louder than the dialogue, it's a huge, noticeable spike for about 1-2 seconds.  Very sloppy.  I don't mind spending money on movies, we enjoy them, but this sloppy lack of quality really bothers me.