Seems as if the local Wal Mart goofed and put their copies of Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea out a week early.  I should probably have pointed out the error to someone in charge, but in this day and age of political correctness, who am I to create an incident that might shed a poor light on some innocent stock-person and cause him or her embarrassment, perhaps diminish their self worth and potentially inflict some sort of penalty on them.

You guessed it.  I kept my mouth shut and gleefully walked away with my newly purchased treasure.

Now to the review:

As noted in earlier reviews, there are three discs, 4 episodes on side A, 2 on side B, with the 3rd disc containing 4 episodes on side A and the color version of the pilot and other features on side B.  A total of 16 first season episodes, plus the color pilot (which is included in black and white as episode 1 on disc 1, side A).

The picture transfer is fairly good and the sound contains a slight amount of hiss, particularly in the more quiet moments, but not enough to be distracting and the dialogue is crisp enough to be easily understandable.

The splash screens on each disc are rather bland, no motion, no background music and short, but to the point menus.  Flashier would have been nice, but hey, I can live with it, it's the content that matters, right?

As to the rendering values.........  I scanned every episode on the double sided discs and did locate one episode that freezes and sputters for about 3 minutes time and that portion is not viewable.  One glitch found is distressing, yes, but at least it's better than several other double sided DVD's I've purchased in the past, i.e. Emergency and Alfred Hitchcock Presents (multiple problems on several episodes that I didn't discover until well after the 30 day return date - LESSON LEARNED THERE - always check the discs after you purchase them).

The question is, do I take this product back with it's one small imperfection and risk another disc more damaged?  Or am I just unlucky with this set and the others will be mostly okay?  I'm waiting to hear from some others of you on that, please.

All in all, I recommend these discs.  While not perfect in design or production, they are adequate enough to quench my thirst for a "Voyage" into T.V. nostalgia.  The couple of episodes I have been able to completely view were just as much fun as I remembered them to be.