Based on a Harlen Ellison novel, "A Boy and his Dog" is a cult classic that is part dark comedy, and part post-apocalypse sci-fi.  This is one movie where the more time that went by after I finished watching it the more I realized I enjoyed it.  "AB&HD" is set in a post-nuclear wasteland where people wander around attempting to survive in a "Road Warrior" type fashion; but also where pockets of society have sprung up underground in a quasi-dystopia state.

Don Johnson's character ("Vic") wanders the surface...not as part of one of the bands of humans who've ganged up for protection...but rather Vic travels solo, with the exception of his dog who Vic can communicate with via telepathy.  The dog alternates between providing Vic helpful information, and making sarcastic quips- usually at Vic's expense (and often to Vic's consternation).  In addition to protection, one of the services Blood the dog provides is the ability to sniff out human females.  The state of the above-ground world and the "dystopia" society that crops up may or may not be a literal prediction of what is to come after nuclear annihilation. But then again who's to say what type of nutty cults or societies may pop up.

This is one of Don Johnson's earlier movies and one can certainly see rumors of his later characters like Sonny Crockett. In addition to Don Johnson and the voice of Blood the dog played by Tim McIntyre, other fine acting performances in the movie include Susanne Benton and Jason Robards, Jr.

Every viewer can decide for themselves how seriously to take this movie (but after all, it's about a talking dog...). Overall, this movie may not be for today's average movie-fan, but it's definitely enjoyable if you like cult classics and 60-80's "B-type" sci-fi's.  (warning- mild spoiler) As the movie progresses, no overt explanation is given as to why or how Don Johnson's character can communicate with the dog...whether Blood obtained this ability as part of the holocaust or whether there is something special about Vic, or whether Vic is just crazy and Blood's just a regular dog.  I personally think this adds to the humor that they don't bother trying to explain it..