First off, I must say this:: THIS MOVIE ONLY MAKES SENSE TO YOU IF YOU'VE WATCHED ALL 39 TV EPISODES BEFORE YOU WATCH THE MOVIE!!!  
Like any David Lynch or Stanley Kubrick movie, it's a "new wave" way of storytelling.  A lot of parables, allegories, references, and visual imagery to help you understand what they are trying to say. 
I can't stress that enough.  This movie is an OAV, which explains answers to questions that were left unexplained to the viewer in the TV series.  So by not finishing the TV series, you are short changing yourself.  It's like never finishing Charles Dickens "A tale of two cities" and be expected to understand a movie on it that only shows the highpoints of the storyline.  
Unlike most Japanese anime where things are not explained, this is explained, only if you watch the entire 39 episodes and the movie.  This is NOT an anime movie to watch without thinking. 
Utena is a series where one must spend time to dissect the story, the motives and actions of each character, and how they interact with each other.  The relationships are of utmost importance. Therefore, this is NOT MINDLESS ENTERTAINMENT. But a show that is full of imagery, nouvelle vague film techniques, and  philosophy about how to live.  
The TV series is about how one grows out of childhood fantasies into adulthood, and the movie expands on that by concentrating on the "growing into adulthood" transformation part.  And as such, one must always watch it with an understanding of your own childhood, all the joys and pains of growing up, sufferings and triumphs, attitudes and changes, all that is incorporated into this TV series and movie.  
If you truly want to understand this movie, take the time to review the TV episodes that you didn't understand, and rewatch them and redissect until you have your answer.  Switch viewing between the TV series and the movie is recommended until you have the storyline down.  
The more you watch, the more understanding you will get.  The more you see the various nuances that makes this anime, not just a simple straightforward story, but one that's also poetic and illustrous.  Like all great classics, as your life experiences increase, you will discover even more truths in this movie/series.  
For those who don't know, there are fansubs (fans who subtitled the TV series) available out there that you can get.
I highly recommend this movie. In conjunction with the TV series. 
May you have revelation and inspiration -- then the duel called "revolution" has begun in your life.