"Diamonds are Forever" qualifies as perhaps the most unusual and odd James Bond movie of them all. For this reason alone, it should be in your collection.
Sean Connery comes back for the "last" (see "Never Say Never Again") time as 007, chasing down Ernst Stavro Blofeld and his plot to use diamonds in his construction of a laser satellite capable of destroying any target. This conventional-sounding description actually lends no justice to the film. Connery is a particularly brutal (especially in the startling pre-title sequence) and abrasive 007 this time around, and he looks rather haggard at times to boot -- but then this makes the 007 character much more human and adds a sinister aspect that makes the portrayal more fascinating. Blofeld is portrayed by Charles Gray (the criminologist from the Rocky Horror Picture Show), who instead of the staid robotic diction of Joseph Wiseman opts for a smarmy, smug portrayal, grinning, cunning and lethal -- most irregular, but quite effective and entertaining. There's really just one Bond girl here (Jill St. John, at turns irritating) -- unless you count murderous vixens Bambi and Thumber, but James prefers to drown them rather than seduce them. However, the best characters are the lethal gay killers Mr. Wint (Bruce Glover) and Mr. Kidd (Putter Smith), who engage in their deadly art of eliminating all in Blofeld's way with panache, style and grim black humour. Their unsettling presence gives a real touch of menace to the movie that makes it luridly attractive.
The entire feel of the film is weird and hazy, which jibes well with the movie's date of release, especially from Maurice Binder's soft focus title sequence and throughout John Barry's haunting score (especially the somber, silvery sax tones of the Wint and Kidd theme, which will echo in your head endlessly), enhanced by the Vegas locale. Alas, the end of the movie becomes somewhat more conventional as Blofeld's plot is discovered and reliably countered, but it's certainly no worse for it.
In the annals of Bond movies, this is quirky, irregular and fascinating in its oddity. You'll enjoy it.