The Living Daylights is one of the best bond movies of the last twenty years. The Living Daylights is an excellent film with an interesting plot, and excellent stunts.  Timothy Dalton does an excellent job playing a more serious Bond, and the movie is a more traditional, Connery type Bond movie.  I recommend this movie for any Bond fan, but would caution casual fans to see the movie before purchasing it, as it seems to be an acquired taste for some folks.
The movie does have two flaws.  First, the movie is aobut 15 minutes too long.  Every time I watch the movie I enjoy it, but get a little restless over the last few minutes.  
The second potential flaw is that the plot can be a bit tough to follow.  The plot (without giving too much away) finds James Bond trying to stop an apparent plot by a Russian General to assassinate British secret agents in the hopes of starting a war. Other plot elements include the defection of a high ranking Russian army officer, weapons and drug smuggling, and the Afghanistan-Russian war. All these elements are brought together to form a trickier plot than in most Bond films, which is a good thing in my opinion, but still can be somewhat confusing.
The stunt scenes are also excellent and include parachuting onto the Rock of Gibraltar, a great car chase scene with a "loaded" Aston Martin, and a fantastic fight scene outside of a cargo plane (plus about 5 other stunts I don't have time to mention). 
Another nice change in this film is a legitimate love affair between James Bond and Kara Milovy (Maryam D'Abo, who is adequate) which is sweet and even romantic. As for the new Bond actor in this film, Timothy Dalton portrays Bond more seriously than Roger Moore and is much more believable as a secret agent than the 50-something Moore. He brings an edge to the character that had not been scene since Sean Connery. The fact that Bond is more believable (not so cartoonish) makes the film more tense and suspensful than most of Roger Moore's later efforts. All in all The Living Daylights is a very solid movie and one of the best Bond films in recent memory (due in part to the weak competition of horrible films such as Octopussy and Moonraker). I would definately recommend The Living Daylights on DVD to any Bond fan as it has been wonderfully remastered with lots of special features (the Documentary on the search for the "new" Bond actor is great) and looks as good as new on-screen.