Maggie Fitzgerald (Hillary Swank) is a thirty-something, down-on-her-luck waitress from Missouri whose deepest desire is to become a professional boxer.  Frankie Dunn (Clint Eastwood) is an old, disgruntled trainer whose caution has led him to lose his biggest client.  One day, Maggie enters Frankie's gym, pays her membership fee for six months, and begins quietly working on a punching bag in the corner.  Every day, she asks Frankie to train her...and every day, he refuses.  His excuse?  "I don't train girls."  But then one day, with an Oscar-worthy monologue, Maggie convinces Frankie, and he begins to actively train her, despite her age, despite her weight, despite her femaleness.  Maggie and Frankie embark on a whirlwind tour of the world, seen through the boxing rings of many foreign countries where Maggie consistently KOs her opponents in the first round.  Maggie Fitzgerald, self-proclaimed "white trash" from Missouri, gets glory; she gets fame; she gets to live her dream.  But dreams don't last forever...And one day, everything Maggie worked so hard for is taken away.

I'm surprised I can even articulate myself enough to write a review of this film.  It's one of those films you watch, and by the end you're so emotionally drained that all you can really say is, "Wow."  MILLION DOLLAR BABY is worthy of every Oscar it received.  This is Clint Eastwood at his best, both as an actor and as a director.  It's amazing to watch Frankie's layers melt away throughout the course of the movie:  At first, he's rough, almost Dirty Harry-ish, but gradually, as his relationship with Maggie progresses, he's revealed to be a deeply sensitive man who cares for Maggie like a daughter.  We learn about his past:  that he's gone to church every day for the past 23 years; that he writes to his daughter each week, only to have every letter returned to him unopened; that he lets Eddie Dupris (Morgan Freeman), former boxer and friend, live in his gym free of charge; that he blames himself for anything that goes wrong in the ring.  Eastwood is brilliant and is backed up by a remarkable cast:  Swank literally glows as the boxer Maggie, and Freeman, as narrator, is soft-spoken and straightforward in his portrayal of Eddie.

And the ending...well, the ending is so spot-on, so incredibly real and true to the film, that it's absolutely heartwrenching.  Eastwood's score is understated and simple and absolutely perfectly rendered to convey the emotion of the film.  MILLION DOLLAR BABY is one of those rare films that manages to be both dramatic and playful, both emotionally draining and hopeful.  It is brilliant, poignant, honest, naked...and this film has heart.  Even if you don't like boxing, even if you're hoping for a ROCKY-esque film, you won't be disappointed in MILLION DOLLAR BABY.