Summerslam has been well known for being an outstanding event with quality matches and storylines. This one is no different. This PPV is right in the middle of the WWE/Alliance feud and is host to a double main event with Stone Cold defending his WWE Heavyweight Championship against rising star Kurt Angle in a killer battle, and The Rock tries to win WCW gold on defending champion Booker T in a suspense filled brawl. There is lots of good stuff on the undercard too, making the event worth the time and bother. I will run through the matches and rate each one out of five (...):
WWE Intercontinental Championship - Lance Storm vs. Edge: A blinding battle as Edge and Lance Storm do a great job of pumping up the crowd in a high energy opener. Excellent grappling and fast paced false finishes call for a brilliant brawl between two of the finest wrestlers in the WWE today. ...
Test and the Dudley Boyz vs. The APA and Spike Dudley (with Molly Holly): Decent enough outing, that exceeds most peoples expections. Some good action throughout and some nice spots leading up to the finish. What was not so hot was the screwjob finish though. **1/2
WWE Light Heavy Weight and WCW Cruiserweight Championship Unification Match - X-Pac vs. Tajiri: Not bad at all with some nice kicks by both men. Lots of false finishes and good counters also. Very enjoyable battle, where not a classic, is still very good and solid throughout. ...1/4
Rhyno (with Stephanie McMahon) vs. Chris Jericho: Fair match, but is marred by lots of botched spots, as Jericho slips of the ropes several times. Still, some good action and lots of excitement lead up to a great ending, but this is somehwhat dissapointing with all the missed spots. ...P>WWE Hardcore Championship Ladder Match - Jeff Hardy vs. Rob Van Dam: Solid, if again not dissapointing clash between the two highflyers. Still a very good match by normal accounts though, as there are lots of rough ladder spots. Some missed spots aside however, another solid effort, with plenty of crowd participation. ***/3/4
WWE and WCW Tag Team Championship Unification Cage Match - The Undertaker and Kane vs. DDP and Kanyon: Awful match between the two teams, which thankfully ends a disturbing storyline. Sloppy and boring, this has the honour of worst match of the night. I did not enjoy it at all. *1/4
WWE Championship - Kurt Angle vs. Stone Cold: To sum it up in one word - fantastic. Compelling action and suspense all the way and they scorch up the heat in a blood filled brawl. Best match on the card by a wide margin, definately worth getting the tape just to see this. Good, good, good match. ****3/4
WCW Championship - The Rock vs. Booker T: Good stuff here, but this match was fairly short and did not really have much time to develop. Still, excellent effort by both men and another good match in a series tonight. Not a patch on the battle beforehand, but then again, that was a match of the year candidate. ****
Overall, a excellent event. It starts off hot with a scorching opener, and finishes with two fantastic outings. With a solid card in between, you have a near perfect event. It gets four stars, as opposed to five as there are a few minor glitches to be found, such as the cage match and the slip ups in the Rhyno/Jericho. But overall, one of the best Summerslams in recent history. If you want an event even better than this (which must mean its good) go and dig up Summerslam 2000, which gets the perfect score of five stars in my opinion. But this is without a doubt worth a look.
Overall Score - Four Stars (...). Go and buy now!