I'll just start by saying that this was the most fun I've had watching a movie in a long time. I laughed, I sang along with the songs, and just had a blast.

I thought everyone, especially Tom Cruise, did a great job in this film. I never would have guessed that Tom could sing so well!  He has a really nice rock voice (who knew!) I also, to my shock, thought he was rather sexy!

I was never a huge fan of Cruise, I never hated him as an actor but he just never really blew me away before. Now I have to say he really shocked me in this film! This is one of the best performances I've seen from him in a long long time, and is really the first time I completely forgot I was watching Tom Cruise, all I saw was Stacee Jaxx!

So bravo Tom!

There are a few things you have to keep in mind when watching this film:

1) It's a musical, and a jukebox musical to boot. If you can't buy the idea of people randomly bursting into song, you won't like the film.

2) Yes, it's got Tom Cruise playing a rock star, not everyone likes Tom Cruise, and if you can't get over the idea of him on stage singing "Pour Some Sugar On Me" then you might want to stay away. However I would encourage you to give him a chance because he does a really really great job.

3) It has 80's Rock songs, you HAVE to like this type of music to like this film, period. I was just a toddler in the 80's but my parents always played these songs while I was growing up so I have a deep fondness for the music.

And lastly this is NOT a film to be taken seriously, it's a movie about crazy 80's music. Yes the plot is paper thin (boy meets girl, fall in love, break up over misunderstanding, get back together again) but it's NOT the plot that drives this movie.

Nor is it the character development, the actors are all purposely hamming it up for laughs. And personally I find this refreshing. Way too many flims nowadays take themselves too seriously, and we audience members tend to take movies way too seriously. We forget they are meant for entertainment, sometimes you just want to have FUN and that is what this movie really is...FUN.

But you have to like the MUSIC because the music is really what drives the film and holds it all together. If you don't like 80's Rock, stay away from this because the music IS the movie.

When you go to a rock concert are you going to analyze?  No, you're going to have fun and that's how you have to approach this movie. So let your hair down, turn your brain on neutral, grab yourself a popcorn and a beer and make sure you crank the volume all the way up!

This movie is 'nothin' but a good time' and that's what I had watching it.

A rocking good time!