When I first heard that they were making a sequel to the 1987 hit "The Lost Boys," I was floored. Why would they do such a dumb thing? I wondered. Supposedly, a script for a sequel floated around Hollywood for years before it finally fell through, and after watching "Lost Boys: The Tribe," I see why the legitimate Hollywood gave up on it.

Forget the fact that there isn't one single original idea in the script. Forget that, even after 21 years, the special effects in the original film are far better than "Tribe." Forget that there is a lot more nudity, gore, and foul language in "Tribe" than there ever was in the original. Forget all of that. This film is just plain bad. It sucks, if you'll pardon the pun.

If you have seen "The Lost Boys," then you've pretty much seen a vastly superior version of "Lost Boys: The Tribe." In my opinion, a great horror movie must have several things...a really good script, characters you actually care about, superb actors to bring those characters to life, some humor, and decent special effects. "The Lost Boys" had all of that, and more, whereas "Lost Boys: The Tribe," only wishes it had 1/10th of what its predecessor had.

The story is the same...siblings move to a crappy little coastal town where the missing person population is staggering and jobs are hard to come by. This time, it's Chris & Nicole Emerson (any relation to Mike & Sam from the first film? Apparently, the writers were too lazy to come up with a different last name.) Their parents are dead (instead of divorced, as in the first film; Mike & Sam show up at Grandpa's house with mom,) so they are forced to rent a house owned by their aunt.

They go to a party. Nicole (Autumn Reeser) catches the eye of obvious head vampire Shane (Angus Sutherland, who definitely does NOT have brother Kiefer's talent at all.) She drinks from a flask, which obviously has more than booze in it, and voila! She becomes a half-vampire, much to the shock and dismay of her brother, Chris (Tad Hilgenbrink.) Enter Corey Feldman as Edgar Frog, the only returning original cast member that has any decent screen time. He's still getting ideas from the comic books, slaying vampires, and is still a complete weirdo. Feldman is LONG past his prime here. What worked for him as a teenager definitely does not work in his mid-30s. His character, who makes it clear that he lost a loved one to the vamps a while ago, should be more darker, and have more of an edge. The childish, home-made gadgets should be left behind, but they're still in use. I would have liked to see Jamison Newlander reprise his role as Allen Frog, because that may have made the film slightly more tolerable, but instead, we only see him in the 2 alternate endings that are included on the DVD. Don't get me started on Corey Haim showing up as a vampire during the end credits. That made no sense at all, and the 2 alternate endings he's in (as a human) make no sense. It was nice to see them on screen together, but Haim is not the cute kid he once was, and Feldman just looks pissed that he's even there to begin with.

As far as the other vampires go, they were all annoying, obnoxious adrenaline junkies (think "Point Break" meets "The Lost Boys," & you'll get the idea.) They surf, skate, ride motorcycles, and take great joy in stabbing each other for fun. They videotape their kills, and go "whoooooo hooooooo" a lot. They are nowhere near as evil or menacing as the original 4 vamps from the first film (Kiefer Sutherland, Alex Winter, Brooke McCarter, & Billy Wirth.) Kiefer Sutherland, as nice a man as he may be, has the most evil, menacing face and voice that I've ever seen & heard on film, and he was absolutely perfect in the original. He really should give his brother, Angus, some serious acting lessons. Apparently, the filmmakers thought that casting a Sutherland boy would give the film an air of credibility, which, sad to say, it did not. Kiefer's David in the first film had an evil, menacing seductiveness about him, whereas Angus' Shane only has plain seductiveness, without any real evil or menace, and even the seductiveness isn't that convincing.

The amount of gore, nudity, & unnecessary foul language in the film is substantial, as well as the serious lack of creativity (in one scene, dialogue from the first film is recited, word for word; it's Edgar talking about the various ways a vampire will "buy it...it's never a pretty sight. Some yell & scream, some go quietly. Some explode, some implode. But all will try to take you with them.") I was flabbergasted. It's one thing to recite a famous line, like Bruce Willis does in the "Die Hard" films ("Yippee-ki-ay, motherf***er,) but to recite dialogue, verbatim, from an earlier film...it only goes to prove how hard "Tribe" tries to be like the original "Lost Boys."  They even went so far as to put the tag line from the original film in as dialogue. All I could do is shake my head in amazement. What little humor it has seems forced, as well.

I must say, however, that I did chuckle a couple of times at some of the fresh one-liners. I already forgot what they were, but they were funny. And most important, they weren't ripped right out of the original film. I also like the remix of "Cry Little Sister," Gerard McMann's theme to "The Lost Boys." The video for this remix is included on the DVD, although it's not on the official soundtrack to "Tribe." There is another cover of "Cry Little Sister" (done by another band) that is on the soundtrack, though; you can hear it when you're at the main menu.

Also, I must say this about the Coreys. They are more than their past mistakes. If Hollywood were as forgiving back in the 80's as it is today, I feel they would still have very strong careers. They are both very talented actors; all one has to do is watch films like "Stand By Me," "Lucas," "Silver Bullet," or "The Goonies" to see that. Hopefully, they will both realize that what worked for them when they were younger won't work for them today. They don't have to be a Hollywood joke or stuck in an A&E reality show for the rest of their lives. Even though my teenage crush on both of them ended years ago, I still like them as actors. They just need better parts (and, apparently, better agents.)

"The Lost Boys" had a great story, a strong cast, characters I actually gave a crap about, just the right amount of humor, and great special effects for its time. "Lost Boys: The Tribe" tries in vain to be all of these things, but it only achieves one thing...being a truly disappointing and forgettable piece of trash that deservedly went straight to video. The magic that was "The Lost Boys" was left back in 1987, and even though this film tries in vain to recapture that magic with nearly identical characters, storylines, and a "stunned-look" ending, it only succeeds in gloriously failing to do so. Perhaps the makers knew all along that it would be a failure that never should have happened. Now, I must cleanse myself of the memories of this film. I'm going to watch "The Lost Boys." 100 viewings should do it.