Okay, for starters, ignore both of the 'star' reviewers.

The Shining is not availible in wide screen, because it was not filmed in wide screen.  Neither were Eyes Wide Shut or Full Metal Jacket.  When they are shown wide screen in theatres, the top and bottom have been truncated.

And as if it has not been stated enough, this movie doesn't follow the book.  Everyone always states that as if it is so surprising.  There is a great story about Kubrick calling up Stephen King at 3 am and asking him 'Do you believe in God' and when King said yes, Kubrick said 'I thought so' and hung up.

Why is this significant?  Every change that Kubrick made was to totally remove the religious conscience that hides behind the words in the book.  Kubrick presents us with an entirely atheistic and amoral film where Jack Torrence never comes around to save his son's life, and in his typical manner he heavily deletes details to make the story ambigious.  He also down plays the supernatural element (for example, instead of having hedge animals come to life, (which is sort of stupid) he instead has Jack chase Danny through a hedge maze.  It sounds at first as if it wouldn't be as interesting, but it is a very effective scene)  I do not recommend ever reading any of the books that Kubrick based his films on; just like with Hitchcock, he was very good at taking a hack writer and producing a great film from it.  (Verdi excelled at this also, only not films)  Also it is to your best interest to laugh a lot when you watch this film.  It is one of the funniest movies ever, and if you don't appreciate the humor, you'll never be scrared of the film.  (The scene in the car, where Jack tells Danny that he should have eaten his breakfast is an absolute classic)  Also, unlike every other horror movie in the world, this one gets scarier the more you watch it.

As for the comments about the removal of material from the book explaining the images, see 2001 A Space Odyssey.  Kubrick enjoyed finishing his films, and then drastically cutting them.  We are accustomed to having every detail explained to us, and Kubrick doesn't do that.  He doesn't feel it's necessary to make us understand how and why all of these things happen.  An interesting note: the average ratio of film shot to film kept for a film is about 1:5 to 1:10.  For the shining it was something like 1:250... meaning for every 250 reels of film Kubrick shot, he kept one.  Realize that when you watch it; every single shot is exactly as he wanted it.  Also, in the words of Stephen King, Kubrick liked to make films that hurt people--it's a very good observation