I loved this movie! I rented this movie last week and was very pleased. I am a Meg Ryan fan and definitely became a fan of Hugh Jackman! I went right out and bought the DVD that weekend. I watched the Original version and the Director's Cut. The Director's Cut is definitely better. It adds more history to Kate's character and helps the story flow more smoothly. The character of Leopold, Duke of Albany is excellently played by Hugh Jackman. Meg Ryan was her same cutsy self with a layered mop hairdo. However, this wasn't one of her best movies. Liev Schreiber and Breckin Meyers were also excellent in their roles. Breckin was really funny when his character "Charlie" was "in the zone" with his favorite girl and his replaying of Leopold's conversation about the Louvre. I think that is when Leopold realizes that he is falling for Kate. I love the scene where Leopold is sitting next to Kate in the restaurant and corrects J.J. on the location of his English home, the opera's characters and his view of J.J.'s trying to seduce Kate. My favorite scenes were Leopold's rescuing of Kate at Central Park; the rooftop dinner and dancing; the following morning when he made breakfast and the dishwasher lesson; the finding of his uncle's house; the evening listening to the soundtrack of "Breakfast at Tiffany's" and his tucking in and snuggling with Kate. Did you notice when Leopold called Kate "Your Grace"? I particulary like the part where Kate realized that she really loved Leopold and was willing to take that "leap of faith" off the Brooklyn Bridge to be with Leopold, because it meant that she was willing to leave her family and career to find love and happiness with somebody that treated her with love and respect. Who in their right mind would turn away from that? (I certainly didn't when I moved from CA to NJ to be with the man I loved.) I wish that when Kate and Leopold were dancing after Leopold announced his bride, the script could have gone further with the culture shocks that Kate would have experienced in the late 1800's. Then of course, that's the perfect excuse for a sequel! Overall, this movie was lovely and it became one of my favorite movies. I am sure that I will watch this many times over. This movie makes you want to travel time to find your own duke!