I have attended Tom Brown Jr.'s classes and workshops.  This movie has very little to do with the life of Tom Brown.  Tommy Lee Jones' character is based on one facet of Brown's life as a tracker/consultant to the FBI and other law enforcement agencies.  I am sure Brown has had to track cunning criminals over the years, but that is where the similarity to Brown ends.  The film does showcase some of the Apache Native American survival and tracking skills that were handed down by Grandfather to Brown.  It is viewing these that gives the movie its only redeeming quality.
The survival knife that is featured prominently as a separate character was designed by Brown and used as an extension of himself.  That it has been reduced from a sacred tool to a cold blooded hacking and butchering weapon brought Brown to tears at one of the workshops I attended.  Working as a consultant to the film, he had no idea that William Friedkin would pervert everything that Brown represented for selfish Hollywood purposes.
As cinematic art, this film has to be one of the worst movies ever made.  There is almost no plot, no dialogue, no character development.  The killing is completely senseless and butts directly against the reverence for life and spiritual aspects of survival living that Tom Brown teaches on an equal footing with the skills.  The urban and natural camouflage scenes that Brown no doubt orchestrated are a treat; but on the flip side, they had to be toned down so that Del Toro is not completely invisible to the camera, as would have been the case with an actual Apache scout.
Additionally, the timing of events is totally out of whack, which makes the movie even more difficult to sympathise with.  It takes away from the thrill to realize that a scout in the wild could smith Brown's knife with nothing but a rusty leaf spring, if this scout is at the same time hypothermic, injured, exhausted, and simultaneously has set up a crushing bear trap, spun a 100 foot rope, set a snare to dangle Jones over a waterfall, and then is in two places at once.  Each single event, which to the uninitiated is inconceivable in itself, becomes completely unbelievable when they all occur within the time frame of only an afternoon.  Which is too bad, because the amazing thing is that Tom Brown, Grandfather, and the Apache scouts could actually do these things.  
Read Tom Brown Jr's books to find out how.