This was a quite a feat of filmmaking. It had beautiful art direction and stunning visuals. Milla Jovovitch was wonderful - not only for her amazing abilities with a sword, but for her excellent, unique acting abilities where rich emotions swim under a cool exterior - part of Milla's trademark style but delivered here with absolute precision and total humanity. William Fichtner also has a great but understated role in this as a scientist living in a mobile trailer that expands into a voluminous laboratory due to the 'flat space' technology of the times, another fantastic metaphor extended throughout the movie with incredible beauty and humor. Milla has a lot of cool things to say about this (and the architecture) in the films commentary section. The film is visually the most elegant and stunning I have seen, largely due to the crispness of execution and the subtle intelligence of art design and choreography utilized throughout - the scenery and style of the movie are a "vision" - and the actors seamlessly make themselves part of this world. It is a very graceful yet cutting movie that packs quite a graphic punch but is also willing to explore great storytelling and is often highly poetic in dialogue and theme - half the story is interwoven in the visual narrative -  so if you are not careful, some of the delicate nuances of this film can fly straight over your head. Do not underestimate this film or the story! Its sparseness of design and execution are part of what makes it wonderful. As an artist or photographer I think one could appreciate how every still from this film would make an attractive canvas or print. Visually it is just superb! The DVD has some very interesting special features about the filming locations etc...

All in all -  riveting plot for a sci-fi - full of depth and humor and cool ideas. The story line was rich and sharply executed, not laden down by excess and useless dialogue like so many films - instead it has minimalist yet powerful and understated dialogue where every word counts (like a haiku). This movie is light and graceful yet full of substance, and the fight scenes were awesome! If you don't "get" this movie, don't write it off - watch it again and come around!