I wish I could say season 9 was the best of the X-Files, but sadly it was not.  Was it the worst?  By far no.  Hindsight is 20/20 and there was a great deal CC &amp; FOX could have done to save this series, but alas they did not.
If you simply watched The X-Files because of David Duchovny then you will not enjoy season 9 - if you're open minded, then give this season a chance.  Sure there are episodes that were lacking, but every season had an episode or two that was lacking.
Robert Patrick did a fine job and while Annabeth Gish tried her best, she wasn't as strong as Patrick, but then again she wasn't given very much to work with.  She and Patrick worked very well together and I would have loved to have seen their partnership/friendship explored more thoroughly.  Many feel their romance was forced or rushed and that may have been the case, but CC knew the show was ending and I think he decided to throw the DRR fans a bone.  I must admit I grew to dislike Scully's character and her incessant whining about her son.  The pregnancy storyline in season 8 and subsequently the introduction to William in season 9 was a big mistake and dumbed down Scully in my opinion.  Truth be told Gillian Anderson wanted off the show and it was evident in her acting.  FOX should have let her out of her contract and bid her farewell and focused on the Doggett &amp; Reyes characters.
Some of the strong episodes were Hellbound, 4D, John Doe, Audrey Pauley &amp; Release.  The bonus material is very interesting and worth a view as well.
For a show that was meant to open your mind, many fans chose to close their minds and abandon the show after Duchovny left.  I was sad at his departure, but understood his reasons and wished him well in his new endeavors.  I don't feel many fans gave this season a fair shot and reading through many of the reviews that's evident.  Give it a shot, you won't be disappointed and it's a hell of a lot better than "Reality TV."  If you can't see spending the money on the DVD set then rent it at Blockbuster - it's worth it.