i saw the wanderers at an old theatre in my hometown in 1979, 5 years after reading richard price's book version and i thought it was one of the best movies ide seen since'the lords of flatbush' 5 years earlier.
though not following the book version to closely,it still brought the book to vibrant life with all its stunning characters and violent yet heart felt situations.
'the wanderers' leader ritchie gennaro,best buddy joey capra,fellow wanderer buddy borsalino &amp; hulking new wanderer perry lagaudia,played with crotch tugging zest by ken wahl,john friedrich,jim youngs and tony ganios respectively are excellent.
while there girlfriends,despie galasso &amp; nina becker,played seductively by toni kalem and karen allen,are completely beautiful,while the tiny pee-wee,played with swaggering street smarts by linda manz,as the fordham baldies resident deb,is fantastic.
the gangs,'the wanderers','the fordham baldies','the wongs','the del bombers','the ducky boys',look great in their various gang regalia,from the wanderers gold satin jackets,to the fordham baldies obvious baldness,to the ducky boys sawed off runt look of grey and dirty clothes,they loook authentic as well as luridly dreamlike.
erland van lidthe dejaude,as terror the oversized leader of the fordham baldies is a standout and let us not forget alan rosenberg as the sicophant like turkey zukinni who ditched the wanderers for the fordham baldies ans screwed over his friends,is also amazing.
ken wahl shows a 50's teen idol appeal,while tony ganios does a fair stallonne rip-off as the ape with a heart of gold perry and toni kalem as despie the mob boss daughter puts in a stunning performence.
the opening sequence of the baldies chasing the wanderers through the back alleys of the south bronx,where there finally stomped royally and single handedly by the gigantic dimwitted robin hood like perry,is by far one of my favorites.
the soundtrack oozes cool and its a movie for anyone who recalls the good old days of tight chino slacks,greasey pompadores,girls wearing nylon hose w/t garters,push-up bras,black leather jackets,slick d.a's,do-wop,dion,big finned cars,bee-hive hair do's,cruizin' chicks,gang rumbles,turned up collars, they should definately enjoy this truelly wonderful movie.
enjoy fellow greasers,its a gassss!!!!