When this movie was released in 1978, I thought it was one of the best that I had seen. Even by current 2002 standards I still rate it very high. The special effects, action and overall look and feel of the combat scenes is very realistic. This is true even in the wake of newer films such as "Saving Private Ryan" and "Blackhawk Down". The subject matter was interesting too. The movie was made during a period when wars were being fought all over Africa in such places as Angola, Chad, Rhodesia, Mozambique, Uganda and South Africa. The Soviet Union and its lackeys were still a menace to the free world. Hence the presence of Cuban and East German advisors among the dreaded "Simba" (Lion) Battalion in the movie. This was the case in real life in Angola after 1976 when the communist forces gained the upper hand. Further east in Uganda, African dictator Idi Amin gained notoriety after the famous rescue of Israeli and French hostages at Entebbe Airport by Israeli Commandos. Amin was infamous for the brutality of his rule. His best unit was coincidently called the Simba Battalion. The Wild Geese is set in a fictional African nation that was a composite of several that existed at that time. Fifty British and South African mercenaries led by Richard Burton, Richard Harris and Roger Moore are hired to rescue Julius Limbani (the rightful leader of this African country) from imprisonment by an African dictator. The mercenaries end up being double crossed by their employer and must fight their way to freedom dragging Limbani along the way. Most, including Harris, are killed before escaping. Burton, Moore and a handful of men barely manage to fly out in an old DC-3 Dakota transport plane while hundreds of Simbas overrun the airstrip. Limbani dies on the plane before reaching the safety of Rhodesia. Burton and Moore slip back to England and take revenge on their former employer after getting most of the money owed to them and their men. Please release "The Wild Geese" on DVD.
It appears that a new movie - "Tears of the Sun", set to be in theaters..., follows a similar plot. Bruce Willis leads a U.S. Navy SEAL team to rescue an American missionary in Nigeria. The original plan to extract them by helicopter is aborted, after which the SEALS escort the missionary and refugees toward the border through jungle covered hills teeming with 5,000 rebel troops pursuing a political figure who happens to be one of the refugees in their group. ..