...to a pinnacle of achievement.  It's hard to describe Buffy the Vampire Slayer's transition from the first season, which establishes a solid framework for a really good TV show, to the second, which knocks the framework down and transcends to TV greatness.
Buffy, for those who were fooled by the show's name at the time, was one of the brightest points in the rather dismal history of television writing.  It was smart, witty, fun, dramatic, intoxicating, and entirely accessible - a combination that is almost unbeatable.  The second season picked up where the first left off with a vengeance.
"When She Was Bad" gets pretty far into establishing that circumstances aren't going to be the same this year as they were last; Buffy was going to be able to change and grow, which is pretty remarkable for a TV character to begin with.  It stumbled a little at "Some Assembly Required," but the subsequent "School Hard" introduced Spike and Drusilla.  Spike would be perhaps the show's most loveable villain, but he still earned his fangs.  Even down episodes like "Inca Mummy Girl" and "Reptile Boy" were still great writing and character advancement.
It turned around, though, with "Halloween" - bringing in another solid villain in Ethan Rayne and playing with all-new rules.  "Lie To Me" is a brilliant commentary on real-world "vampire" thought.  Then "The Dark Age" hit and the character revelations started to truly come clear.  Giles' past was a revelation that we then thought couldn't be topped.
"What's My Line?," the first Buffy two-parter, introduces what a "normal" slayer is like in the gradually likeable character of Kendra, and also finally lets Spike and Dru play big bad for a while.  "Ted" is a brilliant, relatively unconnected episode that brings out a lot of psychological factors.  Even another lesser episode like "Bad Eggs" is pretty close to the best that a lot of TV shows can offer.
Then "Surprise" hit with a brutal punch.  The Buffy / Angel relationship is finally consummated, and Angel loses his soul - bringing his character to a completely new level, and indeed elevating the show a lot higher.  "Innocence" brings Buffy into conflict with Angelus, and he begins to show why he will rank high among Buffy's villains of all time.  "Phases" brings the weirdness home in a different light than before, and "Bewitched, Bothered, and Bewildered" is a masterful Valentine's Day episode that brings out a lot of great stuff about the odd Xander / Cordelia relationship.
"Passion" follows up strongly on the dare set by "Surprise" by killing off a major, likeable character.  "Killed By Death" is a genuinely creepy, disturbing horror episode.  "I Only Have Eyes for You" is more so, and brings out even more wrinkles in what is going on with Buffy and Angelus.  "Go Fish" is another one of those good episodes in the midst of absolutely brilliant episodes; by itself, it's pretty good, and it does do a lot for characters even if it's not up to the brilliance surrounding it.
"Becoming" shows Buffy taken to her final extreme, in many ways the ultimate test for her, and its ending is an amazing Pyrrhic victory.  To kill Jenny Calendar was one thing; killing Angel took real guts.  It is the kind of season finale that would really set Buffy apart from everything else on television at the time.
Buffy took the high school metaphors to a really higher level in this season; the ultimate of these was Angel / Angelus.  The relationship between Buffy and Angel was built so well, so sweetly, so entrancingly, that the betrayal was a real shock.  It is perhaps the show's ultimate achievement that it really changed things in this midseason; characters went beyond surprisingly two-dimensional and into bewilderingly three-dimensional.  And it would only get better the next season.
Through it all, Sarah Michelle Gellar was the glue that held the show's disparate elements together.  She could be happy, or serious, or fun, or brooding, or lovey-dovey, or heartbroken, all with a tender genuineness.  She gets to run the gamut of emotions, and proves that she can pull anything and everything off in the course of the season.  "Becoming" is some of her best work.  Ever.  The pain in that two-parter is real and affecting.
The rest of the cast backs her up with style.  David Boreanaz manages both the dark, brooding Angel that we know and love, and the hateful, cynical Angelus with a contrast that is entirely believable and totally real on screen.  You *know* that his character has changed.  The tension between Nicholas Brandon (Xander) and Alyson Hannigan (Willow) is downplayed after a few episodes, but very real throughout.  Their relationships with Oz (Seth Green) and Cordelia (Charisma Carpenter), respectively, are also masterfully written.  Anthony Head - a great actor to begin with - gets to add about a hundred interesting layers to his stereotypically British character in this single episode.  In the secondary parts, James Marsters (Spike), Juliet Landau (Drusilla), and Robia LaMorte (Jenny Calendar) all manage to create definitive, real personae who add a lot of the season's unique flavor.  LaMorte also had great chemistry with Head that was never really explored as thoroughly as I would've liked.  It's one of the finest acting ensembles that was ever assembled for a television show.
For seven years, Buffy was the best show on television.  Just watch an episode or two from this boxed set, and you'll wonder why more shows this good don't get made.  I know I do.