What we have with this incarnation of Sonic the Hedgehog is arguably the most popular of the 3 American series by DiC and and Sonic X dubbed by 4kids.

With this story of Sonic it is the maturest out of all of them, has a much darker tone to it and dealt with real and adult issues.

SPOILER ALERT:

The episodes are written with a cinematic feel to them in that every episode felt big, dramatic and well worth watching.  Season Two is where every episode links up with each other leading up to the season finale that was the Doomsday project.

There was never a dull moment in this series entire run.  Particularly with the Antoine double episodes; I think this was done to add some comic relief to the series and the things that Sonic would put Antoine through was hilarious when you see him going nuts.

The voices matched the characters perfectly.  Jaleel White is always great as Sonic and Kathie Soucie made Princess Sally Acorn her own character by using her own naturalistic soothing, soft voice.  And Jim Cummings in my mind was the perfect voice over for Robotnik with the slow and sinister tone that he used in his voice.

What makes Sat-Am so appealable is that because it was produced in the early 90's it did not suffer the fate of most animated shows of the modern day and age where the dialogue is kiddified.  I don't think the dialogue in this show was terribly adult, and by that I don't mean profain material, there was no technical language that kids wouldn't understand.  But, the writers of the series wrote a dialogue that was cool with all ages.

What is disappointing was where the series was cancelled just as the writers/producers were getting ready to write and draw for Season 3.  Having said that, it didn't help matters that at the time, Power Rangers were extremely popular all over the world.  Ben Hurst talks about the plans that they would have done for the third Season and they are good.

I think it would be good for the series to be renewed because the writing and the characters had such depth and richness to them that made the show so enjoyable.

But until then, you can enjoy what is arguably the best Sonic animated series ever produced.

Thank you for your time.