This movie is the pattern for Dirty Harry and every car chase film that followed-both good and bad. The well-known car chase scene might have lost just a bit of luster over the years but remember, it was a first of its' kind in 1968. I'm old enough to remember this movie at the theater on a big screen (before the cineplex small screen devolution) and man, when the cars were jumping the hills in SF- you were there! Just ask my stomach. Watching on a small screen at home I'd recommend turning out the lights during the chase and enjoying the 7 minute rollercoaster ride. Name another movie that had a car named after it. In 2001 Ford put out a limited edition Mustang GT Bullitt, dark green fastback in homage to Steve and the "chase". I know that many movies that followed had impressive and more complex car chases but Bullit was first-name an earlier one. After Bullitt there was "The French Connection", "The Seven-Ups", "Dirty Mary,Crazy Larry", "Smokey and the Bandit", even "The Blues Brothers" and many, many more. So you can say that Bullitt created a subgenre of movies that lasted for more than a decade. Even TV got into the action (Dukes of Hazzard). Like I said -both good and bad. Now the movie storyline is great too. I've read many reviews here that say the movie moves too slow with little action. I disagree. Does "The Godfather" move too slow with little action too? The movie is done in a realistic, gritty style that has moments of explosive violence punctuating intelligent dialogue, acting and storyline-especially for 1968. Very much in the French style of film-making, as were French Connection, Dirty Harry, Laughing Policeman,The Exorcist, Atlantic City, et al. When the witness is blown away by a shot gun blast to the midsection he flys off his feet and slams into the wall-very realistic even by todays' jaded eye. No computer generated scenes here. Just good ole' special effects. Steve McQueen would be 72 if he lived but like so many other cultural icons that wasn't meant to be. Live fast, die young (well, middle-aged) and leave us with some wonderful movies.The Great Escape, Cincinnatti Kid, The Getaway, Papillon, The Thomas Crown Affair, On Any Sunday, Baby The Rain Must Fall, Junior Bonner, The Magnificent Seven, Le Mans, The Sand Pebbles, Nevada Smith, and more. Where are the Steve McQueen's of today? None of today's "stars" could be believable(laughable) in his roles. McQueen could kick any of their ... figuratively and literally. We miss you Steve!