As a writer who often deals with themes of desire and intimacy [The Wheel of Desire and Other Intimate Hauntings (Writers Club Press, 2000)], I had high hopes for Patrice Chereau's Intimacy. But I was sorely disappointed. I am a divorced man who lived through the miasma of dating before remarrying. I wanted to identify with Jay (Mark Rylance). After all, he is an average-looking Everyman trying to cope with loneliness in a cold world. The crude and cruel circumstances under which he chooses to live, however, make identification impossible. It is hard to identify with squalor. Yes, I know the squalor of his cold-water flat symbolizes the squalor of his soul, but if we are to identify with someone like him we must see him struggle against such deprivations. Jay seems to embrace the filth of his life and seeks to spread it to others, beginning with Claire (Kerry Fox), the woman who drops by each Wednesday to have quick anonymous sex, and continuing with her husband (Timothy Spall). 
The film fails on several counts. First, it is far too long for its subject matter; my wife left the theater before the end, telling me she'd rather wait in our car (in Buffalo in December) than sit through the end. The 120 minute running time includes five sex scenes and WAY too much talk.  Second, there are too many extraneous characters. Jay's friend Victor shows us someone even worse off than Jay, and co-worker Ian philosophizes too much, but neither man adds texture to Jay's life or the film. Her friend Betty is too dim to brighten Claire's life. Only her husband Andy has anything pivotal to say to her, but in what is the film's best line, even he doesn't know her well enough to hurt her. Ironically, although Jay is the first man she wanted to be something with in a long time, she doesn't let him get to know her.
The sex scenes, while certainly explicit, are unerotic. The characters say little or nothing as they couple on the floor in Jay's dirty digs. Of course, all that is intended to show their lack of intimacy, but we get the point within five minutes. (It is an irony worth noting that while Rylance and Fox are acting the parts of uncomfortable casual lovers, they must have reached some level of their own intimacy to portray people unable to attain it.)
A better film would have told the same story in half the time with three principal characters and no sledge-hammer symbolism. His flat needn't have been such a stomach-churning mess, and even people who meet only for sex do engage in conversation. Ask any adult. Most of us have been there, in a casual relationship that one party eventually wanted to be more or in bed trying to overcome discomfort with small talk. Jay and Claire aren't even trying. Intimacy fails because it asks us to recall our own lost relationships and identify with characters and circumstances too far off the scope of our own personal radar. Despite wanting to say something, the film is surprisingly close-mouthed, the infamous fellatio scene notwithstanding.