It worked. It was divine - they strutted, Rob, John and John Paul, whilst Jimmy more rolled with the punches,
guitar strapped low to let his dislocated fingers dance on the fretwork of his double axe fender acoustic string machine, tickling unheard of combinations of notes, chords, slides, plucks, taps and bent notes whirring and gliding from that mysterious place where his sweat trickled down the length of his hair, smiling whilst his digits found the spaces, like a squirrel playing tag in a winter tree - leaping and diving in almost random directions, yet always finding that perfect branch that would just support the note's weight and allow the spring/twist or glide to the next twig, fret and then off again.
John Bonham shouted at the stretched skin of the mambo goated tub drums, crashed the sticks into the fabric of the bass, his singlet vest drenched with the joy of his exertions, hands rumbling in perfect harmony whilst the roadie behind lit a fag, realising that, other than to tighten the bolt on the bells, John was in the seat, moby dick in the north atlantic, explosive warheads bouncing off his shiny triceps, dragging the audience, the band and the fans along with his syncopated brilliance.
JP is the glue - the mandolin clucking briefly, huge keyboards blasting charm into tracks, understated - the bassist - trundling up the train tracks of the neck of his axe, rumbling thunder underpinning the joy above, the basement, the foundation, the lead lining to the soul of the Zep. No expression, just performance, only support for the frontman.
No mere man, here ie is, the strutting god, shirt open, hair flailing, smooth skin exposed to the world, a transient smile ghosting on the lips of the plant, the aspidistra, the peace, anenome, mesebrianthemum pitcher plant Robert. Cut glass, acid souled high-tenor shrieks of blissful expression, taking in the crowd with his eyes and knowing, just knowing that when he said yeah, they would say YEAH, crotch etched into the front of his jeans like a middle aged mans back wallet pocket - you can all have me - all of you, but you have to come with me first. Then suddenly the shriek is soft, melodic, gentle with a twist of irony, expectation, joy, disappointment... t'was in the deepest depths of mordor, I met a girl, so fair... but Gollum,,, the evil one................ does anyone remember laughter? How many chuckles had he inspired from '70's virgins pony trekking on the saddles of his groin?

And then there was the economy of effort, the surefootedness, the integration, extra sensory understanding of adjustment when to dive in, when to stay out - extend, contract, blend like a fruit smoothy - as if it were invented then - maybe iced coffee of harmony. My god these guys knew each other. They were incredible. Outstanding. Hyperbole is lost on the perfection of some of those moments. Thank god they have been captured for all time. Lost they would have been a travesty of global proportions. Now they have been shipped out, piece by piece to the people of the world to watch in comfort or love.