The three stars are for excellent performances (including one by the city of Glasgow, which very convincingly impersonates New York in 1905) and beautiful cinematography.  But if you haven't read the novel, it may be difficult to understand just what's going on.  A great deal of the action in Edith Wharton's novels happens inside her characters' heads.  Even the most sensitive and intelligent of her characters, like Lily Bart, have had all the gumption bred out of them by a suffocating society, and the plot depends mainly on their making bad choices at crucial moments.  Wharton can tell us what the character is thinking, and why she is always working at cross-purposes with herself, right up to and including the last thing she ever does, when she takes an overdose of sleeping medicine; she may intend to kill herself or she may not, Lily herself doesn't really know.  
A movie simply can't tell you all that, it has to simplify and shorten the plot, and some characters have to be written out.  But did they have to sacrifice Gertie Farrish?  She's a wonderful character, a glimpse of hope for women in gilded age society, in that she has managed to build an independent life for herself, and to do something more worthwhile than sit around in drawing rooms serving tea.  When she's first mentioned, it's as a drap spinster whom Lily pities, but in the end, Gertie is Lily's only true friend, and this in spite of the fact that she knows they both love the same man.  Her generosity is quite a contrast to the society women who dump Lily for supposedly having an affair with a married man, even though they all know perfectly well that she's innocent.  At the end of her life, Lily gets a glimpse of redemption when she meets one of the poor women whom she and Gertie helped with their charitable work.  And why don't we get even a glimpse of Lily's parents, in at least a brief flashback?  It was Lily's mother who effectively wrecked her daughter's life, by bringing her up to accomplish one thing only, namely to marry rich, and win back her family's status after her father lost his fortune.  (The scheming mother in "Titanic" was the same stock type; she may even have been modeled on Wharton's character).
The movie is worth seeing, but it's no substitute for reading the novel.