Focusing on the themes of friendship, loyalty, dreams, the future, and the quirks of a teen's life, "Ghost World" is an exciting adventure leading insight into the life of a newly graduated teen.
  The story is about two best friends freshly out of high school. In their search for a future they would enjoy, they run across opposition from their parents and peers. They are trying to find a place where they belong in the world. Focusing on one of the girls, it portrays her inner tumult about the decisions she must make. This girl meets an older eccentric man and decides to befriend him and add color to his life. She feels sorry for this man and feels she can help him. She ends up falling in love with him even though she is 18 and he is 40. Through trying to help this man she has only complicated her own life more. When the man she is helping falls in love with a woman his own age (who the girl has set him up with) the girl sabotages the relationship and ends up ruining her friendship with the older man too. She becomes very depressed and dissatisfied with her life at this point. Her best friend is pressuring her to get a job and move into an apartment with her. She doesn't feel ready for this choice yet and holds back. Meanwhile on the home front her father has told her he is going to marry someone who she hates. At this point she is very displeased with her own actions and with the people around her. Finally she decides to follow her own dreams. She finds a random bus and gets on it. This has always been her dream to do and she finally does it. 
  This movie portrays an interesting aspect to all of our lives. I think at some point this is what everyone wants to do. Just get on a bus and leave all your cares behind. This story really brings about a human connection between the characters that makes you feel as if you know them. I think the author, through this story, is trying to express his concern for the world. He shows one lone girl and the weight of her problems and a lonely man. The author is trying to tell others to just follow their own dreams instead of trying to live someone else's life for them. I think the author is hoping that when people watch this they will try to relate it to their own lives and make better choices themselves.