Talk about major disppointments and wasted potential!  Here we have a very interesting (and promising) opening scene where a dragon is accidentally unearthed in an underground London excavation site and escapes.  THEN, the director (for whatever lame reasons) immediately segues into a brief newspaper montage, describing how more dragons have emerged and eventually annhiliated most of the world.THEN, it's twenty years later.  WHAT?  COME AGAIN?  Let's rewind a moment, and allow me to ask a really dumb question:  HOW COME THAT WASN'T THE STORY?  It doesn't sound too dull to me.  That's what those deceptive posters and trailers conveyed.  Why didn't this tepid production have the guts to stick to its guns?When it jumps twenty years ahead, it then becomes like a cable series;  that medicore kind where the pilot episode seems highly promising, but only to go downward from there.  At this droll point, everything worth seeing has already happened. Party's over, you can go home now.  How's that for true excitement?I was all geared up to want to know what happened right after the first one escaped and how all the others came to be.  It would have also been compelling to have crucial scenes where the scientists come to discover that the dragons were responsible for the extinction of the dinosaurs and the start of the ice age.  (Imagine surreal flashbacks that actually SHOW THIS, instead of just 'mentioning it in passing'). Thus, the film would be more than just two hours of dragon breath and barbequed mankind. I would have also been very curious to SEE how the human race fought them - and lost (as chillingly depicted in that TIME mag cover of NYC in flaming ruins with those ominous words:  THE END?).  That was the suspenseful and terrifying film I wanted to see, instead of this dismal effort which only boasts fleeting moments of action.  Also, WHERE WERE THE DRAGONS? All I saw were what appeared to be birds in the distance; nothing too threatening or scary about that.  Obviously, we now live in the disconcerting cinematic age of the LOST OPPORTUNITY.  Isn't it a pity?PREQUAL, ANYONE?