"The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford" is one of only three period pieces about this brief window of American history. The other two are "The Long Riders" (1980) and "Ride with the Devil" (Ang Lee's under-released 1999 classic). All three films have in common a real effort to recapture on film this historical period, its manners, dress, ways of speaking, and the real substance of the events portrayed. In this sense, "The Assassination of Jesse James" departs from the standard, stale, and overplayed traditional Western elements, and attempts to recreate the bleak and dismal setting of post-Civil War Missouri, burned out by years of hard fighting between federal and Kansan militias on the one hand, and the Southern-affiliated Missouri riders on the other. Just as in Ang Lee's classic, and in "The Long Riders", the filmaker succeeds in this respect.

More importantly, perhaps, the film focuses on one unexplored facet of this piece of American experience, the decline of the James' brothers once well-oiled machine of militarily trained partisans turned outlaws. The opening scene, which features Robert Ford seeking an audience with the James brothers, and getting a brutal response from the older Frank, presents the post-Northfield raid gang as a collection of rubes and hicks, without either the discipline or capabilities of their forerunners. The crass and vulgar dialogue of this opening scene sets the stage for the rest of the film. The hardened, professional, and almost courtly James brothers are contrasted to their low-class bumpkin recruits. Thankfully, Jesse and Frank disband this group after one last and nearly botched train robbery (the "Blue Cut" robbery), and Frank rides off to the East Coast.

Jesse, meanwhile, lives in a paranoiac state, worrying about whether these former gang members will betray him, and occasionally killing a suspect himself. One by one, these churlish and low-class thugs wound and kill one another, leaving Jesse increasingly isolated. It is in this context that he finally and fatefully takes the Ford brothers--Bob and Charley--into his confidence.

Much of the depiction here is absolutely historically accurate. The final scene of the assassination is scripted directly from Bob Ford's letter to Gov. Crittenden, in which he described the event, and Ford's end is taken directly from contemporary accounts as well. As one who has followed Western history for almost two decades, the realism of this film provides a startling departure from the typical Hollywood treatment of the Western. In this sense, "the Assassination of Jesse James" stands on its own as a period piece, and not strictly a Western (especially as most of it is shot in settings that no one would identify today as "Western"--e.g., the Tetons, Monument Valley, and the like--but rather, the bleak and barren hills of the Western Missouri farm country, with its stark and isolated clapboard farmhouses.).

The acting is superb, and Brad Pitt does an excellent job representing the mercurial Jesse James. Crticisms of Pitt in this role have been vastly overstated. My impression was that Pitt continues to grow beyond his pretty-boy persona as an actor. The only criticism of his acting in any way is that he did not seem to be able to really integrate his own persona with that of Jesse James--in other words, there was no overarching modern leitmotif to allow him to convey exactly who Jesse James was. After all, this is a period of American social history about which almost no one has any more real memory or awareness, so every portrayal has to be reconstructed speculatively, as it were. Still, Pitt gets as close to the enigmatic and contradictory character of Jesse James as any actor in recent memory has. Certainly, Pitt outstrips every classic Western portrayal of Jesse James. I was frankly impressed.

For his part, Casey Affleck as Bob Ford had the easier task, as he actually was given a modern psychological interpretation on Ford's character as that of a boy consumed by hero-worship, emulation and fascination leading to frustration with his non-acceptance into Jesse's gang, leading ultimately to betrayal. I have no idea how accurately this interpretation represents the historical reality of who Bob Ford was. No one does. Still, Affleck's (and the film's) interpretation of Robert Ford is completely believable in terms of modern psychology and draws the viewer into both the sympathy and pathology of this young, would-be Missouri outlaw turned traitor. Affleck was justly nominated for an academy award for his performance.

I recommend this film to anyone interested in quality historical depictions of classic Western themes. It treats its subject from the standpoint of strict periodicity, with intense attention to the details of that era. It rises above the traditional Western's typical reduction of historical personages such as Jesse James to type figures in a morality play. The shame is that this fine film, despite the attractiveness of Brad Pitt as the main star, was barely in the theaters, and was completely under-released, just as was the case with Ang Lee's "Ride with the Devil", which treats the earlier period of the same kinds of people that made up the James-Younger Gang. What a shame, for such a well-done and gripping treatment of a long-neglected topic!