Chip and Dale Rescue Rangers was first aired on Disney channel in the late 80's. This boxset is nicely packaged with 3 thinpak DVDs containing 27 out of 65 episodes. The episodes are in its original 4:3, 1:33:1 full screen aspect ratio and formatted to fit your TV screen. Each episode is 22 minutes long with lots of fun and adventure with your two favorite chipmunks. All the episodes have the original opening and ending theme songs. I didn't notice any editing with the episodes, so I'm pretty sure these are uncut (feel free to correct me). There is no pilot episode included and there are no specials or extras in this set. Audio and Subtitles are only in English.

The only thing I was disappointed about was that the episodes are in production order and not in airdate order. I'll make a list of the episodes in DVD order along with the original episode airdate number.

Disc 1:
Catteries Not Included (episode 2)
Three Men and a Booby (episode 10)
The Carpetsnaggers (episode 11)
Piratsy Under the Seas (episode 1)
Adventures in SquirrelSitting (episode 7)
Flash the Wonder Dog (episode 4)
The Pound of the Baskervilles (episode 8)
Parental Discretion Retired (episode 13 [END of season 1])
Risky Beesness (episode 9)

Disc 2:
Bearing up Baby (episode 12)
Out to Launch (episode 5)
Dale Beside Himself (episode 3)
Kiwi's Big Adventure (episode 6)
A Lad in a Lamp (episode 19, Season 2)
Battle of the Buldge (episode 21)
Ghost of a Chance (episode 22)
An Elephant Never Suspects (episode 23)
A Case of Stage Blight (episode 27)

Disc 3:
The Luck Stops Here (episode 20)
Fake Me to Your Leader (episode 24)
Last Train to Cashville (episode 25)
The Case of the Cola Cult (episode 26)
Throw Mummy From the Train (episode 28)
A Wolf in Cheap Clothing (episode 29)
Prehysterical Pet (episode 32)
Robocat (episode 30)
Does Pavlov Ring a Bell? (episode 31)

All airdate episodes included:
Season 1: episodes 1-13 (complete)
Season 2: episodes 19-32

I remember watching this show when I was a little kid. This show brings back loads of nostalgia. I bought this for myself for my birthday yesterday and I'm very happy that I did. I will definitely buy the next DVD set and hope that Disney will release the final volume.

Also, an advisory for overly protective parents; if you don't want your kids to watch shows that say words such as stupid, idiot, or references to drinking, then I would not suggest this for your kids.