This is the 4th iteration of this movie that I have owned.  My first was on VHS, then came the Criterion LaserDisc, which was followed by the Criterion DVD edition.  I really wasn't expecting much of an improvement over the Criterion DVD since this is an older movie.  Regardless of what version you own, if you are a Python fan, you are in for a HUGE surprise with this latest edition on Blu-ray.  The picture is near perfection with only a couple of scenes where I noticed the tiniest bit of film grain.  Perhaps the biggest surprise for me was the remastered sound elements.  After trying the different sound choices, I found the PCM soundtrack to be the best.  I really wasn't expecting the sound to be that great for this movie, but BOY was I surprised.  Sony has truly outdone themselves with this latest high def remastering of Life of Brian.  This is the absolute best I have ever seen or heard of this zany film.  There are details in the picture that I have NEVER seend before, and I have seen this movie MANY MANY times.  If I had to complain about anything, it would be that the special features were not in HD, but that is not that big a deal since everything else about this title is just spot on.

There are many who would say this movie is a sacrilege.  As a Christian, I would disagree with such a statement.  I have heard some say that this movie is making light of Jesus' ministry, and especially his crucifixion.  They are missing the whole point.  I think this movie illustrates how some people will blindly follow religious leaders, or will just go with the crowd without really questioning what they're doing, or why they're doing it.  The scene where Brian is mistaken for Jesus and chased by the crowd is a good example.  When his sandal falls off, some take it as a sign that they should remove their own sandal, while some choose to follow the Holy Gourd of Jerusalem.  How can anyone NOT see the humor in that???  Also, what if there really were some in the far back of the crowd at the Sermon on the Mount who couldn't quite make out what was being said???  I have seen this movie countless times, and at no point is Jesus ever actually made fun of.  Even the crucifixion scene is obviously not a slight on Jesus' own crucifixion.  He is not the only person to ever be crucified, since there were countless others who suffered this horrible form of death.  The crucifixion scene obviously is not about Jesus' crucifixion since there are much more than three men being crucified.  Of course, I'm sure there are those who would disagree with me.  If you do find this movie to be offensive, then simply don't watch it.  After all, this is still a free country.  To those of you who have longed for a pristine version of this classic Python piece, you MUST get this one on Blu-ray.  I will be waiting patiently for Sony to deliver a comparable version of the Holy Grail on Blu-ray soon.