If you are a fan of British comedy you are certain to recognize the name Hyacinth Bucket.  This show premiered in 1990 and the original VHS tapes were very expensive and difficult to come by, thereby keeping it out of reach of the average customer.  This set, which for me was a surprise gift ordered from Amazon, is a marvelous value.  Purchasing individual seasons can be costly, especially when you add in the postage.  The color in this series is excellent, the sound clear, and the packaging makes it easy to store.  Each DVD is in its individual, hard plastic casing.  The entire set is set up so you can turn these cases like a book easily finding your episodes.

There is no booklet with this set, but the cast of characters and the history of the series is readily found on the Internet.  The only "major" change to the cast was that of Rose.  Shirley Stelfox played her on season one and the subsequent four seasons were played by Mary Millar.  If you want British comedy at its best, you'll be looking at this affordable set.  Whether you favorite character is Hyacinth, Richard, Daisy, Onslow, Rose, or even Bruce you'll have hours of fun with this series. Which is your favorite episode?

Volume 1
"My Way or the Hyacinth Way"

The Name is Bouquet: B-U-C-K-E-T
Welcoming the Dish Vicar
Visiting an Acquaintance's Stately Home
A Fate Worse Than Senility
Our Daisy and Her Toy Boy
How to Manage a Family Christening
Plus Outtakes

Volume 2
"Hints from Hyacinth"

A Strange Man
Driving Mrs. Fortescue
Candlelight Supper
Golfing with the Major
The Googley-Eyed Registrar
Plus Outtakes

Volume 3
"Home is Where the Hyacinth Is"

Cocktails with a Greek Shipping Millionaire
The Unfortunate Prospect of Early Retirement
Playthings for Daddy
Three Piece Suite
Picnic for Daddy
Plus Funny Women, Outtakes

Volume 4
"Deck the Halls With Hyacinth"

Christmas Specials
A Very Merry Hyacinth
Sea Fever
Angel Gabriel Blue
Hisorical Pageant
Plus the Kitty Monologues

Volume 5
"Everything's Coming Up Hyacinth"

Half a Camel
How to Retire Early if You're Not Careful
A Portrait of the Artist as a Hen-Pecked Man
The French Lieutenant's Daughters
How to Go on Holiday Without Really Trying
What to Wear When Yachting
Violet's Country Cottage
Plus Outtakes

Volume 6
"Some Like it Hyacinth"

Hyacinth Tees Off!
The Nautical Speaker
Indoor/Outdoor Luxury Barbeque & Finger Buffet
Rural Retreat
Beacon for the Best in Hospitality
Please Mind Your Head
Let There Be Light
Plus Second Chance Shorts, Outtakes

Volume 7
"Living the Hyacinth Life"

Seaside Fun
The Fancy Dress Ball
Hyacinth is Alarmed
Riparian Entertainments
Sister, Sister
Country Estate Sale
Plus Pebble Mill, Outtakes

Volume 8
"Hats Off to Hyacinth"

General Bucket
A Bon Vivant Buffet
A Crafts-Woman Scorned
Scintillating Socializing
Plus Memoirs, Outtakes

Volume 9
"Life Lessons From Onslow"

Onslow has been reen lighted to teach an Open University credit course on successful relationships.  In this "introductory lecture," he addresses the underpinnings of healthy human interactions, using "real lfe," examples from the world of "Keeping Up Appearances."

Plus Interviews with Patricia Routledge and Judy Cornwell, Comedy Connections