I'm not going to say much about Paul Newman or his "Luke" character in this critique, since many of the earlier reviewers have done a much better job of that than I ever could. Nor do I need to rehash the Christ parallel speculation or comment on the egg-eating contest or the pivotal boxing/grudge match between Luke and Dragline. What makes this classic movie so memorable for me are: 1] the ensemble supporting cast (many of whom, in 1967, had still to truly establish themselves as cinematic fixtures) and 2] the wonderful myriad of neologisms and epithets that pepper the characters' dialogue from start to end.

First of all, what terrific casting! Harry Dean Stanton, Lou Antonio, Wayne Rogers, Dennis Hopper, Anthony Zerbe, Joe Don Baker, Ralph Waite, J. D. Cannon -- the list goes on! Movies like "Armageddon" and "Boogie Nights," "Saving Private Ryan" and "The Big Chill" utilized groups of ecclectic actors to great success, but few are the films that offered their supporting players less screen time to do more than their scripts showed on paper. The only other film I can think of at this moment that achieved this in comparable manner was "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest."

Now the dialogue. How's this for a testimony? My brothers and I still call each other "mullet-heads," ask for "brown bombers" when we have indigestion, and say "Takin' it off here, boss!" when doffing a coat or sweatshirt. We often invoke "Babalugats" when we make a bet, argue how we'd made arrangements to get the "easy broom job" when we're stuck cleaning mom's gutters or painting one of her rooms, and shout "I'm shakin' it, boss -- I'm shakin' it!" when one of us is... um... tending to nature. Oh yeah -- and once, when my older sib was looking for a date, I told him I knew "a couple o' fahm girls what really knows what fun is." In addition, I can't leave out some occasional banter about Lucille's safety pin, or the plunkings of our post-meal bellies (during the holidays) that each sound like "a ripe wattamelon what's about ta bust isself open."

There you have it. To my tribe, this film is pretty much a lexicon of colorful words and phrases that, even after so much time and so many years, remain in our vocabulary. And the film itself isn't too shabby either!