I'll admit, I was skeptical at first.  After all, half of the allure of Sherlock Holmes is the grittiness and fog contrasting against the elegance and splendor of the Victorian era.  How would this translate in a modern era?  Surprisingly well, it turns out.  Although only 3 episodes have been released (and yes, it has been renewed for further seasons/series), Sherlock has already found a place in my heart (and a permanent slot on my iPod).  The acting is absolutely fabulous, and it is a smart blend of action, suspense, drama, and comedy, filled with references to the novels.

A Study in Pink (Steven Moffat): Written by the mastermind behind the latest season/series of Doctor Who starring Matt Smith (my favorite year of DW to date), and other gems like Jekyll (another modern retelling, this time of Robert Louis Stevenson's Victorian horror story), A Study in Pink re-introduces you to the characters of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. John Watson.  Based more off the Sir Arthur Conan Doyle stories than the movies that made the term "dearstalker" a household name, Holmes solves mysteries the police cannot using his powers of observation, keen ability to connect the dots, and a smartphone.  Watson, an Afghan war vet once more (things never really do change, do they?), is introduced to Holmes while looking for a roommate, and finds in him a friend and partner who can satisfy his need for adventure and danger in the humdrum of post-war life.  On the advice of his psychiatrist, Watson begins a blog about Holmes' cases, and thus fulfills the role of biographer to the famous consulting detective.  In this story, the police are looking into a series of deaths that are believed to be suicides by ingestion of pills, but Sherlock knows are murders.  The mystery takes second-stage to the characters in this one, though.  While the story suffers a smidgen for it, you will still have a ton of fun watching the characters develop and the stage get set.  A pitch-perfect introduction to what is surely going to be a beloved show for a long time.

The Blink Banker (Stephen Thompson): A series of mysterious spray-painted symbols links murders and disappearances to ancient Chinese artifacts.  Easily the weakest of the three stories so far, but still a good time, with some particularly fine acting by Martin Freeman.  The ending is especially chilling, and worth the price of admission alone.

The Great Game (Mark Gatiss): An explosion rocks London, and soon the culprit challenges Sherlock in a race against time to solve seemingly unrelated cases before the next bomb goes off.  Dr. Watson shines in this episode, showing that he is not the bumbling idiot as often portrayed in the movies (but NOT in the books, mind you; while he is not Sherlock's equal in terms of training, he is nearly as smart, and certainly more world-wise).  There are also some lovely moments between Sherlock and Mycroft, great character exposition with regards to how Sherlock's mind works, and the nemesis that has been winding himself into the plots and lurking in the background.
And the ending... oh, my.  My friends and I are still talking about it!

This program is more like three stand-alone movies, each episode being about 1.5 hours with a satisfying conclusion to wrap it up at the end (with one minor episode 3 caveat, about which I will not go further to avoid the slightest chance of spoiling the moment).  But like any movie and its sequels, it is still best to watch them in order.
(A side note: The price might seem like a bit much for only three episodes, until you realize how much you would be paying for one stand-alone movie.  And this show is better than most movies I could name.)