BATMAN RETURNS is the best piece of film work I've ever been witness to. It might be that it's only my personal taste but I don't care. I stand by my statements. When it was first released it got a lot of negative reviews, but just like Hitchcock's VERTIGO, it has garnered second opinions from many critics. This might in turn become Tim Burton's Vertigo. The writing is incredible for it's genre. The characters are so complex and so well played. Michelle Pfeiffer's Catwoman is the best to date. She has been quoted in saying that her part as Catwoman was the hardest roll she ever played. That she had to go through the script and meticulously outline what Selina Kyle's state of mind had to be. I have absolutely no idea how she missed a nomination for an Academy Award. Danny Devito does a beautifully gory interpretation of the penguin. Christopher Walken is awesome as the sort of the fun-house version of Donald Trump and I love to hate him. Michael Keaton's Batman isn't shown as much but Keaton still has him nailed. The chemistry created between each character is one thing that makes this movie so amazing. It's the tension between them that creates such realism in a surreal made-up world. Especially in my absolute favorite scene when Bruce and Selina find out who each other's opposite identity really is. It's not a coincidence that Rick James' "Super Freak" plays in the background. There are a lot of underlying themes in this movie that one can sit and think about. I think the writer was trying to say something about those times and about society. It's hard to put a finger on, but I know it's there. One complaint that most have of this movie is the lack of action. That's what I can warn about is the lack of action. This is like the Soup Opera of all comic book movies, and if all you want is action in your movies than you might as well go blow your head off cuz this world can't make much use of you. Anyway I could go on and on about the greatness of this movie, but I need to get back to MY life. So if you have a thoughtful head on your shoulders watch this movie and if all you like is your action go to K-mart and buy yourself a shinny new rifle.