One of the best films I have seen in a long time is The Forgotten.  It's about a middle aged woman named Telly (Julianne Moore, Laws of Attraction) who losses her nine-year-old son, Sam Paretta, fourteen months earlier in a plane crash.  She is still grieving over the loss and is seeing a psychiatrist (Gary Sinise, C.S.I.: NY, Mission to Mars) to help her slowly coup with Sam's death.  Yet, one day her husband (Anthony Edwards, ER) swears they never even had a child and her psychiatrist insists she is delusional.  Telly tries to convince them but all evidence of her son's existence has been completely erased.  Telly is haunted by the memories of her son so she searches for the truth that is hidden within a conspiracy of inexplicable terror.

 The number one reason why I enjoyed this film was for its incredible camera shots.  Each scene gave off an eerie sensation of a higher being at work.  Also, each shot was filmed to show the audience just enough to figure out what was going on, but still left much to the imagination.  Not to mention the fact that all of the camera shots repeatedly get your adrenalin pumping and your heart pounding.

I also liked this film because it helped me realize how connected a mother is to her offspring.  Ash Correll (Dominic West, Mona Lisa Smile), whose daughter Laura also died in the plane crash, had forgotten all about her but Telly had refused to forget about Sam.  I loved how this movie took this concept and used it to get the audience to think about how a mother could, with all odds against her, remember a forgotten child.

 The actors in this movie were remarkable.  Julianne Moore was the perfect choice.  She proved she could do comedy when she starred in Evolution, she proved she could do drama and anguish when she was in Hannibal, and she proved she could do it all again in this film.  I also thought Dominic West did an incredible job, too.  He mastered his part as a smooth jerk-of-a-teacher in Mona Lisa Smile and now, in this film he played perfectly the role of a grieving dad.  Moore and West are great together and put a lot of drama and emotion into their acting; I hope to see then star together in future movies as well.

My advice to anyone that wants to watch this movie is to realize a few things ahead of time.  First, if the film is not what you expected, don't automatically label it a horrible film; instead realize what a great job the director (Joseph Ruben) did in keeping this film's surprise twist a mystery till the end.  The less you know about the ending or true plot of a film, the more influence that trailers are going to have on you to see the movie.  Second, realize that this IS just a movie, so enjoy it!  It's not based on a true story so some parts are going to be exaggerated and fake, but that just makes this film all the more edge-of-the-seat entertaining.  Also, this film will make you jump (just like in The Sixth Sense).  I can think of at least two parts where the whole audience, including me freaked.  A little suspense and thrill is what makes this film so much fun to watch.

If you are looking for a film that is both entertaining and full of suspense, drama, and terror with endless twists and turns, then this is a perfect movie for you.  Also, after you have watched the movie, ask yourself this question: so...does this movie make Telly the "ultimate mother"?