Apart from the gripping tale, all to the end, it should've ended like this still keeping the audiences thoughts and mind bending towards evaluating that extenuating circumstances, in a man's life cannot be experienced until he is deep under waters. **spoiler alert** they bring back the bomb back to shelton's cell. and he dials the number. It blows up the cell.. blah blah!! not how it should've ended. The whole reason sheldon does all the killings, is to prove one point. That the law should show no prejudice based on the evidence, or the counsel's maneuvering the witnesses, or the prosecutions cutting deals to maintain the conviction rates. Like he said, .. "it's an imperfect system, and they it's imperfect servants.. " but two imperfections should make a perfect justice. If they are willing to take the gloves off, when dealing with shelton, just cuz he was a worthy opponent.

Alternate ending: the bomb is placed in shelton's cell.. but he doesnt' trigger that one, but triggers another that doesnt kill the mayor but instead destroy's a room not filled with people.., proving his tact..shelton instead shows a video that if they can play dirty,.. he already did.. (by showing his wife and kid in a room with a bomb next to them, ask him to make a hard choice.. and tell nick to live with it..) , shelton, still two steps ahead of the game, nick admits defeat ..then nick confesses his guilt in public to the press that he cut the deal, to protect his conviction rate.. and that it's an imperfect system where tampered evidences or counsel taking defense for such criminals make this insane society look sane to people's eyes ,.. his wife and kid watch him.. with disgust.. and finally a few years later the media announcements that .. cutting deals for convictions.. would not be part of the law.. and that amedments would be put in practice to make people believe in law... " that law abiding is also .. law believing.." .. shelton vanishes..  but watches from somewhere far off .. nick and his family.. now together .. and shelton looks at his family picture and smiles.. !!

The words or the framed sentences might not be perfect but i think.. you would get the idea.. :)