Okay, okay, "Gettysburg" is released the same year that some blockbuster "Apollo 11" comes out and pretty much ousts the competition, but to leave this three plus hour epic totally left for naught at the Oscars is an extreme insult to everyone that took part in Ronald F. Maxwell's "Gettysburg".
Based from Michael Shaara's Pulitzer Prize-winning "The Killer Angels", "Gettysburg" brags an all-star (and heavily underrated) cast of Martin Sheen, Tom Berenger, Jeff Daniels, Richard Jordan, Stephen Lang, and Sam Elliott. The film was written and directed by Ronald F. Maxwell and scored by Randy Edelman. The film was actually more successful when it was put on television as a mini-series, but this incredible movie will be branded in my heart forever.
The story follows the main characters of Confederate generals Lee (Sheen), Longstreet (Berenger), and Union colonel Chamberlain (Daniels) as both their armies meet accidentally in a small town called Gettysburg in the heat of July, 1863. With effective supporting roles, Sam Elliott opens the story for us as cavalry general Buford, a hardened veteran who was the real hero of the first day, snubbed (ahem) from credit because the Union commander at the time did not favor cavalry. Stephen Lang plays Confederate general Pickett, one of the most famous (or infamous) generals ever to be known in American history. But, by far, the best role is that of fellow Confederate general Lewis Armistead, played (in his final role) by Richard Jordan. Armistead is a conflicted man as he must face his best friend on the opposite side of the battlefield.
"Gettysburg" wisely focuses more on the lives surrounding the battle than the battle itself, creating a heavy atmosphere. When there are battle scenes, they're more dramatized than anything else - focus again was supposed to be on the characters, not on the gore, so sometimes it seems a little fake. For we historical nitpickers, Sheen's Virginian accent is too heavy, and Longstreet's beard is horrible, but if you're looking for what could have easily been the best picture of 1993, buy this.
I believe their should have been four nominations: Best Actor (Daniels) who as Chamberlain, unquestionably gives the best performance of his career; Best Supporting Actor (Jordan), who would die of brain cancer before the film could premiere easily was given the most emotional role, and delivers incredibly. His monologues are performed beautifully, which leads to the next "snubbed", which is Adaptation Screenplay, for Maxwell. He surprisingly does a good deal of writing here, and of course, the last one, Best Picture...