"The Women" was a dollar rental from that trusty RedBox that our grocery stores around here have.  What a relief!  The story is centered around Meg Ryan's character- who finds out that her loving and doting husband is cheating on her.  Meg Ryan and her beautiful hair and angelic face- cheating on HER?  Meg has a band of girlfriends including gruff and streetwise Jada Pinkett-Smith, goofy Debra Messing and smart and sophisticated Annette Benning.  So, where does that leave the other famous actress on the cover?  Eva Mendes is the mistress.  Of course.  With those curves and that mouth... Fine, I can see why.

But!  Meg Ryan's girls flock around her and push her to do the dirty work that she is usually too feeble to do.  She screams and swears and gets her nails done!  Meg Ryan has always been a little aloof in her movies, but I'd be okay to admit that this movie is one of her finer performances.  I think between her and Annette Benning, I'm hard pressed who made this film the measely 3 stars that it is.  Without them, the whole thing would have been a disaster.

The story is overdone and we've seen all angles of this thing, but... I was willing to watch someone do it one more time.  "The Women" didn't show me anything new.  Nothing surprised me.  Meg Ryan did a stellar performance of being the doting and happy wife, to the angry and depressed, yet ANGRY adulteree (is that a word?).  I enjoyed watching her transformation.

The director did not use Debra Messing's natural ability to entertain, make jokes (yes), but also to offer insight.  I usually enjoy Messing's work, but this one just left me thinking she is entirely too quirky and had no serious moments in the entire movie.  Jada Pinkett-Smith, I'll admit, I haven't seen her in many movies, but this one was overacted and I couldn't wait for her to get off the screen.  Obviously she isn't a street person in real life, but I am not supposed to know that, as the viewer.  Not a good performance at all.  The few times that Eva Mendes was on screen, she seemed surly and pouting, and at times bitchy- but rarely did I see her account for her actions- especially when Meg Ryan actually confronts her.  Eva is hardly in the movie at all, which for this particular film, is a blessing.  She would have only botched it up more.

This gets a three stars.  If Meg Ryan and Annette Benning hadn't done such a great job, it would have gotten a two stars for the script writing and the others overacting.  It was bearable, but not something I will probably ever watch again.