A little over 2  years ago I was inspired to get into the best shape of my life.  My wife and I just had a kid a year before, I lost my motivation (loss of sleep and the total change in ones life that comes with having a child) and had only been working out once a week tops (lifting weights)for a few months.  This was after taking a 9 month break of doing no excercise at all before getting this video.  What really made me think I need to start doing cardio was the fact that I got caught in a rip current that summer and when I almost instantly got winded trying to help another swimmer stay calm get back to shroe..... it really inspired me to workout.  At 30, I was in the worst shape I had been since I was in my mid teens and something had to change.  I didn't feel good about myself and my fitness level.

Being into the UFC, this workout sounded really interesting to me.  It combined strength training with cardio - win win as far as I could see!  Money was tight so I knew actually doing MMA was out of the picture at the time but if nothing else, this could help me get into share for when I was ready.  At first, I couldn't stand the thought of doing a "workout video".... seemed really (insert choice word here) to me.  That being said, after reading the reviews on the Pit - it sounded different.  It sounds like just want I needed and I knew I had to at least try it.  I figured for $15, what did I have to lose?

The first time I did this video it killed me!  My arms and legs have never been more tired or sore.  I started with the total body workout (workout 3).  It was way over my limits!!!  I would get winded so easily (to the point I felt like I was going to collapse and I would sound like an asthmatic) and the pace was just way too fast.  While it was a bit overwhelming, I stuck with it.  After doing the video a few more times and getting use to it, I found that I would need to rest every other set or so.... I just couldn't keep up.  I would set goals for myself.  If John Hackleman did 20 push ups, I would do 10... stuff like that.  The next time I might do 11.  I could steadily see improvements in my fitness.  Without changing my diet (which isn't the best) in the first 6 months I took off 10 lbs of fat... and I wasn't "overweight" to start!  The video went from impossible to a great challenge and something I looked forward to doing.  I could see the improvement in my fitness in everything I did - swimming, running... everything.  It was great to have cardio.  I had never run 5 k in my life and I ran it once on a treadmill before the event and then entered a 5k and did it in 26 min flat - not bad considering where I started.

Now after doing the video on average once a week for 2+ years (with lifting and some biking mixed in), I truly am in the best shape of my life!  The best part is that this video NEVER gets old to me.  I love workout 3!  While I still cannot do the entire blackjack - I can do every other part of this disk and I am not far off from doing the full blackjack (I cannot keep up with the reps but do it for just as long as they do - that is what is great about this video is you can easily customize it for your fitness level).  Where before I thought to myself there is no way I could ever do this whole video and the intensity blew me away, now it is a challenge I look forward to and is the cornerstone to me staying in shape.

Workout 1 is also killer (upper body workout) but I don't do it too often.  The kicking part really isn't good without a bag but the rest of it is amazing.  If you are not sore after this workout you are an animal!  I have never tired the leg workout but never felt the need as both workout 1 and 3 hit the legs fairly well.  In fact, it is the back of my legs that are usually the sorest from doing these workouts.

I could not recommend this workout video more!  It never gets boring and really hits your entire body hard (except biceps).  To this day it kicks my a$$!  Unless you are at a ridiculous level of fitness - this video is worth a try!  With some weight training thrown in, I don't think you can go wrong.  No, the production quality of the video isn't the best but who cares.  It is a good honest kick your a$$ workout.  The best part is you don't have to leave your home and the convenience factor is a huge plus too!  5 + stars - possibly the best $15 I have ever spent.