Over the last few years I have been very interested in American political history of the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s. Obviously John F. Kennedy looms large during this time and has become a martyr because of his tragic death in Dallas. The cornucopia of written, audio and visual material on this time in American history is staggering. There are so many great books on this time in our history. The amount of books on Kennedy is astounding. I definitely would recommend Robert Reaves' 'President Kennedy-Profile in Power' and Michael Beschloss' 'The Crisis Years' to put this film in historical perspective. I really think they will add even more to a person's enjoyment of 'Thirteen Days'.

'Thirteen Days' is just a really good depiction of this critical time in American history. I always enjoy watching it even though we know how it will end. Bruce Greenwood is really great as JFK. He really captures the man pretty well and is not just a talking wax figure of a historical person. He really makes him come alive. Steven Culp is also excellent as RFK and he captures quite well the mannerisms and voice of the other Kennedy martyr. He also imbues his character with life. Kevin Costner is good as Kenny O'Donnell but you really want to see more of Greenwood and Culp. Costner is pretty much the audiences 'in' to the picture and is quite good in the role he is given. Kenny O' Donnell really was a close friend of JFK and I recommend his memoir 'Johnny, we hardly knew ye' for further insight.

In other important roles: Dylan Baker makes a convincing Robert McNamara, Michael Fairman IS Adlai Stevenson, Kevin Conway really brings the arrogance of Curtis Lemay to life, and in a small but important role Len Cariou impresses as the legendary Dean Acheson.

The DVD is really a must have because it contains so much good material on the making of the movie and the history that inspired it. The picture and audio are both well done also. Really after watching the DVD I felt as if I had been there in October 1962. Really a top notch historical thriller. I wish more well made historical movies like this were done.

Highly Recommended!