"The Believer" is not a film about neo-Nazism, although it does make some valid points about the ultimately religious nature of the rituals and philosophy of National Socialism (what some have termed "esoteric Hitlerism"), as well as the inconsistencies of anti-Semitic ideology (i.e., anti-Semites claim to hate Jews both because they're weak, yet at the same time because their influence on the world is so strong). It is a bit more about Judaism, evoking some of the mysteries which lie at the heart of its theology, but the film's ultimate point goes far beyond the nature of any specific religion. As the title suggests, this film is about the nature of belief, and the particular problems that those of us who live in the modern world face if we choose to become believers in any form of spirituality. The contradiction that this entails is that, in the modern world, people are often tempted by the power of spirituality, but because most of us are weaned on the idea that the sovereign individual should be at the center of everything, we find it difficult to make the act of complete surrender of our freedom to something exterior to ourselves - God - that, like Danny, the main character of this film, we seek God, but are unable to open ourselves to the relationship which would enable us to see Him. In "The Believer," Danny is at first entranced by his inherited Judaism, but then, frustrated by what he sees as the unjust nature of the Hebrew God, tries to become a hardcore neo-Nazi. However, Danny's inability to acknowledge that there is anything superior to him - God, or anything else - remains, and he is never able to fully commit himself to either belief. Over the course of the film, Danny begins to mix the two beliefs, weaving and trapping himself within the web of an increasingly bizarre and dangerous ideology which fails to resolve the dissatisfaction that he experiences. In our age of designer religions, in which people often select parts from many different belief systems in order to fashion something which is "right for them," this act of syncretism allows them to leave out the most important aspect, surrender, which is essential to reaping the benefits of any genuine system of beliefs. The modern West has, for the most part, forgotten this fact, which is why Americans gawk in horror at the sight of Muslim women who wear headscarves, unable to understand their motivation, and why many Christians forego the genuine teachings of the Bible in favor of believing that Jesus wants them to be rich and that low taxes are a divine right. Yet, as for Danny, the hunger for belief does not go away - it is merely sublimated, often in extremely self-destructive forms.

If you are a secular-minded person, then this film will seem like a nightmare to you - the story of a young man who is incapable of reconciling his idealism with the real world, and as such is condemned to a life of perpetual frustration, anger and fear. If you are a religiously-minded person, then you will see it as a warning against the dangers of belief without humility. Either way, you will not be able to watch it and remain unmoved.