Aside from the superb title song and the espresso maker gag (punchline delivered with exquisite understatement by Bernard Lee), Live and Let Die was largely a waste of celluloid. Man With the Golden Gun, on the other hand, gave me hope for the franchise. Christopher Lee as a Bond villain was an absolutely perfect casting choice, and it's rather a puzzle to me that it wasn't made much earlier in the series. And Roger Moore, for his part, was bringing the role of Bond into his comfort zone enough so that he could even pull off Bond's ruthless side - which, frankly, was seldom seen to such good effect during the rest of Moore's tenure. Herve Villechaize's Nick Nack struck me as an obvious inversion of Oddjob - but with the intriguing wrinkle of being as much of an adversary to his employer, Bond's nemesis Scaramanga, as to Bond himself, and was certainly unforgettable. These three, as actors and characters, seemed to have a rappore that was very natural and fluid, giving the film a level of easy energy that compensated for some fairly mediocre material.

Some things were cringe inducing, such as the return of the redneck sheriff from the previous film, the swallowing of the golden bullet that killed 002, and the sound effect during the signature car stunt. And there were disappointments such as the underwritten Lt. Hip, which made less than full use of Soon-Tek Oh, Maud Adam's inability to convey any of the depth of her character's motivating conflict, and Britt Ekland's airhead version of Mary Goodnight. And let's face it, staging the car chases using AMC vehicles of the period was not the best way to deliver the visual thrill these scenes deserved.

Even so, this film had some unique touches. For once the main villain confessed to perpetrating his fiendish plot using facilities and technology he didn't really understand, and kept his operation admirably bare bones in terms of personnel. Maud Adams did play her final scenes well - and I'm not begin facetious, the effect she produced was downright eerie. As for Mary Goodnight, it was refreshing that Bond's leading lady was someone he already knew from work, and that as such, instead of being shunted aside and/or killed during the proceedings, actually stayed in the game and landed the big lug. Perhaps the character's ditziness was overcompensation for the previous outing's dour Solitaire, but give credit where credit is due; no Bond girl before or since has ever shown herself so adept at opening locked car trunks.