To see this movie is to somewhat see another side of the enigmatic and mysterious Bob Dylan. A Dylan who has put up with the harshness of critics for 40 years. A Dylan, who like his namesake Jack Fate in the movie, who has been never been forgotten and has many loyal friends, followers, and fans. A Dylan who, like Fate, is released from the man built prison but must struggle to be free from the walls that life has built up to keep him down, to hold back the waters of the floodgates of the thoughts in his mind.
Bob Dylan is a genius. And this movie helps to prove that. Too many movies nowadays try to push sex and violence to entertain forgetting that there are a few people whose intelligence is not turned on by a fast high speed car crash. This is a thinking man movie.
With an all star cast the plot line centers on John Goodman as a sleazy promoter(imagine that)named Uncle Sweetheart who is putting on a benefit concert to help support the poor people of an unnamed country which has been torn apart by corruption, wicked politics, rebel uprisings, and much violence.(Sounds like most countries today) Of course Sweetheart's main goal is to pay off his bad debts. Dylans character, Jack Fate, is freed from a prison to perform at the concert. Fate must deal with the sleaze that surrounds the benefit as well as wrestle with the demons of his past and reconcile with his father,the president of the country, who is on his deathbed. He must also deal with a hardcore drunken reporter whos last name is Friend but he is anything but. The questions he ask Fate are very well related to things Dylan has had to deal with throughout his career.
This movie features great acting, a well thought out story line if you get it, and excellent music as Dylan performs several updated versions of his great masterpieces live in the film with his band, the tightest back up band ever!
The movie shows Dylan as a natural at acting, makes several points that can ring home and that most anyone can relate to. This is a must for any Dylan fan and without giving away the ending, all I can say is it's a simple twist of fate!