Great music, Jack Black, and John in Cosby sweaters...*sigh* what more can you ask from a movie. Well, High Fidelity delivers this and much more. Orginally, the story was set in London, England, but John read the book and thought it could just as easily be set in is his hometown of Chicago. Nicholas Horby was fine with the idea, and voila! We have a personalized Cusack creation with him reincarnationing His Lloyd Dobler vulnerability and his deameanor from the first half of The Sure Thing before he realized true love is better than cheap sex in his character Rob Gordon. 
In the beginning of the film, we see Rob's girlfriend Laura walking out on him after an awful breakup...Rob starts blaring the 13th Floor Elevators to get her off his mind, but he realizes pop music can't solve his problems. His problems stem from something deeper.
Rob owns his own failing record store Championship Vinyl and hangs out with his two loyal employees Dick (Liouso) and Barry (Jack Black). This is truly Jack Black's breakout performance...his enegry and comic timing are electric and he gives John a run for his money in this movie..but all the the record store employees have a great film chemistry and they all balance each other out so it works well. 
Well, anyway, back to John Cusack's character Rob....He spends his days collecting records and selling them to worthy customers while Barry's antics and Dick's senstive demeanor keep him going. Gordon can't seem to figure out what went wrong in his personal life, no matter how screwed up his professional life is, his personal life is the biggest mess. So he goes back to his past, meets up with his ex-girlfriends and tries to find out what he did wrong in his relationships to figure out what to do about Laura whom he still loves.
Will Laura stay with the patchuoli sniffing, new age dweeb called Ian, or will she come back to Rob after about 50 scenes with Cusack drenched in rain? Who knows. Watch the movie, buy the soundtrack (buy Tenacious D too by the way, Jack Black is hilarious), and spin some of your favorite vinyl records in honor of this amazing film.