The Robots of Death, I've always felt, has gotten way too good a reputation. It's a typical mid-70's episode, and there are certainly better ones out there (like The Ark in Space or The Seeds of Doom), but this episode works on most levels.

The story has been reviewed enough; I'm going to review the actual DVD.

This was one of the very first Doctor Who DVD releases in the UK and the first in the official range (that now-obsolete Special Edition of The Five Doctors was the actual first release). The Restoration Team are brilliant at these DVD releases; the remastered episodes are great, and the massive amount of special features on most of them helps increase the value. But since this was their first legitimate restoration job, it is extremely weak compared to more recent efforts.

For one, the sound is infuriatingly hissy. I'm so used to the sound on Doctor Who DVDs being virtually devoid of hiss, so this was a particularly annoying viewing experience. It seems like the team only cleaned up the picture a little bit and left the sound as is (no mention at all is made of sound restoration in their article for this story, oddly). It's almost like they took the sound from a VHS and restored the picture to a very small extent. The team's skills nowadays have improved greatly, and if you're used to the releases they've crafted from 2002 onwards (which are very high quality), the substandard quality of this release will come as a shock.

And as for those Howard Da Silva intros that only those on the west side of the Atlantic got for this release... they're bloody terrible. Who the hell thought adding half-baked expository narration to the show would increase its appeal to American audiences? And it doesn't help that Da Silva speaks like he's got a shot glass stuck in his throat and constantly refers to the Doctor as "Doctor Who". I can excuse 1966's The War Machines for doing this (because, you know, everyone involved in that production was British), but hearing some Yankee mook say it makes me want to rip my own hair out by the fistful. His narration is incredibly annoying and completely unnecessary, and overall a symbol of how Americanizing something British almost always fails.

Since a re-release of this story with improved remastering and more substantial special features is unlikely, you should probably pick this up. It's an okay episode, but the substandard remastering lowers the score. Just keep in mind that pretty much all the DVDs of the show released after this are much better quality.