Where do I even begin with this disaster? Back in the early 90's just about everybody knew what Street Fighter was, and it's no surprise that it was made into a movie. This movie had high expectations, and what a total bomb it turned out to be. Now, if we are talking money-wise here, this movie was a complete success. However, I don't know why because it seems like just about everything that could have gone wrong... did. The biggest flaw of the movie (other than the movie itself) is without a doubt the characters. Nothing against Van Damme, I actually like a lot of his movies, but not for even one second did he convince anybody that he was an American soldier. Charlie and Blanka are not the same person (the movie decided to combine them together, making him "Carlos Blanka"). After eleven years, I'm still trying to figure out what they were thinking on that one. E. Honda is supposed to be Japanese and not Hawaiian. Balrog joins Honda and Chun Li as part of a news team. Still reading? It gets funnier. Dhalsim was turned into a scientist. Ryu and Ken are hustlers (whatever happened to honor?) Zangief provided comic relief during the movie (who can ever forget "Quick! Change the channel!" and "You got paid?") And whatever you have heard, Captain Sawada is not Fei Long. The one role they got right was Bison. Julia was perfect for this role. Unfortunately, we all lost a very good actor as he died shortly after this film was made.

The fighting scenes are a complete joke. The Honda/Zangief fight was basically them grappling each other and then falling through the floor. Bison's attacks are supposed to be quick, not flying at 2 MPH and having Guile just stand there waiting for Bison to hit him. I really wish I could have included some good points in this movie, but I simply can't. However, for this price, I actually would recommend that you check it out, because if you're like me, you'll have a couple of good laughs during this movie. Not because it was funny, but because at how unbelievably bad it truly was.