Despite the addition of Harry Shearer (who became a full cast member about halfway through the fifth season) and increased appearances in skits by Paul Schaffer, plus occasional stints by Peter Aykroyd, the writing in this season just failed to measure up to those in the past. In addition, Al Franken's complete inability to be funny sees a lot of wasted time during Weekend Updates and scattered skits elsewhere that should be skipped as soon as he appears on screen. While he's not the only one who should be skipped, he's the worst of the lot. Some of the additions to the cast, including Peter Aykroyd and Harry Shearer, did a great job and were about the only funny castmembers besides Bill Murray this season.

Not until mid-season do the episodes start to have more than one or two funny skits; before that time, one funny skit was about the most they could muster. The best episodes were those hosted by Burt Reynolds, Kirk Douglas, Buck Henry's second, and a few others. With the original presentation, you get to hear the F-bomb dropped by Paul Schaffer in the 100th episode skit that featured John Belushi in a guest appearance (the episode had no host); instead of "flockin'" as had been used as the gimmick the entire skit, he lets out a real F-word that surprised me quite a bit. That made the skit funny, since some of the guys clearly heard it and were trying not to react. While the season kept getting better with each episode in broad terms, knowing they would be leaving saw some of the cast clearly not put forth the same efforts as in prior seasons. Bill Murray sees the bulk of the major parts in skits, while Garrett Morris appears but little. Larraine Newman does some hilarious work at times, the best of the women this season, with Gilda a close second. Jane Curtin fell off this season, likely because of taking the load of Weekend Update each week, though she was funny in some of her character sketches.

Sadly, there are no special features worth mentioning. There are three commentaries, two by Buck Henry and the third by Elliot Gould, but they are not particularly illuminating. For instance, in the season finale, Buck notes in his commentary that even he did not understand a joke that he tells, but he does not explain it for those not in the know. The biggest flaw in this commentary is his lack of insights or anything worth hearing about the funniest sketch in SNL history to that time (only the Colonel Angus skit a few decades later comes close): the Lord and Lady Douchebag skit. No matter how many times I watch it, I cannot help but laugh myself silly, but his commentary does not really shed any light on how it came about or any of the other bits of minutia that make such audio tracks worth listening to in the first place. There are no behind the scenes features or interviews or anything else. It's just the episodes as they were aired, sans cleanup of any kind, and shows the lack of interest on the part of the studio to present a superior product.

Overall, this season is subpar. I decided on three stars because some of the later episodes are just too good to miss. However, the lack of special features and the poor quality of the video makes the set not worth the cover price. Fortunately, Amazon has the set significantly discounted, otherwise it would not be worth the purchase or the time spent watching.