On May 1st  2004, I was treated to an incredible Evening in Tampa. I had Floor Seats, and as this Concert was held in an Ice Arena, many of us were Freezing! Jon even mentioned how Cold it was while he was blowing his Hands, as was Rick. So Today I bought the 35th Anniversary Concert DVD, not knowing what to expect. If  you read the Postings on Yesworld about this final Night at Tsongas, there were  many complaints because of the Heat. This DVD is Special, Magical, Wonderful, and perhaps the best produced YES DVD ever. Right off you notice the Video quality is  Crystal Clear!. No puzzle like images that you see from Film transferred DVD's. And none of that "artistic" crap that just destroys a Concert DVD. The Sound was fantastic!  This was pure Yes at their Finest, and it might just be their last Concert we will ever see?.  I loved when Jon said he forgot the words to "Time is Time", and turned away from the Mic and said "let's do Roundabout instead". The whole group busted up, Rick was amazed! Isn't it Rick who has always played with Sheet Music, yet used none on this Tour! And no Prompter for Jon either! If I only had one wish, which is now just half a wish after seeing this great DVD, it would have been Yes releasing a DVD from their "Classic Yes 2002 Tour". I saw them playing on a dormant Volcano at Konocti in California. It was their second show back with Rick, and it was awesome!. Mistakes, yes there were a few, but it was a Classic Show & a Classic Tour. Unfortunately  I went back for their final Show in Las Vegas almost 2 Months later, and Jon had lost his voice, and the band was very tired. That's why I think so highly of this final show at Tsongas in the sweltering heat. Funny thing though, they didn't look too hot, I bet their were some portable A/C Units on stage, just for them?. Another observation,  Jon did "Rhythm of Love" differently then in Tampa. There he started up on the Stage & then just appeared walking the Floor, I actually got to touch Jon, Isle Seats do have their advantage! And that the Tsongas Concert closed with "Starship Trooper", rather than "Soon" made this concert even more special. And I did get chills when Jon said, "we're going to play our last song now",  Imagine if this truly was their last song  we will ever see or hear from the World's Greatest bunch of Musicians. As another poster so eloquently said, woo!