I was first in line to see this film last year when it opened in theatres.  I had loved the book, loved the director, and loved the cast.  I didn't know what to make of the film.  I originally found it slow, ponderous, and  nothing at all like the book that had kept me riveted for 600 pages.  I  thought the cinematography was terrific and some of the performances  (notably Elias Koteas and Ben Chaplin) were excellent.  But on the whole I  was disappointed.
Then about two weeks later I went to see the film  again.  On the second viewing, I was taken in. The battle scenes were  exciting and the visuals struck me as absolutely beautiful.  But still, I  was hesitant to give the film a glowing recommendation.  
I asked for the  widescreen edition of the video for Christmas because the more I thought  about the film, the better I liked it.  Finally the other night I watched  it for a third time...it's one of the greatest films I've ever seen and  certainly one of the best films of the past decade. The cinematography, the  battle scenes, the performances, the score, everything came together in a  riveting three hours.  I couldn't take my eyes off the screen. I found  myself awestruck, wondering how Terrence Malick could have choreographed  some of the battle scenes.  The canvas he paints is so large and so  vivid.
Some highlights: Elias Koteas as Staros, the captain with a  conscience; Ben Chaplin, the young private who daydreams of his wife back  home; the assault on the Japanese hilltop bunker; Woody Harrelson's  "big" scene; the attack in the fog; the shot of the soldier  crying in hysterics in the rain...I could on.
I do think Nick Nolte is a  little over the top and I have a difficult time understanding everything he  says, and George Clooney's cameo appearance seems a little unnecessary  though I understand Malick originally shot about six hours of film and a  lot of performances ended on the cutting room floor.  
If you have the  time and the interest, give this film a shot.  It make take you a while,  but if given the chance this hauntingly powerful film with stay with you  for a much longer time than most standard Hollywood films.