Each entry in this series attempts to create something unique. The original had momma doing the killing. The sequel introduced the man, the myth, the legend himself. Part 3 had the 3D gimmick. Part 4 had Senior Voorhees being offed by a 10 year old. Part 5 had the copy cat killer. Part 6 had the resurrection (unlike the other movies, he was actually buried). Part 7 had the "Carrie" copy cat. Part 8 took us out of the woods and into the city which brings us to Jason Goes To Hell. This movie shows us Jason the body hopper and hints at his eventual pairing with another horror movie icon from the '80s.

The movie opens with Jason stalking another screaming female through the woods ready to do what he does best. Ah but not this time oh Minister of Death. The unsuspecting Jason has been lured into a trap and 3 minutes into the movie, he's blown to smithereens. Case closed, everyone can go home. Not so fast. In the words of the great James Brown, "Jason's got a brand new bag". You see, destroying his body barely slows him down. The heart still pumps and apparently looks quite appetizing to one particular person who's performing an autopsy as he takes a huge chomp on the Lord of Lethal's heart. That chomp turns into one huge overgrown leech that inhabits the body of anyone within arms distance. Once the parasitic Jason has used a body to its full potential, it finds someone else to act as host. All of this is learned by the exboyfriend (ex husband maybe, I don't know) of a member of the Voorhees family (and the way he was informed was quite painful). It turns out that Jason will need to continue swapping bodies until he can get into the body of a family member. In this movie, there are 3. A mom, her daughter and the daughter's child. Because of his body swapping ways, the characters in the movie have a hard time determining which body is carrying Jason (though it's something the audience can easily discern because the hosts all act like lumbering zombies from "Night Of The Living Dead). We get to see Dr. Voorhees and Officer Voorhees amongst other hosts.

While I do enjoy this movie, it's been a while since I've seen it and oddly enough, I don't remember any of the kills so they must not have been too impressive. Also if I'm not mistaken, this is the only movie in which Jason is the murderer where we don't get to see his face. That's one of the things fans of this series have come to expect. Did they run out of ideas? Another thing I didn't like is once Jason actually finds one of the 3 family members, he enters her in a rather tasteless way. The movie makes up for it once the inevitable Jason death occurs. The way the death occurs isn't anything new but the effects are pretty good and then we see the great submerging of Jason and the legendary submerging of the famed hockey mask.

Overall: Good edition to the series.