I remember reading Ellis' "American Psycho" during the early 1990s.  At that time, and in my circle, only a few of us a) liked the book, b) understood its message/s, or c) identified with the characters.  When I learned of the cinematic aspirations, I was very skeptical.  Especially after finding out that the director/s were female.  I was convinced that their gender would erase some important filters which Ellis illustrated in fine literary form.  As reluctant as I was, I attended a pre-opening day screening in order to put all my worst fears to rest.  However, from the initial scene I was enthralled and impressed; almost proud of the fact that I (and a select few) had discovered this masterpiece in its purest form almost a decade earlier.  The sleek and seductive surroundings and camera angles proved to be almost as descriptive as my own imagination during that first reading.  Though, I've read countless reviews and analysis of this film, I feel compelled for the American audience to fully understand what its nature is;  what the rhetoric means, and possible states of inspiration.  O.K., most reviewers mention the comic aspects of the film/book.  From a purely characteristic perception, there is no comedy involved.  For example, Patrick Bateman (played brilliantly by Christian Bale) seemingly can't fathom a cohort attaining better looking business cards than he.  When he perceives this to happen, he goes into an obvious meltdown.  To the audience, this seems inane and comical, almost a harmless light-hearted look into the pretentiousness of the 1980s.  However, to Mr. Bateman his world is crashing down.  His ego is shattering.  And there's nothing he can do at the time except internalize his psychosis.  There's really nothing funny about that from the main character's perspective.  There isn't time or room for all of the other examples of mispercieved "dark" humour, so I shall continue with the meaning of Patrick Bateman's murderous rampage.  He collects bodies like sports coats, and thrives on the seedier aspects of urban life.  He doesn't walk-the-talk of the classic yuppie and is prone to manic breakdowns.  Herein lies the key to the film:  Patrick Bateman's fragile, eggshell mental state.  During the film, the successful audience member must ask himself, "Has Patrick Bateman actually slashed these people in his life?  Or is he freeing himself (his mind) to do so later?"  This is where Ellis truly retrieves his "psycho" in the title.  Viewed from this standpoint, the movie shall transcend its own platonic acetate, and the viewer can seemingly watch two movies simultaneously.  I won't allow myself to uncover too terribly much, as several readers probably haven't seen the film, but the final scene opens up many new possibilities for the main character.  This film sets a new standard in American cinematography, and to miss it can only leave a large hole in your entertainment life. In a word:  CLASSIC!