As I write this review, the calendar says that Thursday, May 6, is the National Day of Prayer in the U.S. and Franklin Graham is the co-honorary chair of the National Day of Prayer Task Force. He has been on numerous media outlets recently, apparently because his past comments about Muslims and the Islam faith created controversy at the Pentagon so they rescinded his invitation to speak.

What Franklin Graham thinks or believes about Muslims, however, is not important.  What's important is how God views Muslims, Christ-followers and those of other faiths. No surprise--there's a lot of confusion about what's appropriate and "tolerant" when speaking of other faiths.

Good news!  Carl Medearis, author of this important book, is an expert on Islam and lived in Lebanon for 12 years. He's a thoughtful and very interesting go-to guy on Christian-Muslim relationships. He sheds light (not heat) on the subject.

His counsel is God-honoring. He writes, "Throughout my time in the Middle East, whenever we would host interns or different youth teams at our facility, I always had one rule: Be honest, be real."

He adds, "Confess your faults. Treat others with more honor. Respect your friends' religion. Always assume that the person you are speaking with has a more holy life than you do, and treat them accordingly. Be the low man on the totem pole. Be the servant."

That heart oozes throughout his book and Medearis is the real deal.  In a very unique, conversational style (it's not academic or theologically heavy), the author covers the basics, including: Islam's six articles of faith, the five pillars, what the Qur'an says about Jesus, women and Islam, "Jesus meets Jihad," practical ways to reach out to Muslims, and much, much more.

My favorite sections: the 12 stunning "stories of faith" sidebars, like "Snakes, Bibles and the Hotel Staff," and "Bin Laden's `Cousins' Hear the Good News." You'll also appreciate his list of 21 basic do's and don'ts, his recommended reading list, a glossary of terms and eight pages of comparisons on what the Qur'an says about Jesus and other spiritual themes--with side-by-side Old and New Testament references.

If my review doesn't grab you, then visit his breath-of-fresh-air website at [...]. It's clever, inviting and very funny.  Listen to his Good Samaritan mini-talk on the homepage.