I just finished watching this miniseries.  I have never read the book, so I cannot compare it with that, but I very much enjoyed the miniseries.  However, there is one point near the beginning of the third and final episode (at about the 12:20 mark) where I got confused and thrown off for the rest of the movie; it wasn't until later when I went back to rewatch that part that I discovered where my understanding had gone off track.  I'll explain what happened below (spoiler alert).

...At about the 12:20 mark into the third and final episode, Gilbert Markham is in a coach, going to see Helen who has returned to her husband Arthur Huntingdon (after her husband sent someone to retrieve/abduct her son Arthur, Jr.).  In the coach, Markham is reading the book/diary Helen has given to him.  He reads, with her voice-over, "So began the final chapter of our marriage..."  What it is very easy to miss is that the scenes that follow are picking up the flashback to the time BEFORE Helen has fled from Arthur -- i.e., picking up the flashback once again right after the scene from Episode 2 in which Arthur said that if Helen ran away, he would always find her.  However, I got confused, and thought that this "final chapter of our marriage" was taking place after Helen had returned, and was picking up right after the scene that ended at the 11:30 mark of Episode 3 where Helen brings her son into her sick husband's room.  This led to all sorts of confusion on my part, with me ultimately thinking that Helen had fled and returned twice or something.  (Which of course led to more questions: "What was the point of her having her husband sign away the care of Arthur, Jr., when he then starts giving him wine, having him hunt birds, etc.?  When was it that she left the first time; where did she go? etc.")

My guess is that the problem stemmed from a desire on the part of the writers to end the second episode with the cliffhanger in which Helen's son is being abducted, more or less.  This seems to have necessitated their delaying a huge chunk of the flashbacks until the third episode, and thus putting pre-flight scenes AFTER post-return scenes.  I'd say it was a bad choice.  Even if one doesn't get confused at the point where I did, it's still a bit odd to invert the scenes with her husband that way.