I ordered this DVD based upon the rave reviews.  The DVD has some EXCELLENT exercises: roundhouse kicks, elbow jabs, running squats, plies and so forth, but the DVD feels choppy.

Even when you choose "quick start" off the menu, the DVD breaks up the segments in such a way that the DVD doesn't seem fluid.  Also, Lindsay stops in the middle of routines and explains positions, offers dieting advice, and so forth.

Because the DVD is so choppy, I plan to use some segments as add ons to TOTAL BODY WORKOUT by Jennifer Nicole Lee.

ALSO, there is no music or enthusiastic beats.  If you think that 30 minutes will fly by on this DVD, you are sorely mistaken.  It's like being in a quiet room, listening to an instructor, and doing exercises--not motivating at all.

Another issue I have is her abs.  Her abs are FLAT but the stomach makeup and the position of her pants makes the abdomen looks like it is bulging.  I hope she corrects that in future videos.

Update (9/23/2008):
My problems with the DVD stemmed from the "create a workout" option.  Once I chose weeks and modified the routine in those weeks I was able to get a good fluid workout.

For instance, I use either 5-6 or 7-8 and, if the exercises are too easy or too hard, I go to the menu and choose different workouts.  As it stands, I do the following workout:
Warmup
Core #5 or 6
Cardio #5 or 6
Cooldown with yoga

Altogether, my workout is about 25 minutes and I am exhausted and sore after the workout.

If your abs are strong, start at a higher level core and cardio.

Update (10/03/2008):
The DVD IS choppy.  She doesn't even tell you when you are finished with a segment; she just stops and starts talking or doing something else.  Also, in the intro, she states that she devised this program because pregnant moms TOLD HER what they needed in terms of fitness.  I personally don't understand why a woman who hasn't been pregnant would focus on pre and post pregnancy fitness.

Update (10/13/2008):
I see that on April 1, 2008, Brin posted a utube video showing her 8.5 months pregnant so I guess the test will be whether or not she will be able to keep THOSE abs after actually having a baby.  I look forward to seeing the post-real pregnancy workouts.