Well... I bought this DVD with a lot of anticipation because when I read the synopsis, I thought "Wow, what a way of putting things"... I meant... the dead returning... ALIVE? And there was more: society trying to cope with the fact that those "revenants" had to go back to their families, work, etc...

I found the approach very unusual and with endless narrative possibilities.

But after seeing the movie, I found it to be (sadly) dissapointing.

First.

Not that the story and the premisse are not great. They are. But after that the story has nothing to offer. The story starts with the incredible flow of people walking down the streets. We see the response from the authorities... the shelters... the meetings... the discussions... the first reactions from the living (all very interesting).

...But I did not see the thing I wanted to see: people asking the question I would ask (if I were to be in their place) - WHY IT HAPPENED AND HOW IT HAPPENED?... Because this is the question that frightens us the most (specially if there is no answer for it). People may argue that the film is not about the cause... but about the effect. Ok, but questioning the cause is part of the effect (and the fact that there is no answer would only add to the drama)

Second.

People came back from death (the biggest question mark over mankind)... and nobody asks what was like to be dead? Nobody explores this question? It seems like the film misses some key issues just in order to be different (but "key issues" are key issues because of some reason...)

Third.

After 50 minutes, the film looses all its steam because the story runs out of complications. So... they act bizarre... THEN WHAT? Well... they stroll every night... THEN WHAT?? Well... nobody's sure if they are the same people... THEN WHAT??? Well... they don't talk much... PLEASE!! THEN WHAT??????

This is probably the first "non-horror"-horror film (laughs) where the only abnormal story element is the strangeness of the characters (that never pays off).

Fourth.

The ending... again we have a story that is bult on a great premisse but doesn't know how to end (and cheats the viewer under a mask of subjectiveness and obscurity). We don't really know what happens at the end. The obscurity goes like this: "Oh, maybe they wrere never here..." or "Oh, maybe they were here, but no quite" or "maybe they were a contructon of the living" or "Oh, maybe blah blah blah"

But if you consider a premisse this strong (the dead are back. They are not the same and we have to deal with them) such an ending is very unsatisfying.

But I still liked the movie. And I'd still recomend it for its radical different approach on zombies (well... these are not zombies... but that's another discussion).

I just don't see the point on making a horror film for those who hate horror films (and I think there is something of this here). I am not saying this film should go after the gore we see everywhere else. There are other ways of frighten people without any gore. There are ways of taking such a strong premisse to the climax it deserved. If the screenwriter (and the director) was trying to be different just to be different... well... they missed the chance to make the horror film of the decade.

See it for yourself.