Back in the 1990's, Steven Segal and Jean-Claude Van Damme were the stars going head to head at the cinema for these types of movies. They, unlike Arnold, Bruce Willis, and Stallone, were both heavy into martial arts. Both had similiar acting styles (look mean -hit people). Both went into the straight to video route after a few under performing theatrical releases. But if Seagal keeps putting out crap like this, Van Damme might be looked upon in 100 years from now as the better of the two. He did afterall, go into sci-fi, tried more creative approaches in his movie plots and acted as if he really wanted to be an actor...he played a ex-con, a cop, a soldier,a father, even twins with more depth. Sure, he fell like Seagal in the end, but not as hard.

  Seagal, on the other hand, stayed the course with very few exceptions (except The Patriot) playing all characters the same. And somewhere in the late 1990s, tried to add a environmental message into his films, sometimes awkwardly.

  I heard, but don't know for sure, that he dated or married a Chinese lady, and this changed his movie style to the Asian themed, Asian style direction, and the choppy editing that have plagued his latest films.

  You have read the reviews of Out to A Kill so I won't go into it. But I do have suggestions for Steven if he ever reads Amazon.com

  This movie would have worked better if he was a retired professor whose son was framed. He could have married a Chinese woman. He goes to China to snoop around about his son being in jail, and kills a bad guy who is with those that are smuggling the goods. The rest of the bad guys, as well as the Chinese police, and the American police are after him until the gets to the bottom of it and proves his son's innocence.Explain somewhere in the film he was martial arts teacher at the college he taught and one time was a champion so he kicks butt realistically..

  In fact, in this movie no characters (such as his wife)that are really explained....they just come and go.The acting is terrible all around.

  Action is nice and expected, but the story actually matters and time alloted for character's personalities to come together has to happen for it to be well recieved by most people (remember Under Seige?)Then it might get a theatrical release instead of the usual straight to video hell.

  LOSE WEIGHT. Be like other stars.Take pride in yourself. When a movie is in pre-production, other stars hit the gym, go jogging, etc. George Clooney once said he got in shape by cutting back on eating and working out hard twice a day for 8 weeks or more before shooting started. Stallone trained for months before the Rocky and Rambo flicks.

  Take acting lessons. Show more emotional range and still be a tuff guy. Maybe like Bruce Willis in his later roles?

  Get rid of the long leather jackets. It makes you look like My Cousin Vinney...totally out of place.

  Do something with the hair. Anything. Tie it back like you used to if nothing else.

  Play parts that fit your age, like Clint Eastwood does.

  Practice your martial arts and get your edge back so we don't have to endure stunt doubles, slow motion, camera tricks. Be like Jackie Chan and be real.

  Your fans love you so please respect them by no longer turning out doggie-do like this.