I can't really say that this movie was as good, bad, better, or worse than I expected. All I can say is that it was much different than the movie marketers made it out to be. I certainly wasn't expecting an American Pie apparently directed toward women in their late twenties and early thirties. 
In it's bid to be a gross out comedy, it succeeded in the "gross out" factor, but as a complete movie it just didn't work. To my way of thinking, there are two types of gross out comedies:
1) Basically normal characters in the midst of unlikely, though basically feasible situations (Ex: American Pie).
2) Outlandish characters in outlandish, anything-goes situations (Ex: Dumb and Dumber).
The Sweetest Thing attempted to mix these two types of comedies, pitting basically normal characters into anything-goes situations, and ultimately failed. If you're going to have leftovers shaped into a tinfoil bird defying the laws of physics, toilets spewing water at ten times the pressure of your average firehose, and extras spontaneously breaking into a choreographed song and dance number, your main characters had better be on par with the overacting ability of Jim Carey. This set of characters could at best be considered quirky, and that does not carry an anyting-goes format. 
When not being over-the-top in action, a good portion of the movie's gross-out factor comes from the frank, explicit dialogue between the main characters. While this may have an effect on squeamish men who flee the room rather than listen to "girl talk" (we all know a few of those guys, and women for that matter), I must say it had little effect on me. Perhaps I hang out with too many women. 
One final thing that irked me was the character played by Selma Blair, simply because she didn't really need to be in the movie, except as filler. She has little to do with any of the main actions of the story, and only seems to be there at all because the director just enjoys working with Selma Blair. 
All that being said, I had to give it a couple stars because I did find myself laughing in places, if only because of the sheer stupidity of some of the scenes. While most of the movie missed, there are a couple hits along the way. Plus there are copius scenes with Cameron Diaz and Christina Applegate in their underwear. Ain't nuthin' wrong with that.