I have to admit, that I'm a huge fan of history.  Rome, to a certain extent, is less a mini-series to me and more a small field-trip into the 50 B.C. world that ended the Roman Republic and began the Roman Empire.  Overall it is quite good.  As a proviso, it definitely has adult sensibilities.  Unfortunately, it occasionally delves into a sophomoric "sex and violence" display which, instead of allowing you to really think about the mores of the society regarding sexuality and violence, simply feels like pandering.

Season 2 begins immediately after the assassination of Julius Caesar and ends with the triumph of "First Citizen" Augustus "Octavian" Julius Caesar.  The sets are lavish and Rome feels alive and bustling in the background.  While the detail is never sparse, the scope sometimes feels pressed.  There are few scenes, like Brutus and Cassius' scrounging for troops in Macedonia and the confrontation with Antony and Octavian, where you feel like this is really a part of a larger political struggle.  However, in most cases the set pieces feel almost claustrophobic.  The first season, with the fights in Gaul, the travel over the Rubicon, the voyage to Macedonia, never let you feel that Rome was the entire world.  The Second Season doesn't pull this off as effectively.

The characters are excellent.  If you don't watch yourself closely, you begin to sympathize with all of them (even the cold and detached Octavian but more on him later) and more than once I have been tempted to skip over scenes where more punishment was being lavished upon the poor Vorenus.  Sometimes I think the writers were thinking "what wretched things men are, playthings for the gods" when they were writing Vorenus.  Of course, "the gods love fools and drunkards" is the best way to sum up Titus Pullo.  "Augustus Octavian" is the big disappointment of this fantastic cast.  About a third of the way through the season, the young "boy Octavian" gets replaced with a more adult "Augustus Octavian."  While young Octavian was perhaps the intellectual and emotional heart of season 1, and I thought he was fantastic and dynamic, his successor is too emotionally thin, too detached and far too flat to be the man who became Rome's first emperor.  Not a bad actor, or even a bad character, Agustus Octavian is merely insipid.  When I watched Rome Season 1, I spent a large amount of time wondering "How does Octavian become Augustus?"  When I watched Season 2, I spent a large amount of time wondering "How did Octavian become so BORING?"

Overall, the set-pieces and characters are excellent with few exceptions.  All the characters, except for the massively disappointing adult Octavian, are fantastic.  Four stars, as despite flaws it is still superior to the majority of historical series out there... and one of the two best of this time period that I've encountered.  The other being the first season.