This depression-era tale of a simple, somewhat naive boy scout leader thrust into the complicated operations of the U.S. Senate is a humorous, likable, and ultimately inspirational drama about the courage to stand for one's principals in the face of terrible slander and corruption.

  Some political heavies are wrangling over who to select to serve out the term of a Senator who has vacated his seat near the end of a term.  The well-meaning but indecisive Governor is put under pressure to select a toady for their schemes, but then is suprisingly lobbied by his precocious children over dinner to select the "best man for the job," the leader of their Boy Rangers group, Mr. Jefferson Smith (played by James Stewart) who "can recite parts of the Declaration of Independence by heart."  A deal is struck, and the unassuming Mr. Smith is soon on a train to Washington, meeting the elder Senator from his state, suavely played by Claude Rains, and his socialite daughter Susan (as he meets her, Stewart's nervous fumbling with his hat is close to priceless).

  The patriotic Smith is in heaven touring Washington, D.C. until some cynical reporters try to lampoon him in their papers.  When Smith's simple idea to write a bill for a boy's camp on Willet Creek in his home state interferes with a graft scheme of the main political heavy (a mean, almost slimy Edward Arnold performance), sparks fly on the Senate floor.  Up against the wall, Sen. Smith and his secretary (played by Jean Arthur), a sardonic cynic who discovers her heart with Smith, orchestrate a last-minute plan to filibuster the Senate to stand for the kind of government he'd read about in civic books but is not seen too much in Washington.  The rest of the film is epic, and some of Director Frank Capra's finest moments.

  This black and white film has a kind of charming 1930's atmosphere and dialogue, but the issues dealt with are timeless, and represent pointed criticism of Congress' political processes even today, and keenly observes the at times detracting influence of media and money interests.  With the filibuster coming under criticism from majority forces in the Senate recently, an idealistic Mr. Smith is exactly what they don't want to see happen.  The People for the American Way have utilized a clip from this film in a commercial aimed to help save the filibuster, where Jimmy Stewart calls for a chance for him "to speak his peace."