This would have been a fun movie to watch if it weren't for the fact that I was expecting Vanity Fair, by William Thackery.

I disagree that it was a fast-forwarding through the book.  It was a gross misinterpretation of the book, of Becky, most specifically.

We are urged into feeling deep sympathy for poor Becky by seeing little girl Becky in all her unloved half-orphan (and then very soon, full-orphaned) state.  And as a mother to two daughters, that tugged on my heartstrings.

However - this is not the Becky Sharp that Thackery wrote about.

Becky Sharp went for the soft underbelly.

She loathed Amelia Sedley - perhaps because Amelia was so kind to her. Broken early on, Becky could not accept that kindness without resentment and rage.  Amelia's charity (which isn't seen in the movie) served to fuel Becky's contempt and hatred.  Becky's avid (and successful) attempts at making George Osborne fall for her was spurred on not only by George's initial insolence and destruction of her marital plans with Jos, but also by her anger and resentment towards Amelia.

Thackery's Becky is not a caricature - she has real depth, and although she mostly enjoys twisting the screws into Amelia's thumbs, she also can't help but pity her, and when it finally comes down to it, loses patience and pushes her towards Dobbin by revealing George's indiscretion.  It is one of her few acts of selfless kindness. It seems at this point, she is weary of the whole game. But then again, she is much older and a bit wiser.

In addition to hurting Amelia, Becky deliberately sets out to hurt many others - anyone who has slighted Becky is in danger. She mocks, mimics, and often goes for the figurative throat in an attempt to ruffle her injured feathers.

Much of her anger and feelings make sense in the context of her life, and I can almost forgive her that.  It is her treatment of her son that paints her in a more horrifying light.

In the book her utter negligence and contemptuous attitude towards her son are held up in stark counterpoint to her loving behavior towards Rawdon, Senior.  In the movie, she actuall seems mildly upset that Lord Steyne has bullied her into sending Rawdie away - placing her hand against the window, giving the boy the sweet smile.  Not so in the book.. She is relieved to be rid of him, he is a burden on her.

There's a scene where little Rawdy, drawn by the angelic sounds of his mother singing, crashes the party only  to be stifled by Lord Steyne.  This scene is grossly underplayaed.  In the book, the scene is much more poignant - the boy yearns for his angelic mother to sing to him, but to him, she is never really there - she is harsh words or utter neglect.  Steynes actions in dismissing him from her presence come across as much harsher and strident against the child's innocent lack of understanding that no matter what he does, she will never love him.

In the end, the boy gets love only from his devoted dad, and his loving aunt (and presumably uncle and cousins) who takes him in.

In the movie, Becky is played up as a spunky victim - a woman who behaves somewhat deplorably, but ever so understandingly, and that is not the woman Thackery wrote about.

I *do* have sympathy for Becky, even in the book - her life is a series of unpleasant moments, and one can understand why she treats others as she does - including her innocent child... but I don't really *like her*. The movie's Becky, by contrast, was almost likeable.  We see her as misguided, but in the end, Innocent... she has foolishly played with Lord Steyne, but never actually *wanted* the indiscretion that must accompany her debts to him.  He comes across the monster, and when Becky (in the movie) utters her innocence, we almost believe her.