Many reviewers have focused on the acting and the story as the basis for their positive reviews, but there are two scenes that really make this movie, although I think the subtlety of their connection sometimes escapes people.  Even Amazon's reviewer called the script "clunky" or some such condescending insult, making me think he missed this too.
SPOILER
The first scene occurs when Will Hunting and his posse go out on the town one night, and instead of going to their regular Southie hangouts, they hit a "Hahvahd bah".  After a series of amusing events, there is a confrontation between Will and an arrogant Harvard undergrad, Clark.  Clark, assuming Will is just some uneducated Southie scum, starts quoting from one of his history/economics textbooks, passing it off as his own thoughts, assuming that no one will recognize the true source of his words, in an attempt to impress some nearby girls.  Will, having read the same book in his free time, recognizes the passage, interrupts, and finishes it for Clark, even quoting the book title, author, and page number, and thoroughly embarrassing Clark.  Will asks, "are you going to plagiarize the entire book for me, or do you have an original thought of your own?"  The humiliated student resorts to the lame comeback that at least he'll "have a degree, and Will will one day be serving his kids fries at the drive-through."  Will responds, "at least I won't be unoriginal," and invites Clark to step outside to further "discuss" it.  Clark meekly declines, ending the scene.
The second scene occurs after Will has been recognized and bailed out from jail by an MIT professor, Lambeau.  Lambeau's two conditions for bailing out Will were that Will spend several days a week working on mathematics with Lambeau, and working in therapy with a psychologist.  However, Will inevitably proves smarter than all the psychologists Lambeau enlists, finding various ways to turn the tables and expose their own shortcomings and insecurities, rather than opening up about and dealing with his own, offending them and humiliating them to the point where they refuse to continue working with Will.  Finally, Lambeau enlists the aid of Sean (Robin Williams), his old MIT undergrad roomate with whom he has fallen out of touch over the years.  Sean, a Southie native like Will, is psychology prof at a local Boston college, and is a man living an empty, dead life, still grieving over the death of his beloved wife to cancer two years ago.  In short order, Will cruelly exposes Sean's pain, and believing himself to be the victor once again, exits the session.  But Sean is no quitter, and tells Lambeau to schedule the next session anyway.  At this session, Sean turns the tables, by telling Will essentially what Will told the arrogant Harvard student at the bar, but on a deeper level.  Sean tells Will that he's just boy, whose only experience in life comes from reading books.  Sean points out that while Will may be able to talk all about art, war, love, grief, and other aspects of life, he's never actually experienced any of it.  He doesn't know what it "smells like inside the Sistine Chapel", or what it's like to be in a war and to hold "your best friend's head in your lap and watch him draw his last breath, looking to you for help."  Will doesn't know what it's like to truly love, nor to grieve for the death that of love.  This revelation has the effect of instilling in Will a respect for Sean's intelligence and character, allowing him to finally start opening up to someone, and marking a turning point in the movie.  
Robin William's monologue in this scene is probably one of the best pieces of writing Hollywood has come up with in recent years, not for its sappiness, but for its depth, truth, and honesty, and for the clever way that it turns Will's own thoughts against him.
So, for these two scenes alone I give this movie 5 stars.  There are plenty of other funny and clever scenes that fill the gaps and complete the movie, but these are the most important two, and the ones that make it a must-see.