The film is about a man struggling with his homosexuality or impotence and the impact it has on his wife. Huh? First, Kubrick chose Cruise and Kidman and he was not unaware of the rumors. Then he pits Cruise in all the typical hetero-male fantasies: 2 beautiful women at once, lolita, hooker, someone else's wife, necrophelia and in each case there is a "reason" why Cruise cannot "perform". People complain that there is no sexual chemistry between Cruise and Kidman- but there is not supposed to be. And the strange heterosexual world of the orgy is foreign to Cruise b/c he does not have the password- but there of course is no password except to be male. Finally, he is forced to take off his "mask" at the party and reveal who he really is. He could not even pass in the environment where everyone was getting it on. He is literally made an outcast/ thrown out. The young boys on the street recognize it and call him names and he is cruised in the West Village by an older guy. Even Alan Cummings with his hyperactive Gaydar comes onto him. Cruise hides behind his "i am a doctor", or "i am faithful to my wife" but all not credible somehow. They have 1 kid and will not have more which seems perfunctary. Kidman literally goes crazy b/c she realizes her husband is not jealous of her. Why should he be? She is a beautiful and intelligent wife but he is not attracted to her. Who ditches their beautiful wife at a party with rich predators? He "trusts" her. His jealousy and dream is about the Captain and not her. Nor is he ever turned on by his naked female patients- b/c of "loyalty to his wife." Watch the movie again with this lens and you will be shocked at what you see. Kubrick tricked Cruise and Kidman into doing this movie b/c it attests to a sham marraige with the central character dealing with his own impotence or homosexuality. Their dangerous psychodrama is hidden in beautiful halls and clothes and decorum of civilized society...but it is dangerous nevertheless. He is assaulted by all the "real" men around him, the business man who goes after his wife- Kidman is turned on by him in a way that she is never turned on by Cruise, - the host of the party who does his woman in the bathroom, his band friend who has fathered 5 kids (proof of his manhood), even the Chinese business man in drag gets it up for Lolita but Cruise gets it up for no-one. Gates, long corridors, mansions are classic Kubrick/Freudian symbols for the mystery and inaccessability of the female body/crevices- and Cruise is locked out and/or lost because he lacks natures maps and keys. It is up to other people to let him in. "I am a/the doctor- let me in" "I am a friend of hers/his- let me in" "I will pay you- let me in." He is always asking to be "buzzed in"/"let in" temporarily. He is always outside the gate/door. Just like the discordant notes- that hauntingly plunks throughout the film but calls attention to itself because it does not quite fit or blend into the film- so too Cruise does not fit the life he has constructed for himself. This film will rise in importance over time- a masterpiece- that neither the critics nor the stars nor the public understood. I urge you all to see this movie again.