I will first offer background on myself. Due to the controversy among reviewers, I think this context is important. I am a student of physical anthropology and evolutionary biology, as well as a naturalist and holistic healer. I appreciate both the technical aspects of the life sciences, as well as the more integrative, right-brained, and artistic perspectives on nature and the living world. Over the last year (due to an injury that left be bedridden and later still severely limits my ability to leave the house), I've watched documentaries on nature, biology, ecology, paleontology and physical anthropology frequently - about 1 - 3 episodes or films a week, usually on Netflix streaming, sometimes on Netflix DVD. My preference is for those that have both stunning visuals and well-informed but clearly understandable scientific narration. That said, I have eagerly watched nature shows geared towards the non-scientific audience, as well as those made for children. I'm not picky, and will watch just about anything except for stuff purporting 'intelligent design' as a scientific theory (although I am a religious person, ID is essentially creationism masked as science and the films, which amount to political & religious propaganda, do not belong in the category of biology/nature documentary...I'm offended netflix even puts them there). But that's another review. I say it only to say, they are the only shows about the living world that I have ever turned off (after being tricked by the synopsis). Until now.

I am familiar with David Attenborough's work, but when I saw Life offered on DVD, I did not know about his version. I think Oprah is an admirable woman in general, and did not think anything wrong with her being the narrator. I even thought she might provide a fresh perspective that was less dry than usual, which I would not have minded at all. And I did expect to see her face, and looked forward to her engagement with the subject. I am a committed anti-racist, and go out of my way to watch films where people of color are given the opportunity to play lead or heroic roles (which are usually given to white people without even considering equally talented people of color). So I was excited to finally see a woman of color narrating a scientific documentary (if you know of any others, do tell) and I popped the disc in with an open mind, a positive expectation, and significant enthusiasm.

The cinematography is wonderful. Some reviewers have complained about much of it being in slow motion. I loved this, as it illustrates many things you cannot otherwise observe in such detail - For instance, in a scene where a lizard chases a elephant mouse, you can study the difference between the limb arrangements and mobility of reptile vs mammal quadrapeds (reptiles legs attach out to the sides making them scuttle, mammals have a more vertical stance with their limbs directly under their bodies, which offers less stability but more agility...another tribute to evolutionary variation). Life includes some of the best shots I have ever seen.

However, the epic failure in Oprah's narration floored me. Disappointment is not strong enough a word. She is reading from a terrible script. I don't know who wrote it. If it wasn't her, I can only blame her for not discarding it, as she is probably the most powerful woman in the entertainment world and could have influenced such a decision. Ultimately, I must blame the production company for allowing this to be released in such a sorry state. The script she is reading is so dumbed-down, lacking in educational information, and devoid of any references to natural selection - the very basis of undertsanding the animal world, nevermind genetics-  that I would be embarrassed to even show it at an elementary school. It is at the cognitive level of Sesame Street.

However, it is far less engaging and educational than Sesame Street. Imagine Maria, off camera, doing mystery science theater 2000, audibly struggling to read from a script. Something along the lines of  "Oooh Big-Bird. Look, at. that biiig bug...looks, like, it's going to, get-eaten! Big bugs don't sur-vive long in. the wild, Big Bird. They have, veeerrrry short. lifespans." This is really my impression, I am trying to be truthful and not derogatory toward Ms. Winfrey. The script  is more the sort of vacuous commentary unintelligent people offer regarding commercials (wheres the beef, dude?), or, at best, the sort of patronizing explanation a kindergarten teacher gives to her charges (Apples can be red or green). It is extremely subpar for the narration of a semi-scientific, family-friendly odyssey about the life in our world, and how organisms survive and reproduce.

That would be bad enough, but for some inexplicable reason, Oprah offers none of the insight, wisdom, or intelligence that has propelled her thus far. Nor does her voice offer the rich sense of rhythm and engagement I have previously come to associate with it. It is obvious she is reading a script from a page, and she reads it in low monotone, with the occasional, I-know-better-than-you patronizing tone. This is not only baffling, as you might expect. It is absolutely jarring when juxtaposed against the epic work of the cinematographers, and after a few minutes, it became very distracting. I expected an explanation of what was going on visually, by a friendly but well-informed narrator. This was not only the absence of what I felt had been promised, it was much worse. It was the relentless presence of something that felt so distinctly *off*, fake, and at odds with the filming, that I could not make myself ignore it enough to enjoy the amazing visuals I was seeing. I hate to say it, I did not want it to be true, but I found Life to be  truly unwatchable. After about 10-15 minutes of optimistic struggling, the narration became such an impediment, I turned it off.

Though to my knowledge, this was not obviously advertised as a children's show, I believe that very young children would enjoy it. Even some grade school children. For that, and for the cinematography, it gets 1 star. It gets another star for just existing and offering a black, female narrator. I think that is important.  I considered giving 3 stars because of this, but ultimately did not feel that reflected the truth, considering my general tolerance for variation in nature films, and my inability to watch one episode of this one straight through.

Who really suffers as a result of this mismanagement? It doesn't do any wonders for Oprah's reputation, but she can afford not to care. I imagine many families of color would purchase this for their children, because the phenomenon of a black woman narrating a big-budget Nature documentary series is a seminal achievement in America (sadly this is still true in our day and age). But those kids, though they will benefit from knowing she achieved this role, and will enjoy watching the animals, will have to go somewhere else to get educational info about biology, ecology, or zoology.  And they deserve both representation and education at the same time. Considering the competition in science-realted professions, their rise in the global market, and the failures of the american public school system, particularly when in reference to children of color, it behooves any role model to provide American children with scientific information to bridge the educational gap that is created by underfunding, discrimination, poverty, and the general "dumbing-down" of America that targets the lowest common denominator.  Life should have been the antithesis of such dumbing-down, but instead it is a prime example.

Nevermind how the veritable trashing of Life by the scholarly will effect these kids, for whom Oprah represents a significant example of success, intelligence, and triumph over obstacles. Are there no scientists of color they could have casted? I suppose they thought Americans would only care about a black narrator who was "famous". This might well be sadly true, but she could have partnered with one, interviewing such a person throughout the film, asking them questions and drawing information out of them. That is, in fact, what Oprah does professionally.

Unfortunately, the American version of "Life" amounts to little more than a lot of pretty pictures and a wasted opportunity. Hopefully all involved in it's production will learn something from this mistake, even if the audience doesn't.