The Boondock Saints is rich with symbolism and pop culture disdain, while making a statement that things have gotten out of control with a film that got out of control.  The irony is steep, intention and not, throughout the film and the backstory.

Up front and center, I liked the movie.  It ranks with the better films in a genre that arguably owes homage to Reservoir Dogs.  The Tarantino elements are rich and clear, but not ripped off - a clear distinction for me. Duffy created a wild picture full of violence, but where he parted ways with Tarantino was in the significance of life in South Boston.  These people are victimized by crime and shoddy policemanship and every day is an exercise in futility.  Duffy brings to the screen the drama that answers the question, "what would you do about it?"

The brothers, two tough Irish kids have enough when assaulted and nearly killed by pissed off Russians.  Something snaps inside them, something religious and right, something straight out of the worst war of heaven.  They take this religion and make it a religion of violence, exacting revenge against the mob for injustices done to every Irish mother and daughter, son and father, throughout blue-collar Boston.  It's not realistic, but it's realism, the dream that tough kids wanting to make a difference share throughout our violent society.

Where Duffy really makes his mark, however, is in the freedom of artistic excess he portrays.  The FBI agent is gay and crossdresses.  The funny man hates his mob bosses and tells particularly unfunny jokes.  The cops are clowns, but not intentionally, it's just a system they don't think they can make a difference in.  The gags aren't funny so much as ironic, like the brothers falling through a ceiling into a mob meeting, hanging upside down accidentally tangled in ropes, yet still succeed in their mission.  Mission Impossible meets Hannah Barbara with an R-rating and blood splatter.

Irish Catholicism seeps through the pours of these brothers and this film, centering on cathedrals and confessionals, and a prayer that guides their murderous ways.

And shepherds we shall be

For Thee, my Lord, for Thee

Power hath descended forth from Thy hand

That our feet may swiftly carry out Thy command

So we shall flow a river forth to Thee

And teeming with souls shall it ever be

In nomine Patri, et Filii, et Spiriti Sancti

I only regret that Duffy destroyed the chances for this film to be legendary by biting the hand that feeds, so as to speak.  He could've had it all, and it could've been to our benefit.

C'est La Vie.

 - CV Rick