Dear Mr. Firth,

I wonder if you read Amazon reviews written by your ticket/dvd buying fans?  If so, I write this directly to you.  First, I love your work and I am a true fan.  I go to your movies and have quite a large collection of dvds beginning with Another Country and Apartment Zero to the King's Speech and now Main Street.  I thoroughly enjoyed your performances in movies such as The Advocate, Fourplay, When She Found Me, The Truth Lies, The Last Legion and the St. Trinian's series, as well as the movies that were bigger here in the states like Bridget Jones, Love Actually and Mamma Mia!.  But what I do not understand is What Were You Thinking when you accepted work on the wonderful and beautiful The King's Speech and Main Street at about the same time?

I understand that, as an Englishman, you are probably resentful of all the American actors who have played Englishmen and destroyed your beautiful language.  But was it really necessary to inflict such terrible revenge on the people who have loved you and been so loyal to you that they, like me, will actually go to, or purchase, a movie purely because you are playing a main, or even ensemble character?  I'm a native Texan so maybe I'm more sensitive than many, but watching and listening to you play Gus LeRoy was physically painful.  The contortions your mouth went through were so unsettling that my daughter had to leave the room because she said you were "creeping her out".  While your overall performance, aside from your voice, was not bad, the material you had to work with was TERRIBLE and I can't imagine why you would choose it, other than the perk of having what I assume was a very comfortable working wardrobe (jeans, shirt, sport jacket).  Did you lose a bet or owe the producer a favor?

I can't believe you need the money so badly that you did it just for that.  Please Mr. Firth, can you tell us What Were You Thinking when you not only agreed to star in a movie where the characters were not fleshed out enough that we could really care about them, the story line was slow, boring and went nowhere, and an excellent ensemble of very fine actors were wasted.  Are there wonderful scenes sitting on the cutting room floor?

Unfortunately, I have to put this movie in the same category of a few others I have watched from beginning to end thinking that my favorite actor wouldn't put me through such a horrible movie without there being some redeeming value at the end - and then sadly there was not.  Powder (Jeff Goldblum, what were you thinking), the Ice Storm (Kevin Kline, what were you thinking?) and now Main Street.

It just makes me sad.