Hill Street Blues started out as twice-a-week (Thursdays and Saturdays!) mid-season filler for perennial loser NBC before the network decided to stay with it while it built an audience!

The 17-episode first season was some of the grittiest drama even seen on the small screen, as we got to know the regulars of Hill Street Station (yeah!, I know it's thought to be set in Chicago but putting together pieces of Officer "Cowboy" Andy Renko's dialogue, a case can be made for West Patterson, New Jersey) and characters (one timers and recurring) came and went on both sides of the law. For reasons best known to Producer Steven Bochco, that "gritty look and feel of the first season fell by the wayside in the six subsequent seasons as the show became more character-driven.

Before we came to love ace undercover Detective Mick Belker as the devoted son to his unseen parents, a caring and heart-breaking loner, this was clearly a man with major issues which bordered on the carnivorous if not cannibalistic!

And then there was John "J.D." LaRue, a train-wreck of a loser in a sluiceway of alcohol and get-rich schemes (I actually thought the "saloondromat" idea had promise) who, with Precinct Captain Frank Furillo, provided one of the great lump-in-the-throat TV moments in the first season finale. ("Hi, J.D.")

The first season's Product Details cites "Episode commentaries," but don't identify who... kinda important I'd think since so many of the key actors... Michael Conrad, Ren&eacute; Enr&iacute;quez, Kiel Martin, Trinidad Silva... are no longer with us.

But, on the otherside of the coin, now-familiar faces seen in that memorable first season include Steven Bauer, David Caruso (who went the seven season distance as Tommy Mann, gang leader of the Shamrocks), Andy Garcia, Mark Metcalf, Dan Hedaya, Robert DoQui, Lynn Whitfield, Louis Giambalvo, Andrea Marcovicci, Tony Plana, Clayton Rohner, Dolph Sweet, Timothy Daly, Michael Tucker, Mimi Rogers, Charles Hallahan and James Remar.

A classic TV show in more ways than one, not the least of which is that it marked the turn-around for NBC which lasted for the next 20 years.