If you are reading this review, chances are that you are as familiar with the story of Ebenezer Scrooge as you are with The Wizard of Oz. Who doesn't know the classic tale? Did you know the story of A Christmas Carol has been filmed over 200 times, the first film being made in 1908? Adaptations have run the gamut, from strict adherence to the story to the irreverent (Blackadder's Christmas Carol, 1988) and the modern (Scrooged, also 1988.) 
Assuming you are already familiar with the tale, what makes an adaptation superior? Any story well known enough to have practically risen to the status of folktale is at risk of being so familiar its message becomes tired if not presented compellingly. On the surface, the broad plot action of A Christmas Carol might be summed up in the sentence: Scrooge gets scared straight. The challenge of any adaptation is to impress the audience of the personal joy that inhabits anyone who embraces generosity and kindness - we can all deduce that the lives of Bob Cratchit's family will improve financially, and that the poor in general will benefit from Scrooge's transformation: but what about the man himself? The beauty of the tale is of a bitter man who, in the end, really is given more than he can ever give. Even extremely liberal adaptations like Scrooged understood this: the real message in that film was summed up by Bill Murray in the closing sequence, where he tells his audience that once you start giving, you'll get a wonderful feeling, and "You'll want it EVERY DAY."
The film must inspire us to do likewise, not to mention entertain us along the way. Think the muppets are just for kids? Wrong! There's enough sophisticated humor embedded in this film to give anyone a laugh, largely provided by its narrators, The Great Gonzo (as Dickens) and his sidekick, Rizzo the Rat. There are other detail changes to the old story slipped in to spice up the old tale for those familiar with it - just hearing the august Michael Caine sincerely utter the line, "Why, it's Fozziwig's old rubber chicken factory! I had my first job there" is enough to set us laughing.
Let's talk about the ghosts. A successful adaptation has just got to have good ghosts, and the presentations here are wonderful. Christmas Past is represented by an ethereal child, voiced wonderfully; Christmas Present is the most welcoming spirit, voiced marvelously by Jerry Nelson (a muppet veteran) - these are the speaking spirits, and both are stunning muppet creations. True to tradition, Christmas Yet to Come does not speak, and manages to be chilling and stern without being too frightening to children (this creation is faceless, and for some reason that spooks grownups more than kids.)
Michael Caine is an absolutely fantastic Scrooge, very human and real. It's no small feat to interact realistically with non-human counterparts - even if they are the wonderful muppets - and Caine does this with vigor, gusto, and humility. 
The only weak spot in the film is the detail on Scrooge's lost love; no one really seems to do this well. It's not very interesting for children (uck, the kissing stuff!) and it's too tired for adults. This section of the film also sports the only disappointing musical number (the rest are great.) Don't let this stop you, though - it's brief.
Why such a long review for the muppets? Because I think Brian Henson is simply doing the best family filmaking out there today. As I stated in a review of Muppet Treasure Island, such films must have appeal for all family members, and A Muppet Christmas Carol is no exception. Make it part of your family tradition this year.