so the movie itself it first class first of all - innovative, extremely hard to follow and requires several viewings. the way the dvd's are produced is another thing - the film itself as well as all the options and extras are all kinda like easter eggs that you have to find. the disc itself only specifies the actual features i.e. the nice sundance channel documentary, the original short story memento mori, the trailers and picture gallery, but you have to pay a lot more attention to find the really hidden easter eggs, and boy the dvd doesn't make it easy to find them, even if you found instructions on the web of how to locate them!
the most important easter egg is the film in reverse sequence, i.e. in the realtime chronological order of the scenes - very nice to watch but only after you've seen the original sequence of the feature. another easter egg is a couple of japanese posters for the film and a nearly impossible to read journal made by leonard (i couldn't read any of it, maybe you need a hi-def tv for that...)
but for me the best easter egg is the alternate director's commentaries. basically for the last 20 minutes of the commentary track, there are 4 separate commentaries by the director. i won't tell you how to find them (and not many website will) but needless to say they are so hard to find that i still haven't managed to listen to one of those 4 commentaries. the first one is a continuation of the commentary from the rest of the film, i.e. talking about the movie etc., two other commentary tracks concern teddy's character with opposing views about him in each track. this is a fantastic idea because different people will hear different commentaries about teddy (assuming they've found the easter egg) and will draw different conclusions about him, and then in some hypothetical debate they'll go head-to-head with those who'd heard the opposing commentary track, if you know what i mean. finaly the fourth alternate commentary is the most interesting just because it's recorded backwards! i'd love to hear what's being said about it but to do that you'd need to record the track on a tape deck and then play it in reverse... not quite sure how to do that nowadays since i don't even own a tape deck but it would be interesting to hear what's on it.
i also read that none of the bonus features from the original one-disc dvd are included in this special edition 2-discer so that's a shame, but then again all those easter eggs will eventually drive you insane anyway so no need for even more extras!
a couple of final notes, apart from the alternate commentaries, the actuall full-length director's commentary can become tedious just because he never shuts up and just moves from one idea to another without any break in between them, and he doesn't always sound very clear with his low british accent voice. finally guy pearce in great in this movie and boy was i surprised to learn he's the guy from Priscilla Queen of the Desert! Great acting altogether and amazing editing.