The legend that is the basis for "The Crow - Salvation" claims that when a person dies, there are times that the emotional burden they carry is too much to bring into the land of the dead.  In these cases, their souls are returned to the land of the living by a crow and reunited to their bodies, so they can tie up the loose ends.  This premise is a wonderful setup, with many opportunities for variety, emotion, and even a little action.
When the major character in the film has returned from the dead to take care of unresolved emotional issues, you would expect a film with heart.  You would expect soul-searching, pain, anguish, and redemption in every corner.  Indeed, this is what made the original "Crow" such a wonderful film, and the potential is here, as well.  The final film, however, appears to be the result of conflicting visions.  
Chip Johannessen's screenplay has all the emotional potential of the first film, in all of its painful beauty.  When, at one point, a character wishes to be dead, the hero uses one of his special abilities to show just what it would be like, telling her that this is not what she wants.
Quite often, though, director Bharat Nalluri seems to downplay all of this, shooting it as if he didn't care, using the crude and gritty hand-held camera when slick and atmospheric would have definitely been better to create the feeling of pathos.  Instead, he turns his attention once again to the action, where "City of Angels" also got lost.  Why is it that Hollywood is less afraid of bullets than it is of tears?  What is worse is that Nalluri barely even can choreograph a decent fight scene, so the impact is entirely lost there, as well.  I should also mention in honor of a friend that a helicoptor explosion is featured, and well done, though it hardly redeems the scene, or the movie.
What is even more bizarre are the performances.  Dunst, once so good at darkness in "Interview with the Vampire", appears to have been in too many sunny teenage movies and forgotten how to be depressed and sullen.  Eric Mabius, as well, seems to hit one, maybe two, notes in his performace as Alex Corvis - rage, and anger.  Throughout the entire movie he looks irritated, even when he should be showing some signs of humanity.
The plot, as well, is a bit muddled, with logic and common sense taking back seat, just so we can get the the fighting a little bit faster.  There are characters introduced who *could* be threatening, but are merely bizarre oddities.  I found myself missing Michael Wincott's memories of his father as the villian in the original.  I missed the strong sense that film had of who was who, and why they each did what.  Again, in a movie where emotions are the beginning, why are they so easily ignored?
When first finding information on this movie, I was a little excited.  Maybe they would get it right this time, maybe gold could be struck twice.  It's not that difficult a formula.  It just seems that they missed the point again.