I first came across this movie whilst surfing the internet, and based on previous reviews, i was compelled to watch it, since i had watched Amadeus, and would like to have this movie as a companion film. After a whole month of scouring most of the DVD shops for the DVD/VCD of this movie and to no avail, i ordered my copy here, and i must say that i have not regretted my purchase.
Being a music student, this film has opened the world of Beethoven to me, and thus began a greater and deeper appreciation of his sublime works. This film not only focuses on Beethoven's music, but also about his troubled love affair, his "immortal beloved", to whom he had dedicated his entire estate. I was also very impressed with Gary Oldman's remarkable and outstanding performance as the deaf composer. His versatility as an actor has truly paid off in this movie.
Be prepared for quite a few scenes in this movie that might just tear your heart apart. The scene in which Beethoven places his head on the piano, just to feel the vibrations of the piano strings as he plays the languidly beautiful "moonlight" sonata is heartwrenching, for we sense, deep down, the composer's frustration. How is it possible for a composer so talented to be unable to hear his own compositions, music that words alone cannot describe?
Director Bernard Rose surely saves the best for last. Unforgettable is the sequence where Beethoven, in the concert hall during the premiere of the Ninth Symphony, has flashbacks of his childhood, where the young Beethoven escapes from his house and runs through the woods (such wonderful scenery!) accompanied by the finale of his "Choral" symphony. Viewers will be emotionally transfixed to the screen, totally absorbed in the enrapturing music.
Last but not least, and my most favourite scene of all, is the "finale" of the movie, where the true identity of Beethoven's "immortal beloved" is revealed. The 2nd movement of the "Emperor" piano concerto is played, as an excerpt of Beethoven's letter to the Immortal Beloved is read out (by Oldman). Such passion manifested in the words, together with the searchingly beautiful Adagio and the heartwrenching scene arouse such emotion and beauty that one will inevitably reach out for a tissue. 
A highly recommended movie to rewatch over and over again. Do get the soundtrack as well, with recordings done by Sir Georg Solti with the London Symphony Orchestra, and featuring guest players such as Yo-Yo Ma, Murray Perahia, Emanuel Ax and more. A unique love story that will leave us in tears, but our hearts warm and fuzzy at the end.