Overall Summary:

I exerted the least amount of force I possibly could by clicking my remote and downloading this movie to my TV and it was still a waste of my energy. Unless you're an Affleck fan or a city of Boston fan, I don't recommend renting this movie.  There are much better crime/police thrillers. Watch Out of Sight, The Usual Suspects, or Heat again instead.

Details:

I saw an interview where Affleck said he actually talked to Charlestown inmates and so I was interested to see this film.  I expected some authentic perspective about bank robberies, the people who plan them and how they are executed.  Sorry, there is very little of that and whenever it comes up and the movie starts getting interesting...it goes away quickly.

The Town has an identity crisis, it doesn't know whether it wants to be a gritty crime thriller or a sweet love story.  I think someone must have pitched it as the perfect date movie but unfortunately, it doesn't do either very well.  This is because The Town would rather take large chunks of time for heavy handed and cliched dialogue scenes that seem to go on forever.  I mean seriously, at one point there is a violin playing when the main character is walking into prison to see his dad.  "Cue the violins" is a punch line to a joke, not the direction for a scene.  Every plot point is so telegraphed that you just want the movie to hurry up and end.

With the exception of Pete Postlethwaite (RIP), none of the actors feel correct in their roles and most of their performances are over the top (and not in a powerful Al Pacino way).  Yes people, this includes Jon Hamm.

Not to get too technical but the most surprising bad decision in this movie was to go with such a boring film look.  Get ready for some bland color correction and uninspired cinematography.  Where is the swagger?  Where is the attitude in this movie?  Why are most of the scenes filled with sunshine and happiness?  Was I watching Wedding Crashers or a down and dirty thriller?

Conclusion:

It's a good story but poorly executed.  Don't believe the hype, Affleck is not the next Bryan Singer.  He is still Ben Affleck.