"A thing worth having, is a thing worth cheating for."

That may be true, Great Man, yet I am sorry to admit that I could never try to cheat this set to me. Having done such an exquisite job restoring the rest of the very best of one of the most side-splitting and original funny-men to ever enter the screen, Universal deserves all the credit they can get. Not quite as much credit as the man who made it all possible in the first place, though: W.C. Fields!

The debate as to which film is the best in this set seems to vary to such a tremendous degree that I'll not bother to try telling you which one to watch first. MAN ON THE FLYING TRAPEZE, YOU'RE TELLING ME!, THE OLD-FASHIONED WAY--if you appreciate golden humor from the golden era in the least sense, you can't go wrong with any of these. NEVER GIVE A SUCKER AN EVEN BREAK is also terrific, despite what some may say. The only bit of a letdown to me was POPPY, which focused too much on the difficult love affair between a boy and the daughter of the Great Man than the Great Man himself (he's as hilarious as always, no worries; I just wish he could be seen more in it). There's a little documentary from the mid-1960's as a bonus on one of the discs, covering his life and (mostly) career through clips from his films. Sadly, the doco has not aged one tenth as well as the films it presents, but is nevertheless charming to the fan. Just don't try to introduce the unaqcuainted with it.

Fields does not seem to appeal to everyone. I, for one, had a hard time figuring out what this "Great Man" was all about for a while. Thankfully, I was patient, and now I am completely addicted; I can't get enough of this outstanding comic genius. His style is so delicately spontaneous and lacks every trace of self-absorbness that you may not recognize at first that only a true craftsman could do it. So if you happen to be one of those "jabbernowls" who don't appreciate his brand of comedy; Give Him An Even Break, will ya.

Best of all, Fields taught me to laugh at the pains of troubled family life, to recognize the absurdity which an argument of incomprehensible threats and acusassions actually possesses. Thank you ever so much.