I've read Garland's novel and I must say that it's a difficult exercise to adapt this novel for the screen. But in general, I think that the adaptation Boyle and his team made was rather good. The movie reviewers  have tried to kill this film, I don't know why... Maybe because they didn't  really understand it.... Cause The Beach goes in many directions, it's a  movie on which it's not easy to stick a label... It's not an adventure  movie, nor an action movie... neither a love story, nor an "art et  essai" film, it's maybe all those categories... and probably the  reason why this movie "failed" with large audiences...  
The  Beach is a sort of metaphor... It tells the story of a quest... a quest for  humanity and above all a discovery of how human beeings can become when  they want to protect their selfish "little universe"... and how  they react when they are confronted with the reality... Different themes  are broached : utopia of a better world, death, honesty, betrayal, madness,  sectarianism, violence, drugs... It's also a bitter critic of our way of  life, of our western culture and of our incompetence to escape from it... A  critic also of the american hegemony... 
Well... technically, The Beach  is a wonder... The french Darius Khonji has, as usual, put all his talents  in the cinematography and captured all the beauties of Thailand... The  soundtrack is completely adapted with Danny Boyle's way of filming;  dynamic, going from one scene to another, abrupt, rough... Actors-wise, the  british actors Paterson Joseph (Keatty) and Tilda Swinton (Sals) deserved  longer roles, the french Guillaume Canet as well... But their characters in  the novel are not very developed either so... The rest of the cast  (Swedish, danish, spanish actors) are good... and the brief scenes with the  extraordinary Robert Carlyle (playing Daffy) are pure pleasure to watch  (certainly a pleasure for him too)... 
Well, and DiCaprio ? He proves,  once more in this film, if needed, what a talented actor he is. Maybe the  young girls who felt in love with his Jack Dawson in Titanic or with Romeo  will be disappointed here... His character is not a romantic but rather an  envious, lying, selfish young man... a complex character like DiCaprio  loves them... (see his wonderful performance in BaskeytBall Diaries, Total  Eclipse or This Boy's Life among others...). I wish him other interesting  parts like this one.
In conclusion : The Beach, even if it's not a  masterpiece is a really good movie to discover... if you're not allergic to  the films that are a little different than the ususal ones.
Bye... and  excuse my hesitating english... my mother tongue is french !