What is music these days? Is it something you listen to in order to lose yourself in the ecstasy of music without giving much thought, only to be done with it in a week or two? Or is it still a long lasting art-form? Where you have the patience and mind to observe what an album is really trying to tell you and hear what hidden beats are buried in each song every time you give it a listen. Wilco's music is music that lasts. You don't have to be a fan, but pretty much everyone I've introduced to them (that has the patience to listen) has become a fan to a certain extent. We now currently live in a culture where people almost completely rely on corporations to tell them, what is "hot" in the world of music. Albums sponsored by stores/companies, television commercials and channels dedicated to selling their newly created pop-star, and videos paid to be put in the front of YouTube. This movie is about Wilco making their new album in the beginning of this new marketing age.

After 6 years of playing with his band: Wilco, Jeff Tweedy is still rocking and wouldn't mind having the success he once had with Jay Farrar in his previous band: Uncle Tupelo. Or at least make enough money to support his family. Breaking off from their previous "alternative country-rock" genre, Wilco begins to explore new territory in their music, and create what many fans consider to be the best album of their career. The new management in Reprise records see differently though. This album does not meet the business plan, there isn't a song that could be used as a single, and they surely are to lose their "alternative country-rock" audience, right? Having a band a part of Reprise records that gained it's fame the old fashioned way, does not look good for now. More resources need to be allocated towards the new "artists". So Reprise asked if they could make changes to the album, Wilco said "No" and the Reprise dropped Wilco.

The film itself is shot in true Rockumentary fashion, taking notes from "Don't Look Back", the infamous documentary about Bob Dylan; while having a much more focused insight to the band's personal lives and album making process. The band (Jeff Tweedy especially) is very comfortable with the camera being around. Because of this, you gain very personal insight to their lives. The dissolving work relationship of Jeff Tweedy and Jay Bennett, Jeff throwing up due to his migraines he's had since childhood, and the financial woes of Mr and Mrs Tweedy not having enough money to buy their kids food at Wendy's. This film is a must see for Wilco fans, and I ask the non-Wilco fans to give this movie, and their music a chance.