The idea of this film is 60 Minutes type interviews of members of the Manson family with the memory flashbacks of the scenes played out like an actual "Riot on Sunset Strip" type B-film. The flashback scenes were filmed in the late 80s, the modern day interview scenes were filmed in the late 90s if not in 2000. If you have a look at that or just youtube Something Weird Video and look at their 60s hippy acid flicks you'll see roughly the same thing. The only thing that really hurts this movie is the useless subplot of stereotypical late 90s Columbine-ish kids listening to industrial music, dressing weird plotting to kill. It doesn't help the film at all and really drags it down.
  As corny as this movie can be, if you can view it with a sense of humor you'll find this movie is either pure genius or accidentally good. The older scenes in the movie were pretty much an entirely separate and meant to stand as their own film, Van Bebber waking up from a decade of stagnant alcoholism went back seeing a cheesy movie and worked it into some far more restrained realistic scenes. And I'll repeat myself, a mock TV documentary like musicians reminiscing on Woodstock with mock 60s footage to match.  It works well, its gory and cheesy and trash cinema yes but if you look a bit closer its got a raw power to it. With all these directors trying to ape the old trash cinema style, like Rob Zombie  or take your pick really, Jim Van Bebber actually gathers it together and makes it into art instead of a throwaway night at the movies. And if you're a Deadbeat at Dawn fan this shouldn't disappoint.
  The extras on this disc are very revealing. My personal favorite was this film showing at a horror fest which in my opinion is depressing. I can understand if there were films like Bad Taste or Evil Dead 2 or anything remotely resembling talent but movies like Aftermath, the utterly terrible Dust Devil and some unfinished POS by a "director" that starts crying (he's asked some simple direct questions by some critics who just viewed some unedited soundless footage of bad latex/karo syrup effects) is sad sad sad. Jim Van Bebber's film deserved a better wider audience but if he's stuck in cinema ghetto its his own fault. The other documentary shows Van Bebber pretty much falling to pieces after Deadbeat At Dawn filming the first half of this film, then drinking, losing partners, his studio, everything from just drinking. He finally the finishes the movie a decade later, if there's ever been a film to warn against overindulgence of mind altering chemicals its right here! It really had an effect on me, drinking alot myself the time I saw it. That and the lone junkie outlaw filmmaker who pops up at the end of the festival doc, only he's awesome, really.