We can all agree that the movie itself is either a hot or cold response as you either take it for what it is, or you just don't find much to like about it. But I'd like to talk about the package you are buying more than the movie you'll watch (on DVD or BluRay).

The first round of DVDs released early on in the dawn of DVDs were very good. Even Magical Mystery Tour looked and sounded great. But, it was just another way to watch your favorite Beatles movies. VHS/Beta/Laserdisc/CED formats all covered most of their films. They even issued video CDs of their movies. I even bought a Quicktime movie version of A Hard Day's Night back in the day. That day wasn't so long ago but it seems it now - 1993? But with each subsequent format came subsequent releases on said format. DVD was just the latest format back in the late 1990s. Video compression schemes' quality varied company to company and has been constantly improving since the advent of DVD. But a DVD can only hold 10mbps of information within it's "stream" of digital content. So no matter how well you could compress the video, it could only ever be "so good". BluRay, which is a high definition format, changes the game yet again. It forces every movie release to be improved upon to the best possible quality possible. As a result, even the DVD release looks better than the 1999 version of this movie on DVD because the master was of the highest quality.

Sound-wise, 5.1 or stereo doesn't change much, for this movie. But it does offer you choices of audio so you can't go wrong audio-wise. I recall the "official" VHS release of MMT and the first remixing of the soundtrack (at least the songs) done by George Martin specifically for the release. It sounded better than ever! So no surprise this release sounds great. VHS as you may recall delivered very high end Hi-Fidelity Stereo sound. But for those who prefer a good 5.1 surround sound, you won't be disappointed. It delivers! It delivers in DTS and Dolby Digital as well on the BluRay as well as a stereo PCM track. (PCM - Pulse Code Modulation) offers the listener the highest possible audio reproduction for the home shy of having the master tapes.

As for the Printed items, again it delivers. Like I said before, this movie has been delivered on several formats several times each before. From bootlegs to official releases the content of the film has been available for quite some time. So to just release the movie isn't such a big deal to me which is why this set was so attractive to me. To have the reprint of the booklet that came with the LP back in the day as well as an expanded version of information and rare "behind the scenes photos" makes this set a nice addition to your Beatles collection. Even if you have the miniature version of the booklet which was contained in the 2009 stereo & mono remasters or the 1993 EP Box Set, this is a great way to see it large again like in the LP.

I already came across a perfect copy of the original vinyl EP years ago at my favorite record store. So really, that didn't do much for me, but most people do not have this so its inclusion is a real treat! For those in the states (or who didn't have access to imports from England) this was how Brits got this new music. So its inclusion is really a part of the package - film & music - that England got to judge this movie and its music from. They didn't get to also have the whole second side of an album with classics like Penny Lane, Strawberry Fields Forever and All You Need Is Love.  In the UK, Strawberry Fields & Penny Lane were released a year prior to MMT. In the states we got spoiled as we had the album with a whole collection of great non-soundtrack songs and since we didn't see the film on TV, we imagined for years what the movie had to be like from the music. So this helps put it into historical perspective as a set. (I won't be playing my vinyl though. I haven't played my original EP either).

Since all things can be improved upon, the only thing they could have done better was to do what they did for the 2007 re-release of HELP! with a deluxe book and two discs. I love that release with the fun replica objects and hand-written lyrics etc they placed within the book. (Something you can't get from a Kindle version). But this film isn't long enough to warrant 2 discs. The special features and the movie are each 53 minutes long. But the special features are new! They include new interviews and scenes which were cut from this film. So for those of you who feel they didn't really edit this movie well, check out the stuff that didn't make it! lol But again, HELP! was HELP! and this is totally different kind of movie - Free Form and rather non-linear. It tries to be linear in parts to appease the masses, but really, it wanders from idea to idea, much like a Monty Python sketch show. lol But it's nitpicking as there really isn't anything wrong with what the did do here with this release. I just like that style of books.

As for Bonus stuff and extras, the real stand out extra is the commentary by Sir Paul himself (who was more of the director than anyone else for this project). His insight, though defensive of the film, adds a new layer of how to watch this film and what to watch for when viewing it subsequent times. It helps give perspective and sets the stage, so to speak, for viewing this film in context of how it was made and why they made the choices they did.

Let's face it, you're not even considering this set if you aren't a Beatles fan. Not at the price! So anyone who isn't already a fan is going to look for the stand alone DVD at the lowest price, if they are even curious. So for a Beatles fan, this is a must! It's just the way they should have honored their work. Put it into perspective and tell the story the way the Beatles want to tell it. Critics have already had their chance.

I now hope A Hard Day's Night get the same respect and treatment as Yellow Submarine, Mystery Tour & HELP! have. If the Beatles were actually more hands on with the animated feature, Yellow Sub, I'd expect more than just a few nice reprints included in that package. But they did that release right as well. And I can't wait until Let It Be gets the first class treatment it deserves!