I disagree thoroughly with some here who have slated Diamonds Are Forever. I've seen most of the Bond movies and all the Connery ones except for Never Say Never Again (which I understand was not so hot), and "Diamonds" rates easily among my top five favorite Bond flicks.

Other than for the fact that he was a little paunchier than usual, Sean Connery played James Bond just about right. He was realistic rather than bored, gritty and down-to-earth with a commanding on-screen presence. The witty lines were witty and Charles Gray was the most credible, entertaining and three-dimensional Blofeld of all.  I don't agree with critics who say he didn't seem menacing enough. He didn't have to seem menacing. He had to BE menacing. To command authority in an evil empire, you have to appeal and reassure, not frighten. I think he understood that.

Donald Pleasance (YOLT) was lame by comparison and Telly Savalas (OHMSS) lacks the supercilious but subtly threatening quality that Gray oozed. Jill St. John played Tiffany Case well (more credibly in fact than the lead lady, Diana Rigg, in OHMSS (who everyone lauds to the skies), and the support cast generally did a fine job.

The actor who was cast as Felix Leighter played his part okay. Why some reviewers think he didn't is possibly because he appears weirdly distant at the airport when he meets Bond, but that's how he's meant to be because Blofeld's men are watching them and they can't let these men see that they know each other. He might have been a little more dramatic, and yet I can imagine Leighter behaving that way in real life.

'Q' was up to his usual tricks, and 'M' was his usual dour and grumpy self.

Guy Hamilton's direction was smooth and slick. The editing (except for a couple of rough edges) was excellent, and the script was easy to follow, engrossing and generally well-written.

The storyline was good. I enjoyed the locations, especially the Vegas scenes and the car chase was superb. The music score was a typically good John Barry effort.

All in all I was well entertained. So what more could I ask for?

I have noticed that those who didn't like Diamonds Are Forever tend to make a lot of comparisons with other Bond efforts, whereas DAF really needs to be regarded differently from the rest to be fully appreciated.  It's razamatazz Bond complete with five star luxury hotel scenes, bimbos, gambling and....of course...the smell of money  -- more so even than other Bond films. Clearly the director was trying to evoke that glitzy Vegas feel, and in this he succeeded. It's also a fun Bond that refreshingly, and unlike Dr. No or From Russia With Love, doesn't take itself too seriously. If you're looking for deadly serious Bond, DAF won't cut it for you.

Here's another reason why it might have put people off, too. Most viewers being heterosexual, there are bound to have been many who took a dislike to the camp feel about this picture. Mr. Wynt and Mr. Kidd are gay and Blofeld is a cross-dresser, which seems to be a strange and unexplained departure from Ian Fleming's world of Bond, unless the point was to raise cheap laughs at the expense of the gay community. In any case, it backfired badly on the producers because of the negative reviews. But if you can get beyond the camp thing as I have, and take this film in the light-hearted yet entertaining spirit in which it seems to have been made, you should come to the same conclusion that I did that this is one of the best Bond pictures of the franchise.