Ok hear is the good stuff: This is without a doubt the best sequel of the seven sequels that came after the 1st movie. It is way ahead of its time on many levels. It is scary in a very elegant way that rivals The Exorcist & Rosemary's Baby. It takes the sadomasochist under-plot to a level so extreme that you may walk away from this movie finding pain pleasing in a sexual way. WHY? Because this movie brings out the repressed sadomasochist that lives in all of our minds.

Now the bad stuff: This DVD says that it's UNRATED well that is only half-true. Although this DVD has some extra minuets of deleted footage it dose not even come close to the original cut of the film. When the film was submitted to the MPAA, it received an X rating. To achieve R rating statuses over 18 minuets were cut from the movie. There were 3 main elements that were cut from the film & still not included on the Unrated DVD. The first is a much longer version of the "GET THEM OFF ME" man that included four flashbacks to what got him sent to the hospital. The next is a back-story about Kristy's mom with flashbacks to her funeral & a scene where she is going through some old photos of her mother & then the pictures begin to cry blood that turns into cockroaches as it hits the floor. The main bulk of the 18 new minuets are centered around a sub-plot that shows Tiffany & how she came to be at the hospital as well as how her mother became the person who is getting her brain drilled into during the "The Mind is a Labyrinth" scene. Along with these deleted moments in the Tiffany, back-story is a scene explaining why she is so afraid of clowns. This is a graphic scene of Tiffany being raped by a clown. However, the most well known deleted scene is the famous "Surgeon" scene. There have been many roomers that the scene was never completed & is missing a good deal of "cleanup editing". I must tell all of you that this scene is more than complete & when shown on the "UK import X rated cut DVD" this scene has far better picture & sound quality than any other moment on the DVD.

The bottom line: This cut of the film may be far from its original form but that doesn't keep it from being a good Hellraiser movie!