I remember the night, almost eight years ago, when my pregnant wife and I were leaving the house for the hospital. We had so many big questions floating around in our heads. Would we be good parents? Could we handle this new step in our lives? What kind of life can we offer this child? I imagine these are the kind of questions, the two main characters have in Director, Sam Mendes' gentle, whimsical comedy, "Away We Go".

In this film we meet a thirty-ish, couple, who find themselves expecting their first child. Burt (John Krasinski) is a nervous dreamer with many questions about their future. He is offset by Verona (Maya Rudolph) who seems very grounded and takes their situation with a silent pragmatism.

The two, although gainfully employed, live the lifestyle of impoverished college students. After a hilariously uncomfortable visit with Burt's self-absorbed parents (Catherine O'Hara & Jeff Daniels) they come to realization, that something has to change as they go on to this next step in their lives. They need to find a real home for their soon-to-be born child and discover, what kind of parents they will be. Burt & Verona do this by going on a comical roadtrip to various cities (Phoenix, Madison, Miami, Montreal) visiting assorted friends and family, who offer up their eclectic lifestyles and forms of parenting as the way to go.

This film has a nicely written, smart script with an easy going feeling (by real life couple Dave Eggers & Vendela Vida), that gently pokes fun at parenting. The script is well anchored by its two lead actors. John Krasinski does a good job and is once again playing a funny, nice guy type of role (shades of NBC's "The Office"). Maya Rudolph, on the other hand is a revelation as a fine actress (after years of doing wacky SNL skits), who brings a certain 'gravitas' to her character, Verona.

The two leads are backed up by an immensely talented, supporting cast of actors, who's characters really make the humor of this film. Some standouts include Alison Janney as Verona's loud mouth ex-boss, who seems to have no self-editing skills as she endlessly goes on about her family in a derogatory fashion. The woman is hilariously grotesque and you just want to slap her! The other standout is Maggie Gyllenhaal as Burt's insufferable "Cousin", LN, a college professor, who seems to have taken up every 'New Age', child rearing philosphy out there. To make matters worse, she is as condescending as h*ll towards anyone, who dosn't prescribe to her beliefs. (I love her anti-stroller screed where she says "I LOVE my babies. Why would I want to PUSH them away from me?") Others in the supporting cast include Jim Gaffigan, Catherine O'Hara, Jeff Daniels, Chris Messina, Melanie Lynskey, Paul Snieder. They are all terrific!

Finally I just want to mention the wonderful soundtrack featuring folk singer, Alexi Morton. His laid-back, easy going songs greatly adds to the  emotional feeling of the film. Loved this movie. Give "Away We Go" a try!