Since its release in 1987, writer/director Sam Raimi's Evil Dead 2 has garnered somewhat of a cult following among horror enthusiasts.  Notable for its inventive camera shots, campy humor and over-the-top gore, this film is not for the faint of heart, or anyone with an aversion to slapstick humor.
 Much like the first film, this semi-sequel (the basic plot mirrors that of the first film) begins with Ash (Bruce Campbell), who is on his way to a secluded cabin in the woods with his girlfriend Linda (Denise Bixler).  However, things soon go awry as a nondescript demon takes Linda and transforms her into the walking dead.  After fending off his former lover, Ash discovers that an ancient book was unearthed by an archaeologist who lived in the cabin, and, upon translating the book, an evil spirit with an insatiable thirst for blood and carnage was unleashed.  Now, Ash must fight to protect his life, as well as his sanity.
 As a horror film, Evil Dead 2 succeeds on many levels.  First of all, the setting, an isolated cabin, adds palpable tension as Ash struggles to combat the creatures that lurk in the night.  The audience is made to feel as claustrophobic as he must, running from small room to small room, never quite knowing what will pop out next.  When Ash ventures into the woods, the anxiety ratchets up even further, since everyone knows that darkness acts as a blanket for the evil that lurks just beyond the shadows.
 Raimi is a virtuoso behind the camera, with skewed perspectives, strange point-of-view shots (like a flying, severed eyeball) and crane shots so manic and wild you could mistake the film for a cartoon.  Upside down, diagonal- the camera seems to be able to move anywhere, and the variety of shots adds a considerable amount of unpredictability and energy to the film.  Raimi is very playful, very enthusiastic, and he does not hesitate to let these qualities bleed into his work.
 Like Raimi, Campbell is a fan of the Three Stooges, and fast-paced, slapstick comedy in general.  And as he proves in a very funny kitchen scene, Cambell is very adept when it comes to physical comedy.  He can make you laugh while you simultaneously wince or simply stare in awe at the amount of viscera that soaks this film.  The insane and often unexpected bits of humor, combined with Cambell's delightful overacting (he is often called the greatest B movie actor of all time) lend the film a unique aspect that makes it seem fresher that many of the ho-hum copycat slasher films that are released today.
 Or maybe that freshness simply comes from all the blood of various colors that is being tossed around.  On multiple occasions, the death of a character or severing of a limb result in a startlingly gratuitous spray of blood, which is by turns red, green, blue... a veritable cornucopia of vital juices.  Due to its excessiveness, Raimi and the rest of the crew decided to purposely alter the color of the blood at certain points, offsetting the seriousness of the situation.  It works, despite the fact that your jaw will still drop at a few of the more...body-drenching scenes (don't get too close to that hole in the wall...).
 Overall, Evil Dead 2 presents a fresh, interesting and frequently entertaining look at a genre that has recently gotten stale and seemingly refuses to make any progress.  However, if you yearn for the old days, with lower-than-low budgets and improvisational actors, this film is right up your alley.  Fans of the Three Stooges or slapstick comedies such as The Naked Gun will surely be amused by it, and anyone whose thirst wasn't sated in gorefests like Peter Jackson's Bad Taste and Dead Alive will find themselves adequately satisfied.  Fans of quality horror films with copious surprises and thrills need look no further.  As an exemplary...example of a horror films, I give Evil Dead 2 &#61514;&#61514;&#61514;&#61514;, the highest rating possible.
Evil Dead 2, 84 min. 1987
Unrated: extreme violence, gore, language, precarious situations, lame acting
&#61514;&#61514;&#61514;&#61514;