I should have read the reviews before watching this. I'm bit of a snob when it comes to French vs. American films, especially in the comedic farce genre, but this movie kind of sucked. Even though it was watchable, I fell asleep in middle, which tells me a lot. There wasn't even one laugh moment for me and I felt the whole premise not even remotely believable.

Billionaire CEO, (Daniel Ateuil) is cheating on his wife (Kristen Scott Thomas) with a supermodel. Just as poor schmo valet guy is walking by, the paparazzi get a pic of the CEO and model having a fight and the wife sees it in the paper. Wanting to save his assets from a divorce, CEO and his lawyer come up the great idea to have the supermodel live with poor valet guy to prove to the wife that the model was with the valet guy and not him. CEO promises the model to marry her if she does this. The wife, however, is totally on to this whole scam and counter points the whole set up staying one step ahead strategically keeping things in her favor.

Then there is the valet guy. He's in love with a book shop owner (Virginia Ledoyen) who refused his marriage proposal. He goes along with this charade for the money so that he can give it to the book shop owner just because he loves her and she needs it. Mixed in with all of this is the loser roommate of the valet, the jerk cell phone sales guy, and the doddering Dr. father of the book store owner, all of whom add nothing to the story line and just seem to be thrown in there for what?... I don't know...comedic effect?

What's wrong about this film is that there's really no substance to it. None of the story lines are really developed and I couldn't feel much of anything for any of the characters. It kind of sort of wants to be a romantic comedy but falls way short. While in comedy reality can be stretched to the absurd to make us laugh, in this instance, I couldn't believe that the supermodel would go along with this to begin with, and I also couldn't believe that book shop girl suddenly wants the valet as she told him he is like a brother to her and that she didn't want to marry. If there would have been an unpredictable twist, which was possible, it may have worked for me. Alas.

Even as a die hard Daniel Ateuil fan, I cringed watching him in this. It's a total waste of his talents. The only really interesting and fun thing about this film is Kristen Scott Thomas. She played the part of the wife to the hilt and she was the only thing that was believable and kept my interest. The best part of this film was that it's rather short, 82 min., so it didn't waste too much of my time.