The Bounty Hunter is a pleasant afternoon diversion, a 2-1/2 to 3 (although I gave it five cause I'm tired of it being the poster child for bad movies.)  It's not bad, just not great.  If you like the stars (and I like BOTH Butler and Aniston) it's OK.  It has a lot of cute moments but doesn't gel as a whole for some reason.

That reason, I think, can be laid at the door of the producers/director.  Anytime a film doesn't measure up to people's expectations, critics, bloggers, man/woman on the street always lambast the stars.  Well, there are plenty of stars I don't care for, but I really don't think it's their fault, certainly not here.  The producers choose the script (here mild to say the least), the stars, the budget, the director.  It's their ballgame but they get to fade away and leave the talent holding the bag.

This film was poorly directed.  Yes, I know he's had other successes but here he dropped the ball.  Cute moments are allowed to lay there, the incidental music drains any sense of fun (the songs are cute but the rest is just bad), locations are drab and lifeless and poorly used.  And the fact that the film actually plays a lot better on TV leads me to my second assertion.

The producers/director were not tailoring this film for theaters.  Their sites were set on its perpetual play on cable, it's life on TV.  It is a classy TV movie, already honed to not upset anyone in their living room, tailor made for commercial interuption when that fate befalls it, and cute enough but not too distractive when you have to answer the phone or put the kids to bed - again.

I like Butler, a lot, and I like Aniston.  And if I don't like somebody I don't watch their films nor do I whine about them every chance I get (In other words, those who don't like Aniston - or anybody else - DON'T WATCH HER MOVIES. Sheesh!)  Butler and Aniston are good but too sanitized in this outing.  A little more edge would have helped a lot, a stronger central threat, a sharper paced rhythm (the director again).  I liked the loan collectors a lot, would have enjoyed more of a more energized Baranski - again, the director's use of his resources left a lot to be desired.

For pleasant, mild entertainment, I've developed a certain amount of affection for The Bounty Hunter.  Not the greatest film, perhaps, but a thousand miles from the worst film I've ever seen.  And if you like the stars, it's OK.  LOL