It doesn't bother me that this 1 disk edition will soon be replaced by a 3 DVD collector's set. It's good marketing, and the wait simply means the box is going to be that much better. Granted, we've been waiting a good long time for Anchor Bay to release their end-all-to-end-all box set, but if we get everything available, it should be worth the wait.
This is the 128 minute US Theatrical cut of the film, featuring what Romero felt was the best runtime, a good ballance between the gore, comedy, and character development, with the 'complete' score by The Goblins. The 139 min. version was rushed together to play at the Cannes Festival in 1978, and as such, is simply an extended rough cut. I'm personally glad that Romero can honestly state he likes a tighter, shorter version of his own film. If only most others could do the same, we wouldn't have to own each of their movies 10 times over - but, so is the game of "Director's Cuts". Remember, 'longer' doesn't always mean 'better', though it certainly can.
I'm personally hoping that the 3 DVD set coming in the fall will include Argento's "Zombi" cut, the Theatrical cut, and a whole lot of extras (Document of the Dead, maybe? I don't think Synapse has it anymore.), making it work with the single DVD rather than against it, but we'll just have to see.
I don't know what I can say about the film that hasn't been said before; excellent film, funny and action packed, holds it's own against the current dreck like Resident Evil and House of the Dead without even trying. The new Dawn, while not a total thrashing of the original (like, say, the new Texas Chainsaw Massacre), simply isn't half as good. Go with the original. You'll thank me for it if you ever get suckered in to watching the new one after viewing the original.
Anyhow, the DVD itself is great; Stunningly gorgeous 16:9 transfer, suprisingly good DTS audio, a brand new comentary, I think if fans didn't already know the box set was coming, they'd be on their knees thanking Anchor Bay for this marvelous DVD. But, for those of you who don't want to have to buy it twice, wait and see what the box brings. I have a feeling I'll own them both.
Romero's masterpiece deserves no less. Now, if only that new set would contain the 150 min. German composite print...
And, by the way. There is no alternate ending. It was written in the script that everyone dies, but never filmed for various reasons. If you want to see how much Romero's "Dead" films often veer off from how they were written, find the original screenplay for 'Day of the Dead'. It's barely recognizable compared to the finished film.
Getting 4 stars, only because we're sure to get a lot more fun when the box set comes out this Fall.