This review is a response to all the comments/reviews made about how unhappy everyone is regarding Warner Bros. not enhancing GIANT for widescreen tv playback...

GIANT was shot in the native aspect ratio of 1.66:1.  Basically means, it's just slightly "wider" than standard 1.33:1 aka: 4x3 (standard television box). Furthermore, shooting at 1.66:1 is a "non-anamorphic" format. There is no "squeezing" a wider image on the film negative - then unsqueezing when projected.

This DVD of GIANT presents the film as it was intended. If WB enhanced the picture for 16x9, then we'd actually lose a lot of the picture (from the top and bottom). The composition of the film is designed for the 1.66:1 frame perfectly.

Generally speaking...
Films that are shot 1.85:1 are anamorphic (but not always) thus, can be enhanced for widescreen tv playback.
Films that are shot 1.78:1 (which is the exact aspect ratio of today's HiDef screens, can be enhanced for widescreen tv playback.
Films that are shot 2.35:1 or 2.40:1 are anamorphic (but not always) thus, can be enhanced for widescreen tv playback.
Usually, films that are shot full-frame, 1.33:1 or 1.66:1 are non-anamorphic and should not be enhanced for widescreen (thus cutting off the tops and bottoms of the image).

Two examples of non-anamorphic films (but are still enhanced for widescreen tvs):
1.) Kubrick's "EYES WIDE SHUT"-- shot full-frame: 1.33:1 (yes, that's 4x3) standard television. For theatrical distribution, they "matted" the tops and bottoms to create a 1.85:1 ratio. The remastered special edition of "EYES WIDE SHUT" is enhanced for 16x9; just so you know, you're actually getting less picture. The original DVD release presents it in full-frame, as Kubrick intended (in fact, it even says it before the movie begins).

2.) Robert Altman's "SHORT CUTS", presented in 2.35:1 ratio is actually non-anamorphic. Again, shot full-frame, then matted it for the desired 2.35:1 ratio. Why? Because at that time, when movies hit videos they would do this awful process called Pan&Scan. Shooting it full frame would keep their desired composition by just removing the mattes from the top and bottom of the screen.

So why is GIANT non-anamorphic? Well, you'll just have to ask director, George Stevens... but he'll tell you that he wasn't crazy about this new gizmo called, "Cinemscope" (aka: anamorphic lenses/widescreen)... plus, he wanted to give GIANT a "tall" feeling opposed to a "wide" feeling. But he changed his mind when he made THE GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD, shooting anamorphic 2.20:1.

Kazan, wanted EAST OF EDEN to have that wide yet claustrophobic feeling so he chose to shoot Cinemascope, 2.35:1 as did Nicholas Ray for his films, like REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE and BIGGER THAN LIFE.

So lets not bash WB for putting out exactly what director George Steven's envisioned. Lets first do some research into "aspect ratios" and how these films were shot before you start complaining that the picture doesn't fill up your widescreen tv.