What Dreams May Come is a great movie that touches on possible aspects of what may follow after death. It posits that there may indeed be a reality, however counter-intuitive, of life after death. This movie is based on the book writen in the 70s. Some may consider the book better than the movie, but as a person who has read the book too, I would not necessarily say that. I think the book is also very good, but at the same time I just think that the book and movie are just different ways of portraying the same subject. Some of the themes and elements are the same, even though the book goes into far more details on the subject.

I just think that the book and movie are both very good, but they are also very different. One is not necessarily better than the other, but the movie rendition of the book, while not an exact replica of the story therein, is a very good rendition. This movie won an Oscar, so that should tell all about how great this motion picture experience really is.

Robin Williams, Cuba Gooding Jr. and Max Von Sidow all do absolutely excellent acting jobs. The special effects are dazzling and tremendous! The concepts about life after death are also very thought provoking. In fact, these concepts are based on alledged facts that Richard Matheson himself uncovered doing research for his book. Even on the front piece of the book he mentions that the research on the subject of life after death in his story is solid and accurate, even though the story itself is fictional account that is woven around the theory of life after death.

For anyone with an open mind and/or has any concerns or interests in what may indeed be the fate of us all after death, I highly recommend this very telling tale. The story is sometimes shocking, sometimes happy and sometimes very sad. But overall I don't think anyone seeing this movie will be disappointed in it whatsoever. I think most people will be pleasantly surprised by the story and special effects and the intellectual stimulation they may get out of watching this film.

5 stars!