Here's a new one: psychiatrist as action hero. First you hire Michael Douglas and then... you get the idea. When psychiatrist Nathan Conrad (Douglas) discovers his daughter has been kidnapped, and the key to retrieving her is a six-digit number buried in the jumbled mind of psych patient Elisabeth Burrows (Brittany Murphy), the jutting jaw goes into action to save his family from the bad guys, particularly Patrick Koster (Sean Bean), who want to retrieve a stolen gem hidden away for ten years while they were in prison.
I have to admit that everyone in this film performed up to expectations. Sean Bean makes a cold, calculating, obsessed villain, as he has done before in GoldenEye (1995) and Patriot Games (1992). Twenty-five-year-old Brittany Murphy seems to specialize in playing troubled teens - she was pudgy and perfect in Clueless (1995) and perfectly crazy in Girl, Interrupted (1999) - so she doesn't disappoint here. Famke Janssen, a former Bond Girl and a good actress in spite of that pedigree, plays the laid-up wife, Aggie Conrad, with grit and determination to overcome a script with no surprises and no cleverness to call its own. And that's where Michael Douglas comes in.
Douglas seems to specialize in macho, defender-of-family types, whether he brought the trouble into his own home, as in Fatal Attraction (1987), or when trouble is thrust upon him, as in Disclosure (1992) and Traffic (2000). But always Douglas is the steely nerved action hero when push comes to shove, even if his job description is a little wide of the mark. Indeed, toward the end of the movie, when time is short and his situation is grim, his aggressive approach is invaluable in wresting what he needs from his troubled patient, kind of like sixty-second psychotherapy.
No matter. There were exciting moments that make Don't Say a Word diverting if not elevating. Oliver Platt as Conrad's colleague, Louis Sachs - similarly threatened by the bad guys who seem exceptionally well funded for recent convicts in need of a $10 million gem - did well with a minor role. My only complaint, aside from the script (Anthony Peckham, based on Andrew Klavan's novel) and the journeyman directing (Gary "Kiss the Girls" Fleder), is the wasted talent of Jennifer Esposito in the nearly disposable role of Detective Sandra Cassidy. She does the best she can - at least she gets a cellphone like everyone else. Indeed, in spite of this being what one might call a "Michael Douglas film," the female players (Janssen, Esposito, and especially Murphy) were the real stand-outs. I couldn't quite believe a psychiatrist-pugilist, but I could believe the women.