One of cinema's most renowned classics, "The Hunchback of Notre Dame" , relies upon nostalgic sentimentality to draw the viewer. Once we begin to view a work in this context one begins to shed the critical  aspects. This movie is one such instance. There is only one thing to  recommend this movie to a modern audience and that is Charles Laughton's  exquisite performance. Like all other Gothic tales of horror from the early  studio archives the brutish images that so mesmerised the infantile mind  have lingered in the memory. It is for this reason we revist these  classics, as much to recapture childhood awe as to revel in the movie  makers art. If not for the performance of Laughton and the terrific makeup  there would be little to recommend in this film. Yes, the sets are lavish  and the costumes do captivate. One must also commend the cinematographer  for conveying some marvelous images. Yet this is not enough to propel a  vehicle beyond the ordinary cinematic experience. There must be substantive  character and plot development in order to complement the visual  experience. This is the "Hunchback's" greatest flaw. William  Dieterle (Director) has obviously conceded that the audience is overly  familiar with the storyline and has decided to concentrate on pageant  rather than plot. Indeed, the accompanying documentary on DVD shows some  telling contemporary reviews which sum up the disappointing aspects of this  film quite lucidly (you will have to use your pause and frame advance to  read the article) which reads as follows:  "Dieterle sketched his  assignment against a sweeping background of sets and crowd movement, which  while effective as such, does not provide sufficiently for story  development and definition of characters." A sentiment, I have to  agree, which is spot on. One other aspect which modern audiences may find  uncomfortable is the rather annoying score. While in some instances the  soundtrack has a sensual quality which is rather affecting, in moments of  screen action the scoring becomes quite overwhelming, a rather nasty trend  in forties cinema. The documentary on the DVD version has only one flaw,  Ms. O'Hara has more to tell than the producers were willing to impart. When  one considers that the DVD is two to three times the cost of the VHS  version it is the special features that will sell the product. A few more  "Bonuses" on this title would go a long way to recommend buying  it.