Pay little heed to the negative reviews about this film. PUSH successfully mixes spy with sci-fi and finds an appreciation of the THE X-FILES without directly needing to imitate any particular film or comic book. Admittedly PUSH at times smacks of the film JUMPER (and maybe even a little bit of television's HEROES), but unlike JUMPER, I actually cared about the protagonists in PUSH. Some complain about the lack of "action" in PUSH, but I consider the fight scenes to be the flawed, excessive areas of this film. The trailer for PUSH screams "action film" in order to get folks into the cinema -- because too often a good film that doesn't strictly fit into a genre must trick the potential customers into thinking it'll be a cookie-cutter event with neither subtleties nor required effort on part of the viewer. On the contrary, along with the fine acting and cleverness displyed in PUSH, it also doesn't hide its *disdain for the obvious*. Dakota Fanning is the clear winner for me here; you'd have to be a pretty heartless [...] not to be rooting for her character in PUSH.
The Amazon editorial review for this film declares this to be an "often silly work of science fiction," which in itself is a silly statement. If you lack imagination and a willingness to suspend belief to some degree, then 8 out of 10 films of many genres will seem "silly" (especially one that may be classified as sci-fi). He goes on to say, "the odd thing is that the story is set in China..." Duh, come on. Given that the characters were trying to keep Uncle Sam's covert agents off their backs, Why in tarnation would they stay in the States? Finally, he complains that PUSH will "leave one feeling as if the story is unfinished," and that PUSH is "Complicated to the point of viewer exhaustion." I'll tell you what is exhausting: film after duplicate formula film after rehashed simplistic film that Hollywood thrusts upon us every year, where all the predictable protagonists/ heroes/ hobbits live happily ever after and we leave the cinema without thinking, "Hmm, that's intriguing, I wonder what the next chapter would be like?" I seem to notice that real life tends to leave matters unfinished, so why must a film conform to the opposite?