I did not think anyone could have done Scooby cinematic justice, but then I could never have foretold of the genius of Raja Gosnell in bringing this most noble of Danes to life.  Who but Gosnell could have translated into live-action the existential miasma that permeated the original cartoons like an inky cloak, a cloak that invariably contained Mr. McGumbly underneath many layers of hideous disguises, like a ghoulish matryoshka doll?
Mr. Gosnell must be part Dane himself to convey with such unerring poignancy the deeply lachrymose yet pulchritudinous serial existence of Scooby, an existence bound in the tiny nutshell of the Mystery Machine and the stagnation of comic foils such as Shaggy, Fred, Velma, and Daphne, with the sometime, though never often enough, appearance of that intrepid eyas Scrappy-Doo.  A small measure of the director's faithfulness to the spirit of Scooby, that melancholy Dane, may be glimpsed in his most famous of soliloquies, "Rroo rree orr rrot rroo rree, rrat rriz rrruh rrreschun."  Unfortunately, however, the printed word cannot convey the power of his words, nor can they overcome the limitations of his doggy vocal chords.  But his ideas speak truths even through the translations of his faithful boyhood friend, Horatio.  I cannot hope to add to Scooby's insights, so I close with his own words:
"To be or not to be, that is the question:
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to beg
For the heroin-like goodness of Scooby-snacks,
Or earn them despite a sea of troubles,
And by staying eat them?  To crunch:  to munch;
Oh more!  And then I say good-bye to all
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
That flesh is heir to, 'tis a doggie treat
Devoutly to be wish'd.  To crunch, to munch;
To munch, perhaps to float: ay there's the high;
For in that sleepy death what creepiness comes
When we have gone into our happy place
Must give us pause:  there's the respect
That makes calamity of this delight;
For who would bear the ghouls and ghosts,
The really scary monster, the haunted house,
The pangs of hunger, breakfast and lunch delayed,
The insolence of Fred and the spurns
That patient merit of the unworthy takes,
When he himself his Scooby-snacks could take,
With a bare bodkin?  Who would Velma bear,
Who loses her stupid glasses all the time,
But that the opiate that is the Scooby-snack,
The chemical delight whose recipe
Is known to only Shaggy, puzzles the will
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
Than fly to others we know not of?
Thus Scooby-snacks make addicts of us all;
And thus the native of hue of healthful life,
Is sicklied o'er with delirium tremors,
And enterprises of great pith and moment
With this regard their current turn awry,
And lose the name of action."