Now, before i review this film, i will remind you of one fact. This is the eigth installment of the 1970's horror franchise, "Halloween". Now, With this in mind, i as the viewer did not have high hopes walking into the theater. Im a movie goer who doesnt beleive in sequals (unless they are part of a series, and conclude a bigger story I.E Godfather, Scream, Star wars exe). Now all this aside, Halloween Reserection is a moderetly enjoyable film. Its potental defently shines on the giant screen of the drive in, and is natuarly the only enviroment to view this film. Unfortunetly Our drive in's carried nouthing but spiderman and the scorpion king this summer. The film starts off pretty much where the last one left off (With Ms.Curtis finaly Decapitating the beloved slice and dicer). Now did we sincerly think that was the end? Oh of coarse not. They cook up an actualy very clever story to bipass the certain ending wich gave the franchise it's final stab. I give the screen author kudos, because we know this plot twist was not planned durring the scripting of Halloween 7. How ever its cleverness is soon killed off with the death of a major character ( Yes Jamie does actualy get killed off in the first 5 minutes of the film). Leaving the rest of the film basicaly pointless. When you craft a series of films where the main objective carries from film to film (that objective, KILL SISTER), no matter how random, and unexplaned the objective is (hey any one wonder why he tried so darn hard to kill his sister for so darn long? The kid is driven), and to have this goal reached so soon in the movie, leaves the viewer with a sense of, "Ok now what?". And we never realy find out. The rest of the film has blood, boobs, screams, and all the other sights expected from such a film...But it just seemed so endless. The terror that made horror fans scream at the origonal 2 Halloweens as all disapeared. I thought they would go with the obvious and have Micheal seek out his nephew, but he was not mentioned in the intire film (mind you they could not pay, or get Josh Hartnet to fill the shoes again). With all the disapointments it still is a must see for the hard core halloween fans, or new commers who havent seen the other films. Its a campy blood bath, and has its moments (Busta Ryhmes plays an enjoyable character), even if the ending makes the audiance groan "Oh good god, You have to be kidding me?"