The 13th century, Europe. Russia (at this time known as "Rus") is at her weakest, with Mongolian hordes overrunning her lands to the east. What remains of Russia seems ready to fall as the Germanic order of the Teutonic Knights - under the blessings of the Catholic Church - march on to take the land for Rome. Thus this is the setting for "Alexander Nevksy," probably one of the earliest "great hero versus the evil horde" type of movies ever made.

It is very clear who you're supposed to love and who you're supposed to hate in this movie. The Russian characters are a grand assortment of loveable characters that are well developed in their own right. On one hand you have Vasily and Gavrilo, two friends vying for the affection of a young girl who enter a pact that whoever proves bravest in battle will win her hand. You also have have Ignat, the friendly armorer who seems to find a bird metaphor for every situation. (and was personally my favorite character) On the other hand, the Teutonic Knights are portrayed as absolute devils. They are a deeply militarized enemy, wearing masks that turn them into a lifeless, faceless enemy. The Grand Master plans to divide Rus among his knights, orders the death of Russian POW's, and in one scene tosses babies into a bonfire. (although in Eisenstein's defense, this wasn't his creation - that was what the Teutonic Knights supposedly did) Likewise, the Russian who betrays the city of Pskov to the Germans is hated by Alexander even more than the Grand Master is.

A lot has been discussed about the propaganda nature of the film. Obviously at the time there was tension between the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany, and this surely inspired Eisenstein in his work. The villifying of the Germans as well as the subtle symbolism - the swastika-like shape on the Bishop's hat and the hands hand sticking out of Teutonic helmets as if in a Sieg Heil - can only support this. The film's soundtrack is peppered with patriotic Russian songs calling for the people to rise up against the enemy, defend Russian land, and the usual calls to arms.

I do not feel, however, that this detracts at all from the film. Eisenstein was always an artist first and a politician last. The character of Alexander Nevksy is portrayed as dashing, compassionate, brave, and a man-of-the-people because that was how Russian legend portrayed him, and that was how he was emoted through the actor Nikolai Cherkassov. A lot of people have said he is a metaphor for Stalin, but at no point in the film did I think, "Wow, this Nevsky is a lot like Stalin." Nevsky is no more like Stalin than were King David of the Bible, Aragorn in "Lord of the Rings," or Davy Crockett of the Alamo's legend. Some of the more negative reviewers have wondered how Stalin signed the pact with Germany after this film was released - the truth is, the film wasn't released for too long. The Soviet government approved it's making, then removed it from theaters after the non-aggression pact was signed with Germany. Eisenstein was heartbroken because, as stated before, he was always an artist before a politician. It should be noted especially that for a time before this film as made he could not get support in Russia because the communists disapproved of his putting film method over party ideals.

And Eisenstein's touch for filmmaking certainly shines through here, as the man who brought us the famous Odessa steps sequence in "The Battleship Potemkin" brings us the the Battle on the Ice sequence. The close shots of  hand-to-hand combat are stunning for the time they were filmed. (even if by today's standards it looks like a bunch of guys clanking their shields together) From Nevsky's cavalry charge to the Teutonic shield wall to the crumbling of the ice, you'll find yourself rooting for the Russians at least once or twice. (I especially laughed at the part where Gavrilo grabs a German, spits in his face, and axes him out)

Regrettably, the DVD is not too good. There's not even a title menu - when you put the DVD in it goes straight to the movie, and when it's done it goes to the chapter selection. There's no commentary, no original trailer, no cast bios - nothing! This combined with an unrestored audio track and sloppily placed subtitles almost hurts the movie-watching experience. Considering this film is put alongside "Battleship Potemkin" and "Ivan the Terrible" as Eisenstein's greatest films, I think it deserves something better. Maybe in the future Criterion will do what they did for Akira Kurosawa's "Ran" and finally give the film a decent DVD release. Wait...technically they did, but it's in an $80 DVD compilation with "Ivan the Terrible." I suppose if you're willing to bring out the extra bucks, you can be happy at last.

All in all, I was not disappointed with this film. If you liked "The Battleship Potemkin," like Russian cinema, or you want to see a good foreign film, (or you want to see what the Russians had before "LOTR: The Two Towers" was made) this I definitely recommend this movie.