I have been watching this series on both Cartoon Network and Nicktoons.com and I have to say that I am extremely pleased with how FUNimation has handled Dragonball Z Kai.

Recalling the earlier days of Dragonball Z, when it was dubbed by the Ocean Studios, and then taken over by FUNimation Texan voice actors, I can recall extreme disappointment and physical sickness when I go back and listen to the old dub (starting from the new FUNimation actors onward).  I recall the horrid voice acting, the dog-awful English script, and the generic and unimaginative dub music.  I remember how Chris Sabat took on the roles of Vegeta, Piccolo, Yamcha, and countless other voices, and how awful the voice cast used to be.  I remember how they butchered* (*I would have liked to use a different verb) the original script and how some of the lines from the old dub just made we want to vomit. (To recall: "Loser!" "Mondo Cool!" and the infamous 'Kamehameha Dump')

Enthralled to say, that with Dragonball Z Kai, FUNimation has redeemed themselves.  The voice acting has increased 100x fold, and I find myself enjoying Chris Sabat's performance now.  He has perfected his Vegeta, Piccolo, and Yamcha voices, to where they are each entirely distinguishable from each other, and he is putting so much more energy and emotion into his performance.  They have changed the script so that it very closely resembles the Japanese script, and have modeled them to be sensible, professional, and poetic (as opposed to being previously inane, crude, and graceless).  Also, much kudos to replacing unfitting actors, the new voices for Gohan, Bulma, and Android #18, for example, are much more fitting and less grating to the ears than the previous actors. And I have to say the new voice of Freeza, Christopher Ayers is absolutely amazing.  Finally, Freeza doesn't sound like an old grandma!  The music is pleasing to the ear, and not grating like the generic discovery channel rock of before.  The pace of the series is fast as expected, and somewhat haphazard, but I prefer it as I find myself glued to the screen, not wanting to miss a minute of the action.

I have every intention of buying the entire series, once all the episodes are released that is!  I actually can't wait for each new episode to be released, and find myself enjoying Dragonball Z all over again.  Thanks FUNimation for being faithful to the original and the grand improvements you have made over the years.