Technically there's really nothing all that wrong with this film. It uses the "found footage" format (crudely shot amateur video from a single limited point of view as if someone captured it on a home movie camera), which is fine and in this case fits the overall intent of the story.

Nothing much wrong with the acting either. In fact the performances are quite passable.

The visuals and effects work okay as well. Nothing too spectacular was required but what there is works just fine.

The problem isn't even with the story itself, though there's nothing really new here. An Apollo crew goes on a secret mission to the moon and encounters alien creatures.

What sinks the entire enterprise is the overall of the project. It is unrelentingly grim, certainly not the sort of thing you want to watch for entertainment.

You get the feeling it is something rather dark and unpleasant just by looking at the poster. A previously unknown Apollo moon mission that you've never heard about before which, logic tells you, must have been lost with all hands. That's kind of depressing to consider and it's what you realize just from the poster.

Not that it couldn't have been a tragedy, like one of the Shakespeare plays were everyone dies in the end, like Romeo & Juliet or Hamlet. Both of those are great works, full of engaging thoughts and idea.

But what's missing in Apollo 18 is any sense of heroism or transcendant sacrifice. Basically it's a trio of ordinary guys who got lied to by those they work for (NASA, the US government) and callously sent to their deaths in the interests of... well, we never find out why (another problem). Mostly what we get is three guys in a tight spot struggling to stay alive, even though we already know they are all going to die in the end.

And they do exactly what real people in such circumstances would do... panic, rage, totally freak out, try anything they can think of to survive. None of them have any kind of epiphany about the need to sacrifice themselves, none of them do anything particularly noble. They're just a trio of already doomed guys wasting their time and effort trying to stay alive. That's not what I would call entertainment. You get about the same feeling you would if you stabbed an animal in the gut and then just watched it suffer and slowly bleed to death.

I could consider it an unsuccessful attempt to do what others managed to pull off in the original Director's cut of "Butterfly Effect". For the theatrical release of that one the studio required the filmmakers to tack on a silly "happy ending" which totally negated the entire rest of the story. In the original cut, the lead character dies. But he does so willingly because he understands he must to help or save others, which elevates it to a kind of heroic, nobel self-sacrifice. True, it's also pretty grim to watch but there is a feeling of something transcendant going on (despite how unpleasant the outcome is.) In the case of Apollo 18 there's no such "moral" or "point" to things.

If you really want to get the major feeling raised by this movie, watch the TV news for the next story about a bunch of miners trapped alive in a collapsed tunnel, where they make it plain there's no way they're going to ever be rescued. It feels a lot like that. And the miners would be a lot easier on your wallet, being TV news and thus free.