Like others have mentioned, the warning about how disturbing this film is cannot be underestimated.

But I rated it 5 stars because, unlike so many films about spree killers, it takes no moral stand. It simply shows the potential effects of such psychoses on everyone, but particularly on the immediate, surviving family.

I will disagree with the other reviewers here about feelings of holding the mother partially responsible. I believe this film shows the very real probability that the mother merely reacts to the obviously errant development of the child who becomes a psychotic killer. She does, indeed, seek help. Only to be rebuffed by doctors and experts; labeled as an hysterical mother.

As a student of neuropsychology, and a long-term ponderer of the psychology of those who kill, I have come to believe that the biology of the brain of these kinds of killers is congenital. Genetic? Maybe. Maybe not.  But inborn? Positively.

And this film explores that possibility. Tilda Swinton plays the hapless mother of the congenitally disturbed Kevin and does so brilliantly. Her character's growing fear of the title character, who plays her against her husband's life of denial (Reilly, played perfectly), is palpable. This grittily realistic woman makes you ponder how you would handle such a difficult reality.

Of course, that is exactly the point, in my opinion. My heart breaks for her, as she lives out the consequences of ignorance in the public, who blame her for her son's evil acts. Personally, my opinion is that no matter how lurid the childhood of killers, it is nature (in the formation of the physical brain), not nurture (in the rearing), that creates a killer such as Kevin.

Too many children have been raised with horrors far beyond those this title character endures; yet they do not kill. It seems to me this film points out that Kevin was born with no capacity for empathy, and, worse, with a keen appetite for torture.  Particularly satisfying to him is the torture of his mother. It is disturbing in the extreme to see how well he ultimately conquers her completely.  And in stealing from her a peaceful life, he condemns her to a fate worse than his own in prison.

In the end, it asks us to ponder how we would feel if it happened to us. Which causes much discomfort, because of the protective mechanism in our minds that leads us to find reasons it could not happen to us. But maybe it can.