Keep in mind I haven't went through the whole video except to quickly view the material. I very much liked the drills in the warm up section. However I did not like the random yoga thrown in I twisted my kneee and hurt my back trying to do the sun salutation. She doesn't really say out loud what she's doing so I was trying to do the pose while still watching the video. Not a good mixture. I do like that she has more bellyfat than alot of the bellydancers in videos have. I have kids and my tummy fat doesn't move like the skinny girls so the moves wind up looking very different. I did like that the warmup left me slightly sweaty. A workout and drilling all in one. For some of the warm up moves you would move into position and by the time she's through explaining it all your legs are tired and you've already fallen over. However I do think the warmup is based on her warmup so it's something to be built up on out of repetition. I also like how the video is 2 hours long however it is all in one clip so if you want to skip a particular warmup it's pretty hard. Also, within the first 10 minutes my arms were killing me. Which was good however it makes it hard to hold them up when you really need to. She holds hers up for every move. I guess that's something to be worked on too. The instruction on strobing and ticking is good as far as I can tell. However her demonstrations leave something to be desired. There's no passion and the locks are not sharp. Could be that she was tired by now because I believe that she did the whole 2 hours together instead of doing parts on different days. This could be very good basic information and you fill in the blanks.  I don't see the years of dedication that you see in Rachel Brice or some of the others. Her moves are very generic, but again the ticking, drills, and warmup make it a good add on to your collection of bellydance videos. I believe I got my moneys worth, but don't expect really great new stuff unless you're just starting out in bellydance. Her performances are also some of the worst I've seen short of newbies. There's very little attitude or basic bellydance. She flows more than moves, even when she's trying to tick or lock. Her second performance looks very much like a watered down copy of Kami's on Bellydance Fundamentals.