"Psycho II"

  After twenty-odd, very odd, years Anthony Perkins stepped back into his watershed role as' Norman Bates', possessed by his dead mom- `Mrs. Bates'.  This time the tables had turned and our much loved- despite everything- antihero is now "II's" victim not its fiend.  Vera Miles as `Lila', a near victim herself in 1960, has now become the sequel's real `monster'.  Lila is out for blood and when her impersonation scheme nets a literal body count, she reasonably assumes that Norman is to blame ... as does the audience.  [And] if not Norman, then whom?
It turns out that poor skeleton-stuffing Tony has an aunt with a `mother complex'.  Unfortunately for this character,'Mrs.Spool', the expression 'shoveling s---' takes ona whole new meaning.

  Not since the "Bride of Frankenstein" has a horror sequel  SO answered the long-held prayers of the original's most faithful fans.  Richard Franklin... who?  No, we know better.  It was said at the time, and only half in jest, that the `ghost' of Alfred Hitchcock had directed "Psycho II".  The resultant film in-the-can was beyond Franklin's derivative talents.  I am tempted to believe that he held one hand on the director's megaphone and the other on a planchette .  Franklin Ouija-ed his famous master, Mr. Hitchcock, and maybe reached Charles Laughton on the other side as well.  People have come to assume that Alfred Hitchcock somehow directed "Psycho II", and somehow they are right!

  After his inevitable and `best' career move (the 1st sequel), Tony Perkins got stuck in a rut.  His subsequent and `worst' career moves- "Psycho IIb" (i.e. Ken Russell's "Crimes of Passion" with a `Reverend Norman' type as a publically masturbating minister), "Psycho III" and "-IV".  Even with Perkins at the helm and exhibiting skill as a first time director, "III" was a lumpy mix of gore and unfunny humor.  "III" comes complete with anti-Marian irreverence (perhaps the ultimate form of metaphysical matricide).  Hitchcock would have been amazed at the scene in which  Mrs. Bates, I mean Mrs. Spool, I mean Norman as Mrs. Spool as Mrs. Bates turns `into' the Virgin Mary.  Sir Alfred would have been impressed by his faux `son's' directorial acumen, yet still thrown up his Holy Water in disgust.

  Anthony Perkins was a marvelous actor and a sweet man (at least to this fan who met him several times).  But the poor guy was `bi' at best and spent his career trying to turn the most beautiful actresses in the world* into his- well- `mother'.  When push came to shove, Tony's characters either stabbed them to death in the shower or was himself run over by a car (to audience applause!).
__

* Jean Simmons, Sophia Loren, Silvana Mongano, Audrey Hepburn,  Ava Gardner, grrr Jane Fonda, Janet Leigh, Melina Mercouri, Ingrid Bergman [still a `stunner'], Romy Schneider, Tuesday Weld, Brigitte Bardot, Marlene Jobert, Elizabeth Taylor,... Victoria Principal (Tony gave in to heterosexual temptation- at last).

Thanks, Hunter J. Jones