Well, where to start? I actually quite enjoyed this season and I am a bit disappointed that some people think it was awful! Well, to sum it up Lana returns from Paris sporting a mysterious tattoo that magically appeared and with a new boyfriend in tow, Lex and Clark are driven further apart but come to a mutual though not fully trustworthy friendship, Lionel is in prison, crazy Alicia makes a re-appearance, Lois Lane joins the gang, Clark flies (only briefly) and someone finds out Clark's secret. Well, first of all the premier involved Clark returning to his home planet reprogrammed as Kal-El, who is on a mission to find 3 mysterious crystals.

He first comes back, of course, in a shower of fire and rocks and ends up butt-naked in the middle of a field only to be found by Lois Lane. Now I must admit that the whole butt-naked thing was a bit of a treat for us women and fans of Tom Welling! (pervy I know but you men can oggle at the girls!)

Anyway, back on track... ah yes... we are introduced to yet another God-damn colour of kryptonite - black, which makes Kal-El turn back to Clark again. Jonathan wakes from a coma, Lex recovers from being poisoned, Chloe doesn't die and Lionel goes to prison (yeah!) Anywho you'll all find out what happens when you watch it but I thought I'd share my fave eps with you.

Ok, well I totally loved Devoted, Chloe cheerleading had tears running down my cheeks!

I loved Transference also, it was nice to see Tom acting bad again and I thought his portrayal of Lionel was totally accurate and soo funny (the whole fire incident with his mother and 'I need a hug'!) Though, I have to say I did not like John Glover's performance as I thought he didn't grasp the character of Clark well enough but I did love that ep!

Totally loved Spell, yeah I know the whole witches thing was a bit odd but I thought it livened up the season and Clark got a chance to paaarty! (I loved the expression on his face when he saw the mess of the barn and his Dad's when he found the lacy bra!)

Another fave one was Scare, I found the whole 'biggest fear' thing sooo intruiging, especially Chloe's and Clark's. Lex's was worrying and Lana's was just plain predictable!

Also, Unsafe was hilarious, the whole Vegas Wedding was classic! Sacred was quite good too, the whole witch thing was interesting.

Another was Blank because it focused more on Chloe and Clark and I thought it was sweet she kept his secret, also Ageless was a tear-jerker, which there hasn't been since Ryan.

But my absolute favourite has to be Spirit - it had soo much witty one-liners such as 'It's a little close to the boob don't you think?' and the ever classic Martha 'La-La' dance, Clark's expression was priceless!

The finale went out in style as always and left more pondering questions. Brilliant season with all classic 'Superboy' stuff! I loved it - it's a must have for all fans.