As a kid in the 1960's, I watched the Speed Racer cartoon a lot. It was an odd show, with a kerchief'd Pollyanna-esque main character navigating his way through hyper-exaggerated explosions and fist-fights with the Mob. All the characters sounded exactly alike, and spoke with rapid-fire bizarre inflections. This was my first exposure to what would later be called "anime," I guess...cartoons imported from Japan. I can't say I was a huge fan, but it made enough of an impression on me that, as an adult, I can still sing the theme song.

When it was announced that Hollywood was releasing a live action film based on the old show, I rolled my eyes. Haven't we had enough of this kind of exploitation of my childhood? And when the ads for the film appeared, my opinion was sealed-I was convinced that they had `ruined' Speed Racer. To me, the ad campaign did nothing to sell it, and I presume that people like me who had good memories of the original were their prime audience.

Then it hit DVD, and on a slow weekend I decided to give it a chance. The film opens with blasts of color and fast editing, and the first ten minutes or so jump around between several different time periods. On first viewing, this can be very confusing, and I still wasn't sold. But by the time the film was 30-minutes in, I realized that I was completely hooked, that I cared about the characters, was biting my nails through the high-energy, high-chroma action scenes, and that my heart was pounding along to the soundtrack, and soaring with the notes of the classic theme song.

I have now seen the film about a dozen times, and it just gets better and better. It's the perfect action movie. The casting is inspired, the story is bold (I hesitate to say "cartoonish") but has enough twists and turns that you will find yourself understanding details of it better on subsequent viewings. And if you aren't cheering out loud for Speed in the final race, well, you just have no heart.

This movie pulled off one miracle in particular--the characters of Spritle & Chim-Chim seemed certain to be the most hated characters in movie history (they sure dragged the cartoon down, even for a young viewer!). And yet through a judicious script, excellent casting, and brilliant direction, I actually find myself loving those characters and their perfect dosage of comic relief. I don't know how they pulled it off, but Spritle and Chim-Chim steal the show, at least as far as the secondary plot is concerned. They should have ruined the film but instead they added a wonderful dimension to it (and even some laughs during the end credits).

Casting for Speed and his family is also perfect. Susan Sarandon and John Goodman manage to bring tears to my eyes in a couple of scenes, even in the middle of a super-stylish "cartoon" movie! And Speed is played by Emile Hirsch with just the perfect blend of heroism and naivet&eacute; to capture the essence of the old 60's character's true "goodness" without making you throw your popcorn at the screen with a groan. Mathew Fox as Racer "X" was another master stroke. Yes, the casting and the acting in this film is perfect for its smart & wild presentation, and involve you emotionally without ever stopping the action. You have to see the film to appreciate what I mean.

If you enjoy fast-paced action and a hero to cheer for, please give this film a chance - it may end up among your favorite action films, especially if you have any fond memories of the old cartoon (and its theme music). I find myself shamed that I did not see this in theaters, so that I could have "cast my vote" for a sequel, but the least I can do is upgrade my DVD to a Blu-Ray copy--this is one movie that I can watch over and over, and have done so!!

By the way, with the exception of one or two expletives and a quick hand gesture, even younger kids can fall in love with this film. My boys (7 & 9) love it, though I had to make a very slightly "edited" version for them. I can see why they scripted it as they did, and those scenes provided some good laughs, but as a father I do wish they had just chopped out those words. It's too bad that Blu-Ray technology couldn't have been leveraged to provide a slightly 'cleaner' path through the movie for younger audiences. On the other hand, I'm very sensitive to language around my kids and several other parents I know have shown this film to theirs without any hesitation at all. Just wanted to mention it.

I wish there would be a sequel, I really do. This movie falls easily in with my top-ten action movies of all time.