This is one of those films that "grows on you."  The more you think about it, the more it offers.

You have to figure that any film that begins with this cast and this director has something to offer.  This much talent all in one place could make a movie about a bus tour gone awry something worth watching.

Admittedly at the film's conclusion, I had a feeling of "Now, what was that really all about?"  Well, it was all about human nature and introspection.

Though something of a control freak, Manning is a good person who had been cuckolded by the wife he adored and the neighborhood sociopathic heir to the manor.  At the end he should have felt all right about leaving her to her fate.  But he didn't.  Love wins out over logic, as it often does.  And whether we agree with him or not, it's his life, isn't it?

And Anne--well, any woman (and probably any man) who has ever fallen under the romantic spell of a sociopath can understand the dilemma she was in.  She is admirable in the way that she demands to take responsibility for her own actions and decisions, even against the wishes of those she holds nearest and dearest.  She thinks she loves the sociopath because he demands nothing of her, in contrast to her husband whom she feels constantly sets standards she cannot met.  She probably mentioned this in her first conversation with Billy Buel, thereby giving him the tool he needed to hook her.

One of the easiest characters to overlook is Maggie, who has the golden opportunity for revenge against the person who once did her so great a wrong, then has to weigh that against the pain she will cause the one person who changed her fate for the better.

In all the well-constructed morass of tangled emotions and motives in this film, Billy the sociopath is actually the surprising safe haven for the viewer.  He lives only for himself, and he lacks a single redeeming quality, so we can hate, hiss and boo him to our heart's content.  Thanks, Rupert Everett, for doing so well the very tough job of portraying a souless individual as souless.

This is a very fine film--a good story portrayed by a great group of cinema professionals.  It's also a reminder that life in the gray area can be the toughest life of all.