This telenovela has been seen in more than 20 countries around the world, it has been remade three times over the last 35 years, and  it has won numerous awards. Corazon Salvaje, which means Savage Heart in English is a story filled romance, passion, intrigue, envy, greed, malice, and betrayal all the ingredients necessary in creating an unforgetable tale.

It begins with the shores of San Pedro when a savage abused boy by the name of Juan Diablo befriends the son of a wealthy landowneer named Andres de Alcazar y Valle. Instantly the pair become good friends unaware that the two of them are really brothers. Andres is the legtimate son of Francisco de Alcazar y Valle who 15 years ago had a love affair with a poor peasant woman the mother of Juan. Upon learning that Juan is his son from his dearest love Francisco begins to make arrangements for his Juan to be educated and most importantly so that he can have his name. Unfortunately Francisco has a heart attack, however before he dies he writes a letter conveying that his last wish is for Juan to have his name, in addition he makes Andres promise to take care of his brother and with that he dies not knowing that his wife Sofia fearing for the future of her child Andres takes the letter before anyone can see it and hides it and sends her son Andres to Mexico City. 15 years have passed and both boys have grown into men Andres is now an educated gentlemen charming everyone he sees and meets. Juan on the other hand is now a rich smuggler of goods and owns land, although still as reckless as the day he was born. In Mexico City, Andres falls heads over heels in love with Aimee the daughter of a penniless countess who unbeknowst to him is not only the sister of his fiance Monica but the lover of Juan Diablo. Returning to San Pedro he breaks off the arrangement with Monica and asks Aimee to marry him instead. Although already the lover of Juan Aimee agrees unwilling to pass up a good marriage with Andres, although she loves the passion Juan ignites in her the temptation of wealth and prestige consumes her and she accepts the marriage proposal of Andres. Humilated by the rejection of Andres, Monica the older sister of Aimee and calmly enters a convent desiring to be a nun. A month has gone by and Aimee and Andres are couple in bliss until the arrival of Juan who is furious that Aimee married Andres comes to abduct her causing a scandal. To clean up the mess her sister has made Monica steps in the middle and sacrificing her name states that she is the lover of Juan thus compelling her to marry Juan. Though Juan is a violent man witout manners, a title, education and even a name Monica falls deeply in love with him as she sees that below the tough exterior of his heart lies a man who is not only good, honorable, but selfless and kind to those more unfortunate than himself. Savage yet gentle, Vulnearale yet strong Juan begins to see a life filled with promise with the love of his beloved Monica, however his future with her becomes shaky when Andres discovers the truth of his relationship with Aimee. Angry and betrayed he joins forces with other individuals to destroy Juan his half brother, the son of his father. Yet through the trials and tribulations Juan is determined not to let Monica go the tamer of his wild heart. Together Juan and Monica fight to preserve not only their marriage but their wild hearts as well.