It's hard to say exactly why this little movie is such a charmer, but it is.  It was only a modest success when first released, but has gone on to become something of a cult favorite on video and cable, enough so that a sound-track CD was released several years after the movie.  
Perhaps part of the reason is that it combines two well-known and durable genres, the underdog sports movie and the romantic comedy of mismatched opposites.  He is Doug Dorsey, an Olympic hockey player from a mining town in northern Minnesota, knocked out of a pro career by a minor eye injury, who is apparently irresistible to all the ladies, except for her.  She is Kate Moseley, an upper class pairs figure skater who missed out on Olympic gold by falling in the long program, whose sharp tongue has driven away all her potential partners.  Out of desperation, her coach recruits the hockey player to be her new partner.  As the script actually acknowledges, this premise stretches credulity, but then this is basically a fairy tale anyway (as are most romantic comedies, if you think about it).  Will the hockey player be able to convert to an Olympic level pairs figure skater?  Will they skate for Olympic gold?  Will they bicker and insult each other and fall in love despite themselves?  No points for incorrect guesses.
If the ending is predictable, and the subsidiary players are stock (the gruff but wise coach, the gay male skating partner, the pushy father, the upper class boy friend), then perhaps the answer is that getting there is fun, with some twists and turns thanks to a funny script by Tony Gilroy, and terrific chemistry between D.B. Sweeney as Doug and Moira Kelly as Kate. Sweeney does an excellent job playing a guy who is an egotistical jock ("There are only two things I do really well, sweetheart, and skating's the other one!"), a bit crude, but who also has a sweet side to him.  Kelly delivers her bitchy lines with flair ("What is this, last stages of Ukranian Alcohol Psychosis?") but also shows a very appealing vulnerability. Their interaction carries us through a pretty stock and predictable plot and makes it believable.  Among the memorable scenes between them are a series of skating sequences in which the only dialog is the words "toe pick", their exchange of Christmas presents, the two of them getting a case of the nerves at the Nationals, their celebration afterwards, and of course, the lead-up to the climactic Olympic skate at the end.  The sharp-eyed may be able to catch three scenes that feature a Bobby Hull Black Hawk hockey sweater which deftly underlines the emotional progression.  Incidentally, the Nationals and Olympic pairs skating sequences feature genuine international competition level skaters and are choreographed by Olympic champion Robin Cousins, who also has a cameo as a commentator at the Nationals.  
A real feel-good guilty pleasure movie which holds up well to repeated viewings, a great chick flick and the perfect date movie.  The DVD is pretty basic; although it has a choice of French and Spanish subtitles and dubbing, the only extra is the theatrical trailer, which has a couple seconds that were cut out of the movie itself.