"The Night Listener" is a contemplative, suspenseful little film that tells the story of writer and late-night radio host Gabriel Noone (a sublimely restrained Robin Williams), smarting from the recent break-up with his HIV+ partner Jess (the under appreciated Bobby Cannavale of TV's "Will & Grace" and "Third Watch" fame) and blocked creatively. Into his lap falls the manuscript of a harrowing memoir of child sexual abuse told through the eyes of 14-year-old Pete Logand, who just so happens to be Gabriel's biggest fan. Gabriel and Pete forge a long-distance friendship, with Pete's adoptive mother Donna (Toni Collette) running interference when Pete's nagging bouts of AIDS related pneumonia waylay their late night telephone chats. For Pete, Gabriel represents the idealistic father figure he never had; for Gabriel, Pete represents the opportunity to be the father he never had. When Jess suggests that Donna and Pete's voices sound oddly the same, Gabriel begins to question the boy's existence. After false hope of a Christmastime meeting that Donna cancels at the eleventh hour, Gabriel and Pete's shared editor (Joe Morton) gets wind of Gabriel's conspiracy theory; Pete is left without a publisher and Gabriel is left with a disconnected phone number. Obsessed with finding out the truth about Pete, Gabriel heads to the Logand's last known address in Wisconsin, where he eventually tracks down Donna and a psychological game of cat-and-mouse ensues.

"The Night Listener" is one of those rare films that takes its weighty source material and boils it down to the bare essentials without losing its substance. Lisa Rinzler's cinematography captures the mood and feel of the story, from the cozy interiors of Gabriel's New York brownstone to the wintry desolation of Wisconsin's exteriors. Clocking in at a tight 82 minutes, director Patrick Stettner (who directed 2001's disturbing indie drama "The Business of Strangers") does a remarkable job bringing the screenplay, with whom he shares writing credit with Armistead Maupin and Maupin's real-life ex-partner Terry Anderson, to the big screen. And while the screenplay varies from Maupin's introspective novel to add a few scenes that translate better on screen, fans of the book will not be disappointed or let down by the variance. The film, while steeped in suspense, is character driven and never loses sight of the greater human dramas at its core. Williams, who shines when he is given low-key, thoughtful material instead of his usual comedic scenery-chewing fare, gives a superbly understated performance. He is aided by indie fave Sandra Oh ("Sideways" and TV's "Grey's Anatomy") who gives a delightfully sardonic supporting turn as his assistant and a brief but compelling performance by veteran character actor and Broadway star John Cullum as his father.

This is one of those quality independent films one hopes won't be overlooked come awards season. It relies on the oft-disquieting humanity of its flawed characters to generate suspense and earn the psychological investment of the audience. Maupin, who wrote "The Night Listener" in 2000 long before the literary scandals of James Frey and JT LeRoy, was ahead of his time with this story of reality and fantasy and how easily those lines can blur if you're not listening.