Apollo 13 is one of my favorite movies, probably due to having grown up during the space race with the Soviet Union. I own two other copies of Apollo 13, but wanted it on Blu-Ray.  Unfortunately, they're apparently putting too much stuff on Blu-Ray discs these days (BD-Live, interviews, extras, every language spoken on Earth, etc.), which makes this movie almost impossible to start.  I note that another reviewer just sent his back because he couldn't get it to work without an internet connection to his player -- while I DO have an internet connection, my guess is that if he had just waited for about ten minutes to get through all of the junk he'd probably have been able to watch the movie -- it just says that SOME features will not work without a connection.  My guess?  The thing is just massively overloaded with junk.  I timed it, and if I just let it run through all the previews, I then get to the language screen in about five minutes.  If I push enter for English, it goes back into load mode, and in another two to three minutes you get the screen where you can play the movie.

I caution you, however:  If you push ANYTHING ELSE other than play, it may very well send you into a blank screen loading mode again.  I tried it again today, wondering if it was just something I had done wrong, but before the movie started I had begun talking to myself (never a good sign) and just took the thing out of my player, probably never to be tried again.  But who knows -- if I had just let it keep running it might have started the movie by NEXT YEAR'S anniversary of the launch of Apollo 13 (April 13, which I assume is why I got it on that day).  Perhaps they should have sent it a week earlier, and I could have had a pizza, some popcorn, party hats and have been all set to watch it when it finally fired up on the 13th.

Once you DO get to the movie -- it's fine.  The picture quality is clear and vivid.  If getting a probably nicer copy of Apollo 13 offsets the frustration level of the extraneous stuff on the disc is really up to the individual.  Consider yourselves forewarned so that you'll know what to expect when you fire up this disc.