Last week, I was languishing in the confining comfort of my small apartment, idly perusing the contents of old videotapes in a mostly-futile attempt to assuage the holiday blues.  Christmas is, after all, a time to spend with those you love....and if you're a 45-year-old, premenopausal, recovering manic depressive spinster with a longstanding resignation to your own pain, then a celluloid tonic is usually a welcome panacea.
At length, I saw that I had taped 1997's "Private Parts" during its inaugural television broadcast.  Happily, the film featured clips of The King of All Media interrupting the proceedings, interjecting the teleplay with his own sardonic sermons.  As I laughed timidly (OK, OK, I laughed exuberantly...get off my back) at Howard's infamous inflections and enjoyed the film for the first time since 1997, I remembered these salient points: In 1994, I believed with firm conviction that Howard Stern was the devil incarnate.  An uncaring, insensitive lout who wouldn't know good taste if it bit him in the generals.  
By March 1996, I regarded him as a comedic genius.
"Private Parts" depicts the radio magnate in all his irreverent, groundbreaking and glorious humanity.  His romance and subsequent marriage to Alison (whom he has since divorced and who is now remarried), is sweetly presented here.  Yes, the shock jock is frequently maddening, and some of his material contains questionable taste.  (All right, I'll come out and say it - some of his stuff is downright gross.  "Butt Bongo Fiesta" has about as much appeal for this hetero as a Sapphic Satyricon has for Anita Bryant.)  
But "Private Parts" doesn't represent the nadir of Stern's career.  Rather, it reveals layers of sensitivity and kindness beneath the rough-hewn exterior.  In some ways, Stern is Everyman - a testament to his massive success.  Although by now fabulously wealthy, Stern has many of the same problems that millions of others share:  marital issues, childrearing dilemmas, anal-retentive bosses, etc. - and "Private Parts" presents the endearing vulnerability at his core.  (His scenes with Robin Quivers present this skillfully.)
In a nutshell, this film is a fitting explanation for why I came to love Howard Stern.  And that's probably why my depression lifted last week upon viewing this film.  
I don't watch Howard's E! shows much any longer.  Most of them now concern strippers, sophomoric stunts and assorted juvenilia that I have no interest in watching.  However........
In 1999, soon after separating from Alison, Stern devoted a portion of his morning radio show to "Sheera, Princess of Power."  Sheera had recently died, and, true to form, the softhearted Stern had taken her in when she was an abandoned kitten.  A lifelong feline-o-maniac, I found myself riveted to Stern's monologue, not even realizing I was weeping my eyes out.  Soon enough, my Great King interjected some brutal humor into the proceedings, describing how he "spilled Sheera's ashes all over the carpet."  Now I began laughing uproariously through my tears.
That, to be sure, is the man I love.