Some of the criticism that Elizabethtown is receiving may be on target, but does it really lack the fundamental elements that comprise a decent movie?  The most common critical remarks are that the movie lacks continuity and a clear plot; that too much material is compressed into an entertainment vehicle that cannot effectively deliver the goods.  Indeed, it is hard to find a critical element of life that is not touched upon.  There are:  loss of prestigious job; the death of a parent; loss of a love interest; nuclear and extended family interaction, community pressure, civil rights, and the establishment of a relationship that holds the potential to successfully guide the main character through such adversities and beyond.

In defense of the movie, life is not one well thought out superbly edited script that has seamless dissolves between daily interactions.  If a movie hints of such chaos, is it poorly edited, or does the director feel the audience may want to connect the dots on their own without a lot of explanation, or forced interpretation?  There are scenes in the movie that seem superfluous to the plot and have been used as examples of directorial flaws.  While such scenes may seem initially out of place and a distraction at best, if they provoke thought about their possible relevance to the movie, then what is the harm? A common example is Susan Sarandon's character's behavior following the death of her husband, most notably the tap dancing routine at his memorial service.  However, bereavement is not a simple emotion that will be uniformly expressed by all individuals.  I doubt if any individual knows exactly how they will react when a calamity befalls them.

If you are a romantic, this movie is going to do well by you; if you are pragmatic, then it will be easy to find fault with the movie.  Personally, I very much enjoyed it, and the fact that my wife just said that I would defend anything that Kirsten Dunst is in......well, just like the movie, that remark is open for discussion.