The real make-you-laugh comedies are usually pretty much exaggerating and pointless. Harold and Kumar go to White Castle is definitely a dramatic and exaggerating comedy, and yes, it does bring you stomach-aching laughs. It consists of Kumar and Harold riding a cheetah, overly racist police who arrested a black person just because he's black, and the list goes on. The plot of the whole movie itself is kind of pointless (at least it sounds like so), the movie is about the duo, Harold and Kumar set off to go to White Castle because they watched the commercial of it, and craved the mini burgers. However, they faced many obstacles that I felt like "they can't happen in real life". However, after watching the movie, I think it's so much more than just a funny comedy, it's also about the pursuing of happiness, and of dream.

Many people are very ambitious, they aim for wealth, they thought being rich brings happiness. That's similar to what I thought. I thought that earning good grades, being able to go to good colleges, earning lots of money would be happiness; but the answer's no. I realize those things aren't really what I want, those are just expectations from my parents. Just like Kumar, he has perfect grades, he's perfectly smart, but yet he keeps messing up the inverviews into the best med schools. He is capable of earning good money, but because he doesn't want to, he never takes the interviews seriously.

I also learnt from the movie that you don't have to have everything in order to be happy. Like Harold and Kumar, they went through so much just because they craved the mini burgers in White Castle. I respected them because a lot of people would've already given up, but they chose to continue the journey. And in the end, they got the burgers they got what they wanted, from the looks on their faces I know that at that moment, they were so satisfied, it's almost like they owned the world. Therefore I think the people nowadays wanted too much, sometimes they even forget about what they really want.

This is a good movie. Funny and make you think.