OK. I will go ahead and start with "do not miss this movie!!!!!!!" There-I got that out of the way.

We have just returned from the theater and so I thought I would share some of my thoughts. I am going to assume most people know the story so there is no reason to go into that. Also, since most of the critics have panned the film you know it is an excellent movie. It is an amazingly inspirational film-depending on your emotional quotient in a movie theater you may want to have some Kleenex with you. My next statement will either encourage you or depress you. The Christian message in this film is quite overt-and I do mean overt! If you are a Christian and have seen films that are supposed to be Christian in nature you have become accustomed to either seeing the message extremely watered down or so different from the real thing that is becomes just about unrecognizable. Such is not the case with Soul Surfer.

While it may take some time to get accustomed to seeing Dennis Quaid singing worship songs and reading the Bible along with Carrie Underwood quoting Jeremiah 29: 11, the result is satisfying. As a Christian there were a couple of things that I appreciated. First, the Christians in the film are not a series of one dimensional characters-there is questioning, fear, anger, despair along with many of the other emotions one would expect in a set of such devastating circumstances. Secondly, the power of faith and the Scripture are put visibly on display. There are a number of very powerful moments in the film-especially when a missions trip is embarked on with World Vision to Southeast Asia following the tsunami of 2004.

Of course there will be those that disdain the movie simply because of it's honest portrayal of Christianity. Then there will be the cynics among us. The first type of cynic that will emerge is the same one who will complain that Christianity doesn't work in real life-thus it is a problem when we see such a clear example of when it does "work." Then there is the complaint of the lack of realism because "everything turns out in the end." This would be the same person who will weep at the "Rocky" type film when everything works out-but then complain when the happy ending story happens to be true.

Now let me speak to the person who complains that Hollywood never puts out anything good-so they don't go see anything. Please realize that movie makers don't care how much you complain-they care about how much money they make. So if you think this is the kind of film that you would like to see more of then support this one. Go see it-in the theater-and then go see it again! You will be glad you did.