This is a fantastic movie. Passionate, energetic, compelling, and tragic. The script crackles along with wit and pathos, the acting is superlative (esp. Neeson, who, I read, waited some 10 years to play the part while Jordan wrote the script and chased funding), the directing outstanding. Truly magnificent.

The historical era it covers is a tough one, not least for an Irishman like myself - the birth of the IRA, the guerrilla army of the Irish Republic which had been declared at the Easter rising of 1916 (with which the film opens). Despite that rising's failure, the survivors continued to behave as if the Republic was a reality and when, in the 1918 elections, the Irish people overwhelmingly endorsed the Republic, the elected officials refused to go to London, but formed a secessionist government in Ireland, complete with a Taoiseach (Prime Minister) Eamon De Valera, and a cabinet of ministers, including Collins. Collins was tasked with organizing the Republic's "army," the IRA, to fight the inevitable British backlash. And so the War of Independence started.

All of this is wonderfully portrayed in the film, though some of the complexities are glossed over, as they must be for a film. Collins is shown as the man he was, a brilliant organizer and leader, a master of counter-intelligence, and a ruthless opponent of British rule, but one who despised the lengths he was forced to go to fight the superior British Empire and bring it to its knees. A warrior who longed for peace. Stirring stuff.

The most controversial aspect of the film is undoubtedly the Collins-De Valera relationship. Collins is depicted as fiercely loyal to "his chief," but De Valera, himself a pedant and micromanager, is jealous of Collins' dashing style, the natural loyalty he evinces in others, and his growing popularity. So when the British offer to negotiate, De Valera sent Collins to lead the team - in the full knowledge that whoever was in that role would have to return with a compromise solution, since the British would never recognize the Republic outright.

And so it turned out. After three months in London, where he cut a figure in society circles, Collins returned with a Treaty that De Valera instantly lead the charge to denounce. Pushing matters to the extreme, De Valera openly incited armed resistance to the pro-Treaty side, and a civil war ensued (1922-1923). Collins defended the treaty as giving Ireland "the freedom to achieve freedom," while his purist opponents demanded the Republic be defended and fought for. Collins lost his life in that pointless war, and with him Ireland lost one of her most gifted sons.

My father liked to tell me a story about Collins. My dad used to go up to Belfast for golf games with friends, many of whom were Protestants and fiercely Unionist (that is, they supported the Union of N. Ireland and Britain and opposed the Republic). One night, he said, after a few quiet pints after a game, one of these Unionist friends leaned over to my dad and said "I tell you, this would be a different country if Michael Collins had lived." My father almost fell of his seat (not from the pints of Guinness). Here was a Unionist praising the former head of the IRA, the man who had led to the establishment of the Irish Republic (which was finally made official in 1937), which the Unionists opposed. My father asked how this could be and all his friend would say is "Great man, great man."

That is even some Unionists in the North of Ireland could see that Collins was a man of principle, a pragmatist, and a person they could deal with. The same could not be said for the pedantic, nit-picking and fiercely Catholic Eamon De Valera.

The final quote in the film says it all: "It is my considered opinion that in the fullness of time history will recognize the greatness of Michael Collins, and it will do so at my expense" - Eamon De Valera, 1966.