First, I'd like to point out the fact that I hate hype. If I hear critics saying "it changed my life" then I will care even less about a movie. In fact, if someone tells me a movie will make me feel something, I'll try my hardest to NOT feel that.

Second, Shari Springer Berman and Rob Pulcini get top props for

actually achieving everything people were saying they had. It was oscar nominated and 25 more wins and 21 nominations at other festivals and organizations.

This movie did make me laugh, cry and think. It made me realize I'm just the same as the main characters: I have funny lines, but tradegy is waiting just a half an act away.

American Splendor is the (basically) true story of Harvey Pekar. A simple file clerk at a VA hospital, his second marriage going poorly, and the poor sap is losing his voice, from a hole in his vocal cords. This guy can't catch a break: after he gets home from the doctors, his wife leaves him. He's depressed, with no where to go.

Flashback a couple years, where Harvey is at a garage sale, feeding one of his habits: vinyl record collecting. He's with some friends, when they introduce him to a strange looking guy named Rob Crumb. He's a bookish type, who is also into jazz records, and comic books so they hit it off. Rob, however doesn't just like comics however, he has started to draw them.

Back to Harvey's divorce, Crumb is now famous on the underground comics scene, and Harvey realizes he's done nothing with his life. After a hilarious scene in a a grocery store, Harvey thinks 'I'll just write a comic about the stuff in my life.'

This movie used a couple things to get a four star rating: innovation, heart, and of course, the disc itself.

The innovation, in the sense that the people the actors are portraying take part in interviews, they are there in stock footage, and Harvey even narrates over Paul Giammati's acting out his life. This was a great idea, because you feel 'wow, harvey was real, his life did suck, his wife joyce was crazy, etc.' You don't see a lot of biopics where the actors are actually being 'directed' by the people that lived it.

It's got heart, as I said, because of it's bold faced truth, and simplicity. The film makers captured so much feeling...

And finally, the disc. Picture quality is pretty good, even in the scenes shot in beta. There isn't much grain, and the colors are dulled on pupose. None of this hinders viewing. The sound however, is standard, as the music is about the same volume as the voices, and sometimes I had trouble hearing something that was important.

Special features are everywhere! There's so many, they had to hide some. For a one disc set, and not even a 'special-perfect-collectors-criterion' or anything.

The commentary is awesome. We have Harvey Pekar, his wife, Joyce Brabner, his best friend (and funniest character) Toby Radloff, their daughter Danielle Batone, Paul Giamatti who plays Harvey, the directors, and eventual Judah Friedlander (who I recognized from I love the 80's.... shudder). They cover everything from cameos, anachronisms, film techniques, and the real life truths versus some of the film's fudged writing.

We also get a featurette about the Pekars, and their life after the movie. A comic, some hilarious easter eggs, and the common trailers and dvd rom links. A good movie that deserved some credit, about a guy who never got enough.