So I was watching "Purple Rain" the other day, just the ending actually, and I've never seen the beginning or middle so I really have no idea what the thing is all about. I gather from Prince's other movie it's more "Soulmate" kinda stuff but I'm not really sure. Anyway, so I was watching it and Morris Day and the time, who play the antagonists in the movie, they're on stage doing this upbeat funk style song "The Bird," right? And the audience is into it. Because not only is it a song - it's also a dance. THE dance. According to them anyway. I mean they're REALLY into it. Dancing and squaking and all that. Because that's part of "The Bird" - the squaking. So they really get the audience into it, and I guess it's some sort of best-band contest or something. So you start thinking, "I feel sorry for whoever has to follow that." Wouldn't you know it...it's Prince. Yep. Prince is the one who has to follow it. And as Morris Day and the Time exit the stage...they pass Prince's dressing room. The door is open. There is tension in the air. They walk down the hallway laughing, celebrating, all the while knowing how great they just did and what an obsticle Prince has to overcome if he's going to win. It seems impossible. And as Morris Day passes Prince's locker room, he says something snyde. Something cruel. Something I don't remember. But I know it was something hurtful, I know it was. SO...our man Prince prepares to take the stage and even though he has the backing of The Revolution, he still somehow feels all alone. He walks out. Somber. Sorrowful. Sad. A chill comes over the audience. After all, they'd just done "The Bird"...they were so excited about it too. And now this sorrowful, somber purple guy is coming out and breaking up the vibe. One would have expected him to try and top "The Bird" with some upbeat funk of his own. That's where Prince's strategy comes into play. There is a hush. A silence. A nervous tension. Prince steps up to the microphone. He casually yet emotionally dedicates the next song to his dad. The crowd is in awe. What is this man doing? Prince starts playing his guitar. A slow, reflective, sorrowful melody. THIS is what he's doing to top "The Bird"? He's got to be out of his mind. But somehow, as he starts into "Purple Rain" the audience becomes sad too. "I only wanted just one time to see you laughing. I only wanted to see you laughing in the Purple Rain..." By this point...the audience is his. They too wanted to see Prince's dad laughing in the Purple Rain. Or maybe their own dads. Does it matter? Is there even a difference? Not now. They're so enveloped in the melancholy mood that they're even willing to pardon the next verse, "I never wanted to be your weekend lover..." Now, really...who does want to be their own dad's weekend lover? Maybe someone else's dad, but...ya know. The audience doesn't even care. Because they've forgotten about Prince's dad. They've forgotten about everything that brought them to this point. They're living completely in this moment. This sad, powerful, sorrowful moment. A request by Prince for "everybody over here to come on wave your hands" is answered by the entire audience in unison engaging in the act of hand waving. And the lighters...oh the lighters. They're out in full force. Not that "Full Force" is in this movie...they're in the original House Party, not Purple Rain. It's just an expression though. And so..."The Bird" is forgotten. Prince's dad lives on. Prince knows times are changing and it's time we all reach out for something new, that means you too. And Prince wins over the crowd with the power of sadness. Later he goes on to tell us that he would die for us, he's not our lover, he's not our friend, he's something that we'll never comprehend. All true statements continuing the theme of sadness and its power. Did he win the contest? I don't think we ever truly find out. But he won the movie. That's for sure. It certainly wasn't Morris Day and/or The Time. It was Prince. And it was all due to the power of sadness.

Can I get everybody over here to come on wave your hands?

I thought so, my friend. I thought so.