What a problem classic Disney style animation had in the last half of the nineties.  No animated film could surpass the success of The Lion King, the new style of computer animation began winning over audiences with Toy Story, and the creative team was pushing for more "serious" and "realistic" stories even as some people were begining to lament the dour, political correctness of Pocahontas.
  But lets talk about THIS film.  How to describe this unusual entry in the Disney movie cannon?  It's Beauty and the Beast...only darker and with issues.
  It follows the story of Quasimodo, the shut-in abused child (like Cinderella) who's dream is to be accepted by the world. The movie opens in grand operatic style, as Judge Frollo (a judge with some religious status, I'm not up on church hierarchies of the time) kills Quasi's mom right in front of a church's (almost) deserted steps.  The film has lots of such heightened theatrics that are very effective...and too intense for some youngsters.
 Frollo is forced to adopt Quasi by the priest who witnesses the act.  There's strong pathos for Quasi as we witness the disturbing views of Judge Frollo pushed on him in daily lessons about the "cruel world" that can only see him as "deformed and ugly."  Frollo tells him to never venture out of the cathedral, but of course Quasi listens to his heart and does anyway.  He then falls for the gypsy girl Esmerelda (who, just like Pocahantas, is quite sexy for a Disney heroine.  Considering Frollo lusts after her through much of the movie, it makes sense).  Esmerelda is voiced by Demi Moore, and Pheobus, the captain of the guard who also falls for her (hey, the girl's got it) is voiced by Kevin Kline.
  The wise-cracking gargoyle sidekicks and the street performer that narrates (sings) the introduction and gets the showstopping "Feast of Fools" number, round out the cast.
  I was really taken with this movie when it was first released and I still admire it, but now I see it as a product of this difficult period in classic-style animation.  It's skill in animation and it's heavier dramatic themes make it some kind of unique achievement, but the mood to watch it doesn't strike me as much as it once did.
  The good thing is the wisecracking sidekicks are kept in check for the sake of better drama.  I like sidekick characters.  Aladdin's genie and Mulan's Mushu certainly added great appeal to those films, but some movies pile on the gags when I just want to see what the human characters are thinking.  But where's the magic and fantasy?  Not every animated film has to be Aladdin, but the "serious and realistic" trend that Disney (and Dreamworks with Prince of Egypt) was following at the time really seems misguided in hindsight.  But Hercules, which followed this movie, wasn't widely appreciated either.  Disney eventually went to broader comedy like The Emperor's New Groove or cheaper productions like Brother Bear and straight to video.  Dreamworks made a good effort at resurrecting fantasy with Sinbad: Legend of the Seven Seas.  But the moment for classic-style animation was fleeting.  Computer animated fare like Shrek and the Increbibles are the rage now.  I would like to see this style make a comeback.  Maybe it's due for one.
  If you want an animated musical with darker than usual themes and done with great skill, this movie is a must see.  But if you're like me, most of the time you're more in the mood for something like Aladdin or Sinbad.