Equally bittersweet, melancholy, funny, and of course the nebulous and lazy word used to describe movies such as this, quirky, Submarine is ultimately quite good and touching if a bit derivative. In fact, when the film frees itself from the self-conscious "quirkiness" (again, I really dislike that term but it does fit in this case) of its first half and delves deeper into its emotional core, it improves a great deal. Written and directed by Richard Ayoade from the book by Joe Dunthorne, Submarine tells the story of Oliver Tate, a sensitive, intelligent, slightly nerdy, verbose, affected, solitary teenager dealing with his first real relationship and the possibility of his parents' marriage ending.

While not the most original premise, Submarine does manage to find its own voice eventually but still manages to wear its influences on its sleeve. The most obvious is of course Wes Anderson, right down to the nonspecific time period (the older technology seems to put the film in the 80s, but there's nothing that specifically anchors it there). The Welsh setting is used well to give the film a distinct identity, and the cinematography really showcases the beautiful landscape. Alex Turner of the Arctic Monkeys provides original songs whose melancholy beauty matches the film's tone perfectly.

The cast is uniformly good. Craig Roberts keeps Oliver sympathetic with just the right amount of confidence, vulnerability, and charm. Noah Taylor and Sally Hawkins are perfectly understated as Oliver's depressed father and conflicted mother. Paddy Considine manages to find some depth in his somewhat thankless and ridiculous role as a psychic guru. Yasmin Paige plays Oliver's aloof, somewhat inscrutable love interest Jordana. Both character and actress are a good counter-balance to Oliver. While this is Oliver's story, Jordana has well-defined motivations and is a fully developed character, not the typical poorly drawn object of affection usually seen in films like this. She's no manic pixie dream girl and how Oliver believably, although regrettably, reacts to her character's situation later in the film, along with Oliver's bond with his father, is the heart of the film.