Marebito (Stranger from Afar)
Takashi Shimizu - Japan, 2004

A reviewer of our 2007 "Shaver Revival" sci-fi movie Beyond Lemuria said that we should have a place in the history of science fiction films as the first Shaver Mystery movie. As much as I appreciate that recommendation, the credit must go to Takashi Shimizu (Grudge 1&2) and his team for their moody, introspective 2004 horror film Marebito.
This film avoids the sudden shocks of the Grudge films (amplified by loud
musical "stings"). Marebito creates a subtle mood of brooding terror and mystery which progresses downward into the gloomy underworld beneath modern Tokyo while descending deeper in the subjective torment of the protagonist's developing psychosis.
 Tokyo, like most modern cities, has a multi-level subterranean network of subways and utility tunnels that connect to earlier abandoned and forgotten excavations at deeper levels. The tormented video-journalist Masuoka witnesses a grisly suicide in the subway. Driven by a compulsion to discover the unknown terror that caused the man to kill himself, Masuoka explores this gloomy netherworld, going deeper and deeper until he reaches a dark passage between the worlds where he meets the ghost of the suicide. The ghost gives him a brief explanation of The Shaver Mystery and warns him to beware of the deros.
 Masuoka ignores the warning and enters the Cavern World of the ancients---which this film depicts as vast and mysteriously lighted. We get an impression of a Hollow Earth like Burroughs' Pellucidar. Here Masuoka finds `F' the mute and naked female dero chained in a rocky niche.
 Next we find him with `F' in his Tokyo apartment. She won't talk and she won't eat. She scuttles on all-fours like an animal and has fangs. He discovers that she is a vampire and he must feed her blood: --his, that of live animals, and finally---as his psychosis degenerates into homicidal mania---other people.
 Masuoka flees Tokyo and takes refuge in the countryside where he has a moment of clarity and realizes that he has killed his ex-wife and that `F' is actually his daughter whom he may also have killed---but the other world returns. The ghost of the suicide finally answers Masuoka's question: What was the ultimate terror that caused him to take his life?
 "Ancient knowledge!"
 --In agreement  with Richard Shaver and H.P. Lovecraft.
 Once again resuming his dark quest, Masuoka returns to Tokyo.
On the way to his apartment he glimpses the deros running on all-fours in the shadows. He realizes that they are in another dimension. At his apartment he collects `F'. He and 'F' then descend into the subways, and the abandoned tunnels beneath. Finally they reach the dark limbo between the worlds where he realizes the ultimate terror as his beloved dero begins to devour him.
 According to Shaver, dero vampires (like wealthy and powerful vampires on the surface) maintain their youth with regular transfusions of baby-blood. We get closer to the truth in Beyond Lemuria but Takashi Shimizu's metaphor is still on the mark---even if `F' didn't have the characteristic dero "white eyes"--but if `F' was Masuoka's daughter...?
---For more on Shaver, and Shaver films visit www.shavertron.com

Poke Runyon,
Writer-Producer: Beyond Lemuria