aaahhh, our foolish American Cousins... Felt I simply had to comment on the negative reviews from this page particularly Utah.  Utah mook talks of every joke being smutty and body-function based - Are you watching the correct DVD.  There are more references to sex and toilet humor than the US version, and thats mainly because your television companies treat you like children, who can't possible hear anything risque on Prime time basic cable.  The BBC in England are a little more respectful to their audience.  And as for having to turn the sub-titles on, it never ceases to amaze me how Americans can't understand their own language when spoken in a slightly different accent (funny how you can probably understand cousin Cletus from THE SIMPSONS - what does that tell you)

The office is PERFECT - casting, writing, the slow burn of story arcs, and most importantly comic timing.  In the US OFFICE, timing is equated with long pauses.  Gareth in the UK series has probably the best comic timing in the show, and its these nuances that lift it to near divine comedy, and above the heads of the US nay-sayers.

Absolutely, if you need a bit of an edgy comedy like the UK Office but can't quite manage to get your head around the subtly and sublime darkness of Ricky Gervais et al, then go for the easier, more pedestrian version that is the US version.  The US version is the OFFICE Lite or the Office for Dummies....or Utah mooks.  Its for people who think Will Farrell is funny.

The tragedy of David Brent really is just that, painful, funny, heart wrenchingly sad, and ball bouncingly pathetic.  Its harsh and caustic and brutal and maybe not for US palettes, who seem to be much more content for easy laughs and a happy ending. Steve Carrell plays a slightly more awkward Steve Carrell.  You are always aware that you are watching Steve Carrell.  The American version, not without laughs I grant you, has the actors playing caricatures instead of characters, especially Dwight.  He is not in the same universe as his UK counterpart.