You've probably seen The Lodger as a tired old black and white print. So glory be: Here's the refurbished print with sepia, blue, and rose tints restored and a music score (by Ashley Irwin, 1999) that powerfully supports the drama. At last you can really enjoy this landmark film, which is just one good idea after another.

The Supplements are worthwhile, but mostly boil down to Hitchcock's biography, even "The Making of..." featurette. There's only about a half-dozen anecdotes about making the film that have accumulated over the years. A half-hour radio dramatization of The Lodger is included, with Herbert Marshall as narrator and lodger, characterized as a religious fanatic; before it can be concluded, "Hitchcock" interrupts Mr. Marshall so there is no resolution.

Let's probe our four principals a bit. The mother Marie Ault had just done two popular "Rat" pictures with Ivor Novello, so this casting was a lure to bring British audiences to The Lodger. She and father Arthur Chesney enjoyed long movie and tv careers. In spite of his smooth pate, Chesney should remind you of his brother, Edmund Gwynne. Detective Malcolm Keene also appeared many times on movie and tv screens. The daughter June made only a few films, probably by her choice. Online I do find one photo of her as a dancer, likely a solo dancer as suggested by her solo name.

Ivor Novello was already a matinee idol when he made The Lodger. That's why the original novel (The Lodger) and the stage play (Who Is He?) were modified to make the protagonist sympathetic. Ivor's films span 1919-1934. In the 1930s and 40s he wrote and starred in elaborate musicals in the West End, generally of Ruritanian flavor. To be noted, his beautiful singing voice deserted him at puberty, so in the musicals he was Prince Charming while the ladies vocalized. In his movie period Ivor had a brief stint at MGM, but the execs found him to be, well, not quite Kosher--well, to be blunt, GAY. So they squirreled him away to write the script for Tarzan the Ape Man. Remember "Me Tarzan, you Jane"? Well, Ivor wrote that, and was left so parched he went back to England for his cup of tea. In 1951, after curtain calls, he went up to his flat above the theater, suffered a coronary seizure, and died. His buddy had to rush to Ivor's country home to burn papers and photos to spare Ivor & Friends ruinous embarrassment.

So come on, You there, join the Lodger in his sepia digs, two spacious rooms, tea and bread and butter, and hum "We'll Gather Lilacs" while Ivor princes about. Trust me, he wouldn't hurt a fly.