First and foremost, this movie is bad.  Not bad compared to Lord of the Rings bad, but bad compared to say, your six year old's elementary school stage adaptation of Lord of the Rings.

This is the story of some guy named Westender.  Apparently he used to be a big shot for some reason but that's not important enough to ever discuss.  He's drunk and sad because someone for some reason burned his wife a long time ago but that's not explained either so don't bother looking.  Now he and this gypsy lady miss her.  The only thing he has to remember her by is her ring which last night in a drunken game of some kind of wooden poker he lost.  Now he must set off across Oregon, er...whatever kingdom they're living in, to get it back from the slavers who stole it from the guy who stole it from him within one week's time so he can run away with his new gypsy friend whom we never hear about again so don't bother looking for that either.  Thus begins about two hours of walking.  The first hour he walks through the forest with a new found friend and the occasional fight scene apparently choreographed by that same elementary school troupe.  Eventually he falls into a river and his buddy inexplicably runs away and he winds up at the beach, er..the desert, or both seemingly.  Thus begins a good 15-20 minutes of him walking interrupted only by the occasional bout of uncontrollable crying and flailing about.  He finally tracks down the slavers but their nasty leader who carries the ring flees and he must make the grand hero's choice to chase the ring or stay and help the random slave girls who have no lines and don't even show the obligatory nudity that so often turns terrible films into terrible films with boobs.

Dialogue is almost non-existent in this film which is actually a plus, as the few lines that are uttered only serve to highlight the atrocious writing and amazingly worse delivery of the dare-I-say "actors".  Oddly enough, the production values of the movie and even the DVD itself, which has a few extras, are relatively high for an independent film.  This only makes one wonder how someone managed to pitch this travesty to someone else who in turn forked over money for the endeavor and why, with such powers, aren't they ruling the world.  Avoid this film.  In fact, go and drink heavily for several hours.  Go now...live free.