I'm really torn with the Director's Cut. On one hand, I was glad to get the never-before-seen scenes. On the other, I thought this film was fine the way it was. The Director's Cut came off as being much "darker" than the original.

I guess my one big complaint about the Director's Cut is that even though they added a lot more scenes, they also took a few away. I didn't mind the flashbacks, but they took away some of the dialogue between the Whammer and Hobbs on the train. There were a couple other fairly inconsequential scenes that are no longer in the film.

The original was easier to follow, and I wonder how easy it would be to follow the Director's Cut without having seen the original. Since Robert Redford played Hobbs when he first set out to start his career, it might be a little confusing for those who see those early scenes, while at the same time seeing a "grown up" Hobbs as he reflects on his life. The only thing that might help clear it up is when Hobbs mentions that he was out of the game for 16 years.

Also, I gave the original film the benefit of the doubt with regards to the games that were played at Wrigley Field. When Hobbs hits the home run that breaks the clock, it appears as though it was a game ending home run, due to the editing, but if you look closely, none of the players walk off the field as though the game is over (the Cubs would have last at bats.) However, when he hits four home runs the next day, you can clearly hear the announcer's voiceovers describe the home runs as being hit in the bottom of each inning. Oops.

I don't want to spoil anything, but there was one interesting new scene between Bump and Roy. Given that Bump was just told that he has one more chance to shape up, his actions towards Roy aren't surprising at all.

Despite his MAJOR flaws with regards to the shady women in his life, Roy Hobbs is still a hero. I would still highly recommend either one of these films, but would probably favor the original. I could have enjoyed a Director's Cut even if they just put the new scenes into their special features disc instead of ingrained into the actual movie.

Whammer, "Scared?"
Hobbs, "Not of you, I'm not."