I'd love to write an unrestrained positive review for this film.  The concept, and often the execution, are unlike anything else we've seen.  If you're a horror film fan (and ONLY if you're a BIG fan), this is must viewing.  There are moments of dread in this film that are exquisite, that can stand with any other film ever made.

What I like...to me, it's not so much that the puzzle box calls the Cenobites (although, admittedly, I believe Pinhead says those exact words).  It's that it peels back the walls, so that we can see what is always there.  It's not so much that Pinhead and Co. are scary, although they are.  It's the idea that they are so close to us all the time, separated only by this thin veneer of "reality."  The feeling I get when the Cenobites are arriving is that same exquisite dread I get from Lovecraft's best moments.  I think it's the feeling that a lot of us are after in this "horror" experience.

Why not a 5?  Well, it arguably should be, since I tend to agree that it's a classic of the genre.  Unfortunately classic horror films can be substandard in so many ways...we'll forgive a lot for those rare great moments.  To me, you've got to wade through a lot of crap in this movie.  There is not a single character on screen that I can identify with or like.  As horrific as the Cenobites are, how much worse would it have been if they were showing up to terrorize actual human beings?  Ok, the teen heroine does engender some moments of empathy, but these are undermined by script contrivances that test our credulity.  Andrew Robinson is terrible, although when he's bad he's better (if you know what I mean).  The movie falls prey to that unfortunate trait of so many 80's films...a preponderance of cheese.  And the ending...the movie goes off the tracks a little, as those symbols of consummate evil, the Cenobites...become surprisingly ineffectual.  It undermines the horrific moments when they are later so easily dispatched.  I would have preferred they just stuck with their bargain...because the creatures in my head could NOT be beaten.

Still, solid 4, and some of the best moments in horror cinema.