I was very excited to finally get THIS IS CINERAMA on Blu-ray, not having seen it since the late-1990s screenings at the New Neon Movies in Dayton.

It is important to understand that this is a lovingly-made video release of a film with limited contemporary appeal produced on a very limited budget by a small team of enthusiasts.  It is not a major studio release, so you have to temper your expectations a bit.

Still, I was dismayed to learn that the transfer was based on the composite 65mm negative for the crummy 70mm release made in the early 1970s instead of the original three-strip camera negatives or best available print, but apparently all other elements are in much poorer condition and would have required extensive restoration.  Using the 65mm negative certainly beats having no video release at all, and I'll bet it saved a lot of time using this element in which the three panels were already synchronized.

But some of the consequences of this choice are reduced sharpness and the fact that the transfer is at 24 fps (really 23.976 fps for home video) instead of 26 fps (is 26 fps even supported by Blu-ray or DVD?).  I assume that when the 70mm version was made, every 13th frame was dropped.  According to the restoration documentary, the 65mm negative was transferred to anamorphic 16x9 1080p, where registration fixes, color grading and cleanup were performed.  Then the resulting master was rendered into the smilebox format, resulting in a further loss of sharpness due to the variable resizing to similar dimensions.  Scanning the 65mm at 4K and working with that until the final rendering to smilebox might have helped (if the detail was there on the negative), but I suspect there wasn't the budget for that.

Some very impressive and meticulous work was done to make the resulting transfer presentable, all covered in an informative documentary in the special features.  But as this video release was targeted to coincide with the 60th anniversary of the first Cinerama screenings, maybe there was a time crunch that cut short the cleanup effort.  I noticed a sudden skip in the music at the start of the final aerial sequence, a number of points where hair and dust are visible at the edges of the frame, a periodic greenish throbbing in the lower 1/4 of the image during the La Scala sequence, and some points during the Cypress Gardens sequence where the panel alignment could have been improved.  It could be that these blemishes were simply too hard to fix.

The image sharpness is better than a DVD but falls short of a typical Blu-ray.  Color quality is generally quite good throughout, but I agree with some of the other reviews that the gamma is a little off, making the image a little too contrasty when viewed on properly-calibrated equipment.  Maybe the intent was to simulate the look of the original Technicolor prints.

The audio quality was surprisingly good.  I have some previous albums of the soundtrack, and this is probably the best the perky score by Max Steiner and Roy Webb has ever sounded.

The bonus materials are a treat.  One of the highlights was a peek into John Harvey's personal Cinerama screening room back in the 1990s.

Despite some minor issues, this release is an impressive effort and a must-buy for any Cinerama fan.