I first watched this film when it came out and disliked it.  After seeing clips again in my art classes that reminded me of how beautiful the animation was, I decided to give it another shot but came to the exact same conclusion that I had years ago- the film on the whole... doesn't really add up to an enjoyable experience in the end.

To start off with the positive aspect- the animation work itself, the movement and the character designs and the staging and the general artistry are stunning- whoever as in charge absolutely knew what they were doing and I applaud them.

On the other end the vocal section of the music varies from alright to insipid ("Playing With the Big Boys Now" is one of the more terrible songs I've heard in an animated film), and while I knew to expect it knowing the story the continued demonization of one of my favorite ancient cultures in almost every single movie that addresses them is always disheartening.  Obviously there is more to a film than these things, but I can not give an honest analysis on more nuanced issues such as background orchestral music or the nuances of vocal performances however because of my largest problem with the film- it's unbelievably depressing.  "Grave of the Fireflies" depressing, without even the little pieces of cheeriness that film allowed itself.

"Prince of Egypt" is depressing to the point where it becomes difficult to focus on anything else, and both my brother and I were left speechless at how what is meant to be a great story of triumph for a culture could drag itself into such a colossal downer.  I would certainly not expect them to turn something that many people take so seriously as a completely happy story, but there has to be -some- kind of balance one can strike between that and everything ending in utter depressing tragedy.

If you're a fan of the art of animation for its own sake or someone looking for a beautifully rendered cultural/religious touchstone and can handle a certain amount of violence in an animated film, I would recommend this for you.  I know there are many people who enjoy it and  I'm glad of that because a great deal of good work was put into the production.  But for myself, my brother who re-watched it with me, and several others I have spoken to, the way the story falls off into everyone miserable or dead is just too much to be able to glean further enjoyment out of it.