I absolutely LOVE this film!  My father is a WWII veteran.  I think of him and his peers when I view this movie.  So many aspects of coming home from war are touched upon in this film.  When I see it, I wonder sometimes if we have really changed so much.

Here is why I say this...The soldier longs for home, for his family, for his girl.  And then when the day finally arrives that he is actually going home, the uncertainty sets in.  I know I've changed.  Will my family understand this?  What will they think of me?  Will I be able to relate to them?  Or the soldier who suffered the loss of his hands.  How will people treat me?  Will I be able to function as a man and provide for my family?  Or will people feel sorry for me/pity me?  The soldier who comes home only to find that his wife has moved on.  That she is selfish, only thinking of herself and the next good time.  The realization that the relationship was superficial from the beginning.  That just when he needs support the most, it is not there.

As well, the family who waits for the returning soldier.  They have been dreaming of this day for a long time.  But when he finally is home, he is somewhat like a stranger.  They know that he has been through experiences that they will never fully understand.  The wife's desire for things to "get back to normal."  The reality that things can and never will completely be the same.  The returning father who tries to relate to his children.  He remembers as they were when he left, but they have grown up now.  They can't fully relate to what their father has been through. Then there is the "cluelessness" of the folks in the community who wonder where the soldier has been all this time.  They have no understanding of what the soldier has been through or how they have changed...nor do they want to hear much about it.

The performances in this film are stellar and the musical soundtrack really captures the heart of the film.  One of the most telling scenes is when Dana Andrews (who played a former tail gunner) climbs into a junked bomber parked in a field.  As he looks out the dirty windshield with the sweat running down his face, he starts to imagine, once again, that he is in the heat of battle.  The music reaches a crescendo that transports us into the battle with the loud and unwavering hum of the bombers as they enter a dangerous confrontation with the enemy.  The fact that an actual veteran, played by Harold Russell, with a real disability is in the movie helps make it the classic that is truly is.  He was basically untrained as an actor, which contributes to the everyman appeal of this film.  You couldn't ask for a better cast in this film, Frederic March, Myrna Loy, Virginia Mayo, Teresa Wright, Cathy O'Donnell, Dana Andrews, and Harold Russell.

I hope that MGM, or whoever the distributor is, will come out with a fully restored version and a documentary that talks about the making of and legacy of this wonderful film.