First of all, I love the movie. When I watched this movie in the theater I was dazed and couldn't believe the great imagery, the magnificent acting by Denzel Washington (one of my favorite actors) and Russell Crowe, but also the seamless and very personal direction by Ridley Scott, who has made such great films as Alien, Blade Runner, Thelma and Louise, and Gladiator. I was looking forward to getting this movie and it was one of the reasons I bought a HD DVD player last January (not the only reason, of course). Which is why this release is such a letdown.
The picture quality on this release didn't stand out as much as Batman Begins or Bourne Supremacy, or even The Thing, did, but it is quite good. The picture was just too dark several times and the colors were toned down, which can also be because of Scott's chosen palette for the film. Otherwise is the picture quite good, but not great.
The sound is a big letdown. I would expect Universal to include a Dolby TrueHD track especially on this release, because of it's importance to Universal's HD DVD support. The sound itself is Dolby Digital Plus 5.1 and it is alright. I never feel like I am hearing the HD soundtrack, like with Batman Begins or The Matrix trilogy, but it is better than a normal DVD soundtrack, which tends to be very narrow. The sound on this release is much more open but it not the knockdown HD sound that Warner has included on the aforementioned movies and with Blade Runner.
The extra features is very meager. The extended version of the film can only be seen in the standard definition side B of the disc, which is a major letdown to all fans of the movie and HD DVD. It does have a commentary track with Scott and Steven Zaillian, the writer, which is interesting. The disc has no documentary on the making of the film, just a 4 minute long mini documentary of the real Frank Lucas and Richie Roberts. Universal can really learn from Warner with it's releases of the Matrix trilogy and Blade Runner on how to properly release really great movies. It seems like Universal has gone out  it's way to release feature packed version on DVD and not on HD DVD. Has Universal lost it's confidence in HD DVD can one wonder.
And another thing. I really dislike these combo versions of a film. As I see it it's a no win situation for the consumer. A person that doesn't have a HD DVD player and buys it would be frustration because he/she payed so much for a version of the film that they cannot see before they invest in a HD DVD player. And if a person that has a HD DVD player buys it he/she feels cheated because of fact that they had to pay extra for a version of the film that they wouldn't see. And in addition there have been reported errors with them. On the disc that I have it froze halfway through the film. I restarted my player and then the playback went fine from that point.

I would still recommend this release to people who have a HD DVD player, because the film is so great and the disc isn't all that bad.