When I first heard about Stranger Than Fiction I thought it looked like it would be hilarious. Yet, it wasn't just a light comedy. This film has a good plot and an even better ending. This is indeed a comical film yet it also has in depth meaning. The ending is unexpected, unlike most films. The writer, Zach Helm, knew what he was doing when he wrote this story about Harold Crick and Marc Forster, the director, did a great job on making it happen.

 The main character, Harold Crick (Will Ferrell), is an everyday, ordinary guy who has an uneventful life. Among counting brush strokes, his steps on the way to work, the time it takes to put on a tie, and going to sleep at the same time every night, he also goes to his boring job everyday as an IRS auditor. Although, despite his daily ritual, he has acquired this voice only he can hear and it's narrating his life. Almost everything he does is being announced by a british women, who he later finds out is Kay Eiffel (Emma Thompson). Kay is writing a novel about Harold Crick, yet she has no idea that he is a real person until Harold calls her. Harold is in a panic when he hears about his death in the narration and that's why he has to contact Kay immediately.

 During the time of the narration, Harold meets Ana Pascal (Maggie Gyllenhaal) who he is intrigued by. Ms. Pascal despises him because of the fact that he represents the government and is auditing her. With some persistence, Harold seems to hit it off and get the girl.

 With the guidance of a literature professor, Jules Hilbert (Dustin Hoffman), Harold finds the author of the novel about him and tries to stop her from killing him at the end. The professor insists that the novel won't be as good if he doesn't die at the end and tells him that it's a sacrifice he must take. Kay doesn't think she can kill him so she ends up seriously hurting him but a shard of his watch saves him. The ending was surprising because as soon as that bus hits him and Kay was crying while typing, I couldn't help but to believe she killed him.

 This film is witty yet full of drama. It's a very big decision at the end. If Kay lets Harold live, her novel will just be another bit of entertainment, but if she kills him, her novel will be a piece of great literature. Harold's fate is entirely in Kay's decision.

 This film is ingenious. It definitely has clever aspects that are quite original and funny that makes it different than other films.