I couldnt disagree more with some of the common complaints i hear about this movie. in my personal opinion, people seem to dislike everything that makes this movie so great and fresh. A previous reviewer stated that this "documentary-like renactment....is not cinematic or captivating" which seems to be a plea against parts of Finchers directing style which i feel are exactly what Hollywood needs. The documentary-like renactment is the opposite of the cheesy overdramatic (and "cinematic and captivating" as some would call it) types of conventional hollywood films which provide narrow and one-sided perspectives and in which you are forced to like the deemed good guys and hate the deemed bad guys (going against this, Fincher shows the incomptence and inter-departmental jealousy of the police but doesnt force you to have a negative perspective of them), and in which the morals of the plot are forced onto you. In this "documentary-like renactment", Fincher - as he usually does  -  allows the audience to decide the importance of events for themselves and even thier judgement and opinion of the characters themselves. This sort of open-endedness is typical of Fincher and what made Seven (in which you could have even agreed with the justification of the antagonist) and Fight Club (in which you could have sided with ANYTHING) such huge milestones in film. At the same time, Zodiac does give some guidance and direction to those rather passive audience members who tend to be less free-thinkers and need to be handed the truth because it gives the viewpoint of Jake Greysmith who's account of events is most popular today (and is, at the same time, open to dispute).

*VAGUE SPOILERS AHEAD - DO NOT READ IF YOU KNOW NOTHING OF THE CASE (WHICH IS PRETTY WELL CIRCULATED KNOWLEDGE, ANYWAYS)*

The so-called "unresolved ending" is, first of all, NOT unresolved. It is perfectly befitting for a true crime genre story because not only does it reveal to you who the bad guy is (which is not even definite - just according to jake greysmith anyway), but there is a sort of pleasurable feeling of insight on the audience (given you have some wit) that although the police didnt bust the guy after so much investigation, you get to know who perhaps the most notorious serial killer of the 20th century is (and all you spent was approx 3 hrs). Yeah welcome to postmodern stories where its not always ending in "happily ever after...". Perhaps, this is what makes David Fincher one of the only directors who makes movies with true postmodern plots. An ending with the protagonist merely knowing who the con is and looking him in the eye is a very resolved ending in postmodern literature and im glad Fincher tends to stick with the sort of plots that emply these sorts of endings as opposed to the sort where the "hero" goes to the evil man's mansion, kills 50 guys, saves the girl, and goes home scot-free.