The current state of the horror genre is, how shall is say, pretty sad.  It has come to the point where horror movies now seem exclusively targeted at teen audiences, with the choices being poor slasher flicks inspired by "Scream" (which was ironically supposed to parody that type of movie), potboilers of grue and gore such as Hostel, Saw and Turista, that rely solely on brutal cringe-wankery, and poorly executed existential horror movies such as Pulse and Stay Alive which try to be "edgy" by referencing computers and video games.  Sadly, movies of the last type seem to be now made mostly by hacks whose idea of subtlety is making actors look around with a panicked expression and shout "what's that?" while "scare music/sound effects" are triggered.

It wasn't always like this, however.  In the 1980s, John Carpenter made what was coined one of his "apocalypse trilogy" movies, Prince of Darkness (the others were The Thing and In the Mouth of Madness).  At its core, Prince of Darkness is an existential horror movie, in that its goal is to question the very nature of what is real, and man's place in the universe.  Considering that two of the main characters have the last names of Marsh and Danforth, it's no surprise that horror buffs will make the connection between this movie and H.P. Lovecraft's nihilistic style.  The basic storyline is as follows (spoilers to follow):  A dying priest passes on a cryptic diary to Father Loomis, played by Donald Pleasance.  In an attempt to unravel the secret of the Brotherhood of Sleep, Loomis enlists help from the scientific community, in the form of quantum physicist Dr. Birack, his graduate students, and other academics, who all congregate in a run-down church.  In that church's basement is an encrusted cylindrical device of incredible age, filled with a menacing, perpetually moving green liquid.  The academics, including sort-of lovers and main characters Brian Marsh and Catherine Danforth, get to work analyzing both the cylinder and an accompanying book, which turns out to be the "true" story of Christianity.

  While there are zombie-style horror elements, the most terrifying thing about Prince of Darkness is how it turns around what people assume due to religion.  It turns out that not only was Jesus a mentally unbalanced extraterrestrial, but that the universe is not watched over and controlled by a benevolent God, but rather an evil intelligence existing in the mirror image of our universe- an "Anti-God" whose son is Satan, and who is resurrecting Satan in our universe to bring its father back here to do Very Bad Things (tm).  The green liquid form of Satan ends up infecting people like a virus, while something (presumably the Anti-God)is affecting the nature of reality outside the church, as well as controlling a small army of mentally ill homeless people surrounding the church.  To add to the fun, the people inside the church start to have a recurring dream that seems more like a video transmission than a normal dream.

  The film does have its faults, notably a muted level of acting that sometimes borders on the wooden, as opposed to the across the board natural performances found in The Thing.  In addition, while the movie has a pretty nice slow build, the climactic sequence is rather abrupt in its approach.  I also found the "possessed homeless" threat to be little more than an excuse to keep the characters trapped in the church.  Still, the sheer chutzpah of a storyline that dares to be so outright "sacrilegious" (the Catholic Church is essentially branded the world's most egregious group of con men in this storyline) must be given proper due.  It also helps that both Dennis Dun and Victor Wong from "Big Trouble In Little China" give lively performances.  While I've seen this movie called "boring", I'd challenge that assertion.  After all, how boring is the concept that our entire existence remains at the whim of pure, cosmic evil, without any counterbalancing benevolent spirituality?  In the end, the sheer atmosphere of this movie helps keep it entertaining.