I saw The Mission when it was first released in the theater and was moved by the drama as well as the lyrical score by Ennio Morricone and the sumptuous visual production and sound. I have purchased this film in every format that it has been released in except laserdisc. As home video technology improves, I guess I am always searching for the ultimate reproduction of the experience I received in the theater upon its original release. I even sold my DVD copy in anticipation of this blu-ray release, and now wish I hadn't.

OK, the movie is still the same--a uniquely serious Hollywood examination of pacifism and war. Screenwriter Robert Bolt's dramatic treatment of two characters who both have critical reasons for following their opposite paths is as sensitive and timely today as it ever was. Robert DeNiro, who never quite manages to convince us that he is not from New York, nontheless delivers a powerful performance as a Spanish warrior and slave trader who seeks redemption by becoming a man of the cloth after killing his own brother. Jeremy Irons is the Jesuit missionary who tries with nonviolent resistance to protect the native people of Paraguay from enslavement and slaughter. Between them is the archbishop who must balance the ideals of the church with the political realities of trying to hold competing elements of Christendom together. The film is a special one with a complex interplay of ideas and deserves the best possible transfer, which unfortunately it does not get in this release.

The picture is reasonably sharp, but the colors are less brilliant than in previous releases. The film has no doubt aged, but the recent DVD release looks more brilliant than the blu-ray. The blu-ray simply doesn't pop like the best HD transfers do. The blacks are grainy and the contrast is mostly dull. A real disappointment.

As for the sound, there are no options but a flat DTS-HD rendering. At first I thought the film had been mastered in monaural--everything seemed to be coming from my center speaker. In fact, it is surround, but I had to roll the center channel way down to hear any separation, and the rears have to be cranked way up to get any appreciable surround effect. Upon its first release, The Mission had a reference quality sound design, and the scene at the beginning when an unfortunate missionary is crucified by the natives and floated over the waterfall sounded stunning and enveloping in both VHS and DVD, giving my subwoofer some work to do. What happened to the blu-ray? It sounds lifeless. If nothing else, Morricone's score deserves much better. Blu-ray viewers have come to expect the best.

I will always give the original film five stars, but not this disappointing blu-ray. Usually Warner Brothers does much better than this. The Mission received a stunning DVD release some years ago in a deluxe package, but the blu-ray package looks like an afterthought. The only real extra is the same documentary that was included in the DVD. It looked bad on DVD and looks even worse on blu-ray. The Mission was never a blockbuster hit, but has a faithful, serious following and deserves better. One day it will undoubtedly be remastered--it certainly should be--and I'll have to buy it again. Maybe that was the point of this release.