After seeing Depeche Mode in Cleveland in 1998, I felt fairly certain that it was the last time the infamous synth-poppers would ever tour.  It was, then, with great surprise that I saw that they would go on a full tour for their latest CD, Exciter.  I attended two shows, found them to be excellent, and anxiously awaited the release of the Official Tour DVD...and DM do not disappoint.
The first item that jumps out of you when watching the concert is the energy and charisma shown by the entire band on stage.  In the past, DM was known essentially as Dave Gahan and the 3 Cardboard Cutouts.  The shows generally involved Gahan prancing around the stage like a madman, whilst Martin Gore, Andy Fletcher and the since-departed Alan Wilder stayed firmly planted behind their synths.  Rarely was there interaction between the band members during a performance.  Not so with ONIP.  Dave is his usual self, running around the stage, jumping on amp stacks and screaming at the crowd.  Martin, however, is more animated than ever, as he joins Dave down front on guitar for most of the show.  But unlike the Martin of old, he now appears to be quite comfortable being viewed as Depeche Mode "guitarist", as he looks more relaxed and energetic onstage than ever before, plucking out notes and headbanging with Dave throughout a good part of the show.  The new vibe is particularly evident during the performance of "When the body Speaks", when Dave calls Martin over and they essentially perform the song as a duet (with Dave even commenting on Martin's "strut".)
The other most noticeable thing about the performance is how much the addition of Christian Eigner on drums improves the live sound.  Drum machines on a studio album are one thing, but live it is something completely different, and Eigner, a very talented and technically proficient percussionist, adds an added depth and dimension to the songs that have been missing on past tours.  Marked improvements, in particular, were made on many of the Exciter songs, as his pounding beats and inventive drumming breathed new life into songs that suffered from poor production on the studio recording.
Throughout the performance, musically, the band is in top form and sound remarkably fresh considering what they have been through during the past decade.  Still, a few criticisms should be pointed out.
For one, Dave's singing is very hit-and-miss.  Some songs sound very strong and full of energy...on others he has difficulty hitting the notes and sounds almost lazy on some of his vocals.  He's never been accused of being an outstanding live vocalist, and part of the problem I'm sure is that the concert was shot late in the tour, when the band had already performed many shows.  Nevertheless, he would stand to benefit from increased vocal coaching and less screaming, which hurts his voice and detracts from some of the songs.
Secondly, I have a ocuple of issues with the tracklisting.  First, as has been mentioned on previous reviews, there is the glaring ommission of "Clean".  The band stated that the version that was recorded was not up to specifications, and thus wa sleft off.  However, noticeable mistakes are made on various songs throughout the disc, and to many people "Clean" was one of the highlights of the concert.  In its place we have a slightly re-worked version of "Condemnation"...which is one of Dav'es favorite songs, but has never been a showstopper live.  Also, the middle of the disc, particularly the track "Waiting For the Night", tends to drag a bit.  That song in particular was played exactly as it is on the album, which make sit a bit boring and predictable live.
Overall, save for some minor problems, it is an excellent show.  The playing form the band is crisp and clear, and Depeche show an energy not seen by them on stage since the early 80s.  Whether you are a longtime fan or only a casual one, if you're looking for a live performance to get you "caught up" with the band and see what they are doing now, this is an excellent selection.