This film should have been released at the end of May this year, it was delayed.

Major Dundee has often been referred to as a flawed epic, I wish to disagree. My terms of reference for the rest of this review come from seeing the film on BBC 2 in the 80's, when a certain Alex Cox would do an introduction to a 'great film' that had been undercooked by critics, and therefore, overlooked by the cinema ticket buying audience. Alex Cox assured the viewers this was the best full version availble at the time (late 80's).

The film is probably the last great 'Horse Soldiers against Injuns' made, it utilises all the tropes and motifs used by John Ford, without the sentiment. Moreover, as a product of the mid sixties, it focused on on a fighting force facing overwhelming forces and surviving: just. This brings me to why the film may be thought flawed: it was made in the sixties. Studio bosses were running scared with the the increased sophistication of TV output and their lack of control over actors and directors. The Studio system died horribly in the sixties.

The film was gutted and fitted to the flawed thinking of the Studio. Though Peckinpah is seen as an auteur, and 'Guns in the Afernoon' aka 'Ride the High Country', is probably where his reputation lies (frankly, apart from the three films already mentioned, the others are not worth a mention, least a thought), Major Dundee and The Wild Bunch carries the baggage.

To the film. The cast may not be 'the pick of the crop': Senta Berger was buxom; Richard Harris was pretty; Jim Hutton, was swimming out of his depth, even with a beard; James Coburn, though armless, was still a damned good stalwart. However, Charlton Heston carried Dundee, a definitely flawed hero, and a unpleasant character, his portrayal will stand with the rest of his credits (as a film actor, he will surely receive the pundits that he deserves), because we can say: 'There but for the grace of God go I', even if we do not sympathize with his character.

The film follows a strict, well used, formula: an atrocity has been committed; a force has to be gathered to mete out justice, 'get revenge'; a dirty few dozen are eventually collected; seeking the enemy and failing; finally destroying the enemy; a slightly unexpected bloody, though heroic, climax. It is how this formula is used and played with that adds a certain pleasure when watching the film.

The cherries on top is that most of what we see in The Wild Bunch is already displayed in this film: The Mule Skinners are the fathers of the Posse; the leaving of the Mexican village is far more poignant in this film; and all men (according to Peckinpah, get emotionally, if not physically hurt, when caught with a whore). Finally, it is an anti-war, but Peckinpah wanted to get a reaction. A great film but Peckinpah got the wrong reaction even before the film hit the screen.