Ugh.  Where to begin?  I generally enjoy independent films and even when I don't, I can usually appreciate the artist's vision and recognize the qualities.  I'm a liberal, non-religious, open-minded world citizen who believes in artistic freedom.  But this movie is just plain wrong.

One reviewer rightfully said "The dialogue is so contrived, the characters so self-consciously quirky that Me and You often feels like a parody of an indie movie."(Josh Bell, LAS VEGAS WEEKLY).

This is right down to the annoying little "indie" piano song.  It's just annoying how "indie" it is.  But that's not why I dislike it so much.

This movie is just wrong on many levels.  The characters are so far from being remotely believable that I just couldn't bring myself to care about any one of them.  The children spoke like adults, and the adults spoke as if they had ingested psilocybin mushooms after a two week gin bender.

But, by far the worst part of this film centers around what Ms. July directed the child-actors to do.  As stated, I'm about as liberal as they come, but to force children to engage in some of the dialog that transpired in this film borderlines, in my opinion, on abuse.  It's just plain gross, and it actually hurt me to watch these kids play it out.  I felt sorry for them and felt that as adults, we'd let them down by making them engage in such disgusting acts and dialog.  While this is a fictional movie, there are real people-- children-- who must play these parts.  To require them to go through the motions of what was in the plot was just plain wrong, and frankly, the director should be ashamed of herself.

None of it was necessary to the non-existent plot.  If she was going for disturbing, she succeeded, but at what cost?  I felt the children acting in this film were being exploited and what's worse, they were being exploited for what was ultimately a very bad film.

I encourage everyone to avoid this film at all costs.  If you do see it, please understand that you are supporting the worst in human nature.