I came to this film late, but considering that at least two Mormon politicians are potentially in the running for the 2012 presidential election, it became synchronistically relevant.  As a person who likes to parse things out in a Libraesque fashion, trying to give both sides their due fair share, I was dismayed at the emotional reaction it elicited from me.  By the time I got to the scene with Hannity and the bullying of the "liberals" in the audience of mostly Morman conservatives, I was so disturbed that I had to bail out of the movie.  It is truly a shame that Mormans in general were represented in that way, and many must have been mortified and embarrassed by the behavior of their brethren.  I have not ever seen Hannity operate before, not being a TV watcher, and was looking forward to trying to get a more reasoned perspective about this guy, but all I can say is "Wow" . . . it's even worse than I thought.

I was hoping to get a better view of a religion that most non-Mormans don't understand.  Instead, what I saw was something that eerily mimicked what was done to Jesus, the symbol most revered by any Christian-based religion.  As a non-denominational believer in "Something" out there greater than us, one can only admire the story of a master like that, and so many Christian-based religions nowadays forget that homily "What Would Jesus Do" . . . or say . . . or teach?  He certainly would not have taught the merciless flaying of someone trying to challenge the powers that be.

Nor would the principles of democracy teach that.  I give this film 5 stars for showing a gritty rendition of the insanity that can occur when our main source of information becomes the lowest common denominator, i.e. plastic talk show hosts who earn enormous fees by parroting caricatures of belief systems for self-serving purposes, often admitting behind the scenes that they know better.  Heavy karma there . . .

Documentaries like this are inflammatory, and that's usually not the best way to get one's information.  But sometimes we all need a wake-up call, and this continues to be a major one.  As another reviewer said:  this film will be even bigger in the future.