The complaint that this is Shawshank Redemption, Part II, is valid. In many ways, this movie is the same. Tall, innocent gentle man who retains his sense of dignity and hope. Evil, prison guard. Long time inmate who  makes the best of his prison stay. Even a revelation that shows beyond a  shadow of a doubt that the some other prisoner, not the accused prisoner,  is guilty, but no one cares enough to do anything about it. It even  contains at least one character that was in "Shawshank", but  consider the source material and the team, Stephen King and Frank Darabont.  Stephen King always has these mythical treatises on good versus evil. And  Mr. Darabont knows how to yank on your heart and, in the midst of a bleak  situation, pull out the humanity and humor. Both men are truly good  storytellers; even though you know the destination, you end up just  enjoying the ride.
This is ensemble acting at its best. Although Tom  Hanks, again, plays his part convincingly and Michael Clarke Duncan fills  the screen figuratively whenever his limited lines appear, you must give a  nod to the other actors: Brutal, Dell, "Wild Bill", etc. Unlike  the horrific but brilliant prison drama "Oz", you wish you had  prison wardens like Hanks and Morse. You find yourself agreeing with Dell  as he said of them,"You guys are good guys. I wish I had met you  somewhere else". Percy was just the typical bully that only differed  from "Wild Bill" in that he wore a badge and was on the other  side of the bars.
My complaints: belts retained and worn by death row  prisoners, someone not noticing sooner the botched execution, a big black  man in 1935 accused of murdering and raping children allowed to touch white  people in intimate ways (I don't care how much of a healer he was!), as my  husband pointed out, Coffey's being used by Edgecome to free a white woman  of her misery but Edgecome not using enough of his influence to free Coffey  of his, and Coffey conveniently going along with the plan at the very  end.
This movie wins no editing points for its length, but as another  reviewer said, how could it have been shortened and still been this good.  My praise for it is that, in spite of the language, the story, acting, and  characters are good enough to recommend to a parent or a mature high school  class.  So many R rated movies are too profane, graphic and violent. They  lack good storytelling in between those shocking moments and don't give you  much time to recover with some quiet moments before they're in your face  again.
Hanks has come a long way since playing a woman in "Bosom  Buddies" and I hope for Michael Duncan Clarke that this is a  breakthrough role. I hope he continues to get parts where, like he said in  an interview, where he actually gets a name and not just "big black  guy". He joins a long line of black male actors who got shafted at the  Oscars: Denzel Washington, Lawrence Fishburne and Samuel L. Jackson whose  performances equalled or surpassed their white colleagues'.