This is the way life doesn't work.  This movie is "Pretty Woman" in reverse.  Charming, big, cute (admittidly in the real world, these are far more marketable qualaties than being traditionally handsome) guy gets promoted several rungs in society by random events and big hearts.

One has to get past this strange plot in order to enjoy this movie.

The girl is portrayed as wanting nothing to do with the guy until she finds out she's pregnant.  Then, without explaining why adoption or abortion are not possiblities, we see her merrily tyring to fall in love with the shlub.

If the pregnancy is forcing this, then we have to overcome the natual expectation that she will be sad about this.  I mean, if she is being forced by circumstance, to her thinking, to give her life to someone she wouldn't even want a second date with, the scriptwriter failed to provide in a movie that runs over two hours, why the hell she's such a great sport about it.

If the pregancy is not forcing her actions then the script just doesn't work.  Why she would so ardently pursue a relationship with an out of work stoner with friends who would embarrass a highschooler is just never explained outside of the pregnancy.

The scriptwriter's dillema is clear.  If she likes him at all the morning after, there is no comedy.  The way it is, we have to guess that she is of the most strong anti-abortion/anti-adoption minds and the best damn sport in the world about having fate thrust upon her some guy she would not otherwise choose.

For me, the girl getting rescued, as in "Pretty Woman" is less bothersome than a peasant guy getting scouped up by Princess Charming.  I mean, both are completely fanciful--I just don't see the romance in the lazy fat guy getting thrown onto the back of the Princess' horse and taken into the sunset.  Maybe that is sexist--but a guy dreaming of being rescued by a relatively rich, successful, self-made girl while he's getting high everyday all day and tooling around the internet a half-hour a day as his excuse for working...?  That's a funny image for slapstick but this movie takes itself very seriously.

If you can forget about all this or not be bugged by it---it's a wonderful movie.  But this is the main plot--the fulcurm around which all the other story elements rotate.  How nearly every darn critic in the world seems to have no problem here is just really hard to understand.  But this is the real problem people like me have with this picture.  But if this plot doesn't bother you--and, nearly every critic in the nation thinks you won't and shouldn't--then you have something to look forward to in this picture.