13 November 2004. Weight: more than Renee Zellweger on a fat day. Calories: enough to feed a small third-world nation. Alcohol units: how many units are there in a bottle of wine anyway?

Have just watched Bridget Jones's Diary for umpteenth time and wondered, "Does anyone really need yet another Bridget Jones review?" Well - yes.

Warning: if you are offended by excessive drinking, smoking, profanity, workplace flirting, sexual innuendo, and gratuitous shots of Hugh Grant in wet shirt, you probably will not like this movie.

On the other hand, if you ever have loved wrong man (person), wondered if you would die old and alone (and eventually be eaten by dogs), or walked across London Bridge after night of shagging Hugh Grant look-alike (perhaps not), then you will find this movie v.v. amusing and quite entertaining.

The plot is well known - 30-something singleton Bridget Jones (Renee Zellweger) hooks up with caddish boss Daniel Cleaver (Hugh Grant), whilst finding self increasingly attracted to aloof human rights barrister Mark Darcy (Colin Firth). Mark Darcy is eerily similar in personality and appearance to that other famous Mr. Darcy of Pride and Prejudice. Not a coincidence, as Helen Fielding's novel was based on Pride and Prejudice, and of course both Mr. Darcys are broodily and gorgeously portrayed on-screen by Colin Firth.

Bridget is rather unique among romantic comedy heroines, as she is not thin, has questionable taste in clothing, and has hair which is almost always having a bad day. She is clumsy, often says the wrong thing, and doesn't much like her job. (And she can't cook.) Most women can see a bit of themselves in Bridget, even as they congratulate themselves for having much better hair and clothes.

But Bridget's flaws are not only hilariously funny, they are lovable. We laugh with her, and wouldn't really want her to lose those 20 pounds, or get a better hairstylist, or curb her verbal diarhhea. We love her, just as she is.

This movie is all about Bridget, but there wouldn't be a story without the men in her life. And who wouldn't want to have Colin Firth and Hugh Grant fighting over her? (Colin Firth - wet white shirt in Pride and Prejudice; Hugh Grant - wet white shirt in Bridget Jones's Diary; it's a very tough one to call!) Grant is funny and sexy and v.v. bad as sleazy (yet charming) Daniel Cleaver. Firth is haughty and sexy and v.v. good as repressed (yet smoldering) Mark Darcy (and he makes a mean omelet).

Bridget Jones's Diary is one of the few movies based on a book which not only does justice to the book, but adds to one's enjoyment of it. Zellweger, Firth, and Grant add personality and faces to the characters of Bridget, Mark Darcy, and Daniel Cleaver. Forever more, Renee Zellweger will be the face of Bridget Jones. And hurrah for that. (More wine, anyone? Chocolate? Wet white shirt? Mmmm...)