Always a pleasure to be the first reviewer. The Secret Life of Words is a nice and moving film on the process of healing and the necessity of not forgetting the horrible experiences people have gone through in wars in the recent years.

Hannah (Sarah Polley) is a deaf girl that works in a factory day in and day out, never missing a day, until her chief tells her that the sindacate wants her to take a month of. She leaves for a town on the see where she meets a guy who is looking for a nurse that has to go on an oil rig where there is a wounded man (Tim Robbins). She offers her help as though she was a qualified nurse. Her patient has been burned in an accident where another died. The oil rig is a home for various lonely men, that are described with great compassion: an old and lonely director, a fantasy filled cook, an oceanographer that hopes that the closure of the rig could help correct the ecological problems of the Northern See, two repressed gay workers and a goose.

Hannah even affected by her deafness seems to be able to communicate with all, but especially with her patient with whom she develops a special kind of humour and empathy. Joseph eventually tells her his problem that he has caused the suicide of his friend, who's wife he had fallen in love with. This problem seems enormous to him until Hannah tells him about hers. She is a refugee from Jugoslavia, she has been tortured and raped, she studied as a nurse but now is frozen in a make belief life trying to forget or to remember her past. Joseph is fulminated by her story and seems finally at loss for words. The two part when Joseph is finally evacuated from the plant and pass a period separated. Joseph tries to track Hannah's past and her story, but decides against it after having spoken to a therapist that cured her (Julie Christie). He goes looking for her and when he finds her he tells her he wants to live with her. Hannah accepts and the movie closes with a scene of their family life after a few years.

The story is romantic and the end is happy, so the movie leaves a feeling of well being. However, it is deeply sad and stimulates reflection of the sounds of silence. If someone doesn't speak it doesn't mean he has nothing to say. Silence as a balm for suffering. Isolation as a cure and the difficulty of opening up again. Many themes are wound together.

The atmosphere closely remembers Lars Von Tiers first movies, from which I believe the Author was inspired and I couldn't help thinking of the English Patient as well. But cinema is cross-reference. The music is nice and the actors are very well chosen and convincing. Some naïve mistakes are made in the story (like keeping a wounded man on an oil rig) but in the whole the film has an emotional impact.