Almost Famous is a near note-perfect recreation of the rock music millieu before it had exhausted itself in excess in the middle to later 70's. Director Cameron Crowe weaves heavy doses of his personal experiences into a fictional tale of how a hard working band, Stillwater, rises to stardom aided by all sorts of willing dreamers.

The interactions between the band members and all of the people whose lives they touch are simply mezmerizing. Especially interesting is the examination of the range of participation that people have with music. Crowe differentiates in many shades between the casual and the romantic aspects of music: On the casual side we see music as a business -- its creators and fans as product to be sold or reported on, to be seen with or to have casual relationships with; On the romantic side we see music as a revelation unto itself -- it generates love to be shared between people.

The characters and actors (great casting!) are all believable and, in the end, inspiring. The sex and drugs aspects are sanitized a bit, but then this is a love story with a relatively happy ending, not a tale of failed music.

Some of the lighter fun includes all sorts of visual and spoken references to many of the premier performers of the early seventies: Bowie, Sabbath, The Who, Led Zep, Elton John, Allman Brothers, Joni Mitchell, Lou Reed and a blur of others...

If you like the theatrical version and are interested in the autobiographical aspects in more detail, I highly recommend the director's cut. The mother-son relationship that seems somewhat implausable in the film was apparently right on the money, and Cameron Crowe did in fact skip 3 grades (one skip instigated by a simple mistake!) and graduated high school at the age of 15. The near airplane crash, the Lester Bangs relationship, the sister who leaves Cameron with her music collection and her wisdom and then meets him sitting alone in an airport -- all true!

Another interesting note from the director's cut is that Cameron is married to Nancy Wilson of Heart and they co-wrote the fictional Stillwater band's songs and she wrote other parts of the soundtrack as well. Cameron also comments on several reactions to Almost Famous from bands or individuals that were included on the excellent soundtrack of the movie.

Finally, In addition to the autobiographical richness, the director's cut adds insightful personal and relational depth to virutually every major character in the movie.

Unless you really dislike the aforementioned musical sources, I recommend you take a look at this movie as a cultural historical document, if nothing else. If you enjoy music from that period of Rock or were growing up during that time, Almost Famous is not to be missed.