Everyone else here sums up the plot, so I'll try to sum up the appeals...

It's as sophisticated as you could want it to be, but also funny and with plenty of celebrity cameos for casual fun.  Granted, though, it IS especially SMART humor, but with its share of laugh-out-loud moments, if you're looking for those.  (John Cusack and Burt Reynolds each deliver among the most hilarious cameos, and Whoopi Goldberg has the most hilarious "real" part.)

It'll play well to watch once, or live up to endless repeated viewings, if you like to take in a movie's layers.  It can be a great thriller at face value, or self-conscious and aware to a staggering depth of complexity.

It's easy on the eyes and frequently sexy, and yet the filmwork and craftsmanship is virtually flawless.  The whole production (and soundtrack) is seamless perfection, living up to both Hollywood's "plastic" standards but also the most critical devote' of film.

All the performances are slickly believable, and Tim Robbins' in particular is downright sublime.  Peter Gallagher is also an underrated talent here - the power struggle between their characters and how it plays out is among the most brilliant dimensions of the picture.

As a mystery and murder drama, it'll keep you guessing but satisfy you in the end.  Despite Altman's neat trick of never explicitly solving the mystery for you, but giving you the clues to figure it out for yourself.  (By the end of the picture, the mystery itself has become secondary to the solution, so he can leave it be for YOU to solve.)

But mostly, this picture pulls off the most rare of film accomplishments, a Hollywood picture through-and-through, with all the niceties we expect from mainstream films (sex, violence, suspense, humor, love, etc.), and yet an undeniable and profound work of art.

Film and series about Hollywood become ever more the rage, but this historic picture really set the bar.  The Player will be a wild ride for anyone keen on a good movie for its own sake, but absolutely irreplacable for anyone intrigued with Hollywood and its own market-driven hypocrisy.

So it's a rock-solid movie for an average moviegoer, but as artful, dark, and cynical as a more demanding viewer could hope for.