With this film, director Miranda July offers us the definitive movie of the
early 21st century. Modernism witnessed the "Death of God", but the carcass
of judaeo-christianity lingered on as did the belief in a certain monolithic
set of values. In our present post-modern epoch, that is no longer the case.
This film depicts burgeoning incommuncability,the collapse of
values, and myth coincidental to the demise of that mono-culture.

As a result, we can feel the pain and desperation of the characters.
The dearth of human contact renders the ego
tenuous and the self porous. July makes films of herself in which she congratulates herself,
loves herself, kisses herself. The house-wife wears a shirt inscribed with
affirmations to remind her of her worth. Individuals resort to these measures
because there appears to be nonone who can (or will)honestly communicate the message and we
recognize that the prolix of media- camcords, ipods, computers- means that
we see more people and events but the sheer quanity overwhelms us and we end
by not REALLy seeing, hearing or engaging with any of them.

Important events come and go. In other times they might have been marked
by a some rite of passage or at least a heightened sense of drama. The
shoe-salesman seperates from his wife who treats the event with little
gravity. He, on the contrary, feels the need to commemorate the event
and ends up setting his hand on fire as a type of ritual. It's very
funny but this lack of gravity and the contrary desire to ressurect
ritual is nothing new. One need only think of Nietzche's descriptions
of Wagner's egregious festival at Bayreuth, where he sought to raise
art to metaphysical truth in order to restore meaninig.

Characters slam into each other like mindless atoms but fail to fuse.
False acts of intimacy prove to be absurd and empty. Cyber sex results
in the meeting of a little boy and a woman. The teenage girls attempt
to seduce the older man. He allow himself to bast in the fantasy
by posting provocative signs on his window but refuses to confront
the girls or go through with the act of pedophilia. Words in the printed
media become a means to isolate ourselves from real communication.

All of this might make us nostalgic for a time when communication, culture
and values were clearer, stable, black and white. However, we forget the
oppression of that monolithic narrative. Minorities, women, gays had
tow the line. Even white middle-class males were doomed to boring cocktail-parties
and church socials. Now we have broken with that design and cast off that
pret-a-porter persona. The soul can finally make its appearance on the scene. But it
is awkward, just like the characters in this film and it is often wont to
retreat to tradition. Instead, we should make greater efforts to speak deeply
with one another. We are just beginners and needn't be discouraged by
our failures.

At the end of the movie, the father and his children who had refused to speak with him finally get together by singing a hymn. Will humanity
finally be able to re-unite also? Will the hymn they sing include the
voices of humanity as various as the population of the earth or, as is now happening in so many places, will we
force ourselves into a procrustean bed where we shall sing the monotonouse old-time
religion of our ancestors? That is the question this movie poses.