I wholeheartedly agree with the reviewer that compared this movie to an episode of the original Twilight Zone (lamentably on every level other than length). However I take great exception to an earlier comparison to The Sixth Sense and Memento, both of which are among my favourite movies of all time.  I can only assume that reviewer disliked all three.  Stay is a classic "Sixth Sense wannabe" which falls disastrously short of the phenomenon status of the latter.  I think most reviewers are just scared to admit that the movie made no sense, in case they are labelled philistines by the artsy-fartsy types to whom this film surely exclusively appeals, or for fear that the movie actually made sense to someone of a superior intellect.  The Sixth Sense and Memento ended with a startling revelation that offered a dramatic explanation of the events in the rest of the movie, and yet one that was consistent with those events.  There is nothing remotely interesting, shocking or entertaining in the ending of this movie.  Stay was no different to a movie that ends with someone waking up and realising it was all a dream (an explanation of sorts, but not one that adds anything to the movie or to your life), in fact probably worse as it left certain over-played plot elements yet hopelessly unresolved (the persistent references to Lela's own suicide, the inter-changability of Sam/Henry, Sam's interactions with the parallel characters of Henry's parents - were these all nothing but pointless misdirection??).  To me visuals are primarily employed to carry a story and are not merely to be enjoyed on their own merit.  If I wanted visuals in the absence of plot, I would have gone to a museum.  The point of the first hour and a half of this movie is just to confuse the hell out of you and inspire hope that the ending will offer some kind of meaningful explanation.  The former achieved admirably and latter sadly not in the least.  It did provoke emotion in me - outright rage that I had just wasted an hour and three quarters of my precious leisure time on such utter nonsense.  Please for the love of God, if you are reading this with a mind to your own review, be honest - don't submit to the temptation to delude yourself that you enjoyed this film on some level just because it was "stylish" and included some big-name actors.  A good rating on a movie like this is a license for anyone with Hollywood ambition to write another screenplay full of surreal events that make no sense as long as it ends with an "explanation" that one or more of the characters was really just having a brain malfunction (SUUUURPRIIIIIISE!!).