When I was a child I was fascinated by this movie as still I am now. I won't give my opinion about the movie because it would be to repeat what has already been written by nearly everyone.
But I always kept in my memory another movie in which Walt Disney explains in a very charming and interesting way the process of making Lady and the Tramp (the storyboards, discussions with the team, technical methods, etc. and the fascinating process of the drawers creating this delightful work). It was shown on tv and I can say that, in a way, without exaggerating, the watching of these people, their style, their personalities has influenced me for the rest of my life.

When I saw that the special edition of Lady and the Tramp included many extras I didn't hesitate to buy it.

I have it now. The delivery by Amazon has been perfect, right on schedule, as nearly always. Amazon is a serious company.

But I want to express some critical opinions about this issue:
As I went directly to the extras to meet my beloved Walt Disney and sat down to listen to him, I was faced with a repulsive range of strange and ugly people who have nothing to do with the ones who made the original movie. Not only by their disgusting aspects, but also by the things they say, the way they expose their comments, the mentality, minds and the sense of aesthetics and responsibility that you can automatically feel at first watch.

These ill-minded people may own the rights to make business with what they legally own. But these people don't have dignity. They mix up the concepts of owning something with being something. They should be reminded that they are not charming, that they are not interesting, they are not important and that they are unable to do a thing like the one they bought the rights to make business with.
It is an insult to the culture and to the same Walt Disney that they appear on screen behaving like the legitimate successors of Disney (I mean successors of his genius, as they pretend). It is obvious that Disney wouldn't have had such people on his team.
Without any trace of shame they talk about the movie in a way as if they had done it, taking, among other examples, possession of abandoned storyboards and dubbing them with their voices. Don't they realise that the masterpiece has already been done? That the parts that Disney did not include were the result of a meticulous process of selection?
They mix the comments of Disney with theirs creating an unpresentable contrast and a feeling of frustration when seeing Walt Disney's expositions always interrupted.
But they need to be the protagonists of it. Their inferiority complex resulting of their lack of culture mixed up with the arrogance of the one that is economically powerful and their little love for the country allow them to show themselves runing into the prestige of other people desecrating what is a reference to the prominence and culture, not only of America but also of the Western world.

I could extend my opinion longer but I leave it here, hoping that I am understood.

I really think that it is just a small example of how things are changing, of how the elites have changed. It is our responsibility to be aware of it and work to make possible a world in which new Walt Disneys could crop out again. If we let these people take over the world in all fields, then we can say: poor Disney, poor children, poor America and poor West.

The original movie, anyway, remains incomparable.
Disney made it for us, not they. He could, they would never be able to.

---

It has to be said that this review was posted in 2006. I was surprised when seeing the large amounth of people that found it interesting (helpful). Suddenly, the review diappeared. After complaining it appeared again.

Whas it a casual incident or not?

Maybe, but the more I know the people I am pointing in this review (although I don't mention their name or religion), the more I am inclined to think that it was due to a meticulous wordwide process of censorship that is being carried on eveywhere, with open evidence and with the most strict silence and lack of criticism on any media (which they control).