Just 4 the record, I'm a Dutchie, so my English ain't gonna B perfect.
Anyway, this is absolutely the best movie ever made. Ya always  hear people (specialy the one that didn't like the movie)say that this  movie was extremely violent. I don't get it. Why? In comparison 2 other  gansterflix violence doesn't play that bigga roll. Let's take a look at the  bodycount. There's Flock of Seagulls (the guy lying on the couch), his  buddy Brett and the guy with the magnum waiting in the bathroom. And  ofcourse Marvin. In "The Gold Watch" Maynard dies and Zed get's  his "best friend" blown of. He probably dies, but ya don't get 2  see it. That's it. That's six guys! Only six. 
Another complaint is the  drug abuse and the sex. Let's start with the sex. Marcellus gets raped and  Fabian asked Butch 2 give her "oral pleasure". Not one breats was  2 be seen, not even a wet T-shirt with a hard nipple. Come on, sex in pulp  fiction?  If anyboy seen it, please tell me cuase i like sex. Then there's  the drugs abuse. Mia almost dies of an O.D. That's it, I rest my  case.
But what makes this movie the best ever. It's hard 2 tell, cause  there are many reasons. One of the best reasons is ofcourse the cast, with  Travolta, Jackson, Willis, Thurman, Rhames, Keitel, Roth, Tarantino himself  and Walken amongst others. I can't think of any other movie with a cast  such as this one.  The acting is absolutely great. It should have won at  least one Academie Award (Sam Jackson as best supporting actor), but it  didn't. Then there is the great chemistry between Travolta and Jackson in  the first and last part. The terrific dialog (the "you know what they  call a Quarter Pounder with Cheese in Paris" is now a classic with  even the Cartoon Network copying it!)And ofcourse the story. A lotta people  don't get the story. But there's nothing 2 get. Some people say there's no  plot, but why does there always have 2 be a plot? This film stands out  because it don't follow a standard Hollywoord recipe!  And then there's the  soundtrack, which fits perfectly with the movie. So 4 everybody who hasn't  seen this movie jet, hurry up and rent it!