This review isn't so much about the movie, as I consider it a sci-fi classic and great popcorn fare that's fun to watch pretty much any time I need a dose of campy action and a Sharon Stone fix. Instead, I'm reviewing the DVD, as it wasn't at all what I was expecting and I want others to know what they're getting into if they buy this.

The DVD is marketed as a super hi-fidelity transfer that reproduces the detail of the original film master as closely as possible. How do they do this? They use the entire contents of the DVD disc to hold the movie, with no bonus features or anything else on the disc. It definitely pays off -- the picture on my 50" Panasonic plasma was super sharp, though obviously not 720p or 1080i HD quality. No visible pores on Ah-nuld's face or anything like that. But it's also better than most DVDs I've seen of older movie titles, and the 5.1 surround soundtrack was excellent as well. So in terms of movie quality, you definitely get your money's worth.

Now, it's not like this hasn't been done before. Many DVD releases today devote one disc to the entire movie so the movie quality is as high as possible. Longer movies will even be split across two discs to maintain picture and sound quality (think of the LOTR deluxe edition releases, some of the best DVDs I've ever seen). Then they put the extras on a second disc so that you have your two-disc "special edition" / "collector's edition" / "platinum edition" / whatever package. Examples that come to mind include most newer releases, including LOTR, Twilight, Iron Man, and more.

But this DVD is ONLY the movie -- there IS NO second disc with any bonus features at all. So you pay the same price as any other "special edition" DVD, but all you get is the movie. To me, this is a disappointment. The term "special edition" has come to mean that you get a higher quality copy of the movie along with tons of bonus materials -- interviews with cast members, making-of featurettes, alternate endings, etc. I've never seen a movie marketed as a "special edition" where you only get the movie (albeit in a VERY high quality transfer) and nothing else.

If you're not into the bonus features thing, then this may not matter to you and you'll be very happy. But if you're like me and enjoy watching those bonus materials, even if it's only once or twice, paying the same money for a 2-disc set and getting only one disc feels like this was some kind of bait and switch.