Art Carney won the 1974 Best Actor Oscar for his portrayal of Harry Combes, a 72-year-old retired teacher who has lived his whole life in the Big Apple.  He has neighbors, friends, family, good health, and a companion that he cherishes most in the world--his cat, Tonto.  All things considered, he's living a pretty good life.  But things are about to come tumbling down.  Specifically, it's Harry's apartment that's coming down, as the city has plans to tear down his apartment building to make way for a parking lot.  Literally carried out in his recliner kicking and shouting, Harry comes to live with the oldest of his three adult children and his family.  But it's clear that the arrangement is not working out--his son's family appears to be having problems and Harry senses that he's a burden on them.  So he then takes off to the Windy City to try living with his independent daughter (Ellen Burstyn, who, incidentally, won the year's Best Actress Oscar for "Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore").  But that doesn't work out, either, as Harry and Shirley (the daughter in question) don't see eye to eye on anything.  So he takes off once again (with his grandson and Ginger, a teenage hitch hiker Harry picks up, along for the ride) and heads for the west coast where his youngest one (Larry Hagman, four years after "I Dream of Jeannie" and four years before "Dallas") lives.  By the time he gets to California, he realizes that he likes where he is and doesn't wish to go back home.

At first glance, "Harry and Tonto" is simply a movie about a man who travels the country with his pet cat.  That's certainly true--Harry and Tonto go everywhere together, but it's about more than that.  The movie is about people, specifically the ones Harry meets on his cross-country journey.  There's the aforementioned Ginger, a 16-year-old hitch hiker who's just run away from home; Jacob, Harry's cynical Polish friend (who dies just before Harry leaves New York); Leroy, Harry's janitor friend who's having a hard time finding a job and still lives with his mother; the Bible-quoting hitch hiker who Harry picks up when he first meets Ginger; Jessie, Harry's ex-girlfriend (they dance together during a very touching scene); the vitamin salesperson whose health remedies have questionable cures; Stephanie, a prostitute who picks up Harry and shows him that he isn't too old to have sex; the elderly Native American shaman who cures Harry of his bursitis using an ancient chant (Harry meets him in jail after he's arrested for urinating in public); and a friendly woman with a large cat family who offers Harry use of her spare room after he arrives in L.A., plus all the other people in between.  All together, they make Harry's journey--and life--interesting.  This is exactly the kind of movie director Paul Mazursky made: interesting, because that's what life is when you meet many kinds of people.  Without that, what would life be?