Brother bear was a movie based in North America about a Native American tribe of people and events that occur between three brothers.  A younger brother in the tribe is eager to prove himself as a mature and worthy man.  The brother is brought into manhood by a ceremony and he is given an animal medallion to represent his purpose but given a bear was not what he was looking for.  His brother explains that he must believe in what the spirits have chosen for his path no matter how much he disagrees.  The movie then takes a turn when the little brother veers off to prove his bravery which results in the death of his brother by a wild bear.  Hurt by the death of his brother he seeks revenge and hunts down the bear to attempt to bring peace to his heart.  He succeeds in killing the bear, but after killing the bear a colorful light surrounds him and turns him into a bear himself and the only human that can understand who he is, is an old wise woman that gave him the medallion of the bear.  The wise woman sends him on a journey to the mountain to find his brother and be transformed back into a human.  He is accompanied by a cub looking for a river of salmon and two brother moose's.  This new found journey of his life the once human now bear, is now being hunted by his other brother.  He finds himself living with bears and realizing that he killed the baby cubs' mother who was the bear that killed his brother.  He then reaches the mountain and speaks with his dead brother and realizes that he is better off as a bear to stay with the baby cub to show his manhood.
Religion for this movie was a lot about belief and spirits.  A part of their religion was that the old woman went to the mountains after a long journey; she would have a guy chosen to receive a medallion that would represent the future of what he meant to the tribe.  The tribe seemed to believe in spirits that appear in aurora "a natural light display in the sky caused by high altitude atmosphere".  They believe in punishment even through nature, by the man turning into a bear it seems that they believe in reincarnation in some fact because when he killed the bear it angered their spirits that turned him into the very thing he killed for revenge.  Another part of the religion was that when someone passes they become of the spirits that watch over them so their never really gone from the tribe.