Over the years, Hollywood has based movies on Marvel Comics. Some of these movies--in the late 80's/90's--were TV based or went direct to video. It was not until 1998 that Hollywood made a major hit with Blade (Wesley Snipes [130 million worldwide].) Blade would be important in setting up other marvel-based movies such as "X-Men", "Spider-Man", and most currently "Ghost Rider" (2007).Ghost Rider could have been hotter than these previous films. But unfortunately, the story, the characters,and even the special effects could have better.

"Ghost Rider" is the story of Johnny Blaze (Nicholas Cage), and his father (Brett Cullen); who are father and son cyclists for a carnival in Texas. His father is unhappy with him because he is too much of a hotshot but Johnny disagrees. He is in love with his girlfriend Roxanne (Eva Mendes), but he learns that Roxanne is going away and he will do everything and anything to keep her at his side--even if it means leaving his career. That evening, Johnny learns from a letter that his father is dying from Cancer.

Later that evening, as Johnny is working on his motorcycle, Mephistopheles ([the devil] Peter Fonda) approaches him and he tells the young cyclist that he will cure his dying father. At what cost? Johnny sells his soul to the devil--and after another tragedy-- leaves Roxanne.

Years go by and Johnny soon meets up with his former lover--now a reporter--as well as Mephistopheles. This time he needs Johnny to become a Ghost Rider (supernatural fiery demon [Bounty hunter]) to obtain a powerful contract from a former rider before his son Blackheart (Wes Bentley) and his demonic henchmen gain possession of it. If Johnny completes this mission, Mephistopheles will return his soul to him. Will Blaze accept his offer?

Unlike other previous Marvel films--Spider-man and X-men series--that gave us a strong storyline, character development, very good CGI special effects, this movie belongs in the category of Marvel's "B" adaptations of lesser known movies as Daredevil (2003), and Elektra (2005).

First off, if this is the first movie in the franchise, then we need to know more about our character Johnny Blaze. Our writer (Mark Steven Johnson) never explains where Johnny lives, what kind of relationship he has with his father, and most importantly, how did he and his father become stunt cyclists. Instead, we get Sam Elliot in the beginning of the movie giving us a cheesy narration of a former Rider's origin. Therefore, the narration being brief is much like the rest of the film.

The story and the characters leave us confused. Let's take Blackheart and his henchmen for example; at first, he is Mephistopheles creation, then later (Elliot) tells us he is a fallen Angel, and then Blackheart makes a reference that he is his son. The Henchmen, also give unclear theme. Are they Mephistopheles' creation, or Blackheart's? It is also unclear about what Ghost Rider's character is supposed to do. Is he supposed to be the Spirit of Vengeance (a vigilante) or a Bounty Hunter for Mephistopheles? Even the love relationship between Johnny and Roxanne--why bother?--feels awkward. The movie is perplexing as it is.

The special effects for the most part are very TV-like, except for some sequences where Ghost Rider himself is the focal point. The riding sequences and his transformation are technically good, but uncreative. For instance, when he is riding up a building, or going by cars on the street and making their car alarms go off, and even when he is riding under the water. When Ghost Rider is fully transformed, it reminds us of Scorpion from Mortal Combat.

Ghost Rider becomes more laughable with the villains; Blackheart is walking down the street and lights are going off one by one--probably a crew member was in charge of shutting off the light switch. What about The Henchmen and their elemental effects? The water looks like something from my bathtub, but what made us really laugh was the "Vampire henchmen." The vampire's effects looked like smoke from a burned out campfire with the left over smoke. The fighting sequences with Ghost Rider are just too easy for him and the choreography was very robotic. There is virtually no challenge from these foes; they were as simple as a first level of a video game.

An original movie needs a history and the audience must have a connection much like past movies such as "Spiderman", "The X-Men" and even "Blade", which started it all. This film gave us a very spotted and sloppy story, and very clich&eacute; villains. The critics would have had an easier time understanding this character if he was more of a loner, and if the movie specifically focused on him taking the vengeance on the criminals of society. I recommend this movie for the veteran Ghost Rider fan and the general comic book geek. If you are not a comic fan, please proceed with caution.