MOVIE ***1/2
EXTRAS BUMP OVERALL RATING UP TO ****

This 2-disc set of the Roger Spottiswoode-directed sci-fi/action flick THE 6TH DAY replaces the lame original bare-bones edition.

Arnold gets a pretty bad rap nowadays (what doesn't from the 80's??), but this is a pretty good flick with great special effects and directed nicely from Roger Spottiswoode (who also did Tomorrow Never Dies).  Canadian-born Spottiswoode broke onto the scene in 1980 with one of my all-time favorite horror flicks: Terror Train.  Since then he's directed many solid, but average flicks like Shoot To Kill, Turner & Hooch and Air America (to name a few).  He does a great job here mixing action, special effects, a loaded cast, and not just one Arnold...but TWO Arnolds!  He definitely took some cues from Paul Verhoeven with the futuristic commercials, and 3-d ads sprinkled throughout these 123 minutes.  Fans of Robocop, Starship Troopers and more specifically Total Recall should certainly not be disappointed.

He has a lot to work with as the cast is filled with very solid actors.  Michael Rapaport (True Romance), Tony Goldwyn (The Pelican Brief), Michael Rooker (Days Of Thunder) and Robert Duvall (too many flicks to pick one-a Hollywood LEGEND) all play key roles.  I don't even need to mention Arnold as his resume is well known (read: provides great action, but his delivery...), plus, there's TWO Arnolds to contend with here as he's been illegally cloned (some scenes kinda remind me of Marty McFly's in BTTF2).

The story is about the philosophical ramifications of cloning.  How it affects ourselves, the ones we love, and the ones we don't even know.  It's played from both angles; one, the tender angle to keep the ones we love (and ourselves) alive for as long as we can, and the other angle of deceit and manipulation as forced upon us by government, corporations, etc.  This makes for an interesting debate issue (albeit, not a new one), and since the movie debuted in 2000, the cloning issue has somewhat dissipated.

There's a whole second disc of extras and this is really a great-looking, great-sounding overall package.  9 featurettes, Showtime special, storyboard comparisons and animatics, RePet infomercials & TV spot, trailers, filmographies, and a nice DVD-ROM section.

In short, if you like futuristic sci-fi and action flicks and can handle two Arnolds (much better than handling two Van Dammes!) then this one's highly recommended for a rental and if you find it cheap:  definitely pick it up for purchase.