First off I want to say that the cinematography was probably this movie's greatest strongpoint.  The world in which this movie played out seemed to be the main character in the film, which was probably partly the intent as the story revolves around Jerusalem.  I will part with some people's opinion regarding Orlando Bloom.  I think Orlando did an excellent job.  I think he's an excellent actor.  His fault was not in his performance...it was in a script that left him with no real climax in his character.  Yes, he had some great moments, but when the story ends...it ends.  And it ends leaving the audience saying "WHA?  Are we done here?"

At least that's what I was saying.  I'm not a fan of having to think to hard at the end of the moving...WONDERING what happened to the character after the curtain has been pulled and lights turn on in the theater.  Those just make me frustrated.  I want a story.  Beginning to end.  Make me feel complete!  In any case, to end this ramble this was the movies greatest shortcoming.  No real conclusion.

The story is mostly interesting, though one can't help but ask why it couldn't have taken some different directions.  If one is going to take so much liberty on history at least give us some more fantasy to fill in all the gaps.  And yes Ridley.  Not all Christians were evil and not all Muslims were peace lovers.  Too typecasted.  And the wrong ones.  This unfortunately took away some of the believability in the film.

To clarify, since my comments could seem contradictory regarding believability and fantasy.  The only real downfall of this film is that it tries to parallel events that actually happened, while changing half of the facts.  I'd rather he just make up some fantasy story and only have die hard historians be able to figure out the history its based off of.  That way no one is offended, because its not a twisted story of half truths.

Despite these negatives I found myself interested in this film.  If only for three stong points.  It had good actors.  It had GREAT music.  And the cinematography was excellent.  I will be buying this movie, even if just to have as a reference disk in my home theater.  Its coming in DTS.  And that's good news indeed.