Poor Max Bialystock (Nathan Lane). A once-great Broadway producer (or so he tells us) he's now relegated to seducing rich little old ladies to finance his dismal plays. His latest ("Funny Boy," a musical version oif "Hamlet") is all too typical of his output in the last few years. His plays are so bad, a special theater marquee was devised to change from "Opening Night" to "Closing Night" with the flick of a switch. He's on a long, slow, descent into obscurity.

Enter mousy, neurotic accountant Leo Bloom (Matthew Broderick) who comes to Max's seedy Schubert Theater office to do the books. Leo's got problems of his own: he still carries the blue blanket he had when he was a baby (and goes into wild, funny hysterics when it's taken from him). He's unsatisfied with his job, and also destined to go nowhere. Until, while looking at a seeming discrepancy in Max's figures for "Funny Boy," he offhandedly comes up with a scheme to save them both--one that could only have come from the twisted mind of Mel Brooks.

To those of you new to this story, a little background:

Once upon a time, back in 1968, Mel Brooks made his first movie, a raunchy, biting satire of Broadway called "The Producers."  It was eventually hailed as not only his funniest picture, but one of the funniest ever made. It was only natural to adapt this skewering of Broadway to the Broadway stage, which Brooks finally does in 2001. It wins an unbelievable 12 Tony awards, not bad for a newcomer to Broadway. So what do to next? Why, a movie musical of "The Producers," of course, bringing Mel full circle.

Anyway, back to our friends Leo and Max. Leo mentions that under the right circumstances, a dishonest producer could make more money from a flop than a hit. Since Max is just that sort of dishonest producer, he takes to the idea immediately. The plan: find the worst, most offensive play ever written, one sure to close almost as soon as it opens. Overfinance it to the hilt, pocket the difference and skip off to Rio. On that dubious premise, we're off and running.

It doesn't take them long to find just the right (or is that wrong?) play--not just bad, but according to Max, "the mother lode": "Springtime For Hitler," described as a "gay romp with Adolf and Eva in Bertchesgaden." Leo and Max find the "playwright", a crazy Nazi named Franz Liebkind (Will Farrell) who lives on the roof of a building, with only pigeons for company. The next step--find the absolute worst director imaginable, which they find in the stereotypically but hilariously flamboyant Roger DeBris (Gary Beach, reprising his Broadway role), who when we first meet him is wearing a sequined evening gown. He's enthralled with the play, remarking "I never knew the Third Reich meant Germany..." Oh-kay. Moving on...

Enter the complication to this little scheme, Swedish bombshell Ulla (whose full name is so long I'd have to put it in a separate review) with whom Leo falls madly in love, while Max is hungrily anticipating his first encounter in years with someone under eighty. Ulla (Uma Thurman) becomes "Springtime's" female lead and Max and Leo's nominal secretary, despite the fact she can barely speak English (not that our two heroes notice, mind you).

On opening night, everything seems to be going according to plan. Liebkind, who's playing the lead, literally breaks his leg before he can go on, so DeBris goes on in his place. It's sure to be a disaster, right? Wrong. He camps it up so much, the audience considers it a brilliant satire. The panicked Max and Leo wonder where they "went right," and find themselves staring at a stretch in prison. Can they get out of this mess?

I should say this: if you're a fan of the original 1968 movie, you'll probably find this wanting. The original leads, Zero Mostel and Gene Wilder, unfortunately cast a long shadow. For someone like me, though, who didn't even see the original movie until the musical was popular, Lane and Broderick are more than worthy stand-ins for Mostel and Wilder. Broderick comes off a little better, actually, being more nebbishy and less manic than Wilder--perfect for the sort of character he's playing. Lane goes out of his way to evoke his predecessor, even emulating Mostel's infamous combover, and gives the character a smarmy sort of charm even Mostel couldn't manage. The songs, written by Brooks himself, are wonderfully catchy (even, dare I say it, "Springtime For Hitler"). Even the production numbers of the supposedly bad play-within-a play are entertaining, and expanded considerably from the original movie, where they had served as little more than a sight gag.

While I'm usually irritated by "stunt casting", Will Farrell as Liebkind was a pleasant surprise, being far funnier than I originally expected. (The animatronic "heiling" pigeons, supplied by the Jim Henson shop, didn't hurt either).

The only thing preventing a five-star review is the fact that director Susan Stroman (Mel's Broadway director) chose to remove the Broadway show's best number, "King Of Broadway." As well known as that song has become, that's comparable to taking the song "Oklahoma" out of the play bearing its name, or removing "The Rain In Spain" from "My Fair Lady." But fear not, the number was filmed, and can be seen as one of the DVD's extras. Other cuts Stroman made are also included as extras, making one wonder about her editing choices. More than a few should have been kept in, to help the flow of the movie and clarify the plot a bit.

One has the option of hearing Stroman's (unfortunately nasally) scene-by-scene commentary, but it didn't really add much background to the film. Better is the featurette analyzing one musical number, the wonderfully staged "I Wanna Be A Producer."

I strongly recommend to fans of both the original and current film to purchase both versions--each is bound to find something worth liking in the other. Whether this will be Brooks' last picture is uncertain, but if it is, "The Producers" is the perfect swan song to an ingenious career.