First of all, I should say I LOVE this series.  There is nothing like it on TV, and once again Star Wars is breaking new ground.  The show is quality.  It can be enjoyed by kids and adults alike.  The graphic design of the settings and characters is beautiful, and the story lines are thoughtful  and interesting.  As an added bonus, you get to see some characters and species from the Star Wars universe come to life.  I particularly enjoyed seeing the IG-88-type assassin droids in action and Aurra Sing in one episode.

As a lot of reviewers have said, the Blu-Ray format is a must here.  Simply dazzling.

Now comes the "BUT..."  There were a few things that I think could be improved upon.

3D animation: The movement of the characters is not always fluid or natural-looking.  I think they claim to have improved upon this for Season 2.  Some of the lip-syncing doesn't look particularly great, either.  I have seen some examples of improvement in this arena in Season 2, as well.  In at least one episode, I spotted a glaring rendering error in which you could see through Padme's head from the back.  I was amazed the error wasn't caught and corrected.

Writing:  A couple episodes dragged a little.  There were also a few plot holes, such as Anakin and Obi-Wan cleverly swapping away their drugged drinks at the end of one episode, but then finding themselves waking from a drugged coma in a holding cell at the beginning of the next episode.  Did I miss something???

Voice acting: Some of the character voices sounded like they were done by real amateurs.  Ahmed Best played Jar-Jar in one episode, and then in the next Jar-Jar episode it sounded like they pulled someone in off the street.  I swear, I can do a better Jar-Jar impersonation than the person who played him in the "Gungan General" episode.  I should mention that the actor who did the clone voices was exceptional.  He modified the voice ever so slightly from clone to clone, so they don't all sound exactly alike.

Annoying/campy characters:  I didn't hate Jar-Jar as much as everyone else in the prequels.  Sure, he was a bumbling idiot, but his bumbling usually ended up accidentally generating positive results.  I could overlook that.  The Clone Wars will make you HATE Jar-Jar if you don't already.  His goofiness ends up destroying ships, killing a senator, and costing the Republic victory on several occasions.  You have to ask yourself, "WHY ON EARTH would you bring him along anywhere???"  Throw him in prison, and the Republic can win the war in a week.

The spinning flying-saucer ship of the pirates and the cliche evil scientist/mad doctor were just a couple examples of George Lucas getting a little too nostalgic for Saturday morning serials at the expense of this series.

I think all of these flaws can be excused and remedied as the series progresses.  Overall, the show is beautiful and brilliant.  Can't wait to see more.