Audiences seem to be split concerning this movie, they hate it or love it. Personnally, I loved it much more than the original which I don't own. The animation is exceptional for straight-to-video release and the songs are as wonderful, if not more than those of the 1995 flick (I have a soft spot for "Where Do I Go From Here"). This is also one of the first Disney movies I actually rented before buying it. This story, although still historically unaccurate (Pocahontas is supposed to die a few days after they go on the boat *There won't be another sequel*), is very cute and has hilarious moments. In my mind, it would have been a hit in theatres. 
This movie is remarkable and well done compared to many Disney sequels. Let's go over them with my ratings:
The Return of Jafar: I hated it 0/5
Aladdin &amp; The King of Thieves: Not too bad 3/5
102 Dalmatians: Same story as the remake, wasn't it enough!! 0/5
Little Mermaid II: Same story as the original except Melody (Ariel's daughter) wants to go the sea (Roles exchaged). 1/5
Lady And The Tramp II: Same story with Scamp (son of Lady &amp; Tamp) agian with roles exchanged. Very poor animation! 0/5
Fantasia 2000: Lives up to the original although I didn't really like the pieces that were chosen, but for wonderful animation 4/5
The Rescuers Down Under: Good, I loved it when I was young. 3/5
Beauty &amp; The Beast Xmas: Great holiday movie and wonderful songs 4/5
More Beauty &amp; The Beast videos that weren't hits 0/5
Coming Soon (Ooh, lucky us!!):
Dumbo II
Cinderella II: Dreams Come True
The Hunchback of Notre-Dame II
101 Dalmations: The Animated Sequel (We have enough already!)
Peter Pan II: Return To Neverland
Why keep messing with our memories, anyway, we know now that Disney is just a company that's losing money and taking the most they can out of their classics by making sometimes-absurd sequels! And there will be more coming, I'm sure, so much for Happily Ever After! As long as they don't mess with my favorite, Sleeping Beauty, a masterpiece in animation that doesn't want a sequel.