I think Alien 3 is actually a really good movie. Don't get me wrong Alien is still my favourite because it is so original. Aliens was ok but a bit cheesy in places. The problem is I don't think America were ready for this movie when it was released. While we in England looked upon it as easily on par with the second in the franchise. Yet it has taken time for people to adjust to it and the Director's Cut (while not officially David Fincher's director's cut as he wanted nothing to do with the movie), has improved the movie greatly.

True, it is a very downbeat movie however it is a very powerful redepmtion story so that turns over a leaf in my book!! People are saying it had a rubbish storyline and are slagging off David Fincher, but it is not his fault. The script was written on set as they did not have a script to work with when the movie started. So I actually praise David Fincher for coming in to a movie and giving it hope. David actually saved this movie from being a major flop, true it could have been better but there were numerous diagreements between the Fox Executives and the members of the crew, so it was going to be a tough one anyway.

I think this movie is creative, the sets are amazing, the acting is the best its ever been. People say that the CGI Alien doesn't do the movie justice. That is actually a bold judgement to make when the Alien is not CGI - it is in fact composited with a controlled puppet. The only CGI shot is when it blows up at the end - but yes I agree that shot could have been better. Then again it was the first CGI shot ever made for any movie so give them some credit.

I think this movie deserves a lot better apppraisal than what some reviewers have been giving here. It may have some flaws but it is definately better than Alien Resurrection (by a long shot actually lol). I just hope Ridley Scott returns for Aliens 5 and we go back to the Alien planet which is what Renny Harlin was going to do with Alien 3 originally - it's about time somebody did it!!

Overall 8/10