Pirate Radio is one of those movies that does an excellent job telling the behind-the-scenes story of British Rock in the 60's and early 70's. For us in the States, that was an era for classic "British Invasion" rock ... but in the UK it was more like a real war.  The UK's Rock & Roll is an odd duck compared to Rock & Roll here in the U.S.  There the government OWNS the airwaves.  You can buy a radio or TV but you also have to buy licensing to actually use them!  And the British government owned all the radio and TV stations.  Also, to muck things up even more, the "authorities" classified Rock and Roll as "Obscene" and "Pornographic".  If it was allowed to be played at all, it was for only an hour a day or week ... if even that much.  So, "pirate" radio stations were set up on small ships and anchored out beyond the legal limit in the North Sea.  These pirates had their ships registered in places like Liberia and Panama to further protect themselves from the UK's governmental heavy-handedness.  And the great disk jockies of the era left the British Isles and set up business at sea.  An adventure, sure enough, as the movie concentrates the events of the times otherwise the movie would be hours and hours long.  They did a good job as the movie moves along with ... in my opinion ... no slow parts or dead spaces.  And there's action to go with the so-called "Pirates" as they invaded British airspace with "corrupt" Rock & Roll !  I won't spoil the ending ... just in case you who are reading this does not yet know how it ends.  It's an action ending, surely! But ,it's historically accurate.

Another adventure with this movie ... at least for me, personally, was whether or not I was going to be able to get a copy of "Pirate Radio" that worked.  But Amazon helped fix the problem ... even though it wasn'ttheir problem

I had seen "Pirate Radio" on HBO and I WANTED the movie for my collection.  I have watched "Pirate Radio" ... well, I lost count as to how many times!  It's a movie a lot of you will want to watch multiple times.  The movie is about rock & roll ... but can also be considred a historical documentary ... something I wouldn't at all be surprised if I saw it, one day, on the History Channel.  The historical accuracy is close enough for that, I feel.

So ... buy it (from Amazon, who sticks by its customers!) and watch it ... and enjoy the mucsic of the era in the background as the DJ's air it whilehe story unfolds ... for what actually were an oppressed people thursting for it.

Fun!  Good times!  I remember them all well !  For the music of that era helped me through Vietnam and helped me keep my head on straight.