Director Edgar G. Ulmer turned out this low budget masterpiece in six shooting days, making "Detour" a classic case of an enduring film done in the most economical manner.  Ulmer was the reigning creative head of Producers Releasing Corporation, a Poverty Row studio on Santa Monica Boulevard.  Ulmer spurned offers from majors, preferring instead to operate where he could function as his own man, away from the confining and sharply controlling influences of the big studios, where the bottom line was the essential ingredient.
Martin G. Goldsmith adapted his own screenplay from a highly praised novel which had critics comparing his earthy, "man against the forces of nature" style to James M. Cain.  Goldsmith grew up in New York but spent much time during the Depression making his way across the nation, constantly battling for survival.  Having lived the life of the main character, it is understandable why the biting narrative of Tom Neal in "Detour" has such a realistic ring, reminding one of some of Robert Mitchum's more somberly existentialist narration from "Out of the Past."  
Neal starts out in New York playing the piano in a small nightclub, after which he takes to the road, heading for Los Angeles to reunite with his girlfriend nightclub singer, who had gone West to attempt to get into the movies.  Goldsmith knew the terrain and familiarized his audience with it in the film.  While Goldsmith was destined to remain in the world of B screenwriting, he obtained a "Best Original Screenplay" Oscar nomination for a film which stands with "Detour" as being one of the greatest B noir dramas ever made.  That was the 1952 release, "The Narrow Margin," an RKO film starring Charles McGraw, Marie Windsor and Jacqueline White.  This movie paved the way to a successful career for director Richard Fleischer.
A 1945 release, "Detour" has the ring of Depression drama, following not long on the heels of that period of American history.  Neal is determined to reunite with his girlfriend and begins hitchhiking his way to Los Angeles.  He is picked up by a loquacious gambler in Arizona, who, while Neal is driving, sustains a fatal heart attack.  Convinced the police will never accept his account of events, Neal abandons the dead man and takes his wallet along with the better than seven hundred dollars in it, along with his driver's license.  The two men were of the same approximate age, so Neal decides to pass himself off as the deceased man until he gets to Los Angeles, where he intends to reassume his actual identity. 
Tough femme fatale Ann Savage foils Neal's plans.  He picks her up after noticing her hitchhiking near a gas station where he has stopped to refuel not long after crossing into California.  Once more Neal is a cruel pawn of fate.  Savage had ridden with the deceased from Shreveport, Louisiana to Arizona, ending her journey after he made a sexual advance on her.  In the ensuing fracas she badly scratched the other man.  Neal had heard that part of the story from the other man not long after getting into his car and noticing the ugly scratches.  The cynical Savage laughs at Neal when he tells her his account of what happened, accusing him of killing the other man.
Eventually Savage tells Neal that she is in control of events.  He moves into an apartment she rents in Hollywood, hoping to shake her after the dead man's car is sold.  When she learns through a newspaper article, however, that the dead man's father is seriously ill and worth fifteen million dollars, she orders Neal to attempt to pass himself off as the man's son, since he had been told that the man had not seen his father since running away from home as a youngster after putting out a playmate's eye.  Neal rebels, insisting that the crazy scheme would never work, and that he had no access to personal information about the dead man, contending he would be tripped up in no time.
The hand of fate deals Neal another stern blow after an argument with Savage.  The heavily drinking woman steps into the bedroom, announcing her intention of calling the police and turning Neal in for murder, angry that he will not act upon her idea to shake money out of the father of the dead man.  She passes out before making the call with the phone cord around her neck.  Neal does not know this since the door is closed.  He instead attempts to pull the cord out of the wall, thinking she is calling the police.  Instead, through fluke circumstances, his efforts result in the accidential death of Savage.
Neal then takes to the road, sadly abandoning his reunion with his girlfriend, wishing her "happiness" but realizing that any involvement would be to her disadvantage.  After stepping out into the darkness after having coffee in a diner near Bakersfield, Neal is apprehended after a police car pulls to a stop beside the road.
Goldsmith's brilliant narration contains the desperate ring of a man seeking to survive as long as he can in the most trying circumstances.  Neal realizes he is doing no more than staving off the inevitable for a little while longer.  His is the sad tone of a man who knows that he has been the victim of a merciless fate.