I am old enough to remember the slaghter of Kiss Me Stupid. The Catholic League condemned it. Life magazine had a big story about how it had gone over the line. No one would even talk about it on TV. Did you know How to Succeed at Business Without Really Trying received an R rating and A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum was initially given an X? This in the swinging 60's. Must have had something to do with JFK being wacked.

Yet nine years after the public public lynching of KMS, people were giggling over Deep Throat. Go figure.

I had never seen it until I bought it from Amazon last week. It's a good movie with no weak links in the caste, although I must say Dean Martin blew me away. Good God Almighty, what a powerful job. Truth is, he should have been nominated for an Oscar.

Two more general comments. I have read other reviews and a commonality is  thinking Peter Sellers would have been better than Ray Walston and knocking the songs. Sellers did a number of brilliant performances and many poor ones; such is genius. He was worthless in Casino Royale, but, really, what did he have to work with? Plus he wouldn't have fit in KMS. He was too big for the part. Spencer Tracy, James Cagney and Zero Mostel were great at comedy, but they would wrongly dominated in the jealous piano teacher role. The composing duo were unknowns and with Sellers there, and wiith something to work with, poor Cliff Osmond would have disappeared and poor Dean Martin would have awoke in cold sweats thinking "I'm with Jerry again."

Some times cast changes are for the best. For example I am happy Ronald Reagan was not available for Casablanca or Shirley Temple for The Wizard of Oz.

The songs? Hey, boys and girls, the songs were good, and they were not written to be bad. First of all, I get the impresssion the people writing about the poor quality don't realize George Gershwin died in 1937 and Ira, who wrote the words for Can't Get Started, was retired. He hauled out George's unpublished music and added lyrics. I'm a Poached Egg is a good 1920's list song, like Cole Porter's You're the Top. And when Osmond brags over using "Mona Lece" to rhyme ("That's it's charm") he is commenting on the lyricist who wrote 'S Wonderful, DeLISHious and Let's Call the Whole Thing Off, which starts "You say either and I say either, you say neither and I say neither," and had a line in another song of "My dear, I feel so tinilish,, I'll even overlookk your Engel-ish."

Besides, the Gershwin's protected George's reputation like the Kennedy's did jFK's. Ira would never perposefully do a bad lyric to George.

So see it and dra your own conclusion. It certainly was establishment sodomized unfairly almost fifty years ago.