Did I unjustly help ring the death knell of the ST:TNG movie franchise?
So, I need to admit... I passed on seeing ST: Nemesis in the theatres... and I'm not quite sure why. I don't think it was because there were a myriad of competing movies out at the same time... I don't think it was because I didn't have any interest in seeing another Trek movie... I think it was because of 3 reasons.
1. Minor reason. OK, I was a ST:TNG fan. I will admit. I loved each character. I enjoyed the original series with Kirk at al, but, lets face it... it was campy. I never got into Voyager, Deep Star 9 or whatever, and now, at 28, I'm just too busy to really invest time into watching an hour long drama every week on a regular basis (ala Enterprise). But I digress... yes, I always loved TNG. And, well... before the movie came out, there were rumors that they were going to kill off a main character. Well, I just didn't want to see that happen.
2. Major reason. The marketing for this movie was AWFUL. If I recall, the trailors focused more on the "dune buggy on a bleak sun-bleached desert planet" scene, eliciting memories of some of the more awful contributions to the Star Trek film legacy (namely Star Trek:5, and Star Trek: Insurrection). I'm sorry, but when I think "Star Trek Movie", I don't want a lot of planet-side action... I want epic starship battles. I want explosions, and hull breaches, and torpedos, and monumental clashes. 
3. On top of it, there simply was ZERO buzz about this movie. Paramount spent, what, $2.73 on promoting this movie? If any Star Trek film killed the movie franchise, it wasn't "Nemesis", but the previous installment, "Insurrection".  Movie sequels and franchizes need to feed of the buzz and hype off the one before it, and let's face it folks, "Insurrection" was an awful movie, and "Nemesis" paid the price for it.
So, why am I writing this?
I just rented "Nemesis", and, well... dare I say, it's one of the three best movies in the series!!!! (behind The Wrath of Khan, and First Contact).
I was totally engrossed in the story line! The dune buggy scene WAS actually hokey, but was only a minor little side-bar, the villain was menacing yet complex, and I even felt some sympathy for the character. The special F/X were really good, the directing was competent, the mood was dark (Star Trek with a David Fincheresque twist!), the visuals were stunning, the interplay of the characters with the emphasis of "family" was indeed touching, the ending sacrifice actually worked, and the ending space battle between the Enterprise and some of the Romulan/Reman ships were some of the best captured on film for the entire franchise... be in a movie or a television show. It was EVERYTHING I could possibly want in a Trek movie...
THIS IS A GREAT ADDITION TO THE STAR TREK FRANCHISE!  
So, I am sorry I didn't go see this movie in the theatre. I'm sorry that this great movie did not do so well in the theatres, and I'm sorry that because of it, there may never be another Star Trek:TNG movie again. And for that, I'm rather sad.
So, if you are a Star Trek fan that stayed away like I did, or a sci-fi fan in general... buy the DVD. Support the franchise. Maybe we can now make up the poor box-office receipts and potentially secure another Next Generation film somewhere down the line.