As of this writing, this film is listed as:

In the Heat of the Night (40th Anniversary Collector's Edition) (1967)
Starring: Buzz Barton , Khalil Bezaleel

Later in the description, it lists the actors as:
Buzz Barton , Khalil Bezaleel , Quentin Dean , Phil Garris, Larry Gates

This is a sure sign that Amazon has contracted their web design out to a foreign country.  The people setting up each page do not speak English and do not watch American movies.  They looked up a list of players somewhere and picked the first few in alphabetical order.

They had a long way to go to get to the real stars of this great film:  Sidney Poitier and Rod Steiger.

The really annoying thing is that this is not an isolated incident.  I have been noticing this for months while working my way through the New and Future DVD Releases.  The other thing they do is list the current year as the year of release of all the movies.  So this year, for instance, every movie was released in 2007.  Yeah, I know the DVD was released this year, but many of the films are much older.

The problem with all this is that when I see a familiar title but don't recognize any of the actors listed and see a release date of the current year, I think it's a new remake and look no further.  I have probably missed the release of DVDs of some of my favorite classic films because of this.

I guess I need to look elsewhere for new DVD release info.  Should I also look elsewhere to purchase them?

BTW, I don't see much difference between this 40th Anniversary Edition and the original release which you can still get for much less money.

Five stars for this great film, minus one for the rip-off price.  I'd subtract another for the poor product description, but it's not the movie's fault.  ;-)

29 December 2007

Ahhh!!!  Somebody at Amazon noticed and updated the actors and director info.  Excellent!

But other than the added AC-3 audio and dubbing (what language?), I don't see why one would want to pay an additional few bucks for the 40th Anniversary Edition.  Oh well.