I give 4 1/2 stars for the theatrical version, 5 stars for the special edition and 5 for the DVD. Here are the new scenes added in for the special edition:

Chapter 4: The Park

This new scene shows Ripley sitting down for a while and Carter Burke comes to talk to Ripley about her upcoming meeting about the fact that she destroyed the Nostromo for what the people going to be at the meeting think for reasons unknown. Ripley asks about her daughter, finding out that she died two years ago at the age of 66.

Chapter 5: Inquest

This extended scene of the meeting shows Van Lewen sentencing Ripley to psychiatric probation and suspending her warrant officer license.

Chapter 6: LV-426

This new scene has new characters in it, and it shows the families at LV-426 working.

Chapter 7: The Big Score

This new scene fully introduces Newt's family. Newt, her brother Timmy and her parents drive around in their space car (not sure what it is called, but it's a guess) and they find the Alien ship that was in the first Alien movie. Newt's parents go and look the area over, and Newt's father comes back with a facehugger attached to his face.

Chapter 8: Home Alone

This extended scene is an extended conversation between Lieutenant Gorman, Burke and Ripley.

Chapter 10: Sulaco

This new scene is the uncut version of the introduction the Sulaco.

Chapter 14: Express Elevator to Hell

This extended scene shows Hudson bragging about all the weapons the Marines have.

Chapter 15: Arrival

This extended scene shows Hudson and Vasquez's radar detecting a lifeform inside. When they go inside where the lifeform is, and it is only a mouse.

Chapter 16: Memories

This extended scene first shows Ripley, Gorman and Burke entering the complex. Then, Ripley hesitiates for a moment.

Chapter 26: Barricade

Hicks reveals everything that survived from the wreckage of the Sulaco dropship. And they plan where to put the sentry guns

Chapter 27: A Mother's Love

This extended scene shows more dialogue between Ripley and Newt.

Chapter 28: Speculation

This extended scene shows Hudson making up an "ant" theory.

Chapter 29: The Tunnel

This new scene shows the sentry guns in the tunnel firing and killing the Aliens.

Chapter 31: The Corridor

This extended scene first shows the other sentry guns unloading onto the Aliens.

Chapter 37: Ripley's Promise

This extended scene shows Ripley and Hicks exchanging first names.