I'm not really a big Stephen King fan. But, this story is a gem. A werewolf tale done from a very different perspective. Corey Haim is the main character in the film and plays the part of Marty, a young boy confined to a wheelchair to get around. Megan Follows is his sister and best friend and Gary Busey is his Mom's brother, a well-soaked Uncle, called Red. To me, the relationship between Marty and his sister and Marty and his Uncle Red are the main attractions in this movie. The special effects aren't really all that great, the screen-play is mediocre, overall and the supporting cast do a pretty good job in their flat, one-dimensional roles.

 But, Uncle Red loves his nephew and likes to spend time with him. He's drunk on a regular basis, which leads you to think that, maybe somehow, he's partly to blame for Marty's condition. It's never even suggested, but the pain he shows at times over Marty's disability seems telling. He also likes doing things to make Marty happy, like building him a souped-up, decked-out three wheel motorized wheel chair, with way too much power for an eleven year old kid. You can sense his fear for Marty's safety when he gives it to him. But, his desire to make his nephew happy overwhelms his sense of responsibility. There are many other scenes that are really wonderful to watch Busey playing Uncle Red and his role is a true highlight of this film.

Megan Follows as Marty's sister, Jane is also wonderful to watch. It's one of the heart warming aspects of this movie. As she's frustrated at being cast, by her parents, as Marty's gofer and getter, so to speak, and also being constantly berated for not keeping  her brother on a tight enough leash, there's also the love she feels for her brother and the fact that she believes in him. This is a very important aspect of the film. Marty believes he has seen a werewolf, which is, of course, an unbelieveable thing and he desperately needs someone to believe him and believe in him. His sister is there for him and gives him the faith that he needs.

This movie is judged best, in my opinion, on it's characterizations and the relationships between the characters. In the end, though, those are the most importasnt aspects of any film. It's simple, but loads of fun!

My wife and I both really liked to see Corey in the movies back when he was popular and I was very saddened to hear about his untimely passing, last month. He did such a wonderful job playing the sweet, good natured, innocent kid and he was such a welcome addition to any movie. I wish that he could have had a more happy life as an adult.