FINALLY! After much procrastination, I got this DVD! I loved the album version of LAB, but seeing them just BLEW ME AWAY! THIS is how a DT show REALLY is!

Okay. First off, the production is SOLID! John Petrucci and Mike Portnoy (guitarist and drummer, respectively) did a great job of producing it in the studio. The drums sound great, and the instruments sound better! On top of that, if that wasn't enough and it would make any DT fan drool, James sounds GREAT! Sure, he KINDA sounds nasal, but it's because he sometimes sings too close to the mic'. I'd say this is the best production on ANY DT release.

Second, the performance is AMAZING! Here's a quick rundown through the tracks:

As I Am: Great, energetic live starter. The solo is MINDBLOWING.

This Dying Soul: Great enough follow up. Love Jordan's keyboard adlibs here.

Beyond This Life: The extended jam session gave me a massive erection.

Hollow Years: I love JP's added Spanish guitar solo at the intro.

War Inside My Head/The Test That Stumped Them All: Now it gets back to HEAVY! The transition between these 2 songs is amazing!

Endless Sacrifice: Great, just like the studio version, though.

Instrumedley: A mix of all the band's instrumentals! AMAZING!

Trial of Tears: Amazing. James never sounded better.

New Millennium: Great but I don't get why the crowd roared with excitement during the intro.

Keyboard solo: "Ladies and gentlemen, MR. Jordan Rudess!" Exellent keyboard solo!

Only a Matter of Time: Along with TOT, James' best performance here.

Goodnight Kiss/Solitary Shell: Exellent, yet again, one of James's bets peroformances.

Stream of Consciousness: Great instrumental!

Disappear: Better than the "Six..." version!

Pull Me Under: Do I need to say anything here?

In the Name of God: And now the grand finale! IT was absolutely amazing! The added solo at the end was brilliant! I did the hand swinging along with the crowd ;).

On to disc 2:

It gives a documentary of the band's tour. IT's great to watc, and has a hilarious moment: When LaBrie was getting his voice in shape, John P. and Jordan tried to sing to! "Did I mention... YEAH!"

There is also the intro tape, which is what they played at the start of each show on tour.

There are John P. and Jordan's setups, which ARE indeed interesting.

There's Mike's killer drum solo.

And there's a multi-angle lense of "Instrumedley".

All in all, it is a must for ALL DT fans.