A very solid film shot in that serious, no nonsense "German" way, that depicts a subject that for a long time was simply swept under the carpet. The mass orgy of rape and murder by Red Army soldiers of females in Eastern Europe. 'Eine Frau in Berlin' is based on the 'Anonyma' diary of a Berlin woman, Marta Hillers, who had remained nameless up until 2 years after her death. Upon the original release of her diary in the 1950's, there was such an outrage that she was compelled to with-hold any future reprints.

Hillers, played namelessly by Nina Hoss, undergoes a series of brutal rapes after the Soviets roll into the streets of Berlin, which has become a city of rubble, populated by women, children and old men unfit for military service. The women (and girls) are taken by force or threat of lethal force and are utterly helpless in their hopeless situation. Hillers then decides to take matters into her own hands as best as she can in the situation that presents itself to her and tries to make sure that she decides who is to rape her, thereby giving herself what little control she is able to assign to herself. In doing so, she "enlists" the "protection" of a Soviet Officer, by offering herself to him. Over time, the officer and Hillers form a strange relationship forged in no small part by the utter chaos that surrounds them both.

'Eine Frau in Berlin' covers some rough ground and it's a brave move by the producers to film the project in the first place. The location, vehicles, uniforms and people all look incredibly authentic and the viewer really does get the feel of what it was like to be a civilian on a Berlin street in the final weeks of the war. In that respect, it's a great companion piece to the excellent 'Downfall', a film which refused to touch upon the subject of mass rape at all.

However, the film isn't half as harsh as it should have been, given the fact that the Soviet soldiers raped females "from 8 to 80" and one feels that there was still a lot left unsaid. The film is also confined to the Berliner's ordeals, which I suppose is to be expected. However, it wasn't just in Berlin, or Germany that Soviet troops unleashed their base actions. Throughout Poland, Hungary, Latvia and other countries, including parts of Russia as well, women were subject to this barbarity. There are even stories of women from "liberated" concentration camps being raped too.

Of course, just like it's wrong to suggest that all German soldiers were nazis, it's equally wrong to suggest that all Red Army personnel engaged in wanton rape and murder and the film goes some way to showing this.

In the end, the vast majority of Russians, like every soldier in WWII regardless of their nation, simply wanted the war to be over so that they could go home.