I think the key to understanding this movie is to get the motivation of its characters. The mystery centers around specifics (what did the perpetrator do to this woman). But there is an alternate mystery of why he did it and why the boyfriend makes the decisions that he does. I'd classify this film as a mystery and a thriller, as opposed to a horror movie, though I can understand why viewers would be horrified by the actions taking place. I also think we need to question the motivations of the victim, who basically just walks into the crime scene practically begging to be abducted. Consider her actions first: In her supreme innocence and joyous with love, she actually offers to accompany her abductor back to his car to ostensively buy a trinket for her boyfriend. She goes to a car with a stranger, hesitates for a moment, sees a photograph of him with his family, and decides to trust him. Fatal mistake. This man has plotted an abduction of this type for a long time, but was never able to lure an unwitting victim (with the exception of one possible time a few minutes earlier). Here, the victim more or less offers herself. Then consider the abductor: of course he is deceptively normal, otherwise he'd have been jailed years ago as a potential kidnapper. He's tried many times to get his victims into his car, where he overcomes and drugs them. But no one falls for the ruse. Women have a basic presence of mind not to get into a car with a strange man. Saskia's natural defenses have abandoned her in her sleepless and traumatized state (there was a mishap with her and her boyfriend the night before which sets up this scene). Our perpetrator has a job and a nice family, but he's well aware that he's basically insane. He sees this sociopathology as an experimental opportunity--to see how evil he can be and get away with it. Basically, he plots to commit the perfect crime. And he does. Then there's the boyfriend: consumed by guilt and remorse. He will do literally anything to find out exactly what has happened to Saskia. He knows that he will die in the process, I think that is clear. He may be shocked at his fate, but I'm sure he knew he would not come out of his encounter alive.