Here we have a really good, and incredibly disturbing animated sci-fi Horror film! `Dead Space: Downfall' is a full-length film which serves as a very cool prequel to the video game that was just unleashed onto the world. Just in time for Halloween, this movie serves up a nice big plate of blood, guts, and sci-fi monster horror.

Weather you are a fan of Dead Space, animation, horror, or science fiction this is one of those movies that just hits your geek glands in all the right places. It is ultra violent and very clever in the way they execute the story and action sequences. This animated movie does not hold back on the blood, violence, and action. The creative team really takes it to a whole new level on American animated violence.

The film takes place on a spacecraft during a mining mission. They uncover an ancient artifact that they think may prove the existence of God. The only problem is it seems like it proves more of the existent of the devil. It's like a Pandora's Box and the crew just opened it. The crew remove the artifact from its resting place and bring it onto the ship, because it sounded like a good idea at the time. So what happens? Only one of the worst things imaginable. A long-dormant alien race is unleashed on the ship, to viciously tear apart, and take over every human on board. The crew is totally unprepared for this madness, and it turns into one hell of a crazy blood bath battle for survival. A little slice of heaven that transforms the spacecraft into a living hell.

I had a great time watching this movie. The action comes at you really fast and once it starts there is no letting up. One scene after another you get bombarded with fun badassery as you follow a small group of soldiers trying to survive the carnage that beats down on them.

Just to give you an idea, if I were to compare this movie to any other film it would be `Event Horizon'. `Dead Space: Downfall' is actually a better film than most of the horror films Hollywood has been releasing in theaters recently.

You gotta watch this movie!