Save your sci-fi DVD sheckles for the August 22nd, 2006 re-mastered, re-release of one of the finest,'funnest' outer space adventures ever made--"This Island Earth" ("TIE"). You wouldn't try to judge spectacles like Spielberg's phenomenon of "Jaws" up against 2006 CGI-effects standards, nor should you attempt to compare the movie-making standards of 1956 to today's filmaking of sci-fi spectacles. Just trust that "TIE" was the premier effort (along with Forbidden Planet) made by a Hollywood studio at making a state-of-the-art outer space movie in the mid 1950's. "TIE" and "Forbidden Planet"(new DVD Special editions coming on Nov.14th) stood out as the very best films of their small outer space genre, at least until "2001 A Space Odyssey" in 1969 anyway.

"TIE" actually did spend nearly two and one-half years in production(as trumpeted on its outstanding one-sheet poster) and it shows! Phenomenal, never-since-surpasssed matte work on and around the distant planet Metaluna still thrills today. The sense of wonder overall approaches that of "Close Encounters Of The Third Kind" as you are whoooshed off into a mysterious journey from dull 'ol earth to help save a dying civilization. Sure the 'science' from those far-off movie-making days doesn't hold up. But there was a majesty (and a sadness) to the performance of Jeff Morrow as Exeter that sure does. Let's also point out the fine performace and incredible beauty of the late Faith Domergue as the lady nuclear scientist. Another actor unjustly never given her due.

The biggest joke of Mystery Science Theater's series was when they chose the classic "TIE" as a film to parody. The joke was on those fools because this film delivers thrills and imagination that have seldom been equaled by other outer space films during any decade. In fact, just why isn't it possible for Hollywood to find still another great story set in outer space to get us all in our movie theater seats once more? A properly budgeted and promoted "Serenity" sequel anyone? A film version of Arthur C.Clarke's "Against The Fall Of Night"?

If you haven't seen this film, then you should be in for a jaw-dropping treat as, along with all of the film's many fans, we can only hope that Universal will finally be releasing a pristine transfer of this classic.

Once more though, the "U studio" totally misses the boat by not providing a smidgeon of bonus features for one of their most requested titles. What, you Universal shmucks couldn't get a commentary from the sorely underrated Rex Reason? He gave a fine performance of a heroic, thinking person's scientist; one for the ages! Once more--shame on you Universal!

Oh, but thanks for the (fingers crossed) re-mastered, re-release anyway. We expect the amazing technicolor color scheme of "TIE" to be amongst the finest ever seen on our home theater screens, this time out. Do not disappoint us, guys!