'Paycheck' the movie outshines 'Paycheck' the Philip K. Dick story on a number of levels, and is a rare case of the movie hitting on more cylinders than the source material.
The idea behind the movie is, of course, pure PKD, and it's important not to overlook that. A man is hired to reverse-engineer something, but has his memory erased. In the story this is handled somewhat sloppily, with there being a clause saying that a person can either be paid their millions of dollars or hold onto whatever they could fit in a manila envelope. Um...okay? In addition, we have the added Secret Police (the Orwellian enforcers which are a staple of much of PKD's fiction) which serve only to clutter the landscape. The movie also does away with the literal deus ex machina which PKD ends his story with. The PKD story has the feeling of a full-length novel compressed into a short story, while the movie is able to chuck some of the more cumbersome aspects and let the idea breathe.
The film is able to humanize its protagonist in a way the story simply did not take time to, and the additional add-on of Uma Thurman as the romantic interest, while driven by the Hollywood mentality that every movie needs a hot woman for the hero to rub up on, serving to further the story, and so making her inclusion not entirely gratuitous. It also provides us with true human moments to fill in the between-action scenes. Aaron Eckhart's character is never fleshed out beyond 'Evil Corporate Guy,' which is disappointing.
The notion of being able to see and affect the future is one which PKD glosses over in his soft-sf story...vague references to existing technology and a 'time-scoop' are all the reader is ever given, while the movie actually attempts a halfway-plausible explanation for its future-viewing. In addition, the idea itself is also played out with several more objects in tow, all of them seamlessly integrated into the plot, as well as making the salient and timely point concerning cause-and-effect that PKD would not hit on until a few years later in his own fiction. For instance: it points out the inherent fallacy in starting wars to prevent them. 
As for the action, I've never been a particular fan of John Woo, who is more of a visual pornographer-of-action than a director anyway. The movie's weakest points come during these high-adrenaline scenes, such as when electronics engineer Ben Affleck displays a stuntman's level of skill in handling a motorcycle. 
All in all, however, PKD's visionary and brilliant idea simply played out better in this form, not only in a more accessible but also more securely built frame. Much as I'm a fan of the man's work and his unique worldview, this movie takes the seed idea of 'Paycheck' and makes for a genuinely intriguing sci-fi outing.