Regardless of your stance on the death penalty, this remains a difficult movie to watch, and perhaps that's exactly what makes Dead Man Walking a great movie.  
The movie centers around a nun named Sister Helen Prejean (played by Susan Sarandon) who befriends a convicted murderer and rapist named Matthew Poncelet (Sean Penn) who is scheduled to be executed by lethal injection in the State of Louisiana.  Poncelet first seeks Sister Helen's help in filing his appeal and obtaining legal representation.  She is at his side through all the legal proceedings, and once Poncelet's chances for clemency are exhausted, she then helps him prepare for the execution by giving him spiritual guidance.  Sister Helen must also try and allay the hurt and betrayal felt by the parents of the children that Poncelet was convicted of murdering.  
This movie's greatest strength is the tremendous performances by Susan Sarandon and Sean Penn.  Both were given Academy Award nominations for their roles, and Sarandon actually won the Oscar for Best Actress.  I would have given this movie a 5 star rating, but I wasn't completely satisfied with the way in which the friendship between Sister Helen and Matthew Poncelet developed.  In movies where two people from opposite walks of life come together for a given purpose, both usually walk away a little wiser and with a broader perspective.  Sean Penn's character showed these changes, but Susan Sarandon's character was the same at the end of the movie as it was at the beginning.  According to this movie, Sister Helen had learned nothing valuable or life-altering from her friendship with Matthew Poncelet.  
When it first came out, this movie generated a great deal of public discussion about the death penalty.  Those who support capital punishment believe that, in theory, there are certain crimes so heinous that those who commit them should be required to forfeit their life as restitution.  This movie shows the huge difference between theory and reality.  I think people might change their minds about capital punishment once they see that carrying out this theory requires strapping a guy onto a gurney, sticking a needle into his arm, and injecting him with lethal chemicals.  I'll probably think about this movie for a long time to come, and it's entirely possible that it may sway my opinion on the death penalty.
Regardless of your stance on this controversial subject, this movie is guaranteed entertainment, and a definite must-see!