This movie is not to be judged by it's cover!!! It's not the dark, twisted fright-fest that the cover may make you believe! It's twisted, yes, definitely dark, but it's NOT frighening in the least. The movie has a sense of humor that goes perfectly with its theme. Also, don't take it for some sci-fi action flick because it has the same director and two of the actors that all did Alien Resurrection. IT's COMPLETELY different.
I found this movie amazing! The effects were excellent, and the sets were bewildering in their attention to detail.
The actors were incredible! Dominique Pinon plays his (7) clones very well, and the guy playing Krank is perfect for the part - he has the mad scientist look, and he plays it like a master.
The characters in the Krank family brought back memories of playing the game Maniac Mansion. For those of you who've played it before, you may notice the similarities between the Kranks and the Edisons.
some of the characters were downright [messed] up though - like those siamese twins.... I didn't like her. But those Cyclops things... damn, those were weird. Cool idea though!
Everyone played their parts superbly, but I think the one who stole the show was the pretty little girl who played Miette. She has acting talent far beyond her age (which is now about 16 or 17, but at the time she couldn't have been older than 9 or 10). I forget her name though. Judith Vittot, I think.
I never would have pitted Ron Perlman for the part he plays - especially since the first movie I saw him (and Dominique Pinon as well) in was the ill-fated Alien Resurrection. Perlman's character in Alien 4 was the rude, obnoxious Johner. In COLC he plays a compassionate circus strongman with a child's mentality who wants to save his kidnapped "little brother" from Krank.
This film isn't for everyone. It's very artistic. Not a frantic action-packed flick or anything like that. It doesn't really fit into any particular genre, because it's just too different...P>This is a very, very good film, but not for all types! You have to be open minded, willing to drop stereotypes and your ideas of acting "charicatures".