You're watching some incredible interviews, rare and great footage, learning a bit about the Africa of 1974 and grooving to the music. Getting swept up in the excitement of what this is all about...
About an hour goes by and just when you start to forget why this all taking place you see these two in the ring together and as they engage each other, stand toe to toe in the center of the ring it hits you. Hits you hard. 
These are two legends of the ring. These are two giants that walk among us and THIS...this is the fight...THE FIGHT that forever will be part of boxing history, boxing lore and boxing mythology. That outside the ring and the world of boxing this is something that will be part of forever. The enormity of the moment is almost overwhelming...
The movie itself is somewhat dated as far as film making goes. Get ready to travel back to the mid '70's / early '80s. It's like a "Behind The Music" (VH1) before there was a "Behind The Music" and of course it's about the fight that took place in Zaire between George Forman and Muhammad Ali. "The Rumble in the Jungle".
If you can check out Muhammad Ali - The Whole Story for more complete footage of the actual fight (and THE best Muhammad Ali DVD/VHS around). Muhammad in reality does a lot better than we are all led to believe hearing the story of the Rumble in the Jungle. He in fact holds his own and you see why the fight wasn't stopped or why you always hear how close it actually was.
When Were Kings is a terrific film. As a Muhammad Ali fan it's a must for my collection. No question. Just for the footage of the two of them in the middle of the ring pre-bell. The stare down. THAT moment alone is worth the price of admision. If you're an Ali fan you need this. 
As a boxing enthusiast it's great to see Thomas Hauser, George Plimpton and Norman Mailer. It's always so fun to see George Forman in his previous persona and seeing a young Don King and Bundini Brown and the others (too many to name here) and of course to see and hear Muhammad Ali!