The story behind this movie isn't at all bad. It's just executed in an extraordinary bad manner. First, this may be a loyal star trek fans paranoia or did the turbo lift doors and other sets not have the crisp sounds when they open or close like in previous movies? If the crew can't get the turbo lift doors right then how can they get the more important parts of the movie right? Also, when the scene where Captain Picard receives the orders to proceed into Romulan space from Admiral Janeway and the Enterprise goes to warp on his orders have any energy? I didn't think that it did and it's a crucial scene to get a star trek audience into a film. Star Trek: Generations had the intense plot building scene in Stellar Cartography with Picard and data, Star Trek: First Contact contained the scene where the Enterprise warped to Earth to encounter the borg, and Star Trek: Insurrection even had scenes that built the excitement with the plot with the Enterprise traveling to the briar patch and through the briar patch. One thing that I believe these scenes shared was that they got the audience pumped for the primary development of the plot. This corresponding scene in Star Trek: Nemesis left you feeling cold and uninterested.

In addition, even though there was a barrage of weapons fire exchanged in the Enterprise and between the Enterprise and the Scimatar you didn't even get the feeling that the fight is a legitimate one because of the sheer size of the scimatar and its defense capabilities. The whole battle has no point when Cmdr. Laforge informs the bridge that the Scimatar shields are at 70 percent even though the Enterprise "supposely" emptied the contents of its torpedo launchers on it. This film doesn't grab you and say "Hey, this is some serious stuff" even though the potential of that occurance is technically in the film. This is also frustrating because there will not be another ST: TNG film even there were talks of one only a few months ago. Having a leading actor such as Patrick Stewart at an age of 65  shortened the life span of the trek franchise. Frankly, Stuart Baird's performance as the director on Nemesis wasn't anything to write home about and he didn't believe in the theme behind Star Trek that Gene Roddenberry created.