MANOR HOUSE is a "slice-of-life, deliberately-devised 'reality'" program, one of several that ran on PBS.  Others in the series are "Frontier House" and "Colonial House", etc.  What happens is, a group of modern-day people, (NOT actors), dress up in the clothes, and live, (as nearly as possible), the lives of people during a past era.

"Manor House" stands out in my mind for ssevral reasons.  As the "action" of the story here is in the 1900s, it is the nearest in time to our own, (unlike "Colonial House", or "Frontier House".  Also, I remember that the woman playing the "Lady of the Manor" is, in real life, a Medical Docror, (MD).  She enjoyed playing the role of "Lady of the Manor" SO much, that at the end, she says it would be nice to continue as such.  Also, amongst the other "actors" in this series, a REAL-LIFE romance bloossomed, and, at the end of the series, these two people, (I shant tell you which ones!), decided to get married in their actual, late 20th century - early 21st century, lives.

This series is flawlessly done, and really does take the viewer into this era.
And, unlike compainion PBS series, like "Frontier House" and "Colonial House",
the life-style in the Grand Homes of England, (and elsewhere where dwell the rich and famous), often do, (on perhaps a much-modified scale), still exist, (in REAL reality), today.

Another PBS program proved this fact, beyond all doubt.  Ir was called 'COUNTRY HOUSE', or "A COUNTRY HOUSE", and showed the workings of a modern English estate.
It was a fascinating REAL slice of aristocratic life, as lived in the late 20th-early 21st century.  The part I remember most was when one of the tenant's children became ill, and needed to go to hospital -- and have an operation, if I remember correecty.  The owner of the estate paid for all expenses for this hospital stay and operation.

I do hope that ("A COUNTRY HOUSE', or just "COUNTRY HOUSE"), is available on DVD -- or even VHS. For THIS is "reality-reality", and truly shows what is being done in MODERN manor houses -- today.  In the meantime, this "made into reality" series,
"Manor House", comes the closest of any DVD that I have come across that is available, at present.