Irving Berlin's classic musical "Holiday Inn" which stars Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire is such a wholesome and entertaining movie. Produced in 1942, it is one of Crosby's earliest movies that reinforced his appeal not only as a singer but also an actor. The film was nominated for three Academy Awards including Original Motion Picture Story, Best Song for "White Christmas" and Scoring of A Musical Picture.

The plot revolves around four main characters: Jim Hardy (Bing Crosby), the owner of Holiday Inn in Connecticut who is also the inn's main singer/performer; Ted Hanover (Fred Astaire), a dancer and Hardy's performing partner; Linda Mason (Marjorie Reynolds), a singer/performer at Holiday Inn who is being wooed by both Hardy and Hanover; Lila Dixon (Virginia Dale), also a singer/performer who was once courted by Hardy and Hanover while they were a trio of performers at a club in New York City. Although Hardy and Hanover excel in their respective crafts--Hardy as a singer and Hanover as a dancer--the only thing they have in common is their interests and attraction to the same lady at the same time. It happened with Lila Dixon and again with Linda Mason, which made Hardy sighing and saying: "Here we go again."

Under the direction of Mark Sandrich, the viewers are guaranteed an enjoyable musical/comedy from start to finish. Crosby sings splendidly  and Astaire dances so gracefully. They both made this movie memorable and an enduring classic. Irving Berlin's most remarkable songs are featured here from "White Christmas" and "Easter Parade" to "I'll Capture Your Heart Singing" and "Be Careful, It's My Heart." The song and dance numbers are truly spectacular.

This DVD Special Edition is a collector's item. The digital remastering was excellently done. You wouldn't think that the movie was filmed 70 years ago. It also has interesting bonus features like an interview with Fred Astaire's daughter, Ava Astaire-MacKenzie by film historian/author/producer Ken Barnes; the making of the unforgettable song and dance numbers; film clips of Bing Crosby's memorable performances from his other movies such as "Moonlight Becomes You" from Road To Morocco, 1942 and "White Christmas" from Blue Skies, 1946, the film that made his signature Christmas song became a primary theme song for the military men and women who wish to be home and spend Christmas holiday with their families.

Movie producers nowadays don't make movies like this anymore, so this DVD is absolutely a collector's item and a keeper. Wholesomely recommended for your viewing pleasure.