but I'll give this two stars, as I can see a specific audience for whom this DVD might be just right.

I've been belly dancing for several years now, and although I'm no professional dancer, I'm familiar with the dance form. I teach a belly dance class, and thought it would be fun to add a little Bollywood. I've been studying flamenco/gypsy dance for a little while, and hoped this DVD would augment that knowledge. And I've always wanted to learn the basics of Latin dance, so this DVD seemed just right.

Well, what a letdown. Elsa's belly dance technique would give any of the instructors I've had a heart attack, particularly those who take Egyptian style seriously. As mentioned, I'm just learning flamenco/gypsy, but my instructor is a phenomenal dancer, and I trust her technique. Elsa definitely has a different style...and I wasn't impressed. Her approach is just a few steps too far from authentic. I was so stunned by her...shall we say, "unique" approach to belly dance and flamenco that I'm afraid to consider learning any of the other styles she dances, lest I learn a new dance form in a totally inappropriate manner.

As for the performance dances...I asked my husband to watch the belly dance segment. His first comment was, "Her hands are really floppy, totally ugly." (And all he knows about the dance is what he's picked up by being around me!) He watched a bit longer, then said, "Is she supposed to be a professional? 'Cause she's awful, really bad."

Sadly, I have to agree. The veil sequence is just Elsa turning, and turning, and turning. And her hands really, truly are limp and uninspired. Maybe the overall routine is repetitive because she hopes to show that you can put together a routine by repeating the same movements over and over again, with just slight variations. Unfortunately, the truth is that, if you *do* put together a routine with the same movements, over and over, it gets repetitive! The Bollywood dance is just plain boring, it's so repetitive. I didn't have the heart to ask my husband to critique it.

That said, I have one positive comment. I love that Elsa doesn't have a so-called "perfect" body, and she makes no apologies. You go, Elsa!

There's someone for every DVD, and I'm sure there's someone for whom this DVD is just right. If you'd like a different, dance-based workout -- with the knowledge that you won't be learning correct, authentic technique in at least two of the forms -- this video could be just the ticket. If you'd like to learn something about belly dance or flamenco, steer clear of this DVD.