Being a die-hard Austen fan, I couldn't resist watching this movie. Emma Woodhouse's story has always been my favorite of
Austen's efforts, and I am always glad to see her work brought to the screen. I was VERY pleased with this film.
Casting was well done.  Northam provides a sturdy, but not overly-stern, Knightley, and Paltrow does an amazing job of convincing us that she is, indeed, British in her portrayal of Emma.  Her accent is nearly flawless, and I felt that she truly captured the personality of Austen's most spoiled heroine.  The sets and lighting are bright, airy, and perfectly suited to the comedic approach taken by this particular director.  The scenes are edited just brilliantly.  Each scene flows seamlessly from one to another, and the pace of the plot runs along just perfectly.  It moves fast enough to keep everyone interested and slowly enough to make sure that everyone has enough time to absorb what's going on.
The criticism I've heard most often is that the film really only touches on the Jane Fairfax/Frank Churchill subplot for the briefest of moments.  I did not find that to be injurious to the film.  It's plain, while watching this version, that the director wanted to keep the story light and funny.  Adding Jane and Frank's saga would have done two things:  First, it would have seriously darkened and dramatized the bouncy and bright atmosphere of the entire film.  Second, it would have taken the spotlight off of Emma Woodhouse as the focus of the story.  I felt that, given the abbreviated length of time that a movie has in which to communicate a story...the omission of Frank &amp; Jane's affair was a wise choice.
The second criticism I've heard of the film is that it's just too clean and "pretty" to be accurately representative of Regency England.  Again...this didn't bother me.  The focus of this film is NOT to be true to history.  It is not a Regency documentary.  It is a fun and aesthetically pleasing depiction of Emma Woodhouse and her friends.  It's romantic, funny, charming, and very very pretty to look at.
I loved it.