First of all ill explain a few things:
I stumbled upon the dubbed version of this film by accident which i found the dubbing completely horrible. About 10 minutes into it i gave up and went on to search for it's original language with subtitles.
I found me a copy and saw it was a film shot in my home country's language of Spanish which was a big bonus for me.
Now i never seen Quarantine before and although i learned that Q was the American remake i still decided to watch REC first.

Let me say that there was prolly a few boring moments in the first 10 or 15 minutes of the film but after that i was locked and glued to my TV. Ive seen many horror films since the 60s and this one blew me the heck away!
Aside from the normal beginning there was not one single minute of boring or terror filled moments. The eerie and frightening atmosphere of the surroundings had a real feeling especially with the amateur camera work.
You know the rest if you read the other reviews.

From reading the reviews i suspect that most people who submitted a bad or unsatisfied low rating review have watched this film dubbed or at least with subtitles.
Now i have watched all versions and the dubbed version is absolutely horrible! It really kills this film period.
For those who didn't like watching it subtitles then you have a legit beef but there is nothing compared to this unless you understand Spanish. It really adds a whole new light to the film since reading subtitles (which isn't really that bad) is still slightly distraction and still not very accurate in translation.

Now we move on to the remake Quarantine.
Being a heavy movie fanatic for decades i can honestly say that they should of never made a remake and rather should of made a better dubbed version with the sounds and everything better emulated.
Now Quarantine was great but compared to REC it doesn't even come close. Did they really have to remake it almost shot by shot (especially with the same actors we always see becomes a huge bore)?
This is why i believe some rate down this film and say either Quarantine was better or the same since the remake is in English with no horrible dubbing to subtitles to read.

REC1 coupled with REC2 is like 28 days later, blair witch and paranormal activity with a touch of The Exorcist combined.

Now in my top 10 all time favorites.