This is Stanley Kubrick's final film and probably the most misunderstood masterpiece. And the only reason why I call this film a masterpiece is because it is a very personal film. Kubrick sure has done very iconic films throughout his career, including "A Clockwork Orange", "Dr. Strangelove", "The Shining", and "2001: Space Odyssey". They are, without a doubt, masterfully shot and very iconic to this day. So there is nothing remotely bad about what he did throughout his filmmaking career. However, this film is a very personal film and I'd even put this up there with "The Killing", Kubrick's debut film as my personal favorites. I love Kubrick's other films and they indeed are all masterpieces, but Eyes Wide Shut was something on a whole another level.

The film is very complex, besides the basic plot that it is given to you. It is about a couple in New York City undergoes a frustration about their sexual life. They still are a loving couple, and they clearly love each other but Dr. William Harford, played by Tom Cruise, experiences a very strange world of sex. He discovers an underground cult who are there to enjoy the most psychedelic-ish sexual experience.

And that is the main key to the film: it really does have a psychedelic feel to the whole film. It is definitely NOT a film such as Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, per say, as far as the way it is shot and feel like you're on psychedelics, but it is definitely HYPNOTIC. The film is very slow-paced, just like his other films, yet very haunting and hypnotic. And the film has got so much deep meaning behind it, it's not just a one-time view type of film. I think you can literally dissect every parts of the film and interpret them. And I think that is what has to be done to really appreciate this film: viewing it multiple times.

Many people hate this film, but I think this is probably Kubrick utmost work, sometimes even past his iconic films. But that is only because it's a very personal piece and I feel like when an artist reaches his very in-depth emotion, they create more of a personal work rather than a flashy and presentable type of work that people would thoroughly enjoy. I am not putting down any of his other works. Like I said before, I enjoy all his films, it's just that if I had to pick out a film very personal and very endearing to me, I'd have to put this one on top above every films he did before.

A misunderstood masterpiece is something I have to keep repeating, but try to always remember that no dream is ever just a dream. Experiencing this film is just not another film experience, but rather more of a deep and meaningful film.