Even though 2010 doesn't even approach the artistry, symbolism, or suspense of 2001, it's a great sci-fi movie by any other standard. The acting, camera work, and storyline are all top-notch. I appreciated how they used unique camera angles and sparser, more enigmatic dialogue at the beginning of the film. This helped to capture some of the atmosphere of 2001,  before they eased into the more "conventional movie" feeling that characterizes the rest of 2010. I really enjoyed most of this movie, and the scenes with the abandoned Discovery are particularly suspenseful and effective. BUT... 
The movie shouldn't have tried so hard to tie up the loose ends that 2001 left (I admit I have never read the book, so I don't know how much of this was up to the director). An example of this is the mysterious fate of David Bowman. In the end of the first film, we watch Dave go through an enlightening transformation that transcends time, space, life, and death, in the dreamlike final sequence. By contrast, in 2010, Dave pops up on TV screens, interacts with people, and talks to HAL. That seems a little cheesy, given the mysticism of his original transformation in 2001. Even worse is the scene where Floyd is talking to an apparition of Dave, who cycles back and forth from a middle-aged man, to an older man, to a very old man, and back again. It seems almost like they missed the point of Dave's transformation in 2001--there was meaning behind his rapid aging in the original. He wasn't just randomly jumping around from age to age. 
Also, the scene where HAL becomes a "good guy" seemed more than a little sappy. To me, the point of HAL in 2001 was to show how we can go too far with advancing our technology, how we can become too enamored with our own achievements, and how creating a practically living machine to serve us was crossing the line. This suggestion was underscored by HAL's dazed singing, "I'm--half-crazy---crazy in love with you---" as he was disconnected. Explaining and over-simplifying HAL's insanity undermines all that symbolism, and so does turning him into a "good guy." Or maybe I just like darker movies? 
Finally, while there were some things that were explained too much, there were other elements that weren't explained enough. I'm going to talk about the ending here, which I assume is O.K. because this movie is 20 years old, but if you haven't seen it, I might spoil it here so read at your own risk. The part at the end, where Jupiter is turned into a star, is simply not explained enough. I'm probably being a little bit of a science snob, but there is no way that Jupiter's moons could exist a few thousand miles from a star without being destroyed. And, for that matter, why weren't they destroyed in the blast that consumed the Discovery? More perplexing, how could life on Earth still be normal (i.e., not fried) with a second Sun in our system? Either way, the ending is too scientifically flawed (and trust me, I'm no scientist) for the viewer to suspend belief.  
To sum it up, I still think this film is well worth buying. The first 2/3 is fantastic. It doesn't try too hard to emulate 2001, but it moves into its technological-suspense-thriller mode gradually and seamlessly, so it doesn't feel inappropriate or out of sync with the original. It isn't until the last 1/3 of the movie that things start to go awry. And when they do, it's especially disappointing because the rest of it is so great! I am now very interested in reading 2010 to see if the ending was really what Arthur C. Clarke had in mind...