There has been a feeling among fans of Star Trek movies that the even-numbered movies have been much better than the odd-numbered ones.  While all of them have been fun to watch, this theory had been more or less true until the 9th movie, "Star Trek: Insurrection", which broke the theory with a great movie.  "Star Trek: Nemesis" makes it 2 in a row.  
"Nemesis" comes after a 4 year drought in movies, but the wait was certainly worth it after watching it.  The movie gives Star Trek fans something they've wanted to see for a long time in Will Riker finally marrying Deanna Troi - a relationship that was re-kindled in "Insurrection".  The movie also gives fans a glimpse into the Romulan Empire, (especially the planet Remus, first mentioned in the original series) something that has not been explored as deeply as the Borg or Klingons.  The DVD version will be a bigger treat for the fans, as it includes many scenes (including all of actor's Steven Culp) that ended up on the cutting room floor prior to release.  These scenes add to the overall dimension of the story, which may have blunted some criticism of the movie, had they been left in.
That is where the movie for fans ends & the movie for the rest of the public begins.  You don't have to be a fan of Star Trek to enjoy the action scenes as the Enterprise fights for survival.  But the real heart of this movie boils down to a simple question that any of us can ask ourselves:  What kind of person would we be today, if we lived & grew up under completely different circumstances?  Would we act the same, think the same? Is each person born with a pre-determined destiny, that no matter what, they will turn out a certain way?  Or is it simply that each of us starts out like a lump of clay and is molded by the environment in which we are raised in??
The original Star Trek was popular because of its ability to be very thought-provoking, yet entertaining us at the same time.  "Star Trek: Nemesis" follows that same tradition, beautifully!!