The rock group The Doors were perfect fodder for Oliver Stone's powerful, vivid and radical imagination...to say nothing of his talent.  If you are reading this, you probably know the rough outline of The Doors and Jim Morrison, their mercurial lead singer.

So let's cut right to it: Val Kilmer IS Jim Morrison in this film.  It is one of the most impressive acting jobs ever put down on film and though he received critical acclaim for the performance, his performance was worth all of the Oscars (if anyone remembers any of them) handed out the year this film was released and should have been the CENTER of critical acclaim.

In addition, there is a strong supporting cast filling in the personages of Densmore, Manzarek and Krueger, Morrison's talented, but sometimes baffled bandmates.  But the star here is Stone.

Oliver Stone films are as close to an acid trip as you will ever get minus actually digesting the chemical.  From the opening monologue over the shadowy desert to the psychedelic highs of "Light My Fire" to the down and out, bloated and bearded Morrison of "Riders On The Storm" to the predictable outcome in Paris, Stone's amazing directorial talents shine and truly make this a film to experience, not just view.

Stone's on-the-edge style was tailor-made for a band that challenged it's listeners to "Break On Through".  The soundtrack rules, with a plethora of The Doors' classics (the underappreciated "Roadhouse Blues" among them), a little help from The Velvet Underground, some classical thrown in for good measure and Morrison's poetry (performed by Morrison).

There is a great cameo by Paul Rothchild, the band's producer and bit parts for Billy Idol, Bill Graham and Crispen Glover (as Andy Warhol and as creepy as ever).  The great Michael Madsen and Kathleen Quinlan (who plays a would-be witch and dances naked - worth the price of admission right there!) also shine.

But, again, it is Stone that makes this movie roll.  Does he lean too heavily on Morrison's dark side and over emphasize the wild side of his personality (Morrison also is said to have had a sweet, low key and compassionate side)?  Probably, but factual accuracy has never been Stone's forte' (reference "JFK").  But a rock group's daily comings and goings are not the stuff that crumbles nations and Stone can be forgiven here. I suggest finding the biggest screen you can and the best surround sound.  You will be transported and, when it's all over, you'll stagger off to bed....Stoned.