I rate this movie 4.75 out of 5.  One half a point is for Sedgwick being so hot... so that leaves it an 4.25 on the normal scale. (Sedgwick is very very hot)  But since I couldn't give it a 4.25 or a 4.75, I gave it a 5 to compensate for all the people who gave it a 3.  I just can't give it a 4.  In my opinion this is film... something beyond a movie.

The writing and acting for both Sedgwick's part, and her son (in the movie)'s part were both very very good.  Though some of the supporting parts are not up to the level of the lead parts, the plot was good, and movie absolutely held my attention.

This is a memorable movie in spite of being almost silly in parts... .  The movie is about Sedgwick's life as a child and about her life with her son.  The scenes with her parents in childhood are not done in a serious tone.  It's not comedy, but less than serious style.  I don't know the right word to describe it; but it probably disqualified the film from any kind of an award.  But that is the film.  Maybe I just didn't get that dimension.  Or maybe it just didn't work as visualized.

SPOILER ALERT!

She had a lot of empty pain and loss in her childhood.  She clung to the little bit of closeness that a neighbor provided, and one day, that neighbor was just gone.  That might not send everyone over the edge, but things like that absolutely do send some people over the edge.  She couldn't handle the separation from her son because she was already a mess.

MORE SPOILER ALERT:  DO NOT READ THIS UNLESS YOU HAVE ALREADY SEEN THE FILM !!!!!!!

The question is....  why was he on the ground?  Did he put himself there, or did she put him there.  I hate it when authors leave such things open, but I also love it.  If you don't like the final final scene, then perhaps you could reconsider it in the light of answer B.  Maybe she put him there.  And maybe he knows that (which he would).  So, as he looks back on his life, he knows his mother was a little nuts, but that his mother did love him deeply.  Good thing to know, to hang on to, in that painful aftermath.  Is that such a horrible or unrealistic ending?