Alex Gibney's riveting documentary is based on the acclaimed book "The Smartest Guys in the Room" by Bethany McLean and Peter Elkind. Chronicled is the corporate crime of the century by the movie following the inevitable toppling of the seventh-largest business operation in the U.S. Peter Coyote narrates this mind boggling odyssey of greed, arrogance, ethical malfeasance, and power plays through which Enron is changed from a properous natural gas pipeline company to a multinational mehemoth.

The major players in Enron's downfall could not be interviewed because they refused. But Gibney gives us lots of insights into their leadership style with news footage, corporate audio and video tapes, a comedy skit performed in front of employees, C-Span clips, and a catalog of other visual and recorded material.

Incredibly, even NOW Texan Kenneth Lay, the son of a Baptist preacher and close friend of President George W. Bush (affectionately referring to him as "Kenny Boy"), and Lay's hand-picked CEO, Jeffrey Skilling, deny any wrongdoing. One segment reveals that Skilling's favorite book is "The Selfish Gene." The Darwinian manifesto presents a dog-eat-dog version of human nature. Money is the only thing that counts for Skilling. His ruthlessness coming from such a philosophy is demonstrated throughout his predatory career. Skilling's "mark-to-market" accounting tricks worked long enough to give him the hubris to believe that anything was possible for Enron because they were "the smartest guys in the room."

The documentary reinacts the suicide of Enron executive Cliff Baxter; exposes the magic tricks of CFO Andy Fastow, who had made millions for the company through shell companies that covered up Enron's staggering debt. One of the deceptively quiet raiders, Lou Pai, a right-hand man for Skilling, was a mysterious figure with a penchant for strippers -- who cashed in his stock options and ran off with hundreds of millions of Enron's dollars.

Whistleblower Sherron Watkins' interviews illumioates the inner workings of Enron's corporate culture. Indeed, the callousness and heartlessness of these go-getters are revealed throughout the documentary. Yet the most depressing part is that the Enron scandal could only have happened by so many accountants, lawyers, Wall Street traders, investment bank analysts, and government regulators looking the other way for years. They enabled Enron's corporate corruption to grow. They were too compromised to speak the truth in the face of power. As a result, millions of ordinary investors were royally screwed, and thousands of Enron employees lost their life savings.