One night I found my two cats and a neighbor's third lying in a rough circle on the driveway, corralling a mole. Each cat seemed lost in his own thoughts, but whenever the mole attempted to capitalize on that distraction and escape the fence of bodies, the nearest feline would take a paw and sweep the rodent back to the center. The mole quivered, wishing, I'm sure, for its protective blanket of earth.

The next morning no carcass adorned the concrete. Had the well-fed felines shown mercy and allowed the mole to return to the safety of its burrow? Had they killed and eaten it? I'll never know--and I didn't think again about the incident until I saw "Kalifornia," a movie in which a pair of mole-humans embark on a cross-country car trip with a cat-man.

Brian Kessler (David Duchovny) and Carrie Laughlin (Michelle Forbes) live in Pittsburgh, where big-city sprawl creates maze-like paths. Both characters nest in the protection of social obligation; we learn, for example, that good-citizen Brian used a book advance in part to pay the rent. Their work requires that they tunnel into the human psyche: writer Brian explores the impulse to murder while photographer Carrie digs into issues of race and sex. They both compartmentalize these interests: Brian keeps his serial killer notes on labeled cassettes organized in plastic cases; Carrie boxes the provocative subjects of her photos not only with the framing of the camera lens but also by closing her portfolio. The two even look like moles, garbed in black, their sensitive eyes shielded with dark glasses, as they begin a tour of famous murder sites. Accustomed to defined physical and mental spaces, they are ill-prepared for the open-to-anything attitude of their ride-share companion Early Grayce (Brad Pitt), who recognizes no limits of morality, conscience, or law.

The dangerous road trip has thrilled audiences since Odysseus made his way home from Troy. A successful update needs to keep us terrified for the well-being of likable characters. To provoke our terror is Early. Unlike his traveling companions, the audience has witnessed his violence. We've seen a random killing of two people so that Early can procure a birthday present for his girlfriend Adele (Juliette Lewis)--an opportunistic grab of red high heels, the tapping of which will get neither the original nor new wearer safely home. We also know Early has murdered his landlord because, unlike Brian, when the rent is due, he doesn't meet his social obligation with a check.

Brian, the other male in the car, contributes to our misgivings. We can't look to him for leadership as he quickly develops a bro crush on Early after a night out at a redneck bar and the opportunity to shoot a pistol.

Sweet Adele provides excellent counterpoint as she sees only the good in our bad boy. And he has his moments of charm, such as when he buys Adele a cheap, pink camera so that she too can document the trip. Whether her naivet&eacute; is the result of low IQ or a defense mechanism to deal with a childhood gang rape, she spills a little sunshine into the darkening picture. We want Early to live up to the hero status she ascribes him--but we sat down to watch a thriller and suspect that he won't.

Carrie is too edgy, too dismissive, to be immediately likable. Her style, her photos, her tongue are all sharp, but her disappointment over a gallery rejection and her fondness for Brian, and later Adele, are softening. We have hope that she can save herself and the others as she alone senses danger. Unlike Brian and Adele, both busy in their own heads, Carrie has engaged the openness where Early thrives. She admits to Adele, for example, that she is both photographer and participant in her pictures--pictures that would inspire a Republican congressman to slash funding for the arts. When Carrie speculates that Early may have served time for murder, Brian explains that a parolee would not be allowed to leave the state. Brian cannot conceive of his traveling companion stepping outside of social restrictions. The more experienced Carrie, however, can, for she snaps back, "Maybe he wasn't allowed to leave the state. Did you ever stop to think about that?"

The four car occupants are perfectly cast and costumed. The whiskered, grimy Pitt has Early emerge through his skin, not his clothes, like a predator that has just rolled in antelope dung before approaching the herd. Duchovny makes Brian's adoration of Early believable because a trace of exploitable teenager lingers on his face. His ridiculous earrings and immature purchase of a convertible Continental indicate that, despite the intellectual acrobatics, Brian needs props to bolster his young man's insecurity. Lewis keeps Adele consistently childish so that even sex with Early resembles a gleeful four-year-old bouncing on a rocking horse. Athletic and imposing, Forbes can be unconvincing when Carrie needs to sound powerless, but we are glued to her steely eyes and cheer her aggression when, as the violence escalates, Carrie discovers claws of her own. More importantly, Carrie wears ass-kicking boots, not girly shoes, so we trust that she won't trip at an important moment.

We want the four of them to reach California, everyone alive and well, but then Carrie and Early catch the news bulletin of the man-hunt for Early, and 40 minutes of white-knuckle suspense ensues. Our own adrenalin pumping, we wonder if Early will deliver the death blow or if our mole-humans, traveling under the open sky, disconnected from their burrow-city, will evolve into creatures who discover in time the animal instincts they need to survive. It's a good ride.