This post responds to the review by Tuberacer (three stars) and some other commenters who have raised interesting criticisms of "The Third Man."

I disagree with those who have called this a "perfect" film, except to the extent that they mean its artistic satisfactions were perfect for them, which I can understand.  To say that it is a great film, howevever, it is not necessary to say that it is flawless.  Indeed, many great films have flaws, and a flawless film need not be great.  Greatness is, in part, the result of the scope of the artist's ambitions, and I believe Graham Greene's and Carol Reed's high ambitions were largely achieved.

First, regarding Tuberacer's problems with the plausibility of certain aspects of the film:  The partially lit sewers in the final scenes seems a little literalistic.  We have all seen scenes in other movies that take place in sewers or other subterranean urban locales, and they are always at least partially lit. Even subways have lights widely spaced in the tunnels as one can observe in many cities and many films. Whatever the actual facts regarding the Vienna sewers at the time in question, it seems reasonable to assume that sewers generally have some limited lighting in them to facilitate maintenance and repair, rather than being totally dark. The partial lighting in the Vienna sewer scenes show the existence of stairs, catwalks, valve wheels, pipes, and other features that would be difficult to negotiate and hard to find in total darkness, even with handheld lights. That the tunnels in the scenes are dim is illustrated by the command of a pursuing police captain, who, upon hearing a noise from a side tunnel, shouts to a subordinate "Licht!" thereby illuminating the fleeing Lime. Tuberacer's response to others' comments about the possibility of brief glimpses in the darkness as flashlights, matches, etc. are lit, is interesting. In my view, however, the imagery of the confused maze of dim or dark subterranean tunnels, suffused with stench as Callaway remarks, through which the characters chase, better captures the moral maze Lime creates for Holly, Anna, Callaway, and even himself: ducking into the sewers enabled him to elude Martins in an earlier scene, but in the end, he can only stretch his fingers through the grating to the air of the world above ground.

As for Callaway's failure to check on the identity of the dead man, which Tuberacer also notes, it raises a question.  It is not clear, however, when the British occupying authorities, as opposed to, say, the local police, became aware of the death -- whether it was before or after the burial that Martins attends. In the chaos of a divided city, occupied by the military of four nations, it seems less farfetched that the dead man could have been interred before the foreign authorities became aware of it. In any event, Callaway apparently had no reason to believe that the dead man was anyone other then Lime before Martins raised doubts.  In fact, the substituted dead man, Harbin, appears in a photo during Major Callaway's "magic lantern show" and somewhat resembles Welles as Lime, so the descriptions of Lime and the dead man were likely to have matched.

Of course, there are other questions. For example, why did Lime follow Martins to Anna's apartment and allow himself to be discovered, only to run away? Certainly, he had learned through the Baron and Dr. Winkle that Martins was asking questions, and may have wanted to see what Martins was up to. He was hiding, but was given away by the cat. I think a lot of these questions point to the film's view that these are flawed humans with painfully uncertain motives stabbing around in a dangerous, deceptive, and devastated environment.

Second, the thematic issues.  That the main characters are, largely, badly deluded people, as Tuberacer and others observe, is precisely the point. Lime's exhibits the grandiosity of the narcissist in his "cuckoo clock" speech, but the meta-point that the film makes is that such evil, grand or tawdry, is an inevitable part of the history of man in the world. Martins is intentionally drawn as naive, hence his occupation and "silly" name. I think Tuberacer is being unfair to Anna Schmidt, however, who, at one point responds to Martins's discoveries about Lime by saying (I'm going from memory as it's been a few years since I last saw the film) "A person doesn't change because you learn more about him. Harry wasn't just my lover and your friend -- he was Harry."

Tuberacer states both that Lime is "this smart looking guy" but also says he is "the most pathetic guy in Vienna." I think that gets at something. Many of the reviewers note the themes of truth and justice vs. love, friendship, and loyalty, and there are those, but Greene's work is never far from basic questions of good and evil, and Reed doubles down on that theme by packaging Lime's moral depravity in the person of Welles. We have no trouble spotting the seamy evil of the unctuous Baron Kurtz, the weaselly Dr. Winkel, or the brutal Mr. Popescu (I disagree with Tuberacer that Popescu is shrewd -- he is the muscle end of the conspiracy, of which Lime, as Callaway makes clear, is the leader and brains, and the "rewrite" was by Greene himself, not Reed). But when the light in the opposite building goes on, illuminating the street and revealing Welles in the doorway beneath Anna's apartment -- in what Martin Scorcese has called one of the most thrilling moments in film -- we are no more prepared to believe that Lime is responsible for the crimes Callaway has described than are Martins and Anna. With only about 15 minutes of screen time, in only ten of which he has any significant dialogue -- a borderline cameo as Tuberacer says -- Welles steals the show because of the dissonance between what we have been told of Lime and what we see: Welles, with all his dazzling charisma, charm, wit, good looks, and ironic smile. I can't think of another actor who could have carried off the role, retaining his pull on us even as the worst is revealed. Without Welles, the film fails. Indeed, it takes Callaway's "magic lantern show" to convince Martins, and us, that this irresistible character is a moral monster. Lime is a "charmer" in both senses of the word --a charismatic wit and a seducer, a deceiver -- he seduced Martins figuratively, and Anna literally, but he seduces both of them, and the audience, emotionally. In response to Martins's unsuccessful attempt to befriend her cat, Anna remarks "He only liked Harry," and the cat's attraction to Lime, as shown in the scene when Lime is first revealed in the doorway, reflects Lime's corresponding characteristics -- an amoral creature, he has no real connection with anyone. On the Ferris wheel, those moving below are "dots" whose only value to Lime are twenty thousand pounds each if they "stopped moving forever." Martins tells Callaway he met Lime "back in school. I was never so lonesome in my life until he showed up." Martins calls Lime the "best friend I ever had," yet says in the same breath that he hadn't seen him since 1939 and only "occasionally" before that. At one point, Martins makes a Freudian slip, saying to Callaway, "I guess nobody really knew Harry like he did ... like I did." Lime radiates bonhomie and captures others by warming them with his counterfeit intimacy and enthusiasm. Martins says to Callaway "We never did much. He just made things . . . fun."

During the Ferris wheel ride, Lime attempts to manipulate Martins, attempting one then another of a repertoire of gambits -- appeals to friendship and "old times," appeals for sympathy, thinly veiled threats, joviality -- attempting to bring Martins around. At the end of their meeting at the Ferris wheel, Lime even has ready a facile historical comparison with which to further confuse Martins. To Tuberacer: Of course it's a false analogy. In modern jargon, Lime is a sociopath, of the type to which the weak, the lonely, the naive, the self-pitying, and the poorly grounded give their souls, just as had been shown yet again in the then all-too-recent war. Lime's comparison of himself with the Borgias is transparent nonsense -- it's Lime's own delusion -- but it is the type of sleight of hand that, in combination with his indefatiguable good spirits and boyish enthusiasm, has always carried all before it for Harry, and by which he has always been able to keep the loyalty of those he needed. Tuberacer asks:  Why is "this smart-looking guy" even in Vienna? For the same reason a vulture finds a carcass.

By the end of the film no one has come through looking good, except perhaps the childlike Paine, Callaway's aide, who is killed by Lime. Even Callaway turns over Anna's false passport to his Soviet counterpart a little too indifferently for my taste, knowing what her fate will be. The war, in which good triumphed over evil, has, nonetheless, inured everyone to evil, especially in so attractive a form as Lime. Everyone remains as deluded as they were at the beginning.  As Martins says in the first line of the opening voice-over, "I never knew the Vienna of the Strauss waltzes." Yes, it is indeed gone.

Another reviewer said he wished that Martins and Anna had gotten together at the end. But, that long, achingly sad, final shot, after the second, real, burial of Lime -- when Martins gets out of Callaway's jeep and waits for Anna, who, walking down the cold, bleak road lined with pollarded trees, passes him (and the camera) without a glance -- reinforces the thematic tensions of the film: Having been compromised in loyally defending Lime, Martins is no less compromised in having betrayed him, even despite having ultimately accepted the responsibility of eliminating Lime himself in a kind of coup de grace. Moreover, Martins's acquired "virtue" in betraying Lime does not win him Anna. How could it? Martins's inadequacies are unchanged for her -- whatever Lime was, her life is empty without him. Friendship and loyalty may require the ballast of a shared morality. Love need not be so bound.

Furthermore, Tuberacer: Yes, the film is funny, as well as serious, as well as tragic. Greene and Reed cross the tightrope of morality balancing sadness, pain, and loss with comedy, sometimes bittersweet, sometimes farcical. The comedy generally comes at Martins's expense -- having a literary fan in Paine, being mistaken for a serious writer by Mr. Crabbin, the Cultural Reeducation Society promoter -- undercutting his over-earnest posturing. Just as the dim illumination of the sewer actually heightens its darkness and imprenetrable menace, the comedic elements of the film heighten the sorrow, as when Anna laughs at a memory of Lime, but then deflects Martins's advice that she ought to laugh more often with the response, "There isn't enough for two laughs."

As for the zither, which many reviewers found intrusive or distracting: I think it adds to the film in a way that may be unique in films. It has a presence and a sound that suffuses the film with an old-world exoticism. The sound is like something we have never heard before that yet conveys something familiar, as if a piece of music perfectly captured the feel of the street upon which one lived as a child. The principal theme music itself is adaptive to the film, with a strolling initial theme, a insistive, percussive second part, and a lyrical third section. The zither's "fills" at various dramatic points are like some unearthly Greek chorus. In any event, it's not "background" music -- it adds an effect and I like it for that.

"The Third Man" is not a great film because it's everyone's cup of tea. It is idle to compare it to "The Big Sleep," as Tuberacer does. There is no Philip Marlowe whose viewpoint (and voice-over) help to channel our understanding and reactions. There is no "hero" to pull for. As Lime tells Martins, "Oh, Holly, you and I aren't heroes. The world doesn't make any heroes outside of your stories." The film's protagonist is feckless and maudlin, the heroine is desolate and inconsolable, and the villain is fascinating and dynamic. There is no hope for any of them. No one "prevails." The "case" isn't "solved." In drawing upon the film, one is left to one's own orientation and bearings in a moral spacewalk. It is a great film because, from the struggles of a handful of obscure people in a ruined city in the wake of war, it presents a rueful view of the sorrows, contradictions, and tragedy of human struggles and obligations. As Calloway tells Martins, "Death's at the bottom of everything, Martins. Leave death to the professionals."