In all honesty, I'm at something of a loss as to the response this movie seems to elicit in the average viewer --specifically, all the allusions to Hitchcock/_Psycho_.  To blithely characterize the movie as "creepy" or Sy Parrish as "psychopathic" seems wholly inaccurate, if not superficial.
Sy isn't twisted or horrific (like, say, Hannibal Lechter of _Silence of the Lambs_).  To me, at any rate, Sy is an intensely pathetic figure--not in the current sense of "wretched," but in the original sense of "evoking pathos" (as in Tchaikovsky's _Pathetique_ Sympthony, the Sixth).  
Sy is an individual whose soul has been ravaged--and as a child, no less, and in one of the most monstrous ways imaginable.  Miraculously, he hasn't become a soulless, apathetic figure, one who has lost the ability to give love or to be in need of it.  Nor has he become a monster himself, falling into the same perversions as his parent(s).  His methodologies are the problem, not his motives; he acts out of what seems to be a genuine love for his "adopted" family, the Yorkins.  His loneliness and pain have driven him to the point of obsession--and therein lies his tragic flaw.  But is it only his flaw, or is it also a reflection on American culture in some sense?  
For those willing to reflect a bit more deeply, Sy's story is as much an indictment of American materialism and its unthinking, image-obsessed culture.  How many lonely, hurting souls are there who hunger for real love and fellowship, for genuine "I-Thou" relations, only to find themselves scorned and marginalized by a culture that prefers to function on the superficial and/or self-serving level of the "I-It" relation?  How many people lead lives that could be characterized by the ancient Hebraic proverb, "A satisfied soul loathes the honeycomb, but to a starving soul any bitter thing is sweet"--?
A disturbing movie, yes; profoundly so.  But not for the reasons generally given.  The true horror is only portrayed indirectly: The tragedy of a soul reduced to the status of an "It," first as a child, then as an adult.
An excellent movie, intensely thought provoking and poignant; highly recommended.