Well, when a movie staring Will Smith makes it big at the box office, chances are, you're gonna see a sequel. And, nearly ten years after the original Bad Boys made Will Smith an action star, Smith, Martin Lawrence, and director Micheal Bay team up again to bring Bad Boys II. The first was a breath of fresh air into the buddy cop genre, and a hoot and half thanks to Smith's and Lawrence's on-screen chemistry. The second one, while being somewhat overblown (it's Micheal Bay; what do you expect?), it still fun, in the same way, and it never feels too tired.
Bad Boys II showcases a plot that is just as ludicrous as it's predecessor's, but that doesn't matter. It's not the story of a drug dealer smuggling coke in dead bodies that make the audience sit through the next 139 minutes, but the fact that we know what to expect from Micheal Bay. Bay's movies aren't about plot or reality; they're about spectacle with a shot of adrenaline and a dash of the funny. Sure, it's unrealistic, but where's the fun in a realistic action movie?
Mike (Smith) and Marcus (Lawrence), now partners for fourteen years, are getting older. No, they're not "too old for this ****" but they're starting to feel tired. Marcus is taking anger management classes, which provides some great laughs, and Mike is dating Marcus's sister, only, Marcus doesn't know. The character clashing isn't quite as good as it was in the first film where they were forced to switch identities, but it's still some solid character to build the action around. And boy, does this movie have action.
Bay has a style about his movies, love it or hate it, but it makes for some exciting chases and some hectic gunfights. Bullets zing along with the kind of banter you'd expect from the characters, only, thanks to age and experience, their tensions have changed. You get the feeling that there could be real problems with this pair, which makes you want to sit through some of the more yawny bits (Oh look! It's another Drug Lord adversary!), and watch the characters all the way to the end of the film. And this pays off, especially when, about three-fourths of the way through the film, Marcus's sister gets kidnapped, and things get personal.
In Bad Boys II, it's nice to see that there's still a few films that aren't going to hang back when it comes to some old-fashioned pyrotechnics. The original Bad Boys was a case study in entertaining popcorn films, and the second is no different. It's not as fresh (c'mon, it's been ten years), but it's still fun to watch these cops do their thing. Hang on, 'cause the Bad Boys are back. Watcha gonna do?