I want to start off, by saying this is a wonderful conclusion to the toy story trilogy.

I picked up the four disc set from walmart today for $25.  I think my favorite stories by pixar would be the toy story movies, a bug's life finding nemo, and wall.e  I like them all, but those are the highlights for me.  I really liked the situations the beloved characters were put into and had to solve.  The story of Lotso, and his attitude reminded me of Jessie and prospector from toy story 2..  The quality of the transfer was excellent! Though currently I don't own a surround system compatible with blu-ray disc.  Right now it's not a big priority though even in stereo the audio sounds great, the picture is clear and crisp, good contrast good clarity.  Ken and Barbie was a classic touch as well, Barbie was introduced into the bunch in #2 and #3 gets Kent.  The one Character I wondered about though, was Bo Peep, everyone else was in the movie except her.  Was this mainly because she didn't belong to Andy?

The ending was extremely touching as well.  I liked woody's heart change and in his own way, encouraged Andy to donate the toys to Bonnie. I like how they all ended up together at the end with a new care taker who loves toys.

A bit off topic here, but Some of the bad movie reviews i Read on here seem like people just spouting off,  I have an A.S. in broadcast, and while live tv and film/animation differ many of the essential principles are the same.  So I look at a movie or show with a professional prospective and unbiased attitude,  I want to see if the producer and director's take on the story can be understood without hinting, basically how well can they tell a story, One of the most important elements in the industry.  If there is no story flash video and effects mean nothing.

Pixar has always been able to tell a good story, so has Walt Disney, true some better then others, but I haven't seen a movie I haven't liked or understood after watching it a couple times.  That's also a good point to make, don't expect to get everything the first time around in a movie or show, There are details always missed.

BTW I missed this in the theater, so i never saw it in 3D, but 3D isn't a major thing for me right now either.