There was a lot I had in mind, in terms of expectations, as to what this movie could offer in beauty and landmark expression. I believe Film as a medium is more or less a tool for the artist and all artists (actors, musicians, etc.) to create sincere art. What I found in "Enter the Void" was not what I expected and I was not pleased by this at all.

There are a ton of experimental films, films about drugs, films about Tibetan Buddhism, and films about death that are less cohesive and still give the viewer/audience something to walk away with. I feel as though in some ways, "Enter the Void" was an exploitation of the audience as dumb. Movies like "The Tree of Life," "Pi," "Waking Life," "Pulp Fiction," even "Fight Club," work with a non-linear or experimental form of media to create their overall "point" as a piece of art. What I found in "Enter the Void" was excessive use of genitalia, flashing lights, hovering cameras, and flat characters to create a "point" that entering the void just happens and can happen at any time. I won't spoil anything, but the excesses of sex at the end of the movie don't really provide except for in that semi-symbolic way that some scenes do in other movies.

Most of the scenes in this movie repeat to the point of nausea, and it's a wonder why anyone would sit through the same four scenes over and over and over again. There is a car crash which is repeatedly used as a crutch for the two "main" characters, which really doesn't add to their character as much as it does to the plot. Those two characters whose parents die end up becoming 1) a drug addict and 2) a stripper. The characters in this movie seem victimized by life and in a way, don't provide anything for the "Void" in terms of meaning.

What I'm trying to say is that there is a repetition in this movie that makes you feel stupid: gratuitous sex that's supposed to be artsy because the genitalia is glowing (I'd frankly rather watch an artistically made piece of pornography); glorified, short-term drug use that really doesn't do anything for drug use or the expansion of consciousness (movies like "Trainspotting" do a much better job, even if they don't intend to); finally, pseudo-philosophy as well as pseudo-spiritualism (I don't get the point if you're taking both reason and faith out of the film) that comes probably unintended from the lack of dialogue and blandness of the characters.

It is certainly worth testing the waters on, but I frankly don't like the film. If you're absolutely set on watching it, go ahead, but be prepared to understand where it is going. There isn't any wonder about the film. Everything is given away after the first hour. Then you are left vegetating in front of the screen. It seems to be one of those postmodern statements about the audience, how we're willing to watch anything as long as it is done differently. I expect more from this medium and not to be considered so simple to please.