I stumbled across Mogamabo at the library before I got a chance to see Red Dust, which I had heard was excellent. The cover art riveted me, and I looked forward to seeing Ava Gardner as the smoldering temptress. Unfortunately, Gardner's character came across as sniveling and whiney. She appears to be immediately attracted to Clark Gable's character, but when he doesn't return her interest she becomes pouty and sullen. At least twice she ran away to cry, which would have been more understandable if she and Gable's character had ever communicated interest. I just wanted to shake her and say, "You're a beautiful woman. Tons of men would want you. Move on!" Her catty comments and continual attempts to get attention made her character reek of desperation and was quite unbecoming. She was not the strong female character that I am used to seeing in other classic movies. On top of that, I finally saw Red Dust, and there is just no comparison. Gardner does not hold a candle to Jean Harlow in this movie.

Then there is Grace Kelly's character. She is plain, and her waffling is annoying. She is just... boring. She even looked boring. In her other movies, I've found her quite beautiful, but in this movie she looked a little washed-out. Overall, I couldn't really tell why Gable's character would want either of these women.

On a more positive note, I enjoyed Gable's performance. It was interesting to compare to his earlier work in Red Dust. He had a youthful attractiveness in Red Dust that made it easy to see how he would be able to win over the women, and in Mogambo he seems to bring a sense of maturity to the role that changes the tone somewhat. Both performances were good. Additionally, the African scenery was beautiful.

All in all, I would recommend seeing Red Dust above Mogambo, but this is not the review of a Red Dust fanatic poo-pooing the remake; these were the impressions I had before seeing Red Dust, and seeing that movie only confirmed it. Mogambo is alright, but don't expect the best performances from Gardner and Kelly.