$27.99 may seem like a good price for 39 episodes of a terrific show like this, but never forget that if it sounds too good to be true - it usually is.  I've been looking forward to this show being released on DVD for such a long time, but not like this.  Not on two-sided discs that freeze up constantly, and not with crucial footage cut out.  And, though less importantly, not with a dearth of special features.  Such a schlocky presentation is more worthy of a show like "Britney and Kevin: Chaotic," not a classic gem like "Alfred Hitchcock Presents."  Some people still seem to think this set is a bargain.  Pleather shoes may seem like a bargain, since they're low-priced.  The problem is, they're still pleather.  I for one demand quality and am willing to pay for it.  They could have done a much better job restoring the show and transferring it onto discs of higher quality.  $27.99 is no bargain when the product is so poorly made.  I've ordered this disc set but I'm returning it for a refund.  I might rent it sometime since the episodes are mostly intact except for some of Hitchcock's concluding remarks, but I don't want to pay to own this show until they get it right.  It is a major affront to Hitchcock and his fans to slaughter his show this way.  Fans of other classic oldie shows such as "The Twilight Zone" or "I Love Lucy" are willing to pay more for high-quality DVD sets of those shows, and I'm sure fans of "AHP" are no different.  I hope they will make improvements to this release sometime in the future.  I want uncut episodes!

  I would give five stars for the show itself, which is absolutely brilliant, but since I'm rating this item as a product, I give it only one.

P.S. I own the book "The Alfred Hitchcock Presents Companion," which includes summaries of each episode Hitchcock's fully transcribed monologues from each show. The book is poorly written, has many spelling errors, and many times where the writer clearly heard the dialogue wrong in his transcriptions, but it is a least a good companion, as it purports to be, to the show. I've watched (Netflixed, not bought) the first four seasons on DVD, and can confirm that most of Hitchcock's pre-commercial messages have been cut from the DVDs (which sucks, because I'm certain they were included when the show used to air on TVLand). It might seem unnecessary, since obviously there are no ads on the DVDs, but it would still have been nice since Hitch always had some delightfuly devilish new way to mock the hands that fed him, i.e his sponsors (it was cool when they showed these on TVLand because they always aired an old-timey ad directly after these remarks). Still a great show and fun to watch, but no way I will purchase rather than rent if all these gems have been discarded.