This was the first interactive PPV in the WWE.  The fans voted online to determine opponents, match types, and stipulations.  It was a good idea, and ended up being a pretty decent PPV, although it could have been maybe a little better.

1. Shelton Benjamin vs. Chris Jericho (Intercontinental Title)

The fans chose Jericho's opponent for the match.  Good way to kick off the show, although it was a little unfortunate that the crowd was pretty much out of the match.  Good match.  It started a little slow, but ended strong.  Good finish, with a lot of reversals and near falls.  Personally, I thought this was the best match of the night.  (8/10)

2. Trish Stratus vs. Stacy Keibler vs. Jazz vs. Victoria vs. Molly Holly vs. Gail Kim vs. Nidia (Women's Title/Battle Royal)

The fans got to decide which outfit the ladies would were in this match.  They chose the school girl outfits.  Actually, this was not a bad Battle Royal.  Good performance by the women.  (6.5/10)

3. Gene Snitzky vs. Kane (Steel Chain Match)

This was the match in which the fans chose the weapon the two would use.  I thought Snitzky would be terrible, but he put forth a really good effort.  The match was a little slow, but pretty brutal.  Amazing spot when Snitzky jumps off the second rope and steps on the chair that was across Kane's neck.  Could not believe it.  (7.5/10)

4. Eugene vs. Eric Bischoff (Loser Loses Hair)

The fans got to choose the stipulation in the match.  Very short match, but the aftermath is pretty long, but very funny.  Coach and Vince make appearances in the match.  (6.5/10)

5. Chris Benoit & Edge vs. La Resistance (World Tag Titles)

The two that lost the voting for the World Heavyweight Title would be teamed together for this match, Edge and Benoit.  Very, very, very slow and boring match that really dragged on.  It was way too predictable on what would happen in the match, although the outcome was not predictable.  Exciting, emotional ending.  (6/10)

6. Carmella vs. Christy (Pillow Fight)

The fans got to choose the match type for this one.  It actually took longer for the two to change, than the actual match itself.  Very hot match.  (5.5/10)

7. Triple H vs. Shawn Michaels (World Heavyweight Title)

The fans chose H's opponent for this match.  HBK was legitimetley hurt in this match.  He put on a very inspiring effort.  He had to be in a lot of pain during the match.  Triple H has to be given credit for doing a good job in working with his injured foe.  I thought the ending was once again way too predictable.  Batista and Edge make appearances.  This is given a higher score, not because of the quality of the match, but because of HBK's effort.  (8/10)

8. Randy Orton vs. Ric Flair (Steel Cage Match)

Again, the fans got to choose the match type here.  About what would be expected from a Flair cage match.  Kind of slow, but very exciting and bloody.  Good finish.  Flair and Orton both put on a good performance.  (8/10)

Good PPV.  I think it is up in the air on wheter to pick this one up or not.  The matches are good, but not the best.  But, there were a lot of shockers and good storyline set ups in this PPV.  Which is something the WWE has not really been doing at their PPV's.

Overall Rating:  7.5/10