BEAUTIFUL AND DEADLY

I love this film. For me as a viewer of this film , this movie has given Frank Langella god - like powers as an actor. Understandeably , that means bad news for big government and big bussiness who don't like people to have any ideas about the possibility of acquiering god - like powers as a result of encountering totally unforseeable events whom they have no control over. The film deals with three versions of Earth as they exist seperately and yet fully connected with each other in the year 1976. The film provides the ultimate counterargument against why people like to live in little boxes - and shatters any potential box the senses of it's viewer may have encountered in their lives , including and most specifically the box of conspiracy reality. Since I am very used to have my now circle - shaped world - views shattered by the minute , I welcomed this film so much that I watched it two times. The film portrays the possibility that humanity has evolved into a very powerful series of advanced species and civilizations which can possess such powers as the ability to move themselves between planets in the form of lightning. People think it's impossible but H.G.Wells encountered this concept of travel in the form of lightning when he wrote the War of the Worlds. In the War of the Worlds the Martians visited the Earth in the form of lightning as it was seen by Steven Spielberg. Spielberg tried unsuccessfully due to his political views to present his extraterrestrial visitors in a convincing manner but Morgan Freeman saved the day and for me , sort of led the team on that one. In the Box , Frank Langella proves ultimately his enormous success as an actor since his seriously , albeit totally unintentionally , shamanistic approax to interpreting Richard Nixon in the film Nixon /Frost. That was a movie I loved to watch as well. I have watched several other Frank Langella films but until this time I realized that he is seriously interested in playing in only really good movies. So this film will be a kind of Clockwork Orange like cult classic after about 10 years from now. It has already generated some highly politically incorrect ideas on travel in the minds of many. Imagine how easy it'd be once having perfected the technology and skills to create wormholes by the use of your mind and to use them to travel between dimensions in the form of lightning. On the outside you appear as lightning but in front of you is a wormhole. Goodness knows how many visitors from elsewhere may have visited this planet in such a manner. Imagine how easy it'd be for them to possess someone really aware , such as quite terrifyingly , mr. Langella or myself , and use our bodies and ourselves as vehicles without our knowledge. I have a far more terrifying theory as to how such a communication could take place - for example , astrally just as Langella tries to portray somewhere in the middle of the film. 1976 has a particularly significant importance from a symbolic perspective for me for some reason. I have often used this year to express myself artistically to get more people to read my other internet apart from amazon.com views and pay some attention to my art in my country and occasionally to make fun out of new age thought and maoism.
What if we could be struck not only by physical lightning such as that portrayed in this film but astral lightning? That'd be seriously politically incorrect for the one or two star reviewers of this film. But perhaps moderate for the three star reviewers. We five star reviewers love and honour and appreciate this movie , Langella for who he is , and Cameron Diaz for who she is , and the director , producers and other actors for who they are , without giving a damn about the consequences. We have no idea as to exactly why we love films like the Box , Solaris , etc. , we just do. Thus , we operate outside of the mainstream to the one and two star reviewers , learn from them , move about our bussiness numinously , and continue to strive toward greatness in the pursuit of our limitless potential. I love how the director of this movie and the Donnie Darko plays with water. I have never seen anybody do it as well as he does since Leonardo Da Vinci. Leonardo would have loved to watch his films. Interestingly like in Leonardo's works , water often has a somewhat apocalyptic message to tell in the film , and also very beautiful - beautiful and deadly. If you who are reading this view happen to be an nsa employee , do not try this at home - if you do , consider yourself warned!! That was of course a joke by the way. Thank you so much , Langella , Diaz and all for having brought me the opportunity to see this film. Without you , I would never have!! Hitchcock would have loved the Box. I wonder if there'll be a sequel in where the main character chooses to destroy the box and present it to Stewart in ruins. Stewart's gonna be soo mad.........or not since he likes mystery.