I HAVE to write about this movie. You do not know how amazing this movie is if you haven't seen it. Even if you're not a fan of ABBA, you should watch this movie. It teaches you about life. It teaches you the lesson of what you really want may not make you happy in the long run. It teaches you about friendships. And it teaches you about being yourself and not being ashamed. Let me talk about the last two for a little bit. I will not give away as much of the plot as I can.

Near the beginning, Muriel's life sucks. I'm not going to lie. She was a loner who, when felt depressed, locked herself in her room listening to ABBA songs. And then she meets Rhonda, suddenly her world comes alive. One instance that I love is right after Rhonda has therapy for her leg tumor and doesn't feel the need to be alive. Muriel says this in response to it Rhonda's feeling useless later on in the movie, after "an incident" happened(paraphrased):

"When I was back home in Porpoise Spit, I used to sit in my room and listen to ABBA records. Sometimes I would be in there all day, just to make my life seem any good. But since I have met you, I have not listened to one ABBA record. That's because now, my life is just as good as an ABBA song. My life is like Dancing Queen!"

This quote clearly shows how much her life had changed when she met a true friend.

In one scene just after Muriel meets Rhonda, they enter a karaoke contest, lip syncing "Waterloo" by ABBA. They have costumes, choreography, the works. When you watch Muriel perform, she is very small in her actions from being embarassed. But in about half of the song, you see her to visably relax and become more confident about being on stage. This clearly shows that she suddenly realised it was OK to be herself. Elisabeth Vincentelli, who wrote a book review of the classic album ABBA: Gold, ties this scene with the success of the compilation at the end of the book:

"It epitomizes a transition from desperately uncool to popular, but it also affirms loudly and clearly that it's okay to be a dork, a geek, a freak, a queer-you don't have to abide to commonly accepted definitions of hipness to be happy. There are worse ways to define a classic album."

Very well put! This should be a movie to apply to one's life who feels the same way as Muriel once did.

This may have made it sound like a sappy movie, which it is, but it also has lots of comedy. There are some great quotes, like Rhonda's response to her tumor: "So, how'd I get it? It's not from having too much sex, is it?" Another reason to go rent or buy the movie!