After watching the epic-ness that was the first season, and previously reviewing it on Amazon, Season 2 earned 4 fours. Why? Mainly because they deviated from the book. As a long time book fan, it was quite surprising to see the writers of Game of Thrones remove themselves a little bit from the plot of the book; it was, at times, annoying, yet not all that unpleasant. The fact that George R. R. Martin continues to be consulted on his magnum-opus-turned-hit-TV show is a redeeming factor. I mean, who else would you ask for approval? Martin also wrote the last two episodes, which were arguably the best two episodes of the season.

As with the first Season, the visuals were absolutely, positively stunning. Filming sets in Croatia and Ireland were extremely well done, and though I was never quite as enamored with TV Quarth's lack of book-inspired opulence, the shots of the surrounding landscape were magnificent. The HBO team certainly kept up with the great work they did on filming locations. I was also impressed in regards to the costumes and props incorporated into the show. The grit, dirt, and grime added an element of authenticity to the medieval feel of the books.

My biggest gripe with the second season was the lack of characters that were introduced in the book but not the show. *SPOILERS* Where were Jojen and Meera, the crannogmen of Greywater Watch? Did the writers make a mistake by choosing to include them later? Wtf is going on with the girl from Volantis (Jeyne Westerling in disguise?) *SPOILERS*

There are a plethora of things to love about Season 2, though, despite my petty complaints.

Peter Dinklage can do no wrong - Because Peter Dinklage. He has made the role of Tyrion his own. If by some unfortunate, hypothetical incident Peter Dinklage is unable to act as Tyrion, no one, and I mean NO ONE, will be able to step into those shoes.

Cersei, oh Cersei - I love how much I hate Cersei. Her vulnerability is expanded upon in this Season, and its actually beginning to grow on me. One of those liberties taken from the book that turned out pleasantly surprising. Best line of this season in response to Sansa's "But you were Robert's queen!" --> "And you will be Joffrey's, enjoy." *drinks herself blind*

Theon - For some odd reason, I can't latch on to Theon's humanization in this season as much as Cersei's. The writers tried to show a vaguely sympathetic side to Theon's story, but I wasn't as captured by Alfie Allen's performance. There's plenty of time to change that, though.

Brienne the Badass - My flawless queen. That is all.

Daenerys - I wasn't as interested in Daenarys this season because she had such limited screen time and because her character seemed kind of just... there. There were bouts of fierceness that really suck you in (for example, the Quartheen entreaty), but there were also scenes that seemed boring. To be fair, much of the action was focused on King's Landing in Westeros, and much more time was devoted to those scenes.

Joffrey - Where is my fabulous Joffrey slap? Every episode requires a fabulous backhand across this little punk's baby-bottom smooth cheek. Very much looking forward to his death in Season 3. Hoping Bronn will say something snarky about him dying a virgin.

Tywin and Arya - Personally, for me, the quadrumvirate of Arya, Tywin, Brienne, and Tyrion MADE this season. Hands down. There was such a fantastic chemistry between Maisie Williams and Charles Dance, and for the writers and directors to make use of that said something about the amazing quality of this show. My favorite scenes of the season, no question, were the interactions between Arya and Tywin. It reminded me a lot of that visceral scene in season 1 between Tywin and Jaime when he was gutting the deer (?). This is Emmy-winning material.

Stannis and Melisandre - Just... ew.

Jon Snow - One of the fan favorites of the show and book, Kit Harington has yet to live up to the vision of Jon Snow that the book has fleshed out. Make no mistake, I'm sure he will get there, but right now, rugged, dark-bearded Kit Harington is too naive a Jon Snow. There aren't enough scenes to show his growth (maybe in Season 3). He may know nothing, but at least his taste in women is immaculate. Ygritte is hot.

Special mention: Roz - Because Roz has come so far. Roz was barely mentioned in the book, but if George Martin included her in the TV show, she's got to have a role in something. She's really, really enticing, and her role is one of those minor changes that actually surprised me in a good way.

Season 1 set the standard. Season 2 didn't quite live up to that standard, but it was still pretty damn good. And it kept me at the edge of my seats with anticipation. This fan is certainly won over.