Regarding Mr. Hornaday's review:

Although Aaron Spelling was the executive producer of THE MOD SQUAD, and obviously had a lot of input into the format, he was not the creator of the show.

Bud Ruskin, a former narcotics detective with the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office, had written a pilot script for a proposed series based on the team of youthful narcotics agents he ran in the late 1950's.  The script was written in 1960 or thereabouts.  Unable to sell it for years, it seemed like a project that would never come to fruition until Spelling and his production staff got a hold of it.  Heavily revising Ruskin's concept to reflect what was going on in the late '60's, with the youth counter-culture movement, they filmed the pilot, which sold, and the rest is history.

Ruskin was always listed as the creator, and also served as the police technical advisor for the run of the series.

Another interesting point.  Though Spelling was the executive producer, the show had two line producers, Tony Barrett and Harve Bennett, who also both contributed scripts to the show (Barrett, in fact, was the one who heavily revised Ruskin's original script).

Barrett and Bennett alternated the episodes they produced, and each took an entirely different approache to the series, to its benefit.  The  episodes produced by Barrett were basically straightforward cop stories with little or no political subtext.  The episodes produced by Bennett were the "relevant" episodes, in which the issues of the day were examined through the prism of a detective show.  Bennett's issues-oriented episodes kept young people tuning in, while Barrett's straightforward cops-n-robbers episodes satisfied action fans who didn't really care about the issues, or at least didn't want to think about them while they were being entertained.  Thus, the show widened its appeal.

Another interesting piece of trivia.  The most famous of all LAPD-based cop shows, DRAGNET, had, after an eight-year hiatus, returned to TV two seasons before THE MOD SQUAD debuted.  In one of the episodes of the revived DRAGNET, Friday and Gannon go up against a gang of juvenile delinquents called "The Mod Squad."  Aaron Spelling got his start in show business as an actor, and some of his first roles were in the original DRAGNET that ran from 1951-59.  In interviews Spelling mentioned how much Jack Webb, who gave him some his first breaks in the business, had influenced him.  "I think people really forget," he once said, "that DRAGNET was not only a popular show.  It was good."  Given his connection with, and admiration for, DRAGNET, it's entirely possible that he got the idea for the title of this, his own first cop show, from that episode of the revived DRAGNET series.