If you went to your local community theater and saw this production, it would be the performance of a lifetime.  Even as a Broadway revival it would be a hit.  I had no idea that Broderick had this kind of talent as a song and dance man.  But any movie of the Music Man is not likely to be judged by the standards of a live performance, it is going to be compared to the 1962 movie with Robert Preston, Shirley Jones, Buddy Hackett, Ron Howard and the Buffalo Bills (who were international barbershop quartet champions).  And while any Disney production is going to be professionally done with gorgeous sets, the comparisons to the 1962 film are the undoing of this production.

Having said that Broderick surprised me with his talent, he just looks wrong for the part: his face doesn't look like a man who has spent years on the road swindling parents.  Chenoweth is also a very talented performer, but because Shirley Jones is so iconic in this role, it is hard not to feel that Chenoweth lacks the wholesomeness of "the real" Marian.  The Disney cast is professional, but lacks the depth of the original cast (right down to Ron Howard -- who is probably tired of hearing what a great child actor he was, but really was one of the great child actors of all time).  Probably the least favorable comparison is the (uncredited) barbershop quartet compared to the Buffalo Bills.

The sets are beautiful and the production quite up to date.  Some of the musical numbers are very well done (e.g. Marian the Librarian). This production revives the song My White Knight (which became Being in Love for the 1962 production).  But much of the music is over interpreted for my taste.  Some of that may be intentional burlesque, but at times I felt like I was listening to American Idol Does Meredith Wilson night.

The Music Man is fun -- at almost any level.  Were it not for the 1962 version, this would be a smash.  But given the availability of the 1962 version, the only reason to bother with this remake is to compare different productions.  And it is that comparison that cuts the legs out from under this production.