I've always loved sword-and-sandal flicks, so last night I rented a copy of Jason and the Argonauts hoping for some mythological mayhem.  What I  ended up with was a poorly-paced and tedious bowdlerized waste of video.  The acting is terrible.  The worst of all is Dennis Hopper's role as  Pelias.  Sometimes, acting is so bad it's funny.  In Dennis Hopper's case,  the acting is so bad it is not funny at all--it's just plain awful.  I  think he could have done a better job if he'd been reading lines off a  teleprompter.
Another problem I have is with the casting for the part of  Jason, played by Jason London.  He is referred to as having a handsome face  and being a hero throughout the movie, but this is a case of wishful  thinking.  Although Jason London is not an ugly man, he is decidedly plain.  And his appearance certainly doesn't inspire paeans of heroism, either.  He's rather spindly, and, to top it all off, he sports a mullet!
The  bowdlerization is quite annoying.  Someone castrated a perfectly-good tale  for the sake of a PG-rating.  Where is the blood, gore, and sexual tension  of the original story?  It's certainly not in this waste of a miniseries.  According to legend, Medea is a frightening, cold-blooded, black witch.  Although she does fall in love with Jason, her love is marred by obsession  and cruelty.  In order to help Jason make his grand escape from Colchis,  she slows down her father's pursuit by murdering her brother (still a child  in the myth, and not the hale and hearty admiral of the video), rending him  into small pieces, and throwing the bits overboard from the Argo.  The  father, in his grief, slows his fleet to gather up the body parts of his  beloved son.  In the movie, Medea is portrayed as selfless and good, hardly  the sort of woman she ended up being in legend when she tortures the  philandering Jason's new wife and father-in-law to death and murders her  own children.
Another problem is the treatment of Hercules.  Although I  almost smiled at his braggadocio regarding the twelve tasks he had earlier  completed, the joke soon became old.  What is lacking are his prodigious  amorous achievements.  This is hinted at chastely in the matriarchy of  Lemnos when he sits in a pool surrounded by a bevy of gorgeous women, but  the real reason he disappeared from the Argonauts isn't even hinted at:  the handsome young Argonaut Hylas went missing at Cios.  Hercules was  passionately in love with this boy, and chose to stay behind to find him.  I don't know why the Lemnians are portrayed so negatively.  According to  legend, the Argonauts stayed there for a year and had a whole nursery-load  of children with these women.  There are plenty of scary adventures in the  mythos which aren't even touched on.  I guess this scene of Amazons, er,  Lemnians, is included for titillation.
The only thing that saves this  movie from being an utter disaster are some of the special effects.  The  harpies of King Phineus are imaginatively done, if more bloodthirsty than  legend has it. Instead of killing whoever eats, they instead stole the food  and defecated on what was left.  I guess this is just a little too  scatological for modern-day audiences.  Ah well.  As I was saying, the  harpies are wonderfully-done and are formidable enemies.  Similarly, the  taming of the fire-breathing bull (only one, opposed to the two in legend),  is done rather well.  It's too bad the rest of the movie doesn't measure up  to these fine scenes.