The late Marie Windsor is one of the great "bad girls" of cinema, having appeared in several "films noir" and westerns, and made a very impressive mark. Tall and shapely, with large, heavy lidded eyes, a generous mouth (some wags called her "a cross between Loretta Young and Edmund O'Brien") and a somewhat flat delivery of her lines, "tough broads" were her forte. Her three favorite films were "Hellfire", "The Narrow Margin", and Stanley Kubrick's "The Killing", based on the book "Clean Break" by Lionel White. Ms. Windsor plays Sherry Peatty, the faithless, scheming, no-good wife of milquetoast racetrack cashier George Peatty, played by that champ of [bad] roles, Elisha Cook, Jr.  Sherry and her boyfriend Val (a pre-Ben Casey Vince Edwards) get wind of George's participation in an elaborately plotted racetrack robbery, masterminded by Johnny Clay (Sterling Hayden), and want to get their greedy hands on the stolen loot. This unfortunate triangle is my favorite element of this audacious film. Stanley Kubrick co-scripted this film with Jim Thompson ("The Grifters", "The Killer Inside Me", "After Dark My Sweet"), and his unique narrative structure, copied some 38 years later by the vastly overrated Quentin Tarantino and Tarantino ... Guy Ritchie, is amazing. "The Killing" does resemble Huston's "The Asphalt Jungle", which also starred Mr. Hayden, in its big-heist-gone-awry story, but it pushes the envelope even further, with its gritty, strongly lit photography (you can practically smell the characters!), strong dialogue, and less-than-glamorous looking performers. Strong stuff for 1956! Other players in this film include Jay C. Flippen, Joe Sawyer, Ted de Corsio, Jay Adler, Kola Awariani, pretty Colleen Gray, and Dorothy Adams, who are all perfect in their roles, tho Ms. Gray's part is so slight that she could have "phoned it in". This is the first of my 3 favorite Kubrick films, along with "Lolita" and "Dr. Strangelove", before Mr. K. got on the space shuttle to Planet Weird, tho I did like the misanthropic "A Clockwork Orange". The picture quality and sound on this DVD are excellent, though surprisingly, there are no extra features. If you are a fan of film noir, then this is an absolute must-see film. "The Killing" packs quite a wallop!