Burt Lancaster was at the top of his talents, the role of evangelist Elmer Gantry calling on everything Lancaster had to give as an actor. Jean Simmons and Shirley Jones were great, too, exactly right as the true believer and the scheming whore, respectively. And to think it almost didn't happen.

Writer-director Richard Brooks tried for years to get a studio to back the film, according to the new book "Tough as Nails: The Life and Films of Richard Brooks" (available from amazon.com), but no one wanted to touch it. As a young man Brooks had been taken by the Sinclair Lewis novel about a hypocritical preacher, but the novel had been banned from film production by the Hollywood censors as early as the 1930's.

Finally, in the late 1950's, with the Production Code crumbling amid controversial but popular movies, Brooks got the go-ahead and made "Elmer Gantry" for United Artists, his first movie after leaving MGM. Lancaster had been unmoved by early versions of the script, and Brooks considered other actors before agreeing to work with Lancaster to revise the script. (Names he mentioned included Montgomery Clift and James Cagney.)

Brooks didn't want Shirley Jones for the role of the prostitute - she was known as a light musical star - but Lancaster had seen her in a live TV show and thought she could handle the part. Brooks made her feel unwanted, ignoring her the first day she worked, even though it was her big scene in the whorehouse. That night, he called her and admitted she had been great and that he had been wrong. He correctly predicted she'd get an Oscar - as did she, Lancaster and Brooks himself for his screenplay.

Don't overlook Jean Simmons, though. She makes the whole movie work as Sister Sharon. By playing Sharon as a true believer - she wasn't the phony that Elmer Gantry was - Simmons makes her being swept away by Gantry all the more tragic. Brooks pushed to prohibit people under 16 from seeing the movie without an adult even though it cost him at the box office. Doing so avoided having the Legion of Decency condemn the movie. Notice, too, that no specific denomination is mentioned (in the book Gantry was a Baptist).

<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0299251241">Tough as Nails: The Life and Films of Richard Brooks (Wisconsin Film Studies)</a>