Everybody complains about the technical aspects of the DVD release so I not even going to go there.  I'm just going to focus on the actual movies themselves.

When, "African Queen", came out in the 30's or 40's(can't remember exactly when), a whole new genre was created known as action adventure.  After that amazing release, adventure movies were typicaly -B movies which were often mediocre with poor acting and poorly thought out plots and storylines. And then this came out and everything was changed.  "Raiders Of The Lost Ark",  is without a doubt the best action adventure film after, "Star Wars".  The trilogy as a whole blends absurd but exciting stunts and action sequences with ironic humour and some of the best lines and catch phrases ever.

"Raiders Of The Lost Ark", opens up with Dr. Jones raiding an old Mayan Ruin for some long fogotten idol.  This contains the famous boulder scene(which is the most parodied scene in movie history) as well as other adventure standards such as poison darts and creepy insects and spiders which were completely escalated in, "Temple Of Doom".  Karen Allen as Marion Ravenwood is one of the best female leads ever and Paul Freeman and Ronald Lacy as the bad guys is simply good casting.  The snake pit scene is unfogettable and the ending is one of the best ever.  I especialy like how the bad guys die(I won't spoil it by telling you how just in case you haven't seen the movie yet).

"Temple Of Doom", is an underrated masterpiece.  The ultimate bug and insect scene is in this film as well as the best mine car chase ever.  Jone's sidekick Short Round is unforgettable as the little Chinease wizkid and the female lead is a complete reverse of Karen Allen's character in ROTLA.  The Nazis are avoided this time in favour of an evil religious cult that worships Satin and enslaves little children to look for whatever it is they want.  Another classic scene is the rope bridge over the canyon and the death of the bad guy is classic too.

"The Last Crusade",  is memorable for many reasons but most of all its Sean Connery as Jone's father.  Great acting by both actors with more incredible action sequences and laugh out loud humour.  Instead of snakes and insects we get rats in this film which is all the more creepy. River Phoenix does a geat job as young Indiana Jones as well in this film.  More Nazis[We actually see Hitler(just an actor of course)]and more religious vaules as Dr. Jones searches for the holy grail.

Thanks to this movie series, Indiana Jones is now a house hold name.  This is recomended for anybody who enjoys a good action adventure movie and is a must for collectors of the genre.