Okay, for those of you who are reading these reviews because you haven't seen the movie and aren't sure whether or not it's worth buying, let me give you some advice.  Before reading each review, look first to see if the title of that swashbuckling blockbuster with Johnny Depp pops up.  If it does, SKIP THE REVIEW!  It's so frustrating to see people taking two completely different movies, with different budgets and directors, and trying to say the smaller one sucks only because the bigger one was so good.  That's like shooting down Freddy Vs. Jason because Lord of the Rings is so huge.  Hey, they were both made by New Line Cinema, right?
You'll even see some whining about a tarot card with a picture of naked people.  Anyone who's offended by this should never take their kids to an art museum.  It's classic artwork people!  It's not like they cut out a photo from Penthouse and stuck it on there!  Geesh!
With that out of my system, I'll discuss the movie.  It was really good.  I only gave it four stars because it could have been better, but this doesn't mean it's not thoroughly enjoyable.  I'm well adjusted to horror movies and I even jumped a few times.  Once it gets going, it doesn't slow down much to get into the plot very deep, but isn't that how a ride is supposed to be?  And yes, there is a good plot and everything is explained.  The reason some people don't get it is because they're not doing something which is becoming quite common with audiences nowadays: Paying Attention.
Without a doubt, I recommend this to younger viewers.  If your kids can't handle this, then you should keep them away from other movies just as scary such as Harry Potter, Casper, or The Addams Family.  Seriously, if you can take your kid on the ride, your kid can watch this.  In fact, the movie even teaches kids a valuable lesson about facing your fears.
The atmosphere here is fantastic.  When the family becomes stranded at the house, you really feel it, and just when the suspense and creepiness of the whole scenario starts to settle in, that's when the action hits without ever letting go until the spectacular ending where all hell literally breaks loose!
So watch this movie and remember to judge it for the movie it's supposed to be.  If every movie was a huge blockbuster, there would be no such thing as a B-movie and our shelves would look rather empty.