This DVD is a bit of a rip of to be honest.  Many times I've read online forums and read copious preview blurbs stating that there was going to be a directors cut of this movie, restoring 40 minutes of blah...blah....blah...Yawn.

You get 2 DVDs. The first disc is where you will find the ORIGINAL THEATRICAL VERSION.  Yes you heard it right...THE ORIGINAL THEATRICAL VERSION.  Gasp, how can this be, what about the deleted scenes....etc. Well, there are deleted scenes but they have not been put back into the movie, something which will be explained later on.

I already had bought the first DVD release and was looking forward to seeing deleted scenes put back into the movie. This release IS better though as you get a very nice looking anamorphic version and you get DTS which sounds sweet. But this still is the original.

The second disk contains a good making of documentary and some other supplemental behind the scenes stuff however the best part of this disk is the deleted scenes and after listening to the commentary it soon becomes apparent why there wont be a directors cut.  Also the quality of these deleted scenes are terrible. The print is covered with pen markers and edit markers and looks like its been made by a first year film student.

You find out that a lot of the "CUT" stuff was actually from different versions of the movie that was used during screenings to help gauge reactions from the audience and could no way be re-integrated into the film.

Also, because this movie was made in the pre-DVD era the studio dumped a lot of the deleted stuff away as it was envisaged that none of this would ever see the light of day again. One example is the deleted crew torture sequence which was to be part of when weir was showing hell to fishburn. However this no longer exists on film and is only on poor quality video.

So, to sum it up what you have here is this.

1. A better looking and sounding version of the movie previously released (Nice DTS track!!!)

2. An interesting commentary

3. Some nice extras that put the rumours to bed about a directors cut.

If you dont have the movie already then I would recommend you getting this one as this is probably the best version you will see until paramount release it in HD.