About half way through this series, one of the characters reacts to something handed her by a stranger, saying "What in the world?......Some sort of bad joke."

Which, ironically enough, perfectly sums-up Serial Experiments Lain.  It's the "Artistic, stunning Anime" that's actually uninteresting, slow, self-important melodrama.

And what's with all the grunting, huffing and sighing.....and 2 minute "terror" scenes where we're forced to listen to bad voice actors make-up "OMG, I'M SO SCARED" noises that no human being would ever utter without laughing at themselves.  Even when running for their life.

All in all, I think most positive reviewers are mistaking "Artistic" with "Very poor writing of a semi-interesting story".

The author blissfully jumps from Plot-Point A to Plot-Point B without so much as faking even an implausible deus ex machina:  here we are, forced to watch another 5 minutes of Mopey-Dopey Lain "artistically" trudge down the sidewalk, grunting to herself while staring at transmission lines for the umpteenth time and then BAM!....she's Johnny-On-The-Spot Lain, diligently hunting down The Professor for absolutely no logical reason at all.

I especially liked when Lain's "Dad" pops his head into her room and is just as surprised as we are to see it chalk-full of hardcore computer equipment:  how'd this 8th grade girl get a 747 cargo jet's worth of mainframe into her room without "Dad" noticing her dragging the crap up the stairs.  I mean, what did she do with the boxes and packing material?  Eat it?  And where the heck did she get the cash for it all?  There's a hundred thousand dollars worth of computer crap in there.  Is she selling Amway on the side?

The Lain series turns out to be incredible to the extent that virtually every minute of it is annoying in one way or another.  Here's a suggestion if you decide to buy it: watch it in the language you don't understand.  If you understand Japanese, watch it in English.  If you know English, watch it in Japanese.  As long as you don't understand the words, there's a chance your mind will ignore the terrible writing and manufacture a decent story.

Heck...watch it with the sound off:  then not only will you make up a better story, you won't have to listen to all the obnoxious grunting and puffing.