Normally, I would've rated this with 5 stars, but unfortunately, "Batman &amp; Robin", the 4th in the series thus far, was poorly produced. But let's keep this current. As of January 28th, 2003, it was announced that they will, in fact, be making more batman movies. We can only hope that they will be closer to the legend of Bruce Wayne's alter ego as was captured in 1989's Batman, directed by Tim Burton.
  My idea of Gotham city, the world of Batman, is a dark and grizzled one, full of 'goth' architecture, and knarled, twisted, alleys, matching it's brand of psychotic criminals that inhabit Gotham city. My idea of a man capable of performing such a feat of technology, intelligence, strength, martial arts, skill, and detective mastery, not to mention pure vengeful determination as to adequately wear the cowl can be a disturbing one. Taken into account that we are talking about someone purely fictional is often relief, but also a tale of tragedy turned into triumph. I still marvel (snicker) at the special effects accomplished for all 4 movies, no matter how poor the 4th installment was. Regarding the movies themself: Usually the first in the series is the best and would be for this series starter as well. Batman was brilliantly filmed, and Jack Nicholson as the Joker was perfect. Regarding 'Returns', most people don't consider it as good as its predessor. I don't agree. I see 'Returns' as more of an internal movie, more psychological, which I thought was also well done. Another great Batman adventure with a different approach. Batman Forever was also done well, and quite honestly, I thought Val Kilmer made the role of Wayne/Batman more three-dimensional as opposed to the cardboard cutout that unfortunately Michael Keaton provided. The riddler was done flawlessly by Jim Carey and surprisingly, Robin was also introduced as a working character by Chris O'Donnell. However, when 'Batman &amp; Robin' was released it showed the inevitable clunkiness of the franchise due to an overproduced, overcommercialized mess of a movie with a weak plot. It's unfortunate to see the Batman series leave off with such a weak bookend. Hopefully, however, the next installment will be far better than this one. Otherwise, it's a great series of movies.