Contains Ergo Proxy episodes 1-4

Please DO NOT read the official Amazon reviewer's reviews for this series.  The review for the series as a whole contains a major spoiler.  Plus, it's obvious Mr. Solomon doesn't like the series.

In the distant future of Earth, centuries after some unknown catastrophy, the human race lives in a "boring utopia" of domed cities.  Fellow citizens of the city of Romdo are constantly urged by ubiquitous ads to consume, consume, consume.  Another domed city, Mosk, has recently been destroyed, and refugees are immigrating to Romdo with the goal of becoming fellow citizens.  Most of the people of Romdo (citizen or immigrant) have at least one "Autoreiv" (robot) who might serve as an assitant ("entourage") or simply as a companion.

We meet most of the main and secondary characters in the first episode (in order of appearance):
Daedelus: a young genius scientist/doctor.  Obsessed with Re-l.  Involved with the proxies.
An ugly proxy: proxies are humanoid monsters, and to tell you anything else at all about them would be a spoiler.  Knowledge of their existence is kept from the general public.  This one breaks loose from a lab.
Raul Creed: Chief of the Security Bureau - knows a proxy exists, but doesn't know what it is.  He's ordered to capture the ugly proxy, not kill it.
Kristeva: his autoreiv entourage.
Regent Donev Mayer: ruler of Romdo and grandfather of Re-l.  He never communicates directly, but speaks via four floating statues (at least, I think that's what is going on.)
Re-l Mayer: works for the intelligence bureau.  Sees two proxies. No one believes her (or, if they know proxies exist, pretend they don't believe her.)
Iggy: her autoreiv entourage.
Vincent Law: a recent immigrant from Mosk who investigates reports of autoreivs becoming infected with the cogito virus, a virus which causes autoreivs to become self-aware, self-determined, and sometimes (but not always) homicidal.
Pino: a companion model autoreiv - a substitute child.  According to Vincent Law, she does not have the cogito virus.  Her human "parents" have just been given a new human baby, so her "mother" no longer wants her.
The "joker-faced" proxy: breaks into Re-l's apartment as she is preparing to take a shower.  Then the ugly proxy appears, they fight briefly, then leave.

And that's just the first episode.

Rated 16+ because - ah, who the heck knows.  I have no idea how they rate these things.  There's a lttle occassional gore, violence, swear words, but not that much.  "Fanservice" is mostly subliminal to non-existent.  People younger than 16 might not have the attention span for this.

I'd rate the series as a whole somewhere around 4.3 to 4.5.  Not "ohmigod, you gotta see this" good, but close.  The animation and English voice acting are reasonbly good for the most part.  There are a few filler episodes which you may or may not like.  The animation quality suffers in the final disc.  Nevertheless, if you like series that make you think and that you'll have to watch a few times to really understand (and I don't claim to get it all myself), I recommend this series.  Since the box set is insanely expensive, I advise you to buy the single discs, since most of them are reasonably priced.  Keep your eye on Disc 6 (the final disc).  If you're lucky, you might get it at a good price.  (There are Region 2 Ergo Proxy Discs 7, 8, and 9, but these apparently contain episodes 17-19, 20-22, and 23 respectively.)

[Edit: This series will be re-released in August 2012.  Also, Amazon removed the spoiler from Charles Solomon's review.]