The first time I ever saw this film was just last year when I was 15 years old. I had never even heard about it until I watched the Making of Saving Private Ryan. This documentary played a clip of some of Steven Spielberg's  movies set during World War 2. 
When I heard the beautiful John Williams'  score play on my TV and a boy watching a lone fighter plane soar across the  runway, I was immediately captivated and sat in awe as this boy cheered on  the fighter plane. I immediately rewound the tape and read the title of  this clip: Empire of the Sun.
I quickly ran to my local Blockbuster and  rented the movie not even knowing what the film was about and was witnessed  to the most amazing film I had ever seen!  
The performances were top  notch and the performance from the young Christian Bale, who plays the  young boy, Jim, forced in a Japanese Intern Camp, is the greatest  performance by a child I have ever seen, exceeding that of such names as  Henry Thomas (E.T.) and young oscar nominee Haley Joel Osment (The Sixth  Sense).
The movie itself is a visual masterpiece with never a dull  moment. This movie contains some of the most memorable and beuatiful scenes  I have ever seen anywhere. The story itself is full of drama, action, and  suspence that captures your heart and never lets go even after the end  credits are rolling! 
As usual, John Williams delivers with one of his  greatest scores ever. The visual effects are astounding and perfectly  executed to enhance the storytelling of the movie. 
I disagree with some  of the negative reviews that plague this underrated epic. Many people  before its release expected it to be this huge blockbuster stemming off as  an adaptation of a book by the same name. How can anyone expect a movie  about a boy torn from his parents and forced to live in a Japanese Prison  Camp, get cursed and beaten at and forced to eat bugs and potatoes for  years to be a huge blockbuster. Many people attacked it for its lack of  commercial success. 
While this may not be the most historically accurate  film in the case of how horrific the conditions of the prison camps really  were, this would only destract the audiance from what the film should be  and is, a film that begins tragically but ends up being a coming of age  heartwarming epic drama about a boy forced to live and grow up fast under  the harshest of conditions and yet triumphs against all obstacles.