At the beginning of this film, we can see that hotelier Paul Rusesabagina has a respectable career, a loving family, and is not in any danger of being misclassified and persecuted as being the wrong race, i.e. a lighter skinned Tutsi.

But as the hatred increases and the Hutu majority takes over after the president has been assassinated, anyone harboring a Tutsi is ripe for extermination. The Hutu radio announcer even refers to the Tutsis as "cockroaches" which psychologically makes it easier to kill them. In fact, radios were the only form of mass communication and the Hutu majority gave people them in order to keep up with the latest news.

While Hotel Rwanda reveals the events of the genocide that occurred in the spring of 1994, it's really a moving testament to the compassion of one person, Mr. Rusesabagina. Just after he's ousted from his home along with his family and a few neighbors, he is given the opportunity to make good with the Hutu killers and free himself but have his loved ones shot. He then becomes consumed by good as he opts to buy their way to freedom, thanks to the money from the hotel safe, and also encourage those with money/jewelry to participate in freeing themselves from impending death. The intelligence, courage, and most of all, compassion that he exhibits only increases as his country and, unfortunately, many of his countrymen, disintegrate into violence around him.

Mr. Rusesabagina saves still more lives when refugees and orphans are allowed to remain in the Hotel Mille Collines during the days and nights of terror that erupted that April. Through persistence his carefully cultivated connections do come through for him and he ends up saving 1200+ lives as the U.N. drives them through the front line to the refugee camp.

This film is made even more meaningful by the fact that Don Cheadle, the accomplished actor who portrayed the spiritually evolved hotelier, personally delivered the DVD to me as part of Amazon's 10th Anniversary Special Delivery program.