At a laundromat, toughguy Ben Affleck (lol) has a man in a dryer.  He talks to his victim (not the audience), rattling off threats regarding shoelaces and body moisture, threats that exist only in the world of hack writing.  The man owes some money to Ben's boss, Louis.  Ben says "f**k" a lot, so he's tough.  Ben then meets with Louis.  Louis chews out Ben.  Louis says "f**k" a lot, so he's tough.  Louis wants Ben to kidnap Brian, the younger brother of a man causing bossman Mr. Starkman trouble.  Brian is a "beloved relative with certain psychological defects"; no, he's not the screenwriter.

 Ben heads out to the institution.  Apparently, security there is non-existent as Ben walks right in and begins conversing with Brian (Justin Bartha).  Brian is apprehensive, as if he were going to a Ben Affleck movie.  Brian says "f**k", so he's tough.  Naturally, Ben has no trouble leaving with Brian as he heads to his apartment (great place to bring a kidnap victim).  Brian wants to go home.  I wonder if they'll put aside their animosity and eventually develop a true friendship?

 Later on, JLO (who says f**k, so she's tough) visits, asking to use Ben's phone.  They stare, then Ben asks her "Do we know each other?"  Clever!?!  JLO turns to Brian and says "you're a very handsome young man"  Apparently, JLO is lining him up to be her ninth husband or whatever number she's up to now.  JLO tells Ben, "I heard you were a f**kup".  She must've seen `Pearl Harbor'.

 Louis calls Ben, telling him he hired JLO because of the operation's importance.  Why have Ben there in the first place, I dunno.  JLO and Ben argue, then Ben says something which isn't quite a killer put-down:

 "...sit at my f**king feet.  Gather the pearls that emanate forth from me" ?!?

This movie is real deep.  Brian twice tells Ben he's an idiot.

 We discover that Brian likes to be read to before sleeping(Read him the script!).  Unsurprisingly, Ben doesn't own books.  Later, JLO reads a book. Ben finds out she's a lesbian.  And that's about it for that scene.

 Morning comes and Brian calls a number in Australia that gives weather reports, `Cause Brian is so innocent, and he doesn't know the call is expensive!  Comedy!  A detective stops by (Christopher Walken, proving he will appear in ABSOLUTELY ANY MOVIE!).  Walken is suspicious of Ben.  Before leaving, he proves that, like Ben, he's a master of verbal jabs:

 "go down to Marie Callender's, get me a big bowl, pie, some ice cream on it, mmmm good.  Put some on your head your tongue would slap your brains out trying to get to it.  Interested?"

 The trio drive (let's drive our kidnapee around in our convertible) to a restaurant (let's bring our kidnapee to a public place) where punks are playing loud music.  Ben demands they lower it (let's loudly bring attention to ourselves).  The gang threatens to beat him (if only!).  JLO steps forward and makes another forced speech about how she's tough.  Suspend disbelief, `cause the SEVEN punks fearfully back off, instead of wasting Bennifer.

 Ben goes to his mom's house.  She gives him a slap, meant to elicit laughs but really elicits envy.  Brian volunteers he has to pee.  I have to vomit.

 At Ben's apartment, Ben catches Brian calling Australia again.  Brian states he likes the weathergirl's voice, maybe `cause she has a POINT!  Ben pesters JLO, who's doing yoga.  For five minutes, Ben and JLO describe private parts.  Comedy!?!  Louis calls but Brian picks up; They argue `comically'.  Louis orders Ben to mail Brian's thumb; Ben reluctantly agrees.  Given the films Ben stars in, I figured he'd agree to anything.

 The next morning Brian's dancing and rapping.  Comedy!?!  A woman knocks; Ben lets her in.  She says, "f**k", so she must be tough.  It turns out she's JLO's ex (who isn't?) and wants her back.  Everybody argues.  What is this movie about, again?  The ex-lover runs into the kitchen and cuts her wrists, presumably because she'll never again be taken seriously as an actress.  They rush her to the hospital to get bandaged and that's the last we see of her.  Too bad, I thought she had some kind of PURPOSE.

  Ben and JLO decide to get a thumb from a corpse in the morgue, apparently not realizing thumbs get fingerprinted.  JLO asks Ben, "Are you with me?".  Ben says, "sure", beginning a debate about how "sure" is the same thing as "yes"; an argument some concussed 3-year-olds might have.  Ben sneaks into the morgue with no problem.  Ben obtains a corpse's thumb with a plastic knife (?).  Brian raps again.  Comedy!?!

 The next day, Ben gets all teary-eyed, babbling about how he feels about JLO.  In Ben's apartment, JLO makes a `funny' speech about how men check their fingernails.  Mine are currently embedded into my skull.  Louie calls and wants a meeting.  Our two stars get it on in a PG-13 way.  JLO's character likes women, but she couldn't resist girly Ben's charm.

 Louis tells them Starkman wants a meeting.  At Starkman's impressive home, we are  puzzled to see Al Pacino in this turkey.  Somewhat unshockingly, police fingerprinted the thumb.  Pacino shoots Louie.  Finally, something actually happened in this film.  Pacino shouts, "I have no compunctions!", which is obvious; he's in this film.  We now hope Pacino splatters Ben's and Jen's brains but JLO makes another pathetically forced speech, saving them.

 Our leads drive down the coast with Brian; Ben bonds with him in more insightful exchanges that I leave to your imagination.  Brian thinks he sees  "the Baywatch" and they eventually drop him off there.  I guess Brian will be fine wandering a beach by himself.  JLO drives away only to come back and pickup Ben; why, I dunno.