I saw 'Night at the Museum' in IMAX in December 2006. I have to admit that I was not initially expecting more than a standard-fare kids' flick, chock full of the hackeyed slapstick gags, anthropomrphisms and goody-two-shoes morality lessons that have now come to monopolize the genre.  What made this movie stand out for me, however, was not that it was fundamentally different from its ilk (we get to see lots and lots of improbable anthropomorphisms, as the numerous previews of walking dinosaur skeletons, rascal monkeys and a talking Easter Island head highlight, along with a substantively believable yet oft-used father-son morality lesson), but rather the fact that the entire movie is one enjoyable adventure in a place that too few young people today consider fun: a museum. Yes, this movie actually makes going to the museum look and feel fun.

The pantheon of come-to-life characters ranges far and wide, from a Roman general, to Lewis and Clark "tour guide" Sacajawea, to Teddy 'Rough Rider' Roosevelt before his presidency (played well by Robin Williams). We don't quite learn much about these historical figures, but the fact that they are embodied in three-dimensional life and form makes them more human, and therefore more interesting. I am sure many a student, young or old, will want to learn more about the people, places, and events that are depicted in this movie because of that.

I think this movie will become a 'classic' in its own right. The storyline is simple but effective, and the action is never dull.  Ben Stiller does a good job balancing the physical demands of his job as a night watchman with his laudable commitment to his son.  Carla Gugino adds a little 'spice' to the mix, but the suggestion of romance is tasteful and family-friendly.  The numerous real and CGI characters are highly entertaining and help sustain the high but non-draining pace of the movie.

If you are looking for a family-friendly and exciting film, 'Night at the Museum' delivers.

Finally, on a more personal note, I love seeing Mickey Rooney in this film, if only because it may end up capping (hopefully not yet) a lifetime of wonderful, classy, family-friendly films dating all the way back to the early 1930s (can you believe it?). Rooney and the late Judy Garland were the hot young stars of their era. It is sad to see that so many of that by-gone era have passed on, but I am glad to see that Rooney's torch still burns bright. Go Mickey!

Note for prosective museum-goers: While the movie suggests that the setting is in New York's American Museum of Natural History, the interior is completely different than the actual museum's (the exterior shots are real, however). The real museum does contain many famous dioramas, especially of North American wildlife- stuffed unfortunately- but the dioramas in this movie were created in Hollywood. Regardless, if you do live in the New York City area, or anywhere near a similar museum, this movie will be great encouragement to see it again, or for the very first time.