Buy this film. Buy it, then buy the biggest TV you can. And the Loudest surround-sound system you can. Then sit down, live it, and cry, knowing there is no tv big enough, or sound system loud enough, to make justice to the EXPERIENCE that is Tron Legacy in 3D.

Proceed to ride a motorcycle at full speed on deserted highways at 3 am with the soundtrack implanted on your brain.

It will not ease your absolute longing, but it will at least help.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why am I writing a review for a Disney Blockbuster, when I generally never bother writing reviews on Amazon, and when as a film student who has seen hundreds of "masterpieces" and important films, there *should* be a thousand others I should be writing about?

Watch this film, and you will have your answer. Or better yet, win the lotto, rent an IMAX theater, and watch it. Again. And again. And again.... Only then will you understand.

Two things:
1 - I almost *never* go to the movies. I watch dozens of films each year. But they are, for the most part, not the types you see in theaters.
2 - I took a 2 hour roundtrip to watch this film on an IMAX theater. Not once. Not Twice.... Three times. (And it would have been Four if they were still screening it)

Again, the question is, WHY?

Because this film is, plain and simple, a Masterpiece. And watching it on IMAX was, I dare say, one of the most gratifying, satisfying, electrifying, experiences of my life. Woooahh says you... better than skydiving, watching a full moon on the outer walls of a Czech castle, or roaming around Chichen Itza at night???

Not better. But different...in the realm of ENTERTAINMENT, watching this film is definitely one of the ultimate highlights.

Again, WHY?

The story? Apart from the concept of the GRID, it is still reduced to the classic good guys vs bad guys story. Of course good guy wins, and gets the girl at the end. What did you expect?
Dialogue? - Cheesy lines from the main actor. Sad, but true.
Acting? - OK at best. The highlight was Castor -and he was a secondary character-

In other words, as a film, on paper, it is simply another Blockbuster. Designed to entertain, and make money. Not to redefine cinematic boundaries or be a medium-changing event.

The thing is, IT IS. WHY IS THIS FILM SO !$^# GOOD?
IT. itself. the experience. its "core" or whatever you want to call it. WHOEVER SAID "YOU DONT LOOSE ANYTHING BY NOT WATCHING IT IN 3D", IS WRONG. Oh so wrong. Never listen to them again.

This movie *IS* 3D. It is not normal-theater-3D either, it is *best-Imax-theater-in-state-3D.* Whoever didn't see this in Imax has missed a defining moment in the history of cinema. And I can say this -as a film student- with a straight face.

Because in 3D -Imax 3D- The visual *is* the film.
And in Imax 3D, the Audio *is* the film.

Together, VISUALS AND AUDIO transcend the film itself. They transport it from the realm of entertainment, to the realm of VISIONS. And you cannot experience this in a 50" plasma with surround sound in the same way you can in a larger than life screen with with an audio system designed to churn up your entrails and rattle every bone in your body.

 BUT YOU BETTER WELL TRY!

Because Daft Punk has created one of the most amazing soundtracks ever. And the visuals in 3D -coupled with the audio, you CANNOT separate them- can transport you into another realm.

Yes, the acting is merely ok. Yes, the dialogue leaves A LOT to be desired. Yes, it is not terribly original. Yes and yes and yes and yes to any criticism the academics and and film critics want to level against it.

BECAUSE, WHO CARES? It doesnt matter ONE BIT.

Because the soundtrack is GODLY. And the visuals, together with the soundtrack, are something from another world.

So once again:

Buy this film. Buy it, then buy the biggest TV you can. And the Loudest surround-sound system you can. Then sit down, live it, and cry, knowing there is no tv big enough, or sound system loud enough, to make justice to the EXPERIENCE that is Tron Legacy.

Proceed to ride a motorcycle at full speed on deserted highways at 3 am with the Soundtrack implanted on your brain.

Only then will you understand why it will not solve your absolute longing, but it will at least help.