I really enjoyed this lighthearted action movie.

It's a fanciful contemporary spin on the myth of how the three brothers Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades, long after having dethroned and permanently immobilized their titanic father Cronos, have become less powerful due to the declining devotions of the people. "Not without reason" says Perseus sarcastically when he's visited by Zeus with this complaint.  Now here you have the first departure from the Tradition: per Hesiod, the declining sacred religious devotions of people signalled the fall of the golden age into silver, then bronze and iron.  IE, devolutionary descent into skepticism and religious non-observance harms the people rather than the gods.  But of course we live in the modern secular "kali yuga" ourselves and so the common inverse of the Tradition principle is the pretext instead.  Well that's enough semiotic interpretation there.  Back to the story.  So anyhow Old Cronos is about to bust loose, and hence the need for Zeus to enlist demigod assistance to whup the titans up oncet 'gin.

I wasn't overmuch bothered by this modern heresy against the ancient polytheistic Tradition, since the movie immediately presents not as grand tragedy, but as  fun and humorous.  Rather than the pretentious desacralized "Troy" of diretor Wolfgang Peterson, which plods unhappily along without the gods, as a kind of secular revisionist unsuccessful stab at improving the Illiad.

The all star cast was not wasted on this film.  Liam Neeson makes a fine Jove, a wee bit humbler than one imagines Zeus Olympias, but it works in the story.  Ralph Fiennes really steals the show as a conflicted Hades who goes the wrong way due to his ressentiment of his brothers, then turns back to the right path in time to save the day.  Unexpectedly, Vulcan has a big role in this film, which I found very imaginative, depicting him as a kind of skinny elder tinkering sage more so than the jealous cripple often conjured by the Hellenic myths.

Sam Worthington perplexes as Perseus a bit, overplaying the reluctant hero theme a bit.  I realize he was probably trying to bring value to a simple action role but hey Sam, thats all it really was. The demigod aspect of the character was just backstory.

Rosamund Pike plays an Amazonian Andromeda, all dressed up in a tunica intima and bronze greaves etc, leading the phalanx and so forth.  An even odder twist, but one sense that Hollywood now demands a female presence to fetch in more ticket sales.  She played it well even if it was obligatory and she's easy on the eyes for sure.

The special effects to me here were totally satisfactory and can't really help being besides the point with this series since the original "wrath of the titans" evoked by the title-- the one with Laurence Olivier and Harry Hamlin-- was unforgettable for how cheesy the stop-motion effects seem today.

All in all a good rental for watching with one's teenage kids.  I totally recommend it served up with pizza and beer.