The beauty of the Masterpiece Theater production of Pride and Prejudice (with Colin Firth) is that it was so "spot on".  For most, it is the definitive production of Jane Austen's most famous novel and makes thinking of Darcy in any other way almost next to impossible.

But interpretating a great novel and its iconic characters in a different way is the fun of it all.  What did Emily Bronte really mean by it, and did she herself know?  Do we know more than the author; or did the author know more than us? As Heathcliff says here, "Where's the harm in it?" If one has done their homework and has read the original, enjoying other possibilities or even taking literary license is all the more compelling and revealing.  So this newest rendition of Wuthering Heights, while less faithful to the novel, is all the more enjoyable for being so.

The sreenplay's author has taken liberties with the story that strike a chord.  The DVD version is more enjoyable and does far more justice to Hardy's Heathcliff than TV version with its awkward and unbalanced separation a week or two apart.

I had never knowingly seen Tom Hardy before and, therefore, could not compare his Heathcliff with any of his other work.  There is no question that his performance dominated the production and, all the more so because Cathy, as portrayed by Riley, was more waiflike than the novel portrays her.

Hardy's Heathcliffe is dark and vengeful to be sure.  But his Heathcliffe is a also a product of repeated and devasting loss, abuse, self-loathing, and self-protection.  He and Cathy are starcrossed characters as much or more than they are products of free will.  As Heathcliffe says here, "I could have been a good man".

Heathcliff may be hateful and vengeful.  But Hardy plays him throughout with humanity.  For those seeking to look at the story in a different way, his Healthcliff is vulnerable, tragic, redeemable and truly victimized.  Perhaps not Bronte's portrayal exactly, but another view and way to continue to enjoy a great story of the ages.