I bought this DVD because I saw it advertised as an advanced workout in "Fitness" magazine. I would say it delivers as promised. I have been a big fan of beachbody products (especially Insanity and ChaLEAN Extreme). This workout is in the same range as a first month Insanity workout or the ChaLEAN Extreme "Burn it Off." Without the insanity groundwork, I think I would have found this workout over the top. It would be a good workout to substitute into those programs for variety. A few of the tabata drills were quite intense (e.g., the squat thrusts), especially if you did them at Level 3. I did the Level 1 mountain climbers rather than the "donkey kicks, for example, because the donkey kick types moves seem to put a lot of pressure on my neck and shoulders but that is a personal limitation of mine. At about 56 minutes from start to finish this is a long workout. The actual tabata sections is 8 drills, done 8 times each, for 20 seconds on and 10 seconds rest. That adds up to only 32 minutes. The other 24 minutes comes from the warm up and cool down and some relatively simple, fairly low intensity recovery moves such as side steps. I wish there were a few more minutes of warm up (especially some stretching). I found the cueing to be good. There is no clock on the screen but Amy counts pretty consistently and gives you a 10 second and/or 5 second warning to help give you the drive to finish a section. Amy herself does the middle level of difficulty, maybe because she needs to talk through the whole workout, and she does the workout too. I feel sorry for Sarah (the girl who does the highest level) as some of the moves (like the first tabata drill that is jumping jacks at the low level and leaping into the air jumping jacks at the highest level) are quite intense, especially if you can't take a break because you know you might be on camera. At about 15 dollars, this video isn't too expensive. Since there is only one workout it might get repetitive after a while. But it is much cheaper than buying a beachbody type program that offers more routines but might cost ten times as much.