I am not going to elaborate on the technical details of the DVD collection of Season Six, since more nit-picky people have already gone in depth into that area.  My review is going to focus solely on the episode quality in terms of characters and plot.  This season really marked a turning point in the X-Files series.  Notably, the filming had been moved from Vancouver to California, which removed some of the dark grittiness that fans had come to expect and love.
Following the success of the movie and presumably an influx of new fans that had not followed the previous five seasons, the writers/producers opted to wrap up the conspiracy mythology (episodes "Two Fathers" and "One Son") and replace it with a more ambiguous plot ("Biogenesis").  We bid farewell to the members of the Syndicate and the "human controlled" government subterfuge.  This sudden change of track upset many hardcore followers of the series.
As far as the recurring characters go, we see surprisingly little of the fan-favorite Cigarette Smoking Man.  The character of Mulder's informant Marita Covarrubias continues to atrophy with only one appearance this season.  We also see little development of the newly introduced FBI Agents Diana Fowley and Jeffrey Spender who succeed Mulder and Scully at the X-Files.  Alex Krycek makes a few appearances, but little is done with his character.  The only shining point is the introduction of the character of Assistant Director Kersh, who will continue to be a thorn in the sides of Mulder, Scully, and Assistant Director Skinner until the last episodes of Season Nine.
In this season, the groundwork is being layed for the eventual departure of Fox Mulder (most notably "Biogenesis"), that will continue to build throughout Season Seven until it culminates in Season Eight.  Scully's character is paid tribute in many episodes including "Milagro" and "Tithonus".
The weakest aspect of this season is the downturn in writing quality.  The gritty tension and suspense of former seasons seem to be almost gone in the episodes of this season.  We see the writers turning away from scary and often thought-provoking plots to the most inelaborate forms of humor.  Stemming from this comes the WORST X-FILES EPISODE EVER: "The Rain King".  This is the perhaps the first time that I could not wait for commercials simply because they were more entertaining than the episode itself.  The writing quality also changed in presenting stories with a modicum of credibility.  That was what made the X-Files great...just enough reality to make an otherwise preposterous story believable.  And scary things that are somewhat believable are almost always ten times more frightening.  That philosophy departs the series towards the beginning of the season with "Dreamland I" and "Dreamland II" that, although amusing, are nothing more than a rehash of a plot twist that has been used time and time again in science fiction.
Despite its shortcomings, this is still the X-Files and I love it for its good and its bad.  Well, maybe I don't love "The Rain King" episode.  The episode "The Beginning" does well transitioning from the X-Files movie and the Season Five finale.  "S.R. 819" builds an interesting Skinner subplot with technology that few realize exists.  "Two Fathers" and "One Son" do a tidy wrap up of the former mythology episodes with a satisfying conclusion.  Fans of the Lone Gunmen will adore "Three of a Kind".  And "Biogenesis" does an adequate job initiating the new mythology episodes and sparking the beginning of Mulder's departure.
As a fan, I believe that all the DVD box sets are a "must own", but bare in mind that this season definitely marks the "passing of the threshold".