This film has a lot going for it.  The acting is really well above the norm, both by the teens and the adults.  In fact, only Juno's oddly-disconnected best friend (playede by Olivia Thirlby) comes across as more caricature than character.  The rest of the cast is remarkable in the simple depth they convey to otherwise fairly run-of-the-mill roles.

Few people will probably agree with me, but I think the line that encapsulates the tone of the entire movie comes during the first meeting of Juno and her father with the adoptive parents.  The adoptive mother (played by Jennifer Garner) asks whether Juno and her father believe people were born for a specific purpose (obviously readying to say that she was born to be a mother).  Juno's father, without missing a beat, answers "Yes, heating and air-conditioning."

I laughed.  Then I had to think twice.  Did he mean it, or was he being ironic?  Was he unhappy with his lot in life, or did he just know that no one really feels that they were "called" to be HVAC technicians?  I'm not sure, but given the father's dry humor and unruffled demeanor, it seemed to me ironic but without bitterness... much like the rest of the movie.

The only thing that detracted consistently from this otherwise fine film was the horrible, HORRIBLE soundtrack.  The lyrics of the songs are about as poor as any one human can possibly write.  If it was just background, that would be fine, but the songs bookend several points of the movie.  Acoustic guitar was a good choice, but the songs in question are so poorly written thay can't even keep rhythm.  Allow me to except the first two stanzas of the song from the last scene:

"You're a part time lover and a full time friend,
The monkey on you're back is the latest trend,
I don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else,
But you

I kiss you on the brain in the shadow of a train,
I kiss you all starry eyed, my body's swinging from side to side,
I don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else,
But you"

Are you kidding me?  "I kiss you on the brain in the shadow of a train?"

Enough about the music.  The movie, while substantively different from much of Wes Anderson's stuff, will be enjoyed by those who liked Rushmore.  All in all, a fine film, with an honest and non-polemical discussion of teen pregnancy.