I won't waste your time comparing this travesty to the even worse previous film. I'm just going to jump right into why this film isn't worth your time. Ghost Rider: Spirit of Vengeance is a total mess. The story is paper thin and poorly told. You won't know whats going on until well after the first hour, and even then whats happening isn't very interesting. Nicholas Cage is given a lot of crap for this performance and, while he is moderately terrible, it isn't entirely his fault. This movies dialogue is atrocious, sounding stiff and unnatural the entire way through. No one is given anything remotely interesting to say, so why is there so much talking?

If all that wasn't bad enough the one reason anyone might want to see this film, the Rider itself, is terribly mishandled. Though the directors were clearly going for a darker, more brutal Rider, this one just comes off as spastic and goofy. Cheesy camera tricks, and the Riders laughable roaring kill any chance of the character actually being threatening. while the effects for the rider are greatly improved over the previous film, all it does is turn people to ash. While that may sound cool, it happens so quickly it loses any impact it might have had otherwise.

Now for the few good parts: The fantastic Idris Elba is the only likeable character in the film, but unfortunately is not given nearly enough screen time. The main antagonist, not Roark but Carrigan, early on was very impressive as a villain. In the previous film, the antagonists were pasty emo nothings that put me to sleep, so I was very impressed to see the film give a plain old vanilla mortal the chance to show that he could take on the rider; and then half way through he is transformed into a pasty, emo villain.

Nothing about this film works. The action is clunky and unsatisfying. The story is pitifully anemic and goes nowhere. Nick Cage hams it up for all he's worth, killing any chance at a mood, and the Rider is a twitchy, boring mess. Unless you are a die hard Ghost Rider fan, stay far away from this film. If you are a die hard Ghost Rider film, just read the comic, and stay far away from this film. Do not buy.