Being a huge fan of the original "Hills Have Eyes" I was more than a little bit worried that this film might be a complete and utter discrace to it's predessesor, BUT just like all of the other remakes of great movies that come out, I simply had to go and see for myself in front of the big screen, I must say after watching this remake I was anything but dissapointed or anything of that nature it was actually suprizingly quite good..., I have been following Aja's horror films for a couple of years now and must confess that I am a huge fan of his work and his style of film-making, I think he has a unique talent of making a horror movie not only bloody, nasty & sadistic but also packing more than your average puch of edge of your seat suspence.I do not easily get scared but I was more than a little bit jumpey in some scenes.

I really love Wes Craven and I thought that his "Hill's Have Eye's" was right up there with his finest movies (Nightmare On Elm Street & Scream) ... One sad thing was that in the 70's he did not have the budget that he has now-a-days and he had to settle for some poor quality lighting,speacial effects and the most important ... run time (How long the movie is), though sometimes I do love low-budget horror films I really think that if he would have had a budget he could have added a better ending to the film, thats one thing that Aja did make sure to improve one, the ending, he added quite a bit of time in the new one to have a few more effective closing scenes.

Aja did what i think all remakes should do which was

(1) Follow the original's plot closely.

(2) Make the Reamke more technoligiclly advanced

(3) Dont Change the Charactors from the original

(4) Dont Change the Ending

Now in my veiw point Aja did all of that but the last one,... he had a better ending!

The only thing that I personally did not like in the remake is that they made the people eaters villian guys looking corny cheesy and more than a little stupid, I think it would have been more scary if they would have had the same kind of people from the original, now those guys were creepy.... but hell lots of others disagree with that... just an opinion

Overall I think that both the original and the remake are both very good and would recomment them to all horror fans, do keep in mind that this film is very bloody and is "R" border line "NC-17", (DONT PAY ATTINTION TO THE NC-17 RATING ON THIS WEBPAGE, IT'S NOT NC-17 THEY CUT A SCENE AND IT WAS BUMPED DOWN TO AN "R".

Overall: B+, Me likey!