The Express is the story of Ernie Davis, a running back for Syracuse University that won the 1960 Cotton Bowl MVP on the way to helping his team with the National Championship, and then followed that up with the 1961 Heisman Trophy. He was drafted by the Cleveland Browns who wanted to team him with the legendary Jim Brown, also from Syracuse University, in the same backfield.

As others have noted, the filmmakers did take some license with the story of Ernie Davis. Although having seen a documentary about Davis, the departures from the truth aren't really very big. For example, the filmmakers portray Davis as having been drafted by the Cleveland Browns. In fact this is not true. He was drafted by the Washington Redskins, but because the Redskins at that time were owned by noted racist George Preston Marshall, Davis was immediately traded to the Cleveland Browns, owned by Art Modell.

The action scenes are among the best football scenes I've ever seen in a movie. I could almost feel the hits Rob Brown, portraying Davis, took during some of the games portrayed in the film. It was also saddening to me to see the on field racism that Davis had to endure at Syrcause. Jackie Robinson was subjected to taunts and sometimes an occasional dirty play at second base, but as a football player it seems Davis was routinely subjected to dirty hits after the whistle. What Davis went through perhaps was even worse in some ways than what Jackie Robinson endured.

I also think that the movie does a good job of portraying Davis as someone who initially only wanted to be a running back and didn't much think about national politics, turning into a responsible thoughtful adult who wanted the chance to do anything his skills could enable him to do, and not be limited by the "unwritten rules" of the time.

The only gripe I really have with the film is that in my opinion it is too short. After Syracuse wins the National Championship the next season is not portrayed. That said, the last few scenes are very poignant and well done.

I'd recommend this DVD to any football fan, especially college football fan.