Buffy's third season is the first season of the show to be consistently good - the worst episode ("Gingerbread"), is perfectly decent.  The show's core writing staff have joined by this point, so there's no need to rely on the mediocre writers of the first two years.

Season 3 is also the only season of the show that starts dark and becomes lighter.  The first third of the season does a fantastic job of exploring the emotional effects of season 2's devastating finale, which distinguished Buffy from most series which would have been eager to get into the regular flow of things.  Because the character's situation has actually become better by the end of the year (Angel comes back, and the Scoobies' friendships heal), the finale lacks the power of "Becoming, Part Two" and "The Gift," and it's not as unconventional and interesting as "Restless," which is unfortunate because this season is arguably the show's best.

The central villains of season 3 are Faith and the Mayor, who are to father-daughter relationships what Spike and Drusilla were to husbands-and-wives.  These two characters genuinely care for each other and are extremely likable because of it.  Eliza Dushku and Harry Groener's performances are magnificent, but their connection to the Scoobies is less powerful than Angel's in season 2.  Many have pointed out that they serve as a dark parallel to Buffy and Giles, but that's simply not as troubling as when the hero's lover killed the charming Jenny Calendar.

Season 3 was the beginning of a trend in Buffy seasons for the plot episodes to be good, but not the best the show had to offer (the only exception is season five's finale "The Gift").  The best episodes here are Lover's Walk, The Zeppo, and Doppelgangland, humorous episodes that were enormously important to the characters of Spike, Xander, and Willow.

Season 3 and 5 are the only two seasons of the show with no bad episodes, and season 3's Faith and the Mayor are certainly better villains than 5's Glory.  There are two reasons season 3 is only my second favorite, however: Angel and Oz.  Angel returns in season 3, but it's obvious he cannot be Buffy's lover after the events of last season.  As he is neither the villain nor the romantic lead this season, it feels like he is simply being used to advertise next year's "Angel" spin-off.

Oz, on the other hand, is a great character who SHOULD have been fun here.  This is the season he is in the most episodes of.  Unfortunately, he fades into the background for most of the season.  None of these episodes focus on him, the way season 2's "Phases" and season 4's "Wild at Heart" do.

Season 3 isn't a great season for every character like 5, but it still contains fantastic episodes, particularly for Xander, Cordelia and Willow.