*

As mentioned numerous times already, "Oldboy" is based on a Japanese "manga" story. Being otherwise unfamiliar with that original story, my own personal observations and interpretations about this movie may in fact be way off. Then again, it just may very well be possible that there were indeed some very significant and deliberate departures from the original source material which just might validate my interpretations and observations -- like, for example, the different variations of the (essentially) same story between the book and movie versions of Orwell's "1984." Several sources have in fact already stated that the movie adaptation is "loosely" based on the original manga story and deviates from it to a large extent. Even if this so, by my being limited with only the film version of "Oldboy" as my guide, I can only address the deeper aspects of this story based solely on what seems apparent to me from that perspective.

When an obnoxious, boozing, womanizing salaryman is kidnapped off the street right outside of the police station where he was being detained for drunken & disorderly conduct (on his little daughter's birthday, no less), he finds himself imprisoned in a "hotel room" where he is fed, monitored, drugged, and mentally conditioned. Once he realizes he is in "for the long haul," as it were, he begins to reflect on who just might have hated him enough to torment him in this way and for such a long time -- it just so happens that he has a very long list to work from, as he has stepped on many toes throughout his life. With only a television as his companion, he uses it not just to keep track of time and watch the march of world events but also to educate himself on things both educational and news related -- one of the things he learns is that he is now considered a dangerous fugitive, accused of having murdered his wife.

Just when he is beginning to get the sense that his efforts in planning his escape are about to pay off, he finds himself mysteriously released on the rooftop of a building near where he was snatched off the street fifteen years earlier. His only motivation now is to find out who did these things to him and to his family, find out why they were done, then to exact revenge.

Discovering the "who" part of the mystery is not too difficult, as the "who" in question leaves very deliberate clues on how & where to be found, even by way of making personal audio/visual and physical contact at unexpected times & places. The "why," on the other hand, requires a bit more digging. When we finally do learn "why" at the climax, it turns out that it was all part of an extremely elaborate-- and extremely demented --revenge plot the kidnapper had actually devised and carried out. The kidnapper's excuse for "revenge," however, had little to do with what his "victim" was allegedly guilty of having done to him -- the sadistic "cat-&-mouse" game he had set into motion was far less about getting "payback" for an egregious trespass as it was much more about trying to asuage himself of his own guilt.

= [[ * W A R N I N G * ]] =

. . . what is about to follow borders on

~ ''spoiler territory'' ~

(proceed with extreme caution)

Regarding the big (and very disturbing) "reveal" at the movie's climax, again, I have no way of knowing whether the original "manga" story went in this direction or not, so this interpretation could be all wrong. But as I view it (at least from the standpoint of the "film" version), I have very strong reasons to believe that that the main character's (Oh Dae-soo's) "girlfriend" ("Mido") is *NOT* whom we are made to believe (read: "suspect") she is! I base this interpretation on several very blatant (but oh so subtle) observations:

First (during one of the earlier scenes) is when Mido impersonates a newspaper reporter asking about the surviving member of Dae-soo's family, gets the address, and is told that conversation was maintained with the individual over the years, but that it was becoming more and more difficult to converse, since the person had been so long gone from Korea and that after having been totally immersed in a new language and new culture the command of the 'mother tongue' was slipping (which would be very consistant with the type of situation being described).

Another observation concerns the contents of the "box." When Dae-soo rifles through the pages of the "book" he sees a "very select" collection of what his adversary had intended for him to see. Under the stresses and pressures Dae-soo was already under as a result of his hunting for the truth and fighting any/everyone connected with it, would it not be a safe bet to assume that his mind would not have been focused and rational enough to question, examine and "scrutinize" what he was being manipulated into viewing? If he had clearer faculties at the time, where he could analyze not only the "visual" cues but also what was being told to him, Dae-soo might have noticed that what he was looking at revealed large gaps with very little "transition period" space between "past and present," and he might have realized that he was merely being "effed" with in an attempt to get him to reach the "conclusion" he did without examining the "evidence." Think about it -- what was happening to him in this scene is similar to what happens to each and every one of us day after day in the "15-second sound bite" world we live in (for example, recall that "no emphatic statement" was ever made that there was any connection between the "September 11, 2001" attacks and Saddam Hussein, yet close to half of the U.S. population still believes that there was some sort of a connection, with people who rely on "TV News" [soundbite-based media] as their primary news source being most susceptible to the mistaken belief, while those who rely most heavily on "Newspapers/Magazines" and the "Internet" [scrutinizing & analysis-based media] are shown to be the least susceptible to the misinformation).

Another giveaway relates to the person who "kills" Dae-soo's knowledge of what his adversary had implanted into his brain. Note, first of all, that when Dae-soo is being "released" the "first" time ("physically"), it is the same exact person he calls upon in the end to "release" him for the last time ("psychologically"). Why? Obviously it is because Dae-soo knows that this is the same person who was responsible for "mentally conditioning" him in the first place to keep him "trapped" at the orders of his adversary; and knowing this, Dae-soo calls upon this person himself (knowing this person's effectiveness at "mental conditioning"), but this time in a desperate plea to be "set free." Apparently moved with pity and compassion at Dae-soo's repentance at his realization that his actions throughout his life have done much to hurt and disrupt the lives of so many people, the "programmer" decides to "kill" the "memory" of the "truth" that Dae-soo was confronted with in his adversary's penthouse suite. Why was this done (and why was this particular memory-- and not any of the others --selected to be expunged), rather than going to work on Mido and instead making her forget her feelings for Dae-soo? It defies logic -- UNLESS it is a clear indication that Mido is not truly whom Dae-soo was "made to believe" that she was!

So who was Mido, really? Some girl who got selected at random? Someone else (or a relative of someone else) who p!ssed Dae-soo's captor off? Or someone some other person had an issue with and wanted to have tormented in their own twisted act of revenge who's case got "transferred" to-- or "bought out" by --Dae-soo's tormenter? Who knows. But it seems obvious to me, after some careful examination, who she is NOT!

Keep in mind, Dae-soo's captor did not necessarily have to link the two actual people that he claimed they were together -- if he could get away with it by "faking" it, all the better! Think about it: a THREE-FOLD way to torment his victim -- (1) by making Dae-soo suffer for the rest of his life by having him believe that he had done something socially reprehensible to somebody he loved; (2) by making Dae-soo suffer for the rest of his life by placing him in a situation where he must continually hurt the woman who "loves" him by constantly avoiding her and rejecting her love for him; and (3) by placing Dae-soo in the extremely uncomfortable (to say the least) "Catch 22" situation where either his silence on the issue or his revelation of the "truth" causes nothing but internal conflict and has the potential to do irreparable damage to Mido. Then there is the "fourth" torment -- after having suffering through this new wave of guilt, Dae-soo could always find out later the truth that Mido really was not whom he had believed she was, which would cause him even more guilt and pain because of how he would have treated & behaved around Mido prior to his finally having learned the "real" truth, which would also would have resulted in even further torment to himself for having so blindly rejected the love she would have tried to give to him and upon which he could have sought genuine comfort.

Dae-soo's captor had already proven time and again that he was a master manipulator who knew how to use psychology and a person's deepest fears and taboos against them -- so why would it be so difficult to accept that what Dae-soo was being put through was actually one very well crafted and highly elaborate "mindphuk"? What was "really" in Mido's "box" which she (and we) never got a chance to see? Could it have been empty all along? What about the thug's "hand"? Sure, it was his ring, but whose "hand" was it? (could it have come from a cadaver via a nicely bribed coroner?) -- and was the prosthetic the thug was "wearing" quite possibly a "phony"? Was Dae-soo's "internet cafe" owner friend "really" murdered as he was told over the phone? See my point?

Of course, like I said, I could indeed be all wrong, and the original "manga" story could emphatically tell me that I am merely grasping at straws in order to envision a more palatable outcome to this story, and to a certain point I will confess that these explanations as I've laid them out would certainly sit better with my conscience. But even if the original manga does indeed go the "more taboo" route, I still express a great deal of confidence that my observations-- based on the "film" version --are valid.