This film does a reasonably good job of telling the story of the Tuskegee Airmen and the 332nd Fighter Group in a way that is both entertaining and informative at the same time.  However, it does suffer from one major flaw.  That is perpetuating the myth that the 332nd Fighter Group never lost a bomber they were escorting to German fighters.  The fact is that 25 bombers were shot down by German fighters while being escorted by the Red Tails.  This was discovered by the Tuskegee Airmen, Inc.'s own historian, William Holden in 2006.  Like all myths, this one has it's basis in truth, namely, a June 21, 1945 War Department press release which stated that as of February of that year the 332nd had flown 200 combat missions with the 15th Air Force and and served as escort to heavy bombers without loosing a single bomber to enemy fighters (*during* that period).  This would later be unintentionally misquoted and thus the myth was born.

The fact that the 332nd FG did, in fact, lose bombers to German fighters in no way takes away from the heroism of the pilots of the 332nd or from their contribution to the victory over Nazi Germany.  In fact, to embellish the record of the 332nd FS in this way (purely by accident) is really a dis-service to the pilots and ground crews of the 332nd FG.  The role the men of the 332nd FG played helped to de-segregate the armed services after WWII and contributed to the civil rights movement of the 1960s therefore is of far greater importance than whether or not they were able to prevent the loss of any bombers to German fighters.  Limiting those losses to only 25 was an outstanding accomplishment that the pilots of any fighter group in Europe would, and should, be dammed proud of.  That the Tuskegee Airmen, in doing so, were able to return as many sons, brothers, and fathers that made up the crews of the bombers to get home in one piece to their families, as the trailer of the film talks about, is a testament to the heroism and skills of the pilots of the 332nd Fighter Group (and that of the ground crews that kept them flying)!

For more information about the Tuskegee Airmen and the 332nd Fighter Group, see the book "Freedom Fighters" by J. Todd Moye published in 2010 by Oxford University Press.  ISBN #978-0-19-538655-4