I have seen HOWARD'S END and i thought it was great,but Merchant-Ivory have outdone themselves with this film.  The story centres around Mr Stevens{Anthnoy Hopkins} a Butler in Darlington Hall. Many of the  scenes are done in flashback. As he reflects on life with Lord  Darlington{James Fox}. He realizes how misguided his loyaties were to Lord  Darlington.  Mr Stevens was so commited to his work that  practically destroed his personal life. When his father is dying upstairs  he still serves drinks. Also he pushes away the one woman who truly loves  him,this being Miss Kenton the "very capable" Housekeeper.  This book is done totally through Mr Stevens mind so I would have thought  it would not be suitable to be made into a movie, but M-I have proved me  wrong.  This film manages to balance the plot and sub-plot perfectly  without harming either. Hopkins and Thompson give the performances of their  lives. Hopkins makes Mr Stevens seem more than simply  cold and uncaring  but a man who is attractive and kind,but who unfortunately cannot let his  feeling known ,so much is the restraint of his office. Hopkins lets us see  his feelings in so sutle way with simply an eye movement or eyebrow, never  letting go of the veneer of control but you can feel that underneath he is  terrable pain.  Miss Kenton sees that MrStevens has qualities wit and  responbility.  Emma Thompson  plays her as an independent  ,spirted,inteligent woman who unfotunalely falls in love with a man who can  never express his feelings for because of duty and repression. Your empathy  is more with her in the end. As she tries to anything to get him to open up  to her. The scenes particulaly at the end are heart-wrenching. One scene  paricualy touched me was when she comes back late after anousing she is  leaving and Mr Stevens is angry with her probally out of jeasouy, Miss  Kenton believes that if she can hurt or make him angry enough it might  force him to admit his feeling. The plan back fires and all she manages to  do is hurt him and herself even more.  If you are looking for a simple  love story with passionate love scenes then this is not for you, but if you  are looking for an interesting ,thought provoking story of repressed love  and misguided loyaties then this for you.