Some friends and I were looking for something to do after an evening of cigar smoking and poker. We stopped into our local video store with no idea what to watch. By chance, I picked up the case for Eulogy and saw that it had Hank Azaria and Ray Romano in it. The premise seemed funny, so we picked it up. Turns out, we did very good.

Eulogy is the story of the Collins family reuniting for the funeral of the grandfather. There are two sons and two daughters of the man: The Child Actor Turned Porn Star (Azaria), the Sleazy Negligent Father (Romano), the High Strung Bitch (Debra Winger), and the Rebellious Lesbian (Kelly Preston). The story is told from the point of view of Kate Collins (Zooey Deschanel), daughter of the porn star. She is given the task of writing a eulogy for her grandfather. As she tries to find good things to say about the man, she discovers it's much harder than it sounds, especially because the Collins family is hopelessly dysfunctional. As she tries to survive her family, she also has to deal with her feelings for an old friend-turned-boyfriend.

This movie is funny. Each of the characters have their own little quirks and style. The coming together of so many interesting people creates hilarious tension and problems. Whether it is the precocious and mischievious children of Ray Romano, the family's distrust/curiousity about lesbians, the suicidal widow, or Debra Winger's husband who can't talk out of fear of his wife, all the different characters gel in a delightful way. The movie also excels at making these vastly different people seem like they really did at one time live together as a family.

Zooey Deschanel (who you might remember from Elf, one of the best Christmas movies ever) is perfect in her role as the struggling-to-be-normal girl who just wants to bring her family together for a moment. She's a fine actress and I'm eager to see what she does with her career. Ray Romano is extremely funny in his role as the Sleazy Negligent Father. I've never laughed so hard at the man. Hank Azaria also plays his role well, the child actor trying to be well adjusted in adulthood. Debra Winger (the Bitch) is extremely funny and her whole attitude makes you love to hate her. The only character who lacked as much substance as everyone else was Kelly Preston. She was just the rebellious lesbian and didn't have as much nuance. Even so, the entire cast did a great job.

My only complaints about the movie revolve around a certain hidden secret of one of the characters. I felt that it kind of cheapened that character and perpetuated a certain clich&eacute; that I find to be annoying. You'll understand what I mean when you see the film. The secret was still played humorously, but I felt it was unnecessary and distracted from the movie.

All in all, I'm surprised that I've never heard of this movie. I wish I had because this is an outstanding film. It is one of the better dark comedies to come along. This ought to go down as a classic. Rent it, buy it, do what you have to do to see this movie.

MY GRADE: A