Layer Cake is a black comedy that is a good deal more comedic than black.  Daniel Craig, not yet beefed up to play James Bond, is great as a mid-level drug dealer who is doing quite well and doing the smart thing:  investing most of his money with a reputable broker, recommended by his boss, Jimmy Price, played by Kenneth Cranham.  Craig's character is planning to use his investments to retire early, something he'll be announcing soon.  But first there are a few loose ends.

Jimmy Price's boss, occupying the very top layer of the multi-tiered ranks of big-city British drug dealing, wants his wayward daughter found and returned.  She's fallen victim to the same sneeze-inducing white powder that makes them all rich, and she's split from rehab with her junkie boyfriend.

Locating runaways is not Daniel Craig's thing, so he farms the job out to a couple of young friends, guys who spend a lot of their time very persuasively affecting a cultivated British accent because young American female tourists respond so much better to their affectations than to their natural working class patois.  The guys are slick, smooth, glib and funny, and more effective at tracking down missing junkies, especially dead ones, than I had expected.

Anyhow, by now you've got the plot, insofar as there is one:  Daniel Craig wants to retire early and the rest of the movie consists largely of obliquely connected events, each one just another obstacle in Craig's way, and each one more hilarious than the other.  Plot or no plot, this is Daniel Craig's best film, and the supporting cast is sensational.  Every time I see Sally Hawkins, no matter what sort of role she's playing, I think of her as Slasher, a foul-mouthed, histrionic, gun moll and girl friend to one of the more inept characters with whom Craig has reason to deal.

Colm Meany is also excellent.  In his funniest scene, he beats Daniel Craig to a pulp atop an open freezer filled with filleted fish, thinking Craig has betrayed him.  Hard to believe that 007 could get so badly battered by a middle-aged Irishman, who subsequently apologizes for his error.  But, as we've already noted, this was before Craig beefed up.

Craig's sidekick, Morte, played by George Harris, has an uproarious beating scene of his own, when he exacts revenge on a no-count jerk who's reckless over-indulgence cost Morte ten years in prison.  He almost kills the guy!

I know.  I know.  How can beating be funny?  But even if you don't like violence, you've just got to laugh.  Imagine the three stooges given the appearance and demeanor of 21st Century British sophisticates, but who are otherwise pretty much the same as always.  You'll even laugh when you see a self-assured hit man take a hit himself from a bullet fired right through the scope of his rifle and into his eye.  Hardly a sound.  It takes a second or two before we figure out what has happened.

Though advertised as an action-packed thriller, Layer Cake is really a vehicle for a series of loosely related, very violent, very funny, sometimes complicated scenes of the sort that Brits do so well.  (Think of Rock'n'Rolla.)  This is definitely not a film that takes itself too seriously, though the acting and comedic timing are as good as they get.  The ending will prompt just about everyone watching to do a double-take and exclaim with total surprise "What the ... !!!

Layer Cake is definitely a keeper.  I've watched it a dozen times and still find it very entertaining.  And be alert for the tension-relieving joke about an Irishman who found another man with his wife ...