Planet of the Apes is a great "What if" tale. There have been oodles of movies where the heroic space travelers lurch forward in time to find earth in a completely different state. But when "Apes" was released and we found that the planet was ruled by monkeys, that took the cake! Charlton Heston is one of our heroic space travelers here. The theory of talking ape evolution is very interesting even if not very likely. In one of the later of the Ape series we find that humans are using apes to perform menial tasks but an uprising takes place. They are not only used as slave labor but mistreated as well. Monkey racism I guess you'd call it. That uprising is spearheaded by Ceasar, a talking chimpanzee (played by the late Roddy McDowall).

The series takes us forwards and backwards to show us how the simian race was able to take over in the first place. Unfortunately, the later films in the series are not the same caliber as the first but some of you may still find them enteraining nonetheless.

As for the first Ape film, you would expect that the ape makeup would count for 90% of the acting but gratefully, the acting is top notch in spite of the makeup jobs. The ending really blows you away because you're involved in the film so much that you aren't trying to figure out where the astronauts have landed. You just want to know why the monkeys are talking. Also interesting is that the apes have their own heirarchy. The gorillas are the brutes so they are all soldiers. The chimps are intelligent so they are the scientists and the orangutangs are the elite so they rule the land.

There are a lot of extras here.  Good stuff, not the stuff they threw on the floor while making the film.  The documentaries are interesting to watch as well as the creation of the facial makeup.  The process was brutal.  Once the makeup was applied, the actor had to stay in it until shooting for the day was over.  If they wanted to eat, most of what they ate had to be sipped through a straw.  There are cast interviews and Roddy McDowalls home movies as well.  Lots of fun stuff here.

You must have this dvd.  Get it now!