I never had an interest in watching this movie. It wasn't until I heard "Colors of the Wind" on the Disney Princess Collection CD that I decided to watch it with my three year old. My daughter enjoyed the movie, but I loved it even more. The music is beautiful, and Judy Kuhn's voice is amazing. Mel Gibson also sings a song with Kuhn, "If I Never Knew You" and I thought his voice was pretty amazing too. This movie strays from some of the historical facts/legends of the real Pocahontas, but who cares. Most of us would probably be bored and depressed if the true story of Pocahontas was told in this movie. This is a beautiful love story of two people from two-different worlds who meet under unfortunate circumstances. And the ending isn't predictable like all the other Disney happily-ever-after movies which makes this movie even more heart-felt and intriguing.  I also felt Disney did a wonderful job in sending a message to our children about respecting the land that we have been blessed with. Although some see the portrayal of the greedy settlers as racism (which really it was only one governor in the story who was greedy), I saw it as a lesson for us not to take nature and our surroundings for granted.

The animals in the movie were cute and entertaining for the youngsters; but the story itself is for adults and was beautifully told in a Disney kind-of-magical-way.

And for those who are thinking of buying Pocahontas 2: Journey to A New World... I enjoyed Pocahontas 2: Journey to A New World. Although it got a lot of bad reviews, I thought it was worth adding to my Disney collection. You get most of the original characters (minus Mel Gibson as John Smith), and Judy Kuhn again sings beautifully in the movie. I think a lot of people are disappointed with the ending, which historically is the path that Pocahontas does choose....I don't want to spoil it for those who haven't seen it. Needless to say, it doesn't quite measure up to the original Pocahontas but I thought it was interesting to find out what happens to Pocahontas and John Smith. Younger children will absolutely love part 2 because the story involves Meeko and Percy quite a bit, and they are pretty quirky!