I wrote this review mainly because most I have read seem to fall short of describing what the film is really about.  Plenty has been written about the various symbols in the film, and about its brilliant use of music.  I'll leave those oft discussed elements to the many other reviewers of the film.  I prefer to focus on the main theme of the film, as I see it often misunderstood and even more often ignored altogether.  I don't see it as being about Alex, or about a futuristic police state, or about a violent criminal getting what he deserves, or about society victimizing rebellious youth.  I see the movie as a conceptual exploration of violence.  
Clearly, we are not meant to sympathize with Alex.  We're meant to focus on the violence as a concept.  Even the cult of young (mostly) men who are enthused by the violence in the film, are focused on just that - the violence.  Not Alex.  
Everyone in the film except for the female sex objects shares a similar callous disregard for life and utter lack of any transcendent morality.  Alex and his droogs are the obvious example.  So are the psychiatrist and the prison workers.  However, one other notable example in the film is the State.
The politicians are notable, because they not only callously use Alex as a tool to achieve their ignoble ends, but they also use violence itself.  Historical context is important here.  In modern times it has become commonplace for politicians to employ fear as a tactic to achieve ends, and fear of violence is probably the fear most often used.  The film was made in 1971, when politicians - most successfully at the time was Nixon - exploited fear of communism and fear of crime.  Nixon was the "law and order" president.  Violence had erupted in urban areas in the form of riots.  Fear of communism had driven the country toward the Vietnam war, and violent protests in the country had erupted as a result of fear of Vietnam.  Fear of violence begat fear and violence, which only begat more of the same.  Violence in the film is, among other things, a tool for the State.  More precisely, the people's fear of violence is their tool.
Alex's victims' response to the violence enacted upon them is a overwhelming desire for revenge.  I see this as a fundamental aspect of the film.  Everyone, under the right circumstances, is capable of an utter disregard for life, humanity, and any principles that hold the two in high regard.  Their revenge on Alex is simply another manifestation of the violence that people are capable of.  The bums, his former droogs, the crippled writer - all of them not only become violent, but they REVEL in their violence.  Just as Alex did.  
Alex's punishment is nothing less than the loss of his own free will, and indeed the ability to act according the most fundamental impulse of all life - self preservation.  He is rendered utterly defenseless and sent out into the same world full of violence that he came from.  Alex has is very humanity stripped from him.  Who could deserve such a punishment?  If we hold as a principle the idea that society should not mete out punishment that is "cruel and unusual", we should rethink any impulse we have to think Alex deserves such sanction.  What could be more cruel and unusual than being forced to live as a non-human?
Or, a more frightening question, are we really as civilized as we pretend we are?  Do we really believe in our hearts that the human form of life a uniquely moral one?  If we think Alex deserves his punishment, do we really believe in human dignity?  Is it possible that a people who would see Alex punished in this way are every bit as nihilistic as Alex himself?  
To that set of questions, there is a flip side.  If we think Alex doesn't deserve such punishment, what does this say about us?  Clearly, Alex never feels any real remorse for his crimes. Furthermore, at the end of the film we understand that since he's been "fixed", and since he immediately indulges in not only Beethoven's 9th once more but also sexual fantasies, he has reverted right back into the being he was before, violence and all.  Is this a good thing?  Can we afford to be so principled in our defense of humanity that we're willing to suffer Alex's inhumanity?
This, I think, leads to the central question of the film:  Are violence and human nature inextricably linked?  This is a theme in Kubrick's other films.  Kubrick is often concerned with the dark side of human nature.  In 2001 we see the evolution of mankind itself rooted in violence and self interest.  We see a vision of mankind in which he seems to have transcended such earthly baseness, and set off into space in an effort to innovate, explore and understand his universe.  Noble pursuits.  Yet, in that very endeavor man has spawned a creation (Hal) and inadvertently imbued it with the same capacity for cold violence.  Hal's nature, it's need for self-preservation, seems linked to the humanity it was designed to mimic.  Violence and human nature are further explored in films like Dr. Strangelove and Full Metal Jacket.  
A Clockwork Orange seems to explore the very concept of human violence.  It seems to imply that perhaps the only way to rid ourselves of the violence which has plagued us throughout history, and which we fear so terribly, is to deny man his own free will.  The way we define the words "humanity" and "inhumane" demonstrate that we regard our nature as being intrinsically non-violent.  This is basically a pessimistic film, at its core forcing us to face a thought we may least want to.  Namely, that violence is a basic part of what makes us human.