I give this movie five stars for several reasons. But the main reason is because if I were to look back at the "classic" Disney movies and pick one that exemplified all that they were about, Bambi would be the quintessential movie.

I can say, being a 25 year old male, that this is one of the cutest and saddest movies I've ever seen, and I've seen a lot of cute and sad movies. I'm sure I saw it several times when I was a little kid, maybe even a baby. And I liked it then. But I'm surprised to find out that I probably like it even more now. I find it very refreshing to watch a movie that can go ten minutes or so with no dialogue, and still tell a story. It's never slow, and always far from boring. I don't think I found the movie funny when I was a kid, but Thumper cracks me up now. I think my favorite part is where Bambi is learning new words.

A previous reviewer, defending the movie, said the story wasn't simple. I disagree. But I think that the simplicity of the movie is one of the strong points in it. The filmmakers relied on simplicity and the beautiful animation of nature to carry the story. And although we still have beautiful animation in Disney movies (Aladdin, for example), however different the style may be, the stories have become more complicated, for lack of a better word. And it's not just the stories, Disney keeps trying to outdo themselves in all areas, most annoyingly editing. I love Aladdin, and think it's almost on par with the Disney classics of 50+ years ago. However, I think it suffers from too much "razzle-dazzle" editing and fast animation. I couldn't even get through Hercules (only Disney movie I have never fully watched) because it annoyed me so much. This is what movies have become thanks to the mtv-style editing and "in your face" presentation that people will pay for. That might just be my opinion, and not hard evidence to criticize a movie, but that's what I think. I don't need an epileptic seizure to enjoy a movie.

All in all, Bambi is a great example of how a short, simple movie can live on LONG after its release.

PLUS - I had to open it and pop it in right when I got it to see what the next classic is coming out. I'm so excited to see that CINDERELLA COMES OCTOBER 4TH!! Might be my favorite of them all.