First and foremost, don't view this movie if the commercials/previews piqued your interest.  Book of Shadows (BoS) was marketed as something it's not.  The storyline is almost totally unrelated to that of the original Blair Witch (which wasn't half bad, although no movie could have lived up to the hype associated with it).  What few elements *are* related to BWP have little bearing on the course of the story, and they could have been replaced or removed without dramatically altering the film.  For this reason, I feel that BoS is, in fact, NOT a must-have for Blair Witch enthusiasts.
BWP and BoS share a common theme: perception v. reality.  BWP is a decent movie because it approaches this theme in a way viewers can understand and relate to.  We all jump at noises and creep ourselves out sometimes, and most people are familiar with the inner battle between mounting panic and a fading, rational voice that insists, "This is not happening, there's an explanation for this."  BWP is a tactful, dare-I-say intelligent film that knows viewers are more frightened by an unseen, immaterial menace than by full-on gore.
BoS, on the other hand, features gore as early as its beginning credits sequence.  While BWP has a simple plot unhampered by gimmicks and powered by fear of the unknown, BoS is powered by more conventional foreshadowing, physical violence (or the threat of it), and an unoriginal whodunit vibe (a la Scream, if you will-but not that entertaining).
Characters are perhaps BoS's greatest weakness.  The characters in BoS are full-on straight-up crazy, and they seem as if they were created to satisfy the more self-involved sectors of the Goth/wannabe-witch crowds.  Furthermore, they're rendered flat and predictable moments after their introductions.  Only the scholar's wife proves interesting, but early hints at her development don't pan out, leaving viewers unsatisfied.  (Granted, the characters in BWP are not necessarily well-rounded or dynamic, but they *are* human.  We watch them joke around and shop for groceries-everyday, sane activities that allow the audience to identify with and better accept their responses to stressors later in the film.)
BoS earns its two stars by refusing to answer questions and resolve issues at the end of the film (true to BWP) and by succeeding in creeping me out (which is not terribly difficult to do).  BoS is a pretty awful movie, but it's an acceptable late night party choice if you're looking for a "horror" flick that will create dialogue in a group (mostly about how bad it is) and still give you a touch of the heebie-jeebies.  Keep your eyes peeled for the nutty sheriff, who is hilariously Southern/Old West for a Maryland town-he comes across as the embodiment of a certain chicken mascot.
Oh, and the "special features" on the BoS DVD are uninteresting crud narrated by a Twilight Zone reject, so don't say I didn't warn you.