What if you could travel to parallel worlds? The same year, the same Earth, only different dimension. A world where the Russians rule America? Or where your dreams of being superstar came true? Or where San Francisco was a maximum security prison. My friends and I found the gateway. Now the problem is... finding a way back home.

Buy this box set and see what happens, the set comprises the 2 hour Pilot, 8 Season One and 13 Season Two episodes.

The first two seasons of the series were the best and most thought provoking of the entire series, they examined how a different outcome in major historical events (such as who won World War 2, the non discovery of anti-biotics or the Atom Bomb) could have resulted in a very different present day earth. The main focus was on a group of 4 Inter Dimensional travelers trying to find their earth while randomly 'sliding' between alternate realities (parallel earths), with no control over how long they stayed in the respective dimension. They were also burdened with the fact that if they did not leave when their 'Timer' reached zero they were stuck on that reality for 29 years.

My Gripes on the box set:

1) The packaging:

While the foam holder gives the appearance of multiple earths which is a nice effect, it is a terrible idea for medium to long term storage. That type of foam 'breaks down' over time and eventually won't be able to hold the DVDs in place, in addition it makes it difficult to replace the plastic case as ther is no space between the foam and inside of the box. A 'REAL' booklet should also have provided instead of the 2-page booklet glued to the back of the box which holds an episode list and ads for other Universal TV titles.

2) The order of the episodes on the DVD:

Fox did not originally air the episodesin the intended order and several of the early season one episodes actually connected if you view them properly. "Summer of Love" begins with the Sliders wearing the clothes they had on at the end of the pilot movie. "Prince of Wails" begins with the Sliders wearing the same clothes they wore at the end of "Summer of Love" (not to mention that it begins with a pay off to the "Summer of Love" cliffhanger ending. I believe if you are going through the trouble of putting out a box set then you should do it RIGHT.

The correct viewing order for Sliders is as follows -

Pilot (2 hour)

1st Season 1995 (Fox)

Summer of Love

Prince of Wails

Fever

Last Days

The Weaker Sex

Eggheads

The King is Back

Luck of the Draw

2nd Season  Spring 1996

Into the Mystic

Time Again and World

El Sid

Love Gods

The Good, the Bad and the Wealthy

As Time Goes By

Gillian of the Spirits

Obsession

Invasion

Post-Traumatic Slide Syndrome

In Dino Veritas

Greatfellas

The Young and the Relentless

Though not a perfect series as there were a bunch of inconsistencies and fall off in quality in later seasons, it is a good buy and Season 1 & 2 deserves high praise as they were exceptional and worth collecting.