There's no wild car chases in this film. No high-tech special effects, no  nubile teenage girls or vampires or serial killers. Gee, no wonder no one  went to see this film!
And that is such a shame. "Deterrence"  is one of those films that sets no grandiose expectations, so when you  finally see it, you will be caught like a deer in headlights -- and by the  time the final credits roll, you will be emotionally drained.
Almost like  a stage play, "Deterrence" is set entirely in a roadside diner in  rural Aztec, Colorado. American President Emerson is doing some last-minute  campaigning for the primaries before the polls close when he and his  entourage are trapped by a ferocious blizzard. They seek shelter in the  diner.
Emerson is not an elected president. He was the VP until the  sitting president -- an extremely popular one -- passed away. Now, he's  seeking his party's nomination and to be voted in on a mandate from the  people.
The movie is set in 2007 and the political climate of the world  has changed dramatically. The Middle East is no longer considered a hot bed  of unrest. Saddam Huessen has passed away and his son now rules Iraq.  However, relations between Japan and China are tense, as well as things on  the Korean peninsula. China just may be on the verge of invading Japan.  Consequently, most of America's armed forces are stationed in that part of  the world, not the Middle East.
While holed up in the diner and following  election results on TV, the President receives word that the young Huessen  has led a Republican Guard force of a half-million troops into Kuwait and  has taken over. He's now poised to invade Saudi Arabia and has both  chemical and biological weapons at the ready. The US, with its troops now  out of the Gulf, will need nearly 10 days to respond. That's way too long.  They need someone there now!
One other thing: I didn't want to reveal  this, but another reviewer already did (and I say shame on them because  it's a critical plot point): President Emerson is Jewish. This isn't  revealed until halfway through the movie. Add this to the fact that he's  not an "elected" president and you can image the obstecles he  faces as he tries to negotiate with the Arabs. 
Kevin Pollack, a  wonderful stand-up comic and occasional actor plays the role of the  president. (You may recall Pollack's terrifc performance in "The Usual  Suspects.") This role should be a defining moment in his career and if  there was any justice in the world, he'd receive an Oscar nomination. His  performance is very measured and touched with such great nuance it's  startling. Pollack's Emerson is a man of great integrity and strength, now  facing a choice no human being should ever be forced to make. In fact, one  of the citizens stranded in the diner charges, "You've got no right to  do this!" But Pollack, as Emerson, repsonds, "No, you're wrong.  I'm the ONLY one who has the right to do this!"
To do what? Ahhh -  to say would be to give away too much of the plot. But the moral questions  that confront this president leave you checking your own compass and I  found my stomach twisting into knots on occasion.
Timothy Hutton gives a  wonderfully manic performance as Emerson's mercenary Chief of Staff and  Sheryl Lee Ralph is fine as the National Security Advisor.
As I said,  though all the action takes place in the diner, there are enough subplots,  twists, turns and surprises to keep you welded to your seat waiting  breathlessly to see what happens next.
This is not a movie one can watch  casually. It requires full attention because most of the story is told  through David Mamet-like dialogue, delivered by the actors in brisk,  staccato bursts. If you miss anything, some plot points may be hard to  conceive, but let me assure you: this is a marvelous screenplay -- crisp  and tight. There's no plot holes and everything that happens is  frighteningly plausable.
One previous reviewer complains about the fact  that the "big" secret revealed at the end of the film was known  only to the president and not his staff. He thinks that seemed  implausable.
What he apparently missed was this: This "secret"  was told to Emerson while he was STILL vice president. It was told to him  by the president while on his death bed. Emerson and the president, whose  shoes he is trying to fill, were very close. It was a mentor/protege-type  of relationship.
As the movie develops, it becomes clear that Emerson,  due to the odd political position he finds himself in, does not entirely  trust his staff and is a man more likely to make his own decisions. When he  finally reveals the breathtaking climatic  "secret" in the  closing moments of the film, we definitely say, "Oh, wow!" rather  than, "Oh, puhleese!" I thought to myself, "I would have  kept that secret away from these guys too!" Additionally, there is one  rather major hint at one point during the film that points to the  President's secret, though you won't realize it till the film is over. I  will say this: it involves the French (now who would have guessed  that?!).
"Deterrence," while packed with suspence, crackling  dialogue and outstanding performances, is definitely a thinking-man's film.  And I guarantee you will be thinking about it for days!
Rent it... video  tape or DVD, it doesn't matter. Chances are, you will then want to buy it  and add it to your collection.