1. I am an American Studies-majoring student and was irritated that the film depicts Smith leaving (when really he was sick) and then showing up in some garden to see Pocahontas. In reality, she did not know he was alive until she chanced to see him in a London Court. I guess Malick was just trying to distance his film from the Disney Pocahontas, but it wouldn't have killed anyone to have Smith get sick and then meet up with Pocahontas in a court scene--she still stayed with Rolfe, which is interesting. I thought that some of the elements, emotional etc., were a bit cheesy. THAT SAID . . .

2. This is quite possibly one of the best films I have ever seen. The emotional stuff is important, touching, and deep. I cried when her father sent her away. The love story was not "weird" because Colin Farrell is some 15 (or so?) years older than Q'orianka Kilcher (who is flat-out amazing!). It's just sweet and realistic. And to say that it is mushy or adolescent is kind of . . . well, chauvinistic. I like it that Malick did a film about guys being guys in Vietnam, and then decided to explore one of the most important stories in American history through the eyes of a young girl.

I did not find it boring, although lots of people apparently did. This film is amazing. My boyfriend is a film scholar and pointed out the Heidegger-ian influences (Malick translated some of his work). He talked about Malick being a "poet" working through the medium of film, and that is a good way to sum up the movie and all of the conflicting ideas I had about it. It was sufficiently "gritty" for a historical film (I can't stand squeaky-clean history movies, like Seabiscuit, where everyone's hair has JUST been cut and their caps aren't quite worn in yet! Ha!) and it was nice to show how gross the Europeans were. I mean, what the hell were they DOING there? For God's sake. It makes you wonder. But still, it must have been quite amazing for these two peoples to "discover" one another.

The natural element of the film was exquisite. The score was kind of "eh." And the Wagner . . . well. Kind of colonialistic. But it worked all right as a film. I can't wait for the extended version (dang film cutters).

So, from someone who is an American history and lit major, and who writes stories, I enjoyed it from all angles. Yay.