This movie looks simply amazing! The color, texture and detail provided by HD-DVD are superb, this is a showcase title for the format. First a word about my setup, which is nice but far from optimal. The HD-DVD player is connected via HDMI to a Sanyo PL-Z4 projector, with an approximately 140" picture thrown onto a light beige wall. The room has little in the way of light control so we watch movies in the evening when there is less ambient light leaking through opaque cloth shades. Hardly the ideal environment to view a movie for most home theater afficionado's but my family and I thoroughly enjoy watching titles no less for it.

Now about the title - there are no compression artifacts or mosquito noise to be found anywhere. None. I also bought this title on SD-DVD and have watched on an upscaling DVD player, both on a 57" crt bigscreen and the projector, and there are a distracting number of the aforementioned artifacts and mosquito noise in both cases. They're most noticeable on large surface solid colors, of which there are many in this movie. You'll see them "dance" and shimmer on SD-DVD, not so on HD-DVD.

The colors are bold and bright when appropriate, but what really struck me while watching the title were the drabbish gray scenes such as the snow-covered streets of the town with the factory looming in the background. You can make out more detail, without any obvious edge enhancement problems found in the original SD-DVD version. The lights from the townsfolk dwellings were suffused with a soft glow in this latest version, not a ringed mess.

The story itself is not necessarily an improvement over the original, rather its told from a slightly different perspective, giving more insight into Willie Wonka's character, and updating the other kids (Violet, Mike Teavee, etc...) to reflect a newer generation of youngsters. Mike feels a bit weak, he's portrayed as a videogame crazed violent kid in the sequence that introduces his character, then sort of disappears into the background the rest of the movie. Veruca and Violet by contrast are more prominently featured, and you'll develop more antipathy towards their characters by their actions throughout the movie. Augustus also suffers a bit but since he's the first to get ousted from the party, it's logical that he won't be as fully developed as a character. His romp through the initial scene whilst in the factory is pretty good however.

Overall I'd give this 5 stars not only as a visual and audible feast for HD-DVD owners, but felt the movie was a great update to the original and stands on its own merits, even in SD-DVD presentation.