The world is a dangerous place. It always has been, it always will be. Even here, in the west, with all our so called civilization and culture, it's still unsafe to walk the streets.

Take any major city, even my hometown of Calgary. There is crime. Petty crime, white collar crime, so called `victimless' crime, and of course, the daddy of them all - violent crime.

Canada prides itself in being low on the totem pole of violent crime involving firearms. But the fact remains thus - no matter where you are, there will always be a need for guns. The criminals will always be able to get guns, no matter what the police and the government tries do to about it.

In the states, and correct me if I'm wrong, but it's been said that there are more gun-shops than there are McDonalds.

The same can't be said about Canada. We've got strict rules governing weapons here in Canada. You have to apply for a F.A.C. or Firearms Acquisition Certificate. This involves a background check and other safety measures.

You even have to proof you have successfully completed a firearms safety training course or test, or have been certified as competent to use a firearm.

Pretty amazing, isn't it?  What's even more amazing is, despite these strict rules, what kinds of weapons can be brought into the country. I recall reading the Calgary Sun earlier this week and looking at the picture of the weapons seized. There was an assault rifle with a GRENADE LAUNCHER!

A Grenade Launcher!

It's pretty damn clear that even in Canada, if you want a weapon, you can get it. And yet

If you're willing to pay the fees.

You can get your weapons from the criminal element, or from Gunrunners.

I guess you could almost take Lord of War to be a biography, a life story of one particular Gun runner named Yuri Orlov, a Ukrainian Immigrant to the states.

He started out his career as most criminals do. He started small. But as time passed and he gained experience, he went from being a small time runner to one who had ties in very high places, and buyers world-wide.

Although like a drug dealer, he followed a simple rule. Don't use what you sell. It served him well. Keep yourself separated from your clients. Don't get involved except to seal the deal.

Can you, however, stay neutral? Can you deal in weapons of death and destruction without feeling the ramifications, one way or another?

Can you ever get out? Can you have a chance at ever going legit?

And, the biggest question. Can you deal with the consequences of your actions? Can you sew what you've reaped, even if you've tried to stay at arms length?

Lord of War doesn't glorify Gun-runners. It doesn't show it as a glamorous lifestyle, even if the money is good.

It shows you what they deal in, and what it's used for. One man's freedom fighter is another man's terrorist. A Hero to the people on one side, a practitioner of genocide to another.

This movie isn't sugar coated, nor does it shy away from violence.

As per usual, Nicholas Cage does a fine job of portraying a smart and resourceful criminal. And let's not forget that, he is a criminal in this movie.

One last note... as with anything, we here in North America should never take for granted what we have. Sure, there is crime, there is hunger and homelessness, but when you consider what it's like in other countries, especially the Middle East and Africa, and even parts of Europe and Asia, we've got it lucky.

After all, we could live in these countries where `Lords of War' earn their daily bread.

4 out of 5