Now THIS is what DVDs are all about.  This disc looks and sounds beautiful.  I'd give the audio 4 out of 5, and the visual maybe 3.5.  However, the most important part of this DVD is the concert itself.  This one evening's performance could be the definitive statement of Yes's music.  Forget that Steve Howe's guitar tone isn't very good, and just concentrate on the sound of these musicians as a whole, creating magic in your living room.  Words can not describe how amazing this concert is.  I really regret that I didn't make the trip to Toronto to see them when they come around with the symphony.
Now, for criticism(which is what people really want in these rewiews).  The orchestra sadly is not loud enough in the mix (in my opinion)  there are times when you see horn players blasting away, but can barely strain to hear the notes they are playing.  I have to admit, Steve Howe is one of the great guitarists of the past century, but I don't like the way his guitars sound on this recording (with the exception of the acoustics).  Overall, he's got the treble too high, and while he really stands out in the mix (which was probably his intention),  high notes are piercing at loud volumes.  That being said, the DTS track sounds great (obviously superior to the dolby).  Nice low end on this disc, and the bass solo in Starship Trooper will knock your socks off!  
Which brings me to another point of complaint:  the layer switch on this DVD is right in the middle of Starship Trooper!!!  Why this happened is beyond me.  They could have easilly put it at the start of the track.  This song may be one of the strongest of the night, but the layer switch gets really annoying.  However, the point of the song where it occurs if probably the best place for it.
oh well.  Other low points on this disc are "And You and I" and the same 3 encores that they've played at every show for the past 40 years or so.  I've seen all good people, Owner of a lonely heart, and roundabout (while all great songs) fail to impress. Perhaps because the orchestra is not encluded on thse songs. Personally I was looking forward to hearing roundabout with a nice string arangement, but no such luck.
I've been HIGHLY critical of this disc.  Keep in mind that I've outlined probably the ONLY negative features of this amazing performance.  The vocals are AMAZING, all the harmonies are bang on.  It's incredible to see these old men singing so prcisely.  In response to a review that I just read of this disc, I actually really enjoy the keyboardist's jumping around and rocking out.  He (and the orchestra) added a very youthfull energy to the show.  Jon Anderson gives me chills during Close to the Edge.  Chris Squire rocks out as usuall.. vocal harmonies amazing, but bass playing less precise than in the past.  It's ok though, you can tell that he's having the time of his life (and maybe getting into the drink a little much...  watch the Dreamtime documentary on the 2nd disc, then watch what chris is doing in between songs, and let me know what you think)  but we all know he's maybe the best bass player perhpas ever. 
I think the guy that wins my "coolest dude" award has got to be Alan White.  Sure he's wearing spandex, but sometimes you gotta be who you gotta be.  His playing is so emotionally powerfull, it's like he's putting his heart and soul into every beat.  Just look at the expression on his face and you'll understand.
all in all, this disc could be the highlight of your music collection, even if you don't consider yourself a Yes fan.