The first time that I saw this movie on video, I was disappointed and told my 'Nicholson fan' friends so.  Since the ending is a surprise, when I watched it again I saw the whole storyline in a different light.  I actually found myself watching it several more times to catch more and more of the layers and details.
As annoying as Nicholson was in this movie, one cannot take his character [Buddy Rydel] at face value.  When you consider the ending and go back over all his dialogue, you begin to see that he was very up front and truthful about most everything he told Dave (Sandler).  I later became convinced of the sincerity of Buddy (Nicholson) in other situations--like provoking Dave with Galaxia.  If you watch this movie more than once you put on different lenses and see from a different vantage point.
I agree with other reviewers--the first viewing may have you despising Nicholson and giving a thumbs down to the film.  I did at first.  Now it grew on me to be one of my favorites..
One of my favorite characters in this movie was Chuck.  I love his wild looks, and many of his lines are my favorites... "no more fudgicles" and "you're not ready" - the Granada stuff, etc.  
WAs Buddy just being outrageously disgusting and perverse when he flipped off rival "Linda's best friend" ...? - I think not.  If you watch the film with a different paradigm, you can see that Buddy was truly doing "his work", and that included not only protecting Dave (Sandler), but having the innate manly ability to discern an enemy to Sandler and "the cause" he's undertaken to help.  
There are even a couple of times when Nicholson is even impressed with how his student [Sandler] fared during the process...in my opinion when he brought "the girls" to the club (strong move) and also when he dealt with his childhood nemesis who had become a monk.  That has to be the funniest scene in the movie!
If you have ever known a nice guy with implosive anger, this will really strike a chord.  If you have ever sat in a group counseling session (like 12 step), then you will laugh noddingly.
Anger Management.  At first I didn't like it.  Watched it some more, and I'm still seeing new things in it.  I really like it a lot.
Jack Nicholson - annoying and dopey OR masterful?  Nicholson is not going to (at this stage in his career and life) allow himself to be in a dud movie.  I say that this one has some layers to mine for gold...
Hope you will give it another try!