I must admit, I'm not particularly a fan of E.M. Forster's work, (Passage to India...shudder) and though I may be judging unfairly for I have never read 'Howards End', I can say with perfect confidence that this film is superbly and fantastically flawless. The lead performances sparkle, the supporting actors shine, the score is beautiful and etheral, the writing is masterful and the directing is inspired.

Out of all the Merchant Ivory collaborations, this is the most visually stunning of the lot (though 'The Remains of the Day' draws a close second). I must warn you however, this is not a fast-paced action-packed Hollywood thriller, for those you must turn elsewhere, I'm afraid. 'Howards End', instead, provides a thought-provoking look into class struggles in Edwardian England.

Margaret Schlegel (played to perfection by the wonderous Emma Thompson) and her fiery passionate sister Helen are caught between two worlds: the new gentry and working class poor. They are not poor for they live mainly on their inheritance, which, by the looks of it, is not meager. The two girls are inherent philantropists, helping whomever they deem fit to be helped. One such candidate is a young clerk who spends the majority of his time dreaming of something he can never attain. The sisters take a shine to this particular young man and try to help him all they can. The situation quickly complicates as the Wilcoxes are introduced. The elderly Mrs. Wilcox, whom Margaret has befriended, soon passes away, leaving as her last wish that Howards End be transfered to the ownership of Margaret. Of course, the snobbish Wilcoxes do not desire that, so they simply disregard Mrs. Wilcoxes' wish. However, fate will out and events twist and turn to a welcomed conclusion at the end.

It is easy to see why Emma Thompson garnered the Academy Award for Best Actress here; her performance is truly perfect. From the cool, collected, perfect hostess to a passionate believe in equal rights for all, Thompson shows her wide range of emotions from crying to angry outbursts to quiet suffering. Her Margaret Schlegel is extremely likable, a solid pillar of good sense and sensibility. I must also mention the performance of Anthony Hopkins as Mr. Wilcox. Their scenes together are powerful and spontaneous, the product of artistic genius and wonderful timing.

Don't miss out on this film!! Watch it, and I guarantee you won't be disappointed.