I love this part of the book and audio version said by Bobby (Colin Farrell): "There is a knitting of times, the past tumbling into the future. It comes to me suddenly, in the form of a surprise: I've got what I wanted. A brother to work beside. A revised future shining like a light bulb over our heads. Here is what's unsayable about us: Jonathan and I are members of a team so old nobody else could join even if we wanted them to. We adore Clare but she's not quite on the team. Not really. What binds us is stronger than sex. It is stronger than love. We're related. Each of us is the other born into different flesh. We may love Clare but she is not us. Only we can be ourselves and one another at the same time." (From Pt. 3 of the book when Bobby and Jonathan are almost done setting up their restaurant, Bobby is thinking this to himself about Jonathan and their life together)  What classic prose Michael Cunningham! Why didn't you have Bobby deliever this brilliant reflection in the movie?  I can't help remember Plato's Symposium and Aristophane's speech on the origin of love exploring the theory that we are halves of our original wholes. Which could be one interpretation of many of Michael Cunningham's movie and book. Bobby needs Jonathan to complete his other half and the same with Jonathan. I found this movie to be one of my all time favorites along with To Kill a Mockingbird a classic. I am glad Michael dropped the Eric character out of the movie and kept Jonathan mother's character mostly unchanged unlike the book where she goes through a transformation. I do have two minor criticisms one Colin Farrell's wig he wears in the beginning (1982) is so bad looking; I can't understand why they didn't do a better job with such a minor item. Second, the ending was wonderful especially the cinematography when Jonathan goes up to the house and Bobby waits a moment before he joins him -- the lighting inside the house was wonderful what a great ending but before this final scene the movie has Jonathan mention that his ashes should be in the same area  where his father's were. In the book he says IF something happens to me then he wants his ashes scattered. There is no such conditional in the movie. It is Eric who will die of AIDS in the book. I wish Michael would have not spelled it out so bluntly in the movie about Jonathan. Although I know many died at the time in the 80's. But these are two minor points.  It is too bad this film is not doing better box office...but then there are always the bigots and anti-gay people and those who only like action and violence films --the majority of Americans. Go see this film and buy the video when it comes out in November!! Read the novel and get the unabridged audio version with Colin Farrell and Dallas Roberts (the two stars of the movie doing a great dramatic reading!!!)