I am not a sports fan. Period. I'll watch the occasional few minutes of Michael Jordan in a tense playoff or a fantastically close Super Bowl on occasion, but beyond that, I have no interest.

  I do find  few movies about the fanatics who drives themselves to excel interesting or the fanatics who drive people to excel, to go far beyond what they themselves thought possible.

  That's what "Miracle" is all about, a coach named Herb Brooks who drove a group of mostly collegiate hocky players to fuse into an Olympics winning team, trumping the Soviets, who had won four consecutive championships.

  Kurt Russell plays Herb Brooks. What we see is a narrow, driven man who has only one goal: to produce an Olympics winning hockey team through his coaching. And Russell conveys that image beautifully, leaving us with an impressiona of a guy we probably wouldn't want to spend any time with (and, likewise, we would be of no interest to him) who ignored his family and browbeat 20 some kids into submission until they became a functioning team.

  It's a great movie about a coach. The players, as they were in the real incident, were submerged to the coach's will and ego. The hockey scenes are exciting. I don't know enough about hockey to comment on their authenticity and, frankly, I don't care.

  In the end, it is the story of a driven, selfish man demanding that his recruits obey his every order and become, to a large extent, automatons until they fuse into a single whole, a team. Look closely and you will see the techniques of every successful army since the beginning of time: slavish obediance while preserving the capability to make individual decisions. It worked for Alexander the Great, Julius Ceasar, George Patton and Herb Brooks, when he applied it to hockey.

  A lot of the film centers on rah-rah American patriotism which needed a boost after feckless Presidency of Jimmy Carter who cancelled American participation in the 1980 Summer Olympics to "protest" the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. It is a nice feeling to see the United States portrayed positively in a Hollywood movie, for a change.

  Overall, "Miracle" is an entertaining movie about an eccentric coach, the team he built and the results they acheived. Best of all, it's a true story.

Jerry