Rosebud.

This is perhaps one of the most well known opening lines to any film, and it comes from an appropriate source.  Orson Welles's Citizen Kane.  On may be surprised to learn however, that a film long considered on of the greatest films of all time wasn't a hit when it was first released.  In fact, released in 1941, the film was not a cultural marker of its time.  In an era beset with stress and the harsh realizations of reality, the general audience demanded a lighter fare in their movie-going experience.  The musicals of MGM were big at the time, and it wasn't until Welles own The Stranger was released in 1946 that he reached a mass audience.  However well received The Stranger was, Welles despised it, calling it his worst picture ever.

Citizen Kane only received lukewarm reception from the public.  The critics immediately hailed Welles as a genius, and the worst reviews rated Citizen Kane as a masterwork of their time.  There was no indication of the fact that almost sixty years after it was made, it would still be hailed as the best movie of all time by the American Film Institute.

The question begging to be asked is, "What makes this film so good?"  I honestly had a lot of trouble reconciling myself to the fact of its greatness.  Like so many objects of art in our time, once something is proclaimed great by a number of people, it has a certain sort of inertia that will not allow people to consciously question its greatness.  I know few people who have worked their way through such dense behemoths of books suck as Tolstoy's Anna Karina or Joyce's Ulysses.  Even with this fact, they remain classics of their languages, and held up as gold standards, which we should only hope to reach.  But I digress.  The problem with our generation is that we don't have the attention span to realize when we are seeing a master storyteller at work.  Many of the methods Welles pioneered have now become so overused that they have fallen in the realm of the clich&eacute;.  The cinematography we see was at the forefront of Film Noire, a genre whose popularity lasted well into its second decade, and whose only defeat was the rise of color in film.  Also seen is the non-linear story line, a device we can see influencing directors as diverse as Francis Ford Coppola and Quentin Tarintino.