Reading the previous reviews, I felt compelled to add a comment or two.  Clearly, the film has its problems.  Several of the skits, even with their current short durations, could be clipped to give the snapshot effect Jarmusch is going for without leaving the audience feeling like they're watching "real time" action because of its new trendiness in the art for art's sake camp.  What the film sometimes misses is that the uncomfortable silences and pauses in meaningful activity in our everyday lives often feel far more important at the time than they are in "the grand scheme of things" and so the flatness of some skits due to that kind of inactivity shows that it didn't translate into film for that particular scene.

However, there are some moments I will never forget.  At moments provacative, simply amusing, or so penetrating into the human spirit, I would gladly pick this one up again, like a good book whose few rocky moments can be skimmed through.

By far, I was most touched by the last sketch, "Champagne."  It is a well-crafted scene in all ways and works well independently from the rest of the film.  However, it also works in context as the sentiment it evokes feels natural as a closing remark for this film.  The lighting is beautiful.  The sound is very well-done, playing between silences, natural noises, the gentle lilt of speech and the soaring notes that float in from the music heard.  William Rice and Taylor Mead possess a grace that is seldom seen these days.  They play their roles with a finesse that marks a deeply emotionally-invested individual.  You want to connect with them.  Watching people briefly interact over coffee and cigarettes throughout the film, if one makes it to "Champagne," one feels as if a connection was finally solidified between characters, while so many others tried and failed or made brief and tenuous connections only.  Also, with this last, as an audience member, we are finally allowed an entrance into that world in an interactive sense because we hear the music found only in one old man's head.  We've been grafted onto that landscape and not only understand conceptually but also feel the emotional impact of what this abstract film is trying to communicate.