It seems to me that all the people giving this documentary 1 star are so closed-minded. They seem to argue it was ok to invade Iraq even though there was no WMD found because Saddam was a thug and he slaughter tens of thousands of his own people. If that's the case, why doesn't the United States invade Sudan right now! Tens of thousands of people are being systematically exterminated at this moment. Yet there is no outcry for the U.S. to intervene and send troops there. Like Iraq, the government is killing it own people. Like Iraq, it has no WMD. All we need is video of the dying people in Sudan and a few beheading therefore the U.S. would be justify in sending troop. The arguments these people make for invading Iraq can be made for invading Sudan. Why are we not there? Because that argument is ludicrous. I was all in favor of invading Iraq. But after watching and reading the daily attacks from Shia and Sunni Muslims against U.S. Troops and the death toll nearing 1,000 for U.S. troops, I begin to question why we are there. If the U.S. is so ultraistic, we should be invading any and all countries that perform genocide on its own people. Where was the U.S. in Rwanda ten years ago? So don't tell me that it was ok to invade Iraq because Saddam was a thug and was killing his own people.  The U.S. would be invading God knows how many different countries on a daily basis based on this doctrine. Bush was convinced to invade Iraq because he only filtered out reports that stated so. Never did he have opposite point as to why not to invade. I'm not sure if he intentionally meant to mislead the U.S. for going to war, only he does, but he did. If Iraq becomes another Vietnam, the U.S. will be in Big trouble. And for those people who are so for the war, let me ask you this question, why don't you enlist and go fight? How about sending your adult son or daughter to go fight? Then well see how in favor you are in for the war. It seems funny Bush avoided fighting in Vietnam by enrolling in the National Guards, yet for the Iraq, a good number of National Guards are fighting in Iraq. The real threat was not Iraq, but Iran, which is trying to go nuclear! Where is the outcry for invading Iran?