Knowing how the Emmy nominations are made, I'm not in the least bit  surprised that all The 10th Kingdom was nominated for was `OUTSTANDING  OPENING SEQUENCE'. I'm pleased that it was nominated and I do believe it  deserves to win, but why am I not surprised it wasn't nominated for  Outstanding Mini-series or any of its actors nominated for anything at  all?
1) It's not an established and well-known story.
2) It's not a  true story.
3) It's not short enough to hold the average attention  span.
What is it?
In a word, `different'.
All hail the mighty Simon  Moore, unafraid to create something that contains disturbingly dark events,  and combine them with something so sickeningly sweet that you're afraid  your teeth will fall out from such sugary goodness.
But how about an  intro...
WARNING! CONTAINS SPOILERS FOR THE FIRST PART!
Virginia Lewis is  a waitress who works on the edge of Central Park. Still living with her  father, Tony - a janitor - she has pretty much come to the conclusion that  her life will always be boring. Nothing exciting has ever happened to her.  She has no romance in her life, and seems to face said life with an  attitude that it's something to get through rather than something that  should be enjoyed.
Meanwhile...
Two hundred years after the reign of such  well-loved Queens as Snow White, Cinderella, and the Lady Rapunzel, dark  times cover the 9 Kingdoms. Happily ever after didn't last as long as  everyone expected.
After being held in Snow White Memorial Prison for  seven years, the Evil Queen escapes and promptly turns her stepson - Prince  Wendell, who is soon to be crowned King - into a dog.
Fleeing in dog  form, Prince crashes into a mirror which - unknown to him - is a travelling  mirror. The mirror activates and seeing no other way out, Prince leaps  through...
...and finds himself in The 10th Kingdom.
Otherwise known as New  York.
Quickly bumping into a bike-riding Virginia, both of them crash to  the ground, unconscious.
Back in the 9 Kingdoms (specifically The 4th  Kingdom), The Evil Queen is determined to catch Prince at any cost. As well  as sending three Trolls after him through the mirror, she enlists the help  of a prisoner who is half-man, half-Wolf, and always hungry. But things are  not always as they seem...or not for long.
Thus ends the  introduction.
Intrigued?
I hope so.
Not intrigued?
Fair  enough.
To be able to watch this and enjoy it, you have to have a good  appreciation of the absurd. If you have that, you'll love it.
Let's talk  characters:
Virginia Lewis: Portrayed by Kimberly Williams, best known as  the daughter from The Father of The Bride movies with Steve Martin. This is  her story, and it's an understandable and well-portrayed role. Essentially  she's not a likeable character, but she's someone we all associate with and  understand. We've all been where she is now.
Tony: Greedy, put upon,  inconsiderate, laconic. But he's funny. Really. Brilliantly portrayed by  John Larroquette, he has just the right amount of humour to make him  likeable - not to mention the dose of reality he brings to the frankly  bizarre events surrounding him. Along with other things, he plays the part  of `the audience' - just as things get a bit too weird, he cracks some line  that the audience will agree with and laugh at.
The Evil Queen: Brrr.  Dianne Wiest. Oooo. Just that bit too evil to be that which separates the  good and the bad. Killer rings, too.
The Huntsman: Rutger Hauer rocks. I  think that's all we need to say.
The Troll King: Ed O'Neill. Al Bundy in  make-up, and about as likeable. But that's the point.
Saving the best for  last...
Wolf: Scott Cohen.
The 10th Kingdom is Virginia's story, but if  anyone makes it their own story it's Wolf. Stealing absolutely every scene  he's in, this is a man who ACTS for every single second of his screen time,  and then some.
Child-like, enthusiastic, enjoying life with an effort  that is a joy to watch, acting on all of his instincts as soon as they  strike, desperate to be a good person but unable to resist his wolf nature  to tie people up and eat them.
This is, ladies and gentlemen (pigs and  sows, rams and ewes), an award winning performance. Forget the Emmy awards.  This man has cultivated a huge following in an incredibly short amount of  time.
I've forced many of my friends to watch The 10th Kingdom (all seven  and a half hours, and yes - they are still talking to me), and though  differing in overall opinions (some loved it, some thought it was too  romantic, some thought it just daft), all of them agreed that the best  thing about it is Wolf. In their words he is "funny", "gets all the best  lines," and "carries the entire thing."
Whether or not I agree with their  statements is beside the point: this actor and this character made an  impact, and continue to do so.
Overall...
The 10th Kingdom is far from  perfect. The Troll King's children are unbelievably irritating. It does  drag in places. Kimberly Williams makes me laugh when she cries.
But it's  not that far from perfect.
If you've always enjoyed fairy tales, if  you've always enjoyed romance, if you've always enjoyed humour, if you've  always enjoyed things that are just a bit daft...watch The 10th  Kingdom.
And e-mail me. We'll talk.