Bruce Beresford's Bride of the Wind (VHS), is a film that dramatizes the life of Alma Mahler (Sarah Wynter), told against the backdrop of her successive marriages to composer Gustav Mahler (Jonathan Price), architect Walter Gropius (Simon Verhoeven), and novelist Franz Werfel (Gregor Seberg), as well as her various affairs and friendships with other great creative men of the early 20th century, e.g., the artist Oskar Kokoschka (played by Vincent Perez).

In general, I enjoyed this artistic film. The cinematography is stunning and (I think) appropriately conveys the overall feel of the early 20th century. The music (especially excepts from Gustav Mahler's Symphonies Nos. 3, 5 and 6, and some examples of Alma Mahler's songs performed by Ren&eacute;e Fleming, et al) is outstanding throughout. In general, the performances of the actors range from good to excellent; and the direction is quite good.

Needless-to-say, I'm not really sure of the historical accuracy of this movie. However, whether "Bride of the Wind" is intended to be considered as a `romance film', or a `historical drama', this presentation raises some unanswered questions in my mind; specifically:
1. Why did Alma agree to marry Gustav Mahler knowing that she would be required to give up her career as a composer? Specifically, according to this movie, Gustav told Alma `upfront' that she would be required to give up her career as a composer as a precondition for their marriage (i.e., `Gustav's music' would now be considered `Alma's music'); and she evidently consented.
2. Knowing that she felt that her talents were stifled in her marriage to Gustav Mahler, why did Alma repeatedly enter into other relationships wherein her talents would, indeed, again be stifled?

By the way, I've just begun to read the book that this movie is based on titled, "The Bride of the Wind: The Life of Alma Mahler," by Susan Keegan. Right up front, the book postulates, and promises to explore, the following questions:
1. "What unique quality did Alma have in order to attract and hold the attention of so many outstanding men for so long?"
2. "What effect, if any, did she have on their work?"
3. "Why, in the light of her early promise, did she have such a slender output as a composer (she published only fourteen songs in her lifetime, none dated after 1915)?"
Since the movie, itself, doesn't seem to explore these questions, I'm eagerly looking forward to reading this book! Once I finish the book I intend to watch (and enjoy) the movie again.