After an unexpected delay, Image Entertainment has finally released the full-version of War and Peace on DVD.  And what a collection it is!  The entire film is spread out over 4 discs in a serialized fashion with each disc dedicatated solely to a specific portion of the film.  Additionally, each disc contains cast biographies, notes on relevant history, architectural drawings, and more.  The fifth disc contains lengthy interviews with the production staff as well as original "documentaries" on the making of the film.  All in all, an impressive package indeed.

So, how is the movie?  When I first sat down to watch it my first thought was "What am I doing?  A six-hour Russian film that is almost 40 years old? Is this going to be interesting at all?"  Surprisingly I found the film to be very engaging and held my interest throughout the 6 hour 43 minute running time.  The photography is excellent, the acting is very realistic, and the enormity of the production does bring moments of "Oh my god!" every now and then.  (Seeing 50,000 extras in costume while a battle rages is very impressive!)  But the film is not for everyone.  It does lack the polish of the traditional Hollywood film and the story is sometimes difficult to follow.  The director's style would go from melodrama to experimental with multiple images, odd camera angles, and strange compositions.  (You can definitely see the influence of Abel Gance's Napoleon.)  The battles scenes are the most impressive portions of this film, perhaps of any film to date, and are worth the cost of this disc alone.

The quality of the transfer is excellent despite its flawed film source.  The audio is up-to-date with excellent 5.1 sound separation and strong bass for those booming canons.  Since the disc is not region encoded (for worldwide distribution) it contains multiple audio streams and an enormous amount of subtitle choices.  The English audio & subtitles are flawed.  The English dubbed version has many scenes that are not dubbed but contain English subtitles over the Russian language.  (The liner notes say this version on DVD is the restored version, including originally censored scenes.  My guess is that the non-dubbed parts are these restored scenes.)  As for the English subtitles that appear over the Russian language, they appear to be accurate but often do not materialize during French speaking scenes.

If you have any interest at all in this film, I would strongly recommend this new and definitive release.  At 6+ hours, five discs, and a film production that will never be duplicated again, this is a purchase that will not go unappreciated.