In the movie Some Like It Hot its a great movie and its genre is comic and lovely.It takes place in Chicago and in Forida.This movie is about two musicians that accidentallywitness a gangland shooting and then they the other people wanted to killed them. Morover they two musicians Joe(Tony Curtis) and Jerry(Jack Lemmon)decide to go to Florida to participate to a girl jazz band. The problem is that they cannot go as boys so they decide to dress themselves as girls and to present themselves as JOsephine and Daphne. in they way to Forida they meet a lverlorn singer that is Marilyn MOnroe.Their plan is perfect until  Josephine falls in love with Marilyn Monroe. Then at the same time a old man falls in love with daphne and wants to engage her.

One conflict that the movie has is when the old man tries to engage daphne but she told hin that they can't marrie and she gievs a lot of excuses to him and he says that it doesn't matter that he would forgive her. in addition at the end she says to him that she is a man and he asnwers him that is ok that nobody is perfect. I think that was a good conflict because eventhough she try to get away with it he accepts her without having a problem.The usual is that he wouldn't accept her bor being a man, but that didnt matter to him.

The character in this movie are really good actors all of them had a great actuation.The only thing that was different is that the gangster got killed and i think they didnt have a good acting. all the sets wre good except for the one that i just talk about. The lightning in the movie was very creative it was very good, the costumes wre really nice and everyone dressed great in the movie.

The music the movie has was ok too because it goes with the type of the movie. I had never seem a movie like this and i think it may relationate with the real life where people does this kind of things. I recomend this film to all the people that want to have some fun and entertain themselves with something good like this movie.