MURDER IN THE FIRST begins just as an escape attempt from the maximum-security federal penitentiary at Alcatraz has failed. Two escapees are dead, a third  (the informant) is returned to his cell, and a fourth, a young man named Henri Young (Kevin Bacon), is placed into a dingy, black hole underneath the ground. He remains there for three years, only visited by Associate Warden Glenn (Gary Oldman) and his vicious beatings and a spider that knows a way out. 
Once he is released, Young is placed back into the prison population. With revenge consuming him, he lashes out at the informant who was responsible for landing him in confinement by running a spoon through the man's throat. Unknowing of the treatment that transformed Young from petty thief to cold-blooded killer, the government tries Young for first degree murder. Enter Christian Slater who stars as James Stamphill, an up and coming public defender who is assigned to defend Henry Young and maybe the only person in Young's life who doesn't want to just give up on the man.
While how much of the story is actually true and how much of the story has been created by Hollywood is in question, there's no doubt that MURDER IN THE FIRST is entertaining. While most of the things about Henry Young are true, I understand that some liabilities have been made with the characters played by Christian Slater and Gary Oldman. That shouldn't matter though. They are not the heart of the story. Henry Young is at the heart of the story and the fact that any of this ever happened to a man is horrific and makes it a story deserving to be told. And even if all of this had never truly happened (I wish it hadn't), and the story was a complete work of fiction by a Hollywood screenwriter it will still be a good movie and an involving look into the human psyche. 
For his performance as Henry Young, Kevin Bacon should have been nominated for an Academy Award. With his haunting eyes and his unhealthy appearing weight loss alone, Bacon makes us care for the character. His performance is flawless. Christian Slater does also does well in one of the finer acting choices of his career (aside from TRUE ROMANCE and INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE). His Slaterism's are often subdued for a more relaxed, more innocent man approach, which works rather well. Gary Oldman, who I would go as far as to say is the most underrated actor in Hollywood, gives another great, over the top performance which to me comes as no surprise. I've never seen Gary Oldman once seem like the same man in anything he's ever been in. That' s got to say something for his talents. 
With great performances and an endearing story, MURDER IN THE FIRST is a first-rate film. And, despite its title, it's not about a murder. It's about life. 
Maybe I'm a simpleton but I liked it.
B+