I can really get sick of people who always are comparing one thing to another. For example, so many people hated "Halloween 5 : The Revenge of Michale Myers" because it wasn't like the original, but that doesn't mean it wasn't good for a regular film! Hence, "Grease 2" was slapped with the lanel of a-bad-movie-sequel-to-a-classic. For me, "Grease" was a pretty horrible film. It had hardly a plot and musical numbers that were pretty run of the mill. Why did it succeed? Because it was a play before a film, so everyone who saw it on broadway went to the film; I quess people didn't realize that plays don't exactly transfer well to films. And then when "Grease 2" came out, everyone saw a film that was at a little bit higher level than the original, but since it was a "sequel", no one went to see it and the reviews bashed it. For me personally, this was a pretty half-way decent film. Sure, the plot was the same as the original but they brought back most of the original supporting cast and didn't try to to have another "Sandy and Danny" but have two new characters who had more feelings than just a replica of two kids a couple years ago. And when most people say that they thought they should have tried having another Sandy/Danny relationship, well then they would have been upset because, apparently, you can NEVER have another Sandy/Danny relationship! OH COME ON! The film wasn't that great! Besides, i feel that these songs are much more memorable than the ones from the original; I would find myself humming along to "Cool Rider" ,"Reproduction", or "Girl for All Seasons" long before I would get "Sandra-Dee" stuck in my head! That's another thing! Everyone says how horrible the songs are in this one but really they are meant to be! They are not meant to be taken seriously! I mean, come on, do you really think the song writer was thinking that "Reproduction" was gonna be a thoughtful musical number? No! And to tell you the truth, when people say the songs were bad, look at "We Go Together" with all the shoo-bobs, sha-wadda-wadda's and such; was that any better than "Lets DO IT for our country"? But, it was to most people because this is a SEQUEL! LABELS, LABELS, LABELS! In conclusion, this film was pretty good but ruined by the horrendous "Grease", so think about how people label things the next time you see a sequel. Think Harder!