This film was well done. I have never seen Hitchcock's version to compare it with, but my intuition tells me that more than two hours will provide more space to cover details from the original novel.

Although I have never read the Daphne Du Maurier's novel with the same name, the development and conclusion of the film left me quite intrigued. If the film and the text are quite the same, I wonder if the writer is more than a sentimental and romantic writer.

For one, I found it quite intriguing that the second Mrs. De Winters never had a name of her own. I Know that the author did that on purpose. What was she trying to communicate to her audience? Was it that the first Mrs. De Winter was always known as Rebecca because she was truly a free woman, and not someone who belonged to this world? After all, she is no different from Lady St. Colomb in Frenchman's Creek.

Was the novel condemning the inferiority of women through the second Mrs. De Winters? Was it a parody on the romance of the poor woman and the rich elegant gentleman? After all, there are so many instances in which Mr. De Winters mistreats his second wife verbally.

And then, there is the conclusion. Mr. De Winters does get away with murderer. He killed his wife only because he wanted to save
Manderley. Is that a justification for the killing? Consider that he killed her believing that she was going to have a child, although it was not his own. Not to mention that the innocent Mrs. De Winters ends up hiding this crime, as hideous as it is.

Because of this, I find the story quite challenging. First, it seems that we should sympathize with Mr. De Winter's crime and Mrs. De Winter's approval of it. But then, after reflecting over the last events, we may be asked to reconsider the romantic elements of the story: the rich gentleman, the poor woman, and the mansion. What's behind all that pomposity and glamour? I think that in this sense, the story reveals a lot of the hollowness of this kind of lifestyle, envied by others without knowing its true workings.

I have seen this film several times, and the more I see it, the more riddled I am as to its layers of meaning.