Jake Gyllenhall did a great job as his performance of a Marine sharp shooter.  However, the best part of this movie was the first five minutes where there was a "Full Metal Jacket" type boot camp scene.  Jamie Fox was pretty good, but a little underused as the Staff Sergeant later on in the movie.  This movie is about the progression of a man through Marine boot camp to sharp shooter school to the Gulf War and then nothing.  The first third of the movie was the progression, then the last 2/3rds was the Gulf War.  I felt this movie was more of a political statement based on the memoir of Anthony Swofford (book by the same name "Jar Head."  I felt as this was a story of a disgruntled employees rather than a people who understood what their presence there was actually for.  I did not read the book and will do so, so  I can get a better feeling of the memoir that this movie is based on.  However, the movie was about Marines going to a war that was not there.  As a result, they get bored, mess around in the sand, wonder why they are there (the oil theme again) and wait for their first kill.  However, I wonder if it came to it, if they got the opportunity that they could do it, get their first kill during war.  Though, the acting was good, the script was crap.  This movie is the equivalent of the landing at Normandy, but the rather than landing at Normandy, the folks landed at the Bahamas-But at least there would be plenty to drink if they landed at the Bahamas.  I don't doubt that the lack of action in this movie memoir took place, and they should feel lucky that they didn't have to go into harms way, however, I believe the lack of action was an isolated incident and during the first Gulf War was fought after all through technology (missiles, airplanes, etc.).  So all that did stay out of harms way while liberating a country from the grasp of human rights criminal Sadam, should feel lucky.  Then of course, the return from the war to lost girl friends and return to their boring "regular" lives and a feeling of  let down..  The movie was a liberal political statement as the left leading Hollywood continues to move that way.  However, it is odd that the director, Sam Mendes also directed Oscar winner "American Beauty" which was about an adult man's fascination with a high school teenager.  So, Hollywood thinks it is OK for sex with a minor (or close to it), but not to protect an invaded ally of this country.  How things change and too bad that Mr. Mendes did not have the magic that he did with "American Beauty" and Tom Hank's "Road to Perdition."  It is an OK rental, but don't waste your money on buying it.