Burke's Robicheaux novels are complex, deeply evocative police thrillers set (with exceptions) in the bayou counties around New Orleans. The lead character tries to balance a deep intelligence, an unflinching commitment to justice, deep religious and family impulses, and a facility with violence which Burke presents as alternatively liberating and damning. The bayou emerges in the novels as subtle, colorful, human, a little threatening, and poised uncomfortably between a past flush with horror and a questionable, ominous future. (The stories which Burke sets in Montana deal with the geography very differently.)

This uncomfortable balance is at the heart of the Robicheaux stories, none more so than the novel on which this movie is based. At first, it's hard to imagine a less likely novel for adaptation as a Hollywood release. Burke's novels are first rate mysteries and detective stories, but they take the conventions of noir storytelling much deeper than most in his genre have done.  Given the inevitable limitation of a two hour movie in capturing the nuances available to a first-person narrator in a 300 page book, this film does an extraordinary job of capturing Robicheaux, the complexities of his character, and the haunting pull of the bayou (and southern) past which forms the background of a story of multiple murders.

Tommie Lee Jones provides an understated and utterly convincing portrait of Robicheaux, perhaps a definitive one, and he's surrounded by an extraordinary cast no less adept at economically presenting characters on both sides of the good and evil divide.

The movie is a remarkable accomplishment. It does not fully capture the book (read the book and you'll see why), but it takes the central metaphor in the book--the 'living' presence of the Confederate dead, with all that they represent--and refocuses the symbol into the presence of John Bell Hood (played beautifully by Levon Helm).  The very last scene in the film takes one further step in this refocusing, one that gilds the lily unnecessarily, but it's a forgivable and brief excess in a project which succeeds as a top-flight noir crime story, an action-adventure tale, a regional portrait, and a case study of how brilliant actors do their jobs. (In addition to Helm, by the way, the film features the great bluesman Buddy Guy.)  The movie is well worth seeing.