This film has a good plot about an alien (inside a frozen animal) found by British scientist Christopher Lee in China. Lee travels from China to England via Russia on a train with his frozen find, and at a train station,  he meets fellow British scientist Peter Cushing and his assistant Ms Jones  also travelling back to England via the same train. While Lee is arguing  with the train ticket official about not having his seat reserved three  weeks in advance, a Chinese thief breaks into the crate containing Lee's  frozen animal but is later found killed, with his eyes all white. A police  inspector, Mirov, investigates this strange death, and together with a  fanatical priest, Pujardov, both are suspicious of Lee's crate although  they do not know what is inside it. Both men travel on the same train. A  Russian countess, Irina, askes the baggage official to keep a silver bar  safe in the train's storage, and her dog is afraid of Lee's crate. Cushing  is curious and bribes the train baggage official to open it to tell him  what is inside.  Whilst the train is travelling, the official removes some  screws from the crate and sees a hand from within the crate opening the  crate's lock using a bent screw (like a thief would do to open a lock). He  tries to stop this but sees the animal's face (which has a red eye) and  dies with his eyes becoming white.  Mirov askes Lee and Cushing where the  baggage official is. Lee says he does not know, and Cushing tells Mirov  that his disappearance may have to do with the crate, which now seems all  wrapped up, like is was when loaded earlier. Lee is annoyed at Cushing and  throws the crate's lock's key instead of giving it to Mirov. Mirov has  Konyack, the train's ticket inspector, break the lock using an axe and they  discover the baggage official dead. Mirov locks up Lee and demands that no  one speak of this.  While two of Mirov's guards are searching for the  monster, one is killed by it, and Mirov askes Cushing for help. Cushing and  Jones perform an autopsy on the baggage official and, together with Mirov,  discover his brain having few wrinkles left (as it the brain had all its  memory drained).  A female spy, Natasha, breaks into the baggage safe to  steal the silver bar but is disturbed and killed by the monster hiding in  the baggage carriage. While Cushing is searching for her (as she is sharing  his room), he finds her dead and is saved from the monster by Mirov killing  it with his gun, although it transfers its intelligence into him. The  monster is found holding the silver bar (like a spy would do). An autopsy  on Natasha shows the same brain symptoms.  Lee is suspicious of Mirov when  Mirov tells Konyack that he saw the silver bar put into the safe - only  Lee, Cushing, Irina, and the baggage official saw the silver being put into  the safe. Lee helps Cushing and Jones to study the monster's red eye (now  looking like a normal eye) and they discover it to contain prehistoric  images and an image of Earth from space. Irina is curious and sees the  images too, with her employee, Purjadov. While the train travels through a  tunnel, the lights go out and Purjadov steals the eye to give it to Mirov,  whom he knows to be the monster. Mirov destroys the eye and kills Jones  when she discovers his true identity. Lee and Cushing are puzzled to find  Jones dead with white eyes as they saw the monster dead.  Mirov kills an  engineer/scientist who may know how to overcome Earth's gravity (as the  monster's intention is to leave Earth and return to its home planet).  Passengers are now afraid but Mirov vows to shoot anyone leaving the train.  Lee asks Konyack to contact soldiers at a remote train station for help,  and tells this to Mirov. Mirov then kills Konyack. At the train station,  Russian soldiers, lead by Telly Savalas as their captain, board the train  and interrogate the passengers as the train departs. Savalas is suspicious  of Mirov when Purjadov protects him, and Lee reduces the lights, revealing  Mirov as the monster with two red eyes. Both he and Purjadov flee from  everyone and Savalas orders everyone to leave as he and his soldiers will  kill both fugitives. Mirov is dying (after being shot by the soldiers while  fleeing) and transfers the alien intelligence in Purjadov, who willing  accepts it. He returns to kills all soldiers, including Savalas, leaving  them with all white eyes. Purjadov then kills Irina's Count husband to  steal silver's formula (from his brain) but is stopped by Lee from killing  Irina. Both Lee and Irina escape the zombie soldiers, Train officials have  been ordered to send the train over a cliff. Lee and Cushing release the  baggage car, with themselves and all living passengers it, from the rest of  the train, before it goes over the cliff, even though Purjadov, as train  driver (having killed the original train driver) tries to stop the train.  Purjadov dies in the flames.