In the late 1960s, a cultural critic made the following prediction regarding the direction of male/female relationships in the age of The Pill. "First consider how easily...  [birth control]... could open wide the way for marital infidelity and a general lowering of moral standards. Not much experience is needed to be fully aware of human weakness and to understand that human beings--and especially the young, who are so exposed to temptation--need incentives to keep the moral law... Another effect that gives cause for alarm is that a man who grows accustomed to the use of contraceptive methods may forget the reverence due to a woman, and, disregarding her physical and emotional equilibrium, reduce her to being a mere instrument for the satisfaction of his own desires, no longer considering her as his partner whom he should surround with care and affection."

Alfie does nothing but reduce women to mere instruments for the satisfaction of his own desires. His lack of consideration for his partners' well-being could be breathtakingly cruel. Alfie seduces the wife of a hospitalized man, a man who lives for his wife's occasional visits. Alfie leaves the same woman alone, and in extreme physical and emotional pain, after she undergoes the illegal abortion of his own child. This extreme callousness was not caused by the The Pill, but was made possible by The Pill, a chemical which was approved as an oral contraceptive in Britain in 1962, four years prior to the making of this movie. This correlation is not coincidental. While evil and selfishness pre-date the Sixties' sexual revolution, widespread, and culturally-accepted promiscuity, did not.

It is possible to argue that Alfie didn't use The Pill, since two of his conquests became pregnant. But this is improbable, since Alfie was nothing if not self-centered, and he certainly did not want to bear the responsibilities of fatherhood (as evidenced by the abortion). It is far more likely that these pregnancies were "accidents."

But what explains Alfie's inhumanity and cruelty? Aside from The Fall, one can view Alfie as the product of a post-Christian society, a society in the early stages of moral decay. While both men and women here have justly judged Alfie to be a vile misogynist (and misanthropist -he doesn't hesitate to steal the girlfriend of a friend), how many people here can honestly say that they are equally appalled by the promiscuity and vacuity of the women portrayed in "Sex in the City"? Is there any difference? Certainly not in the behavior of the main characters. To quote a Doobie Brother's album title, "What Were Once Vices Are Now Habits." The only, and enormously important difference between the two dramas, is that "Alfie" presents the other side of the "Sex in the City" story --a very dark side-- but a very real side, and, sadly, the dominant side. It is this adherence to truth that sets "Alfie" apart from most sex farces, and it is what makes "Alfie" the canary in the coal mine regarding the on-rushing sexual revolution.

If you haven't guessed already, the "cultural critic" noted above, was Pope Paul VI, cited from the almost universally reviled encyclical, "Humanae Vitae (On Human Life)." Perhaps we should have listened.