As a young teenager, I watched Allen Ginsberg read his poetry to small crowds in Washington Square. I saw him run about the neighborhood when I lived in New York City's East Village. He was friendly and generous and loveable. During those years, we'd see the elderly William Burroughs lounge around the Mudd Club. I stayed at Hartley Hall at Columbia University, so I have a personal affection for the Beats. Among my prized possessions are letters of rejection from Sterling Lord, Jack Kerouac's literary agent, and Lawrence Ferlinghetti.

I've read all of Bill Morgan's books and especially love I Celebrate Myself: The Somewhat Private Life of Allen Ginsberg. Not only is that an exceptional bio, it's hilarious, gigantic, and entertaining throughout. (Why does a great book like this only garner nine customer reviews?)

This is a film for Ginsberg devotees, for people who love the Beats. I'm not sure I cared for the animation, but I liked the attempt at explaining the poetry. There are many documentaries featuring Ginsberg, so maybe the casual viewer should watch one of those as an introduction before seeing this flick.

My favorite line in Howl is when Ginsberg is asked about the Beats, and he replies we're just a bunch of guys trying to get published. Yes, he speaks the truth.

The influence of Allen Ginsberg led this reader to William Carlos Williams and William Blake and Walt Whitman. I admire Ginsberg's authenticity and courage, especially regarding his mother's plight, and I love his love of his father and his friends and his fans. I'm not sure that I loved this movie, but I'm willing to see it again. I wonder how Allen would like it?

In case you've missed it, one of the funniest television moments of all time must be the encounter between Allen and William F. Buckley. Ginsberg was as much an amusing personality as poet.

If you have an interest in any of the above, you might want to check out a new book CBGB Was My High School, as it contains many references to the Beats and might encourage young readers to explore them.