Two Brothers was a movie that really surprised me.  I went into the movie with, among others, a 13 year old who thought the movie was going to be "retarded."  Instead, the audience was treated to a definite surprise.  People, many of whom were adults, were cheering at climatic points in the movie.  There was even a rousing round of applause at the film's conclusion, in one of those moments in which you are clapping more to express your own pleasure than to acknowledge anyone.  Two Brothers is set in, I'm guessing, early to mid-20th century Thailand.  It is the story of two tigers who suffer heartbreak, trials and eventual separation at the hands of humans.  The movie is truimphant and complete.  This is definitely not a kid's movie but a real story with real emotions that carries a strong message.  It manages to further hone the family film staples of parent-child relationships by adding subtle, ingenious touches, such as those employed to distinguish tiger from tiger.  Various camera techniques, like zooms and blurs, are used to convey the sizable emotion of the tigers.  The closing "reunion scene" might just be the best ever for a family film.  Humans aren't left out, however.  We get strong performances from a varied cast, including the only name I can remember, Guy Pearce.  The human relationships are given weight and complexity, though the film manages to do so without letting us forget that this movie is truly about the tigers themselves.  The film is even complete with some of the most realistic and balanced images of Asian/White relationships I've ever seen.  For example, the white man and asian woman fall in love because they understand each other and share the some love for nature, not because he's James Bond and she's amazed by his blue eyes.  There's even, gasp, an asian man with a caucasian woman.  This relationship is both realistic and hilarious, with the man being His Excellency of Thailand and the French woman being the kind of flighty and materialistic person someone in his position would have been with, regardless of race.  But, even though the film even includes a very subtle lesson of what race is and what it is not, the bigger mission of building awareness about endangerment of tigers in the wild is accomplished forcefully and fully.  I left the theatre with a 10 year old who was outraged by the way humanity generally cares so little for the Earth that gives us so much.  I'm willing to wager that I wasn't the only one who left the theatre with an outraged young mind.