The original Gone in 60 Seconds is not many things.  It's not a technical masterpiece.  It's not a showcase of great acting.  It's not a big budget major studio production.  Most importantly, it's not the 2000 Gone in 60 Seconds remake.  It IS a good movie.  It is the greatest car crash movie ever made.  And it is a true independent film.  H.B. Halicki wrote it, produced it, directed it, financed it, and supplied the cars.

Gone in 60 Seconds breaks down into two parts.  The impressively named Madrian Pace and his crew are introduced as insurance investigators who moonlight as car thieves (I always knew those guys couldn't be trusted).  Where the remake gives us an elaborate (and silly) justification for why our protagonists are stealing a very large number of cars in a very short period of time, the original version just shows us a man in a seaplane handing Pace a large suitcase presumably filled with a very large amount of cold, hard cash.  Pace and crew then rapidly proceed to steal the cars.  They only run into real trouble when they try to steal Eleanor (the second time!).  Eleanor is a 1973 Ford Mustang Mach 1.  They switched her to a 1967 Shelby gt500 in the remake.  It may be a much more valuable car, but the Mach 1s will always have a special place in my heart.

The second half of the movie is a car chase.  One car chase.  And it's the greatest car chase ever filmed, culminating in the greatest car jump ever filmed (no CGI needed).

DVD extras: interviews with friends of Halicki (Lee Iacocco, Parnelli Jones, J.C. Agajanian Jr, and Bobby Ore), a photo gallery, international posters, footage from in the cars, two deleted scenes, three trailers (a re-mastered trailer, the original theatrical trailer, and the trailer from Halicki's second movie).  The movie also starts with a introduction by Halicki's late wife.

Edition note.  I've never seen the theatrical version, but it is my understanding this edition (released in 2000) was redubbed.  This results in conversations that look like they came out of a bad Kung Fu flick and a porn-inspired soundtrack.  It obviously detracts in a sense, but it doesn't touch the true heart of the movie--the car chases (and crashes)--and it is rather hilarious in effect.