Synopsis

Excel, a bubbly airhead of a blonde (gee, we haven't seen this stereotype before) has just graduated from high school. She dances and skips her way into the real world, where the first thing she meets is the grille of a two-ton semi.

Needless to say, Excel is one dead blonde. However, the powers that be decide to resurrect her, because it's not yet her time to die: the TV series has barely started! (Yes, that's exactly the rationale.) So she becomes the mildly annoying and totally ineffective tool of the nefarious (okay, kinda nefarious) Lord Il Palazzo, who aims to subjugate the planet Earth to his ambitions. Her first task: to punish those advocates of anarchy and evil intent, the dreaded manga creators: specifically, the manga creator of Excel Saga. Means: execution by sword. And so begin the numerous (lame brained) plots to take over world by way of sheer insanity.

Review: Quack Experimental Anime Excel Saga (yes, that's the full name!) is solid, irrefutable proof that Japanese manga and anime creators are on drugs. Excel is not bright. In fact, she's so brainless that Il Palazzo is compelled to use various firearms on her just to shut her up. ("Hail Il Palazzo-" BANG!) It's a wonder she survived through elementary school, much less graduation, as she obviously hasn't the sense to look both ways before crossing the street. (She gets nailed more than once by large vehicles.) And yet, she isn't as annoying to the audience as you'd expect, because she seems to do everything with much the same sort of dumb faith as Mihoshi from Tenchi Muyo, or, say, Detective Clouseau from The Pink Panther. Of course, it doesn't matter that she never really succeeds in what she aims to do, because, well, half the fun of Excel Saga is to watch the utterly surreal carnage she unwittingly inflicts on her environment. She's a walking natural disaster, and that makes her fun to be around, so long as she stays behind the screen.

The final episode gets special mention for being considerably raunchier and more offensive than the bulk of the series. Excel Saga is a total laugh riot, and even though the end of almost every episode insists that "the experiment has failed", it's a solid watch for those with a taste for black comedy with a pinch of satire. It's insane in every sense of the word, from the opening song (where the main characters sing in various locales, from Ginza, to the inside of a public men's bathhouse, while one of them continually coughs up blood) to the ending song (a dog singing an enka ballad about how Excel wants to eat it while various condiments rain down at random intervals, complete with Japanese-language interpreter). This show is certainly not for everyone (after all, it is pretty sick humor), but if you're game for a show so out-there, you can't help but stare in disbelief, Excel Saga is for you.

If you do not like black comedy, I would question everyone's overall review.