I recently had the opportunity to review two of Master Books newest science DVDs - Awesome Science: Explore the Grand Canyon with Noah Justice and Explore Yellowstone with Noah Justice.

The star and commentator of each DVD is a boy named Noah Justice. The viewers travel to the various science wonders with Noah and listen as he commentates and explains why these areas are indeed wonders of science and provides scientific support for the Biblical viewpoint of each wonder.

In the Grand Canyon DVD, Noah discusses how the canyon was carved out in just days rather than millions of years as evolutionary scientists claim. He provides scientific evidence for how the layers upon layers of rock and sediment had been laid down in less than a year. All of the information provided supports the Bible's Genesis account as a literal seven-day creation process and also supports the Bible's account of a world-wide flood.

In the Yellowstone DVD, viewers travel with Noah to Wyoming to explore the national wonder of America's first national park. In this episode, Noah provides information that explains how the Geologic Column supports the world-wide flood. He talks about super-volcanoes and their part in shaping the world in post-flood days and also gives scientific support for how Yellowstone's petrified forests were formed in just a few years rather than millions of years.

I love that these videos are definitely a young-earth perspective and present a Biblical worldview. And the evidence that is presented actually makes sense and is impressive. I found the videos to be very interesting, very educational.

My six-year old did find the videos a little boring and it was a bit beyond her age, but my eight-year-old enjoyed them and learned from them.

Each video is 3o minutes long, and the videos come with a small study guide booklet. The study guide booklets contain fill-in-the-blank questions, discussion questions, and some "digging deeper" questions.

In addition to the two DVD titles I reviewed, there are currently four others in the series including: Explore Meteor Crater and Petrified Forest, Explore Yosemite and Zion National Parks, Explore Mt. St. Helens, and Explore John Day Fossil Beds.

This was a nice way to change up our science studies a bit. A nice change from our normal approach to our science studies.

* I received a complimentary copy of each of the above DVDs from New Leaf Publishers in exchange for my honest opinion.*