Mel Gibson's Passion of the Christ continues to draw record crowds and everyone who has seen it rates it very highly, but One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest may be a more accurate in some ways retelling of the Christ Story.  Most people will never know that this is the Christ story set in contemporary times.  No robes and beards and crosses here, no stereotypical sneering Satan, but instead a story about good and evil, as one of the characters says near the very beginning, "Its not about my wife.  Its about my life.  Its about good and evil, its about God and the devil!" and so it is.  Here Satan appears not in red or black, but in white, a nurse!  She has no snarl, but instead speaks softly as she administers medications and follows the rules.  She is an agent of mercy!  And on the other hand was the unshaven McMurphy, the petty crook, the foul mouthed womanizer who enjoyed gambling, smoking, drinking, all the antithesis of the the religious ideal, but then Jeusus too was always unpopular with the religous types.  They called him a glutton and a drunkard and noted that he hung out with prostitutes.  But McMrphy has a good heart!  He is decidely Christ like in his attitudes towards his fellow inmates.  He treats the apparently autistic native American "chief" as if he is just one of the boys.  He takes his fellow inmates on a fishing junket and introduces them as "doctors".  He has a joyful world view that bends the rules for the sake of humanity.  Not so the nurse!  She follows the rules to the letter!  Their conflict is the whole point of Christianity,  the law versus the Gospel. Here is a film where you can really hate the Satanic and love the Christ like, and the differences between the two are presented in stark contrast.  You can't just observe this film.  You are rooting for McMurphy!
  In Gibson's Passion of the Christ one observes the outrageous abuses suffered by Jesus and feel horror, but when you observe the satanic figure in that film you are not consumed by hate for it.  You are not hoping that Christ will strangle Satan right then and there as you do hope will happen in Cuckoo's Nest, where McMurphy attempts to strangle the God forsaken  nurse.  At the end of the film, the inmates are convinced that the absent McMurphy is "up there",  cofounding the authorities.  Now they have faith in McMurphy.  The "Chief"  acts on his faith,  throws the plumbing through the wall, and escapes as water gushes everywhere.  Christians will remember that the waters of Baptism  free one from the shackles of tyrany.