Strangely enough, watching this movie on the bigscreen for the first time (& even again on dvd) gave me a very similar feeling I got watching another film of an 'English Bent' on the bigscreen - The most recent adaption of 'Pride & Prejudice'.

Both stories are most wonderful excellent books, and both would most likely also make for excellent 'extended series' or 'extended directors cut' editions...  But neither somehow seems QUITE exactly suited for a slim, tightly edited 2-hour movie.

  Fortunately for those that may like 'Pride & Prejudice' - there IS a most wonderful BBC mini-series, which is virtually perfectly cast (least to my mind - and certainly FAR better than the film version in that respect), and tells the story far more in full detail & pace.. filling all the missing or far-shortened plot-points, and adding a great deal of depth, character and 'heart' to all the characters that I found oft missing from the much-condensed bigscreen film version.

If not for having seen that BBC edition of 'Pride & Prejudice' beforehand, or having twice previously read the 'Goblet of Fire' book before having seen THIS film...  I probably would just BARELY know what the 'heck' was going on from either of these stories from just trying to 'piece it together' from the respective film versions...

Unfortunately, Potter 4 Does not (as far as I know) have an extended or 'directors cut' available (other than simply reading the book of course) - so this is all we're likely to expect from this movie.  And even though it does it's best to 'hit' most of the  major plot-points, has a talented likable cast (I like them anyways - though I DO still sorely miss Richard Harris), and has some great special effects throughout...  It's brisk pace, and leaving out of a great deal of the books secondary plot points and details just left me feeling kinda 'cold' as I left the theater.  I felt a great deal of the 'heart and soul' of the book (one of my favorites from the series) and it's characters was sorely missing from the film version. It even came across as a bit 'patchy' to me... which the third film, though also missing a fair bit from the book, never really did - It held together and flowed in its own way..  (which made me enjoy it APART from the book - as it's own seperate work.)

One other thing that annoys me here that I'd like to mention, (which was also a factor in the third film) was the much condensed - if not outright MISSING 'ending explanation/talk' of events in the books between Dumbledore & Harry (Harry & Lupin in the 3rd film)  Dumbledore's simple few words of "Well you know Harry, your parents can't be brought back to life" line in answer to why they appeared towards the end of Harry's battle with Voldemort was very dopey and frustrating to me.  Considering this wasn't even the longest film in the series so far (though it easily SHOULD have been) I can't imagine why they couldn't just tack on ONE or two more minutes and have the FULL explanation involved. (Which would have also maybe helped the rather so-far missing 'chemistry' between Harry and (Michael Gambon's) Dumbledore...)

Even more perplexing was the third film's (being the shortest)  leaving out the explanation and history behind the 'Marauder's Map'... and the role of Harry's father in it, & why Harry's patronus took the form of a stag.  (It would have only taken an extra minute or two... but again it's simply left off....  Strange.