X-Men Mega-Review  BY: JAMES GOULD
 While there are many who are quick to point out all the things that director Bryan Singer could have done better, there aren't many people discussing all the things that he did right, or tried to anyway.  The movie's success (54.7 million in its first week) is based on the fact of word of mouth.  If people who saw the movie the Friday it opened, saw it and didn't like it, they wouldn't tell other people about it, or if someone brought the subject up, they would simply say don't see it, it was really bad.  X-Men, however, was a good movie, not only working in comic book heroes to life, but also working in a plot, theme, and the difficult and risky process of working major character backgrounds into the story-line.
 Some may say that the success of the movie was only due to the idea of a comic book being brought to life.  This wasn't the case for X-Men, because it involved so much more than just comic book heroes fighting.  The plot to X-Men dealt with many of the original X-Men from the comic book - Cyclops, Storm, Jean-Grey, Rouge, Magneto, Professor X, Mystique, Toad, and Sabretooth.  With this many main characters, it is completely impossible to work in histories of each character for 90 minutes of film.  For those who are avid fans of X-Men a history isn't needed, but Singer needed to address regular average movie-goers with no knowledge of X-Men.  It was a good touch at the beginning to introduce Magneto being separated from his parents in Poland in 1944, and then it went to Rouge kissing a boy - only to send him into a coma.  These two histories were introduced well, along with Wolverine and Professor X's history.  Storm, Cyclops, Jean-Grey, Mystique, and Toad were the only ones that people didn't really know about, but their  histories will probably be discussed in sequels to the movie.
 Also dealing with the history of the X-Men was the brand new plot that Singer had to make up, because those who were fans of X-Men before wouldn't have wanted to see the same type of story all over again.  He did a good job with developing Magneto's hatred of humans into a take over plot.  The X-Men obviously try to stop Magneto and then that's where the fight scenes occur which were pretty well done for only a $70 million dollar budget.  Factor in major actors who need major money for their acting, special effects, expensive set designs, costumes, it all adds up leaving very little money to spend on one thing.  So overall the fight scenes weren't as spectacular as I would have liked, but Singer did a good job.  There were about 3 fight scenes in the movie, not as much as I hoped for, but the action was intense enough to keep me at the edge of my seat.  There is the classic one liner that is said by Storm that everyone will remember from this movie.  It is said when Storm explodes the doors of an elevator off with bolts of lightning (Toad had trapped her down there).  She says, "You know what happens when a toad gets struck by lightning...the same thing that happens to everything else."  That's when her eyes go white and lightning comes down on Toad and shocks him off of the Statue of Liberty.  Very cool special effects in that scene.
 Also lying in the movie was the theme of acceptance that was very wisely put in the movie.  The idea of mutants is that they are outcasts to society that are persecuted by "normal" humans, because they are the minority.  Tolerance is what people today are trying to accomplish and X-Men personified this action perfectly by showing how mutants are "hated" members of society.  It was a nice touch that I am glad that Singer included, showing that the movie had heart along with the fighting.
 Overall, Singer did an excellent job, and I think that he deserves credit because of all the things that he did do right, instead of scrutinizing him for things that he could have done better.  Face it, to any stuffy, snobby, "genius" movie critic, no movie is perfect, but even they say that the movie did do a great job of bringing the comic book to life.  What is most important is that the fans of X-Men and non-fans alike enjoyed the movie thoroughly.  I rate this movie a 4 ½ stars out of 5.  You should definitely buy the movie and the DVD because of the chance to take the magic home, and enjoy 10 extra minutes of footage that wasn't included in the movie that was released in movie theaters.