After growing up in the 1950s, I think I became satiated with Westerns, and today it's a rare Western that can hold my attention.  This is one that can.  It is a true classic like only a few other Westerns.  "Rio Bravo" and "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance" come to mind as comparable in quality.  Errol Flynn is superb here, and in fact seeing this film on TCM was one of the reasons I began taking a more serious look at Flynn as a leading man...and he is usually quite wonderful.  Olivia DeHavilland is at her loveliest here, and her role is not too sweet and has just a little grit.  Ann Sheridan is rather wasted here, though she sure was "purdy".  Bruce Cabot plays the primary bad guy with just the right balance, while his supporting crew of bad guys (including Victor Jory) are resident evil!  Alan Hale is perfect as Flynn's sidekick...the best there can be (except of course for Gabby Hayes riding along side of Roy!).  And, there are a host of other recognizable character actors here that have substantial roles you'll enjoy.  Of course, I always tire of Bobs Watson (childhood actor) that seems to always spend most of his on-camera time blubbering...I didn't mind a bit that in this film he was dragged to death by a team of horses (oops...did I say that???).

In addition to the actors, there's some really memorable scenes here.  Perhaps the best barroom brawl you'll ever see...the race between the train and the stage coach...and the climax of the film is the run-away train which also just happens to be on fire! Cliches?  Surely.  But as another reviewer pointed out, perhaps it was this film that made such scenes cliches in other Western films.

But there's also something negative to report here.  This is, perhaps, the worst transfer to DVD I have ever seen by a major studio (Warner Brothers).  The music by Max Steiner is wonderful (and by the way, done the same year as his score of "Gone With The Wind"), but during scene transitions it's so loud you'll be hunting for your remote to turn the volume down, only to need to turn it back up with the dialogue resumes.  The Technicolor is wonderful, but quite a few scenes are horribly blurry and distorted, while most of the film is clean and crisp.  In some places the alternating clarity or blurriness was so repetitive, it almost felt like I was watching a documentary about the restoration of a film and seeing before and after shots.  Don't get me wrong, you'll still enjoy this film, but the usual Warner Brothers standard was not met here.  Even the DVD case was about the cheapest plastic construction I've seen.

This film was the kind of movie that made Westerns the main-stay of movie-going for so many years, and I think it is all the better because the stars were not actors who were usually associated with the Western genre.  Buy this film and luxuriate in the glory days of Western movies.