I just watched this movie for the first time and I'm very impressed. The script is astounding, the actors brilliant, the subject matter is as relevant today as yesterday. I'm gonna watch it again today or tomorrow. Faye Dunaway is so incredibly well cast for the role, she really looks like she is as insensitive as her character is, all the while showing that her sensibility is not far behind, her emotions show but she can not get herself to put them in front and act upon them. She also is amazing when her character is inspired by creative genius at her job. Finch (Beale) is obviously remarkable, not a hint of insincerity can be  heard in his masterful scenes. Holden is kinda different, he has the lead role, he's on the front for the most time and obviously strives to bring depth to his character, which is not an easy task. And his play is far from perfect, yet he manages to make a sympathetic guy out of his character, quite believable especially in his love-relationships scenes.

What to say? The movie is overall very impressive, sometimes astounding. The script is, IMHO, what holds it all together. I'm very much interested in watching other movies written by Paddy Chayefsky. Some reviewers have called his writing wordy, even unbearably so, but I completely disagree. It seems that what these viewers couldnt stand is precisely what I loved. No, it never sounded like the scriptwriter was using his characters as tools to speak his own mind. There are quite a bunch of incredible scenes, Beale's acts, the CEO's monologue, some Diane (Faye Dunaway) scenes as well. Hell where can you find a movie that has quite a few incredible scenes like these, and still brings them all together inside a story that is riveting and as relevant today as it was 30 years ago? That sums it up for me.

Then I should mention the insights of Mr Chayefsky. He is saying things that still are not understood today by the majority. His movie is still prophetic today, in 2006. Especially the monologue about the corporatization of the planet.

I've had the feeling while watching this movie, that the scriptwriter had the rare quality, found in shakespeare, of appealing to every type of audiences at once : action, emotions, ideas, and ideals are all adressed efficiently and blended into a lively whole. It's a rare treat and I'm gonna hunt for this Chayefsky's work.