Since I am a fan of science fantasy as well as science fact this movie proved to be a great one for me. Jodie Foster is wonderful as the doctor who using SETI finds a signal from a distant galaxy. She finds herself ultimately building a machine that transports her to the source of the signal. On the planet she meets an alien who assumes the physical shape of her late father.

She realizes that of course it isn't her father, but has so many questions she wants answered, that she goes along with the created scene. Her time is limited and soon she is sent back to Earth only to find that in Earth time she has been gone mere seconds, not hours or days. A controversy erupts decrying her claim that she actually WAS where she said she was. For those who haven't seen the movie I won't spoil the ending.

What isn't mentioned anywhere in the film is that Carl Sagan and his wife were responsible for it's creation but he passed on before it was completed. During the film there are instances of a reverse letter "C" being formed by popcorn spilled on the floor, when Jodie's father dies. Then again in the grains of sand the alien holds when they meet. Again in the sky above the alien planet and at the end when Jodie sits on a cliff overlooking the canyon and sunset. What does it mean?

The reversed "C" shape in the movie is a representation of the constellation "Corona Borealis" it was Carl Sagan's favorite because it looks like a radio telescope dish! The end credit's say "For Carl" and indeed Carl has a presence throughout the film with the these references to his constellation.

Coupled with a wonderful score by Alan Silvestri this movie is a home run in my book.

On a purely technical note, in the film Dr.Arroway (Foster) as a child is an amateur radio operator as I am. It shows her using the radio and calling "CQ" a general call for anyone to answer. But then she keeps saying "come back".... this is slang used only by CB radio operators and is rarely if ever used by amateurs with any experience.