Robin Hood has been filmed many times and this is a very ambitious attempt to give the story new dimensions, coupled with wonderful sceneries and lots of eye candy for everyone. Handsome men, beautiful Marian (Mastrantonio), huge, impressive castles, deep woods, fighting, loving, humour... And poor Kevin Costner, who is very cute and sympathetic - but uncomfortable with his part. 
The story is familiar to us all, in this film it has an interesting addition with Robin as a prisoner during the crusades and his return to England with Azeem, the Great one, who must save his life to pay a debt. Although he likes to choose his moment... Morgan Freeman is very impressive as Azeem and gets some of the best lines, like when talking about mistletoe: "In my country we don't drug women with plants. We talk to them." The manuscript has in fact many good lines - but Costner seems to drop all the opportunities of making himself memorable, when the sidekicks are having the time of their lives. Even fat friar Tuck seems to have more presence than the star of the movie. 
This really isn't a bad movie, that's why I've given it four stars, although the third star goes to Freeman and the fourth to Rickman (the Sheriff on Nottingham). It's entertaining and has comedy and suspense and it's a feast for the eyes, but still it is a bit of a disappointment. Anyone who's done any acting or plans to act some day: this is how you let others steal the scenes even though they don't mean to. The film has two opposite examples of the use of energy and presence. Costner slouches through the film with so little energy that he actually lets everyone else shine at his own expense. Only with Mastrantonio or with the bow and arrow there is some charisma. On the other end there's Rickman's sheriff, bursting with energy right down to his fingers, every movement and raising of the eyebrows full of meaning. It's no wonder much of his work was cut off. Even in this version, he completely throws off the balance of the movie so that the audience waits for the sheriff's scenes, not Robin's. And which are the lines everyone remembers after the movie? "And call of Christmas!" "I'll cut your heart out with a spoon!" All sheriff's work, of course. Somewhere it was said, that Rickman has a conspiracy with the audience, as if saying: "Let's have fun with this, so we can move on to doing something worth while after that." I thought it was very well put - and he certainly has a lot of fun. If you miss seeing more of him, get the new DVD, it's supposed to have some of scenes that were cut out, when the producers saw, what was happening to Costner - getting seriously shadowed by the villain.
Mastrantonio is a very beautiful Marian and works well with Costner, but doesn't seem to know, whether to fear or hate or loath the sheriff, so she does neither very convincingly. Although it must be difficult with sheriff's purring voice in one's ear... 
It is a real pity, that much of good work done by other actors in smaller parts suffers from Costner's lack of interest in the movie, as it seems. But if you don't mind it, there's a lot of entertaining things to see and good performances - and several good lines, which make you think the writers had fun.